https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30687916-silence-fallen
I always like Patricia Briggs' books. They are consistently original and well written.
I've been dying to read more books with him in them for a while now, but with all the fae craziness it has been a long time since he and the other vampires have featured in a book.*squeals*STEFAN!I just love the way Briggs does vampires.For the most part, they're pretty awful creatures with very few redeemable qualities.
What was Adam and the rest of the gang up to while Mercy was doing all this?!Well, they were having a sleepover with the scariest vampire in Europe, beating the hell out of backstabbers with expensive china plates, and trying to rescue a Coyote - all while trying to avoid an all-out war for dominance within the supernatural community.It was FANTASTIC!Ooh!
Oh Mercy! Someone is always causing trouble for you to fix, but this time they steal you away! My favorite shifter coyote! ❤We have vampires, werewolves, ghosts, witchcraft, a golem and this that and the other! Oh and this time there was another narrator joining Lorelei King. His name is George Newbern. I was skeptical at first but he did a good job and they both narrated great together. This book was fun! Well, not the bad stuff but it was a bit different then any of the other books in the seri
Oh Mercy!
Someone is always causing trouble for you to fix, but this time they steal you away!
❤️We have vampires, werewolves, ghosts, witchcraft, a golem and this that and the other!
Oh and this time there was another narrator joining Lorelei King.
I was skeptical at first but he did a good job and they both narrated great together.
This book was fun!
And Mercy put in a cage!
Either way, I had fun going back into the world of Mercy and her hot werewolves.
Just sayin' 😊Happy Reading!
Mel ❤️MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListAmazon Review
A bit of a slow start, but finished with a BANG. That twist, OHMAGAWD, that twiiiiiiist! Full RTC.
Final review, first posted on Fantasy Literature: It’s pirating night in the werewolf house, and Mercy, a coyote skinwalker married to Adam, the handsome Alpha of the Columbia Basin werewolf pack, quickly gets killed out of the werewolf pack’s computer-based pirate LARP game.
In a very real sense, Mercy is more dangerous than she or her captors think.A major change of scenery and particularly intricate plotting are distinguishing points in Silence Fallen (2017), the tenth book in Patricia Briggs’ MERCY THOMPSON urban fantasy series.
March 2017So it's finally out.
Yet I find my self very reluctant to read it.
Because I know I'll probably have to wait another 3 years for the next one and it's just torture.
I'm seriously thinking of saving it for emergencies.
Bad book streak emergencies...
1/11/2016Available on Request on Netgalley now.
I doubt I'll get approved as I am a mere humble reader but good luck to all of you.
And know if you do get it you're going on my Mortal Enemy list.
Expected publication: March 7th 2017 April 17, 2015There better not be another two year wait to get our hands on this!!
4.25 stars!  Silence Fallen is book ten in the Mercy Thompson series. Yes, I said book TEN. I’ve been reading these books for well over a decade and I still get that crazy excited feeling when I know a new Mercy and Adam book is coming out! If there is one thing about Mercy you should know, it’s that trouble always seems to find her. She can’t help it. Thankfully, she’s tough, resourceful, and has an amazing mate. This book starts out with Mercy being kidnapped by one of the most powerful vampir
Silence Fallen is book ten in the Mercy Thompson series.
I’ve been reading these books for well over a decade and I still get that crazy excited feeling when I know a new Mercy and Adam book is coming out!
If there is one thing about Mercy you should know, it’s that trouble always seems to find her.
This book, like all the others left me wondering how Mercy was going to come out completely unscathed.
I just hope the next one comes out sooner rather than later, I know sometimes the wait is 2-3 years.
She escapes her captors and ends up in the gothic city of Prague, where she has no clue if the people and supernatural creatures she comes across are friend or foe.
I was done, really done with being a victim.”  I love this series, it never ever fails to deliver a thrilling story and a smile to my face.
I studied abroad for a year in the city of Prague, and the majority of this book was based there!
I just missed them.This is a series you need to be reading, and if you already are, read this book immediately!
The Mercy Thompson series is the sort of guaranteed good read that leaves me no doubt I’m going to love every moment.
Briggs utilized the character’s personal knowledge of the place a little too often to be believable.
If you haven’t given this series a try, you’re totally missing out!I’d like to thank Berkley Publishing Group, Patricia Briggs, and NetGalley for the chance to read and review an early copy of Silence Fallen.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.nikihawkes.com
Mercy and Adam, win the Best Couple award.
He listens to her, he trusts her, unwaveringly, she is the same way back at him.
I was seriously worried about her mental health, she was completely immersed in Hades.
I'm seriously tempted to go get a Coyote tattoo.
Mercy is the woman I'd love to be.Adam, what they put him through was horrendous.
Every woman deserves and Adam in her life.
He makes that very clear in this book, when his trust in his mate allows him to stay in that role.
He cuts into his own heart to do as she would want done.
Per Ann Sowards interview, in  Silence Fallen :1) we will have a lot more chapters written from Adam's perspective.2)We will get to know more about Elizaveta.3) and there is Larry, the Goblin King!
There is a blurb!So, this is somebody wanting to hurt Adam and Marsillia.
:shifty eyes:Also, yay for Mercy going to Prague!
Very excited about the cover...As Patty herself confirmed, Silence Fallen will take Mercy to Europe.
Reviewed by: Rabid Reads.SILENCE FALLEN takes us back to a time when Mercy was a one-woman show.
I loved this book because even though I always look forward to reconnecting with the Tri-Cities cast, it was Patricia Briggs' strong heroine that first drew me to this series, and continues to call to me with each new installment.
I also loved how forces like Charles and Wulfe attested to the fact that Thompson is the most dangerous person in the Tri-Cities.
Fans already know this however, it took Lenka’s run-in with a bus, and eluding the Lord of the Night to sway Iacopo.SILENCE FALLEN was motherhumping rad!
2 I think I've read this wrong starsI don't even want to do a review for this book, that's how disappointing it was to me.
everything will be repeated and explained at lenght at least 3 times, like this is not the 10th fucking book, but the 1st one and you are a goldfish who can't remember another character musing about the same shit 30 pages ago.And the villian.
Utter disappointment.
Such a shame to turn a villian with grea potential into a tosser who plays wittle games.This is the emptiest Briggs book I've ever read.
What a badass!2: I love how Patricia Briggs writes about vampires in her books!!
I always love any book that let’s Mercy (view spoiler)[use her magical shapeshifter powers to talk to ghosts!
(hide spoiler)]Okay, what I didn’t like about this book:1.
I mean (view spoiler)[who's betraying who, how's this character involved again, why was Mercy taken?!
But regardless, I felt she could do more with a powerful character like this besides giving him (view spoiler)[an addiction to female werewolf blood and still mooning over Marsilla.
(view spoiler)[There was not enough of my favorite vampire Stefan in this book!
*sobs* I want more Adam and Mercy!Original review:Silence Fallen kicks off with a bang as Mercy is abducted and taken to Europe by vampires.
What do they want and how will she get away?
As usual Mercy survives by her wits, thinking things through quickly and using hard won experience to her advantage.
It was interesting to see Marsilia in a little different light, and not as awful as she usually is.
Silence Fallen is another amazing installment in the Mercy Thompson series!
All around it was a riveting read, one of the best in the Mercy Thompson series!
But in the end, I decided it wasn't a big enough deal to deduct anything, and the book had been a blast.Thanks to Briggs for writing another fantastic entry.
Next year's Charles and Anna has got a seriously high bar to reach after the last few Mercy books, though with the fantastic installment that was Dead Heat, I'm not worried or concerned in the least in Briggs' ability to soar past that bar.
:)---Finished this in the wee hours of the morning, and will write a review soon.
March 2018 Reread. Buddy read with Sarah and Erica.I admit, I was a little worried when I saw that Mercy's bond to Adam, and the Pack, was going to be broken. Again. The blurb makes it sound much more familiar than the reality of the circumstances are. I was thankful for that, because I might have been a bit frustrated had I been compelled to deal with the broken bond again. Honestly, for me, Mercy and Adam are so tightly wound that I  know  there is nothing that can break them apart. And that's
And that's just the way I like it.Fair warning: Mercy and Adam spend the majority of this book apart and out of contact.
I know that some people think that dragging out the relationship drama is the way to keep things tense and the story fresh, but I get so tired of that.
Maybe that's not as kick-ass as some other characters (whom I love as much), but you can't deny that Mercy gets things done.
Though I've never been, I can say that the book set the feel for Prague, and Europe in general, making me feel and imagine that I could be there with Mercy.
She is kidnapped and traveling around with only minor check-ins here and there.Flat Stanley was ready for a break and happy that Mercy decided to take his place for a while.Adam has alternating POV's with Mercy and he has set-up a super-team to go and retrieve her.
I heart him!); two goblins - the goblin king and the pilot; and three werewolves - Adam, Honey, and the co-pilot named Matt Smith, but he's not a doctor.
This book had tons of action, lots of Mercy doing awesome things, plenty of bloodshed, and some very up close and personal with Adam.
(view spoiler)[Do you think Adam knew who Matt Smith was?
I'll admit I was a bit disappointed when I found out that Mercy and Adam would be separated for much of the story but when I realised that we'd be getting a very large chunk of the book in Adam's POV it more than made up for my worries.Mercy may be the star of this series but her relationship with Adam is integral and I loved the chance to spend more time in his head to see exactly how he was dealing with things.
Mercy Thompson returns in a series that's not even close to growing old, this time around getting kidnapped by a big-bad vampire who runs Europe and has ties with her local seethe.
My initial thoughts when reading the synopsis months ago was eek, are we finally getting more Stefan?While I'm team Adam all the way for Mercy romantic wise, I think it's a shame the author hasn't explored more of the closeness of Stefan and Mercy, especially since he's a favorite, fascinating character for me.
We also don't get to see familiar fae pop up, but we do get some time - finally - with the vampire seethe again.
This is the kind of book that I just love to read.This is the tenth book in the Mercy Thompson series which I do recommend reading in order.
Another difference that I was thrilled to see in this book is that part of the story is told from Adam's point of view.
I can't wait to read more books about Mercy, Adam, and the gang as soon as I can get my hands on them.I received an advance reader edition of this book from Berkley Publishing Group via NetGalley.Initial ThoughtsThis was sooo good!
I loved that we get a lot of the story from Adam's perspective in addition to Mercy.
Slight problem though as Mercy is still hurt by the Marrocks recent decision to set Adams pack free but what with Mercy offering help to all in the Tri cities area it's not exactly a surprise when trouble in the shape of foreign vampires decides to come knocking ( well technically it's shunting!
Although regular readers will know that Mercy is frequently underestimated and quite capable of bringing chaos wherever she goes!I loved the way this was set out with a timeline that wiggles just right.
The author keeps her readers on our collective toes and throws so much into this book.
Sometimes the lesser of two evils isn’t always that best choice and some old ghosts are better left alone.This installment, Silence Fallen of Mercy Thompson inspired a re-read of the entire series.I know I am totally jumping the gun, but I couldn't wait to read more of Mercy and I ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT.
Mercy seeks alliances as soon as she gets the opportunity, and these alliances open an entire world that I would love to get to know even more...the European werewolves.
I just finished Fire Touched. I loved it. Please don't ask me to wait a year for this one. I don't think I can make it.EDIT: IT HAS A COVER. LOOK AT IT. IT'S BEAUTIFUL.
SILENCE FALLEN might be the most exciting Mercy Thompson book yet! With ten books in a series, it’s hard to keep a series going and feeling fresh over the years but I think Patricia Briggs has done an excellent one with this series and in particular, this book.SILENCE FALLEN establishes the bond between the pack right before Mercy is kidnapped. This brings Stefan back into the picture and now Adam must work with the vampire in order to get Mercy back. In terms of writing, this book is slightly
With ten books in a series, it’s hard to keep a series going and feeling fresh over the years but I think Patricia Briggs has done an excellent one with this series and in particular, this book.SILENCE FALLEN establishes the bond between the pack right before Mercy is kidnapped.
I thought it brought so much fun to the series and in terms of the suspense, I think it had to be right up with there some of my other favorites from this series.
Patricia Briggs did an excellent job with executing this story.Read my alternate review at Fresh Fiction
"I’m a mechanic; I fix things that are broken.
I turn into a thirty-five-pound coyote.
I have powerful friends.
But when it comes right down to it, my real superpower is chaos."Changing points of view, that's a new one for this series!
I liked it, although I am not quite sure about the off-set timeline.
It added an interesting dynamic, but probably made it unnecessarily complicated.Nice revelation there at the end, makes me want to re-read the whole damn book right away...
Some great character additions.
Great visuals, good plot, entertaining, three very late nights of not wanting to put this down...
I adored the different point of views and the dynamic of the characters and while I wish Mercy and Adam would have been together more because I adore them working as a team and as a couple, it was kind of fun to see them still working together but far apart from one another.
And even better we still get all the favorite characters from past books and even meet a few new ones that I truly hope we will be seeing more of in future installments.
4.5 stars I can't really be objective when it comes to Mercy Thompson, because I just love the series.
That said, the general consensus seems to be that Silence Fallen is awesome:)I liked the change in scenery, taking things to Europe, and I always love the way a new mythology is introduced and used in the stories.
All around, this one was one of my favourites in the series.I have to give credit to Patricia Briggs; she consistently publishes books each year and on schedule, and I do think she has kept a long running series fresh and interesting.
It's hard to believe this is the 10th book in the Mercy Thompson Series as Patricia Briggs' ability to capture her readers attention is still at an all-time strong!
Continuing to develop the complex UF world where werewolves, vampires, witches, fae, goblins, and shape shifters (like Mercy--though she also has some other secret powers that come in handy in this book) learn to coexist.
This of course sets off a whole chain of events both from the sly Mercy, who though slight in shifter size as a coyote, has a remarkable ability to fend for herself, and from Adam and his pack as well as all their supernatural allies.
This book had had some pros and cons for me going into it.
Pros: I trust Patricia Briggs, pretty much my mantra from the last book which worked out well and I have been following this series faithfully for a while so I am well....see my first point.
Mercy series is alive and well in my eyes.
Additional notes: So I had to go back and read this book again..this is a must there is so much you don't catch the first time around.
