https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92832.Waiting_for_Lefty
odat odets
I understand the choice of the episodes in the play, but I feel like we don’t get a clear view of many of the characters. This is an interesting script with potential. It does seem to be cut short.
this was in some parts really funny but overall it was too strong with the black and white / good and bad message that came off as very propaganda-like. i was also a bit shocked at how short this was
This is probably one of the best known plays by Odets, one that neatly summarizes his belief in the sanctity of workers and their right to fair employment.
While he tries to explain to all the workers in the audience – Candide-like – how good they have it, they are all thinking in more realistic terms.
They’re waiting for their leader, their worker organizer, Lefty to come by and take over the meeting.
Unlike the Iceman and more like Godot, Lefty never shows up.
The problem I have with a lot of political texts is that they frequently sacrifice art for direct political commentary, which doesn't appeal to my aesthetic (Native Son, for instance), and I think this play falls almost into staged political speech.The play itself is an interesting piece of political drama, however, because of the structure.
The play consists of a series of short scenes interspersed amongst a choric union committee meeting.
Although still heavy-handed and overtly political, this structure of interlaced scenes playing off and supporting a central theme (the union meeting) do redeem the play somewhat.
I actually really enjoyed this play, in contrast to the previous one.
I have never been a fan of short stories for the fact that you do not gain any character development (something I love about reading books) and so I felt the same with this play, since it is so short.
I would have loved for it to have been longer and have found out more about the characters but I suppose the dramatisation when being performed adds to the characters as well.Overall, I enjoyed reading this play but would have liked for it to have been a bit longer.
I was in the third grade, when I first came across this one. My mother was playing Agate Keller, and at the time, other than the fact it was set in The Great Depression, I had no idea, what it meant. As an adult, now I do. I would go on record to say, that it's possible one of the most in depth looks at human nature during the depression, and especially now, it wouldn't be the worst thing in the world to go back and read it.
This play is a classic Man vs Big Business. Man never wins let me tell you. It's always some big cat fisher calling the shots. Over moral donkey headed prigs are getting in improvements way to save their own arses. The losers are the workers and philosophs who dream on short sleep of a better way.I'm tossed in the middle with meddlers always trying to influence my decision on which way to turn. This has been a rare reread for me, but an important one.
Seven vignettes about problems workers esperiejced in 1935 during the Great Depression: Pay, unions, families, prejudice, unemployment.Very appropriate for our times. The American People are standing up as other Americans and other power People have stood up for their rights before. The Human Rights Act states that humans have a right to shelter and food and education (academic and skills) and medical care, all things Americans are sorely needing.
This Great Depression-era play about labor organizing has been called little more than communist propaganda (and not only by the House of Un-American Activities Committee), and the assessment is, frankly, not entirely false. Odets clearly has an agenda, one that emerges in this short play at the expense of characterization or plot. But there's something charming about the unfettered political motivations on display here.
I like the structure of this play best of any of its elements. It was easy to visualize and would be a snap to stage. At 25 pages, it really moves too which is nice. It's about unions which I think is still relevant although I think the issues are more grey now than they are in this time period. I don't think I would really want to watch this play unless it was modernized and re-contextualized but I think the author achieves what he set out to do so it is a success on those grounds.
Amazing play that really grasps the ideals and feelings of the working class. Whether it's 1935 or 2015 it grasps the feeling of not getting what you're worth and the decision to put up with it or not.
Short and sweet. Such potent pleas without much backstory to these men and women. Such great one-off scenes. The play continues to live on in my mind while I hope the workers get what they need... Loved the scene between husband and wife, and the scene between young woman and her love. Heartache.
Good play!
I love this play! I been cast as Dr. Benjamin.
It was okay....
Much like communism itself, this play is a good idea, probably interesting to watch unfold, but boring as hell on paper. A good production could be riveting. A bad production would be deadly.
I think this is one of the plays we read in high school.
The dated language in this play made it difficult to read and enjoy.
