https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36212848-the-other-woman
I actually finished this a couple of days ago, but I’ve been sitting here wondering what I can say other than WOW.
This was completely unexpected in the best way possible.
You’ll want to go in blind people, as it reads best knowing nothing ahead of time, but all I can say for now is you definitely want to add this to your reading list for 2018!
😱😱😱 Fans of twisty, tense, psychological suspense (see what I did there?!) will eat this one up!
I’ll be sure to add a full review once arcs are sent out!
2.5 stars The Other Woman is a wildly entertaining psychological thriller that's, unfortunately, more about the twist than substance.  The plot: Emily meets the love of her life, Adam. Adam is a pretentious ass and treats Emily like dirt. His mother, Pammie, treats her even worse and Emily thinks she's a psycho. Then there’s James, Adam’s brother whom Emily has the hots for. But hey, it must be true love because Emily is going to marry Adam no matter who or what gets in her way, including his ps
Adam is a pretentious ass and treats Emily like dirt.
But hey, it must be true love because Emily is going to marry Adam no matter who or what gets in her way, including his psychotic mother and dreamy brother.
Sure, Adam treats Emily like sh*t but she’s never felt this way about any man before so it must be true love.
I’m not sure that there was, but the twist certainly put things in a different perspective.
The twist was different than what I was expecting and is why I gave this book 2.5 stars vs.
I DID not see that ending coming - not at all!!!Emily has finally met the perfect man.
He defends his Mother and often blames Emily for the rift and distance between the two women.Holy Hell!
Talk about a book with a shocking ending.
I love when a book can leave me sitting there with my mouth hanging open.
The characters in this book are fantastic, some you will love to hate and there are some you will love.
Talking about enjoyable, I enjoyed this book from beginning to end but that ending....
4.5 stars - Buddy read with Holly B!
I would just like to state for the record that I officially read too many psychological thrillers and my inner detective will not go away - once again I had it figured out early on so I have to say, I can’t rate thrillers anymore based on the twist.
I love love loved to hate these characters - they are nutty in the best way possible.
They were truly driving Holly and myself bananas the whole read, and that is the best kind of character for me.
A super well done psychological thriller!
You guys know I'm not a fan of the helpless, hand wringing "heroine" and yep, that's what we have in our girl, Emily.
Run for the hills!There is a character you will love to hate in the form of future mother-in-law, Pammie.
Pammie's personality almost makes up for the lackluster story and I did enjoy her part very much.Seriously, I can't think of anything else to tell you about THE OTHER WOMAN.
I'm getting grouchy just thinking about it, I better stop before I change it to 2 stars.Thank you, Netgalley, for allowing me to read and give my honest opinion.
At long last, Emily has finally found the man of her dreams...Adam.
Marrying Adam also means marrying the other woman in his life....
his mother!!Pamela (Pammie), the soon to be mother-in-law is going to do whatever it takes to drive a permanent wedge between her darling sonny boy and his soon to be wife.
Poor Emily.
You’ll just have to read it to find out!Fast-paced with short chapters will keep you blazing through the pages just to see how far Pamela will go to stop the wedding!Once again I found myself screaming at Emily to just leave Adam!
Emily is parched and works her way over to the bar for a glass of wine.
Before long, Adam brings Emily home to meet his mother.
Ol' Pammie flies circles on a broom around her son, Adam.
Emily will never be good enough for the likes of Adam......ever.Sandie Jones has set up the character of Pammie so wickedly that you will wince every time she enters the room.
It's a fun book that will bring you out of your doldrums and will keep you turning pages until the end.
My thanks to Minotaur Books and to Sandie Jones for the opportunity.
I’d recommend reading very few reviews, but read mind of course!😉What do you do when the “other woman“ is your significant other’s mother?
And to clarify what I mean by this is your S/O is overly emotionally tied to his mother....
And even worse what if she is a controlling, manipulative, and condescending mother?
Emily was a really relatable and likable character, all she wanted to do was find love...
And I loved hating Pammie right along with Emily!
Absolutely recommend if you enjoy a good character driven thriller with a heck of an ending!*** many thanks to St. Martin’s Press for my copy of this fab book ***
Her friend tells Emily that Adam's mom will love her.On their way to meet his mother, Emily asks about his mother and he states that she's like any other mother, that she's a good woman.
But it's their next visit when Emily realizes that while Adam may be the man of her dreams, Emily is also in for a nightmare...and that nightmare is Adam's mother, Pammie.I loved the cover of this novel and was really intrigued by the book's description.
I was excited to start reading.Overall, I enjoyed this novel but there were times I found myself getting annoyed with some of the actions of the characters and the situations they were in.
Buddy read w/ Melisa ....
4.5 STARSThis has a twisty plot and is an addictive page turner with a quirky cast of characters….Enter Pammie - Controlling mother like no other!
A bit of advice to Emily (her soon to be daughter in law), pack your bags and RUN.Unfortunately, Emily is one of those friends who won’t listen to anyone because she knows best.
She loves Adam with all her heart and won’t allow anyone to come between them (so she thinks anyway).Can I just say…the war is on and Pammie doesn’t like to lose.Thanks to Minotaur for my advanced copy.
Unforgettable characters.This story follows Emily, who has met handsome and successful Adam, the man of her dreams.
Things begin to drastically change when Emily meets her future mother-in-law, Pammie.
Pammie is a character I will not soon forget!
There were many moments I found my mouth dropping in wonder of what was going to happen next.
Some of what happened was just “too much” for me to believe.
I did have a hard time connecting to any of the characters – for me, they were entertaining, but unrealistic.This was a Traveling Sister read.
I actually have a nice, normal mother in law but I guess knowing I was lucky and dodged a bullet there makes these type of stories just freak me out more than reading a novel about a serial killer.
But even though I felt on edge throughout the book it still was a fun type feeling you get when you can't wait to find out what happens next.
One criticism I have of the book is I don't think enough time was spent developing Adam and Emily's relationship so it was obvious why Emily wouldn't run for the hills after getting to know his mother.
4.5 starsI was worried this book would not live up to the hype, but am am happy I was wrong.
I did have trouble understanding why Emily stayed with Adam in light of all the trouble the relationship was causing, her (not spoiler, don't worry!), but other than that, I really enjoyed this book.
I am impressed it is the author's debut and look forward to her next one!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.comThanks to Netgalley for supplying me with a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
Really didn't like it.The dialogue between Emily and Adam.
Also Emily acts like an idiot.
I couldn't stand to read a book about Emily, dedicated to bag Adam, happy to shut up and take things as he pleases.
The world is full of Emily's with low self esteem, it just hurts to read about them running after a man as it's life or death, as if this is normal!
I read a lot of thrillers and seen worse plots.
Then the female protagonist, telling her friend something like 'IT is this new industry I don't know about'.
While Pammie appears to be friendly and welcoming little things she does or say seem to get the best of Emily but Emily is not willing to give up her love for Adam despite his mother.The story inside of The Other Woman is not a new one but it’s one that has managed to grab my attention time and time again.
Emily and Pammie made such an entertaining pair this go round that I flew right through the book and would certainly recommend this to those that enjoy a good old fashioned drama filled suspenseful ride.I received an advance copy from the publisher via NetGalley.For more review please visit https://carriesbookreviews.com/
I like books that have a twist, unfortunately, the twist at the end of this one didn’t ring true to me.I liked Emily, and disliked Pammie so much, that I found this to be an absolute page turner, hoping that somehow things would work out for Emily.Emily meets handsome Adam at a bar during a conference.
Until he introduces her to his mother Pammie, who, very subtly, tries to destroy Emily’s relationship with her son.
Adam thinks that Emily is being petty when she tries to point out the ways his mom hurts her.
He doesn’t see the secret machinations of his mother.
This is a very good debut novel by author Sandie Jones that makes me eagerly anticipate further books from this new thriller writer.Emily falls in love with Adam and there is no doubt in her mind that she has found her true love.
But circumstances change when she encounters the other woman, Pammie.
Pammie is Adam's mother and seems to be on a mission to keep them apart, but how far will she go to succeed.
This psychological thriller is full of good characters and I found it compelling with its well paced plot that kept me wanting to find out more.
Yet love is not really a word I would use in this particular scenario.
Because mother, Pammie, despises her son Adam's fiance, Emily, and she will stop at nothing to keep the two apart.
Adam, of course, believes his mother is a saint and that Emily is the one causing the rift in the relationship.
There were just SOOOOO many opportunities for Emily to prove to Adam how malicious a woman his mother could be but she just chose not to in fear of upsetting him?
(hide spoiler)] Minor details nothing to bother him with.
Emily thinks Adam is perfect; the man she thought she would never meet.
But lurking in the shadows is a rival; a woman sho shares a deep bond with the man she loves.They say love is blind and there has never been a truer saying to describe what's happening in this book.
When Emily meets the other love in Adams life, his mother Pammie, she is not met with the most pleasant person.
Even saying she has a terminal illness so that her son would cancel the wedding.I know there must be women all over the world who have mother-in-laws from hell and Pammie fits easily into this category.
3.5 boy was she manipulative stars "A car is like a mother-in-law - if you let it, it will rule your life." (Jamie Lerner)Emily meets Adam and the wheels spin and romance is in the air.
Devastated Emily, finds eventually a man who she think is her perfect man, Adam.
Their romance takes off and soon it is time for Emily to meet Adam's mother, Pammie.
the sparks start to fly as Pammie who is a master manipulator, twists words and actions to make it appear that Emily is always in the wrong.
Cliche' after cliche', contradiction after contradiction, eye roll after eye roll....The whole premise was just too absurd from me to take seriously.Others have had much better luck with this though, so what the heck do I know?ARC provided by NetGalley
This is a very similar plot line as this story but Sandie takes a slightly different right turn on this drive....I was fully engaged in this story but there was so many unanswered questions that I had in my mind upon finishing this.
Adam and Emily's relationship takes off like a rocket.
Emily soon is introduced to Adam's mother Pammie.
setting traps at every moment she can in order for Emily to struggle with her relationship with Adam.
Why, does Pammie hate Emily so much?The Other Woman is a novel that will keep you turning those pages until the very end.
Emily however, has no idea that Adam is a mama's boy.
then again a girl’s got to try, right?“The Other Woman” by Sandie Jones is a campy entertaining mystery/suspense.
I really enjoyed where “The Other Woman” was going, right up until the end where I felt kind of bamboozled.
Though parts of the novel were a bit unbelievable, it was an enjoyable read which I would recommend.
This was a Traveling Sister Read.
Thank you to NetGalley, St. Martin’s Press and Sandie Jones for an ARC of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
The cover states it perfectly: He loves me.
She loves me not.
Is Pammie truly a vindictive mother-in-law or is Emily an unreliable narrator?
I found the female characters to be well developed, but the male characters slightly less so.
I never saw the big appeal of Adam and didn’t find myself really believing their love story, but I certainly believed in it more than (view spoiler)[ the supposed relationship with James.
For me, that relationship wasn’t developed enough to be anything more than a platonic relationship with mutual attraction between the two.
Lindsay and I read The Other Woman with four of our Traveling Sisters and we all pretty much had the same thoughts on this one till that shocking reveal that split us into two different coulees.
A few things didn't ring true for us with some of the actions of the characters causing us to suspend some disbelief On to that ending that none of seen coming and split us into different coulee.
I recommend this one to readers looking for an entertaining and fun read with some very unlikable character and an ending that we will challenge your detective skills.
I received a free e-copy of The Other Woman by Sandie Jones from NetGalley for my honest review.This was a fantastic read.
Very gripping, intense psychological thriller.
It kept you guessing till the very end.
This is a story of woman named Emily who falls in love whit a man named Adam.
Adam's mother, Pammie, who doesn't want to share her son with anyone keeps trying to sabotage anything she can to make Emily's life a living hell.
How far will Pammie go to keep Emily out of Adam's life?
What really happened to Rebecca, Adam's deceased ex-girlfriend?
Such a great read.
I could not put this book down! Absolute page turner - easily 5 stars from me.Emily meets Adam and falls had over heels in love with him. And then she meet Pammie - Adam's mother. This is when her life starts to spin out of control.A great story with a twist that you will not see coming. Thanks Pan MacMillan and Netgalley for an advanced copy of this book to read and enjoy in exchange for my honest views.
Emily fell in love with Adam, but his mother was another story.
Adam's mother Pammie did everything she could to get rid of Emily and stop the wedding.
Emily just became more determined to overcome Pammie's maneuvers and marry Adam.
The trouble was Adam just didn't see how mean his mother was being to Emily.
It would really be hard to marry a man when you would have to put up with this witch of a woman - she's just evil.This book had a great twist to it that I didn't see coming.

This was an enjoyable addictive domestic suspense thriller with some very disagreeable characters.Adam Banks and Emily Havistock met in a London bar.
Emily thinks Adam’s perfect, the man she thought she’d never meet.But waiting in the shadows is a rival, a woman who shares a deep bond with the man she loves.
And this woman, Adam’s mother, “Pammie”, will stop at don’t to break up the relationship…she wants Emily gone…and to have her son all to herself.A tug of war…so who will win?
The characters come alive on the pages, either you love them or you hate them.
