https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8704.Starship_Titanic
easily the best book I've ever read that was based on a CD-ROM computer game, especially under the sub-category of books written by comedians I like based on CD-ROM games by favorite authors. I dare say it tops both of those lists.
B.R.A.CE. 2018 Ένα βιβλίο για το οποίο έχεις μεγάλες προσδοκίες   Douglas Adams first imagined the Starship Titanic in Life, the Universe and Everything, the third entry in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, where it is briefly mentioned in the book's 10th chapter. Adams describes it as a "majestic and luxurious cruise-liner" that "did not even manage to complete its very first radio message - an SOS - before undergoing a sudden and gratuitious total existence failureΤι άλλο να ζητήσ
Adams describes it as a "majestic and luxurious cruise-liner" that "did not even manage to complete its very first radio message - an SOS - before undergoing a sudden and gratuitious total existence failureΤι άλλο να ζητήσω δλδ; Μία ιδέα του αγαπημένου Douglas Adams, σε απόδοση από ένα μέλος των Monty Python ( Terry Jones ) ο οποίος συμφώνησε να γράψει το μυθιστόρημα με τον όρο ότι θα το έγραφε απολύτως γυμνός!Μην ψάξετε τον σύνδεσμο με το "Γυρίστε τον γαλαξία με ωτοστόπ", εκείνο είναι μοναδικό.
Αυτό το βιβλίο είναι κάπου παραδίπλα.
Είναι η φαντασία του αναγνώστη του έργου του Adams για όλα τα spin off που δεν μπόρεσαν να γραφτούν.
Or else that it would be somehow similar to that episode of Doctor Who with Ten, although that's probably because I've been re-watching the series on Netflix.The whole idea of the Starship Titanic was a one-off joke in the Hitchhiker's novels, and so while this book is 250-ish pages, it reads quickly and feels more like a short story.
But since there are clear echoes of things that are Adams' ideas, the fact that it is written instead by Jones makes it almost feel like a sub-par fanfic.
The book is a quick read, and isn't terrible, but don't expect to be wowed by it.
Where do I sign my soul away?I'm very glad I didn't shell out a lot of cash for this book.
It showed promise, but read like a chapter book for kids.
The book has its funny moments, and because of those, I do not regret reading it.
If you should pick up this book, get it from a library, or borrow it from some poor schmuck like me who saw the names on the cover and went bananas.
But don't assume that you're getting the epitome of Humor, because this book is far from it.
I love a good space adventure. When its funny and just plain silly, I'm even more content. Its a fun romp with aliens, a luxury spaceship and true love. Spoiler alert, it has a happy ending so there!
i feel like there is a little robot tap-dancing on my brain.
That something written by DNA should receive anything other than 5/5 says it all really. The idea is here, the bones with a fair degree of meat attached, but... it hasn't the ability to lead you to a 'wow moment' without seeing it well in advance. As his other books did. Do!I bought the game too, it was equally as frustrating.
Hitchhiker's Guide meets Monty Python. What more could you ask for? The settings and characters are pure Adams but the writing is unquestionably Terry Jones. A fun reads for fans of both styles with a couple laugh out loud passages.
I love this book I know something I did not know.
Not as good as the first time I read it, but they never are. Still, pretty good, for a novel that was written in three weeks.
Всичко това го пише във въведението.Първо, искам да си призная, че навремето така и не успях да довърша играта, защото се появиха други заглавия, прекалено след времето си на излизане ми попадна и… вече беше към края на манията ми да играя куестове.
Освен това друга цивилизация си иска “произведението” обратно и е готова да си го вземе на всяка цена, стига никой да не пострада, особено корабът (ако нещо се случи, те ще си го поправят, разбира се).Казано накратко, книгата има някои много силни хумористични моменти.
Тя не е като да иска да избухне, но все пак това е част от същестуването й.
(2.5) Fun concept, not Terry-bly well writtenTerry Jones is no novelist, but the storyline plane that is one of the pillars of great Adams writing is still present (others being satire and witty wording/dialogue), and delights despite the nonstop narrative in place of dialogue/inner monologue.
Maybe the game makes more sense now?
(I never made any headway whatsoever—must’ve needed to work on that second class upgrade first...)[pre-reading:] Played the computer game based on this (or I guess the other way around) a long, long time ago.
Maybe this novel will shed some light on what we were supposed to do...
After all, it was written by Terry Jones and based on a game by Douglas Adams.What wouldn't there be to enjoy?Spoiler alert: the answer is "A lot."It wasn't good.
This being said, I've yet to go through the game—it's on the to-do list—so I'm not sure how true this actually is.But it is at this point that it seems like Jones' plot properly kicks in, and it is simply convoluted (well, not actually simply).The complications begin with a love triangle which expands to a love pentagon for the majority of the novel, briefly expands to a hexagon, then back to a pentagon before resolving itself in the way you've been expecting for the past three-quarters of the novel.
Takto - základní nápad je zajímavý, představivost autorů skvělá a začíná to velmi slibně. Člověk si říká (po přečtení předmluvy), že to bude takové zajímavé převedení počítačové hry do knihy. Jenže... Není to vtipné. Děj divně skáče, opakuje se, motá se a nedává smysl. A i když už člověk cítí, jaký by to mohlo mít ústřední motiv, zase to uteče někam pryč. A to i když se onen motiv opakovaně vrací. Nemluvě o mizení, objevování a všeobecném nepropracování postav... A ona divná posedlost divným sexem. No, nevím. Tohle se z mého pohledu mnoho nepovedlo.
Funny, but well below Douglas Adams's levelIt was a good read. A story taken straight out of a footnote in one of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy books, the demise of the Starship Titanic.The book is very tongue in cheek and had its good bits, just don't expect it to be of the same caliber as even the worst of the Hitchhiker's books. I'm not sorry I read it, but if you're not a huge fan of Douglas Adams and his work, you'll probably be very underwhelmed.
A book from Adams that is not from Adams but from Terry. He was honest enough in his prologue to explain why this book was written and how. Also what are Terry 's strength and weaknesses. I couldn't agree more with his own critique about this book. The extra star goes for the honesty.
Douglas Adams and Terry Jones, in collaboration.
As I went through the "to be read pile" this turned up next on that huge pile and I admit to a happy smile at that.The pleasure didn't last so long as it turns out this is not the most stunning example of any of the hitchhiker tales.
The humour turns to farce, and not in a funny way, but in typical, Monty Python style which overdoes the funny bits and diminishes the total kind of way.
Skimmed much of it and realised I didn't actually miss anything.All OK, but not worth a reread.
I got this book from my grandpa. I read Life, the Universe and Everything and then read this book. This was not written like what Douglas Adams wrote like.
I found a copy of Douglas Adams's Starship Titanic at a half-price book store last December, and picked it up.
The story opens with Leovinus - the genius designer of the Starship Titanic "the ship that cannot possibly go wrong" - taking a last-minute tour of the ship, only to find that some very serious corners were cut in its construction.
Terry Jones does a serviceable job writing from the basic outline of the game that Adams designed - but he just doesn't have the subtle & absurd way with language that we see in Hitchhikers or Dirk Gently.
Overall, I'd rate Starship Titanic as a decent, if light, sci-fi read - and recommend it to Douglas Adams completists.
A wonderful sci fi novel with a twist on the Titanic story.Leovinus a genius of the galaxy has an id
Oh, how I wanted to like this book more.
But for me it was simply impossible not to go into it with sky-high expectations, even though I tried not to.
I also have very high standards for comedy.
(I'm picky, perhaps a comedy snob, and I find most mainstream "humor" to be unfunny.) So I might be more critical than the average reader.
A few chuckles and maybe two good laughs was not enough for a book by a comedic dream team.
If the rest of the book was up to the standards of the few very funny sections, this could have been a 5-star book.
Nad počtem hvězdiček jsem hodně váhala, ale nakonec jsem se rozhodla, že by bylo nespravedlivé zvyšovat knize hodnocení jen kvůli jménu autora.Přiznávám, že "Titanic" byl pro mě docela zklamáním. Vše, co se mi tak líbilo na Stopařově průvodci, se zde jaksi míjelo účinkem. Čtení mě nijak zvlášť nebavilo, i když jsem se sem tam zasmála typickému "Douglasovskému" vtipu. Rozhodla jsem se tedy pro dvě hvězdičky - "It was OK", ale nic víc.
I was very happy to discover this book on my aunt's shelf, as I thought I'd read everything influenced by Douglas Adams. It was written by Terry Jones based on a game developed by Douglas Adams. This was an entertaining read with a few laughs, and great for over Christmas. It sounds like a game I would have enjoyed playing.
Auch wenn ich kein wirklicher Fan von Monty Python bin und mit dem Namen Terry Jones nicht viel anfangen konnte, fühlte ich mich doch ein wenig in die Zeiten des "Anhalters" zurückversetzt. Die Reise von Lucy und Co. mit dem Starship Titanic erinnert gekonnt an Douglas Adams' Werk, wirkt aber leider auch teilweise wie ein lauwarmer Aufguss. Insgesamt war sie nette kurzweilige Unterhaltung.
I listened to the audio book, with Terry Jones narrating, and it was brilliant. I'd highly recommend it. His narration of a particular sex scene and the subsequent discovery of that scene by the other characters had me laughing so hard that it left me gasping for air. It was a fun book. I'll add it to my list of books that I reread when I need a pick me up.
A humorously silly planetary adventure...
Една от не толкова добрите и забавни хумористични фантастики - слаба фабула и малко скучновати герои. Все пак съм доволна, че привършвам цикъла "Дъглас Адамс" :)
Eğlenceli bir romandı. Terry Jones, Douglas Adams'ın üslubunu yakalamış. Çeviri mükemmeldi Özden Arıkan'ın çeviri tercihlerine bayıldım.
Love Monty Python, Love Douglas Adams, enjoyed the video game this book was based on. Disappointed in the book.
Which is to say, coming into this reread, I was mostly expecting a not-funny, predictable Titanic-in-space, Futurama-did-it-better novel.That's not what Starship Titanic is.Back in 1998 the Starship Titanic video game released.
Enter, Terry Jones.The best part of Starship Titanic is the introduction, which Adams did write.
On the other hand, Adams's inability to meet deadlines likely meant that he would have never been able to finish Starship Titanic, even had he agreed.
Many of Jones' high points feel like echoes of jokes or ideas Adams already did better in The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
