https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13402447-unenchanted
I really wanted to like this book.
But the book, in my mind, had two major flaws:1) The lack of editing.
I got this as a free Kindle book, so I can't really complain, but the lack of editing jarred me out of the story on several occasions.2) The story development.
Her best friend's iPhone and Twitter might be mentioned more times than the curse.
We hear that there are over 200 tales for Mina to complete, but she only gets through two before the book abruptly ends.
Speaking of the ending, I didn't like it.
I hate when a book has a really good idea, but is written poorly. This is one of those books. I will end up reading all of the series (most probably) because I like the plot line. The book on the other hand is full of editing issues and dull characters.
I got this as a free book for kindle, so I figured I'd read it.
After all, you can't beat free right?
Well, as it turns out, you can.
There's probably a reason this book was free.To start off, the book was so poorly written that I wanted to cry.
There were commas where there shouldn't have been commas.
There were run on sentences.
The writing was mediocre at best.
I could go on and on, but I'll just sum it up by saying save yourself some time and read something that's actually worthwhile.
While the story development needed some work and the editing seemed non-existent, I was sucked in, needing to know how Mina would succeed in the current round of the curse and who all the characters represented.
Unfortunately, I liked Mina's best friend, Nan, more than her.
I do have to give some benefit of the doubt to Mina because of her circumstances—her mother has been holding her and information back—and Mina does get better as the story progresses, though not by much.But the ending was great, if not a little Grimm—and I mean that in the best way possible.
This is the first book I have ever read that was a twist to a fairy tale.
Or should I say fairy tales.So this girl, Mina, discovers that the day she saved a life is also the day that her whole life changed.
The farthest anyone got were the Grimm Brothers — the first to start the course — they got through over 190 tales before they died and even they didn't make it through all the fairy tales.I like this book a lot but didn't like the ending.
Brody — who she dated for weeks — doesn't remember being with her after she finishes one of the fairy tales.
“Not all Fairy Tales have happily ever afters. Some just have afters.”  Starting the sequel immediately.I really liked this book even though it was a bit hard for me to connect with the main character Mina.The story is very interesting and original and the supporting characters seem cool,I hope that there will be more character development for them.How cute is Charlie,tho?♥ The writing is really good,I really enjoyed reading this.
Downloaded for free from Amazon.co.ukThis was a YA fantasy story, about a girl with a curse.Mina was an okay character, but she was nothing special.
I didn’t find myself rooting for her at all, and I didn’t really care what happened to her.The storyline in this was about Mina saving a boy at school’s life, and him then instantly falling in love with her, which wasn’t the most believable of tales.
We then had Mina finding out that she was cursed, and having to live out fairy tales, which also wasn’t all that believable, and I just found the story a bit lacking.
There was the semi love triangle.
Basically all the main characters could be replaced with ones from Twilight.The good:1.
We didn't see that guy brood for 600 pages, we didn't see Mina pine and then mope for half the book.
The story had to progress quickly and that's the number one thing I look for in books.2.
While Mina's character is rather helpless for most of the story it didn't seem pathetically so.
While I suspected some parts, I still have no clue the role one of the characters plays.So is it the perfect book.
Sooo. i really enjoyed this book and can't wait to read the rest of the series.When Mina saved Brody and she found out about the curse i was all likeThen after she battled the story and was kidnapped by grey tail i was all likeBut then she was won and was safe and i celbrated likeAnd then everyone else forgot everything that had happened and Jared turned back up i was just like
A wonderful twist on the story of the Grimms and their fairy tales. Mina winds her way through trouble not knowing just how strong she really is. And knowing that this is only the beginning, makes this engaging book more than an enchanted series to be drawn into!!!
It was the story that drew me in as I read UnEnchanted though, because while the characters fit the stereotypical characteristics it didn't leave me with the expected fairy tale ending.
The story was pretty original, and though Mina is whiny at times she has far more depth than many characters I've read that fit her characteristics.
I liked how this book doesn't really give you exactly what you want, or what a fairy tale happy ending lover would want.
I felt that this book has the potential to make the reader think about more than boys, love, and happy endings.
Said romantic interest is mentally raved about way too much by annoying main character and is way too perfect, being not only the best looking boy in the school, popular but willing to date a school misfit without any care for social status, filthy rich, and also willing to be a doormat for the main character and keep coming back repeatedly no matter how many times she rejects him flat.
The best friend of the main character is apparently considered really pretty and cool by the entire school and yet it seems that her social life consists only of hanging out with her misfit best friend (unless you count online interaction).
The characters utterly killed this book for me.
It means that my opinion is quite biased even though now as a more experienced reader I found faults which I didn’t before.That’s also why I’m making this a shorter review than normal because I don’t want to mark those memories with critiques that never mattered to me back then.Basically I love this book.The writing may not be award-winning and the characters not dramatically deep, but it was a hell of an enjoyable read.
Its magical aspect merged beautifully with the real world making it the perfect light read to take you away for the few hours it takes to read.The characters aren’t perfect I’ll admit, and not just in the way they were written, yet because of it they felt all the more real.
Mina Grime was taught to stay out of the spotlight and if by any chance she did start gaining notice, her mother would pack up the family’s belongings and move to a new location.
From there, they would start fresh and Mina would go unnoticed until she saved her crush’s life.It was just another miserable day for Mina.
Or had she almost killed him?This story is a fast paced on that involves the search for the Grimoire book which will help Mina figure out how to fight the Story and save her life as well as her mother and brother’s.
Sometimes, it is necessary to give up one thing to get another, and in the early days of the Unfortunate Fairy Tale series, it was necessary to skip on the cost of editorial services to be able to provide the book at a very low cost or even free.
I personally found the book excellent even having first read a version with editorial issues.
An excellent read, and far more age appropriate than many of the series that are touting themselves as "young adult" fiction these days.
I love fairy tales and thought it was fun to see how they were interwoven into this story.
Mina has to live each of the fairy tales and complete the stories in order to break a curse on her family.
I liked the side characters, Nan, Brody, Jared and little Charlie.
I think there is a lot more going on with Nan that what we’re given and I’m looking forward to seeing what happens with her in future books.
I think I’m still on Team Brody though, even though I don’t know what will happen with him now.
I didn't know what to expect from it, but after finishing it I am completely taken with the story and am looking to get the sequel to it (which unfortunately I have to buy but luckily it's under $5).It's a twist on the whole 'modern boy/girl who is a part of the Grimm family line and must contend with creatures from the fairytale world'.
Although I get the sense of a Twilight-like love triangle between Mina, Brody (the popular guy in school), and Jared (the mysterious boy who seems to know what is going on and tries to help Mina in his own rude way).Overall, this is a great book with a good flow that will keep your interest.
I think it could have been better with a planned out execution of the characters, plot and dialogue.
I'm not even sure who the true hero of the story is supposed to be considering we meet Jared about halfway through the book and he only shows up to irritate Mina and tell her some things about what's going on but not enough.
Here I'm thinking this is strictly related to fairy tales and then big surprise, there's another group of enchanted characters involved.
Not sure how this other species of characters relates to fairy tales but what do I know.
As I read UnEnchanted I was completely immersed in the story.
Chanda Hahn managed to create some of the most likeable and relatable characters I've read about in a long time.
I felt like I was on the journey with Mina.
I couldn't stop reading until I finished Mina's story.
I was so drawn to her character...every time Mina felt pain, I did too.
I've read things about the spelling and grammar errors in UnEnchanted....Keep in mind that this is a self published book.
Read it, fall in love with the characters, and dream about what's next for Mina.
okay so this was just a free book on my kindle....
so hey why not.buy it I thought!
OMG!!!
it was soooooooooooo good!
if you happen to like fairy tales ( and a little romance) then READ this!
the ending was like " wh-wh- what?!!
nooo!" it felt like it just stops like its in the middle of a chapter!
and also ( I am emotional in books remember.) I like cried to....
not balling, but it was just sad.
and why am I telling you that?!!
I have no idea!
so pretend I never said that stuff and trust me when I say, this was amazing!!!!!
I absolutely love this book.
This book has a very unique storyline based on the Grimm legends and curse.
I literally spent the day reading this book, breaking only to refill my coffee and use the little girl's room after drinking said coffee (which is likely a little over-share there).I won't give anything away with this book but I will say that I highly recommend it to anyone who likes fairy tales and the Grimm tales.
I really loved this book and was pleasantly surprised when I read it.
This one has been on my to read list for a long time and I finally got around to reading it. Well actually listening to it on Overdrive. Even better my 11 year old daughter came into the room and got hooked as well so we listened to it together yesterday while doing a puzzle. We both enjoyed it.Content: Clean
This was a YA novel I found for free on IBooks..... it was a sweet coming of age book, that I enjoyed reading, I noticed it’s a first in a series, may or may not read them....too many on my list!
The story jumped between POVs in odd intervals, the pacing was off, and the dialogue rarely brought depth to any character.
A well crafted piece of dialogue should be relaying the information that the author then spent time detailing.
While the story could have been exceptionally good, it was ruined for me by paranormal romance cliches that every self publishing YA author seems to be clinging to as their hopes to a movie deal.
There is some real promise in the writing and the concept, but it is one I would want to read more of after a well-seasoned YA editor helped the author work out the kinks.
This was a really fun read and an intriguing spin on the grimm fairytales.
I really liked the way this idea led the story and indeed will probably lead the series.
In itself., this was a complete tale and it left me excited to read the rest of the series.
I quite liked Mina even though she did frustrate me at times with her choices and it will be interesting to see if and how much she grows over the course of the series.
i am also hoping we will get to know more about the other characters as the series progresses.Overall a light fun read and series i will continue to read
I believe I read this a while ago! I'm going to reread this book :)
The plot is unpredictable, ranging in tone from juvenile to epic fantasy to action, sometimes with abrupt changes, but for me the effect of all this was to raise the tension as I wondered what would happen to Mina in the end.
I loved some of the ways in which the curse revealed itself, and this device allowed the author to take some liberties with the story line, most notably the ending, which was a little abrupt.On Goodreads this should really be a three-star review - but, for Chanda Hahn's wonderful concept and her well-executed cross-over between fairy-tale fantasy and contemporary YA, I'll raise it to four.
Embarrassed AF, she runs home.Her mom tells her about the Grimm's Curse, how each generation is chosen to live it out, and each generations actions change the outcome.
(Wow, Team Jared?!)So, by the end of the story, she and Nan are captured by Claire, who runs Babushka's and they are taken there, and she has been taking the emotions and energies from young men to stay alive, ala cougar.
Claire is demanding revenge and recompense from the book; she wants her story in the Grimoire, but it doesn't happen as Nan takes her part in the story.
Además lleva enamorada del chico más guapo del instituto desde hace dos años en secreto.
Siempre le han pasado cosas extrañas: los animales del zoo la persiguen, una fuerza extraña hace que siempre llegue tarde a clase… Pero eso es algo que nadie puede explicar… ¿o sí?
Resulta que Mina es ni más ni menos que la descendiente de los hermanos Grimm, quienes ya en su día estaban malditos.
Que no encuentro ninguna reseña sobre este libro en ningún blog.
Y de verdad que NECESITO hacerme con ella porque después del catastrófico final del primer libro me estoy muriendo de ganas de saber cómo continúa la cosa.
1.5 StarsI read this one a long time ago and the only memories that had remained were gittery happy memories of cute boys and an awesome plot-line so, of course, I decided that it would be a grand adventure to reread the book.
The writing felt more than a little rushed, the plot-line wasn't developed well and fell short, the relationships in the book flew too quickly and felt terribly sappy and I was a mess of disappointment.
I might read the next book, just because i bought it years ago and for old time's sake and flashback memories but sadly, I don't love this series anymore *cries*
