https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176788.Arrow_s_Flight
The spend most of the book brooding in the said shack.I am sorry if I did not make the description exciting, but this is exactly how this book feels (I am trying to avoid using the words "boring" and "snooze-fest" here).
To continue the comparison, this one reads like Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix, but without anything remotely exciting happening - in other words, almost 200 of pages of pure angst.Talia's character development was set back.
A lot.This book can be used as an example of the Middle Book of a Trilogy syndrome.
Oh, and the book just assumes the reader knows why Kris can't use the second level of the spell but Talia can-- and that's not explained in either Truth Spell Usage plot point.
Though I can certainly relate/empathize with the feeling of having to 'put on a strong face' in situations when I am in emotional turmoil underneath, I felt like I had lost empathy with the actual *character* of Talia because my willing suspension of disbelief about how her Gift and shields were working had been broken.
We get a clearer view of just what a Herald does here, the real nitty-gritty of the lives they lead and the work that they do, and much in the same way that Arrows of the Queen gives us a good look at just what training to be a Herald can be like, this is good groundwork for later books in that we know more about the little bits of Heraldic life, the less-than-epic events that sometimes get overlooked in the larger picture of the history of Valdemar.If this book has any one failing it's in the pacing, and even then there are understandable reasons why the author dwells on just about everything that happens for a month and then skips half a year.
Probably closer to 3.5 stars but rounding up. I enjoyed it, but not as much as Arrows of the Queen. I recently learned that the trilogy was originally written as one book and split into three; it makes the stopping points make more sense. I think this one moved a little more slowly than the first one, but it dealt with more interesting topics. Onto the third...
I'm tired of having to struggle for what seems to come easily to everyone else.I started this book more than a month ago, but only got about 20 pages in before I was absorbed in something else.
I picked it up again today, and started again from the beginning.I enjoyed reading it, but it felt a bit like both too little and too much happened over the course of about 300 pages.
I'm still planning to read the next book, which I've heard is a good conclusion to the trilogy.
Talia has problems with her empathy in this book, which I liked because everything within her own power seemed to come far to easily in the first novel.
Sex work is problem, but not a moral deficit on the part of the woman.
Rape is not sex.
And there are a hundred other issues that have nothing at all to do with sex, which a circuit judge has to deal with, woman or not.
My favorite judgment continues to be when Talia sees past the dispute brought to her by two plaintiffs and points out a serious underlying issue that no one asked her to deal with.
None of this shit ever happened to Harry Potter.
Talia continues her training to become a full-fledged Herald, although during her year-long internship she faces major set backs in terms of her power and her confidence.
She's out of control, constantly on the verge of breaking down and taking anyone near her down with her.
While I like the fact that Talia's heroic journey isn't one straight, ascending line into awesomeness, I was not necessarily keen on reading such a bleak story at this moment in time.
When I read magic house books, I want them to be fluffy and uplifting, durnit.
Still, on to the third book.
Book two of this trilogy. The early part of this book I enjoyed quite a bit more than the first book as there was a lot less 'magical horses' silliness and more character development. However, that was about all that happened. Great characters but little else. I have read that the final volume is a great conclusion so I will be continuing on later in the year.
Where to begin...let's try making a list:1) One of the things I enjoyed most about book 1, Arrows of the Queen, was Talia's growth from an abused, repressed child to a confident, wise-beyond-her-years Herald.
And yet Kris, who is surely at least somewhat aware of his uncle's political aspirations, immediately and continuously doubts Talia based on a question from his uncle regarding her character?
I may try to find a synopsis and then skip ahead to book 3, as I really do enjoy the world of the series and kind of want to see where it goes.
Second book in the Heralds of Valdemar series. I had forgotten how much I liked this series so it is going to be a pleasure to re-read all the books. I really like how the author builds her world without overwhelming the reader with more information than you can absorb. And an good job on character development as well as an exciting story. Am not sure I will be able to spread out the books like I originally planned to do as I am truly caught in her world.
I’m not entirely satisfied with the way Talia’s Gift was handled. I liked how she lost control and Kris had to teacher her grounding and centering. However, when she appears to actually get a hold of the Gift it feels glossed over. I hope the next book continues to explore her difficulties with controlling it.
Will review soon at www.fantasyliterature.com.
The thing that really slowed this read down—probably making it one of the less appreciated book in Talia's trilogy—is that a vast majority of the novel takes place in a Herald waystation where Talia and Kris are snowed in with their Companions and pack animals.
Looking back on my previous re-reads of this book I confess I never really appreciated the time spent with Talia getting retrained in her gift.
Key things are still being setup even if there was some isolation time for the characters.This may be the slowest book in the Arrows of the Queen trilogy, but it's still well worth the read.
But I still enjoyed it, and the series, a lot, so my saying that it’s my least favorite isn’t something bad, really.In this installment of the Heralds of Valdemar trilogy, Talia is sent out on her 18 month intership and the entire book revolves around the duties a Herald is likely to perform on circuit.
I mean, I’m glad that she had something she wasn’t sure of/skilled at, since a lot of things just came easily to her in the first book, but it was getting me depressed while I was reading about it.Back to Kris and Talia...
Another fantastic book from Mercedes Lackey, especially considering I read this straight after the first book.
It has all the fun of being a Herald outside of war time, but still with enough excitement and challenges to keep the book flowing.I'm super glad I downloaded this as a set of three online; you can go straight from one book to another and they were reasonably cheap (around $4.30 for the three books) I will admit, I didn't stop reading and moved onto book three immediately, so events in this book have kind of merged into one.
Still, an enjoyable second book and a great bridge to book three!
Also: usually this kind of story in a series where it mostly takes place in once location would bore me a bit, (like the second Temeraire book, Throne of Jade) but I was just as engulfed in it as I was in the first!
It will be sad to see Talia and her friends go, but I do remember seeing a book at the library about Skif before he was chosen, which is great because I do love me a good street urchin tale.
Far too much of this book suffers from the I can't talk about how I am feeling or what is going wrong plot device.
It is full of angst, Talia regresses as a character and it is slow.
(view spoiler)[ also why would Kris sleep with Talia when he thinks her and Dirk could be lifebonded?!
And how can you sleep with someone other than your lifebond?
Something about all that rubs me the wrong way.
(hide spoiler)]The book had a decent start and end but the middle was rough at best.
1.5 stars - Not horrible but this book went downhill significantly compared to Arrows of the Queen. All the confidence and self esteem that Talia built in book 1 vanished, and her self pity got out of hand. I also didn't care for who was selected for her internship (and the intimate events that followed). The way of Heralds being "loose" in relationships didn't sit well with me and Talia's uncertainty made me feel depressed. Bluntly, this book sucked as book 2 but I will finish the series for the sake of completion.
While "Arrows of the Queen" showed us how the life of a herald trainee looks like - especially of Queen's own - Arrow's Flight gave a brief example of the time of herald internship. So you can count this book as a background book on valdemar and the heralds. Talia's strugle against and with her gift just spices the story up a little, but may also be ignored. References to Marion Zimmer Bradleys Darkover Cycle are more than a bit obvious.
Initial review thoughts: I liked this book more than the first. I enjoyed how the main character was given such an enormous growth opportunity and tackled it well. However, the point of view switching paragraph by paragraph did jump out at me more. I'm sure than if this world and the characters weren't so nostalgic for me I would be harsher on this book (and the others).
Re-read 2017The second book in Talia's series. It mostly focuses on her leaving the collegium and actually being a herald though she's still in training. However, it's not as simple as the description I gave sounds, multiple things happen and even though she's out of Haven issues from the city keep affecting her. Still one of my favorite series by this author.
Mmm, I liked the first book in the series, but in this one the main character is more grown-up, and was so preoccupied with sex and with shoveling snow that it was kind of boring and pointless. I anticipated lots of magic and fighting, of which there is hardly any, so I was disappointed. It is the second book in a trilogy, I believe, so hopefully the third book will get to the goods!
A good read, but the pace was rather slow and a bit stagnant when compared to the first in the series. But do read it because the third one is better. I read all three volumes in an omnibus and this one is very much the middle section and works in that context.
I'm not up to reviews right now, so no more than a quick comment. Sorry.I did enjoy my reread, even if it took me a lot longer than I planned. I shall continue on with Tor.com and continue to revisit my teenage reads.
Back to continuing my #readinghistory reviews of favorite books. Yeah, this is a bit of a bridge book that sets up the third in the trilogy, but I loved it with all my heart back then. And yes - went straight on to book 3!
This was absolutely delightful. Fluffy and sweet and practically perfect in every way - exactly what I needed.
** 8th re-read Jan 2017
I actually enjoyed the idea of following a trainee on their first 'official' outing as a Herald - to see what a Herald's life can be like on the trail, what happens in the towns, what happens in emergencies, and so on.What I didn't enjoy was something that a lot of people did mention: the amount of 'filler' in this book that's unbelievable simply based on Lackey's established universe.(view spoiler)[First, it is hard to believe that Kris would be doubtful of Talia.
This is the second book in the Heralds of Valdemar trilogy, following “Arrows of the Queen”. Both were published in 1987. I was quite impressed by the first book, due to its choice of narrative and because it showed that even a childish plot summary could become a great story if well worked. On the first book, Talia was a young maiden living in an oppressive male society. Her destiny was to either become a priestess or be forced to marry and breed for the rest of her days. Her only refuge was he
This is the second book in the Heralds of Valdemar trilogy, following “Arrows of the Queen”.
Like in the first book, if I just tell you the plot summary, you’ll think you know everything that is going to happen in the story.
Talia is a very strong woman in the true Feminist sense, not needing to become a “fake man” to earn the respect of her fellow Heralds.
If you like fantasy books with strong female characters and stories that subvert conventions – not to mention a book that remains fresh 30 years after being published, I strongly recommend the Heralds of Valdemar series.
2.75 - 3 starsI thought this was very slow, and compared to the first book, there wasn't enough action to hold my interest.
Since Dirk is being set up as Talia's love interest, I thought all of the time spent building Kris up as her buddy with benefits pointless (he's not my favorite Herald, anyway).
I liked the pairing of Skif and Talia better if the relationship wasn't going beyond friends.
Dirk was in this installment for only a couple of pages, and since I like him better than Kris, I was disappointed with his absence.
