https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34374628-next-year-in-havana
"I promised I would never see you again.""So this is good-bye, then?""No."  Elisa Perez, daughter of a sugar baron in Cuba, had a vastly different life from her granddaughter, Marisol Ferrera.Elisa's world is of wealth, and intrigue. Tabloid newspapers and quiet, refined lives. She knows what to expect in her life - courtship, marriage and then children (undoubtedly, in that order).  We are useless birds in a gilded cage...  But soon, the Cuban rebellion against Batista impacts even her quiet,
Elisa Perez, daughter of a sugar baron in Cuba, had a vastly different life from her granddaughter, Marisol Ferrera.Elisa's world is of wealth, and intrigue.
She sure knows how to pick them!I was absolutely enthralled with the way the author wove together the two narratives - the back-and-forth between Elisa and Marisol was just perfect!In addition, the author brought Cuba to life using both the perspective of Elisa (who lived there all her life) and Marisol (who was discovering the magic all along).
Thus leaving me with a desperate need to visit it myself.Now, the book was a bit slow in the beginning but don't let that dissuade you.
I loved knowing that this was the spark that started this story and that she is connected to the narrative because her family did indeed flee Cuba after the revolution.
The past story is a love story where the political history of Cuba in the late 1950s is played out.
I have to admit how little I really knew about this complicated history from the not too distant past.
A story of family ties, love, and friendship woven into the politics and history of pre-revolutionary Cuba connecting it to the present day.
ARC provided by Berkley in exchange for an honest review.  “We carry our home with us in our hearts, laden with hope. So much hope.”  Next Year in Havana is such an amazing book that had me crying all the happy tears, all the sad tears, and all the in-between tears. I feel like this ownvoices book, that Chanel Cleeton crafted, took a piece of my heart, and I’m fine living without it, because this book was such a work of art, inside and out. And this beautiful story is told in two different timel
I feel like this ownvoices book, that Chanel Cleeton crafted, took a piece of my heart, and I’m fine living without it, because this book was such a work of art, inside and out.
Elisa has lived a more privileged life than most, because her family is wealthy, and her father works under the current president, Batista.
And one of my favorite aspects of this book was Marisol bringing up her thoughts and feelings about being biracial and feeling equal parts like an outsider and like at home while she is in Cuba.
The book starts with the Perez family leaving Cuba after the success of the revolution.
Things we take for granted, everything from seat belts to fancy pots and pans, are missing, everything is in some state of disrepair.The story alternates between the grandmother Elisa’s last year in Cuba as a nineteen year old and Marisol’s return.
“Very few can afford the luxury of being political in Cuba.” “And no one can afford the luxury of not being political in Cuba.” And, of course, it also shows you, through Marisol’s eyes, how poorly that revolution turned out and how the people are still being oppressed.
With 2 love stories.After Marisol’s grandmother passes, she has been left the daunting task of scattering her ashes over her home country, Cuba.
We read her story through love letters left behind.We are taken through the historical revolution and what it meant as a citizen to fight for Equality; never mind democracy.
And of the Cubans whom were forced into exile with only their personal belongings on their backs having to leave their homeland; and those who stayed with the hopes of change that never came to fruition.Great history; fantastic writing.
They begin to fall in love, playing a very dangerous game with their futures and maybe even their lives.
“The world as we know it has died, and I do not recognize the one that has taken its place”This history also serves as a cautionary tale in many ways, but it is also very complicated, with people making choices they believed were the right ones to make at the time, while others clung to the way of life they had established, suddenly finding themselves in exile.
Their stories parallel one another in many ways, with one being tragic and the other filled with danger- but also one filled with hope for a better outcome and maybe even a better way of life for those living in Cuba.
A familiar yet unique story, deeply evocative, and mesmerizing. I devoured this book and enjoyed every sentence.The story is told in my favorite form of narration, alternating points of view and timelines. The novel begins in the days when the Cuban revolution started and travels to the present times when Marisol visits Cuba to scatter her grandmother’s ashes on the beloved land she left behind many years ago. “We are silk and lace, and beneath them we are steel.”  The author did a great job at
I devoured this book and enjoyed every sentence.The story is told in my favorite form of narration, alternating points of view and timelines.
The author did a great job at describing Cuba, the Cuba of “then” and the Cuba of “now”, its places, the land, I felt I was there with the characters and emotionally connected to the story from the beginning.I hope this is the first in a series because there are many secondary characters with interesting backstories that I want to get to know, specially, Beatriz’ story.Overall, this was an amazing book.
Marisol sets off on a mission to uncover her grandmother’s secret past and along the way finds her own romance with Luis, a history professor at the University of Cuba and also Ana’s grandson.During flashbacks, we learn how Elisa meets her one true love and how a happily ever after for them is nearly impossible.
When we are back in the present we see that history is repeating itself with Marisol and Luis.Will Marisol have the HEA that her grandmother was unable to attain?Here are my overall ratings on the book:
Chemistry Between Hero & Heroine:
This was such an enthralling read. It was really well written and also extremely eye opening???? I learned SO MANY THINGS about Cuba that I had no idea about before and it definitely makes me want to research and learn more. Also: v steamy romances!
The history of Cuba, Batista, Che and Castro are told in bold, detailed fashion using the Perez family to add a human element and interest to the story.
This story would be my favorite part of the book, a look back at what happened to the Perez family, and a revolution that promised much be delivered little.
Said to have ended Batista's cruelty, in effect, in one quote by the author, it just replaced one dictator with another.Marisol would find love in Havana but also many other things she didn't know she was looking for.
Havana, Cuba (the author specifically mentions how many old cars and vehicles are still on the streets - most Cubans can't replace them with newer cars so they take loving care of them)El MalecónCuba's past is seen through the eyes of Elisa in 1958-59, a young woman from a wealthy upper class family who starts a secret romance with a revolutionary who fights against the corrupt regime of Fulgencio Batista, alongside Fidel Castro and Che Guevara.
In the modern timeline, we have Elisa's Cuban-American granddaughter Marisol, a journalist of "light" topics who hugely misses her recently deceased grandmother.The story begins with Elisa and her family leaving Cuba after Castro has taken control, then jumps back about a year to show how things got to that point.
The story that unfolded between the front and back covers was really some compelling historical fiction.So I'll admit I did not know much about the Cuban Revolution prior to reading this book.
One reason I love historical fiction is sometimes it gives you the opportunity to learn an important part of history and allows you to connect with characters in a way that might not happen with nonfiction books.
I thought the author did a fine job capturing the complex feelings of the characters with regards to the country they loved.
"After the death of her beloved Grandmother, a Cuban-American woman travels to Havan where she discovered the roots of her identify and unearths a family secret hidden since the revolution." This is a romance style novel but it does give a little insight into Cuban history and the revolution which is insightful and interesting, enough information to wet my appetite and kept me interested throughout the story.
The author explores the themes of family, love, loss and sacrifices and while I enjoyed the book I did find it a little repetitive and quite a bit forced in places and I found the ending a little too contrived.
Overall an easy read, nice sense of time and place and a book that many historical fiction readers will enjoy.
4 Stars.Family, Heartache, History, Life, Loss and Love.
This is the story of “Next Year in Havana” by Chanel Cleeton.
When things go awry, Elisa and her family have no choice but to escape to Miami, never to return.Miami, 2017: Elisa’s last wish was to have her ashes spread in Havana, by her granddaughter, Marisol.
There, Marisol learns of Elisa’s past, through letters Elisa wrote to Pablo and Marisol discovers that her grandmother had a life she knew nothing about.
In this novel, Chanel Cleeton expertly intertwines a story about family, love and loss with historical fiction.
I am not a huge fan of historical fiction, but I loved this book. Chanel Cleeton is a new to me author, and I'm so happy I took a chance on this book. It is beautifully written, and I feel like I learned so much while reading it. This story goes back in forth between two characters and two times. Some chapters are in the present, from our heroine Marisol's pov. The others are from the past, 1958 to be exact. They are from Marisol's late Grandmother, Elisa's pov. It's a few months after Elisa's
They are from Marisol's late Grandmother, Elisa's pov.
I loved discovering all these things along with Marisol, and hearing about them through Elisa's voice.
While in Cuba, Marisol learns so much about her heritage, her family, and about love.
This story was written in a way I felt like I was in Cuba experiencing new things, seeing new sights, and tasting the rice and beans.
Cleeton has a descriptive way of writing that makes you feel like you're there, where the story takes place.
I loved how this story came together at the end, and I thought this was a great read.
Both story lines are equally compelling, and Chanel Cleeton artfully incorporates both the beauty and history of Cuba into her tale about courage in the face of family and loss.
Next Year in Havana stands out because the author effectively integrates a significant amount of Cuban history while crafting a beautiful tale of family, love, and enduring relationships.
I struggled a bit with the resolution of the present day story line but am not sure that there was any other way for it to end; it certainly did not impact my view of the book.
Boy, 2018 has been epic so far... My heart is full. Full with love for the characters of this book. With shame about my ignorance of the danger and problems Cuban people still face on a daily basis. Admiration for their bravery and pride. Affection for their good hearts. Sadness for their heartbreak. I struggle to get a grip on my emotions as I sit here and write my review. How long will we be gone? When will we return? Which version of Cuba will greet us when we do? Marisol's exiled grandmother
Marisol's exiled grandmother's last wish was for her remains to return to the home of her heart, Cuba, one of the priceless gems in the Caribbean Sea. Marisol only knows her country from stories her grandmother Elisa told her, who raised her and who she was closest to.
Together they uncover secrets only a few people apart from Elisa knew about.Two timelines follow alternating Elisa and Pablo as well as Marisol and Luis.
There are parallels between Elisa's love for Pablo and Marisol's for Luis.
Marisol and Elisa share the same kindness, brave heart, curiosity and love for their country.
I have mixed feelings on this one.
I loved parts & I disliked others.
I loved Elise’s story...
the struggles she faced in a changing Cuba were heartbreaking.
I had a vague knowledge of Cuba’s tumultuous past & present, so I really found that part very interesting.
At the same time, I enjoyed learning more about Cuba’s struggles it felt over done in Marisol’s story.
The sentiments became very repetitive which made me lose interest & start skimming.
It seemed forced and tried too hard to mirror Elise’s story.
All-in-all not a bad story overall.
I look forward to reading more novels about Cuba.
And man oh man am I so glad I did because I loved this story.Next Year in Havana is told in present day by Marisol, a young woman grieving her recently deceased grandmother, Elisa, and goes to Cuba to spread her ashes.
Reading this book I felt I learned a lot about the country and its history, its present day happenings as well.
They feel powerless, and yet do everything they can for the people they love.Reading this book I felt as if I was transported to Cuba.
I’ll try to wrap this up and not just keep gushing, but the last thing I wanted to say is that, even though it feels like the least important aspect of the story by far, I wholeheartedly enjoyed the blossoming romance in Marisol’s chapters, and found myself on the edge of my seat, knowing that there was no easy answer to her falling in love with a Cuban revolutionary like her grandmother before her.
Ultimately, all I can say is that I recommend this book so very highly, whether you enjoy historical fiction, sweet love stories, political commentary, or any mixture of the above.
It turns out I was right to give this one a chance, as the romance aspect actually took a backseat to the history and also family dynamics, turning this into a wonderfully written work of historical fiction rather than a run-of-the-mill romance trope.Alternating between two timelines, the story is narrated first by Elisa Perez in the late 1950s, as Cuba is in the midst of a revolution led by Fidel Castro against president Batista, and then later by Elisa’s granddaughter Marisol Ferrara, nearly 60 years later, as she travels to Cuba for the first time to fulfill her grandmother’s dying wish for her ashes to be scattered in the country that always had a special place in her heart.
Enjoyed it!  A love story that spans generations... The story alternates between Havana in 1958 and Miami in 2017.Elisa and the Perez sisters were daughters of a wealthy Cuban sugar baron and were living a luxurious life in Havana. They were shielded from the horrors of the revolution going on as Fidel Castro fought the dictator, Batista for control. At least for awhile, until they had to  flee.  Fast forward to 2017..... Elisa's granddaughter, Marisol will return to Cuba to spread her ashes in
A love story that spans generations...
The story alternates between Havana in 1958 and Miami in 2017.Elisa and the Perez sisters were daughters of a wealthy Cuban sugar baron and were living a luxurious life in Havana.
Elisa's granddaughter, Marisol will return to Cuba to spread her ashes in her beloved homeland.
She learns much more than she bargained for when she arrives.She is confronted with the question of whether her grandmother was in love with a 
chaos they surely felt with the revolution taking over their lives.Thanks to Berkley for sending me a copy to read/review.
4.5 Stars!!A very good read.
Marisol, granddaughter of Elisa, fueled by a desire to bring her grandmother's ashes back to Cuba, returns to a land that had been run by the dictator, Castro.
She witnesses the land that her grandmother and others so loved and hoped one day to return to.
While Elisa's love is destined to be left on the island when she and her family leave, Marisol's seems to be able to flourish baring the problems which many experienced trying to escape the dictatorship of Castro even after his death.Learning a lot about the Cuban people and their love of their country, as well as the lack of freedom in their lives, this book enabled me to see well how freedom is a gift, a prize given to us, not ever to be taken for granted.
LIVE AMAZON http://amzn.to/2E4hN254,5-5 Beautiful stars "At the end of the day the only thing you have left is what you stand for." I'm speechless, such a beautiful and powerful story!I have no words, I'm still processing what I just read!I have read and loved almost all Chanel's books but nothing is like that!This was amazing!Next Year in Havana is an emotional,intense, heartbreaking and heartwarming story!Next Year in Havana follows two different timelines.
The writing is so beautiful and flawless, the story is poignant and the characters amazing!I was fascinated by the history in this one, it makes me want to travel in this place!This is a must read!If you are looking for a brilliant story with history,romance and heartbreaking moments this is perfect for you!!
And the history of Cuba is also very interesting so guess my delight to get the chance of reading a historical fiction book set in Cuba.Next year in Havana has a dual storyline, with one story taking place in 1958 when Batista was driven from the country and Castro took control of the country and you either stayed and took your chance with the new government or you left like the Perez family did in this book.
I guarantee if you are looking for some great love stories, then you don't need to look any further!Next Year in Havana is a fantastic book with two equally interesting storylines.
What Marisol finds inside the box is upsetting and reveals something no one ever knew or perhaps something Elisa never told anyone.Marisol is determined to find out more, but is warned about the danger of looking into someone's past.Ms. Chantell has a mesmerizing effect on you as you read about the adventures and lives of the Perez girls and of living in Cuba then and now.Her descriptions of the scenery, the kitchens, the food, and simply everything is detailed, beautiful, and exquisite.Let’s not forget that absolutely gorgeous cover, and remember that no book can be complete without a little bit of love and romance.The book was a lesson in the history of Cuba and its people.
“Next Year in Havana”  is one of those historical fiction stories that will immediately take you back in time to experience EVERYTHING all over again. Pain, loss, fear, anguish, and joy for the unknown is what will keep you wanting to know more. Told from dual pov’s between 1958 and 2017 from two family members, this was the story of one family’s turmoil and heartbreak and how they survived life after being exiled from Cuba. Now that decades have passed, one granddaughter is making it her mi
Told from dual pov’s between 1958 and 2017 from two family members, this was the story of one family’s turmoil and heartbreak and how they survived life after being exiled from Cuba.
It was a tragedy in a sense and at times it all became too much while reading this but then I thought to myself, if I’m reading a story like this, can you imagine what it was like to LIVE through it?
“Loyalty is a complicated thing-where does family fit in the hierarchy?Above or below country?
From every shocking moment to the touch of forbidden love, and the poignant ending, I think this story will stay with you.
Marisol Ferrara was raised by her late grandmother, Elisa, who immigrated from Cuba in the 1950’s.
Marisol arrives in Cuba and sets out to learn all that she can about her grandmother’s family.
She begins to trace Elisa’s life with help from her grandmother’s childhood friend.
Ana gives her a box containing her grandmother's letters and this provides most of the clues to Elisa’s past.
These include secret love letters detailing her teenage romance with a young revolutionary.
Marisol begins to appreciate the amazing life her grandmother lived and the sacrifices her family made to keep them together.
Each shares their view on Cuba as it was and is today, their stories shaping Marisol and bringing her even closer to her grandmother and to the country that feels like home."It's raucous and beautiful, and more than anything, I want to belong here, want this city to become a part of me."Next Year in Havana was such a powerful story for me, with Cuba coming to life with Chanel Cleeton's imagery and the detail given to the injustices of life there so evocative.
