https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94654.Masochism
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب همانطور که از عنوانش پیداست، به موضوعِ <مازوخیسم> و یا <مازوشیسم> پرداخته استعزیزانم، <مازوشیسم> و یا همان <شهوتِ خودآزاری>، نوعی از [آزار دوستی] است و اصل این واژه بر گرفته از نامِ <لئوپولد ساچر مازوخ> نویسندهٔ آلمانی-اتریشی، میباشد که در قرنِ نوزدهم میزیست و در آثار و نوشته هایش زنانی را توصیف میکرد که در هنگامِ سکس و آمیزش جنسی، خواهانِ خشونت و آزار دیدن بودندهمانطور که میدانید سادیست ها از آزار رساندن لذت میبرند، ولی مازوشیست ها از آزار
‎دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب همانطور که از عنوانش پیداست، به موضوعِ <مازوخیسم> و یا <مازوشیسم> پرداخته است‎عزیزانم، <مازوشیسم> و یا همان <شهوتِ خودآزاری>، نوعی از [آزار دوستی] است و اصل این واژه بر گرفته از نامِ <لئوپولد ساچر مازوخ> نویسندهٔ آلمانی-اتریشی، میباشد که در قرنِ نوزدهم میزیست و در آثار و نوشته هایش زنانی را توصیف میکرد که در هنگامِ سکس و آمیزش جنسی، خواهانِ خشونت و آزار دیدن بودند‎همانطور که میدانید سادیست ها از آزار رساندن لذت میبرند، ولی مازوشیست ها از آزار دیدن لذت میبرند ‎از دیدگاهِ <ادوارد گلوورد> مازوشیست ها همان کسانی هستند که از کودکی مبتلا به سادیست بودند ولی از آنجایی که دچار محدودیت هایِ طبیعی و اجتماعی بوده اند، نتوانستند فرصتِ چندانی برایِ ارضا <سادیسم> خویش پیدا کنند، لذا <سادیسم> را از خارج به داخل آورده و تبدیل به <مازوشیسم> میکنند...
Aww, I'd forgotten all about this book. Many moons ago, I was going to write my senior thesis on, roughly, "Sadism and Masochism in the Stories of Franz Kafka," with this book as one of my primary sources. I inhaled this book (and several others), wrote about 30 pages, consulted with the ancient visiting Kafka scholar whose class I'd been taking, wrote another dozen pages, then realized I'd rather put out my own eyes than write any more on this vaguely creepy topic. I did a creative thesis instead. (Looking back, maybe I was kind of a wimp.)
Oh no, here comes Badiou and Zizek with their pitchforks!" But I wasn't that far off in my facetiousness: Deleuze is making an argument for what perverse behavior and counter-intuitive thinking can tell us about our politics.
Unlike Tartt quoting it optimistically the words actually come from a Nietzsche entry labeled Pessimism in Art. This friend, brilliant as ever, describes for us the masochism others receive from novel reading she is unwilling to allow herself, "The increasing delay in the plot: those narrative deferments which deliberate teasings I'll never get used to - just tell them about your dead phone Theo!
Very Poor psychoanalysis mostly stemming from false assumptions and fallacies of the human sexuality. Deleuze tries REALLY HARD to prove that Sadism and Masochism are COMPLETELY different and in no way compliment each other; and although I aggree with very fundamental differences in Masochism and Sadism, mostly with Masoch's incorporation of aesthetics and contractual fantasies and Sade's abolishment of aesthetics through repetitive institutionalized tyranny, most of the essay is built on false premises that just do not hold.

Deleuze is at least correct that masochism (and sadism) must not be confined to the hackneyed shades of a "pleasure-in-pain" continuum.
Yet his overweening effort to categorically separate what masochism IS from what sadism IS and ne'er shall the twain meet is unconvincing, forced and a bit sloppy.
The clinical riddle of masochism proper is not entirely separate from questions of mundane submissiveness and passivity, but they ought not be conflated.
I can't say that in future inquiries I'll likely be adducing Masoch as a model of fulfilling intimacy or Deleuze as a satisfying theoretical touchstone.
I enjoy Deleuze's literary approach to Freud and Masoch, though I do think that his analysis is not a replacement for case studies.
The only thing I felt was lacking is this: that in 'Difference and Repetition' irony and repetition are 'of the heart,' but in the masochistic fantasy they are said to reflect an underlying coldness.
Obviously, coldness is a theme of 'Venus', but if there is any 'heart' in masochistic fantasy, it is in transgressive irony and in the excessive sincerity which Wanda identifies in Masoch.
It is only intense sincerity which would lead Masoch to an obsessive fear directed towards the limits of the social contract.
Cain and Christ bear the same mark, which leads to the crucifixion of Man ‘who knows no sexual love, no property, no fatherland, no cause, no work.’ (12) So, it’s not just about butthole pleasures, and the rusty trombone, and the dirty Sanchez, and the Cincinnati bowtie, and the pussy juice cocktail.Sacher-Masoch is not to be “transposed” with de Sade, with “the instincts reversed,” some sort of bogus “unity of opposites,” an “unfair assumption of complementarity and dialectical unity” (13).
Deleuze's section of this book is pretty good - he develops his theory that sadism and masochism are not two sides of the same coin, but separate pathologies - er, separate technologies of subversion. Sacher-Masoch's prose is beyond all help, however; it's a shame that something so hot in theory is so boring in practice, but then Deleuze, reputed to be among the most vanilla of French theorists in his own personal life, must appreciate that.
I really loved (is that the right word?) Venus in Furs. I was captivated by it. I read it in one sitting and need to read it again.Deleuze is one of those French guys I probably should have read in grad school, but didn't. He's going to explore whether sadism and masochism are actually two sides of the same condition/phenomenon/psychological predisposition... I bet they're not.
A bookseller at Spoonbill and Whatever in Williamsburg told me that he didn't find Deleuze to be a "systematic thinker." Psshh!! Read this and it will get you thinking (rhizomatously) about the world in terms of sadistic and masochistic situations. Very systematic, indeed.
i guess i'm not quite sure what to make of this book; it just doesn't seem like any of deleuze's other work.
not very sexy
inappropriate enjoyment
Deleuze does his usual goddamn thing: there is a dualism or unity that he wants to break apart (sadomasochism, or sadism vs masochism, as opposed to, erm, sadism and masochism), there is a neglected thinker he wants to give their just due (Masoch), he pulls in all sorts of different subjects (psychoanalysis, yes, but also politics, aesthetics, and Kant), he does so in a pretty readable manner (in sharp distinction to his original philosophical works), and he throws out some ideas that are possibly correct, maybe relatable to your life (long-distance relationships are a positively perverse form of masochistic suspension, by the way), and certainly interesting.
The intersection of masochism and democracy presupposes, of course, the enforcement of the sexual field into politics.* Deleuze’s structuralism, and Coldness and Cruelty is most certainly “structural” in several senses of the word, mainly because of its insistence on the formal analysis of psychic phenomena and its adherence to the logic of the sign provides readers with a detailed point of intersection of these two ‘spheres’ without collapsing the ‘sphere’ of politics into that of sexuality or vice versa.
In this book, which is written in a both poetic and easy way, the author does a literary critic of Sacher-Masoch works but he also goes much further , analyzing subjects...more Deleuze is by far one of the most brilliant scholar and philosopher of his time.
In this last topic, he brings some very interesting new theories and thesis, breaking down with traditional Freudian and Krafft-ebingian theories (special positive arguments for the 'denegation-suspense' hypothesis, the 'women-executioner' and the 'non unity/similarity principle' ).
A must read for anyone interested in good literary criticism
You may need to fill in some dots yourself; that's fun, to a degree.While the subject is cool, sexy, and provocative, the execution is somewhat tame - as fitting the time period in which the book was written.
It makes the book much more subversive in between the lines.The climax, while contrived and somewhat predictable, is stunning in its debasement.Read Deleuze's section on Coldness and Cruelty, which outlines the conditions for masochism and is an absolute gem.
It makes Sacher-Masoch's story that much better.
More interestingly is how S/M fits in with all the laws, contracts, and regulations that make up everyday life.
A great critical work that gives very careful and well thought-out analysis of Sade and Sacher-Masoch themselves, who, especially Sacher-Masoch, too often get left out of literature on the concepts that they inspired.
Deleuze succeeds in showing that sadism and masochism are not symmetrical concepts that can be found in the same person, but are very specific concepts that exist in entirely different worlds.
He also shows the emancipatory potential of each, favoring masochism's contracts over sadism's institutions.
In terms of clinical analysis of sadism and masochism, I still prefer Lacan, but this is a great critical contribution.
**Only for Venus in Furs, since I haven't read enough De Sade to read the Deleuze yet This story is incredibly thoughtful and intelligent--more philosophy than erotica. It is always incredible to read a genre-starter (maybe there is a better word for it?) because there is no implied and/or assumed prior knowledge. It is completely fresh; not bending itself to adhere to anything but itself. I think what is discussed in this novel can be applied to anyone's relationship in terms of power, honesty, purity and love/obsession.
Liked it. I was mainly interested in Deleuze explaining de Sade, and realize now thatit would have been better for me to have picked up the famous book on de Sade writtenby Pierre Klossowski. This book is Deleuze argumenting against sadomachocism as a clinical term, something he does rather successfully imo, but all the while using Freudian terms that I suspect are somewhat outdated. One of the easier books Deleuze has written, the chapter on the Death drive makesthe whole book worth reading by itself. Riveting and of course at times more thena little terrifying.
I'm not completely familiar with Deleuze's thoughts. Yet I find both "subject of this book" and "the method of Deleuze proceeding in that subject" quite fascinating. It borders some accurate and illuminating facts about masochism and its relation with other things (including sadism, and also other subjects like morals and politics and so on). There is a translation of this book in Persian, translated by "شهریار وقفی پور" as "سردی و سبعیت". I also find this translation good(however not completely accurate as it is important for a philosophical work in this scale)
Read at least part of this for my critical theory/dead white men class at Macalester senior year and thought it would be interesting to take another look at.Honestly, without the help of a prof, Deleuze's section was pretty over my head, even with the notes I'd already written in the margins. I do not have the prerequisite knowledge of philosophy and psychoanalysis to really understand most of what he's arguing here.However, I highly enjoyed Sacher-Masoch's prose. I just wish I'd understood the analysis better.
I'm not sure why the Deleuze essay is first - i think it's better to read the novel first and then the essay. deleuze's project ( one of them ) is to decouple the m from the s and to look at the potential for both deviations from the freudian/lacanian notion of m and to tease the subversive properties of m. not totally convinced, but that doesn't mean it's not very cool. the novel is actually pretty good and a quick quick read.
So far, really exciting perspective on Sade vs. Sacher-Masoch. Enjoyable to see someone dissect Masochism as a totally separate impulse completely from Sadism, rather than just it's opposite or complement, since I totally agree. Maybe not everyone would be comfortable with Deleuze's characterization of sadists as mathematician-like and machinistic and masochists as more purely engaged in education and devotion, but I like it!
"This provocative work places von Sacher-Masoch's classic 1870 novel Venus in Furs next to Deleuze's essay arguing that popular assumptions beginning with Freud have effectively obscured the unique power of von Sacher-Masoch's eroticism as well as the true nature of what might be called a masochist 'order.'"—Keith Thompson, Utne Reader
I love philosophy and psychoanalysis. Deleuze did a great job on analysing and presenting sadism and masochism in a clear and addressable way to demystifies the misnomer of sadomachoism. Thought-provoking, stimulating and at times humorous.Venus in Fur was disrobed, revealing her lovely full breasts!
I'm rating the Deleuze and Masoch separately. One, because I want to read 100 books this year and I think counting these as two separate books is fair. And also because I liked the Deleuze so much more than the Masoch.
oy vey.i need another decade to gather the precursory requirements to really absorb this.and now i'm using the word 'precursory'? the 11 point summation at the end of "Coldness" is a very, very helpful one.
The story of my past life.
