https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14899.Mormon_Country
Stegner has one section of the book that deals exclusively with the Mormons and a second section that focuses in on the "Gentiles", which the name the Mormons give to non-Mormons.This is the fourth book I've read in recent months dealing with Mormonism (others: Jon Krakauer's "Under the Banner of Heaven", Jack Earley's "Prophet of Death", and Fawn Brodie's excellent biography of Joseph Smith, "No Man Knows My History").
I decided to read this book because it was written by Wallace Stegner and because it seemed to me to be a less sensaionalistic and lurid account of Mormon life (both Banner of Heaven and Prophet of Death dealt with Mormonism and violent crime).I was not dissapointed, although I can't say that I was particularly impressed, either.This book takes the form of 28 little stories.
I have no idea whether such small Mormon towns still exist, in these days of internet and atomization, but if they do, they provide a model for what we should aspire to as a society.The physical landscape is a major player in this book.
It is strange to think, sometimes, that the 1930s are now nearly a hundred years ago, and of all that has passed since then.One lesson of this book is that Mormon community, which has much in common with Rod Dreher’s famous “Benedict Option,” has costs as well as benefits.
The book is a collection of mostly unrelated historical topics which help us to understand "Mormon Country", which can be loosely defined as Utah plus the parts of surrounding states that border it.
The topics, divided into those about Mormons and those about non-Mormons, consisted of some I knew nothing about and others I had discovered before, but all the stories were told in an entertaining way that made them a joy to read.
As I travel around the state in the future, I think I will take Mormon Country along and share the relevant chapters with my family.
Stegner spent a lot of time in Utah during his formative years, and his grasp of Mormon culture and idiosyncrasies while still respecting their faith is, frankly, refreshing.
Stegner's descriptions of the wild places of the Wasatch Mountains and south-eastern Utah's Red Rock Country made me long desperately for home.
Stegner's predictions for Utah have almost all came true, which was really interesting to read about.
This book is both an excellent reference guide to all things Desseret (everything from Brigham's alphabet to the gathering of Zion, with plenty in between on dinosaurs, resurrection cults, and lost persons) as well as a collection of masterful essays.
Not until my uncle gave me Mormon Country as a present did I realize what a rich land of symbols I had been living in.
Any number of overlooked details of basin existance suddenly sprung to life with renewed importance as I pieced through these essays.
Mormon Country is a kind of rubric for deciphering how Utah has become such a religiously significant state, and further why it appears to outsiders to still be a cultural backwater.
I seriously loved this book!Originally published in 1942 this is a short but fairly comprehensive history of Utah and Mormons as viewed from an outsider.
Mr. Stegner was never a Mormon and lived in Utah for a short time.As a Mormon I found this little history to be, to be best of my knowledge, accurate.
He was not overly critical and certainly I've heard worse about Utah and Mormons in recent years.Given the time it was written he had access to what was then fairly current history, and if not odd certainly unique.
And by default that includes the religion I also love.
Despite my antipathy to the modern Mormon Church, I have a strong urge to know and understand where my ancestors came from, the land they settled, and why they became Saints.
The book "Mormon Country" is a beautifully written and a fair and well-balanced portrayal of the majestic land my ancestors settled in the 19th Century.
The contemporary Mormon Church repels me, but I find 19th and early 20th Century LDS history to be oddly compelling.
This book helped me get a better idea of the land and the people who settled in "Mormon Country".
I loved reading this.
Wallace Stegner who taught Wendell Berry, Ken Kesey, Sandra Day O'Connor, Edward Abbey and others writes about the land and people of Mormon Country (the area settled by my ancestors which includes Utah {obviously} and parts of Wyoming, New Mexico, Idaho, Nevada, California and Arizona, with a super interesting cameo from Hawaii).
I've heard stories of many of the books topics (like the 3 Nephites wandering the earth until the second coming), but Stegner colored them up quite well and wrote about many things that were new to me (like the "god-king" of Hawaii with his letter of recommendation from Brigham Young).
This is a love letter to the last great wilderness in the western world and its peculiar people.
Loved this book about western Mormon culture, history, and landscape, written by a non-Mormon author. This is the third book I've read by Wallace Stegner and I've loved them all. My kind of book.
This is a quick reading, interesting, and nuanced history of the Saints and sinners (not disparate groups, Stegner clearly shows) that settled the Intermountain West.
This is a book of essays about the land and people of "Mormon Country," today known more commonly as the intermountain west.
As a non-LDS resident of Utah, Stegner brings an affectionate outsider's perspective to the unique and often quirky character of the small towns originally settled by the Mormon pioneers.
Some of the essays focus on the people and communities, some focus on the land, and some even focus on the "Gentile" (non-LDS) communities and people.
It was really interesting to read a non-LDS perspective on some of the historical events that happened in Utah's early history.
I've read some of Wallace Stegner's novels and have enjoyed his writing style, so picked up this book with two ends in mind: 1) I wanted to read what was supposedly the first positive approach to the Mormons written by a non-Mormon, and 2) I wanted to find that quote occasionally referenced in General Conference about how the Mormon pioneers were stalwart, but the Mormon women were amazing.
My first end was successful.
By and large, Stegner achieves fairness.
The second end I completely failed in.
I can't find that quote anywhere.
Maybe he wrote another book about the Mormons?
If you are at all curious about the TRUE history of the Mormons in the West,then this is the book for you!!!As always, Stegner tells a masterful tale, about how/why the Mormons chose this horrid, forbidding land. And yet, if you are hoping for a tale based on a particular suite of characters, you will be disappointed. You must be willing to do a certain amount of wandering from one topic to the next-- yet even so, Stegner does this seamlessly. I would've devoured this book already, but I personally needed a break from non-fiction.
Mormon Country was referred to often during my high school psychology class and again in a sociology class at the "U", my appetite was whetted, and the book was devoured. I learned much about my Mormon culture and became a devotee of Wallace Stegner---who played tennis on the courts of Victory Playground while I was going down the slippery-slide, taught at the U of U, and grew-up in the Liberty Park area.
Mormon Country is not history, per se. It's not literature either. I think it pre-dated the 'creative non-fiction' title that seems so popular now. It reads like a series of short stories and it happens to be about a group of people and a landscape that I care deeply about. I loved the breadth of the writing if not the depth. I also loved the hearty assessment of a people from an outsider, but without the anger or resentment that comes from being an 'other.'
This book is about the place I call home and the people that I know. I read it when I was living far from Mormon Country and it made me cry with with homesickness. He describes the land, the people, and the culture of this place beautifully. The next time I am home I will "borrow" this book from mom so I can read it whenever I get homesick.
I read this book during a period when I was fascinated with Mormonism. It's a light, fun read about Utah and the Mormons who live there, written in episodic style at a very early stage in Stegner's career.
It changed the way that I saw the physical world around me and my connection to the generations that came before me in a way that mustered respect for the work they put into making my existence more than just survivable--a luxury they did not have.Mormon Country by Wallace Stegner feels like a spin-off novel from Men to Match My Mountains.
Has anyone seen either of them in the same room at the same time?Regardless, Mormon Country is a fairly just look at the brutal landscape of the intermountain west and the only kind of religious people who would stand a chance at domesticating it in such an effective manner.
Wallace Stegner is my favorite writer. I am always so proud that he grew up in my neighborhood, attended East High, graduated from the University of Utah, and won the Pulitzer Prize. This book was written in 1942 (I picked it up at the gift shop in Snow Canyon), so this is the old Utah where I grew up and I love these old, quirky stories. But Wallace Stegner also has some insight into the future, and it does ring true.
Vignettes about the West. Touching and nostalgic.
OMG, I have read 2 Five Star books in one month! Life is good.
Mormon Country is not really a history of Utah, the Mormon Church, or its people, but more of a compendium of Mormon cultural uniqueness, written from a historical viewpoint.
The historical perspective, which Stegner was so qualified to render, is also to be appreciated.The series of 28 essays are arranged in two parts.
While I enjoyed and acknowledge his superior writing skill and superb story telling, I found something lacking in the approach taken in Mormon Country.
I recommend this book to those interested in a deeper understanding of historical Mormon culture.
Ever inquisitive and observant, his book Mormon Country, published in 1942 when Stegner was in his 33rd year, is a remarkable account of the Mormon people and their settlement of the Great Basin.
The book is really an assortment of historical vignettes, each capturing a glimpse of "Mormon Country" (the settlement of the Great Basin) from the pioneers' entrance into the Salt Lake Valley though a description of a Tuesday night MIA gathering in 1942 (in a small outpost Mormon town) of M-Men and Gleaners, the Explorers and Boy Scouts, and of course the Bee-Hive (sic) girls, together with the adults and children who assemble to see one of their own (a young 19 year old male) off on his two and one-half year mission to Brazil.
It's funny, he starts with a fictional chapter called 'Meet me at the Ward House', which makes you think that the book is going to be mainly a fictional exercise in exploring Mormon country, but that's the only fictional part of the book, the rest consists of story-telling style non-fictional anecdotes about the Great Basin area.
That's what Stegner means by Mormon country: south Idaho, all of Utah, west Colorado, north Arizona, most of Nevada.
I would recommend it highly to anyone who is going to travel in those Great Basin states and wants to read about the area and its history.
Some of the stories are downright wonderful from a literary perspective, my favorite being "Mormon Trees." Stegner treats all the subjects a cultural outsider would expect in a book about Mormons--polygamy, Mountain Meadows, the Utah War, the migration--but he also throws in the unexpected--the Deseret alphabet, Orderville, an MIA dance, and a great chapter on folklore featuring the endlessly beloved J.
I loved some of the stories in the second half (which cover such Mormon Country icons as the Wild Bunch, John Wesley Powell, and Everett Ruess), and have concluded that I think the book would have functioned better as a whole if Stegner had worked them into the rest of the text rather than separating them out.
He is one of the best writers you will ever read.
He recounts non-fiction better than most novelists tell fiction.
The subject of this book is Mormon Country – all of the places that Mormons settled, and the people who inhabit them, including non-Mormons.
(The first 230ish pages are about Mormons, the last 110 pages are about non-Mormons.) This is about more than just Utah.
For example, the chapter about Hawaii tells the story of the Mormon elder that transformed his proselyting mission into a personal kingdom, using the money he took from the natives to start a newspaper and become one of the most important men in Hawaii.
I really enjoyed this informed and respectful outsider's view of Mormon culture.
Stegner's writing style has a flow that other non-fiction books lack.
The vivid image of Lombardy Poplar-lined rural settlements across “Mormon Country” conjures up nostalgia.In addition to the central figures, Stegner discusses the significance of contributions from Jim Bridger, John Wesley Powell, Butch Cassidy and J.
He captures the essence of the culture by incorporating the history and context of the Deseret Alphabet, Willie & Martin Handcart Companies, Mountain Meadows, United Order, Hole in the Rock, Bingham, and Short Creek.
Reading this book brought a sense of pride and appreciation towards my Mormon ancestors.
A fine history of Utah and surrounding environs as it was settled by Mormons in the 19th century.
Written in the early forties, it offers a sympathetic reading of the time by a man who had lived among the state's Mormon population for many years, admired much about their culture, but remained an outsider willing to offer criticisms that were thoughtful without ever coming across as attacks.
Probably the first fair minded account to be written on the topic by a non-Mormon.
Stegner lived at a time when the final vestiges of the Mormon Migration were still within living memory.
Straddling literature and history it paints a vivid picture of a group and a place living on the edge of American society.
Stegner himself admitted that Mormon Country was limited, saying it was written "out of sheer homesickness for the West." And perhaps that is why it appeals so much to me, a Westerner living far from home.
Whatever it is, I keep re-reading passages and would recommend it to anyone who loves Stegner, or who loves the West, or who is willing to see past the book's limitations as a comprehensive history for the sense of place it inspires.
I'm trying to read all everything written by Wallace Stegner, so though "Mormon Country" wasn't the first of his books on my list I went ahead and read it when I found it at the library where I work.
But if you read this thinking that you're getting an unbiased view of "Mormon Country" you're going to be disappointed.
Stegner is occasionally flattering of Mormon ways, but more often he's pretty condescending of church members and church organization.
Granted, to an outsider, Mormon ways are peculiar.
Written in the 1940s, the church was ~ 100 years old when he wrote the book.
