https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/770038.Is_Your_Mama_a_Llama_
Little Lloyd tries to guess what kind of animal everyone’s mama really is:“Is your mama a llama?”So he discovers that the mothers of his friends are: bat, swan, cow, seal, kangaroo and of course a llama.The first time you read it with your child, she/he probably try to guess the name of the animal's mother. It will be like a game. The second time you read it, she/he will probably remember :)Cute, little book with rhymes. Perfect for spelling and for beginners in reading. Rhythmical riddles and beautiful simple images.
Been reading this almost nightly to my boy. Some solid rhyming in this book and interesting animals, although the protagonist is a bit naive.
This reminds me (and Julia by the way) an awful lot of the Anna Dewdney books.
Or, I should say that Dewdney's books remind me an awful lot of this book because I *think* this came first.
Julia's taken to, on and off, calling me her llama mama and we both get a kick out of that.
Each friend comes back with a response which rhymes which is then followed by the little llama seeing the light and rhyming with whatever the friends mama is.
Julia liked the story, she liked the "baby llama" but she did not like the bat.
This is a cute short story. Love the rhymes and illustrations :)
Pictures are darling. The rhyme in Spanish is a bit forced because of the stress, but for the most part, it still works.
Classic read! Glad I can now read it to my son
The first thing that really caught my eye was the fact that she wrote the book to have the rhyme on the first two pages and then the answer to what that particular animals mama was is on the next page.
Children love to guess and I know that this is a grasping aspect of the book for them.
The book is an awesome way to get children used to using rhyming words as well as allowing them to use their critical thinking skills and guess what animal is on the next page.
I myself really enjoyed reading the rhyming words and about all the different animals so I know that the children would probably feel the same way.
This is a great story for young readers to listen to and to read themselves. It is full of fun rhyming riddles. This is a classic. Lloyd the baby llama meets a different animal on every page; Lloyd asks them, “Is your mama a llama?” The rhyming riddles the animals give Lloyd help him to guess what kind of animal everyone’s mama really is. When he asks his friend Llyn the llama his question he finally gets the answer he has been waiting to hear. Uses for Is Your Mama a Llama?: (Read-Aloud Compreh
While the story is being read encourage the children to supply the rhyming word that tells the correct animal answer.2.
Hand out paper animal puppets to seven different students; tell them that you are going to read the story again.
The student who is holding the baby Llama puppet will stand beside the teacher as the story is being read.
As the hint is given the student who is holding the correct animal will stand up and say their animal’s name and then join the student holding the baby llama puppet.3.
The first time this book came on my radar was when Patrica Arquette was reading it to her daughter on the show Medium.
It had such a fun rythm to it that I vowed to look for it the next time I was in a bookstore.
This book sits on my bedside table and I frequently read it to Bella when she is either falling asleep or just waking up.
I only read it to her when she is sleepy because she loves turning the pages and I'm afraid she will rip them.
A young llama asks its friends whether or not their mamas are llamas, leading to a discussion of different animal characteristics.The images are simple and saturated with color.
Still, the art is detailed enough that the differences in animal types are easy to distinguish.The poetry is trite but catchy, and while the overall theme could be useful in teaching young children about different kinds of animals, as a book about parents and children, it’s a bit problematic, assuming that all children resemble their parents.
My guess is that there are plenty of other, better written and illustrated books out there which both teach these concepts and are entertaining.
Lo loved this book. She squealed in delight every time she could guess the animal the clues were given for. She loves books that rhyme and are a little silly- so this one was just perfect for her. Illustrations were super duper cute. Overall a lovely read! We will surely read this a few more times before it goes back to the library, and maybe even look out for our own copy, if she enjoys it consistently after the 'newness' of the book fades
"Is Your Mama a Llama?" is a very good book to read to children. It is an excellent form for predictability and pattern. The book allows student to guess what kind of animal is being surprised. They are learning about new animals, they may never have heard of before. Also, the pictures in this book portray the story really well and are quite beautiful illustrations. I would definitely read this book in my classroom.
Both of my kids loved this fun rhyming book when they were toddlers and preschoolers, and I've also used it for preschool storytimes. Kellogg's pictures are great, as usual. My older son started calling me "Llama" when he was 8 or 9, which I love!
A predictable book that I immediately decided to read at the next storytime. Kids are going to love this, especially on subsequent reads.
A young llama asks his friends if their mamas are llamas and finds out, in rhyme, that their mothers are other types of animals.
This is my 16 mo old's FAVORITE book. She has me read it over and over every day. Wish this was a series!
This one makes Alistair smile.
http://www.hornbookguide.com.ezaccess...Professional Recommendation/Review #2: Seth Berg, Children’s Literature, CLCD: A young llama asks all of his friends about their mothers in this entertaining family book.
http://www.clcd.com.ezaccess.librarie...Response to Two Professional Reviews: I agree with these reviews that the story’s rhyme makes the story fun for children at the potential of guessing the animal that comes next.
The book definitely had a family atmosphere as the llama visits all of his friends and eventually reunites with his mother.Evaluation of Literary Elements: The rhyming in this book gives it a very smooth, almost musical quality to it.
The repeated question of “is your mama a llama” also makes it easy for young children to get involved in reading along with the story.
is the story of a Welsh llama with no comprehension of fundamental principles of biology and genetics, wandering around Australia(?) and trying to determine which animals have llamas for mothers.
Lloyd the Llama asks his various animal friends whether their mother is a llama.
Upon hearing each description, Lloyd immediately recognizes the sort of animal that his friend's mother is.
So it's clear that Lloyd knows what a bat (or a seal or a kangaroo or whatever) is, but doesn't seem to make the connection that seals have seals for parents, bats have bat parents, and so on.
This was one of my favorite books as a child.
As an adult now I can really understand and take into consideration what the book is doing.
One is that children can be exposed to several different animals.
Another thing that it does is showcase different landscapes, this is very inclusive to many different places around the world.
So that would help with children all over the world being able to relate.
Lloyd speaks with many different people all over the animal kingdom which is great to show that people, especially children can have many friends from different families and places.
Is Your Mama a Llama, written by Deborah Guarino is a great book for preschoolers and kindergartners.
The book does a great job of keeping children engaged with rhymes and riddles.
The book is also a great way for children to learn more about various animals.
I also liked the way the book gave hints about what the animals was instead telling the type of animal immediately.
Steven Kellogg did a great job of keeping children engaged through his illustrations.
Overall this book is great for young children and a great way to keep them involved with reading.
The text is very simple, but this book employs the use a rhyming to keep a rhythm throughout the whole book.
I also really like that this book allows the reader to look and the images and make a prediction of what mama animal the one drawn on the page belongs to.
In the classroom I would use this book to discuss the different types of animals and to show students what they look like.
A young reader would enjoy the rhythmic pattern of the text.
I really enjoyed the kindness among the animals that is exhibited throughout the story.
It is refreshing witness characters being so patient and understanding with each other.The book is about 4 inches by 5 inches, making it feel more like a pocket reader or book to take on trips with kids.
The paper is thick like cardboard making it seem more durable for young readers.The layout is portrait mode.
Overall a pleasant read that would help young readers with repeated practice.
As you read, the book give readers little bits of information about different animals that include bats, swans, cows, seals, kangaroo, and even llama.
The book is written to allow the words to rhyme and be repetitive, this would be a great book for children and students who are just learning how to read.
The book is well illustrated with warm and cool colorful pictures that really stand out on the pages.
Is Your Mama a Llama book is an appropriate picture book for students of all ages, especially students who are just starting to learn to read.
Summary: The young llama is asking all of his animal friends if their mamas are llamas.
All of his friends say no, and describe their mothers with their varying characteristics.
This allows the young llama to name the animal each mother is.
Children learn about different animals in fun riddles, which is always fun to read and learn!Teaching Point: I would use this book to teach rhyming words, since the story gave many words that rhyme.
You could also use this book to teach about the different animals found in the book, as well as the characteristics of each animal that is listed in the book.
A baby llama goes around asking different animals if their mama is a llama and they all reply that their mamas are not but instead they are animals such as a kangaroo, a seal, or a swan.
Soon, the baby llama asks another llama and she finally gets a yes.This book is so cute!
I love the illustrations and the rhyming in it.
I love all the different animals that were used in it and how they explained them all.
I think that this book could be used for so many different lessons.
It could teach about rhyming, predicting/guessing, descriptions, etc.
This read begins with a llama, who asks their friends, all different animals, if a llama is their momma.
Each friend replies back with how their mother cannot be a llama and what their mother has or does that a llama does not.
This book, while slightly informative about different animals, also has the child reader make sense of how a mother animal's child is the same animal as them.
I would recommend this book to children in kindergarten through first grade, as they would need some assistance reading, but would find it fun and enjoyable to go through the book learning about the different animals.
In this reissued and revamped version of a classic story, a llama named Lloyd asks various animals if their own mothers are llamas.
Thus, readers can simply enjoy the rhyming story and its conclusion in which Lloyd's mother finally makes an appearance or they can respond to some of the questions that ask them to pay attention to certain details or notice rhymes as they read.
This small book, part of the StoryPlay series, also includes more activities and helps youngsters develop various pre-reading skills while developing comprehension strategies.
The book is fun to read aloud.
"Is Your Mama a Llama?" by Deborah Guarino, with illustrations by Steven Kellogg, is a fun picture book that uses a rhyme scheme. This story serves its educational purpose for children who are learning about animals, including how they look and interact. This story could be used in a science class to discuss animals' and their habitats, eating habits, and appearance, relating to how they may be classified in the animal kingdom. I enjoyed this read because the rhyming made it fun and creative, and also provides the chance for an enjoyable read-aloud.
Is Your Mama a Llama? is a poem because it uses rhyming words. This book is about a llama trying to find his mother by asking different animals if they are llamas. This book is great for kids because as you read the book they author strategically put the hints to what the animal is on one page and to find out what animal they are talking about you have to turn the page. The author also uses rhyming words to help out the readers with what she is talking about. The images cover the whole page. I recommend it.
