https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7230.The_Wounded_Healer
I set out to read Henri Nouwen's 100 page book thinking I would finish it in a few days.
Nouwen’s opening chapter, a description of ‘Nuclear Man’, a prototype ‘modern man’, almost made me give up the book entirely.
I recognize Nouwen’s Nuclear Man who, ‘has lost naïve faith in the possibilities of technologies and is painfully aware that the same powers that enable man to create new life styles carry the potential for self-destruction.’ He is just not who most Healers will be ministering to today.
After this first chapter, however, I fell in step with the rest of Nouwen’s ideas/concepts concerning ‘the Wounded Healer’.
This slim volume is somewhat dated (I was pleasantly surprised to see two King Crimson songs quoted in the second essay, for instance), but its central message is timeless: that the very experiences that wound us most deeply are also those from which we can draw the greatest strength.
Nouwen uses the metaphor of the Grand Canyon: a scar on the landscape in one sense, and yet in another sense a place of almost unbearable beauty.
I use the metaphor of a bog: nobody likes to get stuck in a bog.
I read this years and years ago. It changed my life.
Nouwen includes a chapter that is kind of a case study of a conversation between a hospital chaplain (in training) and a man with fears about a pending operation, and he analyzes ways that there could (and should) have been connections.
And Nouwen makes some points near the end about how hospitality involves withdrawing and making a safe space in which someone else can exist, and that we need to recognize our pain and wounds and loneliness - not for exhibitionism (which is a timely critique) but for sharing and connection.
There are a lot of rich insights in this little book. At some point I want to really reflect on some of the meatier statements.
I've read only two of Nouwen's books so far, and just from those I can say his books warrant a 2nd and maybe a 3rd reading.
His insights are rich, dense, and provoke a lot of contemplation.
This is most definitely not a book to peruse through, but something to meditate on.
I love the title- it perfectly describes the subject of this marvelous short book.
People in helping professions develop their compassion and ability to help heal others by being wounded themselves, just as Christ was wounded.
Highly recommend this book for pastors, counselors and anyone who wants to help others.
I feel Nouwen's message in the first half of the book, while still relevant, represents the society and culture of my parents' generation.
Nouwen's insight that we can all share out of our woundedness--the idea that loneliness is elemental--make it worth reading.
And Nouwen's point that we as wounded healers allow others into our space, saying, "I too am alone, come and sit with me,"--it is a strange one, but one that I think speaks to the intersection of free will and our ability to help others.
Though originally intended to portray the youth coming of age at the time of the book's first publication in 1972, it is perhaps an even more accurate representation of the generations from that time forward.The succeeding chapters share insights for ministry to the rootless and hopeless, emphasizing the necessity for one who would minister to others to first open himself up to participate fully in the suffering of those he is attempting to help and to share freely the compassion born of his own similar struggles.The final chapter further explores the wounds of the minister and the grace by which they may become sources of healing to others.
Nouwen is in this book, as in all his books, deft, compassionate and insightful into the condition of human suffering and despair.
The last part of the book lays out a very balanced and healthy approach for a minister to drawing from one's own suffering in order to minister to others.
One could glean the same insights plus many more in either "The Return of the Prodigal Son" or "In the Name of Jesus".
This book also happens to have been written before Nouwen's transfer to the L'Arche community in 1985 to serve the mentally handicapped.
It isn't thick theological discourse, it isn't even a fully fleshed-out thesis, and, yet, there is an incredible poignancy in Nouwen's short work here.Divided into four chapters, The Wounded Healer explores the woundedness of humanity through the angles of modernity, generations, and anecdotes, seeking all the while to sketch out and reveal the deep anxieties that we all struggle to set our fingers on.
My sense in reading Nouwen is that while mainline and Catholic hamartiologies would find his terminology most conducive to their paradigms of Christian ministry, the evangelical should not have trouble understanding Nouwen's claims and practices in light of his or her own harmatiological (and soteriological) terms.
Probably the biggest thing that jumps out at me as I think about what I just read is his point that we, like Jesus, are called to use our individual wounds to assist in authentically helping heal others' wounds.
His thoughts brought me to the realization that (contrary to popular Christian thinking) Jesus doesn't always necessarily take away whatever pain we are suffering from or experiencing; rather he enters into our pain w/ us, comforts us, and strengthens us to endure it, all the while promising us that a day will come when we will no longer experience that particular pain.
I was given this book after having a conversation with a mentor about the discontent I had been feeling for quite some time in my spiritual life.
Nouwen goes on to make his most profound point, which is summarized in his title: the only way to be a healer is to face one's own wounds and be healed.
74: "I have found that the very feeling which has seemed to me most private, most personal and hence most incomprehensible by others, has turned out to be an expression for which there is a resonance in many other people.
An essential read for those inspired to serve others with the attitude of Christ. Nouwen effectively undermines the 'how' of compassion, mercy, empathy, and love and cuts to the 'why' - to the motive for our care for others. In so doing, he brings us to the heart of Christ, discussing the universal pain of being a healer, and drawing readers into the significance and value of what it means to be present to those in pain, suffering, and loss. For me personally, it added great meaning to some of the relationships I have.
I was looking for biblical references and personal or professional connections to healing through brokenness.I was concerned about his linking various psychologists (one who writes specifically about the affects of war) to pastoral relationships with their constituents.I feel like we are taught in our walk here is on the earth and not with earth.
That if a person is seeking and is affected by the current societal ways (oddly noted in this book 30 years ago) then seeking and creating a relationship with God will resolve that in that person's heart.
The first chapter was hard to get through (it felt a little like he was blaming the current generations for the way they were raised/the world they were raised in), but after that, the rest of the book was full of beautiful truth. I really needed to read this right now.
Powerful in its simplicity and rich with insight into the approaching of healing in Christian ministry from a position of woundedness - the woundedness we all share in the commonality of human suffering. I'll be reading this one again and again.
A profound, life-changing book. <3 As you read, its wisdom and beauty rises exponentially.
Great read! We are all wounded and in need of healing. However, we have Jesus, our great source of liberation who heals all wounds, thus making us into wounded healers. We are now called to share our wounds as healing agents for others.
This is beautifully written. The powerful challenge to be a wounded healer is crafted around story. Moments in this book are deeply challenging and still contemporary despite the book being written a while ago.
This is my 3rd visit to this classic and it won't be my last.Written in 1979, it is probably better understood and more relevant today than then, for the simple reason of our everyday experiences; the brokenness and dysfunction of our world today impinges upon everyone's life in one way or another, and we are also more used to living with contradiction and paradox; a world village that is searching for community, an inclusive nation state that births lonely, depressed or suicidal citizens, the rights of all men to the bounty of consumerism that leaves more than half the world hungry or the anxiety born of security that is financial in an unstable economic climate.If Jesus came into our brokenness to show a way through into what we all aspire to but cannot reach or create; community, wholeness, no pain, immortality etc...
As a Latter-Day Saint very much attuned to the need of ministering in love, I think Henri Nouwen is some excellent material to motivate what we need to do to change, to be better ministers.
Nouwen does advocate for always tending to our own wounds, such that we can continue to minister to others.HospitalityThe next point he mentions comes as an answer to a problem common to mankind: loneliness: When our souls are restless, when we are driven by thousands of different and often conflicting stimuli, when we are always “over there” between people, ideas and the worries of this world, how can we possibly create the room and space where someone else can enter freely without feeling himself an unlawful intruder?But wanting to help isn't enough.
And still...one man needs another to live, and the deeper he is willing to enter into the painful condition which he and others know, the more likely it is that he can be a leader, leading his people out of the desert into the promised land." (62-63)"A man can keep his sanity and stay alive as long as there is at least one person who is waiting for him." (66)"The remark 'He really cares for us' is often illustrated by stories which show that forgetting the many for the one is a sign of true leadership." (73)I would like to go back and read it again more slowly.
You can never go wrong with Nouwen - one of his best!
Read it during undergrad.
His key thesis is directed at those who find themselves discouraged with long-established methodology.
The result: intimacy, wholeness and healing to others through mutual identification.
Nouwen defines the psychological makeup of the post-modern generation.
It is this cohort that can be called the ‘inward’ generation.
They lack a 'future' vision fueling their negative portrayal of their world around them; with the result being erratic and destructive behaviors.
This and more is in this little gem of a book.
I highly recommend Nouwen as well as this little book.
"As a contemplative critic he keeps a certain distance to prevent his becoming absorbed in what is most urgent and most immediate, but that same distance allows him to bring to the fore the real beauty of man and his world, which is always different, always fascinating, always new." The contemplative mustn't crave human contact but be vision-led, "in contact with what is basic, central and ultimate" in the heart of situations.Above all, the minister knows "if there is hope for a better world in the future the signs must be visible in the present."In "The Wounded Healer," a seminary intern fumbles a visit with a lonely, hospitalized man who ends up dying.
I can honestly say that this book has changed my way of thinking, and is beginning to change my life too.
The whole premise is that ministry is entering into the suffering of others, and baring your own soul as well, so that together you can find healing.
I want to be this person; not just surfacey concern, but real, personal, heart-felt sympathy and compassion for my fellow man.
We're all in the same predicament of life and death and suffering...
It's scary to make yourself vulnerable to people, but how else can they understand that you care?
Great wisdom, highly recommend for anyone who needs help ministering to people.
The book, The Wounded Healer, challenges each reader to step up and make a difference in the world.
The idea of change happening one person at a time is the theme of this book.
It was an encouraging read; knowing that the impact I have in this world does matter.
We are all broken people and it is through recognizing this brokenness that we begin to find healing.
I appreciated Nouwen’s plea to rise up and reach out to our hurting world.
As a Christian we have been commissioned to go out and be the hands and feet of Jesus to the world.
Basically, this seems geared to ministers in spritual direction.
It was good for me too as we are all ministers to each other at times.
It's tricky as the old systems don't seem to be comforting to younger people.
I'm not young but in many ways I can see why.
What this book offers is a way to God in the moment.
It was very helpful to me to read a real-life pastoral visit and how it might have been better done for both the minister and for the person who died in surgery.
Once again, compassion is spending time and oneself to be there for another.
Such good insights on true Christian leadership and ministry. A couple quotes I liked:“In this analysis it has become clear that Christian leadership is accomplished only through service.”“The great illusion of leadership is to think that man can be led out of the desert by someone who has never been there.”“The remark “He really cares for us” is often illustrated by stories which show that forgetting the many for the one is a sign of true leadership.“Christian leadership is called ministry precisely to express that in the service of others new life can be brought about.”
A useful reminder that the painful and lonely life is often the best way within which to help and love others.
How can we truly minister to or walk alongside others if we are not willing to be open to our own angst?
That being said, the solutions being offered by Nouwen are just as relevant today as they were 35 years ago.It's a short read - if you're in Christian ministry, or even if you want to learn how you can help others despite your own pain, it's worth a little of your time.
