https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/248484.Book_of_a_Thousand_Days
This was so heartwarming and delightful and powerful and just wow. I loved it so much! I can't wait to read more of Shannon Hale's stuff now, knowing how her writing style is. More thoughts to come in a video review (I've decided that as of next month, rather than filming a monthly wrap up at the end, I will do mini batch reviews instead, that way I can go more into depth!)
Things start to look not so rosy anymore though, and Dashti and Lady Saren will be caught in a web of lies that will lead to an adventure neither of them could have seen coming.The strongest point of the book for me was the character of Dashti.
Hale is more than an author, she is a bona fide storyteller.I will have to retire from this review before I totally botch it up, but I want to conclude that the characters are lovely, the story enchanting, and displays the power of the written word.
As I got towards the end I was planning on giving it 4 stars, but then at the very end it surprised me and it was like the book was about something completely other than what I'd been thinking it was about the whole time.
For me she made the Grimm style of fairy tale wondrous and fun again, like they must have been when people first started hearing them, hundreds of years before Disney came along and ruined fairy tales for everyone, forever.I was worried, on the first page, that this book would suffer from the nondescript/slightly awkward "person from foreign land" voice that afflicts a lot of books in this genre, but that was totally not the case.
Oh gosh, I'm going to be obsessed with Shannon Hale now, aren't I?
A few twists here and there make it interesting enough to keep reading and it has a satisfying ending, even if not surprising.I think Shannon Hale manages to create a really charming world by mixing a well known fairy tale with an unexplored setting.
I really loved the voice of the main character as it comes through as much when she tells us about her everyday life as when she recounts the terrible and great events happening once they're prisoners inside the tower.I do like young heroines who manage to save themselves and those they love without turning into kick-assing caricatures but by preserving discovering who they really are and using that to move forward.All in all a lovely story that was very well told.
So I started this book at 2:00 am.
(Note to self: don't start books at 2:00 am!
Are you crazy???) Yeah, I couldn't put it down!
;)Anyway, I started the book, and was like, "Why is this written from the lady's maid's point of view and not from the lady's point of view.
Yeah, that becomes very clear within just a few pages.
I really loved Dashti—she was such a fascinating character!
I loved the world that Shannon Hale created for this book.
The acknowledgments at the back say that it's based on Mongolian history (hence the usage of "khan"...), which is just fascinating to me.
;) Loved it.
A lady and her loyal maid are locked in a tower for seven years as punishment for the lady's refusal to marry the man her father wants her to.
Hale's version is told in diary format from the point of view of the maid--Dashti.
The conclusion I came to is that I wanted more.
Or at least her struggle wasn't given the gravity it deserved.
I wanted to get to the root of her madness.
When I finally found out, it was appropriately weird but it wasn't given enough time or depth.
I wanted more.
3.5 stars for a cute YA high fantasy. Fans of fairy tale retellings, this is one for you!
This was a pleasant, if somewhat simplistic book with a neat conceit, unique setting, but rather uncomplicated characters and a straightforward plot.
I also liked the two main characters' arcs over the course of the story.
Finally the story itself was pleasantly diverting enough and fit in nicely with the setting and culture the author devised.
It was perfectly fine.As for the bad, every other characters in the story was remarkably shallow and basic.
Their motivations were equally simple and dull.The story, while pleasantly diverting also wasn't challenging.
The prose was very simple and straightforward, which fits the perspective of the character writing it.
Dashti must make a choice, for herself, and for Saren.In Book of a Thousand Days, Shannon Hale brings to life the tale of Maid Maleen.
She knows how to work, and Hale attempts to show a different kind of heroine .Book of a Thousand Days is a valuable book in today’s world of Clique and Gossip Girl novels.
She won a Newbery Honor for Princess Academy.I adored Book of a Thousand Days because it was a fantasy with not too much magic.
Book of a Thousand Days has characters with realistic, understandable feelings that draw you in to the fairy tale.
Quite possibly Shannon's best book! A joyous read, rich with detail and written in the author's inimitible, poetic style. I not only felt a deep connection for the narrator, but also for the male protagonist, and the Mongolia-like world she created was gorgeous to behold. Lovely, lovely, lovely!
I enjoyed this a lot - so much so that I DIDN'T finish it last night. I wanted to save it so that I would have something to look forward to reading this afternoon. I found myself thinking about the story several times throughout the day and wondering how it might end. I wasn't disappointed. Another great job by Shannon Hale!
I definitely liked the first half better than the last half (and I'm still convinced that I've read this before), but it was a good book. I love Shannon's writing style and how it's always so fairytale like and amazing. *needs to reread her Books of Bayern series immediately*
Seven years they were to stay, Lady Saren and her handmaid Dashti.
Despite said fact, it’s still Dashti who shines in this one because the princess was often times too delicate, too soft, too shy… and just not quite all there.
Despite her servitude and the attitude she bore in that position, she’s still a strong voice, the strongest in fact.
Because were this all about Saren, I don’t think I’d have enjoyed the story one bit.
There’s the added bonus in how it’s told: each entry by Dashti revealed the changes in her thinking and some times even glimpses of her Lady improving.
Reviewed by Jessica Cave for TeensReadToo.comShannon Hale's BOOK OF A THOUSAND DAYS is a riveting read that allows you to see into the soul of a young girl.
Angry at her for not marrying the ruler of a nearby kingdom, Lady Saren's father locks her and her maid in a tower.
With evil lords, unresponsive guards, and dreamy suitors knocking on their tiny window on a daily basis, they have enough views of outside life to keep living through to the next day.
I was caught up in the world of Dashti and her dear Lady Saren.
3.5 stars for the book.A 100 stars for the audiobook narration. A full cast audio and done so well.
The original story has the princess as the protagonist, but Shannon made the maid the heroine of Book of a Thousand Days, and I have to say IT WORKED.
I say, this is quite the flawless heroine.The writing is typical Shannon Hale: musical, addictive, sarcastic, brilliant, and my only regret is that the final events happened too fast -- I wanted more!Definitely one of the best books I've read this year so far, and a new all time favorite.
I really, really wanted to love this book because I love Shannon Hale and all my Goodreads friends have given it 5 or 4 stars but...
While people who like the book would probably say that she's just fiercely loyal, I found her to be kind of an idiot.
But no, Dashti had literally just met Lady Saren when she agreed to be locked in a tower for 7 years with a whiny brat she didn't even know.
After reading and thoroughly enjoying Goose Girl and Princess Academy, I was excited to see this new young adult novel (another retelling of an obscure fairytale) from Shannon Hale.
But for me, there just wasn’t enough character development — to the reader, everyone is more or less just who they seem all the way through a book (ironic considering that disguise is a major plot element).
I liked Dashti’s moral courage; she is a strong heroine (even if her character development left little to surprise).Okay, okay; so maybe the one thing I liked unequivocally was the sweet romance and the happily-ever-after at the end!
2nd Read Review:I really enjoyed this book, but there were several things I didn’t enjoy so much about it.
-Romance: some kissing, touching (not in a bad way), smelling, etc.
nothing bad here.
I actually enjoyed the scenes with romance in them.-Language: no bad language!!-Violence: definitely some violence , would recommend book for ages 13+There was a pretty bad scene where Dashti goes out onto the battlefield and does something very bad.
I really had a problem with this, and I did not enjoy it.
The romance was not too much either, which was a plus!Kind of reminds me of Rapunzel, with the whole tower thing.
I loved this book so much! But the book is more than a thousand pages so you know. I like the characters and the character development. I loved the love relationship and how brave the protagonist is. She truly is looked upon by the gods! I cannot wait to read more of Shannon Hale books.❤❤❤😍
I loved this book so much! But the book is more than a thousand pages so you know. I like the characters and the character development. I loved the love relationship and how brave the protagonist is. She truly is looked upon by the gods! I cannot wait to read more of Shannon Hale books.❤️❤️❤️😍
I have mixed feelings on this book. Shannon Hale is one of my most favorite authors, so I had huge expectations for this book. Pros: The culture was really interesting, with the gods, lords, class, setting, etc. The ending was also very good!!! It surprised me!!! Cons: There were several inappropriate parts in the book, which didn’t need to be added AT ALL. The story would’ve been much better without it. I also found the book to be very slow. It took a while for the book to go anywhere. Not my favorite book, but not terrible.
Book of a Thousand Days bercerita tentang kehidupan yang dijalani Lady Saren dan pembantunya Dashti saat mereka dikunci oleh ayah Lady Saren di menara selama 7 tahun karena Lady Saren menolak perjodohan dirinya dengan salah satu penguasa daerah, Lord Khasar.
Kisah ini diceritakan oleh Dashti yang memang pandai menulis dan membaca.Dashti datang untuk bekerja pada Lady Saren di hari kesatu tanpa mengetahui apa yang akan menimpanya ketika Lady Saren menyuruhnya bersumpah tidak akan meninggalkannya.
Sementara itu Lady Saren tetap tak mau memberitahu jati dirinya karena khawatir dirinya akan dibunuh.Keberuntungan sepertinya mengiringi Dashti terus, hingga akhirnya Dashti bisa menjadi juru tulis di rumah itu sementara Lady Saren tetap bekerja sebagai pencuci panci di dapur.
Fifteen-year-old Dashti, sworn to obey her sixteen-year-old mistress, the Lady Saren, shares Saren's years of punishment locked in a tower, then brings her safely to the lands of her true love, where both must hide who they are as they work as kitchen maids.My copy is coming in a couple of days and I just can't wait!!
I am sure this will be just as good!
it's honest, beautiful, brutal and it teaches how important is work, that the pen is mightier than sword, that a small mucker girl could be a princess by the way she acts.
There was one part that started to drag just a little bit, but somehow a book about two girls in a tower became a page turner.
I enjoyed how Dashti's "voice" changed as she changed, and I'm very impressed with Hale's skill in pulling that off.I was thrilled to read a young adult book with a strong female lead and no love triangle in sight!
I know I wrote the bit about two suitors, but believe me, there's no love triangle.I highly recommend this all the way around.
I probably wouldn't recommend this book to girls under 12, but I think Hale has produced a wonderful heroine for the older teen set.
I loved how the two girls-- Saren, a princess and lady, and Dashti, a peasant “mucker” maid--reversed roles in the course of the story.
Slowly, Dashti evolves into a heroine partly out of necessity (she can see Saren doesn’t possess what is needed to save them) and partly because she comes to realize that she is in love, and is loveable.
I can’t even describe what a fantastic book this is.
Book of a Thousand Days is quite different from the rest of Shannon Hale’s stories.
It’s written in the form of diary entries from the point of view of Dashti.I enjoyed reading about their imprisonment in the tower as it was captivating but I was disappointed they didn’t stay in there longer, nor were their troubles all that life-threatening.
Dashti’s song singing was pretty neat and I liked the fact that she wasn’t the usual perfectly beautiful heroines as she was marked from birth with red splotches over her skin.
Hale’s writing was as fluid as ever but I felt there was something missing from it, just like the story.
This is a tale of imprisonment, courage, love, romance, fantasy, and one spectacular protagonist.This is a tale of the silenced being given a voice, of the oppressed fighting their way out of darkness, so they can feel the burn of the sun of life on their skin once again.It is a tale about the power and magic of words.
And the power of the female body.Hale uses Dashti, her beautifully crafted mucker maid, to express the necessity of the written word, and to provide the glorious hope of storytelling.
Everybody has a story worth telling, because everybody has a life worth living.Dashti, for me, represents of those who have been told they can't.
With a plain face but a great soul she could teach the most hard-hearted of people what it means to be kind and very brave, despite of all your fears.Her "mama used to say that the mightiest of the healing songs was a good laugh" and that "hitting is the language of cowards and drunkards".
So Dashti is trying to protect and to heal, to sing each troubled soul into happines and be a crutch for every other broken one.
If you like fairytales and stories about love, sacrifice and courage above fear; with true heroes and happy ever afters, and a little bit of healing magic thrown in the mix, you're gonna love this book!
This was wonderful and heartwarming! This is written in a diary format by Dashti, a Lady's maid. After Lady Saren refuses to marry the man her father promises her to, they are both locked in a tower for seven years. It's a medieval style fantasy and it also has drawings by Dashti throughout her entries. I'm looking forward to reading more books by Shannon Hale!
