https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/913407.Cogan_s_Trade
higgins is kind of amazing, the dialog is incredible, this book could go on for 10,000 more pages and i'd probably never put it down. it's not quite as good as his The Friends of Eddie Coyle, i think maybe because it's more soliloquies than exchanges (or maybe because the story is pretty much (exactly?) the same). i don't know, but the guy's got his own way of doing things and he's always electrifying to read."He made two mistakes," Cogan said. "The second mistake was making the first mistake, like it always is. That's all you get, two mistakes."
I picked this up in the airport bookstore and figured it would be a good way to pass the time on the plane.
Don’t ever let anyone tell you cover art doesn’t matter.)The book is full of action and violence, just as a good noir crime novel should be.
It’s tough when you’re enjoying the story, but the language and the style make for difficult reading.
Just the sort of thing you’d talk about, stuck in a car, waiting for a guy.Overall, it’s a quick read and a good pick for folks who like tough guys and guns (and really, who doesn’t like tough guys and guns?).
This is my first George Higgins novel so I wasn't sure what to expect - his writing style is basically all dialogue.
But the plot moves at a glacial pace and the initial thrill of the conversations wore off about halfway through, leaving me wondering why hardly anything seemed to be happening.I'm conflicted about this book; on the one hand I'm in total admiration of George Higgins' ability to render dialogue, particularly gangster dialogue, so convincingly - and on the other, the sheer amount of it just envelops the novel and stultifies the actual story.
On the way, we hear various criminals – including Cogan himself – bitch about their bosses, reminisce about previous capers, and discuss the minutia of their lives.Some of their dialog is hilarious, but it is hilarious in an unintentional way, not because they spout glib wisecracks like Philip Marlowe, but because of the fact that they approach their professions with deadly earnestness, and express themselves in the lurid language of petty criminals.For example, while two thugs are waiting to “interrogate” Markie Trattman, the operator of the card game that was robbed, they end up discussing Trattman’s remarkably active sex life and seeming ability to bed a woman who is a total stranger every night: “I think the guy’s afraid, there’s some broad some place inna world that’s gonna fuck, and he’ll die without asking her.
"There's all kinds of reasons for things," Cogan said.
The only thing that matters is if you're the guy that's gonna get whacked.
That's the only fuckin' thing." -- Jackie CoganAnd that right there sums up this book.
The entire plot hovers at the edge of the story, revealed piece by piece through the various character interactions.
A couple lowlife hoods knock over a mob run card game and mob enforcer Jackie Cogan is called in to make things right.
Just like the characters in the story, you have no idea who's around the next corner.
Each scene is largely conversational, with little in the way of action.
The only downside is that the dialogue often has little to do with the plot – it’s just everyday chat that works to give a portrait of the small number of characters.
I love dialogue driven stories, but it has to serve the plot.
Personally I would have preferred some of the conversations to be trimmed back to the mostly relevant bits and a doubling of the number of scenes.
Overall, an interesting and enjoyable read with first rate dialogue, but the plot falls a little short for my tastes.
At certain points you'd think it would make a great short story by getting rid of some characters and unnecessary events.
Higgins does give a pretty original voice to each character and it does not pull any punches with "crime talk." Think of The Wire-speak but in the 1970s in Boston.
It was also interesting that the titular Cogan doesn't appear well into the second quarter of the book, and even then he is pretty sparse.
The whole thing is about buildup, and it does work itself into a pretty interesting end.
Still an interesting quick read with some good dialogue.
The story is simple, the narrative is radical, and the dialogue is on another planet.
Higgins is up there with Tarantino as one of the all-time masters of character dialogue.
I would love to see this as a play.
The book is populated with criminals and hanger-on's and it would be easy for them to slip into cliche, but each guy has such a unique and singular voice.
These guys like to talk and they talk a lot.
It's almost like eavesdropping in a bar and overhearing the craziest shit that you know you really shouldn't be listening too.
This novel is almost entirely dialogue, which is typical of a Higgins book; that's what we read him for.
Nobody had a better ear for the way tough guys talk, except possibly for Elmore Leonard, but where Leonard's dialogue was spare and laconic, polished with infinite care, Higgins's is positively logorrheic: he just sets these low-lifes talking (and boy, can they talk) and lets the story emerge.
There are sundry complications but it all winds up pretty much as we knew it would.How much you like Higgins depends a lot on how much you like hanging out with unsavory characters.
Terrific vintage crime novel by genre-master George V.
Higgins.
Perhaps not as quite as good as his classic 'The Friends Of Eddie Coyle' but every bit as vivid and believable.
Each of the characters here are written so sharply and distinctly that it makes it easy for a reader to get a mind's eye picture of the action/scenes taking place.
CT is a short, quick read consisting of very lively conversational dialogue between no more than two to three characters at the most in each chapter.
Rich, authentic and striking, I read it just under six hours in two different sittings.
I liked this book and am a huge fan of George V Higgins – Friends of Eddie Coyle is one of the all-time great crime novels.
Ended up giving this three stars despite it's many good points – great dialogue, the bleak but believable outlook of these desperate characters, the pared-down style.
Higgins has the characters speak in long, perfectly idiomatic speech, so long they're like Shakespearean soliloquies, and people don't address each other in such long speeches in real life.
It's a tough style, but can be beautifully rewarding because the reader learns to judge these guys through spending some time with them.
George Higgins wrote books in which the entirety of the plot seemed to take place through dialog. Cogan's Trade is another example. All dialog all the time. Great walls of it on each page. This works for Higgins as for few others. Higgins was, along with Elmore Leonard, one of the greats at writing crisp, streetwise dialog. When this works, it really works well (see The Friends of Eddie Coyle) In Cogan's trade it works, but not as well. I liked the book well enough but not as much as Eddie Coyle.
If possible, perhaps even more dialogue-heavy than Friends of Eddie Coyle. Feels entirely authentic, like being a fly on the wall behind an assortment of shady and unsavory characters. Be very interesting to see how the film adaptation plays out. Not quite as enjoyable as FOEC, but still a total pleasure to read - dark, & laugh out loud funny in spots. Totally pleased Black Lizard is putting these back in print.
What I've heard is true - if you like Leonard, you'll like Higgins.
"My friend, Thomas Jefferson is an American saint because he wrote the words, "All men are created equal," words he clearly didn't believe since he allowed his own children to live in slavery.
He's a rich white snob who's sick of paying his taxes to the Brits.
So, yeah, he writes some lovely words and aroused the rabble and they went died for those words while he sat back and drank his wine and fucked his slave girl.
This guy wants to tell me we're living in a community?
I'm living in America, and in America you're on your own.
Got turned on to Higgins by the alright film "Killing Them Softly", and the film comes nowhere near to reading the intoxicating dialogue full of slang, comedy, and crime. It's structure is amazing, kind of roving between these criminals and underworld figures. And the ending how it fizzles after all this action is so great. I'm hooked. This is brilliant writing.
Book is driven by the dialogue of the criminal protagonists and their foils. Quickly paced and hard to put down. Higgins has a really good ear and is a captivating storyteller. I'll be seeking out more of his books.
Eventually two brothers who are funny, colorful, violent and incredibly stupid are hired to do the talking.
Many are laugh-out-loud funny.Russel, just out of the joint, is interviewed for a job that would involve committing a heist.
He talks forever about working for his Uncle down in tunnels.
Russel gets the job.Frankie becomes Russel's partner in the heist and they converse forever, always in rich, colorful ex-con dialect.
Mickey's ramblings give the reader a bevy of stories about Miami; the track, hookers forever, thousands spent each day with a strange woman with needle tracks even as he loves his wife.Cogan takes matters into his own hands.
Just a book of dialogue. But great dialogue, some of the best I've ever read. Whenever he does actually write action or setting or whatever it is pretty terrible, so it's good Higgins sticks to dialogue. Though, you could watch the movie Killing Them Softly which basically uses this book as a screenplay and enjoy it that way too. I loved both.
Higgins because a reviewer of the Brad Pitt movie Killing Them Softly couldn’t in good conscience fully recommend the film.
But the critic dropped the Elmore Leonard name while lavishing good-faith praise on Higgins, the author of Cogan’s Trade, the book upon which the movie is based.
Cogan’s Trade—the first of six or seven Higgins novels I hope to read—is a brutal pleasure, and the half dozen or so killings and beatings are the least of the barbarity.
Higgins’s narratives, I’ve been informed, proceed largely through dialogue; his books contain very little exposition or scenery.
Of course, this is a crime novel so characters would have to hide what they know through their conversations with others.
In the midst of reading it, I felt that it wasn't really my style, but by the end, I thought it was a clever way of doing things.
At some points, it might have been equivalent as reading a script because it's made of conversations and simple actions.
My rating is tentative because I would definitely read this book in the future to see if my feelings are the same.
Higgins podría ser un excelente autor teatral ya que, al menos en este libro, se basa sobre todo en los diálogos, tanto para ir construyendo los personajes como para desarrollar la acción de los mismos.
Pero en este caso no ha sido Tarantino el que ha adaptado la obra de Higgins a la gran pantalla, sino que la ha llevado a cabo Andrew Dominik.
En este caso y como excepción que confirma la regla, si el libro no está mal, la película está mucho mejor.
I Just re-read this (as I see others have) because of the new film adaptation, "Killing Them Softly,'' with Brad Pitt and the crew and I think it stands up fine.
Very good, dialogue-driven, tough but realistic Botston crime scene narrative.
Higgins at his best can make Elmore Leonard, for instance, seem more like Ronald Firbank (okay, that analogy may be a stretch but you get the point).
I think he's under-celebrated; some of his later work got self-indulgent.
The dialogue, again, also reminds me of other masters of the medium like John O'Hara.
Big ups for Mr. Higgins.
His novels are extremely dialogue heavy to the extent that any progression in the narrative comes at a very slow pace.
The dialogue is great, very gritty and hard-boiled but compared to similar types of author the pace of the story is pedestrian, more happens in a chapter in an Elmore Leonard book than a whole Higgins novel.The scenario here is typical pulp fiction fare and I don't know how long the movie (Killing Me Softly)is but I'd say the screenwriters had great difficulty dragging it out to 90 mins!!!If you like this type of book stick to Elmore Leonard, Jim Thompson etc.
I admit that I often discover books from films, and this was one of them.
The film in question?
I was excited to read this book because the film is set in New Orleans, but the book is actually set in good ol' Boston.
Inevitably, I read the entire book with a Boston accent--I mean, how can you not?
It's a crime novel about the Boston underworld.
The characters' dialogues are hilarious and gritty, which make up the majority of the book (I had to look up a lot of the slang; I'm just not that cool, you guys).
Originally published in 1974, this quick read could have been a fine thriller if not for the author’s “crackling dialog,” i.e. his attempt at transcribing heavy Boston accents.
Like all stylistic dialog, this made the book very difficult to follow.
I saw the recent movie; otherwise, I would have been totally lost and put the book aside.
Also, this book is nothing but talk, talk, and more talk; there are about five pages where something is actually happening.
The rest of the book is simply the characters talking to each other.
I've never read anything quite like it.
All dialogue, all the time.
I enjoyed every minute of it, every stitch in the born loser lives of these small-time hoods.
Here's a writer who achieves authenticity in constant dialogue without resorting to phonetics, which given the action takes place in Boston is a real relief, but his ear for rhythm of real life speech is impressive.
Even though it's serious business on the line, mostly these guys talk about their wives and work.
I miss it already -- I'm tempted to read it again."He made two mistakes," Cogan said.
That's all you get, two mistakes."


I turned to the audiobook for this one because it was a really difficult read. The novel is predominantly made up of ex-cons telling each other tales of their criminal exploits while they prepare to heist a poker game. The dialogue is really authentic - jittery and thick with varied Bostonian accents - which is what made the story hard to follow but, in a book where very little happens, a vast underworld is portrayed through these simple and effective yarns. I can't wait for the film next year with Pitt, Gandolfini, and Liotta.
