https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110384.Romancing_Mister_Bridgerton
I adore romances where the supposedly ugly duckling, Plain Jane heroine is finally seen as a beautiful swan, has her day in the sun, and finds happily ever after with the wonderful hero of her dreams, and Romancing Mister Bridgerton is one of the most enjoyable that I’ve read.Colin and Penelope are perfect for each other, and the fact that they’re insecure, flawed, and have some growing up to do makes them all the more relatable and lovable.
Colin’s gentle, passionate reverence of Penelope during their lovemaking was sigh-worthy.It’s a heartwarming, funny, and delightful feel good romance with a swoon-worthy hero and an adorable heroine that will have you smiling, laughing, crying, cheering, sighing, and perhaps wishing for your very own Mr. Colin Bridgerton.What else can I say?
3.5*.My favorite of the Bridgerton boys and this was such a cute story of being in love and believing in that love.
At some point in our lives we all ask some fundamental questions regarding our existence, the great mysteries of the universe, the past, the present and the future of humanity. Mankind is curious (and peculiar) like this; spending hours pondering on notions, dedicating personal effort and money, researching, reading, trying to find a solution to quench the hunger that consumes us. The Author knows this kind of struggle all too well. The last few days have been dedicated to the answer of one sin
Anthony is the Rake turned into family man extraordinaire, while Colin is the carefree, smooth, genial and flirty gentleman every creature with ovaries adores, and thanks to Romancing Mister Bridgerton, we discovered another side to him, that rendered him more alluring and, well, delicious (don't mind the Author, she's a notorious man-eater).
The questionmark that haunts her thoughts may remain immoveable like the mountains, but the Author can declare with clarity that the forth story of the Bridgerton family is her favorite.
Believe that Colins Bridgerton exist.(The Author is a little naive, so please forgive her extravagant declarations).- Katerina's Bookish Papers, July 2018
”I am certainly not going to marry Penelope Featherington!” Ever since we heard Colin Bridgerton utter, ummm, shout the above statement, we should have known that he’s going to eat his words sooner or later.And eat them he did.Penelope Featherington. She freshly comes out to society, out to meet the ton, with an excess of a few stones in her weight, and either orange/yellow/red gowns which doesn’t do her complexion any good. We can’t blame her. Her mother is a tyrant. But Penelope knows she doe
Ever since we heard Colin Bridgerton utter, ummm, shout the above statement, we should have known that he’s going to eat his words sooner or later.And eat them he did.Penelope Featherington.
She freshly comes out to society, out to meet the ton, with an excess of a few stones in her weight, and either orange/yellow/red gowns which doesn’t do her complexion any good.
But Penelope knows she doesn’t look good.
He’s not just the charming easygoing gentleman everyone thinks, because behind his beguiling smile are tons of layers of insecurities and dissatisfaction with his life.But in this work of fiction lies real people with real problems.
St. Bride's Church Fleet Street, London, England, c.1830*★★★★ I read this when it first came out over ten years ago and remember loving Colin. Though I’m a bit of a “re-reader,” I haven’t done so. Consequently, I jumped at the chance to join in a “buddy read,” the forth in this enduring series.However, on re-read I was really impressed with Penelope. Don’t get me wrong: I still had heart palpitations over Colin and his deep green eyes. Nevertheless, I appreciated Penelope’s subtle straight-forwa
St. Bride's Church Fleet Street, London, England, c.1830*★★★★½ I read this when it first came out over ten years ago and remember loving Colin.
Consequently, I jumped at the chance to join in a “buddy read,” the forth in this enduring series.However, on re-read I was really impressed with Penelope.
I was also surprised at how much more I enjoyed seeing these two “perfect for each other” people – the wallflower spinster no one notices and the always popular “Golden Boy” – go from friendship to love on this second visit to Ms. Quinn’s world.
Of course, it isn’t strictly true that they were friends first, because Penelope has loved Colin for years.
Penelope Featherington has been in love with Colin Bridgerton for what seems like forever, from a young girl making her debut in society to a resign spinster.
Colin Bridgerton has always been the laid-back charmer of the family, but behind the charmer mask lays a man looking for himself in the world, trying to make his mark, much like his brothers have done.
As both Colin and Penelope discover each other’s secrets, they start to see their true personality longing to break free and the deep love waiting for them both… There are few books I can say have hit a cord within me like Romancing Mister Bridgerton has.
Also they make out in a carriage once which is something I have always wanted to do.The most interesting part of this story was how Quinn handled the bruised ego of the hero which was bruised on the account of his beloved being more successful than him (and what’s worse - in the same field!).
Would you want to read a romance novel where a hero takes in his stride that he would never be as good of a scientist/doctor/writer as the heroine?
One of my favorites Julia Quinn to the date (and I love her books every time). Collin and Penelope were amazing together and I could read about them forever!Rating:  5 Stars. Steam:  Some hot moments. Sensible Subjects:  (view spoiler)[ Not really. (hide spoiler)]Love Triangle:  (view spoiler)[ No. (hide spoiler)]Cheating:  (view spoiler)[ No. (hide spoiler)]HEA:  (view spoiler)[ Yes. (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Te amo con todo lo que soy, todo lo que he sido y todo lo que espero ser. —Colin… —Te amo con mi pasado y te amo por mi futuro. —La besó dulcemente en los labios —Te amo por los hijos que tendremos y por los años que tendremos juntos. Te amo por todas y cada una de mis sonrisas y más aún, por todas y cada una de tus sonrisas. Penélope se apoyó en el respaldo de un sillón. —Te amo —repitió él.  Queridos amigos de goodreads:Quiero confesarles que me enamorado por 9383383737 vez y ahora es de Col
así estoy en este aprieto aunque en estos momento ya se habrán dado cuenta que calificación le diYo estaba súper emocionada cuando me enteré que Penélope era la pareja de Colin, me encantan este tipo de Clichés de chicas florero solteronas con hombre encantadores y seductores , me imagine una historia diferente más divertida no me malentiendan me gustó pero no me encantó.En cambio los personajes me enamoraron empecemos con Penélope que fue una agradable sorpresa para mí hasta me atrevo a decir que llevó el peso de la historia, se me hizo similar a  La Conspiración de la Condesa de Courtney Milan OJO similar más no igual no es tan emotivo que ese libro.Penélope es inteligente sarcástica ingeniosa, pero nunca ha dado rienda suelta a sus atributos porque es tímida con las personas con las que no siente confianza, lleva enamorada toda una vida de Colin aunque ella sabe que su amor no será correspondido.
Colin es el personaje más amado por las fans de la serie, a mi me gusta pero no es mi favorito, y ciertamente su libro tampoco lo es.Conocía el "Gran secreto de Penelope" desde hace rato, y eso arruinó un poco mi experiencia lectora, fue una historia bonita, dulce y entretenida; pero queda en tercer lugar detrás de Simón y Daph, Benedict y Sohie; aunque si me ha gustado un poco más que la historia de Anthony y Kate.
Priča o Colinu Bridgertonu i Penelope Featherington koji se poznaju već dvanaest godina.
Također, uvjerila se s određenim zadovoljstvom da se i muškarac o kojem je riječ – a bio je to Colin Bridgerton – osjećao baš jednako kao i ona.
(...) i njemu se zemlja zatresla, srce mu je poskočilo, a Penelope je bez i najmanje sumnje znala da je i on ostao bez daha.
Takođe se pojavljuju ostala braća i sestre Bridgerton koji takođe imaju važnu ulogu u celokupnom serijalu.Ono što najviše volim kod ove knjige je to koliko je Colin romantičan i kako je bio realan put koji su njih dvoje zajedno prošli."Ja te volim", reče dubokim strastvenim glasom.
At first, Colin is furious at her having read his private journals and they quarrel, but eventually, her genuine enthusiasm and praise for his writing surprise and humble him and start him thinking that perhaps this is what he’s meant to do, and he takes her suggestion to heart.Previously the perennial wallflower, Penelope has discovered that spinsterhood has its benefits; not only because she can dress as she wants, but because she feels free to be more herself and doesn’t have to put up with her mother’s constant attempts to marry her off.
Colin wasn't in love with Penelope then and hadn't yet realized that a wonderful person had been right under his nose for years, but he still liked her, and I could have hugged him for the kind and thoughtful way he handled that moment.There's no way I can properly gripe about what Quinn did in the second half (last third?) of the book without spoiling things, so, if you don't like spoilers, stop reading this review at this point (or, more accurately, don't click the "spoiler" link).(view spoiler)[There are a few things I really hate coming across in romance novels.
Who would have suspected such a thing from Colin, who always seems to enjoy himself in everything?What I loved about this book is that we learn that there is more to the hero and heroine than we first thought.
Quinn presents Penelope and Colin as one way, and in this book, we discover that there is more to these characters than we ever suspected.If you’ve been wondering who Lady Whistledown is, then rest easy because you do find out who it is in this one!
I love that Quinn makes each book different while still keeping it true to the characters.
My Review:What a fabulously fun read! I adored Colin and Penelope and especially Lady Danbury! Revisiting the rest of the Bridgerton family was truly a joy :) Colin and Penelope make the perfect match and seeing close childhood friends grow into loving, adult soul mates was one of the greatest highlights in my reading adventures this year. I was smiling from the beginning to the end – laughing out loud and sighing often.
Even in the previous books as a minor character - my heart would ache for that poor girl always dressed in the wrong colors, with whom no one would dance except if their mamas told them to (tsk, tsk, Mr.Colin Bridgerton), and since that scene in The Viscount Who Loved Me when Anthony saves her from that awful-awful Cressida, I knew she ought to have her own book, so she could show them.
So my dear Penelope is now ahead of Sophie, my previous favorite-among-favorites Bridgerton series heroine.
2.5 starsColin is a sweet guy.
He doesn't have dark secrets, or a tragic past, not even problems.
Is that really a serious problem?His character is too lightweight, he is too gentle, too sweet.
Her character is genuine and consistent.
She is also very endearing, witty, and has an ironic sense of humor.The identity of Lady Whistledown is revealed in this book, but it is not as striking as I expected.Overall Romancing Mr. Bridgerton is an enjoyable romance, but the story and the characters (with the exception of Penelope) haven't left a deep impression on me.Originally posted on my blog on August 26, 2012.My favorite quotes.
Αν και οι ήρωες του βιβλίου Πενέλοπε και Κόλιν παραμένουν έως και αυτή τη στιγμή οι αγαπημένες μου φιγούρες σε όλη τη σειρά, -καθώς η ιστορία τους από τα προηγούμενα βιβλία είχε όλα τα φόντα να εξελιχθεί σε δυναμίτη- στο συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο αντί να ενδυναμωθεί η κατάσταση, ένιωσα ότι ξεφούσκωσε.
Τώρα θα μου πείτε γιατί; Ίσως διότι, εκτός από την ιστορία αγάπης, που ήταν πολύ απλή «σε αγαπώ, αγάπα με και εσύ» δεν είχε μία αρκετά δυνατή δευτερεύουσα ιστορία, για να με κρατήσει.
Επίσης η πλοκή μου φάνηκε λίγο φλατ.
***4,5 lovely stars***
♥♥♥♥♥♥♥Colin♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ Nuestra reseña en A la cama con... un libro
She is too busy saying sorry and trying to understand their point of view to ever realise that, hey, she has a right to do something worthwhile and creative with her own life.
Always quick with the backdown and full of mind numbing and cringe-worthy gratitude that Colin might actually want her- Penelope Featherington, for God's sake!.There were so many passages in the book that just made me angry.
Even at the end, although we are given the sop that Penelope was his "editor", it is Colin's success that is lauded, his book she admires and his career that we are to look forward to.
I'm not sure what she was thinking, but it was extremely cheap (view spoiler)[to have Penelope's PoV not know that Penelope was Lady Whistledown.
And no, it doesn't help to have Quinn having him wonder at himself "this is so out of character for me." He recovers relatively quickly once he finally figures out why his reaction is so strong, but that still didn't reconcile me to his outbursty bits.Fortunately, Penelope was delightful and I loved her courage and willingness to put herself out there.
We find out about Penelope's secret life at the same time as Colin, and I wish we as readers were let in on the secret a bit earlier than that.
I guess it would've brought a bit tension into this sugary honey sweet cotton candy chocolate-y story.And then there is the climax when Cressida blackmails Penelope because she somehow magically figured out that Penelope is Lady W.
And then Colin swoops in and lets the cat out of the bag in front of 500 people and everybody is happy they were being fooled and insulted and talked about for eleven years and we see that Colin and Penelope's fear of ruination was really unnecessary.I don't know, I'm the odd one here I guess.
Penelope and Colin! Both are my favorite characters and it was best romance I have ever read. Oh I am! I hardly read romance and like it but this series has made me fall all over again in love with romance...
Every time I finish a book I liked it I find it really difficult to describe with words the reasons. 4,5 stars from me. This book gave me the hope and the faith that true love can be all around and it comes when you don’t even expect it. The story is about Penelope a young lady who spend almost half of her life being secretly in love with Colin, hers best friend’s brother. While her secret love for Colin is growing he spents most of his time travelling abroad, not to mention that all these years
While her secret love for Colin is growing he spents most of his time travelling abroad, not to mention that all these years he only sees her as a friend or more like a rescuer in ball dances when no other man offers her a dance .When finally Colin comes back to London he finds out that Penelope is not exactly the ugly duckling or the shy wallflower he left but she has become a very attractive and strong woman who wake up feelings to him that he never imagined he could feel.
Y bueno, la evolución de su relación me ha re-que-te-encantado.
En este libro me ha encantado ver que las motivaciones y las preocupaciones de ambos eran bastante complejas.
Y me gusta porque no está el típico macho que se ocupa de la finca (y de su mujercita) ni ella tiene como ocupación ser devota a su marido y a los hijos y FIN.
Y yo que soy poco dada a los dramas rocabolescos (que no se los traga nadie) agradezco que el problema de esta historia no fuera un lío impresionante.
Quizás lo único que le faltaría es un poco más de pasión entre los dos protagonistas.
First, Quinn does something with POV that really bothers me, and which I am trying to delicately explain here without giving away the book's central mystery, slight as it is.
Now, I'm sure you all know that I very much like reading and writing about sex.
This book has some of the most off-putting sex scenes I've ever read outside of actual badfic.
This was me trying to read the umpteenth sex scene in this book: "It was agony.
But I do know I certainly don't want to read about the agony and ecstasy of some inappropriately shirtless dweeb's member.
Got through it by sheer perseverance alone, not because I couldn't put the book down.
The dialogues and action in the first part are pretty shallow and boring (unless I'm missing something that I'm supposed to detect "between the lines") and the plotline about unmasking "Lady Whistledown" was really of very little interest to me.
There are several characters - Lady Danbury, Mrs. Featherington, Eloise - who are quite annoying throughout the book.
Zero detectable sexual chemistry between the hero and heroine almost up to the end of the book also doesn't help.
Well, I'll probably have food thrown at me for the 3 stars.
I would have gone 3.5 but not 4.
I'm shocked at how much I didn't get into this story.
I tried.
It's Julia Quinn.
It's the Bridgertons.
I persevered.
I'm bummed because I love this series so far and it may take someone giving me a ginormous shove to go to book 5.
Colin was a poo.
People did not treat her kindly, even Mr. I'm So Into Me, Colin.
Sheesh, nothing more to say other than, well, this book was "meh".
Let the food fight begin.
I don't know why I found this book as disappointing when I first read it, but now? I found it VERY DELIGHTFUL to read...ORIGINAL REVIEWOkay, first let me just say that Colin Bridgerton is my favorite among the eight siblings. I know everybody who've read this series would say the same. But his story, kinda disappoint me. JUst a tiny, little, iota of disappointment .But at least we already know who Lady Whistledown is.
