https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29347151-the-secret-of-greylands
Cynthia quarrels with her husband over this and then promptly leaves him to go live with Lady Hannah Gillman, an older relative she has not seen in many years.
Cynthia finds the house shut up with Henry Gillman, Hannah's husband, guarding the entrance.
He reminded me of the Doorman in "The Wizard of Oz," popping his head out the door and peremptorily refusing entry to Cynthia, but eventually reneging and acting like it was his idea the whole time.
However, I am inclined to think that Ms Haynes was serious, as depressing as that sounds.
This is the second book I have read by this, 'time has forgotten' golden age writer.
It's got that neglected and forlorn house in the moors which contains a dark mystery plot, to which, I have been drawn to since my days as a child, when I would sneak out of my bedroom late at night to watch movies, hoping my parents wouldn't catch me.
Unfortunately, this plot line is a well trodden path and this time there was not enough unexpected turns to make it work.
I liked the other book I read well enough and I will read more by this author, but this one, I have to rate as a bit of a let down.
Hilariously gothic, terrifyingly byronic and huge fun - with more rugged moreland than a Bronte novel! Its downside was I didn't like any of the characters, especially the heroine who is wet and judgmental in equal measure. Also, Haynes ducks out of writing a decent denuement to the plot with a convenient death. Definitely worth a read though - but not with the light off, especially if you live in a rambling pile of a house that's seen better days!
I agree with the reviewers that said this book is more like Victorian gothic than a golden age mystery.
I didn't hate it but it was hard to believe anyone could be as unaware and oblivious as these characters were.
The main character could not deal with any kind of stress and ran away from her husband because of something he did before they were married.
The safe space she ran to was not safe at all and she faints and her bottom lip trembles and eventually she gets rescued.
I may try another book by this author in the future but probably not.
No doubt who the murderer is but wondering how the heroine can escape keeps you reading til the end.
