https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161540.The_Courtship_of_Princess_Leia
One of the best "Star Wars" novels!  BEGINNING THE PATH OF THE FORCE This was my very first novel about Star Wars!When I read it, back then in 1996, therefore it has always been very special to me.I chose it since by then I knew that Han and Leia had married at some time and they have kids, but I wondered how they tied the knot, and certainly when you have characters as Han and Leia, I was sure that it couldn't been your typical "courtship".So, when I saw the book in a bookstore, I didn't medit
To my happy surprise, when I was checking some months ago (like in 2014) about which novels of Star Wars can be good options, I was truly glad that this novel, The Courtship of Princess Leia figured in many, many lists of several people, so, I was way happy that if I hadn't read much at that point, at least I had chosen one of the really good ones.I love this book, since if you are fan of the "old" trilogy, you will find all the classic elements that you love of that trilogy, but even one very good thing, now realizing in retrospective, not matter that it was written more than 15 years ago, the story feature elements that in that moment were a novelty but now they are being quite developed even in the recent animated series of Clone Wars.
To call this fanfiction is an insult to fanfiction And somehow this book is on so many "best-of-Star-Wars Expanded Universe" lists, and everyone's all nostalgic about it??Look at it:Let's examine the main elements of this cover.- Han Solo in a turtleneck- Princess Leia in a wedding dress that doesn't look like it's going to stay on- R2D2 and some stormtroopers looking lost as heck (there are no stormtroopers in the book) - Alien Micheal BoltonI should have known better.
After less than 30 pages, Leia decides she no longer loves Han and wants to marry Micheal Bolton Page 37: "Look, I don't know why people would even think that I'd marry the prince.
There are many plot threads, but Leia and Han are often the main focus.--Is it a good romance novel?HELL NO.SUMMARYHan Solo comes back from (apparently) destroying Warlord Zsinj's Super Star Destroyer to find that the Hapes Consortium has sent a buttload of ships and gifts to the New Republic.
They're willing to ally with the New Republic, on a few conditions: Princess Leia has to accept all their crap, and oh yeah, marry Crown Prince Isolder as well.In a totally OOC move, Han wins the planet Dathomir in a sabacc game.
I've seen a lot of reviews comparing this book to fan fiction. I think that's really doing an injustice to authors of fan fiction.
This book hurts my brain. I don't buy Wolverton's characterization of Han and Leia for a second. Also, there are witches? A planet of Amazonian female witches? Seriously? The EU novels are basically published fan fiction and, honestly, I've read better on the internets.
"I'm supposed to be happy that we're going to crash into the planet instead of blow up in space?"My quest to review all the previous Star Wars Expanded Universe books I read in my teenaged years continues!Leia Organa has been campaigning to get the powerful Hapan Cluster to aid the New Republic in its fight against the Imperial Remnant led by Warlord Zsinj.
Nigh on one hundred pages in, and I simply put could not suffer through anymore because I am a Star Wars fan and this book was doing as good a job as Lucas and his recent film outings to extinguish that love permanently.I have never read any Dave Wolverton before, and given the poor quality of writing exhibited in this book he is an author I will stay away from in the future.
To be honest I barely remember the plot of this book, but it had Dark Side witches riding on Rancors, & what else do you want? There's not much else I want from the Star Wars EU than that. -MK.
Although it was not the most well written of the Star Wars books I have read, it was what sucked me into reading them in the first place.
I am a sucker for romance, and you just can't beat it between Han and Leia.
In this book, they have drifted apart though the business of their duties, but Han is forced to go to extreme measures when Leia is about to be married of to the Prince of the Happes Consortium.
After a winning her a planet in a sabac game, he kidnapps her and takes her to it, which is when the real story begins, as they encounter "Force witches" and other problems.
Which would make sense and be a good conflict!
(He's already in love with after seeing her once or something.) I seriously thought there was some mind control going on here because I didn't buy it at all.Meanwhile, everyone (including Leia!) acts as if Han is weird for having a problem with this whole deal.So then Han kidnaps Leia.Right.And, of course, there's a lot about each man "stealing" Leia from the other.I don't know.
(I don't think Han/Leia even needed a conflict.
BTW, he (view spoiler)[quickly falls in love with someone else and marries her SO I GUESS EVERYONE IS HAPPY????
...Well, that certainly was an experience. I'm so glad this book isn't canon anymore.I have no idea how to even begin summarizing this experience, so I think we're just going to have to list things out. Good things about this book 1. This book invented the Nightsisters. And the Nightsisters are awesome. I love their interpretation of the Force as magic, and I think they have a lot of really interesting potential.2. I was warned that Luke gets raped by Nightsisters in this book, but he doesn't. B
I'm so glad this book isn't canon anymore.I have no idea how to even begin summarizing this experience, so I think we're just going to have to list things out.
I was warned that Luke gets raped by Nightsisters in this book, but he doesn't.
Isolder looked like some barbaric god come to life.Han looked at Isolder's gray eyes, at the golden hair cascading down his shoulders and the strong, handsome face, and he could not see how Leia could resist such a man.
Luke is such a Force evangelist in this book.
Ugh.Plus, Han and Isolder treat Leia like a prize to be won.
I just want everyone to know that I checked this book out of the library every other month and all I wanted from life was the wedding dress Leia is wearing on the cover.
Leia finds a cluster of planets known as the Hapes consortium that could give her aid, but, in order to seal the deal, she must marry the Queen Mother's son.
Though there was a lot of suspense--more than I was expecting, given the romantic nature of the title--it was a bit light on action, which may disappoint some fans.Content Concerns:Sex: Kissing at worst.
4/5Violence: Action sequences are present, but there's nothing graphic.
5/5Frightening/Intense Scenes: The end battle is a bit freaky.
4/5Other: Some may object to some characters being known as "witches".

12-28-16: Orginally read ages ago, but reread upon the recent death of Carrie Fisher. While Fisher was and will always be an icon, (May she rest in peace!!)this book remains pretty terrible.Anyone have any GOOD EU books (or comics) featuring Leia prominently?
Such a great book. It picks up right where "Return of the Jedi" leaves off, and it is such a fun read for fans of the films.
There will not be much new here in my condemnation of this novel.To be honest, I just wanted to see the now non-canon story of how Leia and Han actually married.
I've read so much Zahn lately, and in those books Leia and Han are an established, loving couple, and I got to see the development of Mara and Luke's relationship.
While it seemed natural that Han and Leia would stay in love after Return of the Jedi, Wolverton managed to quickly wreck their relationship and then leave them as a horrible couple.More generally, all of the characters are written, well, out-of-character.
I'm probably being generous giving this a two-star rating."The Courtship of Princess Leia" is, as the title suggests, the story of how Han Solo eventually woos Leia's hand in marriage.
His only downtime are the occasional times he can get back to Coruscant to see Leia.Unfortunately for Han, Prince Isolder of the Hapes consortium (a group of planetary systems controlled by a somewhat benevolent Queen) has made a proposition with Leia.
He has asked for her hand in marriage, and in return, the New Republic will control the Hapes consortium.
The first "Star Wars Extended Universe" book I ever read (May 1995). I was surprised to like it, and it led to me reading more EU books. This one I had to reread largely for the Han Solo and C-3PO sections, which I found really funny. But Isolder is such an oaf!
I totally geeked out on SW books back in the 90's and this one was my favorite. There's romance <3 and witches! and it's totally Han-centric! What more could you want.
DID NOT FINISH. If the thread of misogyny that weaves its way throughout this insipid tale doesn't delight you then perhaps the thrilling manner in which your favs are written completely out of character will enchant you instead.
It's been quite a few years since I've read this (and I'll probably go back and reread this), but this was the story that sold me on the Han x Leia relationship. I always shipped them in the movies and knew that they got together and had a family, but it was reading this book that made me ship them and be one of my favorite couples.Also, I'm mad that the EU imploded so Disney didn't use this story for Eps 7, 8, and 9.Recommended 13+ for romance (again, I don't remember anything besides the main story line)
What a hot space mess of a book. The writing was straight-up weird, and everyone---with the possible exception of Luke, were hilariously out of character. I do see why Dathomir gets used in a lot of other Star Wars material, the world-building was the only good thing about this book. Basically this book was on crack but I'm Star Wars trash so I had a good time reading it.
If you read one Star Wars book, read Shatterpoint. If you read two, read this one. Who knew that a good romance could be made out of the events leading up to Han and Leia's wedding? Brilliant action, a cool alien society, and Luke and Han at top form.
Sure, I'm a girl who loves Leia and Han. OF COURSE I WOULD LOVE THIS BOOK. Some of the most romantic dialogue ever uttered on screen was from this couple. I love Amazons in Greek mythology-- but Amazon witches? Weird. Very enjoyable!
One of my favorites in the Star Wars fiction line.We get to see Han and Leia's romance flourish - and we travel to the incredibly interesting world of Dathomir.
El mayor de ellos, el crecimiento de Luke en los caminos de la Fuerza, no solo volviéndose más fuerte sino también más sabio y empezando a vislumbrar cómo podrá ser cuando llegue a ser un Maestro Jedi y qué lecciones enseñará a sus futuros alumnos.
Y el final, como era de esperar, la boda de Leia.Aún así, me he quedado con las ganas de saber qué se escondía en los archivos de los Jedi, cosa que espero descubrir en los próximos libros.Una historia de Star Wars que pasa sin pena ni gloria pero que ayuda, sobre todo, a comprender los caminos de la Fuerza.
Sometimes I was like man I’m so glad the EU was discarded and this book never officially happened. And then sometimes I think about TLJ and I wish that the EU still happened. But I love one (1) couple and I’m glad they’re now happily married in the EU (glares at sequel trilogy).
4.25 stars. I enjoyed my experience reading this. I loved seeing the banter between Han and Leia.I know their relationship has never been perfect, but I still love seeing this.
I loved how the first part of this book was like a romantic comedy. It is always great to see Star Wars characters taken into other genres.
