https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184889.The_Benevent_Treasure
An intriguing mystery involving an ancient British country home, a long-missing aide to two little old ladies, and their legendary treasure. Spoiler alert: the treasure is found, but not before tragedy strikes again.
The Benevent Treasure is best classified as a novel of suspense.
There is a murder in the last quarter of the book, but by that point the reader is so engrossed in the goings on at Underhill that it really just serves to heighten the drama.Underhill is the name of the ancient house in the English countryside built by Ugo di Benevento upon his arrival in Britain from Italy.
It has everything a good book or movie could want: a heroine, a hero, a romance, a sprawling old manse filled with secret passages and talk of treasure, strong supporting characters and tight plotting.
A number of lovely ladies from the cozy mystery group on Goodreads recommended reading Patricia Wentworth. They said, “If you like Agatha Christie’s Miss Marple, you’ll love Patricia Wentworth’s Miss Silver.” Well, having recently read a little Agatha Christie and quite enjoying it, I simply had to try Patricia Wentworth. These ladies were absolutely correct. I love Miss Silver and I adore Patricia Wentworth’s writing. This was a fun mystery with eccentric aunts, a hidden treasure, and even a little romance. I will definitely be reading more Patricia Wentworth.
The Benevent Treasure (Miss Silver #26), Patricia Wentworth
Eccentric and co-dependent, the Misses Cara and Olivia Benevent make Candida uncomfortable, especially after she has a dream that these two women were the same who nearly drew her to her death on the coast five years earlier.
Cara Benevent, a poor soul who only wants love but who has been browbeaten by Olivia for so many years, she is withdrawn and skittish.Miss Silver comes in - only when called and takes charge of the situation, knitting needles in hand, rising to the occasion in the final pages of the book.
Number 26 in the Miss Silver series. If you fancy a good British mystery story and like little old ladies who can somehow remain unobtrusive yet solve the crime, then I would suggest you try this series.The story begins with a short prelude. Here we meet Candida Sayle, who will become the main character in due time, who is then 15 and has gone to a seaside hotel to wait for a friend who is delayed. She decides to take a walk along the beach, and is told by two other guests at the place that it s
If you fancy a good British mystery story and like little old ladies who can somehow remain unobtrusive yet solve the crime, then I would suggest you try this series.The story begins with a short prelude.
Along comes help, though, in the form of Stephen, who is out birdwatching and hears her cries for help.Fast forward five years, and we now meet the older Candida, whose guardian-aunt has just died and left Candida with no prospects.
Luckily for all involved, Miss Silver just happens to be visiting a cousin in the area, but she is also there to investigate the disappearance some time back of a young man named Alan Thompson.
but then I read the entire book and realized that it was not a mystery at all (unless, I guess, you are considerably mentally disadvantaged and manage to miss the giant clues that she keeps hitting you over the head with) but instead is one of our old friends, a classic Women Fleeing Architecture Gothic Romance.
Old British mystery/gothic writers could actually write and it all flies along nicely with little sharp sentences spiced with Wodehousian period slang, so, you know, ripping yarn, what?
A bit slow in the middle but the last part of the book really took off and I enjoyed it very much.Will have to say that having read a few Miss Silver mysteries, I found that she usually doesn't show up till half way or even near the end of a story to solve the mystery.
Combined together made up for some interesting personality conflicts and contributions towards the crime.I'm glad I read this but am sorry that as a reader I wasn't privy to Miss Silver's thought process on how she comes up with the solution to the many crimes she solves.
This started well and certainly held my interest until the end, but I'm not quite sure why Miss Silver's assistance was required, as there wasn't really much of a mystery and it was quite clear from the start what was going on. I did enjoy the entertainingly homicidal Miss Olivia.
26 in a series is long past when I would expect it it go off the boil, but no Wentworth found us yet another character to truly dislike and wish dead. Yes they are formulaic but who cares when you are checking the page number and complaining that someone isn’t dead yet each time.
(view spoiler)[I suspected the two old ladies at the boarding-house or whatever it was of being the great aunts as soon as I heard of their existence and wondered why they wanted Candida with them.
I suspected Olivia of murdering Alan Thompson as soon as his story appeared - I didn't need the cleaning lady's story to tell me there was something wrong there, but I think the way it was done was impressively heartless.
I do wonder whether Olivia or Anna murdered Joseph, but I'm inclined to suspect Olivia and feel that if nothing else, she owed it to Anna.
I obtained this actual edition with the creepy skele-hand on the cover!!
A nice easy listening audio book - well-read and enjoyable. I am a fan of the Miss Silver mysteries and this is one of the better ones. It is fairly obvious whodunit, but that does not detract from the main story. The characters are, as always, well-written and the plot moves at a steady pace. All-in-all, a good read.
Another great book with Miss Silver. This book repeated itself often & rambled quite a bit. But Patricia Wentworth has another good murder mystery.
I think this one of Patricia Wentworth’s best! Several intrigues & a host of characters!
This is one of her best, a really great old mystery.
I just could not connect with the main character Candida.
One of the darker Miss Silver books.
This was a fun, old-fashioned read. I enjoyed the twists and turns of the plot and the steadfastness of Ms. Silver.
Agatha Christie is ever my preference if I'm rereading, but sometimes I want a story I don't know inside and out, in which case I can turn to Patricia Wentworth, because there are still over a dozen of her books I haven't gotten to yet.
The early Miss Silvers are worlds better than the ones written later, and so this one should fall into the poorer category, but two things redeemed it: there weren't any truly terrible men either demanding that the heroine love them or getting her love despite his actually being an abusive prick; the treasure was a new detail to the series.
Une vieille dame qui s’immisce dans toutes les maisons, qui écoute les différents protagonistes qui gravitent autour d’un meurtre et qui finit par dénouer les fils de l’intrigue avant de désigner l’assassin, ça vous rappelle quelqu’un ?
Là où Christie s’attache avant tout à l’intrigue, miss Silver sert aussi d’entremetteuse dans chacune de ses affaires et les histoires d’amour sans intérêt et délayées rallongent inutilement.
C’est dommage car cela alourdit inutilement une histoire par ailleurs réussie.
L’intérêt n’est pas tant la recherche de l’assassin lui-même que la quête du trésor et comment les morts ont été tués.
Orphan Candida Sale is understandably dubious when great aunts she has never met, from the family that threw her grandmother out for marrying beneath her, contact her and ask her to come stay with them at Underhill Manor.
The longer she stays, the more dubious Candida becomes; what do the aunts want of her?
What happens to anyone who crosses Olivia Benevent?
What I appreciated about Wentworth, though, is that her characters don't pretend not to be aware of Olivia's character when things start to happen, and no one believes her lies.
Miss Silver will solve the mystery in order to facilitate the young couple's engagement.
(They always get engaged; there is no such thing as "dating" in this world.) Miss Silver will liberally quote Tennyson as she investigates, and Frank Abbott will usually make an appearance.
There is never any discussion of how much she charges or how she collects her fees.Miss Silver is always described as elderly, but she never actually gets any older.
The publication dates of the books range from the 1930s to the 1950s, and time definitely passes (for example, books published after WWII refer to the "postwar" world), but Miss Silver's age never changes.What can be learned from this book?
Get past page 100 and things start happening....spooky things, murderous things....and then it is well nigh impossible to put the book down!It's a tale of two elderly sisters, one young woman, one old mansion, buried treasure and a controversial inheritance.
Although extremely well written, there was, at times, a feeling of things being a little "far fetched" - especially the likelihood that Candida would meet exactly the same man who rescued her from a cliff-face five years previously whilst on a weekend away, when he is called to the mansion to sort out some wall cracks.
This is the first Miss Silver book I have read, though I believe Patricia Wentworth wrote many of these.
It did stand very well as a story in it's own right - you don't need to read the previous books to understand the storyline in this.Although it's a Miss Silver book, the detective is not the lead character, rather she makes a few appearances and doesn't really become a major character until at least half way through the story.
I certainly will read more of these stories.
She does creepy people very well, does Ms. Wentworth.
Her books are well-written & enjoyable.
Miss Silver is a classic &, oh so Victorian.back cover:Somewhere among the dust and cobwebs of the Benevent family home lies hidden the legendary Benevent treasure.
But a terrible death has been prophesied for all who dare uncover it.
But soon they become impossible to ignore.
Soon she is quite convinced that somewhere, somehow, among the gloomy vaults of the Benevent's country home, those ancient prophecies will be horribly fulfilled.
It takes all Miss Silver's ingenuity to divert the Benevent curse...
Two unknown great-aunts invite her to live with them in their very old house, built onto medieval foundations.
This would be a gothic thriller if it weren't for the life in the nearby village.
The aunts want to wall Candida off from outside people, except that for some unexplained reason they want her to learn to drive, and the lessons take her into the village.The Benevent house is sinister, and I don't take to gothic thrillers, so I am grateful for the inclusion of Miss Silver and Steven Eversley, who are anxious to come to Candida's rescue.
This was my first Miss Silver mystery and I was disappointed that Miss Silver really did not help solve the mysteries of this novel.
Olivia Benevent lured her sister's suitor/their male secretary (Alan Thompson) to his death by showing him the treasure with the hinged death-trap.
The butler Joseph Rossi saw to the demise of Cara Benevent to keep her from telling that she had found what had happened to her suitor/their male secretary, as well as keep the location of the treasure a lasting family secret.
Olivia Benevent was the one who tried to hide her niece, Candida Sayle, away to starve to her death.
#26 My first Miss Silver book, and probably my last. It was almost a parody of an old-fashioned mystery, done in total stereotype. Closer to those romance novels than a good mystery, I've been packing, and this was one I left out to read, to see if it was worth hanging onto, and trying to find more Patricia Wentworth. Perhaps I made the mistake of reading a very much better book directly following, and therefore this suffered more my comparison. I read Josephine Tey's "Miss Pym Disposes" yesterday, and liked it so much better. Sorry, Miss Silver.
A young woman at loose ends receives an unexpected invitation to visit her great-aunts and repair an old family quarrel. With Miss Silver’s help, past and current mysteries are eventually somewhat horribly revealed. “[The hall] was hung with tapestry which gave out a mouldy smell. For the most part the subject was lost in gloom and grime, but from a rather horrid glimpse of a sword and a severed head she conjectured that this was perhaps just as well.”
