https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854320.The_Door_with_Seven_Locks
A bit more Gothic than the other Wallace books I've read. Perky but swooning heroine. Reserved but smitten hero. Pathetic monsters in the dark. Creepy tomb. Creepy house. Still, a fun read.
Combines a mystery thriller plot with considerable dashes of gothic horror, and just the faintest hint of science fiction. It’s a bizarre mix, but through sheer bravado Wallace somehow makes it work.
Was just about to say how nice it was to find a vintage mystery that wasn't racist when I remembered that one of the most reprehensible and sinister characters was Italian/Greek. Apart from that, was a pretty good read. The actual plot behind the mystery was needlessly convoluted, but I enjoyed the fact that the detective in this UK set mystery was Canadian, and the writer seemed to be taking something of a noir approach rather than the classic mystery line.
Persino troppo avvincente. L'ho trovato un giallo "troppo", ecco. Troppi elementi strani, troppe scene-madri, troppi intrecci.
The Door With Seven Locks is an enjoyable read, but hard to pin down.
It is in parts, but by no means equal parts, a Gothic mystery, a horror story, a lighthearted romance, an H.G. Wells-style sci-fi story, and police procedural, with dashes of whimsy and terror.
Early in the book, the hero, Dick Martin, goes on a whirlwind trip around the world in search of a globe-trotting millionaire.
The plot is suitably mysterious but easy to follow.
Brilliant Dick Martin, of course, already knew the solution long before.Overall, The Door With Seven Locks is an odd book but a good read.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book even though I had solved the mystery 2/3 of the way through the story. The book reads like a Saturday matinee serial with quick chapters, lots of action and cliff hangers. The romance at the end feels tacked on. There is no reason for the detective and the librarian to fall for each other!
Have only just discovered Edgar Wallace (Have also read The Joker). He deserves more current day recognition as a highly skilled crime writer. This is typical of his pacy detective stories with a gothic horror theme and eugenics and a hint of romance thrown in for good measure. Good stuff!
Could not put it down!
The first Edgar Wallace I've read; it was quite decent.
Ωστόσο στο μυθιστόρημα, όπως είναι αυτό, αλλάζει το στιλ του.
Βέβαια δε χάνει το χιούμορ του, παρότι είναι εξασθενημένο μέσα στο μυθιστόρημα σε σχέση με το διήγημα.
Εν ολίγοις, είναι διασκεδαστικό, αλλά λίγο κουραστικό.Μαζί του, μας παραχωρεί ο εκδότης και το διήγημα Ο δήμιος με το τριαντάφυλλο, στο οποίο συναντάμε όλα τα στοιχεία που τον κάνουν δυνατό στο διήγημα.
Αν και δεν υπάρχει κανένα μυστήριο και όλα είναι αναμενόμενα, πρόκειται για γοητευτικό διήγημα… μα υπάρχει άραγε τίποτα πιο συγκινητικό από ένα μεγάλο καράβι που κορνάρει μόνο του τη νύχτα στην ομίχλη;2.5
A short but interesting detective story.
Dick Martin plans for an early retirement from the police force seeking a quite life.
But as he takes leave, he finds himself engaged with a curious case which he sets his mind on solving.
What dangers did he face in understanding the mystery behind the door with seven locks?The book is a quick read and can be finished in a day or two.It is really interesting that Edgar Wallace, the author, penned over 170 novels, 957 short stories and several non-fiction and poetry volumes.
Most of his novels were made into movies.

Ritengo questo libro uno dei capostipiti del genere poliziesco dove tra folli e fantomatici viaggi e intrighi scientifici con corpulenti cavie di laboratorio, il sagace ex-poliziotto Dick Martin deve far luce sulla nebbia che circonda l'imponente mausoleo della famiglia Selfor.Così la scorrevole e raffinata penna di Wallace descrive le avventure del protagonista con sfumature rimantiche ed estenuanti attimi di suspense.
Mais um policial Britânico clássico com extraordinária qualidade.
See my review of "The Feathered Serpent" but with a less satisfactory ending.
Or Maybe it was Only the Free Gutenberg.org Copy I Read ???
feedbooks_book_1808.epub http://www.feedbooks.com/book/1808 Gutenberg.net.au I Have the FeedBooks Copy TOO !!!
eBook Version ...Dick Martin is leaving Scotland Yard.
His final job, investigating a stolen book, takes him via a conversation with the librarian Sybil Lansdown to Gallows Cottage and a meeting with Doctor Stalletti.
Arriving home, Martin finds Lew Pheeney being followed by a man for whom he recently worked.
'Doing what?' demands Martin.
Lew finally confesses.
His narrative has a choppy cadence that was distracting at first and I almost stopped reading because of it.
Fast read.
I heard about this book on the Classic Mysteries podcast.
A fun mystery that is pretty light though there is a LOT going on; we don't even see the door with the seven locks until the middle of the book.
Dick Martin is with the Scotland Yard, but he's retiring to write mystery stories.
But Dick has to run out and when he returns, the man is dead.
Throw in some very large men, that lost heir, the family crypt, a mysterious doctor (who apparently has some interesting theories on genetics) and you have an very interesting story indeed.
An enjoyable enough read but not one of the best books by Wallace. I just found out that a film adaptation was made in 1940, I will definitely try to see it if I get a chance.
Good storyA good mix of intrigue set in turn of the century Great Britain. Some violence, a little romance. Well written but not a very good edition; if typos and inconsistent alignment bother you, this is not the edition for you.
Τα μυθιστορήματα του Ουάλλας είναι γεμάτα από ολοζώντανο ρεαλισμό και ανατομικές γνώσεις της ψυχολογίας των εγκληματιών. Στην εποχή του θεωρήθηκε ο πιο δημοφιλής μυθιστοριογράφος και δραματικός συγγραφέας. Αναμενόμενο αλλά συναρπαστικό βιβλίο.
A.L. Burt, 1925
Posljednji zadatak Dicka Martina prije napuštanja Scotland Yarda. naravno da ništa neće poći kako bi trebalo...
8/10. Ar visai šokējošiem secinājumiem, it īpaši tādam gana mierīgam autoram. Interesanta stāsta līnija un piesaistoši galvenie varoņi.
Blech!
By no means my favourite Edgar Wallace, but it's not bad--full of all the usual suspense, melodrama and capital-R Romance!
"Гробницата със седемте ключалки"друго издание217 стр
A strange book starts out as a normal murder mystery and then strays into a kind of fantasy and then just for good measure throws in a bit of romance as well.
Interessante intreccio giallo dai toni cupi e ispirato alle avventure di Sherlock Holmes.
Una trama ben costruita ma alcune lacune per quanto riguarda il personaggio del dottor Stalletti e i risultati dei suoi studi.
Good times but weak compared to some of the others in this series. Still, a page turner, however with a rather lack-lustre ending.
