https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7141642-the-thousand-autumns-of-jacob-de-zoet
In this historical novel, an unassuming Dutch bookkeeper named Jacob de Zoet falls in love with a beautiful midwife in 18th-century Japan. When Miss Aiba-gawa is spirited away to a mountain monastery, Jacob finds the heroism in his soul. Here is a bygone secret world full of charm and horror. Mitchell is best known for Cloud Atlas, which was a literary stunt in this correspondent’s opinion. The Thousand Autumns is far better.
Remember Dr. Seuss's words, children: "Oh, the Places You'll Go!" In the case of wunderkind writer David Mitchell's THE THOUSAND AUTUMNS OF JACOB DE ZOET, you'll set your time machine dial for 1799 and a makeshift Dutch port called Dejima on the shores of Nagasaki, Japan.
And you'll even hit the low seas (off Dejima) and join British Captain Penhaligon as he wrestles with his conscience and his wits, trying to decide whether to attack the Dutch and Japanese or negotiate with them.
An irascible and complex man, Marinus was one of my favorites, though his role was rather minor.Bigger roles go, of course, to Jacob and the disfigured Japanese midwife he falls in love with, Orito Aibagawa.
We are tantalized with recurrent themes, unexplained symbols, ties between distant story lines (indeed, between entire novels!), and I've been having a hell of a time trying to reconstruct it all into some kind of meaning.The reviews that have helped bring some coherence to my thoughts, though, are those by the Irish Times and the Times of London, both of which point out the importance of bridging divides between people, cultures, worlds.
Marinus and his Japanese colleagues by medicine and botany.Dejima, like other frontiers, is also a crucible for morality, and we are constantly reminded of what can befall those who fail to bridge divides and continue to see other people and cultures as entirely alien.
This book really demonstrates the enormous canvass of the uber-book that Mitchell is planning years ahead, over many volumes, some more closely connected than others.An autumn breeze drags its invisible robes around the fine room.Note: It’s hard to manage all my interconnected reviews of Mitchell’s books, but they are all here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/list...What sort of novel is this?This is a single, largely chronological, story, told in three main sections.A gibbous moon is grubby.
This section relates most closely to The Bone Clocks, but also has echoes of (view spoiler)[The Handmaid’s Tale, https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
After six weeks of hard battling, only three are left.* It's the Apprentice Week Six!(We see a montage of the three remaining contestants, David Mitchell, Hilary Mantel and Sarah Waters frantically typing away on laptops).This week's task : to write a complete historical novel in only seven days.
He has cross-checked certain details with Wikipedia.He has read all three books.Hilary, Sarah and David are back in the boardroom.One of them will be fired tonight.Lord Sugar speaksI've had a chance to look through your novels and I gotta say I got a few problems.

Clerk Jacob de Zoet, the unlikely hero of our novel, could be another Adam Ewing from 'Cloud Atlas' or a version of Mitchell himself - a passive observer of human fallacies stranded in a zone of conflict where all participants have reluctantly negotiated an uneasy truce, an oblivious witness to a crucial juncture in history.
Rating: two headachey stars out of fiveThe Publisher Says: In 1799, Jacob de Zoet disembarks on the tiny island of Dejima, the Dutch East India Company’s remotest trading post in a Japan otherwise closed to the outside world.
He cannot foresee how disastrously each will be betrayed by someone they trust, nor how intertwined and far-reaching the consequences.Duplicity and integrity, love and lust, guilt and faith, cold murder and strange immortality stalk the stage in this enthralling novel, which brings to vivid life the ordinary—and extraordinary—people caught up in a tectonic shift between East and West.My Review: This book is very pleasantly written, taken line by line, and is an interesting window onto a time I find underexplored.
I knew he had written something about clouds and dreams and this looked pretty so I took it home with me.It is a book about Jacob de Zoet, who in 1799 arrives as a clerk on Dejima, an artificial island near Nagasaki and the only point of contact between Japan and the outside world.
I know that authors think they can get away with just about anything in the middle of the book but don’t you think you are pushing your luck a little bit here?”.
I really don’t know what to make out of this book.
'The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet' is witty... fascinating... surprising... magnificent!Dejima Island where the action takes place (Wikipedia)Note:This "review" is no more than an opinion. For an excellent and thoroughly comprehensive review, may I suggest that you read Cecily's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
So far my experiences with this author:* Cloud Atlas 3 stars.
I found it well written, interesting but ultimately confusing.* The Bone Clocks 4 stars.
I enjoyed this one very much.* Slade House 5 stars.
I loved this one totally!Now what do I say about The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet?Firstly can any one tell me what the title is supposed to mean?Quick summary of my feelings about the book - beautifully written, perfect descriptions of the settings, interesting characters, a good story somewhat buried in the abundance of text.
I liked it.
I liked Jacob.
It is a book to remember.
As a result, he has the greatest opportunity to learn about and appreciate Japanese people and culture.He soon discovers that he shares an affinity with the Japanese translator Ogawa, one which extends to an affection for the midwife Orito, the daughter of a highly respected, but debt-ridden, samurai.A Scroll of a Hundred ThingsThe novel begins with a birth and ends with a death.
Like all great art and desire, it is both perpetrated and perpetuated by words and images.Orito's fan (exchanged for a persimmon, (view spoiler)[if not perhaps an artichoke (hide spoiler)])The Ghost of Future RegretStill, it is "a story that must move...and misfortune is motion.
Now Mitchell could have written it rather conventionally like this (and note that all I am doing is rearranging the exact wording that he uses with the sole addition indicated in square brackets.)A pickled dragon of Kandy bears an uncanny resemblance to Anna’s father, and Jacob recalls a fateful conversation with the gentleman in his Rotterdam drawing-room.
The lamprey’s O-shaped mouth is a grinding mill of razor-sharp Vs and Ws.Instead, Mitchell writes it this way:A pickled dragon of Kandy bears an uncanny resemblance to Anna’s father, and Jacob recalls a fateful conversation with the gentleman in his Rotterdam drawing-room.
When I got home I ordered several reproductions of my favorite pieces.Coincidentally, during my trip to Boston, I was reading Cloud Atlas, and was becoming one of the millions to fall under its spell, and so when shortly thereafter I saw Mitchell’s new book in my local bookstore sporting a Hiroshige print on its cover (the very same one shown above, in fact, titled “Sugatami Bridge, Omokage Bridge”), and when I saw that it was set in Nagasaki during the Edo period at the turn of the 19th century, I immediately put my request in at the library and bided my time.Edo-era Japan was notoriously insular, and the island of Dejima, the geographic locus of this novel, epitomizes that insularity: Dutch traders to Japan could not set foot in the Japanese nation, but this tiny artificial island in Nagasaki bay could house the Dutch garrison because it was not technically Japanese soil.
If I hadn't read and loved all of David Mitchell's other novels, I think I'd have abandoned ship after the first hundred pages.
Then one day the beguiling Orito Aibagawa, a Dutch-trained midwife, catches his eye, and life will never be the same again.The story is split into five sections and to be honest it doesn't really get going until the second part (p199!).
But once the luckless Orito's fortunes take a turn for the worst, the plot kicks into action.
But Mitchell's literary talents are still a wonder to behold - this is another ambitious, intricate story, told with signature elegance and flair.
Fizzing with life, it appears at first to be a conventional historical novel, but then swoops into speculative fiction that is reminiscent of Margaret Atwood or Kazuo Ishiguro, with human babies being 'farmed' for nefarious reasons, then back to the historical world and a wonderfully exciting naval stand-off, where Our Hero is saved by his red hair.
James Wood, a critic who I admire greatly, has to go far to find fault, but he does manage it.
But I don't agree: I see that question of the red hair as essential: small details can have huge repercussions that none of us could ever foresee.
I dig Mitchell's ability to write in several, very different authorial voices, and his blending of lit-fic and Sci-Fi. I expected to love this book, and I was disappointed.The Thousand Autumns of Jacob De Zoet begins well, and presents an interesting set of characters in a colorful setting.
Sadly, The Thousand Autumns of Jacob De Zoet did not float my Dutch East India Company Merchantman in the same way Mitchell's other books did.I was enjoying, if not loving the story until the aforementioned testicular assault occurred.
Deliverance comes for Jacob and Orito, however, at the end, but not in any way envisaged by them.Mitchell's novel is panoramic in sweep and flawless in execution.
His technique is cinematic: sentences follow the principles of montage, so that each thought process of a character, each speech is interspersed with happenings in the surroundings (in fact, all the while I was reading this novel, I was running a movie in my mind: especially part two in the Shiranui shrine which was in Multicolour and Panavision and directed by Kurosawa).
I was confused at the end on what the author was trying to say through this novel.
The entire middle section of the book rests on a fantastical plot element--an evil religious sect that kidnaps one of the main characters--that is never explained, in the sense that I expected some sort of author's note at the end.
I found de Zoet's meandering path through life to make for interesting reading, and the parts of the book that aren't overwritten are well-written.
The cross-cultural suspicions and friendships were more interesting to me than the attempt at romance, especially all the details of the ways the Japanese and Dutch bent, oh so slightly, to accommodate each other's culture.
It's so close to a 5 and someday I may return and decide it is.The story grabbed me from the start and I believe that has to have some connection to Mitchell's skills as a writer and story teller as well as the story itself as tales of the sea and exploration are usually of no interest to me.
I liked the doctor, felt I came to know Jacob through his actions and how he was reflected in others eyes and actions.So many responses to this novel.
3.5 stars A fascinating historical novel centering around the idea of translation and the suspension between two cultures, two worlds, two loves. I thought it excelled, as Mitchell always does, at witty, realistic dialogue. What it lacked in movement, it made up for in deep character study and a compelling main character. Not my favorite Mitchell, but certainly not my least favorite.
Jacob was an earnest young Dutchmen amongst the motley assemblage at a remote trading post on Dejima, an island near Nagasaki.
He’s also very good with character development as we see with Jacob, Orito, and various translators, magistrates, and seafarers.
In fact, there is a section at the end where Mitchell appends a short essay on the topic of historical fiction.
He said he’d tried earlier to apply the antiquated language of the times, making “extensive word lists to incorporate into [his] text—and ended up with Blackadder.” He also mentioned the danger in showing off his recently acquired scholarship at the expense of narrative flow.
One of my favorite books - this was my third or fourth reading of Mitchell's wonderful work that is historical fiction, but also entirely transcendent of the genre.Set in Nagasaki, Japan on the artificial island of Dejima, the plot revolves around the titular Jacob de Zoet, a clerk with the Dutch East India Company, and Orito, the slightly scarred midwife whose beauty and intelligence captivate Jacob (and other characters besides).
And the importance and love of language the characters hold, Mitchell holds as well.
Άλλωστε, εκείνη την περίοδο η Ιαπωνία ήταν απομονωμένη από τον υπόλοιπο κόσμο και έπρεπε να περάσουν χρόνια, μέχρι το 1854, για να αρχίσουν οι εμπορικές συμβάσεις με άλλες χώρες.
Χρησιμοποιώντας, λοιπόν, αυτή την ιστορική περίοδο και τη συγκεκριμένη χώρα, ο Mitchell καταπιάνεται μe μια σειρά από θέματα, όπως το γλωσσικό (οι Ολλανδοί απαγορευόταν να μάθουν ιαπωνικά, ενώ οι Ιάπωνες μεταφραστές δρούσαν ώρες-ώρες και σαν πράκτορες), το θρησκευτικό (έκδηλη η ανελευθερία που πρόκυπτε απ’ τη θρησκευτική καταπίεση και η μάχη της με την επιστήμη), η θέση της γυναίκας στην Ιαπωνία, ο έρωτας.
David Mitchell's Cloud Atlas was perhaps my favorite book from last summer.
It is simply a wonderfully crafted piece of historical fiction, set in a small trading post of the Dutch East Indies Company on a constructed island in the Nagasaki harbor.
Jacob de Zoet is a Dutch clerk arriving on a ship from Europe with a superior from the company intent on assessing the corruption occurring in Dejima.
Meanwhile he is making no friends among the other Westerners on Dejima, as he is the one who must comb through the records of several years of trading to identify incidences of corruption, of which, of course, there are many.
Some of the most fascinating details were discussions between Jacob de Zoet and his interpreters as they worked to find the right word, often in Japanese.
The Japanese knew that the Europeans did not arrive simply to trade, but to potentially colonize and own all.
I love the Japanese cultural aesthetic.
Twomey’s dialogue is refreshing in the context of the contained northern European Dutch, and the controlled Japanese.
This historical novel provided me with insights into the ruthlessness of European trade, and the harsh lives of those who made these journeys.
Yes that's a good word for it.Thousand Autumns is not consistent - it is a cheesecake filled with too many rich, wonderful, exotic ingredients, and then improperly baked.
But Thousand Autumns is not good Literature, either.
Their ideas sneak in and possess us like ghosts, bubbling to the surface of our thoughts at odd times, when writing a love letter or closing our eyes for a quick brain break or tucking in our children or watering our garden or taking a dump.
Reading David Mitchell's The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet is like consuming that first, vital coffee of the day (I dedicate my very terrible simile to the Dutch, who created the modern stock market, based on the coffee trade in the century before the setting of this novel).
If you have read any professional reviews of this book, you have been pounded over the head by the reminder that Mitchell has written a straight-on historical fiction.
I considered early in the novel that I was continuing on only because it was David Mitchell- there is some clunkiness that made me drag my heels and even set it aside for a couple of days.
David Mitchell's forte is the creation of fully formed worlds with numerous living, breathing characters, all written in beautiful, engaging prose.
not for me) but I was happy to live in this world with these characters while I was reading it.
Unlike Cloud Atlas and more like Black Swan Green, this is a straightforward tale -- even with about a third of it being more 'speculative' than 'historical.'Besides exploring different types of imprisonment, the story also focuses on the large repercussions that can arise from inaction and small actions.
Some of the dialogue of the minor characters was a bit over the top -- another minor quibble as their speech was also readable and colorful.
I enjoyed this one; I definitely preferred it to Cloud Atlas, the only other Mitchell novel I've read.
There is romance, scandal, action, adventure, betrayal, conspiracy, corruption, heroism and loss to be had here; much like real life, really.* Nothing here is simply black and white; shades of grey abound and, like me, you may find it slightly difficult to find somebody to root for if you insist on your protagonists being infallible or paragons of virtue.I found the story captivating and subtle, with a poetic nature, if that makes any sense at all...
Basically, I enjoyed it.* The content of your actual life may vary.
