https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/361081.Pacific_Vortex_
When I was a teenager, I loved the Dirk Pitt adventure stories.
I've read two James Bond books this year so far....and those stories reminded me of Dirk Pitt.
Dirk Pitt is like James Bond...or what 007 would be if he was into underwater exploration and salvage missions.
Pacific Vortex is the first Dirk Pitt story, even though it was not the first book that was published.
Just like James Bond, Dirk Pitt is very much a man's man.
This story is very action oriented, a bit cheesy (just like Bond) and completely testosterone-y.
Having said that, if I disregard Pitt's womanizing, woman-dismissing ways, this is a pretty good book.
Eventually, it arrives to a slightly different destination that I expected, but it's fitting in the context of what Cussler's overall goals were in writing this book and creating the character of Dirk Pitt.I'm glad I decided to keep reading this, even after being turned off by Pitt's behavior towards women.
Good emphasis on the dangers of the Pacific Ocean and the use of maritime setting.Honorable Mentions: Nice twists in the storyline.
Overall a good adventure novel and an entertaining read.
I do not like James Bon and I don't like this guy. Besides a few interesting parts, very few, I am being generous with my stars. I do not like my men super men. What happened to just staying home with some cool jazz, nachos, and a great book guys? Do you have to save the world by risking suffocation? Can we just go snowboarding if you want adventure? I couldn't even follow the story! Not for me. ....Anton like has and nachos?
This book is a mix of author fantasy fulfillment and James Bond. While that can make an entertaining book it can also stretch the limits of believability. Decently fun.
I've seldom read a book as bad as this. Vraggies. (That's Afrikaans for Truly). Mr Cussler clearly believes in the mystical power of adjectives. His maxim: why lay it on with a trowel when there's a bloody shovel handy? I love mixing my exploration of classics and more serious works with a rich sprinkling of thrillers and detective stories, but they must be well-written, as (fortunately) most are. This one fails the test. Badly. Cussler makes Dan Brown seem like Dostoevsky. 'Nuff said.
This book sucks. I'm sorry, it does. Even Cussler says in the beginning notes that he never really intended for it to get published. But if he did that he'd get a shiny new car, so...yeah, I read it, and it wasn't that good. Do I regret it? No, I've moved on. I'm fine with it. It doesn't bother me. Now where's a pillow I can scream into? Seriously, though, this book is best skipped, unless you're a hardcore fan. I'd start with the Mediterranean Caper and move on from there.
Removed; this review was for The Mediterranean Caper.
Cussler himself considers it one of his less-stellar works, referring to it as “a few hours of entertainment and, perhaps, even a historic artifact of sorts” in his foreword.Having read several of the other Dirk Pitt novels, I can attest that “Pacific Vortex!” is definitely not Cussler’s best work, but as a pulpy action-adventure that pays homage to such unbelievable pulp novel heroes like Allan Quatermain and Doc Savage, as well as nods to contemporary action heroes like James Bond and Indiana Jones, it is sheer silly good fun.The plot involves a nuclear sub that mysteriously disappears in what is called the Pacific Vortex, a section of the Pacific Ocean just off the coast of Oahu in which several dozen ships have disappeared over a 30-year period, much like the Atlantic’s Bermuda Triangle.
When Dirk Pitt finds a message buoy from the submarine, he’s drawn into a mystery hidden below the surface of the sea.The book starts out with an explanation by Clive Cussler that it’s the first adventure of Dirk Pitt, but he hadn’t released it until later because he did not quite like the quality.
Dirk Pitt is a hero of the James Bond kind, always ready with a cool quip, and very much into seducing women.
The main irritation I had while reading this was an unnecessary repetition of how awesome Dirk Pitt is.
If I could, I'd give this book zero stars.
DO NOT waste your time.
The writing is so so so so bad.
It's bad enough that Clive Cussler appears to be both racist and wildly sexist based on use of ridiculous and offensive stereotypes, and horrible objectification of women.
It's quite unbelievable, even given the fact that he was writing in the 80s.
Add to that the fact that the writing is laughably awful: tortured metaphors, saturation of over-the-top adjectives, inconsistent characterizations, and the unrelenting use of $10 words when 2-penny words would do.
Seriously so awful.
by Clive Cussler was the sixth Dirk Pitt book published, but was the first story written by Cussler featuring Pitt that he finally relented in having published and as all the classic elements that signify a book in the series.A new advanced Navy submarine is taking its shakedown cruise when its commander decides to investigate an anomaly of both weather and sea floor, the sub disappears and resulting search finds nothing.
This first adventure of Clive Cussler’s character Dirk Pitt, it does not have to be read first or sixth but whenever you decide to if you’re reading any books in the series.
Highly reminiscent of a Sean Connery James Bond film. You got your man's man, you got your fancy car, and you got your sultry female co-stars. Throw it in a oceanic setting and bam you've got Dirk Pitt. The novel itself was a decent way to spend a few hours. Some of the style is pretty dated including your average dose of misogyny prevalent in these kind of adventures from that era but other than that it was just popcorn.
Might be good for teen boys or adults in that kind of mood.STORY BRIEF:Dirk was a major in the military and can fly planes.
Someone tries to kill Dirk.REVIEWER’S OPINION:This was the author’s first book, but he didn’t publish it right away.
I think you can read these novels out of order based on other reviewers’ comments, so if you want to try this author, I’d suggest reading one of the other books first.In this book Dirk meets Summer.
Sexual content: No sex scenes or language, but Dirk thinks about his desires for women and sex.
is the first book in Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt adventure series.
I've previously enjoyed the first three books in his Isaac Bell mystery / adventure series and I've wanted to try his other series for a while now.
Attempts are made on Pitt's life, underwater adventures take place in the Pacific Vortex, more killings and dangerous exploits.
I think I preferred the Isaac Bell stories, at least so far, but I do want to try more of the series to see if the stories improve and if we find out more about Dirk Pitt.
Fatto sta che non avevo ancora letto il primo volume, e devo dire che un po’ me ne vergognavo.Vortice è, appunto, il primo libro della serie, ma non il primo uscito.
Intrepido e coraggioso, non ha paura di nulla e non si tira indietro per nessun motivo, non importa quante avversità gli si pongano davanti.Di Summer, invece, avevo tanto sentito parlare nei romanzi più recenti, per cui non vedevo l’ora di scoprire chi fosse davvero.
Un personaggio di quelli che anche se non ci fosse stato chi se ne frega (tanto so che Pitt si sarebbe potuto salvare anche in un altro modo).
On my first experience reading the Dirk Pitt adventure series, I read Arctic Drift, where I made the comment that the Dirk Pitt protagonist is like Jack Reacher for the oceanographers and environmentalists.But digging into another adventure novel, Pacific Vortex, I think a better comparison would be that Dirk Pitt is like the oceanic Indiana Jones, where legends resurface and are investigated (though I don't recall Dirk ever yelling out, "This belongs in a museum!" - oh well, guess you can't have everything I suppose).My expectations for this book was pretty low, for when I read the introduction Clive admitted that he never intended to release this book for publishing.
There should be a literary subgenre composed entirely of books with excalamation points in the title.
In the last month I've read both Submarine!
It's hard to resist an author who's that excited about his book.
Would you rather read The Brothers Karamzov or HOLY CRAP!
See?I picked up this, the first Dirk Pitt adventure, after reading Shadow Divers.
I find shipwrecks really fascinating, so I was looking forward to a nice pulpy novel about deep sea adventure.
But hey, you weren't expecting War and Peace(!) (better title: War?!
If you're into that kind of thing, you'll have a fun afternoon with this book.
When a US nuclear submarine is 38, Dirk Pitt gets involved in the mystery.
The mystery itself is fascinating.
The adventures of recovering the submarine by the US Navy and Drk are amazing.
The storyline is not up to Cussler's usual twisty turny plot scenarios but well written except for the romance of Dirk and Summer.
Dirk always gets the girl in later books - only for a night - so it seems like Cussler wanted him to get the girl in this one but he certainly went about it the wrong way.
Dirk Pitts' first adventure, was my first Pitt novel in 30 years also. I just hadn't read the first one yet. Our hero who manages to get out of tight spots, and always a beautiful lady, not too far away....was the same in his first adventure. Entertaining quick read.
La prima avventura di Dirk Pitt, che non ho letto per prima però...
Judging from what follows (see below), this appears to be Mr Cussler's concept of the ideal woman.As for the woman who treats men in the same way that Pitt treats women - she is endangered towards the end of the book, and nobody seems to think that her life is worth saving.
The death of a woman - even Mr Cussler's ideal woman - apparently only matters for as long as it has adverse effects on a man.There are other examples of misogyny that I could cite, but frankly, life's too short to spend any more time and energy on it.2) DIRK GIT (sorry, PITT)There is a good deal of overlap between this point and the last one, but I thought this character deserved a point ALL to himself.He is, as I have mentioned, melodramatic and whiny for most of the story.
I have always loved Clive Cussler and Dirk Pitt.
I actually had substantial trouble finding this book, but fortunately found a copy at the 4th library I tried.
As other reviewers have noted, this is not Cussler's best work and it shows.
I did like the action scenes, Pitt and Giordino's relationship, and the mystery.
I did not like the romance.
Let me re-phrase; I hated every interaction between Pitt and Summer and can't even call it a romance.
"Romance" is not the point of this book (or the genre), but other books at least make a passing attempt to develop something.
I found this book in the 'grab it or it gets thrown out' area of my apartment building, so I decided to read it.
I don't even know how to give a star rating to a book that you know is trash but read because trash can be fun.
My review: 2/5 trashcans, there's better trash out there to fit your trash needs, but if you discover it next to a dumpster, it will do.
Dopo aver letto diversi libri di Cussler, ho voluto leggere il primo della serie di Dirk Pitt per vedere come si è evoluto il personaggio, si denota come l'autore sia ancora alle prime armi, una trama più elementare rispetto a quelle successive, ma comunque sempre avvincente. Una lettura sempre scorrevole, colpi di scena sempre presenti e ottima presentazione del protagonista Dirk Pitt e del divertente amico Al Giordino, i cui personaggi verranno meglio approfonditi nei libri successivi.
My dad and brother-in-law have been recommending Clive Cussler to me for years, and when I discovered that one of my favourite films ‘Sahara’ was based on a Dirk Pitt novel, Cussler moved right up my tbr list.
I had to start with the first Dirk Pitt because I’m a read in order kinda gal, and I loved it!I really liked that Dirk and Al read very similarly to their characters in the film, that was a relief as I love those guys!
It was fast-paced, exciting, and surprisingly educational!
I’m starting the next one tonight, as soon as I get it from my bro-in-law 😁😁😁
The first book of Dirk Pitt...I've read some of the book but not in chronological order. I love the character of Dirk. I love it since the first time I stumbled to the book about 9 year ago. So it is in my list to read the book in chronological order.
The beginning of theDirk Pitt formula. It was fun to see the beginnings of all the tropes of fancy toys, macho sexuality, super hero antics, strange history and super villains coming from the past. Pure escapism-male romance! The second outing, The Mediterranean Caper was billed as the first and this one was only a drugstore paperback as the second one cemented the series.
Well, I'm slightly disappointed.....Dirk did not get the girl! Other than that, this book was a great read. Had all of the normal action and adventure I expected from Cussler. I'm reading the Dirk Pitt novels in order of his life; having already read a few recent ones. Great start to his life and adventures, despite being published almost ten years into the series.
A ship named Martha Ann they search and find the submarine.
While checking March gets killed by mysterious people and Pitt finds one crew member alive and escapes to Martha Ann. Pitt becomes aware that the communication is blocked.
Unexpected help from a girl (Summer) Pitt escapes and narrates this to the Admiral.
Pitt trying to escape from Martha Ann and car chase before meeting the Admiral.As usual one liner that I liked.Good Morning Mr.Pitt, Delphi said drily.
I've been a huge fan of the Dirk Pitt novels since my sister bought me a paperback of Vixon 03 for my birthday many years ago, it was perhaps the most productive present she ever bought me as I went on to read the Clive Cussler novels for years to come.I was browsing my ebook apps on the ipad and realised the cloud being what it is my digital Pitt novels were ready to go so I started reading the first one namely Pacific Vortex.
An enjoyable introduction to the man of all seasons Dirk Pitt with action and adventure aplenty, initial introductions to long running characters and theme were on offer but as you would expect the novel lacked the complexity of those that would come later yet also lacked the over the topness of the latter novels as well.
