https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835438.Wild_Strawberries
This book was a much better experience than Thirkell's first Barsetshire novel  . The characters were better realised,(Mr Holt was wonderful!) it was genuinely very funny in parts and there was one scene that moved me to tears.But there was one page of Thirkell's usual cheerful racism. I had a lot of trouble getting into the book after that. I just couldn't believe what I had read. The character of Agnes (meant to be endearing) drove me up the wall. Thirkell painted Agnes with very deft strokes,
This book was a much better experience than Thirkell's first Barsetshire novel 
. The characters were better realised,(Mr Holt was wonderful!) it was genuinely very funny in parts and there was one scene that moved me to tears.But there was one page of Thirkell's usual cheerful racism.
The character of Agnes (meant to be endearing) drove me up the wall.
It felt like Thirkell was a little bored with the romance herself and just wanted to wrap the book up.I'm not a Thirkell convert yet, but I am willing to read more of her books.
She is sweetly oblivious, and wonderfully good natured, so the servants and the family have learned to listen, nod, and carry on managing things themselves.Sir Henry and Lady Emily lost their eldest son in the Great War, and they still feel his loss, but they are happy with their home, their lives and their family around them.The story wanders through the summer with just enough narrative threads running through the picture to make it feel like a story.Agnes, the Leslies’ only daughter had come home for the summer, with her children, because her husband was abroad.
Of the three Angela Thirkell novels I have read this is my favourite - it is wonderful!
And, of course, the vicar will wait - this was an age of deference and Lady Emily is an Earl's daughter.Agnes Graham is beautiful but apathetic - she has 'a very gentle voice, which she never took the trouble to raise', and now lives 'in a state of perfectly contented subjection to her adoring husband and children' (p30).
Instead he decides to do 'the film version and the dramatic version, then with that success behind (him) it will be easy as anything to write the novel' (p199).This book is a window on another world and I recommend it.
What was left of the charm was finished by the fact that the romantic plot was a fiasco where the girl- who sucked in all romantic scenarios, sorry- could have reasonably ended up with either guy into the last ten pages and therefore I had little to no investment in it.
while Thirkell is effective at rendering her a very recognizable type, I wanted to scream every time she walked into a room by the end.And that’s a shame, because the first pages began with such a kind, empathetic rendering of Emily and why everyone lets her be the way she is, and it was so promising, but then that whole line of inquiry-which was going to be about post WWI loss and grief- got tossed aside for a whole bunch of flurry about nothing.
Angela Thirkell novels come in two main flavors--light but with an undercurrent of sadness to give them a bit of emotional heft; and so light they float away on the breeze.
Wild Strawberries falls into the latter category, so it is not a favorite of mine.That said, it has most of the Thirkell virtues: the dialogue is funny, the characters are charmingly wacky and thoroughly English without falling into stereotypes, the interpersonal dynamics lead the action into deliciously comedic scenes.
(hide spoiler)] So this was not the perfect escape I was looking for.Anyone who has not read Angela Thirkell should do so, but maybe don't start with this one.
In the days between the wars life goes on as usual for Lady Emily and Mr. Leslie and their family.
Their grandson Martin is fast becoming a man and will one day take over the estate, second son John is a quiet widower still mourning his late wife, much to his parents' sorrow; youngest son David is jolly and irrepressible as he figures out his path in life; their daughter Agnes is visiting with her brood for the summer as is Agnes' husband's niece Mary.
I found Martin a little irritating at times.
I know many of my Good Reads friends like the series.
The literary equivalent of eating a cream puff, but it made me laugh.
An amusing, mildly diverting portrait of a family and a village in the year just before World War II. The impossibly scatterbrained Lady Emily and her large extended family make for an entertaining weekend visit to the Great House, though I would find them all vastly annoying for much longer than that! A few adumbrations of the horrors to come give the story just enough of a hidden edge--one wonders what became of them all when the bombs began to fall on their idyllic world.G: A clean read.
Cette parenthèse anglaise délicieusement rétro doit se lire assez rapidement pour ne pas lasser : elle vous parle d'une époque révolue pendant laquelle le monde se voulait aussi léger que possible. Downton Abbey par certains côtés, avec l'humour qu'il faut et l'éternelle question des relations amoureuses ... Le parfum des fraises sauvages est aussi rafraîchissant que promis !
So delicious, like a glass of sweet lemonade on a hot afternoon; or a china cup of darjeeling on a cold one. Completely without guile, with tongue firmly in cheek, and exquisitely written. And very, very funny.
The matriarch of the family, Lady Emily Leslie, is a winsomely irritating meddler in the affairs of others.
Their other two surviving children (alongside Lady Graham) are John (a supportive and considerate widower), and David (a gifted but conceited and complete cad, also, alas, something of a wastrel), who compete for Mary’s attention.
There, that should at least generate some hate email from those ‘Downtonites’ who haven’t yet read this book!For an author of whom I must admit I’d never heard of until I stumbled across a second-hand recent reprint, “Wild Strawberries” really has been rather fun to read.
“ “Do you mind?” he [David] asked.
I love the British comedies and this book is a great material for a very funny and engaging movie.I have had so much fun with this piece.
The most important is that you will have a great time (or as Martin would have said: awfully splendid time ;-) )The quotes below aren't maybe the best but I forgot to mark, I was so much focused on reading.At twelve o'clock David was heard shouting for Martin.
At five minutes past twelve Martin was heard shouting for David.
Although, maybe I would have to make breaks occasionally to not feel annoyed by Lady Emily or Agnes ;-).]PS A great thanks for Mary!
An indulgent comfort re-read for me.
She, like her mother Lady Emily, is totally enthralled with her children and their well-being, and extends this loving (yet hilariously obtuse and therefore maddening!) attention to all in their charge - house guests, friends, servants - you name it, no detail is too small, no hurt feeling too insignificant to escape discussion and dissection by these two well-meaning matrons.
The upper-class characters at its centre are ridiculously wonderful, all so self-absorbed that they pay no attention to other people and are constantly getting hold of the wrong end of the stick.
Lady Emily's attempts to organise everyone and everything are sensibly ignored by the lower-class characters who actually get things done.
I think my favourite scene was the lunch in the restaurant with David, Joan and Mary -- sparks fly from Thirkell's pen in a positively Austenish way.
You wouldn't want to read a lot of Thirkell back to back, but occasional dips are very refreshing.
It is laugh-out-loud funny: there is a wonderfully irreverent joy in the foibles, idiocies, and innocent pleasures of minor gentry.
Two things marred my pleasure: 1, this was written between world wars and contains some bs antisemitism and someone is compared to an n-word, and 2, the love story is utterly unconvincing.
(view spoiler)[Mary has a crush on David, and this is written about in an almost cruelly accurate manner, from the ways she treasures his little gestures to the fantasies she has about showing him how wonderful and martyred she is.
Le roman croque une saison à la campagne, chez des jeunes gens aisés et oisifs, sans distiller un soupçon de manichéisme, juste dans le souci de partager une tranche de vie frivole et guillerette.Le rendu fait mouche. Et on goûte avec délice aux nombreux ingrédients qui constituent cette comédie rafraîchissante et légère. C'est dégoulinant de charme vintage, et c'est tout bon !http://blogclarabel.canalblog.com/arc...
She falls in love with David, the flirtatious son, but also strikes a sympathetic chord in the heart of John, who happens to be in the right time and place to provide a shoulder to lean on when she is going through a little crisis.Most of the characters have their own story arc going on as the narrative drives forward to the climax, the 17th birthday party of the Leslie grandson.I laughed quite a lot while reading.
But the author occasionally dwells on the way that she thinks about her son who was killed in war.
Free download available at Faded Page.
Leggere la Thirkell è come venire proiettati in una delle tante sonnacchiose, pittoresche ma movimen
I'm going to take the liberty of using one of Lady Emily's favourite words to describe this frothy comic novel: delicious.
Two of the sons of the house catch her eye: John, because of his solid kindness, and David, because of his flighty charm.
You don't read this sort of book for plot, but rather for its delightful descriptions of a 1930s 'big house' in the English countryside and its amusing, eccentric inhabitants.
The dotty, deceptively feather-brained Lady Emily is a triumph.
Gently humorous, with an occasionally more satirical poke at the manners of the English upper classes.
I must admit, I seem to have a definite weakness for satires.Wild Strawberries is well written and deliciously funny :)The plot was a wonderful blend of 'everyday life' and absurdities.
I really liked the characters - they were treading a fine line between realistic and caricature, but in a very genuine, human sort of way.I definitely recommend!I will mention, that it's a book of it's time.
Personally, I didn't find it offensive because the whole book is written in such a tongue-in-cheek, ironical style but I thought I'd let people know.If you haven't read anything by Thirkell, I suggest you go read High Rising (definitely still my favourite)!
I loved being introduced to Angela Thirkell in High Rising and yet I let this second installment sit in the TBR pile for a long time.
I love the tone and and the summer breezy feeling of these novels.
The story centers around a romance but it is written with enough sharped eyed social commentary and wit to let the reader know that this is more than a mere confection.
This is the perfect book to enjoy in hammock with a tall glass of (spiked) lemonade and a long, warm afternoon stretching out in front of you.
Young Mary Preston has been invited to spend the summer at the sprawling country estate of Rushwater, belonging to Lady Emily Leslie. ‘Wild Strawberries’ is the story of that very idyllic time, Mary Preston’s romantic entanglements and the summertime activities of the landed country gentry.Full review at https://bagfullofbooks.com/2017/03/08...
Charmant, léger, une petite douceur légèrement acidulée - comme une fraise des bois (sauvage) donc. Un mélange entre B. Pym, M. Wesley et une pointe de P. G. Wodehouse.
Неплохо, но сыровато. Из этого получился бы отличный ромком с красивыми молодыми актерами, но от книжки создается впечатление, что автору удался замысел и мизансцена, но что дальше делать с этими людьми и особенно как всё закончить -- непонятно. Лично я в предложенную развязку не верю.Но чтение само по себе приятное и персонажи яркие.
La stessa padrona di casa, Lady Emily, è una signora di una certa età confusionaria e svampitissima, però si vede che l'autrice le vuole bene e ce ne mostra anche tutte le caratteristiche positive.In sostanza siamo calati in una sorta di scenario alla Downton Abbey ma senza il dramma, o meglio, il dramma c'è stato (il primogenito dei Leslie è morto in guerra e il secondogenito è un giovane vedovo), è un ricordo indelebile nel cuore dei membri della famiglia, ma il loro atteggiamento verso la vita è molto più leggero.Ho adorato le scene con gli ospiti/affittuari francesi e i commenti su di loro («“Le francesi sono tutte vedove,” disse il signor Leslie.
Most mothers feel a hideous sinking at the heart when these fatal words are pronounced, but Agnes only showed a kindly and inactive interest.In anyone else Mary might have suspected unusual powers of bluff, hiding trembling knees, a feeling of helpless nausea, flashes of light behind the eyes, storm in the brain, and a general desire to say 'Take double your present wages, but don't tell me what it is you want to speak to me about.' I'm looking forward to reading more Thirkell.
Etant une grande fan de littérature, et en particulier de l'humour anglais à la Wodehouse, je ne pouvais qu'être tentée par ce livre.
Je n'avais jamais rien lu d'Angela Thirkell donc ce fut une vraie découverte.Si l'histoire est assez prévisible dans l'ensemble, elle réserve quelques jolis coups de théâtre sur les intrigues secondaires.
la galerie des personnages est irrésistible pour ceux qui aiment ce genre de personnages complètement délirants...
mais finalement si attachants.Ce n'est pas un grand livre mais c'est un bon livre qui offre un joli moment de lecture.
Mention spéciale pour les dialogues savoureux à l'humour souvent très décalé.
This is Angela Thirkell's third novel and here she really hits her stride. I found myself inwardly smiling on almost every page at the understated comic brilliance of the characters -- the interfering Lady Emily, the charming David Leslie, the brainless Lady Agnes (for some reason, she reminded me of Georgette on the Mary Tyler Moore show), and even the butler Gudgeon, whose great joy in life is to ring the dinner gong -- all are perfectly well drawn. I look forward to reading more of this prolific author's works.
