https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6346975-moonwalking-with-einstein
Research shows we remember mental images of things much better than we do raw data by rote (things like numbers, playing cards, poems, or list items).
Picture it in sequence one more time: the bored doe just inside the door, the spotted train at the base of the stairs, the tepees on the table at the top of the stairs, the ship master in the margarita in the living room, and finally, sitting on the kitchen table, the Selassie worshipper with the author of Cutting for Stone and the cooing dove.
Then, when you want to memorize the randomized order of a deck, you put these images in a fresh memory palace.
I'd give it one and a half stars but it is just not worth two.Moonwalking with Einstein: The Art & Science of Remembering Everything reads like a long magazine article - which is kind of where I found out about the book - The NY Times - last week.
My favorite sections covered the history of memorization -- it goes back to the ancient Greeks, when Socrates famously complained that writing destroys memory -- and some inspiring passages on how to make your life seem more full:"Monotony collapses time; novelty unfolds it.
Creating new memories stretches out psychological time, and lengthens our perception of our lives."The last chapter and the epilogue cover the memory championships in which Foer competed, but the outcome of those events really doesn't matter.
I think I messed it up, but there's some simple proof that memory techniques *can* be useful.Unfortunately, this book isn't about teaching memory techniques.
which is NOT why I read this book.Sure, the overall story was interesting, there were some useful tips, and some real truths came out of the work.
I will admit I went into the book expecting much in the way of being taught some useful skills so my rating reflects this entry bias.Read it for a decently entertaining tale of participative journalism.
Read something else for working on your memory.
But I’m fairly certain I would not go to such lengths to win a memory competition.Joshua Foer thought it was a dandy idea…..Joshua found himself in the world of competitive memory when he decided he wanted to do a journalistic book about the subject and the people in it.
These people memorize long lists of numbers, decks on top of decks of cards, poetry….ect, all to repeat what they remember to some judges in hopes of winning.
Who needs a skill like this and when would one have the need to memorize 20 decks of cards?As the author points out in the book, we no longer need to remember much of anything these days, all our electronic gadgets serve as our external memory.
But it all comes in handy eventually – I was talking to my mother the other day about growing older and was able to quote one of my remembered poems to her in full:The cruel girls we loved Are over forty,Their subtle daughters Have stolen their beauty;And with a blue stare Of cool surprise,They mock their anxious mothersWith their mothers’ eyes.(Now that I’ve checked my memory against the poem it seems I almost remembered it – but couldn’t quite remember what kind of surprise they had, I had it as cruel for a second time – and the line breaks I remembered as fewer – mine was a poem of four lines in total, but I still knew there was a big break between beauty and And.)A couple of weeks ago my eldest daughter and I were walking around St Kilda talking about this and that.
Sounds just like Hank Moody's motto: 'Constant vigilance!'Q:The brain best remembers things that are repeated, rhythmic, rhyming, structured, and above all easily visualized.
Creating new memories stretches out psychological time, and lengthens our perception of our lives.
(c)Q:Amateur musicians, for example, are more likely to spend their practice time playing music, whereas pros are more likely to work through tedious exercises or focus on specific, difficult parts of pieces.
(c)Q:The brain is like a muscle,” he said, and memory training is a form of mental workout.
Over time, like any form of exercise, it’ll make the brain fitter, quicker, and more nimble.
Well, I'm not going to lie, this book has already got two strikes: I basically hate the genre of "I did this wacky thing for a year, and then I wrote a book about it!", plus he is the brother of a famouser writer whom I more or less revile.
It's actually also a very good use of the "I did this wacky thing for a year, and then I wrote a book about it!" genre, because it's fascinating to watch Joshua completely embrace a new hobby and get totally embroiled in it, but I'm glad he then extricated and went back to (presumably) his normal life.
Foer does make a serious case that most people who dedicate themselves to learning memory techniques could learn how to do some pretty awesome party tricks.
However, once I learned what that dedication required, I lost interest in doing any sort of serious memory training.However, I think this book makes a strong point that being more aware of what we're taking in, and finding ways to record it on our external memory devices like computers and notebooks, can improve our own creative output.
Nice introductory chapters and a technique I learned while listening on the train (for half an hour) that allowed me to come home and impress my kids by having them write down a 50-digit number and then me recalling it digit-by-digit in order for them.I never thought about it before, but the book points out that before pen and paper, anything that needed to be preserved had to be memorized.
That is why so many of the techniques mentioned in the book are from antiquity and continue to stand the test of time.The mind likes sequential memories.
Memories that are stored as part of a story that are made as multi-sensorial in the mind as possible are easily recalled.
I've chosen a memory palace and have decided to memorize a small book I use for reference all the time called, "Know your Bible: All 66 books explained and applied".
This is a popular technique Foer explains in the book, especially when memorizing lists of concrete things, like a grocery list.
In demonstrating to the reader the technique of using the memory palace to memorize a grocery list, he used an image of Claudia Shiffer covered in cottage cheese.
I'm an expert mnemonicist now!
This book is a fast read..(funny, somewhat interesting, somewhat useful)June: 2015...
4 years later: i've come back to change my rating from 2 stars to 4 stars This book actually is brilliant I remember it quite well.
It didn't deserve 2 stars.
The ending is actually very touching.
My reason for giving it 2 stars four years ago is I didn't think I personally was very good at the techniques in the book.
This book came to my attention today from another friend on the site.
I hope she reads it.
O autor começa a investigar como funcionava o sistema de memorização usado até a popularização dos livros e acaba se inscrevendo no campeonato americano de memória (e concorrendo).
O principal do livro, como funciona o palácio mental e os sistemas de memorização, é algo que poderia ser resumido em bem poucas páginas.
Mas o embrulho dessa mensagem é muito bom, com histórias e feitos de memorização, o caminho do autor se preparando para o campeonato e uma série de comentários sobre a cultura da memorização que gostei bastante.
I have lists of the mental models, principles and cognitive biases that I use on most problems I face: inversion, second-order effects, black swans, survivorship bias, antifragility, conditioning, fundamental attribution error, and so on.
Adding new models is only getting easier, too.Remembering numbers and card games isn't particularly useful for me, but these are just easy-to-evaluate tests for a competition format to test how productive someone is with memory palaces.
The brain is poor at lists and numbers unless packaged into visual, spatial and associations—for which the memory palace is a fantastic technique.
کتاب حجم زیادی داره و با مطالب مفید کم ، نمیشه گفت جزو کتاب های زرد به حساب میاد چون اصلا کتاب نیست 
What's needed is to use the human brain's natural abilities at remembering images as a means to remember the esoteric things of today such as telephone numbers, names of strangers, and in the case of memory championships, the order of a shuffled deck of playing cards.
Mnemonics is the technic of utilizing the human brain's natural strength as a means for helping those areas where the brain is naturally weak.As the book's narrative follows the author's year of mnemonic training it addresses miscellaneous facts about the history of memorization technics, examples of unusual memory abilities, and miscellaneous neurological facts.
Dopo aver letto il libro… continuerete a dimenticare le stesse cose.Insomma, se è vero che ci sono tecniche per calcolare le date del calendario, per stabilire quando è caduta la Pasqua negli ultimi mille anni, per ricordare un’infinità di parole, è altrettanto vero che se diventaste padroni di queste formule non sarebbero d’aiuto (o lo sarebbero in modesta misura) nel ricordare ciò che si tende a scordare nel quotidiano.Il giornalista Joshua Foer presenta un’interessante analisi sulla funzione mnemonica, sull’arte del ricordare, sui campioni della memoria, sui savant.
The book talks a lot about creating 'memory palaces' in your mind in order to remember things.
One thing that really annoyed me about this book was the sheer amount of time and effort these people put into memorizing useless stuff when I struggle so much with foreign language acquisition.
This book also teaches that one should 'practice better, not harder.' Also, their methods of memorization involve imagining some pretty gross stuff that I don't think I want in my mind.
It also made me laugh to imagine (not suggested in the book) that one could self-injure their left brain in order to become a savant.
It's more of a participatory journalism book like the Omnivores Dilemma, The Wave, Born to Run and Word Freak.
These books share a common formula.
1 Part History,1 Part Science, 1 Part Interview with Characters, 1 Part How to, 1 Part Essay and 1 Part Personal Quest: training and competing in the America Memory Championship which he entered on a lark.
Things that stand out:Mark Twain's memory training and failed attempt to sell a memory gameRicci's Palace of MemoryTony Buzzan and his coach Ed as characters Samuel Gompers High School memory training successFoer being a subject for Erickson (sp?) of Deliberate Practice FameDiscussion of memorizing poems and text

Тийм гайхалтай цээжлэн тогтоох чадвартай боллоо гэхэд орчин цагийн гар утас гэх мэт технологийн дэвшлүүд биднийг байнга мэдээллийн илүүдлийн ядралд оруулж байдаг тул, хүссэн бүх мэдээллээ энэ аргаараа хадгалах боломжгүй юм.
Тодоор дүрслэн төсөөлж чадах бүхий л зүйлс Mind Palace байж болно.
Тэгээд л энэ mind palace-ууддаа цээжлэхийг хүссэн мэдээллээ аль болох хэтрүүлэгтэйгээр зоогоод л явах зарчимтай.
За тэгээд ер нь тархиа байнга дасгалжуулж байх нь өөрийгөө танин мэдэх, оюуны чадамжаа мэдэхэд хэрэгтэй тул боломж гарвал дасгалжуулж байх нь зүгээр бололтой.
Тиймээс боломж гарвал л дүрслэн төсөөлөх чадвараа дасгалжуулж байвал оюуны чадвараа улам л тэлж байна гэсэн үг.
Уншсан мэдээллээ аль болох удаан хадгалахад дөхөмтэй болж байна.
This is not to suggest that the author does not elucidate many of the techniques used by MAs or Mental Athletes as the memory champions of the world are called.
Much to its credit, this is not only a book about the personal stories of some of the most important contemporary memory champs alive today, it is also about how they accomplish their stunning and almost magical feats of mental acumen.
While it gives hope for us mortals on the one hand, the book goes on to describe the incredibly intense training that goes into accomplishing such a feat.Writing for Discovery, this is not a schlock, tabloid-like look at the subject of memory.
1.5 stars - I didn't like it.This book had languished on my TBR shelf for over a year before I finally picked it up.
He has defecated (two of clubs) on a salmon burger (king of clubs) and captured his flatulence (queen of clubs) in a balloon (six of spades).
Moonwalking with Einsein is about memory, and is the most interesting non-fiction book I've read in the past year.
Anyone can do it!The key to becoming really great at memorizing, and the reason why everyone doesn't learn these (fairly simple, when you get down to it) techniques and impress their friends at parties, is that memory techniques are like playing chess or the piano — anyone can do it, and anyone who puts in serious effort can become pretty good at it (at least good enough to impress people who aren't very good at it), but to become great at it requires lots and lots of practice and years of study, like any other skill.Still, it was quite a revelation to me that this is a skill that anyone can learn.
In basic terms, it is a method of memory enhancement which uses visualization to organize and recall information; data is stored in a sequence of memorable images that can be translated back into their original form (i.e., remembering a groceries list would translate into placing said list items into various "locations" around a house; the more memorable the image, the better.
The list goes on, as Foer managed to cover a lot of research in his year, unemployed, studying for The National Memory Championships.
The book is a recounting of Foer's year training with the experts to compete in memory championships.
Along the way, Foer recounts the history of memorization-its one-time primacy, its fall into disrespect and its current championship by some educators.
Before writing, memory was the only way to transmit information, culture, and history.
Foer raises an important question: Although memory does not constitute understanding, facts are an essential foundation to learning.
In fact, not just a lot of information, but a lot of different areas-history, education, psychology-along with the current tale of Foer's training and the people he meets along the way.
What made Moonwalking with Einstein so enjoyable was the mixture between learning about things you never knew you would find interesting, having answers to questions you always wanted to know, a practical application that is surprisingly effective, and finally putting it all in a rich context.In terms of the practical application I could do no better than steer you to this review my link text with the warning that you will now have lodged in your mind the particular set of chores Steve was grappling with on that day for much longer than you would ever want.
Joshua Foer, a journalist, decided to explore this subculture by attending competitions and talking with a number of the competitors.
But Peek is quite unlike the other characters in the book, for his mental abilities come naturally, apparently without effort or practice.Foer decided that the best way to understand the technical approaches used by mentalists, is to try learning the set of mental tricks himself.
Foer learns and practices the mental tricks, such as the "memory palace." In the palace, the mentalist imagines a set of rooms that one follows in a preset order.
Wow. Seldom do I finish a book and feel it has changed who I am, or who I could be.
There are many areas here related to education which inspired me (most interestingly and somewhat removed slightly from memory of the concept of the ‘ok plateau’), and of which I must further research, but...
the memory palace was extraordinary!
And could easily recount them the following day, even backwards!Those who are familiar with my reviews will know how poor my memory is, I am astounded.
I’m really not sure (without spoilers, there’s an excellent anecdote at the end of the book related to its usefulness).
يجيب الكتاب عن سؤال: هل يجب علينا الاعتماد على ذاكرتنا الداخلية، أو نقتصر في هذا العصر على الذاكرة الخارجية فقط (المعلومات الوافرة والسريعة في محركات البحث، الهواتف والتقنيات الحديثة)؟الكتاب ممتع حيث يقوم الكاتب وهو صحفي بالبحث في هذا الموضوع ويقوم بمقابلة شخصيات بالغة الذكاء وشخصيات فقدوا الذاكرة، واخرى استثنائية، ويخوض الكاتب تجربة المشاركة في مسابقات الذكاء والتدرب على اساليب وتقنيات الحفظ وتطوير ذاكرة العقل. كتاب فريد من نوعه، وترجمة موفقة
