https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24687.Don_t_Let_s_Go_to_the_Dogs_Tonight
This is one of my top-ten favorite books of all time.
I've read it twice and feel another reread coming on.The brutal honesty in this story is startling, and Fuller does not set out to insert political or social critique into her story.
This is probably unsettling for readers who come face-to-face with her family's colonialist attitudes and expect to hear her criticize and critique them.
However, I prefer that Fuller let the story stand on its own.
The book doesn't set out to dissect "Issues," but rather to tell one particular- and it is a particularly heartbreaking, frightening, disturbing, visceral, and funny one- story.
I almost gave this book four stars because it was very well-written and evocative.
But I just never felt much of a connection to the book or to any of the characters.
But it definitely wasn't a can't-put-it-down kind of book.
I mean, what really motivated them to keep slogging it out in Africa, really?
How did she feel about their racism?
What motivated them to raise children in a country in which a civil war was raging?)On the other hand, she writes terrific dialogue and her sensory descriptions of Africa made me feel like I was there.
"Africans whose hatred reflects the sun like a mirror into our faces, impossible to ignore."There is beautifully written passage describing driving through a European settlement and then Tribal Trust Lands: "there are flowering shrubs and trees...
Children and chickens and dos scratch in the red, raw soil and stare at us as we drive thought their open, eroding lives." Those are not the words of a racist.DEPRESSION, TRAUMA, ALCOHOLISMThere are some very dark episodes (including deaths), and at one point, even the dogs are depressed, and yet the book itself is not depressing.
Deciding to read more memoirs again, I picked up Alexandra Fuller’s Don’t Let’s Go to the Dogs Tonight (first read about 6 or 7 years ago).
Fuller’s memoir quickly draws the reader into her girlhood growing up in Africa with candor and humor.
Fuller weaves her story back and forth between an intimate portrait of her family and the violence surrounding them.
It doesn’t sound like there should humor here, but Fuller pulls it off without sounding callous and even with a certain amount of warmth.
I'm glad I didn't grow up in a place where terrorists were so common that they were referred to as "terrs." And scorpions were so common that they called them "scorps." And I'm quite grateful that my first day of school photo does not feature me clutching an Uzi for protection.Alexandra "Bobo" Fuller writes about her experiences in a strangely unsentimental, matter-of-fact way.
Maybe it's just her writing style, but I wondered if a young life filled with danger and uncertainty and pain taught her not to feel anything too deeply.
Nothing like a little flambe to brighten your holiday.
The residual colonial attitudes were also quite a revelation to me.The writing is excellent, if a little disjointed at times.
This memoir details her life from that time right up to the late 90's, a time period when Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) was at war fighting for independence from Britain.
I found it fascinating to not only read of the hellish conditions, but also how this young girl named Bobo, deals with so many challenges.
She brought me right into her world, one more concerned with family, and her daily life.
As a kid, you have no idea your parents are racist, so it can be uncomfortable to read of this families ideas of blacks, but also deeply informing.
I know she is manic, but who wouldn't be - living through what she does?!
OK, I couldn't live there but this author made me love Africa and that is strange because it has so many problems, there is so much wrong, so much that has to be fixed.
You learn to love Africa, despite all its troubles.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/The only reason I read this is because Alexandra Fuller provided the cover blurb for Where the Crawdads Sing . . . .  I’m not even sorry either because I probably would never have heard of this memoir otherwise. Alexandra Fuller’s family arrived in Rhodesia via way of Darby, England in 1966 when she was only a toddler. This is the story of her childhood as a farming family in what originally was a country ran by whites under British ru
Alexandra Fuller’s family arrived in Rhodesia via way of Darby, England in 1966 when she was only a toddler.
This is the story of her childhood as a farming family in what originally was a country ran by whites under British rule through the revolution where Rhodesia became Zimbabwe under Robert Mugabe’s control.
It is a tale of strength in both body and spirit about a family constantly fighting the odds, yet somehow never quite giving up.
Not even white men.
It is only then we see that both men are armed with thick shiny black Bibles.
Mum shuffles her gun behind her back.
Mum sighs.
Eek!In 1974, when many white residents were fleeing Africa, Fuller's parents bought a farm smack dab in the middle of twin civil wars in Rhodesia and Mozambique.
Mama was packin' an Uzi. Fuller's Mum is really the star of this show.
Alcoholic and racist, she bemoaned, "Look, we fought to keep ONE country in Africa white-run..." Her attitudes seem shocking today, but were sadly shared by many at the time.
She had an abiding respect for Africa, but not its people.This is a gritty, "warts and all" memoir.
Fuller's early years were anything but dull.
A well-written memoir that was fascinating if only because the author is exactly my age, born the year I was born, and lived a life so very different from my own.
As she described each stage of her upbringing, I found myself thinking about what I had been doing at that same age and marveling that the two of us could possibly have occupied the same world at the same time.
She unflinchingly describes her life and does not apologize for it nor cheapen it by gaudily harping on lessons she has learned.
I read this book (well, most of it, I admit, I didn't finish and didn't want to) while in training as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Namibia, Africa.
I might have liked it better before going to Africa, before seeing first-hand what various colonizing governments did to people, but maybe not.
I might have liked it better if she told her memories in order, rather than jumping around so I had some clue as to where and when she was.
When I left Africa, I left the book behind for someone else to read (reading material is in short supply for PCV's) and didn't mind a lick that I hadn't finished it.
I read an article by a book reviewer a little while ago in which they talked about how sick they were of "growing up in fill-in-the-blank" books and wished people would be more original.
I think that's incredibly misguided.
This is one of those books that tops out on many different levels at the same time- the language is beautiful, the dialogue is great, the people come alive for you, it's hilarious, it's sad, it's beautiful, and it deals with the subject of entrenched racism incredibly well, by simply telling the truth about how people were and what people did, without ever stretching to make a political point.
She had absorbed the notion that white people were there to benevolently shepherd the natives, but came to question it when she met Africans for herself.
While giving a sense of the continent’s political shifts, she mostly focuses on her own family: the four-person circus that was Bobo (that’s her), Van (her older sister Vanessa), Dad, and Mum (an occasionally hospitalized manic-depressive alcoholic (view spoiler)[who lost three children (hide spoiler)]) – not to mention an ever-changing menagerie of horses, dogs and other pets.
I am neither African nor English nor am I of the sea.”“We eat impala at each meal.
As an avid reader, it often surprises people when they learn that I rarely re-read books.
I know that a lot of people find great enjoyment from repeat readings, discovering new layers to the story and gaining a better understanding of the book.
There are so many wonderful books out there and I'll never be able to read them all.
Usually when I choose to re-read a book I feel like I'm wasting time that could be devoted to reading a new book.
I have read Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight not just once, not just twice, but three times!
4.75What makes  Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight  an outstanding memoir was Fuller's interesting choice to tell the story of growing up as an "expat-like-us" in Africa from a child's POV and the fact she did not tie herself to recounting her childhood in a linear manner.
Her choice to use a child's POV is incredibly clever since it allows her to touch on issues like racism, post-colonialism, and dysfunctional family dynamics without needing to present apologies, excuses, or really any editorializing and that let's her experience shine through.What makes  Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight  an outstanding book is Fuller's feel for language.
And while I insist on my Africanness (if such a singular thing can exist on such a vast and varied continent), I am forced to acknowledge that almost half my life in Africa was realized in a bubble of Anglocentricity, as if black Africans had not culture worth noticing and as if they did not exist except as servants and (more dangerously) as terrorists.”I picked up this book several years ago with the hope that it might help me make sense of my own relationship to Africa – the strong but confusing bonds that arise from childhood immersion and are easily discounted among adults but can never quite be brushed aside.
Two things made me curious about this book: it's from the perspective of the child of colonialists, and the events are fairly recent as it takes place in the 1970's-1990's.The voice is that of a relatively innocent young girl (as innocent as you can be in midst of war and dire economic circumstances) and she's allowed to tell her childhood as she saw it, good and bad.I've had fairly mixed feelings about this book: I would like to know how she as an adult views her racist parents, who despite poverty and alcoholism still viewed themselves as superior purely based on their race, eg that it was natural and proper for them to have servants.When did she come to realize that the rest of the world doesn't necessarily share that view?
An insanely good read that I had on my bookshelf since I bought it 14 years ago. A memoir about an African childhood--a white girl of low-income farmers that are determined to eek out a living because they love Africa. In the late seventies, early eighties, through much upheaval in several countries. Enjoyed it so much I bought another copy for my niece, who will be traveling to Africa next summer on a fellowship to treat diseases. Really loved it.

Fuller's memoir has given me insight into the world of white colonialists in eastern Africa in a way that none of my previous reading has done.
She has resisted the temptation to consciously discuss the racism that imbued every aspect of the world she grew up in.
Instead, in writing the stories of her childhood and adolescence, she offers glimpses into that world, as she saw it herself at the time.
In this family, there was no falling down.It took me a while to work out the title - I initially thought it must refer to somebody having a gambling problem and greyhound racing.
I enjoyed reading this book.
It was the true story of a white girl growing up in Africa during the 70's and 80's.
The description of Africa was very vivid and sensory.
I could really feel what it was like.
The book focused on her family and where they went and what they did.
I especially liked the section about going to boarding school.
The book however, wasn't so gripping for me that I couldn't put it down, like it was for others.
A solid read I would recommend to people who enjoy memoirs and autobiographies.
Alexandra's parents go to bed at night with guns near their bed, the fear of terrorists is great.
I knew the bogyman wasn't real, but they knew the terrorist was.The book was hard to enjoy at times since my mind was often on the children, and I kept questioning the parent's reason for bringing them to Africa during such a turbulent time.
I justified Alexandra's parents in this way.Alexandra's mother was an alcoholic, and in time she lost her mind slowly as she lost one child after another.
I thought this book was going to be about Africa and how she came to see that the White people in Zimbabwe were in fact the 'bad guys' in the war but instead it was really about her family surviving in Africa.
I know that a lot of white Africans are terrible racists and have servants and are so prejudiced but if she showed us that some white africans (the narrator, perhaps) redeems themselves through seeing black people as human then it would have been a better, more poignant book.
This is the second book I've read by fuller and I just love her writing style and the story she has to tell.
Growing up in the 70's as ex-pats in a country still fighting for it's own independence.
And then to have to grow up in a family as unusual as alexandra's is just such a fascinating story.
A mother who is heartbroken from a loss of a child, who drinks to forget, who fights tooth and nail for her family.
And two young girls growing up in a changing Africa.
It's a brilliant story.
I can probably write my own version of it as well, but I don't want to.She says in "Cocktail hour under the tree of Forgetfulness":" No one starts a war warning that those involved will lose their innocence - that children will definitely die and be forever lost as a result of the conflict; that the war will not end for generations and generations, even after cease-fire have been declared and peace of treaties have been signed." I have read quite a few war-related memoirs lately and it is getting to me.
Ms. Fuller grew up in Africa, the opening lines of the book taking place in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe).
There is such a sense of place in this memoir, you can see it, smell it, taste it.
And be in awe of it.And yet, it is not just about Africa.
It is about a young girl living, coming of age, and finding out where she belongs.
Because a white girl in Africa does not really belong there, and she knows it.
Gun toting, racist, imperialist, daily drunken stuporish, impoverished farmers are Alexandra’s parents.
And she loves them, as most children love their parents.
I found this book slightly anti-African.
It left me feeling like; couldn't the British have left Africa alone and let them have their own country?
It does not seem right for there to be a British Africa.
No one reading this book is going to want to jump on a plane and travel Africa.It is an interesting read in light of the present political situation in Zimbabwe with regards to Robert Mugabe.
So much sadness and 'unsafeness', yet there is a wild excitement of living this African life, struggling to survivewith; war, the earth, the political upheaval, and daily living.
An unconventional memoir, and I think Fuller's commitment to write about her life in Sub-Saharan Africa through her own perspective as a child is an interesting stylistic choice, but for some reason, I dreaded this book as I was reading it, and I couldn't wait for it to be done. I think I struggled with so many short chapters skipping around in time without a reason or frame, and as a result, I felt anchor-less. I think her voice may speak to others more than me, but I simply did not enjoy reading this book.
Unfortunately for my project, it is almost entirely set in Zimbabwe, right when Rhodesia is at the end of the civil war, when the author was a child.
Near the end the family spends some time in Malawi and Zambia, but I'll have to add this to the pile of books I've already read from Zimbabwe/Rhodesia.
In fact her mother is furious that the civil war did not go in her favor, and clings to this idea of "White Rhodesia." Throughout the book they refer to the Africans who are trying to take back their country as "terrorists." I kept balking at the word; terrorism doesn't seem to be quite accurate although surely war is filled with terror.
Alexandra Fuller was just three when her parents moved from England to what was then Rhodesia.
They bought a farm and stubbornly fought to eek out a living in an environment hostile in more ways than one.
Hers is a unique view into a moment of history, made accessible and almost normal-seeming by the perspective of an uncensoring child.Given the gravity of the events surrounding the Fullers, it's not surprising that their lives are often touched by the kind of tragedy those in more developed places believe they are immune to.
But I was never tempted to put the book down because at its core its a story of survival, and I was deeply moved by the intensity with which they managed to do that.
