https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/283022.The_Squire_s_Tale
I stopped when I heard something about 'Sir Hatubris' (I don't think I spelled that right) and was laughing after only a few sentences.Basically, this boy named Terence who has lived with a hermit his whole life meets Gawain, who is on his way to King Arthur's court to try and become a knight.
Of course, since Terence has been raised in the middle of the woods by a hermit, he needs some training, and things just get funnier and funnier .
I would especially recommend THE LIONESS AND HER KNIGHT, though you would probably need to read THE SAVAGE DAMSEL AND THE DWARF first...)
It turns a lot of the stories, even Malory's, to Gawain's advantage, and plays up the idea of him being the Maidens' Knight, and so on.
I wish there'd been a longer treatment of the story of Ragnelle (though here she is conflated with Lady Florie and called Lady Lorie), but I appreciate Morris' feeling that Malory was rather too hard on Gawain, and his comments on Gawain's earlier character.There's very little about Kai, but he is at least a character you can sympathise with in his concern for Arthur, with nods back to his literary ancestry in the way he clings to traditions like squires not sitting in their knights' presence.Overall, it's a very simple story, but that didn't make it unenjoyable.
I love this book.
who does?), but I really love this story.
It is based in medieval times when King Arthur ruled England.
It follows a boy named Terence from humble circumstances who becomes a squire to a Gawain who is off to become a knight.
Throughout the book they face many adventures together with quests and learning more about themselves and others.
Terence learns his heritage, Gawain helps save King Arthur's life, with the help of Terence.
It is one of my favorite books, and this is just the beginning of the series!
This was fun, quick book, but I think I had too high of expectations before going into it.
I did like the direction of the story, and I think it sets up some interesting things that could happen.
But I didn't really get into the story for half the book, and I thought it was going to be more humorous than it was.
Don't get me wrong, there are some funny bits, but I was wanting more.
That being said, I'm now more invested than I thought I would be, so I want to continue with the series and see what happens next!
Clever, light-hearted, and some times down right hilarious, The Squire's Tale is an excellent story of the days of King Arthur. Whatever your age, you should read this!
I think I might have read a different book in the series once, but that was a very long time ago and out of order to boot.
One hilarious adventure after the other,  The Squire's Tale  is a buddy-story similar to The Last Knight (one of my favorite books) but with less swearing.
The adventures lead to their end, and while some things were predictable (like who Terence's Father was) others are slightly more supring (like who the Enchantress is)I had one or two criticisms with the book (which brought it to four stars) but they mostly involve spoilers.
I definitely want to read the other books in the series, Delightful and interesting!
bratfarrar says, "whimsy and maturity and general decency are why I really like Diana Wynne Jones and Garth Nix and Gerald Morris. That is, each writes characters that I care about and worlds that I want to explore, and tells stories that make me want to be a better person."
There's also a weird thing where like, the moral lessons the characters learn are important things about How To Treat Women but the book itself doesn't seem to particularly LIKE any of its female characters?
So you end up with "Gawain learns he should let women make their own choices, even though their choices are usually pretty stupid" which....
I'm not sure I'm comfortable with.The author's note talks about wanting to redeem Gawain who has, since Lancelot was introduced to the story-cycle, been demoted from Arthur's Greatest Knight.
Gawain is probably my second-favourite Table Knight so I understand the sentiment behind the series, and probably will read more despite being ambivalent about this one.

I have a special place in my heart for books in which the protagonist has a strong, good character. Despite the choice of being mildly selfish, or denying one's own wishes, these characters choose to act in moral ways that strongly benefit those around them. Terence is such a character. He learns to be a squire and serves his master and any that have need of his help to the best that he capable. I really loved this book. (I don't five-star lightly)
Just not my thing. Found the interactions between characters forced and stilted rather than genuine. The book didn't move from scene to scene in small steps but flew between them from one place talking about going to place "b" then BAM at place "b" dealing with a situation. It is a style I do not prefer (but then, I'm well aware I do not speak for everyone).
I LOVED THIS BOOK. Amazing. The whole series, actually
4.5/5I can't believe how long it had been since I had read this one. Within a few pages of picking it up yesterday, all of my happy feelings towards this book came flooding back, and now I want to reread the entire series! This book has a perfect balance of humor and thoughtfulness, and the series on the whole is a fun and interesting take on the Arthurian legends. Highly recommended.
It wasn't until page 155 that I became interested in where the story was going, out of a 210 page book.The Squire's Tale honestly reminded me a bit of The Hedge Knight, since there is a large knight who gets a squire, while neither of them really know what they're doing.
They both have a very comedic relief type of feel to them, except I actually loved the characters in The Hedge Knight and the humour wasn't as childish.
I read this book about a week ago so things may be a bit muddy.The main reason I didn't like it was because the characters were constantly discussing what was and was not lady-like.
I understand that this was set in a time period where women were expected to be polite and not do certain things, and if they only discussed it a couple of times I would be fine, but I was encountering one of these conversations in every single chapter!
There didn't seem to be any set plot; I was shocked when I realized I had already gone through half of the book and nothing really major had happened yet.
It was quite some time ago when I read this, but I liked it a lot then... I shall endeavor to review it when I reread it.
I read this before bed last night and found it both sweet and charming. I was a bit taken aback by the body count (all the killing felt so _casual_), and by the swearing (even if it was all in French). On the other hand, I loved our main characters, and the humor. I also felt like it was setting up a world where morality is important, while still telling the story of realistic, flawed characters, all in a very short, middle-grade format. I liked it more than Lloyd Alexander, and almost enough to compare to Narnia.
I didn't really enjoy this book because it wasn't 'my cup of tea'. This story takes time in a medieval time and talks about kings, kingdoms, knights, and those medieval relating things. It was hard for me to follow the plot and it was hard for me to understand some things. I don't think I'll be planing to finish this series or read any other book like these (because I prefer more realistic stories or fantasy).
Man, I was so excited to start a series that had a billion books in it to occupy me for a while!
But I didn't like this one bit :(The whole plot of the book was literally the main knight having to learn "Maybe...
are people too??" and I was sitting there like "UGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH".
what the heck is with the default Goodreads star rating system?
2 stars is not "it was ok" - 2 is "I wanted to poke my eyeballs out but only half the time, not the whole time" get it together rating system.)
Why I keep reading them despite my disgust at the violence and almost silliness of the characters is beyond my understanding, but whenever I come across a retelling of these stories I am compelled to read it.
Didn't like: The women were not treated as well as the men; they never were well developed characters despite driving the plot more than the knights themselves.
I know it's the ancient story but I was hoping it could be told in a way that didn't come off so sexist...
I hope the sequels have a better treatment of the women.
It's a take on Arthurian legend with the main character becoming Sir Gawain's squire and accompanying him through a number of adventures.
It's also kind of fun seeing the Celtic influence so soon after reading Heroes of the Dawn, such as a reference to the story of Chuchulainn and Gawain's tossing of his sword into a pool of water.
I only wish the story of Sir Gawain and the Green Knight was more included.I will probably want to read this again with my kids, and may give it five stars in the future.
This is the first in a series of King Arthur adventures from the viewpoint of Morris's created character, a squire for one of the Knights of the Round Table.
I recommend this book for Middle School aged children (My daughter found it in her middle school library and devoured the entire series!), but I also enjoyed it as an adult.
What I liked: the squire's character, the honesty of the telling--morris doesn't whitewash that affairs occur but covers them cleanly and without unneeded detail, and Morris's sense of humor.
I am not a Arthur fanatic, but I recommend this series.
Terrence comes from where he knows not, but was raised by a wise and humorous magician who sees the future but forgets the past.
Terrence is lucky to be picked up by a soon-to-be Knight of King Arthur's Round Table, Sir Gaiwan, and together they begin their life of questing.
As they seal their friendship, Sir Gaiwan and Terrence manage to find adventure, magic, love, and possibly where Terrence really comes from.
I can't wait to read the next book in this so far eight book series!For fans of fantasy, myth, humor, and Arthurian legends.
I read this book many years ago and quite enjoyed it and while it is still a fun read, I think I've a bit outgrown it which makes me terribly sad.
It's very fun, the characters are lovely and I still harbor a ridiculous love for Robin, but it's a really quick read for me now.
I have the next couple of books in the series and I'm going to re-read them too because there are later books I haven't read yet, so I'm sure it's going to be fun and enjoyable, I just don't think it will be more than brain candy.
The first 150 pages read like a hodge podge of Arthurian legends smooshed into one book with a young protagonist thrown in. I considered not finishing for a while, but then the last 60 pages were fantastic! This would be a lot better if there was less Gawain (jousting, sparring, boasting, tale telling ... bo-ring) and a lot more Terence (unknown parentage, fairy visions ... yes, please). But ultimately it's a pretty good, fresh take on some old tales.
This book is about Terence, a boy who doesn't know about his parents or past. He soon meets a knight, Gawain, who wishes to be a knight of the round table of King Arthur. Through his adventures as Sir Gawain's squire, he meets new people, faces new challenges, and is able to answer the question of who is he and who are his parents.  This book is okay, the descriptions were pretty well, but other than that, I thought the plot was a little weak and the ending didn't come out too well.
Gerald Morris has taken King Arthur and his court and turned the traditional stories into wonderful, witty, and fun to read renditions that add new ideas and show principles that make them enjoyable and valuable. Good read for anyone who loves reading about magic, a good hero, and a new twist on a traditional story.
I'm the kind of person who really enjoys revisiting past favorites. I first read this book in middle school and it opened the door for me to fall in love with Arthurian legend. Having since read many adaptations of various parts of the legend (from A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court to  Sir Gawain and the Green Knight), I'm still very grateful for this accessible and fun little book.
I love this author's humor. It's witty and sarcastic, just my cup of tea. Plus, there are knights, squires, and King Arthur legends galore in these books, so how can you go wrong? There's no particular order to them, although The Squire's Tale was written first, I started with The Savage Damsel and Her Dwarf first and fell in love with them. Glad you're going to read them too.
As a huge fan of King Arthur, I absolutely loved this story. It tells the story of Gawain from the point of view of his squire, Terence. There is questing, love, magic, fighting, and all of my favorite characters and it is written at about a fifth grade level.
