https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31812958-the-draycott-murder-mystery
My suspicions kept shifting, and I never could quite make up my mindThere are familiar elements to the mystery, but as a whole it feels original; it is firmly rooted in the golden age but I saw the influence of an earlier generation of sensation novelists at play as well as the influence of more famous crime writers who were Molly Thynne’s peers.Some of those peers may have written more complex, more sophisticated, mysteries; but I can’t think of one who wrote a more engaging human drama.The characters involved in this story were so real, so natural, so believable, that I couldn’t help being drawn in and their concerns became mine.That took time, and in the early chapters of this book I didn’t think I would like this book as much as I did.It isn’t that it’s perfect.
And yet it took me days and days to finish the book, because the telling lacked spark.
The characters felt wooden, like something out of a society play of the period.
I'm sure there's an audience for bricks under hats, but as someone said of Gladstone: it wasn't enough that he always had several aces up his sleeve; he had to give the impression that God had put them there.
If you like rabbits out of hats in the final chapter, go for it.The sad part is that this book could have been so much more than it was.
Kindle Unlimited | I've read enough fair-quality golden age mysteries to recognize a good one, and this is a good one.
My only complaint is my usual one: I knew who the killer was fairly early on, which makes it less enjoyable to follow along with the supposed red herrings and the amateur detective's investigations.
I guess it just wasn't as obvious at the time of publication, when the reading public hadn't had exposure to quite so many of this style of mystery as I have become accustomed to.
Still worth the read and very well done.
Well, ...I was prepared to love this novel but although written in style with lovely drawn characters I just did not feel the urge to read on and on. The tension gets lost too offen, the smalltalk is a bit too lengthy and so after having read more than half of it I just skipped to the end to find out I guessed the murderer correctly which was an astonishing surprise.
The story gets lost in all the dialogue that leads nowhere. Once the story is lost it is found only to be lost again and again. There is not an opportunity for the story to pick up momentum.
The case twists and turns and ends up with John being prosecuted for the murder.A faithful fiancee, her enthusiastic uncle who loves mysteries, a strict and successful lawyer, an ailing aunt, a supportive friend and an uncooperative doctor, everyone believes in his innocence.
Only the proofs are against him.Thynne keeps you on the hook and very well engages you in the story.The culprit comes as a shock but nevertheless, you empathize with him.
A good read for the mystery lovers.

A very good Murder mystery from the golden age of murder mysteries. However I guessed the murderer before the end and I didn’t quite like the way certain discoveries made by the protagonist was kept hidden from the reader till the recap at the end.
Keeps you in the darkEntertaining and interesting. Kept guessing till the end. Good read and good use of language as didn't realize the age it was written in.
A really great lost classic. Full review at classicmystery.wordpress.com
Beautifully written. Twist ending that snuck up on me.Gentle period mystery. A nice quiet read in a cold, rainy evening with a good pot of tea. And cookies!
This book is a must-read for Golden Age Mystery fans. You won't regret entering the world created by Molly Thyme. It's a wonderful novel, with a decent mystery and not too obvious outcome. I definitely recommend it to murder mysteries fans.
This was Thynne's first murder mystery, and it started out strong with great atmospheric introduction to the small village of Keys, stronger winds and the discovery of a dead woman inside a young man's farmhouse on his return from a long trek through the countryside with the early clue of another party involved peering through the window yet unseen by the young man.
How is this for a sample sentence written in 1928: "The gale swept on its devastating way across the open meadowland that surrounded Keys, increasing every moment in violence and causing the timbers of the small farmhouse which stood at the end of a blind lane about a mile from the village to creak and groan under its terrific onslaught."3.5 stars for me and my last but best Thynne reading
A smart little book - pacey and well written. Liked the characters and the story kept you guessing and seemed to be written in quite a modern fashion considering it was written in 1928. Would definitely read more from this author.
It's an easy nighttime read that won't keep you from falling asleep.On the "downside": the case against the accused is described as ironclad.
Even though the period is the late 1920s, I'd say the case was too weak, way too weak to take to court.And our "detective" Fayre is much, much, much more Watson than Holmes.
Finally, you will guess the real killer a couple of chapters before he does though you may be mistaken in a detail or two.So why four stars rather than three?
And, as I said at the beginning, I liked the characters, enjoyed being with them for a couple of hours.
I got this for free on Amazon after a tip-off from a Golden Age crime loving-friend and it's really good. I had the culprit worked out before the end, but that didn't bother me too much because the story was interesting and the characters felt real. I would definitely read more from Molly Thynne - who I hadn't heard of let alone read before. Well worth a read if you like Agatha Christie, Dorothy L Sayers, Ngaio Marsh, Margery Allingham et al.
This was nicely written, and the plot was fairly suspenseful, but I felt that the writer cheated a little in the way that she depicted the character that turned out to be the murderer. One the whole, though, I enjoyed it, and I will read her other mysteries.
Very readable for a vintage mystery. You may be able to guess the ending, but the characters kept me engaged.
