https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15776309-reconstructing-amelia
It is a poignant story about a single mother and successful career woman (Kate) doing the best she can to raise daughter, but following Amelia’s death, she cannot escape her own regrets and guilt over what happened, feeling like had she been a better parent, she could have prevented it.It is also a beautiful coming of age tale for 15 year old Amelia, as well as several of the tertiary teenage characters, and explores first love and heartbreak, and the bonds of friendship anbd loyalty, in a delicate and beautiful, yet highly realistic, way.
that highly unlikely and ill conceived plot actually pales in comparison to the crazy twists the book then takes.We go back in time through Amelia's simpering and moronic prose and we discover the following:Her rude and obnoxious and self centered BFF (who has been scripted by someone who either never met a teenager or only met ones via sitcoms for the girl speaks only in, like, super annoying acronyms which is SO like WTF and never ONCE did I, like, LOL or feel like this was, like, SO IT but rather, um, offensive to teens everywhere) has fallen totally in love with Ian who, because the author decided to make British, does not say ONE SINGLE SENTENCE without 'bloody' 'mate' 'knickers' or some other means to prove to me that, yes, yes he really IS bloody British!
And I really wasn't expecting that.I think the comparisons between Reconstructing Amelia and Gone Girl have done this book a disservice.
They do not break my heart like this book did.I can see why the marketing department at HarperCollins read Reconstructing Amelia and saw an opportunity to market it as the dark, twisty thriller of the Gone Girl variety.
Told in alternating perspectives - of Kate in the present and Amelia in the weeks leading up to her death - the mystery unravels to reveal ever more mysteries.It shouldn't be grouped with Gone Girl, though, because it is not that kind of book.
I wanted to like this, but the writing is really bad.
The whole thing was just ridiculous.Great potential here, but it’s wasted by bad writing, a plot that falls short, and characters that are just too stupid and not believable.I’m seriously disappointed, because I really wanted to like this book and it just fell flat.
Because the main problem with this novel isn’t really the plot, or the lack of brains the characters seem to have, it’s the writing.
And a novel with this much potential and this kind of plot shouldn’t be boring.Overall: I know there are a lot of people who loved this.
But yea, this book was bad.
In a nutshell this book is what I said it would be - a Lifetime movie meets Gossip Girl mixed with The Skulls & a dash of Law&Order: SVU for, an attempt at, good measure.
If that is your sort of thing then enjoy but if you are looking for imagination, colorful writing, complex characters & a story that doesn't have plot holes then I suggest you pass on this book.
That book was genius - twisted and haunted you long after that last page.
It's laughable to put these two books side by side.
A glowing review in Entertainment Weekly suggested this book is the must-read thriller of 2013, the next Gone Girl.
Based on that review, and bored by the last book I finished, I was eager to read this one.
Kate, a single mother in her late 30s, is a junior partner in a large NY law firm, logging in the hours and missing her teenaged daughter, Amelia.
Told in the present (from Kate's perspective) interspersed with the past (from Amelia's perspective in the weeks leading up to her death, as well as through texts and Facebook status updates), the book kept me reading.
Good lord this book is awful.
It reads like a novelization of a particularly insipid Lifetime movie.
This book is a disaster in all respects.
None of these characters feel like people.
They are some of the most underdeveloped characters I have ever read: to call them cardboard would be an insult to cardboard.
This author's prose is also terrible.
She has no flare with language at all.
She eschews descriptive language of any kind, and her writing style (sentence structure and vocabulary) are grossly simplistic.
A brain damaged seven year old could turn a better phrase than this author.
I am no book snob.
*3.5 Stars• Gripping and mysterious build-up • Intriguing plot• Wonderfully composed characters • Decent conclusion, but wasn't as blown away as I'd hoped*Would recommend*
The format itself was interesting by showing so many different mediums, though at times confusing.Throughout the book, I was interested to know the truth about what happened to Amelia.
I'm guessing this was a literary mechanism to allow for information of the investigation to be explained by Kate and with her point of view.
Kate is super surprised to find out that Jeremy is the father of Amelia because they only had sex one time.
If you're having sex with multiple people and you happen to get pregnant, perhaps you shouldn't just assume the father of your child is the one that you had sex with the most.
3.5 stars / Recommend / fast, easy read / enjoyed the characters and the story / suspected what actually happened to Amelia and a few other mysteries / was happy with the ending / no real wow factor for me but all in all it was a very good read
Reconstructing Amelia by Kimberly McCreight is one of those books that parents of teenagers will read and think, could this possibly be happening in my child's life or is it all just hype.  "Do you really know whats going on inside your daughter's head"  What a brilliant premise for a novel. We have become so advanced in social media and yet so naive to the dangers and consequences of the advancements. Once there was a time when bullying at school might have been confined to the school yard or t
We have become so advanced in social media and yet so naive to the dangers and consequences of the advancements.
That's a scary thought......I enjoyed the plot for this novel as it is thought provoking with plenty of drama and the sort of book that should create quite a good group discussion in a book club.I did however find elements of the story quite unrelalistic especially when (view spoiler)[ Kate tags along with the leutienent when he conducts his investigations , this just wouldn't have happened.
This was a book club read and I liked it and will look forward to discussing it with friends.
I wanted to know the whole backstory.This was not, however, a perfect book.
At times I could feel Kate's grief, but then I'd think she was jumping to conclusions and raging for no reason.As for Amelia, I felt sorry for her.
She spent way too much time alone, had very little guidance from Kate, and seemed smart enough to know she should turn to an adult when things got way out of her control.Some reviewers felt this was a story about bullying, but I didn't.
Amelia wanted to be accepted and she was so lonely that she accepted the invitation from The Magpies.
It had a boatload of twists I wasn't expecting, tragic coincidences, and characters I could very well see the motivations and reactions for throughout the narrative.This narrative trades between the story of the mother, Kate, and Amelia, her 15-year old daughter.
Kate and Amelia both were relatable characters, and I found myself following the timeline and portrayals well even as the book moved from past to present and featured trades between texts (which if you're thrown out of the narrative in the print, the audiobook does a good job of presenting those in an alternative way) and perspective points.Definitely would recommend this read, and I'd gladly read it again for the experience.Overall score: 4/5 stars.
In the beginning of the novel readers meet Kate, a single mother and successful lawyer who struggles daily with determining which role is more important.
Her daughter, Amelia, is a bright, creative, thoughtful and focused high school student.
Despite Kate’s “crushing work hours, she knew her daughter.
Upon reaching the school, Kate discovers that the severity of the situation has escalated: Amelia has jumped to her death from the school’s roof.
The gripping storyline follows Kate as she tries to uncover the truth behind her daughter’s death, leading the reader through the lives (and lies) of students, parents, teachers and employees.
Despite these maddening shortcomings, I was able to overlook most of them most of the time as the novel fairly hums along with just enough speed and tension to keep you turning the pages.
Not this time.
One thing that really bugged me:(view spoiler)[when Amelia's case is reopened, why would Kate as her mother be allowed to become so involved in the investigation -- going on interview calls and asking questions.
If Kate had hired a PI, and was going about this on her own without police involvement, that would have made sense.
I like mysteries, I like books about teenagers, I like books that incorporate different kinds of media (e-mails, texts, blog posts, etc.), and I think the book had a good premise: a seemingly-happy fifteen year old girl flings herself off the roof of her fancy, private school, and her mother is determined to figure out why.
But it all goes downhill from there.Amelia is the cliche of the Perfect High School Daughter: she is a star athlete, a straight-A student who would NEVER do anything to seriously disrespect her mother or her crazy best friend or step out of line in any way.
I’m just not a fan of contemporary murder mysteries unless they’re penned by Nora Roberts, my favorite guilty-pleasure author.
I think one of my big problems with contemporary thrillers is that their plot twists are over-hyped.
Also, contemporary thrillers tend to have an overabundance of unlikeable characters, and this book was no exception.
But I did enjoy this one more than both of the aforementioned books, though I rated Gone Girl higher because I had read less of this genre at that time and was thus more surprised by the twists.
O-M-G! I'm so glad that I was a teenage girl way before the arrival of the internet. These girlies take bullying to a whole new level!
I quite enjoyed this book.
The ending was a little bit of a letdown.
There was this build-up to the ending and Kate finding out what really happened to Amelia but then it ended up being something very predictable.I did like how the mystery unravelled, going back and forth between Amelia's and Kate's point of view while everything still remained this huge mystery, and the build-up towards the end.
It was only the conclusion of the book that ended up ruining the story for me.
I think McCreight did an amazing job with this novel, making sure all the details match up and leaving no unanswered questions.
""I don't know what she was doing with them," Seth said, "But I know that nothing Amelia could have read would have changed how much she loved you.
Sylvia I had trouble liking but she did care about Amelia.Things I thought I knew or guessed out were turned on their head and some I hadn't considered were very surprising but made sense.
the old but true saying "couldn't put the book down." The sense of dread when I realized what was going on and hoping it wouldn't be true.But:As for whether this person was telling the truth?
It's not QUITE as twisted and dark as Gillian Flynn's novels, but the elements are definitely present, and this is a powerful read.The story begins with Kate Baron, a single mother and attorney, receiving a call from her daughter Amelia's exclusive private school, saying that Amelia had plagiarized her latest English essay.
However, there are still plenty of unlikeable characters worthy of the reader's intense dislike, and this portrait of the confused and manipulated high school student is extremely powerful.Recommended for: fans of Gillian Flynn, teenagers looking for relatable yet more mature reading material, and readers looking for a thrilling novel more complex than the average bestselling thriller.Readalikes: Okay, Gillian Flynn's the obvious go-to author.
Alas this ends up being a fairly typical absentee mom didn't really "know" her daughter until it was too late followed by a giant mess of cliched plot devices and stock thriller characters with so many psychological problems between them its hard to imagine how they all function daily in society.Without giving away too much, because despite my misgivings I wouldn't say DON'T read this just don't go in thinking its the next "Gone Girl" like the book jacket reviews claim, you the reader will be given some GIANT clues about what Amelia's "secrets" are within like the first four pages, they will seem really obvious because they are and then you still have another 250+ pages to go until her mom figures it all out.
Really, there isn't any and you don't get to know any of the characters well enough to really care except for Amelia.
Amelia mysterious texter fried Ben is really William her father (that she doesn't know about) pretending to be a 16 year old kid to get to know her...yeah what???
Kate: Amelia's father is William even though Kate spends most of the book thinking it's Daniel.
Kate ends up at the end with one of Amelia's teachers who you also never get to know...so who cares...The worst part of the book is that you are on the edge of your seat to know things and then you find out...
For the first third, I found it to be a decent suspense novel, and I was even impressed at the believability of some of the plot twists.But then that all fell apart, as if the author had just thrown in a bunch of plot points she had no idea how to resolve.
Several of them were faux-resolved in completely unbelievable ways—as in, I have read trashy drug store thrillers that are more believable.
The author was an attorney so I'm sure she knows too.Just a terrible mystery.
I gave this the old college try of 75 pages and then read the ending. UGH. I think this is actually a YA book and I found reading texts and Facebook pages just down right annoying. The story is not original, the writing is trite and nothing appealed to me. I worry how I will discuss this at book club without hurting the feelings of the person recommending it. This was not for me and there are just too many good books for me to read to waste my time on this.
I can't really speak to the accuracy of the High-Powered New York Lawyers, but the teenagers sound crazy, and the English kid is constantly all "I do beg your pardon" and "I am such a prat" and calling people "love" which is inexplicably spelled "luv." There was one section of dialogue that was so bad I dog-eared the page just so I could copy it into my Goodreads review.
The following is spoken by a GROWN ASS MAN who works I.T. for a High-Powered New York Law Firm:"Because you don't want to like get into the deets of your kid's Facebook page.
Amelia is a bright, creative and a very thoughtful student so when her mother receives a call from her school to come and pick her up because she's been suspended she is has no idea as to what her daughter could've done.Once Kate arrives at the school she is shocked to to find that Amelia has fallen to her death from the school roof.
The police are saying it's suicide but Kate can't and won't believe this is true.Months later after Amelia's death Kate receives a text message saying "Amelia didn't jump."Kate then sets out to find out the truth.
Within 36 hours of starting this book about a private-school teenager's apparent suicide, I'd come to the end, and I nearly felt out of breath, was deeply moved and had become totally absorbed by both the exciting, heart-wrenching plot and the well-drawn characters.
Some books are beautifully rendered but sort of boring.
Some are all about action and plot, but thin on character detail and realistic development.
McCreight has managed to skillfully do BOTH.
A very satisfying read, easy to recommend to friends, and I CANT wait to see what McCreight writes next!
I liked Kate straight away, and in Amelia, McCreight has done an excellent job of writing a precocious teenager who's actually, properly likeable rather than being unbearably annoying or unbelievable.I actually guessed quite a lot of the twists before they were revealed: they're not difficult to figure out and, since there isn't much of a big reveal moment for the majority of them, I'm guessing the author realised (slash intended) this.
Not in the sense that the stories are similar - the people in Reconstructing Amelia are a lot more likeable, for one thing - but in the sense that this is a smart, well-plotted, well-paced thriller with intriguing characters, nail-biting tension and a lot of good twists, which is incredibly readable and has the potential for mass appeal.
She’s the prototypical single mom trying to make the best life for her daughter.
I just think a teen, even a nice teen, would at least every once in a while feel bitter/pissed/enraged at a mom who works so much (I say this as a working mom myself; my kids are young but I don’t doubt the work thing is going to haunt me at some point).
Also I don’t think such a career-driven woman would be all “land yourself a man!”I did think the relationship between Amelia and Sylvia was realistic and shows that oh-so-common best friendship where one girl dominates with her personality, neediness, et cetera.
