https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4142887-the-scarab-murder-case
He is joined by his friend John F-X Markham the New York County District Attorney and his able sidekick Sergeant Ernest Heath.Kyle is found dead in Egyptologist Dr Mindrum W C Bliss's private museum at the foot of a large statue of Anubis with a smaller statue of Sakhmet (the Goddess of Venegeance) seemingly having fallen on his skull from the top of an adjacent shelf.Was it an accident or has someone killed him?
Hani, seemingly a dark, trouble-making gent, is the prime suspect, closely followed by Salveter.
It isn't bad, but I prefer the other stories he wrote before this.There are enough clues to notice the "plot twist", so I am happy with that.
An Egyptologist lies murdered.
The murder weapon is Sakhamet the goddess of vengeance.
Well, who else could have read the incriminating letter written in Egyptian hieroglyphics?
If it wasn’t for the foul language, I would have really liked it.
It was both fun and scary to read some of the dated material in it.
I’ve been thinking of consulting a doctor…It’s a lack of fresh air, sir.”Or for an old name for a flashlight, “push button flash” One more note, I’ve never read a mystery that has footnotes in it.
He uses them to catch up on who’s who if you haven’t read the first books.

The Scarab Murder Case5th in the Philo Vance mystery series set during July 13-14, 1930. Vance, an independently wealthy college educated, amateur detective, uses his deductive skills and psychological knowledge to help his New York City District Attorney friend to unravel the murder of the financial backer of an Egyptologist and his work in Egypt. As usual, the action is set in New York City. His methods are unconventional and go against the more rigid police investigative methods and lawyer legal requirements.
This is a tight mystery, with the action confined to just these few characters. It is enjoyable as suspicion passes around from one to another. There are several instances of things-not-as-they appear which are all clearly explained at the end. A lot of Egypt-ese, but that does not detract from it. As Philo Vance novels go, he sticks to relevant investigation and does not wander off for pages at a time displaying his erudite knowledge.
Required a lot of concentration on the timings of people's movements and the exact layout of rooms, something I struggle with! I felt the characters could have been better developed instead. I don't know if this is typical of this series, but I was only moderately impressed. I liked the Egyptian angle though.
Não foi o melhor deste meu preferido, e achei que tinha potencialidade por a temática ser egípcia.Os pontos que perde pelo desenvolvimento do enredo, recupera com o final inesperado.
Tre*** e mezzo
Given that both seem to be functioning in New York City at roughly the same time I look forward for evidence that Van Dine is directly or indirectly responding to the direct or indirect challenges that arise from having two such similar characters functioning in what should be the same universe.The Scarab Murder Case begins with the ever vexing problem of how to insert civilians into murder mysteries without the risk of the reader coming to suspect that your detective is, in truth, a serial murderer.
Van Dine is at it again with a plot filled with more twists than a back country road.Taking place in a brownstone mansion equipped with its very own Egyptian museum, The Scarab Murder Case involves murder, love, jealousy, and corruption.
The Scarab Murder Case was a quick read, loaded with motivation and page turning hooks.
I recommend this book (and any of Van Dine's Philo Vance works) to anyone who enjoys a good, clean murder without all the sensationalism of gore.
This was my first Philo Vance mystery, and I enjoyed it. I found an early (1930) edition in a used bookstore, and just handling the book seemed to send me back to the time it was written. It must have been quite a sensation when first published, given all the hoopla over the recent archaeological excavations in Egypt. The plot was amusingly intricate, and the erudite discussions about everything from archaeology to jurisprudence just added to the fun. I'm not sure I would have liked the Philo Vance character in real life, but he would have been fun to watch.
This series is evolving. Philo Vance, the main "detective," is taking over from the other characters. This book covered less than 48 hours. The solution seemed relatively obvious. The end-game was less than satisfactory. The protagonists still seem unashamed by their willingness to keep people in harm's way just in an attempt to deduce the culprit via unconventional methods. I will probably not continue with this series. If I attempt, please stop me!
An excellent crime. In Van Dine's stories everything is perfectly calculated and logical, and in this one the murderer's plan is really diabolical (and maybe too much complicated). The Egyptian and archaeological parts are very interesting. I just think that the crime would have been a bit more intriguing with more characters in it: there are very few possible suspects (that is in Van Dine's style, indeed).
When a wealthy philanthropist is killed in a small, private Egyptology museum, the clues point to Dr. Bliss, the director of the museum, the beneficiary of the philanthropist's largesse, and the man who lives in an adjoining house. But Vance will not let the police arrest Bliss, for fear of a miscarriage of justice. This is really heavy on Vance's Egyptological lore, including his ability to read hieroglyphics.
I'm not that into Egyptology, so the background surrounding the clues to this case wasn't of great interest to me. The plot itself is well executed with the perp and the detective both adding red herrings. Who would have thought there was enough space in a NYC home to house a museum of treasurers from the pyramids?
This actually IS your grandmother's mystery novel, published in 1929, only seven years after Tut's tomb was discovered. Philo Vance is a bit like Lord Peter Wimsey, feigning effete ennui, but intense and sharp underneath. Great fun, and a blast from the past.
I love old books, the kind you have to turn the pages with care and the paper even smells old. My copy dates back to 1928. Philo Vance was the precursor of so many later detectives. Suave, brilliant, off the cuff, good looking, he worked to solve the odd cases. Lovely
Not as entertaining or difficult to figure out as other Philo Vance stories. Would say I enjoy the characters as usual. I find it interesting that the book is told by someone tagging along with Philo but that person rarely says anything, an odd choice.
dated but interesting.
Il mio primo libro di questo autore. Sono abituato a Sherlock Holmes e Vance ha delle interessanti somiglianze ma mantiene una sua identità forte e peculiare. Ne leggerò sicuramente altri :)
read between summer 1970 & summer 1974
wonderful old detective novel...will definitely read more of the series and watch the movies
