https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79852.The_Passions_of_the_Mind

به نظرم مردم قرن پیش حوصله و وقت بیشتری برای خواندن کتاب داشتند و برای همین نویسنده تا این حد تشویق میشد به جزئیات بی مورد بپردازد .اما از حق نگذریم که مولف حس بی طرفی را نگه داشته و حتی جاهایی با فروید مهربان هم هست.
کاری به این ندارم که مبانی روانشناسی فروید امروزه چقدر درست اند اما اینکه انسانهایی در هر جای تاریخ به خود جرات داده اند و سوال پرسیده اند حتی اگر جوابهای غلطی هم پیدا کرده باشند باز هم در جهت رشد و اعتلای انسان پرچم دارند.
چیزی که تمام کتاب حس میکردم این بود که چقدر عقل و دانش در برابر جهل انسان بی دفاعند.
تصویری که از فروید توی ذهنم بود مربوط میشد به کتابای درسی دوره دبیرستان که ذهنیت منفی بود ولی اونجوری که ایروینک استون شرح میده فروید یک شخص کاملا پایبند به مسائل اخلاقی و خانواده دوست بود یه جورایی تا آخر داستان متوجه میشید که اون برای خانوادش نقش پدرخوانده رو داشت فروید یه انسان پیشرو بود و مسائلی رو بیان کرد که دیگران جرات مطرح کردن اونا نداشتن و با وجود تمام مخالفت هایی که جامعه پزشکی و روانپزشکی، گروه های دینی و حتی مقامات سیاسی و دولتی با تئوری های اون داشتن، باز هم از دیدگاه های خودش صرف نظر نکرد و بالاخره جایگاهی برای خودش و افکارش در سطح جهانی پیدا کرد.
کتاب بسیار دوست داشتنی ای بود.
یه مقدار ترجمه ش یه جاهایی بد بود (مثلا بخش های آخرش راجع به آیدی و اگو و سوپراگو) ولی اگر اساسا با حرفای فروید آشنایی داشته باشید میشد فهمید چی داره میگه.
از بیوگرافی هایی هستش که خوندنش رو توصیه میکنم.زندگی فروید هم مثل زندگی تمام شخصیت های بزرگ تاریخ پر از پیچ و خم بوده.
و خب نهایتا دستاوردی براش داشته که خودش هم باور نمیکرده بتونه بهش برسه.بیشترین چیزی هم که برام جذابه تو بیوگرافی ها مشکلات اصلی زندگی اون فرده.
به نظر من بزرگ ترین مشکلات فروید برمیگرده به دوره پیریش و همزمانیش با جنگ های جهانی.
تا قبل از این هروقت اسم زیگموند فروید می اومد یه آدم عصبی که زیادی تو مسایل جنسی ریز شده و میخواد به زور روح رفیع آدمی!
فروید طبعی به مراتب حساستر از اونچه فکر میکردم داشته و به عنوان یه پزشک که تونسته پی ببره همه بیماریها صرفا نتیجه عوارض جسمی نیستن و روان آدمی میتونه حتی بیشتر تاثیر داشته باشه، موفق عمل کرده.
بهرحال به هیچ عنوان نمیتوان نقش اصلی فروید رو در آنچه که سالها بعد نه تنها در پزشکی اعصاب و روان بلکه در زندگی شخصی تک تک ما آدمها به وقوع پیوسته ندیده گرفت
I read "Passions of the Mind" in high school--- my first introduction to Freud and to fin-de-siecle Vienna and the Habsburg Monarchy.
I was fascinated enough with Vienna and its twilight to ultimately go on to do a PhD based on Habsburg studies, and Stone's account of Freud's life sent me to read about the history of psychoanalysis and ultimately off into critical theory.This is a slow, ponderous book.
But it's a good introduction to Freud and his life, and it's full of period detail and research.
نزدیک به 300 صفحه ش رو خوندم دیگه نتونستم 700ص دیگه رو با همین شکل جلو برم، پر از توصیفات اضافی،جزئیات غیرضروری و بشدت خسته کننده
The dialog in this novel is not credible, with Freud speaking what suspiciously appears to be lengthy extracts from his published works, and most characters apparently trying to sum up the essence of their psychoanalytic theories in long-winded, paragraphic declamations.
Is the author trying to leave an impression of escape from evil and arrival in a new land, and some sense of immortality?
During this time I had a number of uninteresting jobs, but found plenty of time outside of work to study, renew old friendships and get involved in community politics.The biggest political accomplishment of the year was the creation of what we called the Park Ridge Community and Youth Coalitions which led, ultimately, to some legislation creating both youth and senior citizen centers in the city.
It was great, like knowing and working with Elizabeth Gurley Flynn.It was, I believe, on my twenty-first birthday, soon after the death of my childhood dog, Jimmy Olsen, that Kara presented me with Passions of the Mind, in hardcover, as a gift while we were standing in Hodges Park near the railway crossing in downtown Park Ridge.
خواندن این کتاب را به تمام علاقمندان به روانکاوی و داستانهای روانکاوی پیشنهاد می کنم.******************************************زیگموند دریافت که از ضمیر ناآگاه مفهوم بسیار محدودی بدست داده و در قضاوت اخلاقی نسبت به آن دچار اشتباه شده.او در این رهگذر به اشتباه خود پی برد : دیگر بخشهای ضمیر ناآگاه را ندیده گرفته بود .
معرفت آنان به ذهن خیلی بیشتر از مردم عادی است.به منابعی دست می یبابند که ما هنوز در آن را به روی دانش نگشوده ایم...******************************************مارتا پرسید: دکتر یونگ سرچشمه افکار خود را چگونه زلال نگه می دارید؟یونگ با خنده گفت: به کرانه های دست نخورده زوریخ میروم و به جست و جوی چشمه های پنهان بر می آیم.
مدت زیادی بود که این کتاب رو در کتابخانه داشتم و طرفش نرفته بودم تا اینکه هوس یک رمان بلند کردم و راستش فکر نمیکردم انقدر خواندنش بهم بچسبه.
کتاب جالبی بود.
نویسنده سعی کرده بود به شیوه معمول زندگینامهها قلم نزنه و واقعن هم موفق بود.
بگذریم از اینکه بیش از حد هوای فروید رو داشت وگاهی آدمی رو درخصوص مستند بودن وقایعی که مربوط به تئوریهای فروید و حتا یونگ است به شک میانداخت، اما درکل فضای داستانی، خیلی خوب و روان از کار دراومده بود.
درخصوص ترجمه، من با ترجمه پرتو اشراق خوندم و به موازات نسخه دیگری
مدت زیادی بود که این کتاب رو در کتاب‌خانه داشتم و طرفش نرفته بودم تا اینکه هوس یک رمان بلند کردم و راستش فکر نمی‌کردم انقدر خواندنش بهم بچسبه.
کتاب جالبی بود.
بگذریم از این‌که بیش از حد هوای فروید رو داشت وگاهی آدمی رو درخصوص مستند بودن وقایعی که مربوط به تئوری‌های فروید و حتا یونگ است به شک می‌انداخت، اما درکل فضای داستانی، خیلی خوب و روان از کار دراومده بود.
مقایسه‌ی دو ترجمه کمی من رو گیج کرد چون خیلی جاها اطناب و ایجازهایی در متن بود که به دلیل عدم دسترسی به متن اصلی نمی‌شد گفت کدام ترجمه درسته.
در کل اما ترجمه خوب بود و اذیت نمی‌کرد
What can be said about this book must be absorbed from its pages. Irving Stone's eloquence is as artful as his research is thorough.In true Stone fashion the biographical-novel begins in Sigmund Freud's mid-twenties, and chronicles his life in narrative form. This is not the book for those who are deeply invested in understanding Freud's theories or psychoanalytic concepts, though they are obviously treated with some discrete insight as Freud lived and breathed his work.Freud was an artist whose canvas was the written word, his inspiration was the mind.
چند نقل قول از کتابزیگموند هر شب پشت میز خود به این فکر بود که چند نفر از کسانی که به پزشکان یا بیمارستان مراجعه می کنند بیمار ایده ای هستند نه عفونی. .ویلهلم فلیس به فروید:جرئت بدیهه گویی داشته باش! فکرت را متوجه فراسوی حدود و معلومات و حدس هایمعمولی بکن
He checked his mouth and found a spot on the right cheek from where the blood was coming.
Sigi was worried and decided to have the growth excised.
During the excision, Sigi bled profusely, but Hajek managed to remove the growth through the pool of blood – it wasn’t clear if Hajek removed all the growth though.
He asked Deutsch to look at his mouth again.
A day later Deutsch told Sigi that he had made an appointment for Sigi to see Professor Hans Pichler, a famous oral surgeon.Dr. Pichler examined Sigi’s mouth and asked if Sigi wanted to know the truth.
Sigmund Freud (1856-1939) was an enigma in his time and in many ways he has remained so to this day.
This story in more than a commemoration of a great person and his immense mind but it is also a story of love seldom equaled.
Like in Lust for Life (Vincent van Gogh) and The Agony and the Ecstasy (Michelangelo), Irving Stone has brought the life of a very remarkable person to the forefront and given it life.
I recommend this book to all lovers of history and everyone interested in a good yarn.
Life of Sigmund Freud in novelist style, his interesting work as neurology as new and fascinating subject in his times (19th century breakthrough in medicine doctrine) Then, his work with, Jean-Martin Charcot "the founder of modern neurology".
Besides, his traveling to live in France seemed to give him experience blended with his study and practice at hospital.
Further, at the time when he started his private practice he found out benefits of hypnosis, however then he started psychoanalysis on himself to heal and learn roots to the mind.
Stone almost tempts you to call his novel non-fiction as he follows the life and accomplishments of Sigmund Freud.
Freud built his theory of psychoanalysis slowly one step at a time.
Some of the things we have heard about Freudian psychology have come from those who followed him and added or detracted from his theories.
Freud was a careful scientist.
I was surprised at the misconceptions I had about Freud which came from later scientists' corruptions of his theories and practices.
Granted psychoanalysis is not perfect nor is everyone cured of their mental illnesses, but he is to be commended for his groundwork in this science.
The book begins during Freud's time at medical school, and journeys through his life as medical doctor and later founder of psychoanalysis, with personal information provided along the way.
I enjoyed this book because it really showed the development of his ideas; while many of Freuds ideas are indeed lofty, weird, and since been declared as oversimplified or "applying one theory to all problems," many other ideas are indeed still relevant today and have served as a basis for a great deal of psychological studies, therapies, and research that is still applied and accurate today.
I first fell victim to the web of Stone's literary genius about 10 years while reading The Agony and Ecstacy, his account of Michelangelo.
Passions of the Mind and the intimate portrayal of Freud's struggle as he struggles for others, wrenches me away from myself.
Irving Stone's capacity to understand the character who he is writing about in a compassionate manner, allows the reader to understand their joys and struggles.
Although Freud's psychological methods are antiquated and deemed more harmful than helpful by the modern mental health community; all of those with mental illness owe him a great depth of gratitude.
I deeply respect Freud.
Very interesting book that takes us through the life of Sigmund Freud.
We get to see how his illustrius career starts from its humble beginnings and how he weathered a lot of controversy and ridicule from his friends and collegues about his discoveries.
Also of interest is his work in coccaine.
It is very interesting, but also a bit dry, so if you require high action then this may not be the book for you, but the historians out there will enjoy becuase it also gives a nice glimpse of life in Vienna and Europe in the late 1800 and early 1900's
Although an investment of time, this book was thoroughly enjoyable. Stone doesn't disappoint in the exciting story of Sigmund Freud and of the medical field moving from pure anatomy to the mind. The anticipation the reader feels as this new science is developed is exciting. Stone develops the characters in the Freud family as well as his colleagues and adversaries in technicolour. A book worth reading.
This is yet another thoroughly researched masterpiece by Irving Stone, which brings to life the life of the great Sigmund Freud, with all it's idiosnycracies and genius in place. This is a page turner and one cannot but awe at the revelations as they surprise you on every second page. Very insightful book into the human nature, presented in a beautiful story telling format with Dr Freud as the cynosure of this magnificient biographical treatise.
Fascinating story of Sigmund Freud. His personal life and family involvements. The development and early stages of what was to become psycho-analytical thought.Some interesting elements:- His belief that love is irrational--and his desire to thus be "irrationally loved" by his wife.- His addiction to cocaine and its consequences.- The facade of attempting to objectively and dispassionately understand the human condition, while suffering from every element of the human condition.
Good but lengthy fictional biography of Sigmund "Sigi" Freud and his life and times, covering primarily 1880-1920s. Good overview of the beginnings of the psychoanalytic philosophy and what was happening in the neurology field in Austria and the world during that time.
Irving Stone writes these big, historical biographies that aren't actually biographies due to his fictionalizing a great deal of them. Here he writes about Sigmund Freud, from his early days in Vienna until fleeing his home in Austria due to the rise of the Nazi's. It is most famous for going into great detail of Freud's theories, especially the Oedipus Complex. It is written as fiction so that the author can give us Freud's thoughts and conversations, which probably didn't happen. A straight forward biography would have been better.
Love these older books, written in a time when there was not so much competition with reading.I still enjoy turning off the TV and spending quiet time with Irving Stone. This one gave a personal up-close view of Freud and his struggles to be recognized as a true doctor in a completely new field at that time. Excellent for those who have an interest in the field of psychiatry.
Great book about the Freud
Loved this.
Velkolepá románová freska nejen o životě Sigmunda Freuda. Zachycuje poutavě i atmosféru konce 19. a přelomu 19. a 20 století v císařském Rakousko-Uhersku. Zaujetí tehdejších lékařů proniknout do tajů lidského těla a mysli je fascinující, ta vášeň a touha po poznání mě naplňuje obdivem k vědcům a lékařům té doby. Spoustu nemocí dokázali přesvědčivě disagnostikovat, ale neuměli léčit, přesto nepropadali frustraci a šli dál.
Не е книга за четене на един дъх - много пластова с много информация, даваща добра картина на една епоха и една личност която прокарва в официалната науката едно знание и разбиране за ума. Книгата съдържа ценни размисли и споделен опит скрити като скъпоценни камъчета в прекалено на моменти многословие....
