https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2372763.Second_April
I first came to know Edna Saint Vincent Millay studying American social history, as the quintessential bohemian, a precursor and them participant in the Jazz Age of the 20s.
Next I came to love her poetry, and the realities she embraces.
I think Edna Saint Vincent Millay is one of the underrated American poets.
She captures wild realities and modern sensibilities in traditional forms.
Good stuff really.
from "Elegy Before Death"Oh, there will pass with your great passing Little of beauty not your own,-Only the light from common water, Only the grace from simple stone!Good stuff.
I'm a fan.
This has some real gems. I love returning to this collection occasionally, like checking in with an old friend.
I thought I’d pick nonfiction or something, but I ended up picking this, this poem book with a pink floral cover And I actually loved it Like, forget the deceptive floral cover, these poems are kind of hardcore.
These poems are almost all very sad (ironically, the most optimistic one was likely the one where the girl ran away from God in the last days and ended up all alone in a charred, barren, post-apocalyptic world - another poem with particular musical potential) and most of them are about death in some way.
This is a collection of some very disturbing and depressing poems which almost seem like a cry for help in certain parts. The only redeeming part of this book, though still depressing, was the poem about a book begging to be picked up and read and not forgotten.
Beautiful.
~~~
Much more sombre than the other works of Millay's I've read.
The poems are about death and the end of love, with many descriptions of the sea, and of nature, and classical references.
A set of five poems near the end is titled Memorial to D.C.
[Vassar 1918]; D.C. was Dorothy Coleman, a close friend and possibly a lover of Millay's who died in the flu epidemic that year, prompting Millay to write at least some of these poems.
Her publisher asked her to remove the five poems about D.C., but she refused.
From the middle period of Millay's life. I loved it, but then again I always do with her. I have a marked preference for her sonnets -- the longerpoems are equally beautiful in diction and image, but the repetitive, sing-songy pattern which made Millay famous and which I like very much is somethingof a detriment over a hundred lines, pushing the poem down into consciousness so all you actively perceive is the rhythm. But yes, I love the sonnets andMillay herself, her bravado, her cunning, her brazen sexuality, her wistful view of the human condition.
TravelTHE railroad track is miles away, And the day is loud with voices speaking,Yet there isn't a train goes by all day But I hear its whistle shrieking.All night there isn't a train goes by, Though the night is still for sleep and dreaming,But I see its cinders red on the sky, And hear its engine steaming.My heart is warm with the friends I make, And better friends I'll not be knowing,Yet there isn't a train I wouldn't take, No matter where it's going.
I'm never exactly sure how to rate a book of poetry. Obviously not all of these poems are equal, and some are even mundane, but surely any book that includes "Elegy Before Death" and "And you as well must die, beloved dust" (two of my favorite poems of grief ever) must merit five stars purely on those two poems alone.
Favourites:— Spring— The Blue-Flag in the Bog— Elegy Before Death— Passer Mortuus Est— Low-Tide— The Poet and His Book— Alms— Wraith— Burial— Mariposa— Doubt No More Than That Oberon— The Death of Autumn— Ode to Silence— Prayer to Persephone— Sonnets III, VI, VIII, IX, X
The meter changes interestingly at some points, varying the lines that recall William Blake.
Some of these I loved, and some I didn't. Towards the beginning I expected to like this more, but it is in the middle for me.
How'd she do it, and manage all that gettin' around town?
I love her humor
Lovely. This collection contains one of my favorite ESVM poems, "Lament," and a few of my favorite individual lines. The sonnets aren't the best, but the lyrics are wonderful.
