https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90840.Rootabaga_Stories
no woman seems to be involved in producing them.) and that story about the women being forced by the magic Golden Buckskin Whincher to fall in love with men she didn't like was effed up.
That life is arbitrary and we shouldn't expect good luck or happy endings?This was marked as "juvenile" but I think it would work better for adults.
Interestingly, the first stories were written for his daughter, and I had the same feeling about, for example, The Crows of Pearblossom, which Huxley wrote for a specific child: that it would not work for most kids, and perhaps was more likely to appeal to adults.
AMERICAN FAIRY TALESCarl Sandburg, winner of Pulitzer Prizes both for his biography of Abraham Lincoln and for his COMPLETE POEMS, explores another genre in ROOTABAGA STORIES, fairy tales that he wrote for his daughters.
They are American fairy tales with a rural flavor and, in fact, they have no evil characters.
They provide an opportunity for readers and listeners to delight in language and revel in truths revealed in a fanciful world.
Isn't it delightful to find an established poet or author who also wrote delightful kids' stories?
T.S. Eliot was one, of course (Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats), and had I not moved to the Midwest as a young adult, I'm not sure I'd ever have learned of these wonderful Rootabaga Stories by big-shouldered Chicago poet Carl Sandburg (1922).
Sandburg was of that generation who wished to discard European tropes like knights and castles in his kid's stories, so the "Rootabaga Country" somewhat resembles the U.S.A., but a bizarro one with blue foxes, zigzag railways, and pigs that wear bibs.
Image: Author Carl Sandburg
Carl Sandburg's ROOTABAGA STORIES remain unique in American Literature.
I regard the best ones as prose poetry and as among my own favorite Sandburg poems.My own personal favorites:The Two Skyscrapers Who Decided to Have a Child This is the most beautiful and touching of all the Rootabaga Stories.
It is also, perhaps, best captures the American spirit/experience.
One really should know of the Counties of the Circus Clowns and the Balloon Pickers.The White Horse Girl and the Blue Wind Boy Beautiful and poetic.How To Tell Corn Faries When You See 'Em Young children love this story, and it frequently makes adults cry.
Sandburg was every bit as good an author of children's stories as he was a poet or a biographer.
They are among my children's favorite stories to listen to or read out loud.
These stories are lyrical, whimsical and contain some elements of chiasmus which may be of interest to some acquainted with the form.
Great read aloud books for children and others.
I believe Sandburg wrote the stories to tell to his own children as American fairy tales set in a country more familiar to American children than the forests, mountains, moors and country side of Europe and involving more familiar sorts of home spun characters than princesses, knights, witches, wizards, fairies and dragons.
Well worth reading aloud or listening to.
Apparently Sandberg wrote these to be American fairy tales, feeling that traditional fairy tales from Europe had too many references to things we don't have here (such as royalty). In that aim, he only partially succeeded -- these are very nice childern's stories but overall they don't resonate. I think it is because they are mostly missing the conflict between good and evil that most traditional fairy tales have.
The narratives are very fluid, but nonsensical, and while the words tripped off my tongue very easily, half the time I had no idea what the point of the story was or what the author was talking about.
Our youngest hated it.
I loved the lyrical language, but I really wasn't a big fan of the nonsensical words or the repetition.
Still, we read this book in small bites, usually one short story each night with breaks in between, so it wasn't overwhelming.
Overall, I thought this was an entertaining book; frustrating at times, but a worthwhile read.
I read this several times as a child and am currently re-reading it. There's a lot of invention here, on occasions it gets contrived and perhaps a bit precious, but when Sandburg is in full flow the words are like nonsensical music- the overall effect being more important than the narrative.My childhood's favorite bit: "Hat Ashes Shovel" - when you need a Hat you make it from Hat Ashes, and to work with them you need the Hat Ashes Shovel. The term made me laugh.
Here I am in my 60s, an English major in college, and I don't recall ever having heard of the Rootabaga Stories by Carl Sandburg. As with most of my children's books I am sharing this one with a 7 1/2 year old. She is most enthusiastic about this book. Maybe I will understand why by the time we get to the end. It is clearly a book that must be read out loud. I would say it makes no sense but then there is probably a lot in life like that for a youngster.
My dad used to read this book to us when we were little-he would be so animated when he read it that we really could picture all of the crazy things in this book as if they were reality.I found it in my hope chest the other day and had almost forgotten about its existence.
If I was in charge, I would make everyone read these stories. Since I am not in charge, I can only suggest that everyone read them :-)
When the old becomes new, the familiar strange, and the ordinary extraordinary indeed, it will be time to read these stories again.
Perhaps that time has come.
They do indeed sound surpassingly odd to modern ears, since they play with a rural America long gone, a midwestern America mostly de-populated and a richness of language that rolls off the tongue like old port.
Good stuff for children still happily living in the Age of Nonsense.
I'm hoping mobile phones haven't shortened that Age to a nanosecond.
Welcome, Carl Sandburg, to the Adult-Author-Trying-His-Hand-At-Stories-For-Children Club.You join an elite group: Tolstoy, Kipling, Clemens, Huxley, Dickens, Thackeray - well, it looks like this club is open to anyone who can write.
But that is not true.
Writing for children is harder than it seems, and these stories are a case in point.
While Sandburg's language is delightful, inventive and funny, his characters are flat, enlivened only by Maud and Miska Petersham's charming illustrations.
The stories, loosely strung together, have no narrative arc, nor do they embody an memorable alternative world.
If my children were younger and still interested in having me read to them, I think this would be a good book for that.
I was not, on my own, able to get into the groove of this book, its repetition and random wackiness.
It lacks, or I was too detached from it to detect, a discernible flow of ideas, a method to its madness, as, say, The Wizard of Oz or Alice in Wonderland have.
So I suspect the best way to experience it is to read it aloud to a child, don't worry about method and let the language and imagery wash over you.
Discovered this collection of "American fairy tales" via Brain Pickings" and it was kindly loaned to be my a friend (thanks, Don!). Lovely! Brought to mind Italo Calvino's Cosmicomics, which I read earlier this year. Wish I'd had Rootabaga Stories read to me as a child.
Quirky, whimsical, imaginative...Rootabaga Stories is like an amalgamation of mad libs, Dr. Seuss and the telling of dreams.Some of the stories I wouldn't want to read to a young child with content like someone sentenced to be hung on the gallows or people dying in a train wreck, but some are particularly sweet and all are colorfully creative.
I got this book as a Goodreads giveaway. I love fairy tales and was excited to read Carl Sandburg's collection of American fairy tales. However, I found that they lacked the charm of European fairy tales. They were often without a strong narrative or satisfying conclusion. I enjoyed the stories where you got to know a character and follow their journey.
We are still working our way through the Carl Sandburg biography (it is a big book dense with detail).
Carl Sandburg's irrepressible, zany, and completely original Rootabaga Stories and More Rootabaga Stories will stand alone on children's bookshelves--when they aren't in children's hands.— I found the language very engaging, but I agreed with Maggee that on the whole the stories didn't work as stories....
(I checked out a copy of THE JUST SO STORIES to see if we liked his other stories as much as we did that one.) There doesn't seem to be any hint in the Sandburg bio that he was inspired by the Kipling tales, but it seems likely...This was book #49 on our 2016 Read-aloud list.
Rootabaga Stories is a set of fantasy stories that Carl Sandburg had written over his lifetime.
Each set of short stories is grouped together by one title.
One of my favorites is in the section Four Stories About the Deep Doom Of Dark Doorways and the title of the story is "The Wedding Procession of the Rag Doll and the Broom Handle and Who Was In It".
With all the stresses of life, why wouldn't you want to read a fun loving story about a Rag Doll and Broom getting married!!
"In the Village of Liver-and-Onions, if one boy goes to the grocery for a jug of molasses it is just like always.
And if two boys go to the grocery for a jug of molasses together it is just like always.
Carl Sandburg wrote them for his daughters because he didn't like it that there was no tradition of American fairy tales.
This is a set of stories that belongs on every "read aloud" shelf, right next to all the Dr. Suess books and the Brothers Grimm and all those Little Golden Book collections.
Sandburg's prose begs to be heard - reading it to yourself is loses the rhythm and alliteration and all those other poetry tricks that he was a master of.
The two book set I read was beautifully illustrated by Michael Hague, a perfect match of author to artist.
American poetry legend Carl Sandburg described these as "American fairy tales," written as his response to the European subject matter and iconography of classic folk and fairy tales.
It's prose poetry on the theme of children's stories, by an author known for his way with words and brawny, muscular use of American folk idiom as poetry.
Read these to a kid and they'll laugh- sometimes in the right way, sometimes just at how silly it all is (a few of these tales border on so precious they're outright stupid).
Read them in your mind and you'll appreciate Sandburg's knack for homespun poetry of yesteryear.
It’s a great read for all ages but I would mostly recommend it for children between the ages of 10 – 110 it’s a great all rounder book it has something in it for everyone my favrouite part of the book is the chapter called “the wedding procession of the ragdoll and the broom handle and who was in it.
It is basically a funny story about the wedding of the ragdoll and the broom handle it also tells us the people who are in the parade of the wedding and some of the different characters in the wedding procession will make you laugh.
This book is made up of short stories that are funny but bizarre. The notable aspects are the images in each story, the repetitive way the stories are told and the invention of words by the author.I found it stressful to read the stories, because it was kinda difficult to understand them. I was thinking, these are supposed to be children's stories, right? But then, I realized, stories like these are not meant to be analyzed. This should be enjoyed as it is, silly but imaginative, as befits a children's book.
An acquired taste, this is a collection of utterly bizarre and very imaginative short stories set in rural America. The poetic language is evocative of a prairie farmer of 1900, which is to say it is a completely different rhythm and chock full of repeated expressions. Depending on your perspective, either the prose is unreadable and the plots are mostly non-existent; or the prose is melodic and stretches the language, coloring an astounding variety of sketches. I lean toward the latter. Read aloud 8-12, read alone 10+

Interesting: a book with a lot of fantastic things happening and invented language. It's always hard to get there right balance. If I think of other nonsense stories, such as Alice in Wonderland, or Edward Lear or even Boris Vian I ponder at how tricky it is to not fall into over fantastic. Although I loved a lot of this book, sometimes I found it was became artificial and over the top. Beautiful illustrations.
Wonderful folkish talesI am ignorant about the background of this collection- whether it is entirely original or at least inspired by stories Sandburg had collected, or something? Anyway, I found myself loving these. Aimed toward younger people maybe, touching on deep and historically very important (and both) themes- hard to review briefly (sorry) but wonderful came to mind quickly...
It started out great... the boys and I were rolling with laughter, and talking about it the next day. But the next three stories were so awful that the boys couldn't take anymore. Honestly, I don't even want to continue. I'm giving it two stars because the first story was so much fun.... I'm going to give Sandburg the benefit of the doubt and assume there are a few more gems mixed in the book somewhere.
