https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15704459-firefight
This is my favorite book in the trilogy, which is rare for a middle book! The world, characters, story -- everything is so well developed.I talk more about the series overall (spoiler-free) in this video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gmRwb...
David, Tia, Prof are the ones that go and leave Abraham and Cody behind with Edmund.
I love Abraham and Cody so much.
❤Anyhoo, the crew are going to meet with some other Reckoners to try to take out Regalia.
She's another epic that wants to cause trouble since the death of you know who.
She has an epic named Obliteration who is super bad and there are some other randoms.
I forgot to say our crew meets up with Val, Mizzy and Exel (the other reckoners) and there is an underwater bunker thing and it's awesome.
My name is David Charleston. I kill people with superpowers.  AFTER GETTING YOUR GOAL... WHAT? David Charleston’s life couldn’t be better now, in this dystopian world where insane superpowered humans keep killing and destroying anything at their reach, since after years of being studying the “Epics” (how this superpowered humans are referred), learning how their powers work, but more important what their weaknesses are, to know how to kill them all, now he is a member of the secretive organizat

ON SALE!!!! Kindle deal for a limited time for $1.99 01Nov18 at AmazonReREAD before Calamity!!! with my fellow Reckoners at Buddies Books & BaublesLoved it just as much the second time and my favorite new metaphor was.....  The sun sank down like a giant golden pat of butter melting onto the corn of New Jersey. Or … wait. That abandoned city was kind of more like spinach than corn. So the sun sank down into the spinach of Jersey.  It was also theorized that if David made a list the romantic
There were times in this that:I was shockedI held my breathI laughed out loudI had theories disprovedI feared for characters and sharksI hit my head wondering where that came fromI needed a buddy to hold my hand thank you AthenaAnd I was amazed by the shear creativity and Calamity of it allIt took me on the ride that I’ve come to expect from any BS book.
“Did you just invite me on a date … to spy on a deadly Epic planning to destroy the city?” “Well, I don’t have a lot of experience with dating, but I’ve always heard you’re supposed to pick something you know the girl will enjoy.…” She smiled.
Review later, CALAMITY NOW!!My other reviews for this series: Steelheart (The Reckoners, #1)  Mitosis (The Reckoners, #1.5)  Calamity (The Reckoners, #3)
Until one big epic climatic event at the end, in the centre of the flooded city, that leaves us with a heart jerking conclusion.
“My name is David Charleston.I kill people with super powers.”David’s appropriate new name after killing the high epic Steelheart is Steelslayer.
High Epics have a reflex ability that makes them almost invincible, unless you know their weakness.
This leads to a group of homicidal, super powered maniacs with a sense of self-aggrandisement that the Reckoners must bring down.Obliteration can absorb heat from his surroundings and release it in a blast that can and has levelled cities.
If you've read Elantris, think similarly to how that book is laid out.With Firefight, I found myself distinctly less interested in the plot by comparison to its predecessor.
Perhaps a bit of middle book syndrome?The events of the story meandered a little too much for my liking.
That's not to say this book is slow, but because of how well the action-packed pace of the first book worked, I noticed where that momentum lagged a bit here.I appreciated that some of the main characters were fleshed out a bit more, and I saw growth in David as a person.
Instead of a steel wasteland, we have kind of an urban Venice (a flooded city with tops of skyscrapers poking out) with glowing graffiti and jungle growth inside of what remains of the buildings.David is still a teenage guy who's impetuous and kind of charges around with blinders on, and he still comes up with truly painful similes and metaphors (which are not as funny as the author seems to think they are, at least for me), and it all was just getting kind of old.
So when my 12 year old son absconded with the book a few days ago when I was about 40% in, I thought, whatever, I'll finish it sometime later.
Sandersonitis...I've gots it!Mind BlowingThis book Obliterated everything I thought I knew about Sanderson.
Just let Sanderson take over my life and give me amazing stories.
Then things changes and I was thinking...What are you doing Sanderson?
Why are you changing things on me...I don't want this..what is this fuckery?
But one theory that I had came to life and I NEED BOOK THREE to see WHAT HAPPENS!!!
This is the only review I can give for now..I need to go through my notes and really think about what to write.
EDIT 1/27: IT'S FINALLY HERE. Well, time to go to the library.ORIGINAL: I will now sit in my chair and wait.and wait.and wait.
Like it's mostly set in a different city, which I won't even try to spell because HELLO AUDIO.
Only Tia, Proff, and David go on this little escapade to another city.
Even when his Epic powers aren't messing with him (which is understandable) HE IS A VINDICTIVE MONSTER.
Okay, I'm good now.This is all made up for with how much I ABSOLUTELY LOVE DAVID.
She's a Reckoner from a different unite and she's like bubbly and fun and I LOVE HER.)And let's not forget how INTENSE the plot is.
It's so weird audio-booking sometimes.) Also plot twists GLALORE.
At this point I became convinced that Brandon Sanderson, while being an excellent and very productive writer, cannot write an exciting middle book of the trilogy.
After an exciting fast-moving first book people stopped doing anything even remotely exciting in the second one pondering the question, "OK.
In addition to this David is bothered by a question about the redemption of malevolent Epics.
Sure, this woman kept killing people left and right just to show her point, but she looked with such pleading eyes on David right before he stopped her.
David's bad metaphors are still present, but they can only carry the book this far before getting stale.
Slowly sinking in that I have to wait around a year before book 3 comes out.I was expecting a lot more from this, because I know Sanderson could've done better.
They were trying to do a lot of things simultaneously, resulting to confusion of the main goal of the novel.
The plot was enjoyable overall, but could've been executed better.The characters improved as compared to the first one.
Sanderson managed to impress me once again with his amazing character development.
Not that impressed, but hopefully the next one would be a lot better than this.
4.5 starsI love it! This is way better than the first book, lots of revelations, more epics and more terrible metaphors from David that I'll be quoting in my review. The plot, world, characters, okay basically everything about this book is great, its easy to read, a major fast read etc. What the hell am I writing, I have no idea how to review this book so its going to be a mess. It was as black as charcoal at midnight inside. Or, well, as black as a grape at midnight—or pretty much anything at m
This is way better than the first book, lots of revelations, more epics and more terrible metaphors from David that I'll be quoting in my review.
Sparks, the book took place in Babilar not Newcago, Babilar is ruled by a water epic, so that means the whole city is flooded, all the houses are filled with water, the residents have to live on roof tops, since its BS he potrayed this so well, that I would love to go visit.
Just like the first book this is also written in first person POV of David, so that means lots of weird metaphors.
Who doesn’t like potatoes?”
Hello Beautiful Book Blog  MOAR DAVID! ♥More action, more suspense, more awesomeness! Great sequel in the Reckoners series! “My name is David Charleston. I kill people with super powers.” Firefight felt like a complete separate story from Steelheart. David is in a new city in this book, very similar to NYC. There is a new team they are working with to try and bring down another very powerful Epic. There are still some mysteries surrounding everything they are trying to accomplish, so that aspe
David is in a new city in this book, very similar to NYC.
There are still some mysteries surrounding everything they are trying to accomplish, so that aspect is still there.We get more of David's bad metaphors, excuse me, similes, which are probably my favorite part of it all.
Who doesn’t like potatoes?”“Plenty of people.
I should have gone with a carrot.”“I mixed with ordinary people about the same way that a bucket of paint mixed with a bag of gerbils.” Same.The sun sank down like a giant golden pat of butter melting onto the corn of New Jersey.
I am pretty sure the term "nailed it" is interchangeable with "Sandersoned", for the man is a genius.So this book starts off with your typical "pulls-you-in" Sanderson prologue, moves into the main story running (yep, no crawling or baby steps here), throws in some left and right surprise hooks, and then does the Usain Bolt sprint towards the finish line that the author is known for.
So...dont trust my word for it - read this book and join the cult club.PS: I see a lot of first time Sanderson readers really loving this series.
The setting changed from NewCago to Babylon Restored, or Manhattan as we pre-Calamity people might call it.
Babylon Restored was as unique and interesting a place as NewCago.
She rules in Babylon Restored and had provoked the Reckoners by sending rogue Epics, like Mitosis, to plague them in NewCago.
She was an interesting villain and very different from Steelheart.
With Cody and Abraham left behind in NewCago David, Prof, and Tia were joined by some new team members.
We learned some cool stuff about the Epics and Calamity and the ending was shocking and exciting.
I'm looking forward to reading the conclusion to the trilogy.
Sanderson is a greatest author. Most of the people I met they don't know who Sanderson is. Sometimes I am wondering how could they don't know him?I really like 'Steelheart' and 'Firefight' but I think 'Firefight' is better than Steelheart.I love 'Firefight' Alhamdulillah!
4.5*'s and what a fabulous ending. Plenty of surprises and unexpected flips. Definitely one of the better YA series I've read.
This is what I call super duper AMAZING read!YA science fiction/dystopian is not a genre I normally read.
The story grabbed me from the beginning and I was personally happy with the ending which was such a great surprise.
I was left completely awestruck after finishing the book.David's nerdy personality still made me smile and chuckle.
Despite the fact that he's sometimes too impulsive, careless, and a bit crazy, he keeps amazing me with his bravery and intelligence for the most part.
By the way, I did very much enjoy reading this book.
He really is kind and good-hearted, it's not simply a façade or an ostentation on his part, and that may have moved me a little.
Being a horrible person, of course, my ideal flawed (not that David is Mr. Perfect or anything; he is flawed, just in other ways) and dark-ish protagonist would have slaughtered a person or two, and I still can't wrap my mind around how someone could not unleash his rage at least a little bit in a situation like that, but my not understanding was precisely what allowed me to appreciate David's characterization even more.
The new take on superheroes where power corrupts is a refreshing change from Marvel/DC, and the protagonist David is a nerdy, awkward teenager that I find hilarious, with his terrible "metaphors".She looked at me, her electricity flaring to life-growing more violent, more dangerous, lighting the room like a calzone stuffed with dynamite.I mixed with ordinary people about the same way that a bucket of paint mixed with a bag of gerbils.While I can't say I enjoyed this quite as much as the first one as I found the "I just know she's a good person because she's beautiful and I love her!" rather cheesy, I do have to cut David some slack as he is a hormone ridden teenager.That being said, this book was full of action and new superheroes, including Dawnslight, one of the most interesting so far.
Come on Sanderson, you can't end a book like that.I honestly don't know how Sanderson does it.
Firefight had a completely different tone than Steelheart, but it worked just as good, if not better.
Same main characters, completely different setting.
This book had it all.
Only thing I wish was different, is more Cody and Abraham (especially Cody, since he was one of my favorite characters in Steelheart).
you know, dead.And I can't wait to see how will Sanderson wrap the story up in Calamity, because I have no freaking clue where will the story go from here.
This SPOILER-FREE(!) review can also be found at my blog,  There were books involved... -----------------------------OH MY GOSH YOU GUYS. I've been waiting FOREVER to post this review. I read Firefight over two months ago, thanks to Mark letting me and a few other bloggers borrow his ARC (thanks again, Mark!), and omg. This book has been burning a hole in my brain ever since.First off, though -- have you read  Steelheart ? Because if you haven't, it would probably be better to start by reading m
? Because if you haven't, it would probably be better to start by reading my review of that book, rather than this one.
is a sequel, and A) We wouldn't want you to get spoiled (the synopsis above IS SPOILERY, thus the warning, but this review is spoiler-free -- unless you really don't want to know whether the main character dies at the end of 
Yeah, Firefight  is like that.Carrying straight over from the end of 
I mean, if you've read Steelheart, or any book by Brandon Sanderson, you know his endings are insane.
fix that immediately, because these two books are worth reading just for the explosive ending of 
There’s just something about his style of writing and storytelling that really appeals to me, and the truth is, the man is a font of utterly amazing and creative ideas.In 2013 Sanderson brought us Steelheart, the first book in The Reckoners series about superheroes gone bad, and I loved every moment of it.
What I really thought was great is that David’s soft spot for Megan is more than just a typical vapid “forbidden love” side plot; besides causing friction with Prof and his new Babylar teammates, David’s relationship with Firefight also serves as the catalyst for huge things to come at the end of the novel.When it comes to our main man, David is his entertaining, goofy yet charming self.
I love this series. I love Sanderson. I love David and his stupid crappy metaphors. I love that I had no idea where this book was headed either. I'll be picking up Calamity very soon! Not a whole lot to say apart from the fact that if you like any of his other works, you should pick this up.
So goodreads lost the long review I just wrote about Firefight and I'm too exasperated to write another. Here is my lazy version:David was useless and annoyingly obsessed with Megan. Manhattan was awesome, a hippy city. The ending blew my mind. I'm going to keep going with the Reckoners series eventually. There were way too many bad puns in this book though.
I am fairly new to Brandon Sanderson, having just read the first book in this series, Steelheart, not quite a month ago.
David has spent his life learning about these Epics and is very good at finding their weaknesses.
After the exciting start to the book, David leaves Newcago with Prof and Tia to help a group of Reckoners in Babylon Restored (the former New York City).
The Epics that the group are facing in Babylon Restored are frightening and everyone seems to want to take down David, or the Steelslayer as many are calling him.
I absolutely loved Firefight.I loved the world in the second part of the Reckoner series - a totally flooded city full of spraypaint and strange glowing fruits where people live on rooftops, are happy and don't question.
A lot of secrets evolving around Epics were revealed in this part, and Prof has become an even more interesting character than before because (view spoiler)[more pieces of his past were revealed and he struggled so much with his whole situation, he was totally conflicted and I am really curious to see how things with him will resolve in Calamity (hide spoiler)].I even started to like Megan a bit.
Buddy read with  Desinka  and  Gavin  4 STARS So Firefight! Indeed, the star in this book is Firefight, besides David himself:“And a figure of pure white light exploded into existence ... . It blazed like the sun itself, a feminine figure, radiant, powerful, golden hair blown back and shining like a corona.”I enjoyed the book a lot. And probably I would have rated it higher if it had the luck to not be my first read after Golden Son. Alas, it had no such luck! The start of the book is a bit slow
Indeed, the star in this book is Firefight, besides David himself:“And a figure of pure white light exploded into existence ...
. It blazed like the sun itself, a feminine figure, radiant, powerful, golden hair blown back and shining like a corona.”I enjoyed the book a lot.
The book picks up its momentum after the 50% mark and the last third is full of action and suspense following David from one crisis to the next.
My favorite parts of the book are the moments where David and Megan are together.
