https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5300924-the-rangeland-avenger
My first Max Brand book and I liked it.
I needed an easy read to read while sitting in the waiting room of a hospital and this one fit the bill quite nicely.
I had never read any Brand before, I don't really have an excuse, and I was pleasantly surprised.
There is the right amount of fighting and gunplay and this one was sprinkled with a little mystery.
I will probably read more of his books in the future since they are mostly available for free for the Kindle.
It was enjoyable, it stuck to the stereotypical characters and plot and it satisfied a need.
The beginning of this book I was really miserable.
I have ben so excited to read a Max Brand book, and it was nothing like what I would want to read.
Too much harsh words, too much anxiety.
I read to escape, I don't like it when I have to close the book to escape.Then like a sucker punch, the book opened up and showed me why it had to be like that.
I'm so glad I keep reading to see it.The ending, while happy, lacked something.
Maybe that's just Max Brand's way.
A simple ending for a simple time.
I was surprised by this "classic" cowboy story. When Riley Sinclair heads into the town of Sour Creek to seek vengeance for the death of his brother, he doesn't expect any trouble given his reputation and his skills with a gun. He is not prepared for Cold Feet, however, a man locally known for his abject lack of courage and his non existent fighting skills.
Classic old time western. Revenge, treatise on what a friend is, gun-play, loyalty, what makes a man a man, twists and turns.Lots of action.If you are a reader of westerns, and have not read this yet, I highly recommend it.*****This is in the public domain, and I obtained through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/10601
Wasn't too sure about this book at first. For me it had a slow beginning. Returned to re-read reviews which encouraged me to continue on. So glad I did. What an unexpected twist. A Good Read. I have already started another one of Max Brand books.
I was almost halfway through this book and there was an awesome twist. Then I thought "Wasn't this written in 1922?" I'd read Max Brand westerns back in the 70s and until I read a C.J. Box story awhile back, wasn't interested in visiting the genre. Sure enjoyed this one.
I really liked this book. It has some twists to it. and a few back stories.
WESTERNJim finished this book on 5-2-16 and rated it 4.7 stars.
Very good bookThis book shows that people can be respectful and caring at the same time. It is very well and and presented.
I liked it, but I’m trying to understand the characters’ complete inflexibility.
W Bra
