https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62963.Slow_Days_Fast_Company
Describing a friend of hers, "she lacked that element, raw and beckoning, that trailed like a vapor" behind her.Like her first book, Eve's Hollywood, Slow Days, Fast Company: The World, The Flesh, and L.A. is a series of seemingly biographical essays with an admixture of fiction.
This is a girl who did not believe in the viability of most relationships: "The real truth is that I've never known any man-woman thing to pan out (it may pan out to them, of course, but couples in middle age who don't speak to each other are not my idea of a good movie.)"Eve Babitz in her time and place -- Los Angeles in the 1960s and 1970s -- was as good as they come.
For the last 15 years I’ve lived in Los Angeles.
I found myself eagerly devouring her prose at the beginning and then getting a little sick to my stomach three-quarters in, but that’s my constitution, not her talent.What Babitz has done is rekindled my love for Los Angeles.
I never doubted Los Angeles' vibrancy, but it’s a megacity and as such overwhelming and just as provincial as New York City.
But there’s a poetry here, especially in its changing colors, a quality Babitz captures better than any other writer of Los Angeles I’ve read.
A classic Southern California book of fiction, or is it a memoir of sorts?
Eve Babitz is a combination of Marcel Proust and F.Scott Fitzgerald.
F Scott, because she writes about class - or the people in her world - which are artists, musicians, and they tend to be successful, yet they wander from one local (Southern California) location to the next.
I read Eve's Hollywood, and liked it very much - but I feel "Slow Days,..." is a much better book.
For those, who collect Los Angeles literature, this is pretty much of a must-have and must-read.
Just finished re-read of new edition from the New York Review of Books.
So glad this book is back in print.
****************************For anyone who loves L.A., Eve Babitz is more fun to read than any other local author about this crazy and unique environment we Angelenos occupy physically and psychologically, the reality and the mythology of it all.
For me, she is the quintessential L.A. writer - the blog below says it best: "she gets it." http://literateinla.blogspot.com/2008...Now that I am in a mood for an Eve Babitz binge, I am distressed to learn her books are all out of print.
It's easy to label Eve Babitz a "muse" of men who went on to become famous.
Even the ubiquitously-mentioned photo of her with Famous Male Artist is held up as a symbol of her muse-ish-ness.
But I am starting to suspect that calling women "muses" is a way to strip them of all of their teeth and agency: they become accessories rather than agents.And boy oh boy is Eve Babitz an agent: all teeth and light and fire.
A fun series of memoiristic nuggets that read like missives from a lost world: the vanished kingdom of 1970s L.A. swingers. Babitz is wry, detached, and pretty good with language. I'd recommend this book for short airplane rides.
Eve Babitz is famous for being photographed nude while playing chess with Duchamp.
Mainly the difference with Babitz is that she has less money and she writes with joy.
I wish I were a libertine but I tend too much toward regret and shame for that kind of lifestyle.
Babitz is free and generous about her mistakes.
She is the wizened auntie or grandma I wish I had and hope to become; experienced and worldly, wry and unfazed, understanding and forgiving.
She writes so well about awful parties and terrible decisions and drugs and too much alcohol and women and clothes and intentions.
I LOVE Eve Babitz! I love reading books set in LA in the 70s! I want a bungalow and a pool in 70s LA and possibly be a bit drunk all the time. These stories (mainly about men) are just so effortless and funny and smart, like hanging out with the coolest girl ever.
Who's better than Eve Babitz? NO. ONE.
Wonderful. I wasn't anticipating such lyrical prose, or such a good sense of her personality. A wee bit Didion, a touch of real-life Valley of the Dolls, I loved it.
"Det er mer hjemme hos meg," hvisket hun.Selvfølgelig befant vi oss hos henne kort tid efter, dog uten svensken, som hun riktignok hadde fått klare beskjeder av: Det tillattes at vi konverserte og resiterte poesi, slik vi hadde/hadde hatt for vane, men jeg kunne ikke under noen omstendighet bli over.
Han lot oss riktignok ikke være alene særlig lenge, og avbrøt meg mitt i et Trakl-dikt (en slett, engelsk oversettelse; hennes norsk var ikke god nok for Ellinor Lerviks klassiske gjendiktninger jeg setter så høyt, og mitt tysk på dette tidspunkt for snøvlete).Samboeren viste seg til min forbauselse å være svært sympatisk, til tross for sin manglende interesse for wienesisk lyrikk.
Sensuous and savvy Eve Babitz paints a picture of LA in the 1970s-80s as a series of personal vignettes in this fictional memoir.
The tales of Slow Days, Fast Company are completely believable, and it’s impossible to know where actual experiences end and fiction begins.
The author’s own character, the narrator of these personal tales, is refreshingly imperfect.
She creates a believable character and world, which makes the audiobook an ideal way to experience this memoir.
Anyone who remembers or is curious about life on the West Coast during the pre-AIDS era will like this (seems like it’s not) fictional memoir.
Los Ageless, mutta se on paperilla.
3.5. It was good, just not great. The Garden of Allah was my favorite.
[1977] (ACOB) A series of short pieces, each could be almost stand-alone but are, I think, much better taken as a whole.
They don't tell a story that way necessarily but it does form a fuller picture of her and her world.
I really liked the writing, her descriptions of things, the stories she had to tell, the way she related to other people and to her beloved L.A..
I really liked her a lot.
I think she'd be one of those really fun, slightly high-maintenance, maybe in small doses friends that everyone should have at least one of.
The stoic sparseness of Didion has always attracted me, but this wonderful series of essays about Eve's life in the world of Hollywood in the Sixties, her indulgence in the pleasures of a world dedicated to pleasures, use of drugs, sex with all comers, and conversation and experience with people that composed the glitterati of the celebrity culture of Old Hollywood and the new world of film that was unfolding makes me feel as if something beautiful has passed.
Ultimately, I'm left with Eve Babitz at 70 who partially incinerated herself with a cigar ash in the Nineties, just like the world she described in these beautiful essays was incinerated by Nixon and the grim world of the Eighties.
I'm really fond of this book, though I guess it's not a "great" book.
But anyway - it's essays about L.A. in the seventies, and I'm fascinated by anything to do with L.A., and it seems like a particularly fun, decadent period that she's writing about.
She has a light touch, and I think that she's kind of a natural writer, with a wonderful deft breezy way of summing people up, e.g., "Carl..was one of those people a business-husband would never tolerate.
He always wore white and men loathed him."
My first confession for the new year: I'm in love with Eve Babitz. I wish I'd found her sooner.The way she describes Californian sunsets; the pleasure that can be garnered from the relentless Santa Ana winds; a good meal; the particularities of a temporary lover...she brings you right into a very specific time and place. A literary time capsule, I lost myself in her writing.
I may return to this someday. Eve Babitz has a friendly, engaging voice and she seems like a lot of fun but there's just something about this that didn't click with me. It was fine, by no means bad, I just felt sort of bored, which is unexpected given the sheer quantity of drugs and alcohol and threesomes mentioned.
Babitz laces these ostensibly loose vignettes in such a way that provides a hazy sense of clarity, an understanding of sun-drenched California glamour. Her writing is sharp-witted, almost cerebral at times, but consistently self-aware, and dripping with golden aphorisms.
Anyway, I was thinking about this while I was reading this latest Babitz, because it’s got that dilettante quality common to a lot of the people I’ve been meeting lately, actresses and producers and vague Hollywood hangarounds—except that with Babitz this half-idiot quality is a sham, both because she’s actually led a fabulously interesting life, playing muse to (so far as one gathers) all of the good musicians in Southern California in the late 60’s and early 70’s, but also because she’s a really cutting, funny writer.
- People nowadays get upset at the idea of being in love with a city, especially Los Angeles.
It's very easy to stand LA, which is why it's almost inevitable that all sorts of ideas get entertained, to say nothing of lovers.- So, if you want to get invited to something not quite dinner, you could make scrambled eggs with no bread on the side but melted cheese in the scrambled eggs or something, to show God that you are serious about staying home and being virtuous.
Or maybe she was in love with him and it ate up all her charm.
Eve Babitz was born in the right place at the right time, and she was born to write.
Wild wacky wonderful writing.
Every page is chockablock with gems.
The person who wrote the jacket blurb actually read the book.
What women want, can't get and continually miss.
What men may or may not want, but then who the hell really knows?
There are fantastic characters that are as real as anybody gets in LA.
I know where "there's something about Mary" came from.
A writer could mine this book for characters, traits, quirks and fetishes.
Babitz writes the way I wish I could.
Babitz's irretrievably worldly but never jaded lens renders her subjects (the world of L.A. -- in her hands, it IS its own world, absolutely replete with its own particular, evasive heavens, hells, symbols, and mores) both hilarious and deeply, wistfully mournful, with punctiliously perceptive prose that seems to encompass everything without breaking a sweat, and a sensibility that marries Joan Didion and Oscar Wilde.
Although it was written more than 40 years ago it feels very modern. Anyone who lives in Southern California can relate to the uniquely Californian adventurous of the heroine from Palm Springs, Laguna Beach and driving the grapevine through to Bakersfield. Love that old California feel that you can go out for the night and anything was possible.
i love how in books about la the way that characters look makes other characters have deep metaphysical ruminations. I love how in books about la it's all love and hate and live and die and nothing in between. i like how in this book there's a story about how the santa ana winds make you gay -- or at least gayer.
Eve Babitz does what so many other writers fail to do, which is to write about L. A. without making you hate L. A. and everyone who professes to love L. A. Her clever prose, her keen perception, and her unapologetic honesty make for an engrossing read, and combine to offer the reader the scintillating sense of place she herself was so enchanted by.
I discovered Eve this year and first read Sex & Rage by her and instantly loved it. However, I think this one takes the cake for my favorite out of the two. I absolutely loved this book and want to read all of her books now.
As if her being Stravinsky’s granddaughter doesn’t make her cool enough, I read this book and was left at awe wishing I have this woman’s wit and intellect until I reached the last page. She, to me, is like Joan Didion. The sexy, rebellious version of her.
"I was a difficult, mean bitch, whose cat, it was rumored, bit men."Eve Babitz is mijn zomerliefde.Ik kan niet wachten om meer van haar te lezen.
