https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347413.Sleepless_Nights
Elizabeth Hardwick’s astounding ‘novel’—or should modern times brand it with the now-popular ‘creative non-fiction’ label—Sleepless Nights is a brilliant blending of fact and fiction that assesses the ‘I’ at the heart of her story as it harnesses memory into language, language that blossoms and blooms on the page like the most gorgeous of gardens.
Often paralleling her own life (‘a well-traveled and intensely insightful writer and teacher from Kentucky who married for a time with poet Robert Lowell’ may suffice as a brief biography for the uninitiated), Sleepless Nights takes dozens of brief reflections across the narrator’s timeline spent loving, losing and living to create a poetic mosaic of a life, wielding ‘fiction’ like a box of crayons to color in the black outlines of memory.
I heard the sounds of sorrow and delight,The manifold, soft chimes,That fill the haunted chambers of the Night,Like some old poet’s rhymes.~ Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Hymn to the Night  A book written in the form of life.
You know the kind of nights that opens up the reluctantly closed doors of mind and heart and let everyone and everything enter without any bias.
A breakdown of that deceptively simple question gives us intense words like artist, suffering, good, bad and truth.
So I admit that I’m not finished reading it yet because like life, this book also goes on.
This is the sort of book that I would like to write one day.
If all shorter works were of this style, a grasping at the complexity of crystalline growth set in the snow globe of memory, every shake eliciting the sort of multifarious perfection found only in the biology of closed systems, I'd have no use for the likes of War and Peace.
Some men define themselves by women although they appear to believe it is quite the opposite; to believe that it is she, rather than themselves, who is being filed away, tagged, named at last like a quivering cell under a microscope.
Trying to explain Hardwick's style, her talent, is like trying to answer the question "How long is a piece of string?" For example, here are two sentences taken from the last page of the novel:Mother, the reading glasses and the assignation near the clammy faces, so gray, of the intense church ladies.
It just so happens that I'm traveling alone right now; last night I read about thirty pages of the book in a dark hotel room.
I can't tell you what happened, or why it had the impact it did, but Hardwick's prose spoken aloud felt like an incantation from a book of the occult.
""How pleasant the rooms were, how comforting the distresses of New Yorkers, their insomnias filled with words, their patient exegesis of surprising terrors.
So, from Kentucky to New York, to Boston, to Maine, to Europe, carried along on a river of paragraphs and chapters, of blank verse, of little books translated from the Polish, large books from the Russian — all consumed in a sedentary sleeplessness.
Solitary music teachers, themselves bred on toil, leading the young by way of pain and discipline to their own honorable impasse, teaching in that way the scales of disappointment.""I am alone here in New York, no longer a we.
The torment of personal relations. Nothing new there except in the disguise, and in the escape on the wings of adjectives One of the consolations that literature provides is a sense of belonging, for those who may lack it in the real world. I've been able to reason to myself that my eccentricities are not really odd, but it is truly gratifying to find them in others. To feel social and affable toward others, even if they are dead. This sense of belonging is the kind of relationship, when carefu
In Sleepless Nights, we go through the places and people in Elizabeth's life with the same perplexing anachronous clarity, that we find in our own lives.
In this manner, Sleepless Nights captures life in its entirety, by allowing the fragmented narrative to serve as a metaphor for the unresolvable nature of life.Hardwick's unadorned prose makes it easy to connect with the people in Elizabeth's life, to turn them into people in our own lives.She lowers her eyes, this thing with him is never going to be over, never.
Sleepless Nights could be read in several ways.
Sleepless Nights unfolds in the rhythm of the loosely connected paragraphs that bubble and float, turning into vignettes of uncertain but fine texture — subtle, unpolemical, neither quite defined nor finished.
Wandering through the pages in their sore purity, sculpted by chiaroscuro lighting of Hardwick’s lyrical narrative, they’ve become a memory recorded in twilight, a certain sadness, a gasping for breath.Using stylistic freedom of a literary essay, the author oscillates between the fictive and the actual.
These self-contained miniatures braid their own pattern — scattered over decades and places, delicately formed into a meditative mosaic, they resemble hazy phantasmagoria of sleepless nights, gathering agreeable lies and self-invented truths in this slow-paced chronicle of the present and past.
Some really strong moments but overall it felt too privileged, a sense that grew and grew until it overwhelmed my appreciation of the strong, smart sentences, like they were too tasteful.
As with Speedboat, which I read before this and very much preferred, too much of a good thing became -- by about three-fourths through -- not enough for me.
A great few pages about Billie Holiday but that section seemed like the climax of my interest and the rest went downhill.
Glad I read it -- a good book to read with brain scattered by mid-July heat -- but I'm not sure I'll remember it by the fall.
There were many performers at the Hotel Schuyler, but they gave no hint of suffering from the failure of their art.
”- Elizabeth Hardwick, Sleepless NightsSleepless Nights is one of those -far too rare- works of literature which unmercifully teases its audience with its non-normative, plotless, collage-like, amorphous storytelling.
As a result, it does not constitute a novel (Ceci n'est pas un roman wouldn't look half bad as a blurb) as such, but rather a playful mélange of literary genres, which at times makes for a slightly confusing reading experience (while not detracting from it).
It's more like reading random pages torn from a journal or sitting at a kitchen table flipping through pages of a friend's scrapbook in no particular order.
Part fiction and part autobiography (one guesses at the percentages), these are the memories of an aging women in a nursing home told through story, letters, quotes, literary passages and dreams of missed opportunities.
Tales of travel, failed relationships, communists, cleaning ladies, lovers, befriending Billie Holiday -- "…she was glittering, somber, and solitary, although of course never alone, never" -- and New York.All told in the most beautiful lyrical voice.
De mis favoritos en lo que llevamos de año <3
So what happened to Hardwick and why have so few read her brilliant hard essays, her insightful bio of Melville, and above all, this hybrid memoir/novel/lyrical essays collection?
Perhaps because Hardwick's life overshadowed her work (that is, her role as troubled wife to troubled poet overshadowed both her life and work), or because she was not terribly prolific, esp not in book form, or because her topics were never flashy or head on.
This book blows me away and if Hardwick had written nothing else, this book alone would suffice.
Let me argue that Sleepless Nights's plot is the working of association, categorization more than anything, a kind of chapter by chapter series of themes.
The fact that chapter 5 opened almost exactly at the novel's center made me pause to consider that Hardwick was writing a considerably more controlled text than most of us readers have realized, that it's simply a kind of control alien to the traditional a to b of a plot.
A tad bit dense but well worth it. There isn’t really a story line but an older woman reflects on her life. Each “story” is in a way a reflection or meditation. You witness events and meet people who shaped her life. I love this kind of thing, it was well worth the read.
A tad bit dense but well worth it. There isn’t really a story line but an older woman reflects on her life. Each “story” is in a way a reflection or meditation. You witness events and meet people who shaped her life. I️ love this kind of thing, it was well worth the read.

This felt like a series of articles for the New Yorker magazine, that might be more appreciated by those more intellectual than me. Disjointed and hard to follow. I was able to isolate a few brilliant passages, but not worth the trouble.
"Sleepless Nights" is a highly readable potpourri, deliciously aimless, like a pink-purple zinnia whose multitude of petals ray out in every direction at once: well, every direction except straight down toward the earth (that's where the stem is) or straight up at the sun (that's where the anthers go, bristling and manly).
Hardwick uses language more beautifully than many poets do; her forceful intelligence is apparent in her many delightful turns of phrase, little curlicues that pop up on every page like kittens' tongues.
A life in fragments, a masterclass of concision. This speaks to the artifice of unbroken narrative that convention sees us superimposing on ourselves in the light of day, and how that quality of time passing can become undone in the solitary night.
While your perception of “Daniel” may be built upon this asinine review and some images of chairs, "Elizabeth Hardwick" is built upon memories of an entire life, images of streets from bedroom windows, various living spaces, drunk doctors, Billie Holiday, all fragmented, filtered through memory and the accumulation of sleepless nights, forming a patchwork quilt of moments rather than any cohesive storyline.
Or rather, they all mean everything equally.It’s so hard to tell you the important things, reader, when they are all important to me.
May as well tell you the things as they come to me.
A serious, melancholy book about memories, of people and places passing through the night. Sad lives. Excellent language, at times a little on the cerebral side, sounding almost like a series of prose poems, or personal essays.
And vignettes that stick with me days after I've read them.
But as amazing as aspects of this book can be, it is also an endless succession of vignettes with little to nothing to tie everything together.
And although I love experimentation, it often felt like I was tied to a fantastic story teller who also had extreme ADD.
Some sketches were amazing, but many were not.
If I had read this as a book of poetry, or as a collection of aphoristic stories, it might have rated higher, but instead I wanted a contained whole, which this book is not.
A plotless experimental work of perfectly rendered scenes that are sharply focused and precise. Truly, an inspiring literary feat!
Having grown up in Kentucky, eighth in a Protestant family of eleven children, Elizabeth Hardwick knew she wanted to be a New York Jewish intellectual.
And so she was, except for the Jewish part.
Critic, essayist, novelist, co-founder of The New York Review of Books, she lived in New York for most of her life with interludes in Europe and Boston during her long, tumultuous marriage to poet Robert Lowell.Sleepless Nights, published in 1979 when she was 63, is both a novel and a meditation on memory.
Husband and marriage do not figure in this slim book.
The missing link between Sebald and the Cheever diaries - beautifully observed vignettes (some of the descriptions are extraordinary) that ebb and flow into something of a memoirish novel, complete with subplots. I would add in David Markson as well. Hardwick is very well-read, and the book brims with quotes and readerly observations. Some sections are weaker than others and I ran out of steam a bit toward the end, but there is too much strength here (especially in Part 5 with Alex) to ignore. Deceptively slow for such a short book.
This book is a wonderful combination of fiction and memoir, letters and essays, portraits and dreams. Not to be missed!
Instead Sleepless Nights reads like a random series of memories, wonderings and stories.
“Elizabeth’s stories of friends and lovers, of people her parents knew of college days and the changing face of New York city, is like taking a detailed look at someone’s photograph album and private diaries.
Elizabeth comes across as a woman I want to spend time with, curled up on brightly patterned scatter cushions in a New York apartment building - listening again to the stories of Billie Holiday, communists and cleaning ladies, to an accompaniment of subway trains and jazz.
The main theme of the book is relationships and the terrible co-dependency or pretences towards self-sufficiency the central characters, and by extension the author suggests, most people adopt whilst failing mostly to get their true needs met.
Anyone coming to this book hoping for an expose of life with Robert Lowell - who only makes cameo appearances by lending his characteristics or amorous indecisiveness to certain male characters, of one of whom she writes, with scathing brilliance: "His hunger for experience was not as deep as it was wide" - will be disappointed, & that's a testament to Hardwick's endurance, self-respect and talent, as well as clearly marking this work as fiction.
Cuenta como quiere, el pasado, la mujeres que la rodearon, algunos hombres, un amante en particular del que se acuerda cosas sueltas que le decía en la cama, y un hotel lleno de artistas, Billie Holiday sola en un cuarto rodeada de perros: "Qué aparición más traicionera, aquella, aquella locura, porque nunca hubo mujer menos madre y menos esposa, menos apegada a nada; costaba imaginar, incluso, que pudiera ser hija.
Ya quedaba poco que recordara la lastimosa dulzura de una jovencita.
No. Era rutilante, lúgubre y solitaria, aunque, por supuesto, nunca estaba sola, nunca.
Majestuosa, siniestra, decidida" Una narradora enormemente lúcida.
A difficult book to describe – part fiction, part memoir, Sleepless Nights blurs the boundaries between the real and the imaginary.
In terms of style and form, the closest comparison I can think of is Renata Adler’s Speedboat, a wonderful book that blew me away with its shimmering vignettes and episodes from the narrator’s life.Like Speedboat, Hardwick’s book doesn’t follow a conventional narrative arc; nor does it possess a noticeable plot as such.
Instead, we are presented with a series of fragments from a woman’s life, the recollections of journeys undertaken, of people encountered and situations observed.
This book is beautifully written.
The author has a way with words.
The chapters consist of descriptions of people she's known and places where she has lived or visited.
There is no story, no plot, no connection between any of the people or situations.
There is no one in the book who I would want to know.
The literary language is the whole thing.
She's just playing with language.
If you like that kind of thing, you might like this book.
Well, some literary folks might consider that a brilliant reason to publish, but not me...
