https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29291.Make_Way_for_Ducklings
5***** and a ❤Mr and Mrs Mallard search for a good home in which to raise their brood.
It must be safe from foxes and turtles, have water to swim in, and a good source of food.
Oh, how I loved the story of how Policeman Michael and the other people ensured the safety of Mrs Mallard and her brood: Jack, Kack, Lack, Mack, Nack, Ouack, Pack and Quack, as they crossed busy streets, waddled past coffee shops and book stores, and finally made their way to the Public Gardens, for a reunion with Mr Mallard who waited patiently on the little island in the pond.
3.5 Stars I adore the art in this book... and it’s just so stinking cute? Small fry loved counting the ducklings and reading off their names. But the ending also feels really abrupt after soooo much build up?
This is probably one of my all time favorites. I live near Boston and am very familiar with the Public Garden. They have installed "Make Way for Duckling" sculptures there which any visitor to Boston might enjoy seeing.
[image error]“Make Way for Ducklings” is a Caldecott Medal award-winning book by Robert McCloskey and it is about how a family of ducks tries to live in the city of Boston.
Robert McCloskey’s illustrations are extremely beautiful as he makes the ducks and ducklings look realistic and beautiful and the images are mainly in black and white colors, indicating the old fashioned feel of this book.“Make Way for Ducklings” is a fantastic book about the trials of moving to a new place that many children and parents can easily relate to and will be a family favorite for many years.
Landing on an island in a lake in the middle of a city park, The Mallards delight in the free peanuts city slickers toss at them and exclaim that this right here is the good life (note: ducks should not eat peanuts).
Once safely in the Public Garden, Mr. Mallard greets them with a subtle, "What took you so long?" while all the baby ducklings are wide-eyed and sallow-faced, wishing they could have spent the day hunting for beetles instead of nearly loosing Nack at the intersection of Churchill and Main.
In the end, The Mallards decide to stay at the Public Gardens, because they liked eating peanuts all day, and the bicycles aren't really THAT bad, right?
I'm a big fan of McCloskey ever since I read the Homer books when I was a kid.
Nice to see some diversity in the language arts lesson plans.
In the meantime, I'm going through and reading all the books to the kids from the Reading lesson plans, many of which seem to have Caldecott awards.
This one had an award too, and it was easy to see why from the old-fashioned pictures that had so much detail.
My son and I loved reading this one together over breakfast.
Another book I enjoyed in my childhood. My daughter even found me a t-shirt of this from one of those literary catalogs. :)
This kind of book is comfort food to me.
I read it many times as a child, and then read it countless times to my own children.
The illustrations are soft and gentle, without need for a lot of color to convey the story.
I love the ducks and the names of the babies.
I loved how the policemen stopped the traffic for the ducks.
I highly suspect someday I'll find some other children to read it to (perhaps grandchildren?) and I'll take as much delight in this book then, as I do now.
The first duckling was named Jack. He was my favorite.
One of the best. Classics are classics for a reason.
Everyone of all ages just has to read this.
Everyone who can find some little kids to read it to must stop what they're doing and read this to them at ONCE.This was in a pile of our old books my mom took out when she was trying to find titles to use at a literacy program she volunteers with.
It's one of those nice ones to revisit and appreciate again as an adult -- just to discover that what you liked about it when you were little is much the same as what you love now.
I went to the same public garden looking for the exact location of Robin Williams and Matt Damon scene in Good Will Hunting when they are sitting on a bench.
I immediately felt like I was in the park again because the illustrations of the book looks exactly like the real thing and could not believe how much effort that must have taken for a children's book to look real.I enjoyed the story and it's great for kids the only issue I had was Mr. Millard simply left his wife all the heavy duty work of being a parent.
Other than that I really enjoyed the story and wished I could have read it sooner.
That mother duck and those ducklings just keep waddling along the busy Boston streets, heedless of the danger that surrounds them, and trusting that someone will intervene to make sure they make their way through the traffic safely.
Even after all these years and all these readings of the book, I still shudder to think what might have happened if the kind-hearted policeman Michael hadn't stopped traffic so the ducks could reach the Charles River where Mr. Mallard and their new island home awaited.
The story is deeply engaging, and the accompanying illustrations add to the comic appeal as dismayed passengers and drivers are made to halt in their busy lives and make way for these ducklings.
I was not a big fan of this old book. The pictures are all in color and the story didn't seem to sparkle. It's about a duck family trying to find a place to live in Boston. The neat thing about the book is you can learn some of the famous places in Boston where the ducks tried to live. There was a helpful policeman watching out for them. This won some awards and the story seems to have aged.
After a week has passed, the family sets off to meet up with Mr. Mallard in the Public Garden.The little family runs into heavy traffic, but luckily Michael, their old policemen friend, is there to help them on their way.
Eventually, they get to the Public Garden, find Mr. Mallard and decide that the park is a jolly spot to live in and raise Jack, Kack, Lack, Mack, Nack, Quack, Pack, and Quack.Make Way for Ducklings was written in 1941, and after 76 years, it is still a loved by kids and adults alike.
Wonderful illustrations by a master - lovely story.
Mr. and Mrs. mallard are a couple of ducks looking for a place to raise kids.
At first they land in a public park in Boston, but this proves to be too dangerous because of kid's racing by on bikes.
A fine time to go exploring!"No, she says" "Don't you worry, I know all about bringing up children."So he goes off and ma Mallard does what she's told, which is basically 'I'm off, meet me behind the enemy frontline.' Because to get to the public park they have to waddle through the raging traffic filled center of Boston.
Make Way for Ducklings is a wonderful story about two ducks that are trying to find a new home to hatch their eggs.
The wife duck lays her eggs and the ducks raise their ducklings when they hatch but now they are in search of a new home.
The illustrations in this book are also very wonderful and basic with not much color but very clear.
I think the great attribute of this book is that illustrations do not need to be incredibly detailed in order to show a lot of detail.
This book I thought had a simple story of two ducks finding a new home to raise their new family of ducklings.
This book written in the 1940's is quite dated when compared to modern books, however the sense of community and protection given by some humans towards the ducks is quite heart felt.The book is quite large in size A4, and the background on every page is cream in colour.
However, the illustrations do provide a sense of happiness with the use of curved lines, with rounded looking cars even the street corners had rounded edges.
Added 7/29/15. First published in 1941.SEE SAMPLE AT: https://play.google.com/books/reader?...BELOW IS FROM FUNTRIVIA:==================================This prize-winning book by Robert McCloskey won the Caldecott Medal in 1942. The popularity of McCloskey's book led to the building of a bronze statue in Boston's Public Garden.McCloskey became inspired to write this book while he was feeding the ducks in the Public Garden. To better illustrate the story, the author brought six ducklings to live in his studio.Incidentally, former U.S. First Lady, Barbara Bush, gifted former Soviet First Lady, Raisa Gorbachev, with a replica of the Boston statue.================================PIC OF BOSTON STATUE: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Make_Wa...
They fly all around the woods, the pond, Beacon Hill, the State House, Louisburg Square, and finally, finding a nice cozy spot to hatch the eggs, the Public Garden.
They make friends with the police man, Michael.I think the book would be my choice to share with other children because it teaches the concept of making the right choice, such as you wouldn't want to live in a place that's dirty and smoky for example around Beacon Hill and The State House.
Also, they make friends with the Policeman, Michael, and other characters in the book.
In this children's classic, Robert McCloskey presents a case study in why some parents shouldn't be allowed to name their own children.
Master and Lady Mallard, in a desperate attempt to look creative, saddle their offspring with some of the most hideous appellations imaginable.
You may think it's annoying when parents give all their children the same initial—and you'd be right, of course—but that has nothing on the Mallards' broadside assault on good taste.
I sure hope that poor Kack and Ouack, assuming they survive the humiliation, have the sense to change their names the moment they're legally able to do so.
I recently read this to my daughter, and I was really looking forward to it. I spent three years in Boston, so I wanted to share that with her, and I was excited to revisit what I remembered as an engaging story. Unfortunately, this book has lost its spark. It's too rooted in a decades-old mentality, which finds humor in depictions of the lower class, and couches females as picky and hard-to-please. My daughter did still enjoy the infectious names of the ducklings, but I will probably encourage her to select something else next time.
It's odd what strikes you many years later:"Honey, I'm off to explore 'up the river', and will be gone for about a week. Take care of our eight extremely young children. I'll meet you in that place that's on the other side of the dangerous traffic, even though there's absolutely no reason to. Have fun, and don't poison the kids' minds against me while I'm gone!"Fortunately Mrs. Mallard has the support of apparently the entire Boston police force; getting a restraining order against her deadbeat husband will probably be fairly easy.
An adorable story in which Mr. and Mrs. Mallard try to find a suitable place to winter and raise their little ducklings.
I loved every page that had those little ducklings walking in a line behind Mrs. Mallard.
And their names!
Jack, Kack, Lack, Mack, Nack, Ouack, Pack and Quack!!
The policemen who help them cross busy roads are adorable too.
A wonderful book.
It's sure to be one of my favorite Caldecott medal books, and it's on my son's wish-list to buy.
(He loved it, we've read it a couple times already and I've told him the story sans book too).
This will be of most interest to kids who have some familiarity with Boston.The ducks apparently plan to survive on peanuts the people provide. Hmm. That's not the best message for living with wildlife. Human food is not recommended for animals. (Killjoy, I know.)I like some of his other books better than this one.
A classic children's book where the author is also the illustrator. The lack of color in the illustrations does not take away from the simple beauty of this book.Get ready to journey with the Mallard Family as they search for a place to call home.
This Caldecott winning picture book from 1941 has withstood the test of time. Still a great book to read to my children.
The very first.
Apparently this book is a children's classic that I never heard of before it was donated to my little free library. it is quite cute.
