https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/747061.Book_of_Mormon_Doctrine_and_Covenants_Pearl_of_Great_Price
Many authors had contributed directly or were quoted in the final abridgment of ancient records compiled by the prophet, historian, and military leader Mormon near 400 A.D. Mormon recorded these writings on golden plates and they were translated by Joseph Smith Jr. There is an introduction by Joseph Smith explaining how the plates came into his posession so he could translate them, but that is the only part of the Book of Mormon that is truly written by him.Although I was taught from this book and the Bible my whole life, I didn't read this by myself until I was 27 years old.
The LDS (Mormon) church does everything it can to instill the idea that if a person reads this book, prays with “real intent” and “faith in Christ” (and other loaded phrases) that she/he will receive a burning euphoric feeling.
However, experiences like this are not exclusive to any one religion, and it is an astounding claim that powerful euphoric experiences are exclusive to religion at all.If you are looking for meaning in life, begin by understanding what genuine science and open-mindedness are ( http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T69TOu...
). You may just find that the natural universe has more meaning than you had previously expected ( http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jyjNXd...
Even as a young Mormon girl growing up, I was confused about the scriptures taken out of Isaiah, but went along with the story that Joseph Smith received direct inspiration from God and it happened to be the exact same wording as the King James version, which is what Mormons read as part of the standard works.
The Pearl of Great Price has been greatly de-emphasized in the church because it's been pretty much debunked as scripture when the Egyptian papyrus that Joseph Smith "translated" had been found and turns out to be Egyptian burial instructions.
I was baptized a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints when I was 8-years-old.
I read the Book of Mormon for the first time all the way through when I was a young teenager.
Since then, I have read this book many times.
It is another testament of Jesus Christ.
I love reading from its pages.
One of my favorite parts of The Book of Mormon is in 3rd Nephi when Jesus Christ visits the Nephites after His resurrection.
His love and His teachings are beautiful and they have touched my heart.
It is my most cherished and loved book of all time.
I didn't care how I lived or even if I lied, cheated, or acted immorally; however, upon reading the Book of Mormon, and learning of The Saviour Jesus Christ, I began to feel a responsibility to both Him and His Father.
I know now why the human condition is the way it is, I know what I can do to be happy, and I know how I can please the One who created me.I can promise that it will do that for all those who read it with the intent to learn and grow.
It truly testifies of Jesus Christ, and is a physical evidence of his activity among mankind today, and God's concern for His children's eternal welfare.
The book of Isaiah is plagiarized, right down to the italics in the King James.
For an author that was transcribing truth, this books data has no foundation.
For those who seek truth, this one blares out its error.
So many errors, so many things are just flat inaccurate and not possible for the date it was supposed to have happened.For me, it is like watching a lunar landing on a television during the era of the Revolutionary War, well except that was only 200 years apart.
This books errors date over millenniums, not centennials.
2000 years ago.Truth has a way of standing.
PURE DOCTRINE!
I couldn't have all those others on here and not the best of the best of the best, right????I've read the entire Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price (many a time) and I LOVE THEM ALL!!!
(Wow...lots of detail about the tabernacle.) But the Bible has the best lessons to be learned and many stories that are truly inspiring and wonderful that we never or rarely ever hear about.
These are books inspired by God and through reading, praying and actually living what they teach, it literally changes a person.
I know these books are true and come from God Himself.
I mean no religious disrespect by rating this book so low but do so only from a literary standpoint.
Honestly, how many times do you need to say "and it came to pass."?
Here's one of my favorites:And it came to pass that when Lehonti received the message he durst not go down to the foot of the mount.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah sent again the second time, desiring him to come down.
And it came to pass that Lehonti would not; and he sent again the third time.Alma 47:11I found the book unreadable and completely devoid of history, philosophy and a coherent theology.
best book on this planet!!!
I rated this two stars only because I gave it an extra star for its importance in the lives of millions.A few years ago two Mormon missionaries stopped by my house to talk about a new testament of Jesus Christ, at the time I was too busy to have any real discussion with them, but they left me the book of Mormon, they asked me pray to the holy spirit to reveal himself and the truth to me while reading the BoM.
This book has taught me and teaches me of the things that will happen to a people who will not listen to the Lord. It is one book that lifts me up and helps me be a better person. It gives me insite as to how life can be if I will do what I know to be right and true. It takes me from darkness into light about the true nature of God.
جوزف اسمیت، در قرن 18 ادعا کرد که پس از ملاقاتهای پیدرپی با فرشتهای که بر او نازل میشد، به منبع کتیبههای باستانی دستیافته که روشنگر افقهای مسیحیتی راستین و متفاوت با تعلیم کلیسای جهانی مسیح است. با انتشار این کتاب و موعظهی اسمیت و پیروان اندکش، کلیسای عیسی مسیح قدیسان آخرالزمان تاسیس شد و این چنین مورمونیسم شکل گرفت. اسمیت ادعا میکند تاریخ حقیقی این کتیبهها به قرنها پیش از میلاد بازمیگردد و مطالب این کتاب هرچند تا حدی دستخوش تغییر و تاویل حین انتقال و نگارش شده، اما نسبت به عهدین بهرهی بیشتری از
با انتشار این کتاب و موعظه‌ی اسمیت و پیروان اندکش، کلیسای عیسی مسیح قدیسان آخرالزمان تاسیس شد و این چنین مورمونیسم شکل گرفت.
اسمیت ادعا می‌کند تاریخ حقیقی این کتیبه‌ها به قرن‌ها پیش از میلاد بازمی‌گردد و مطالب این کتاب هرچند تا حدی دستخوش تغییر و تاویل حین انتقال و نگارش شده، اما نسبت به عهدین بهره‌ی بیشتری از حقیقت برده استکتاب مورمون تاریخ قومی به نام نافیان را که زیرمجموعه بنی‌اسرائیل هستند روایت می‌کند.
در مورد محتوا هم باید بگویم که در قسمت‌های قابل توجهی از کتاب، عینا از عهدین کپی‌برداری شده، مثلا تقریبا تمام باب‌های اشعیا در کتاب دوم نافی آیه به آیه نقل شده.
Reading it this time confirmed my testimony that it is in fact what it purports to be: a collection of revelations from God to Joseph Smith (and a few other men).I finished the Pearl of Great Price on Thursday, September 10, 2009.
I think my children enjoyed it, although I don't think they liked that there weren't very many "stories." We are now going to read the Pearl of Great Price and then read the Book of Mormon again.
We've started reading the New Testament again.I finished reading the Pearl of Great Price on Sunday, September 9, 2018.
I had a really good friend die last month, and I don't know how I would be doing right now if I didn't have the gospel in my life.
No matter what anyone says, I will never be dissuaded from my faith in these scriptures, my church, and God.I'm now a little older, and have had the chance to read the Book of Mormon several more times, with family, as my personal study, and now in seminary this year!
My faith has continued to grow as I have learned more and really taken the time each day to study the scriptures.
The Book of MormonThe story of a civilization from beginning to end and the interactions between the people and God. There is a large section in the middle describing warfare strategies.
Full of little gems of truth.
A book that requires thinking.The Doctrine and CovenantsThe compiled revelations Joseph Smith received from God. Many start with something like "Thus saith the Lord." Can be read out of order.
Full of gems of truth.
Ends around the time of his assassination.The Pearl of Great PriceThe writings of Moses and Abraham translated from an Egyptian papyrus.
The books begin and end abruptly.
This book more than any other has built my relationship with God the Father and his son Jesus Christ.
It has given me peace in times of difficulty and testifies to me that God loves his children here on earth.
He sent his Son, Jesus Christ, to atone for my sins and open up the way to eternal life.
This book has taught me to turn to God in prayer when I need his help, understanding, or peace.
It has taught me to follow the living prophet and to ask for a personal witness that he is a prophet of God. Because of The Book of Mormon I know that God lives, that Jesus is the Christ and Savior of the world.
4 And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name of Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, he will manifest the truth of it unto you, by the power of the Holy Ghost.
Modern revelation rocks!Section 122:( When times get tough...these are the verses I read.)5 If thou art called to pass through tribulation; if thou art in perils among false brethren; if thou art in perils among robbers; if thou art in perils by land or by sea;  6 If thou art aaccused with all manner of false accusations; if thine enemies fall upon thee; if they tear thee from the society of thy father and mother and brethren and sisters; and if with a drawn sword thine enemies tear thee from the bosom of thy wife, and of thine offspring, and thine elder son, although but six years of age, shall cling to thy garments, and shall say, My father, my father, why can’t you stay with us?
The Book of Mormon claims to be an affirmation of the Bible and Christian doctrine, but with a closer read, I think the core teachings of who God is and how man experiences salvation is quite different.
Whereas the Bible is focused on how eternal life cannot be earned through obedience, but by realizing our personal failure to obey God's law, and fully depending on what Jesus did on the cross for mankind.
Also the doctrine of who God is and where he came from is surprisingly different in the LDS teachings than orthodox Christian teaching.
This year I am studying The Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants.
The Book of Mormon is an amazing book of scripture containing an account of the ancient inhabitants of the American continent.
This book also contains a record of the Savior's visit to the American continent.
My church rotates a study of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, New Testament, and Old Testament each year (so that each is studied in-depth every 4 years on rotation).
This year we are studying the Doctrine and Covenants.
By far the very BEST!
This book is the most correct book on the earth today. The translator, the Prophet Joseph Smith Jr. was a prophet of God, and he translated this book through the gift and power of God. If this book is read with an open heart, the Spirit will touch your soul, and help you gain a powerful testimony of Jesus Christ.
There's never been a book better than this one!
This is the best book ever written!! I learn something new every time I reread this book, but it always affirms my testimony of Jesus Christ. He lives!
I mean, even if it weren't so obviously inspired by so many different authors, it would still be an awesome book!Today we were studying in Alma where Captain Moroni and the Nephites are fighting against Zarahemnah and the Lamanites....
What's more exiting and encouraging than a war where the underdog prevails because of their obedience and faith in God?
But, the Nephites had loved the Lamanites and were always trying to help them to know Our Savior.
A definite MUST read, then pray to God, see if it's true!
This book has the power to bring souls closer to Christ.
Because of the nature of the books, there is no scale that is able to rate the qualities or the power of the words written therein.
Read it and you will have a greater knowledge of the Gospel of Christ.Don't take my word for it, read it and pray about it to have the Lord tell you it is correct.
If you don't believe in your ability to gain personal revelation, then compare it to the Bible.
There are very convenient references at the bottom of the pages to the Bible.
This is the book that is at the top of my list of books, because it has had the greatest impact on my life.
It's a book unlike any other -- not just a story, but a book with so much meaning.
One of the things that is amazing about scripture is that it takes on new significance depending on my needs and the circumstances in my life.The most significant aspect of the book is that it has helped me come to know and understand more about the mission of the Savior, Jesus Christ, and has helped me draw closer to Him and to my Father in Heaven.Yes, indeed, I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone!
It isn't just nice reading; it's doctrine that needs to be understood well enough to bring others to an understanding.The Doctrine and Covenants is a manual of revelations from God given to Joseph Smith on how to build His church, with very few complete stories in it.
But the doctrines bring to light the same doctrines found in the Bible and Book of Mormon, adding details and insights that ultimately help us understand God, and his ways, that much better.
And isn't that what we want: to understand better?
Another fantastic book in the canon of scriptures that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints uses daily. I'll admit I haven't read through the entire book in a few years. The last time I read it was during my ride to and from work each day on the train. I've read many books that way, and now that I'm riding the bus and have an even longer commute I foresee reading even more books. Anyway, this book was great and using the LDS Church's official Institute Study Guide while reading this was very helpful.
