https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187650.Primal_Fear
Like all of Diehl's books, Primal Fear is outstanding.
First class was almost empty and I was the only one awake when the steward knelt down beside my seat and whispered, "I noticed the book you are reading.
It's obvious you are either a psychologist or a psychiatrist." Before I could correct him, he blurted out, "I have a primal fear of flying." I listened to his entire story, carefully closing the book and sliding it under my blanket so he wouldn't discover that it was a novel.
I slipped the book into my brief case and got back to reading it at the hotel.
A worthy read for the Goodreads Mystery and Thriller Week!!This is my first book by the author, and I must say I did enjoy reading the novel: a psychological thriller-cum- courtroom drama.In Chicago, an archbishop – called the “Saint of Lakeview Drive” has been brutalized and a young man, Aaron Stampler, has been arrested from the scene of crime with the murder weapon.
The evidence points to Aaron’s guilt, and he is facing capital punishment.Now we are introduced to Martin aka Marty Vail, ex-army lawyer turned defense counselor– an irreverent and a bit shabby man.
Instead he is helped by a pretty great team– a highly competent secretary, an ex-boxer turned law student to help with the investigation and an ex-judge as a mentor.
I saw the movie long before getting the book, so the ending wasn’t a huge surprise, and I found the book to be quite interesting with intriguing characters:-Vail, the successful lawyer dragged into a case he didn't want because the judge wants to hand him a sure loss as punishment for Vails successful suit against the city ;- Mollie, the young psychologist who wanted to be a biologist until her brother returned from Vietnam slowly entering a state of catatonia;-Rebecca, Stempler’s former teacher who taught in a one-room schoolhouse and saw him as one of her few success stories, the boy who didn’t go down in the hole; -the brilliant prosecutor who didn’t want the case either but was dragged into it as her last case before she left the D.A.’s office;-Goodman, the sensitive P.I. working on his law degree, a former boxer whose career disintegrated when he smashed his hand;and Aaron Stempler, genius IQ who could read Latin and devoured every book he could get his hands on who is accused of the brutal murder of Catholic Archbishop Rushmon who had befriended him.
It turned out that William Diehl did a great job at mixing psychological suspense with legal coutroom drama.Aaaron Stampler is accused of murdering Archbishop Richard Rushman - in fact police find him near the scene of the murder - hiding in a confessional, soaked with blood and gripping the murder weapon.
As Vail races against time to form a defense for his client, the novel drastically increases the level of suspense which literally explodes in the final coutroom scene, and - what's incredible - offers a conclusion that imprints itself in the mind of the reader and makes him think about what he has just read.A classic novel in the genre, Primal Fear offers much more than the rest of the lot and is a great fun to read.
I was relaxing after a day at work with the last 50 pages, enjoying the way Diehl was wrapping up the story.
I got to the last few pages and was so completely surprised by the twist Diehl put into the story that I sat bolt upright, said basically what the heck (and no, not I didn't actually use that mild of an explicative) and instantly turned back those pages to make sure I wasn't hallucinating what I had just read.
I don't get a lot of what the heck just happened moments when I read books these days, but this one supplied one of the best I've ever had.
WOW!
Very intriguing!'Primal Fear' has all the elements I always craved for in a book.
I can say that by the way it gripped me altogether.This books, surely deserved a 4 star rating until the last 10-12 pages just made it so damn interesting.And this is one of the books, where the last line reveals the suspense.
So I suggest, not to, even accidentally read the last line.
And if you do, be naive, like me.
I read the last line, and thankfully it didn't spoil the brunch for me.I truly admire the author of this book for presenting such an awesome page-turner.
A masterfully crafted novel. The writing is superb, the attention to detail magnificent and the story itself is particularly thrilling and interesting. I watched the movie a few years back, so I knew the ending. Even with a huge spoiler like that, I thoroughly enjoyed this book and it was as gripping and suspenseful as it would be if I had no clue about the resolution of the story. I really enjoyed Diehl's writing style, and I can't wait to get my hands on some of the other books he wrote.
Unlike Sharky’s Machine (also by William Diehl) in which the good guys obviously wore the white hats, and the bad guys obviously wore the black hats, this novel, Primal Fear, is all shades of gray…and blood red.A high profile defense attorney who has never lost a case is assigned to defend, pro bono, the altar boy accused of butchering the city’s most popular archbishop.
A defense strategy begins to come together.As the trial starts, Vail begins to chip away at the prosecution’s case…and maybe it’s not such a “slam dunk” after all.This novel raises a number of questions about the way the justice system works.
Martin Vail, a quick-witted lawyer who isn't afraid to leap before he looks, is basically coerced into defending the young man who appears guilty in every sense of the word.
Every politician in the city seems to have a vendetta against Vail and looks foward to seeing him lose the case.Liked the movie.
The Vail in the book is a man who isn't overly concerned about his personal appearance, and he isn't afraid to grab at straws, and he makes lawyers tremble just at the mention of his name.
I read the "twist" over and over again, even though I've seen the movie and knew what to expect.
I read Primal Fear when it came out in 1998 and finished it in two days.
I saw the movie was being shown again a couple of weeks ago on cable, but I decided to re-read the book instead.I have to say that, unlike so many re-reads, Primal Fear has withstood nearly twenty years, and I enjoyed it more the second time.
No need to frantically turn pages this time--I knew how it would end, so now I could concentrate on the subplots, the characterization, witty dialogue, and other details I sailed past the first time.
For a book that had so much hype, I have to say that I am rather disappointed.
Most of the book was engaging, and I was prepared to give it a higher rating.
However, I was hit with the disappointment one has when something starts, and goes on with plenty of promise, only to fizzle out in the end...
which is exactly what happened with this book.
The last court scene felt like the author had just gotten bored of his work and decided to just wrap things up quickly.
The very last chapter/scene just made it even worse.
First and best in a series, followed by "Show Of Evil" and "Reign In Hell."Also a great film starring Richard Gere and Edward Norton in his debut role.The city of Chicago is shocked when their "saint of Lakeview Drive," Archbishop Richard Bernard Rushman, is brutally murdered in his own rectory.
He is hated by every prosecutor in the city.
Vail is forced to defend Aaron Stampler as sort of a "slap on the wrist." Aaron's Appalachian mountain accent and angelic appearance is only the beginning to a great defense.Author William Diehl hits the jackpot with this tale of murder and suspense.
Excellent writing and some of the best characters I've met.I've seen the movie years ago but didn't expect the book to be as good, if not better.
I was proven wrong, the book revealed to me one of my new favourite genres of writing: courtroom thriller.The text is easy to read, the jargon isn't too difficult and the switch between past and present events, or descriptions of characters backrounds, works well.I liked Vail and Naomi.
I mean, it could have easily been left out.Anyway, the plot is great and I liked how Diehl worked his way to the end.
I read this many years ago but couldn't remember how everything fleshed out in the end. I started remembering more as I read further into the book. This didn't distract me from the storyline, but instead, engaged me more fully in the story. It let me get to know the characters more, and I liked all the main players.A tight and taut legal thriller with a good twist ending. Well worth the read.
CHILLS. There are not enough words in the English language to explain just how incredible this book is. I couldn't even begin to explain the mastered crafts of writing, psychology, and drama that Diehl weaves together. This book will remain in my top 5 for years to come.
This was a very interesting story. I enjoyed the characters and the twist...……...Wow!!!
Great Courtroom drama. Just when you though you had the hang of it, the story keeps getting better and betterHighly recommended!
Thought provoking A Bishop with an eminent standing in the local community is sadistically murdered by a teenager who was under his care, to the point that beyond the large amount of mortal wounds inflicted all over his body, his genital organs end up stuffed in his mouth .The potential perpetrator is a teenager suffering from a multiple personality disorder.
Who is the Bishop indeed ?Legal psycho thriller, with two great caracter developments, Vail,the flamboyant fiery defense attorney who is defending the teenager pro bono, and Aaron the defendant, who acts as an individual with two turning personalities, Aaron the gifted innocent hilbilly boy, and Roy the mean sadistic beast who cannot tell good from evil.
This novel is not just another court-room drama, William Diehl created a bad-ass lawyer that contradicts with John Grisham lawyers (the conscience-loving lawyers).At first, you would think the story is quite predictable for the reason that the case seems rather clear: an altar boy running away from the home of the bishop where he's killed (scenario: a bishop with blood all over his clothes).
That third person must have killed the bishop, the boy's innocent.
Bad boy lawyer Vail jams it up the governments ass sideways in a settlement, and is repaid by having to defend the accused in a viscous murder trial pro bono.
As he peels the onion on Aaron Stampler, he finds that the boy is harboring deep psychological issues and upon further investigation finds that Aaron has a split personality, and that his alter ego is a satanic murderer.
Facing the state that wants his client fried, Vail prepares and elaborate ruse to have the second personality come forward during intense cross examination at the trial, and the state is forced to settle the case of guilty but insane as the only alternative to a mistrial.
I really liked reading about the court case, but whenever there were segments that didn't pertain to the case I skipped them.
I found they slowed down the pace of the book, and broke my focus on the bigger story (which could possibly have been the authors intention).
No, I haven't seen the movie yet (but I now plan to!), and I think that helped me to enjoy the book more and keep focus instead of making comparisons to each version.
It was interesting to see his thought process.I'm not sure if I will read the other two in this series, but I highly recommend this book!
Far better than the film. Yes I know. But the book is 99%? of the time better than the film. (Although the casting was DEVINE! )This is the twist at its best. This is the pompous arse getting his arse handed to him on a silver platter. Murder most foul, and yet, psychological mindf@@kary at its apex. What else can I say.
Martin Vail is defending Aaron Stampler who is accused of murdering Archbishop Rushman.
Vail has a good team to assist him with this case and uses unorthodox methods to get the information he needs.Diehl built intriguing characters in an amazing story.
However, when he is found hiding in the confessional covered in blood and holding the murder weapon, he looks guilty.
I kept feeling like he didn't do it, so I was anxious to find out if he did or didn't.Diehl had a lot of technical mental health information in the book.
Did not see this ending coming. Not since Orwell's 1984 has a last line in any novel chilled me the way Diehl's has. Far superior to any courtroom drama, "Primal Fear" employs the essential stream of suspense, but also tackles the psychological interior of criminal mind and motive. His style is blatant, sometimes crude; Diehl is not striving for poetic analogies or metaphors, but mostly dialogue, upbeat, fluid, and remarkably realistic. He uses this dialogue and characters with seemingly tangible personalities to create a story of conflict, complications, denouement. And I applaud the denouement.
A rippingly good suspense story with an addictive lawyer Vail and a chilling villain - or is he - in the form of Aaron. This is the second time I've read it and I did remember the plot and the outcome but it is such a well written book, it was still entertaining to read it for the second time. It was exciting, fast moving, had plenty of interesting characters and first time through - I remember my toes curling at the end. If you like dark psychological suspense stories - they don't get much better than this.
Wow this book deserved more than 5 stars, every page you turned there was a new twist to the story you never what to expect. This is about Vail and Venables in the court they dance around each, but knows Venables much better. Every time she thinks she got the upper hand, she just plays into Vails mind games. It is mind games, the biggest surprise is the last page, it was a shame when this story had to end. I will definitely be reading more of Mr Diehl's books.
My terrible memory strikes again. The version of this book that I read didn't have the movie image on it, so I didn't make the connection to the 1996 movie until I finished the book and was thinking...what a predictable way to end this type of story. Then I realized the reason I thought it was "predictable" is because I had seen the movie way back when. Thanks brain.
One of the few instances where the movie actually was almost as good as the book. Back in the 80's and 90's William Diehl was one of the authors from whom I waited, not always patiently, for a new release.
Murder MysteryRead this about 15 years ago. It's on my list of Best Ever Reads. I highly recommend the movie as well, with brilliant acting by Edward Norton & Richard Gere.
My sister  kind of  hinted me the ending so I was able to predict it and that's why I'm giving it 4 stars otherwise this book is a solid 5 out of 5. No questions asked.
