https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51069.The_Growing_Pains_of_Adrian_Mole
HAHAHA! So funny! I may have laughed manically several times (in public) and gained worrying looks from observers but I couldn't help it! Seriously, SO FUNNY.
Oh Adrian.
Here are just a few samples of Adrian's diary:Sunday May 9thMother's Day (USA & Canada)I have just realized that I have never seen a dead body or a real female nipple.
Yet my diary for that period records my childhood fourteen year old thoughts and preoccupations.I wonder, did Jack the Ripper's wife innocently write:10:30 pm: Jack late home.
Perhaps he is kept late at the office.12:10 a.m.: Jack home covered in blood; an offal cart knocked him down.Pandora is standing by me at this time of crisis.
Read by Harry McEntire.Adrian continues to battle valiantly against the slings and arrows of growing up and his own family's attempts to scar him for life.
Following on from The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole aged 13 3/4, it is now 1982 and Adrian is 15.Adrian's parents are back together and his mother is pregnant, much to Adrian's surprise and embarrassment.
He soldiers bravely on through the many challenges that life throws at him, and wins a place in our hearts with his charming naivety.Reader: Harry McEntire Abridger: Sara DaviesProducer: Alexa MooreA Pier production for BBC Radio 4.https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0b9...
A+++++++++++Laugh out loud funny !
Fun fun fun. Looking forward to the weekend next book! :-)
He's coming up on age 16 now, and still as angst-ridden as he was in the first book.
Very witty and all the more surprising as it comes from an adult woman writing about the feelings of a teenage boy.
My only caveat is that if you don't have a familiarity with British personalities and humor, you probably won't find this as funny as those of us who live in the UK do.
Even though I have been living here for two years, I still had to have my husband explain a few references to me.
Adrian Mole grew on me. I cannot describe this book (and the series in general) more perfectly than New York Times did: The Adrian Mole Diaries is "as sad and devastating as it is laugh-out-loud funny!"Oh, and I LOVE the audiobook narration by Nicholas Barnes!
But, I actually want to give this book 3.75 stars without rounding it up to four - so three it is.So, Adrian Mole, how do I love thee?
Yes, it has come to this.
I love that you are so completely polarizing and self-absorbed.
I LOVE THE EIGHTIES :) It was a good decade.
Interlibrary loan - here I come - give me numbers three and four - stat!
(I require this series in twos - because there exist enough in the series for me to just read, read, read at this point AND I finished this good read far too quickly.
I require more Mole!
I like the book because it was very funny but some times it was very hard for the characters.The book is about a character named Adrian Mole, he is 15 years old and is in puberty so he got a lot of feelings, thats normal.
Finally Pandora ( the girlfriend of Adrian ) came back to Adrian at the end of the book and they had sex.I think that it is worth of reading if you are in puberty too, because maybe you got the same feelings as the main character or the same feelings like Pandora and then can this book help you with your life.
Saw this in a used book store and just had to buy it, especially as it had the same cover as our original childhood version! Man, what is there not to love about Adrian Mole? Reading it as an adult I was definitely better equipped to understand all the jokes. It's also a really interesting look at 1980's England, definitely not something that interested me as a young'un. Poor Adrian and his struggles to be a literary intellectual.... too funny. I can't wait until enough years pass so that I can re-read this book once again with fresh eyes.
Just as wonderful as the first. Actually made me laugh out loud at seceral points, which is something not many books manage to do.
See my notes on "The Secret Diary". More of the same, just as funny, with a subtle modification of tone as Adrian matures - after his fashion!
THIS BOOK IS HILARIOUS!!!so adrian mole is back again..the intellectual trying to decide whether he should or shouldn't do is 'o levels' and how he feels about his mum being pregnant (HE DID NOT REALISE UNTIL SHE ACTUALLY SAID I AM PREGNANT OMG)his observations are the best.
his comments on politics and oh his poetry that he sends to the BBC...he is just absolutely hilarious.
'must i live amongst uneducated peasants for the rest of my life?' -Adrian Moleseriously, if you like funny books, books set in the 1980s or just want a good laugh then this is the book for you.
I've had this book such a long time, the pages are falling out, at some point I've spilt tea all over it and those pages are all stained.
I don't think I'll be able to pass this book on.
I read the rest of the series a year or so ago but there was a gap where I'd misplaced this one.
Adrian is best as a teenager, he becomes annoying as he turns into an adult.
I think I'm less forgiving of adult Adrian.
This book made me giggle most of the way through.
Think I appreciate this more now than I did back when I last read it.
There are very few books that can really make me laugh out loud but Adrian Mole does it every time.
I honestly think Adrian is one of the greatest characters ever created and his early diaries are particularly funny because he is just so naive yet thinks of himself as the most intellectual 15 year old that ever lived.
I urge anyone not familiar with the series to start with the first diary at 13 and 3/4 rather than jumping in at 15 since the characters are all developing over the years and it's more fun to have the background of his parent's affairs etc.
První dva díly moleovské ságy mám hodně ráda (tenhle víc). Když jsem je četla ve "třinácti a tři čtvrtě", bavila jsem se hlavně lapáliemi hlavního hrdiny, zpětně jsem pak deníky docenila i jako zdroj nejrůznějších humorných poznatků a pozorování z prostředí thatcherovské Británie. Pod jejich vlivem jsem se opakovaně pokoušela nějaké deníky sama psát, první začínal nějak takhle: "Dnes jsem vrátila lístek na oběd a šla si do papírnictví koupit tenhle deník."
Stuck at work on twelve hour nights, this is the perfect antidote to them. Must be about the fifth time I've read this book. Still hilarious and full of wise wisdom. Sue Townsend takes a scalpel to cut open our rotten society. Funny, serious, and full of pathos.
Не уму, не сердце. Далёк я от страданий низшего среднего класса Англии начала восьмидесятых годов прошлого века. Наверное, и не имеет смысла читать дальше...
(3.5 stars)
Read it in about two days. Funny :-)
The Growing Pains of Adrian Mole was a funny book. This make me laugh.
its a funny story i swear.
I chose this book because I liked the description of the book that I read.
They said in the description that it's a funny and simple diary of a teen-boy called Adrian Mole and that it goes about love, the divorcing of his parents, helping old people and thinking about sex and school.
The parents of Adrian Mole were divorced and came back to each other, at breakfast they told Adrian his mom was pregnant but not from his father.
At the end of the book Pandora ( his girlfriend ) came back to Adrian and they had sex.
All the characters you fondly remember from the first book are present, and he gets a few more.This is full of humorous observations on life, all through the clouded vision of a typical teenager in 1980s England.
From the non sequiturs to the realistic portrayals (everyone will recognize at least one character or "type" from their own lives) and school angst, it's side-splittingly funny.
He tries so hard but never gets it, whatever "it" is.(Although I have the complete set, I'm having to take a break before reading the next, because otherwise I wouldn't appreciate them as much.)Disclaimer: I received a free copy from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Sue Townsend really hit her stride with this second installment of Adrian Mole.
The first book seemed to me to be on the dull side after a while for reasons I expressed in my review of that book.But there was something about it that made me want to go on to this second Adrian Mole.
As I mentioned in my last review, I have read these before many years ago and remember liking them a lot.This second volume proves that.
The Growing Pains of Adrian Moleby Sue TownsendOpen Road Integrated MediaTeens & YAPub Date 02 Jan 2018 I am reviewing a copy of The Growing Pains Of Adrian Mole through Open Road Integrated Media and Netgalley:Adrian Mole is a fifteen year old sensitive poet, of the Midlands.
Adrian's hormones are like a whirlpool.
He grows weary of his parents arguing and fighting and runs away staying on the streets until his parents get him, and the doctors diagnose him as depressed.I give The Growing Pains Of Adrian Mole four out of five stars!Happy Reading!
Читает:«Сенсация» какой-то тетки Ивлин Во – Аргентина на грани конфликта с Британией.«Тихий Американец» Грэма Грина – приезжал американец Хэмиш.«Счастливчик Джим» Кингсли Эмиса – весь день провел с Пандорой.«Жестокое море» какого-то Николаса – ездили на Гибралтар смотреть природу.«Свадьбы на Троицу» Филипа Ларкина – ждал чека от соц.службы«Повелитель мух» Голдинга – заставили читать в школе.«С любовью к вам, Сэр» - испытывал эмоциональную отверженность по причине рождения сестры Рози«В дороге» Керуака – просто так (а может и нет - т.к. через некоторое время сбежал из дому)«Кингсли, Жизнь, письма и дневники Мартина Кингсли». Почему-то там не говорится, что он написал «Счастливчика Джима»
I must have read this before, before the start of the book was quite familiar to me, but I'm not sure I've ever got to the end, because it certainly took a few twists and turns along the way.I've never really considered a woman's pregnancy from the point of view of her teenage son, so that was quite fun to peruse.
No matter how pretentious Adrian gets, you always end up feeling sorry for him, considering what a mess his family is.It all comes out alright in the end though, and now I'm super keen to read the next one, I'm pretty confident I've never read that one before.
While I enjoyed this slightly less than the first in the series, I can't demote it to 3 stars.
Adrian is a little older and accordingly slightly less charming in the way of bumbling youth.
The life problems and illustrated social commentary is a little more serious.
The gaffes are a little less funny.
But I cared as much about the characters and maybe a little more.
I will probably continue the series after taking a little break.
Klub Siaran: Buku bersampul warna merahBefore Wimpy Kid, there was Adrian Mole. Even life in 1984 already complicated without advance technology as is. Falkland Crisis, teenage hormone, adultery, new baby sister and brother, 'O' level exam, just a few of Adrian problems. Aidy tried to run away, too. But it only lasts a couple days. A good wive of a vicar called his parents about his whereabouts. A bit disappointed with the end, but it really suits Adrian as existentialist nihilist. xp#timbunanbbw2017
