https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1325218.Scary_Stories_to_Tell_in_the_Dark
I'm not giving any stars here, only a warning: beware which edition of this collection you choose, for if you choose unwisely, you will be sorely ripped off in more ways than one.
The reason the original 1981 edition became an instant classic and a frequently challenged book in schools and libraries was for Stephen Gammell's ghoulish and nightmarish artwork.
Perhaps for when I write a real review for the real version of this book, the only one that counts, the only one that should be bought and gifted to any young person seeking his or her gateway drug into the realm of the macabre.
The illustrations were the really scary part of these books. I remember being afraid to turn the page and look at the next one when I was a kid, peeling the next page over gradually like a Band-Aid. One pictured effed me up so badly I had to tape a piece of construction paper over it so I could flip through the book without having a heart attack.
Before bed, the room must be checked to for all odd-looking shadows that might morph into something terrifying when I open my eyes in the middle of the night.Above all, all toes must be secured, or else something will munch on them.It didn't help me when I was 12.I read 5 pages of this book, and I couldn't go on.
I don't know if you've seen the drawings, but this book is absolutely fucking terrifying.
Stephen King has nothing on you.I'm a grown-ass woman, and tonight, I'm still going to sleep with one eye open.
My imagination was fertile, and it tended to grow dark twisted things with thorns that were poisonous to my thoughts, vines of blackened fish-hooks that would creep over me like ivy and ensnare my mind, body, and soul.
My early encounters with anything of the 'horror' variety would take on a life of it's own, finding a nest in my kid brain where it could grow into something much more monstrous.
Never in my young life had I been read anything like it.
But during story time at school I could feel fear eating at me, the discomfort welling up from my gut to my heart as I tried to digest horrors I’d never been presented before.
This book is featured on Halloween Reads for Children @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...This is a great collection of short scary stories for kids to enjoy.
It’s a book that I enjoyed as a child and can now share with my own kids.
Some of the stories are pretty scary and best for older readers, but a few of them can be read to younger readers as well.
There are plenty of traditional ghost stories, retellings and folklore to enjoy.
As scary stories go, they are only slightly. Sometimes they are funny, or just weird, or sad. Except the one about Harold the Scarecrow. God, that one is terrifying. Oh and the spiders hatching from your face.But the illustrations... The illustrations in this book are good old-fashioned nightmare fuel. I really don't know what they were thinking.I mean, what were they thinking?Facebook 30 Day Book Challenge Day 8: Book that scares you.
"In the dark and the gloom, it is easy for someone listening to imagine all sorts of strange and scary things."A collection of stories based on American folklore written with the intention of giving you the creeps or making you jump with fright.
The stories are accompanied by delightfully disturbing illustrations provided by Stephen Gammell.Anytime I post these books on instagram, people lose their shit.
It seems that everyone overseas (and by overseas I mean America or Canada) can attribute all their childhood nightmares to the stories and illustrations found within these collections.
This is a wonderful little collection of stories that are chilling and, at times, rather funny. A blend of urban legends and folk tales of ghosts and other creatures of the night and a series of sketches that are as ''scary'' as the stories they accompany create a result that is perfect for Halloween, for a cold winter's night or a stormy summer evening.
Ah yes, the one book back in third grade that kept me entertained!
Hay dos partes diferenciadas: la de las historias en sí -la más larga tiene 4 páginas- y la de la explicación de las historias.Creo que la más interesante es sin duda en la que el autor explica todo lo que hay detrás de esos cuentos.
Sin embargo, como la parte de las historietas está dividida en sí en diferentes temáticas, ha comenzado a cambiar, y así, me ha ido conquistando.Lo comenté por Instagram: hay alguna historia que me ha hecho pasar miedo de verdad.
No todas son buenísimas, hay algunas más simples, pero las que me han dado miedo...
YES…DEFINITELY YES! I have always loved reading banned books because even though I am usually curious about the reasons why they were banned in the first place, it just makes me really want to read the books even more! Well, I just picked up this spooky book for children called “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark” by Alvin Schwartz along with illustrations by Stephen Gammell and it basically has several horror folktales collected over the years. “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark” is definitely
Some of my favorite stories in this book were “The Big Toe,” “Cold as Clay,” “The White Wolf,” “A New Horse,” and “The Ghost With the Bloody Fingers.” Stephen Gammell’s illustrations were truly haunting yet effective at the same time as the monster images were truly frightening to look at.
Parents might want to read this book first before they read it to their children in order to prevent children from having nightmares if they cannot handle the morbid content of this book.Overall, “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark” is a brilliant collection of scary tales that you can tell in the dark while scaring people during storytelling time!
Oh, always.I mean, how much can you really trust a kids book whose very first story is about cannibalism?A boy finds a human toe in the garden, brings it to his mother, and what does she say?"It looks nice and plump.
That's exactly the person this book would be.This person lives in a world where eating people is perfectly acceptable, all the clothes you buy are laced with embalming fluid, no random farmer is safe from the wrath of the dead, and if you're wondering when an animal has an ominous feeling about something, you can ask and they'll happily get up and divulge your doom to you.It's just that kind of place.Gammell's infamous illustrations...
You know which one I mean.And that wolf with the google-eyes..."Draw a wolf for our kids book." they said.Wolf!?
Is everybody having an especially lovely day? Tucking in for a blissful night's sleep? Good, I have something to show you.  I read this on my kindle late at night under the covers with nothing but the illumination of my phone screen to light the words. Can you imagine my shock at the following appearing out of nowhere after the flick of the side-button?  I don't have much to say about this collection other than I might be a little bit in love with Schwartz for putting together such a horrificall
Is everybody having an especially lovely day?
Tucking in for a blissful night's sleep?
I read this on my kindle late at night under the covers with nothing but the illumination of my phone screen to light the words.
I don't have much to say about this collection other than I might be a little bit in love with Schwartz for putting together such a horrifically fun book.
*Also, The Hearse Song made my skin crawl and has encouraged me to purchase a night-lamp of some sort – preferably in the shape of a small, cheerful little kitten.
Through the years of moving and just living life, his copies had been lost or given away.....but he remembered how much he loved the books and brought me copies so I could re-read them.
I'm going to re-read these books and think about that little boy that has grown into a very awesome man.
Because this book was about stories that could be told in the dark, I remember that we took turns reading the stories out loud, showing the pictures at appropriate intervals.
I remember one sleepover where the boys huddled in sleeping bags while we told ghost stories....some from this book.
3.5 starsThis book is aimed for childrenA gateway to horror and scary stories Easy read Appealing
And I've been trying to scare myself ever since.So, how does the original hold up, read after more time has passed than I'm willing to admit, and more horror books and movies than I can count?
Maybe the scariest thing about my tattered copy of Scary Stories is Stephen Gammell's art.
(Here it is!) It's visceral and haunting and more than a little surreal, and it's absolutely the first thing I think of when I remember the Scary Stories books.But for some reason, the most recent edition has brand new art by Brett Helquist.
This is the book of nightmares. I will never re-read it as it both scared and scarred me even when I was a child with no sense of my own mortality. If I even attempted it now...*shudder*Speaking of nightmares. Here, have some.(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Timeless stories adapted in an ageless manner, mixed with some of the most phenomenally horrific illustrations ever.
These elements make Scary Stories to Tell In the Dark (and its sequels) the best horror stories ever catered to children.
Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark was my stepping stone to Stephen King, who was my stepping stone to Clive Barker, etc.
As someone immersed in the genre, still trying to explore all its corners and shadows, I fully admit that my obsession began when I first picked up a copy of Scary Stories to Tell In the Dark and felt that first chill run down my spine.
I loved all the traditional horror stories in this book, but it was also the illustrations that accented each story, they're really creepy and incredibly detailed!
😝👻😈
As far as the collection of stories?
Eh, they're actually quite tame (after all, this is a child's book).
Many of the tales are actually very silly, some intentionally so.
I am so happy to gradually be collecting the old Scary Stories anthologies, as (as far as my knowledge goes) the older editions with the Gammell drawings aren't being produced any more.
I, for one, am clutching onto these old books for safekeeping, and gladly will pass them along to my kids if they ever get the horror bug.
First, I got all fired up about these stories after reading Monster Chefs, which was the complete opposite of Scary Stories, and then, I got all snarky on some poor guy I don't even know's review and that's when I realized, "Man, I am so glad I own two of these books and now I must scour used book stores for the third!" and THEN I thought, "Wait-oh!
Because we, the library, read books for kids all the time and post said readings online so it only makes sense I can go find an audio/video version out there somewhere!" Because that is how the internet works.
This book scared the shit out of me as a kid. I haven't even been able to muster up the courage necessary to read it again because I have such terrifying memories of the artwork.
This anthology of scary stories is one of the creepiest books I've ever laid my hands on.
The fact that this book has stayed with me so long is what makes it so good.
You won't forget many of these stories, and if you do, then maybe there's at least one that you'll remember for a long time (if you want to remember).
And hopefully, just like me, they even started your own interest in scary stories!
Favorite ones: The Big Toe, The Guests, The Hook, High Beams, The Babysitter, and The Viper(Also, the pictures within this book are utterly horrifying!
The stories are not exactly how I thought they will be. But they are exactly like the title refers to. These are stories that one can tell in the dark and can scream,moan,jump- basically can do whatever he wants to scare his friends. And I actually succeeded in scaring my next door neighbour kid :pBut still,the stories are too small and not scary at all unless you act your part in the ending. Did I like the book? No. Will I read the next book in this series? No. So,there goes my 2 stars.
The best collection of stories to tell at a slumber party, ever! A great mix of scary tales and funny ones. Kids especially love the creepy illustrations by Stephen Gammell. Love them, and are freaked out by them, too.Interesting fact: This book is frequently stolen from libraries.
This book what is another fast paced book and I really enjoyed it.
Warning:  Proceed with caution!!Oh bejesus, what was I thinking reading this at night? Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark is not for the faint of heart. As the name suggests, you’ll find a collection of scary stories here that are perfect to tell around campfires, or at slumber parties, or if you’re like me, they’re perfect reading material at night with the lights turned off. If you do opt for the third option, I’d suggest you prepare for a rather sleepless night!In terms of the stories themsel
Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark is not for the faint of heart.
As the name suggests, you’ll find a collection of scary stories here that are perfect to tell around campfires, or at slumber parties, or if you’re like me, they’re perfect reading material at night with the lights turned off.
If you do opt for the third option, I’d suggest you prepare for a rather sleepless night!In terms of the stories themselves, I’d say they’re sort of...meh.
I mean just look at this.
Fear trickles down the back of my spine just looking at Gammell’s illustrations.
My brothers and I grew up reading this and other collections, not to mention the classics of Frankenstein, Dracula, and other horrors.
It was surprising to me when my younger brother mentioned missing this book, because I had been feeling the same way!
This book is an excellent read for anyone who remembers what scary stories were SUPPOSED to be like as a child.
If you are looking for a true horror novel, or even a collection of "adult" ghost stories, this isn't for you.
When I was a 5th grader this book anthology was one of my favorites. While not all the stories are great as an adult read some are still pretty good. My picks are The Guests, Room For One More, The White Satin Evening Gown, & Wait Till Martin Comes. I still love this book & suggest you guys give it a reread.
