https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/343037.Self_Mastery_Through_Conscious_Autosuggestion
This is an excellent book that should be taken for its own worth, given the time it was written in, the mindset of the times, the writing style of the times, etc.
A lot has changed since then, but it still remains a charming, useful, delightful, informative, inspiring reference by a man I like and respect.
I like to think of Placebo Effect in relation to what he has to say in the book and how that is all related to modern medical and psychological research.
Quite charming indeed!
You can read it for free online via Google books, archive.org, as well as several other sites.
Excellent read on the subject of the Power of the Mind and BodyI picked Coué's book because I had been studying J.
But after reading this, I categorize it as an application to Murphy's book, a more practical guide to everything that Murphy says, even though, from the two, it is Coué who is the pioneer in the field, having enounced and proven all these facts since the beginning of the 20th century.
It is definitely a fascinating field!This book has definitely sparked an interest to discover his other works as well.
V interesting lecture - good insight and easy to see where The Secret have pinched a few ideas from...
The author claims that our brain consists of two parts: conscious(will) and subconscious(imagination).
And the way we tame the horse is with autosuggestion.
We only cease to be puppets when we have learned to guide our imagination.-autosuggestion is nothing but hypnotism as I see it, and I would define it in these simple words: The influence of the imagination upon the moral and physical being of mankind.-We are what we make ourselves and not what circumstances make us.-Whoever starts off in life with the idea: "I shall succeed", always does succeed because he does what is necessary to bring about this result.
Tra il dire e il fare cè di mezzo il mare - 'between saying and doing there is half a sea'- Old Italian proverb.If you have ever wondered about the impact of self-fulfilling prophecies, the power of telling yourself something over and over has then this could be the book for you to read.Émile Coué's autosuggestive techniques seem to work in practice. Coming from the early tradition of psychotherapeutic practices Coué tried to create a system that might cure people of their psychological ailments
Tra il dire e il fare c´è di mezzo il mare - 'between saying and doing there is half a sea'- Old Italian proverb.If you have ever wondered about the impact of self-fulfilling prophecies, the power of telling yourself something over and over has then this could be the book for you to read.Émile Coué's autosuggestive techniques seem to work in practice.
Is there evidence for these techniques working?While Émile Coué takes the energy of willpower to the extreme, sometimes too far, in my opinion, he certainly does have a point to argue that the mind is powerful, as when vivid thoughts manifest themselves subconsciously, one can indeed accomplish seemingly impossible tasks so long as one believes, deeply, maybe also naively, that the task is possible.
it was a quick reading..it gave me a new perspective on the idea of imagination..I like to think that the imagination is the foundation for most of our acts ..too many examples of patients healings.. i guess all these examples were meant to autosuggest us into believing this idea;)..I might be wrong, well i hope i am wrong because it could really help a lot of people including myself to master our unconsiouss mind. So I will definitely try these methods.
What can I say about this book? A bit boring while listing diseases and patients, but interesting because of the concept.Do I believe in autosuggestion? I don't know. For sure I have ever thought that mind power or a certain kind of interior strenght can do much more of what we normally believe.Especially the Western world is scientifically oriented and often fails to deal with what is difficult to explain rationally.Sometimes it is interesting to also leave a bit of space to mysticism and to man and nature's hidden abilities.I am wondering myself writing all of this ;-)
Autosuggestion: the implanting of an idea in oneself by oneself.We humans have a certain resemblance to sheep, and involuntarily, we are irresistibly impelled to follow other people's examples, imagining we cannot do otherwise.When the will and the imagination are in agreement, one does not add to the other, but one is multiplied by the other.Start from imagination first, then will. Not other way.
It's a short book, so not a lot of time has to be wasted reading it. The phrasing is a bit archaic, but then what can one expect from something that was written more than one hundred years ago?But there is one thing that is undeniable: it is the most positive work I've ever encountered.
What a pleasure it has been! I've adhered to the common phrase that one idea can ,and will ,change you in both thought forms and mannerisms and the Coue Method is definitely one of them. A 52 paged psychological thrill.. life-changing ,heart warming and thought-provoking brilliance.
A very shortish book but still provides a clear understanding of how powerful Autosuggestion can be in unleashing limitless potential of our unconscious mind.
Une prétention de connaissance sans aucun fondement scientifique, juste la médiocrité de ce que l’auteur imagine comme vrais et veut vendre aux gents. . Pas une seule référence ou étude réelle.
this is also listed on web md as a way for healing cancer!
One of the classics of clinical hypnosis.But, it's boring, and I don't think you can cure diabetes with hypnosis. Sorry.
Interesting stuff....if you're into hypnotism. :)
