https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10374.Hard_Boiled_Wonderland_and_the_End_of_the_World
If you like Murakami, you'll like it, although it doesn't blend the two twisted sides of Murakami's writing as well as a book like "Norwegian Wood" or "Kafka on the Shore." In each of those novels, the reader gets transitions within chapters, and his talents for myth-telling in both the mystical and mundane worlds is woven together like two different colored pieces of yarn, fraying and blending at the end.
Oddly, the formal structure of the book - one chapter in reality, one chapter in myth - lends itself to reading the two stories as each lending to the other, but one could almost (until the very end) read each one as independent of the other.
Well, as many of you may remember, I’ve been known to pick on Jay Rubin now and again for what I perceive to be his clunky translations of Murakami’s flawless prose.
I’m not so sure…Translations aside, as I mentioned in my little place holder review, Murakami’s books are like comfort food for my soul.
When the experimental fictions are crushing my brain or nothing else is really revving my engine, I pick up a Murakami novel and all is right with the world again.
In fact, in what I’ve come to love about Murakami, it is the rule.
You are a bird in fight, searching the skies for dreams.” ― Haruki Murakami, Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the WorldThere is so much to say about Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World, I'm just not certain I'm the one to say it.
It is obvious, that Murakami has a love for the hard-boiled detective novels of the 30's, 40's and 50's, and while his Hard-Boiled Wonderland portion of the book is interesting, it's also obvious that Murakami has a lot to learn from Phillip Marlow.
Where Murakami best succeeds is with the End of the World portion of the book.
And I couldn't be any other self but my self. Could I? There is always a possibility.In the summer of 1962, a poet wrote a song that would later become the last hymn to be heard as the end of the world approached. That is the song I chose to be my companion while writing another non-review; a song that is being followed closely by the mellifluous gusts of wind that break the silence of this monochromatic night. Being my first Murakami, quite frankly, I didn't know what to expect. This is, witho
Facts unfold following the familiar cadences of a foreign narrative and I – stunned, in deep thought, marveled at how every piece falls into the right place, slowly, cautiously, with desperate detachment and stoic passion until the puzzle is almost complete – contemplate once more how life bifurcates and reveals two realities intrinsically different and yet strongly connected: one belongs to the actual world and the other to the realm of the mind.

Like a river, as it flows, the course changes with the terrain."Typically, Murakami works his way through your subconscious, toying with recognitions of the past and future, in that magical state much like a dream (but slightly different), where you lose time, and explore and recognize parts of yourself; all while occasionally getting hit with an outburst of powerful consciousness.
Some of his novels (Norwegian Wood and  South of the Border, West of the Sun, for example), play with the more sentimental sections of the subconscious; but this, this is an overt exploration of the dreamlike state -- an ingenious, different world with human beings with human thoughts and emotions like us, yes.
This is a complex novel, one that required two reads for me.
It tells two stories in alternating chapters.
He gets recruited for some top-secret government project led by some mad scientist type, who lives holed up in a cave (under a waterfall) with his buxom daughter.
He is forced to give up his shadow and is put to work reading the old dreams out of unicorn skulls.
Why do these two stories alternate?
(Not to mention the skulls.) All these questions are what keep this novel going.
And Murakami's words, his prose, his verbage, the way he can turn a phrase...
Does the story deliver on all the promises this wonderful title embodies?Yes.I decided to re-visit this book after having read it around 3 years ago (before my reviewing habit kicked in) because I remembered it being an instant favorite but didn't remember why exactly.
a superb introduction to this great author.While in the other books I've read by him it felt as if all the characters were conspiring to make things as strange as possible for the reader, thinking so far outside of the box the mere notion of a box seemed ludicrous, in this one they seem more sympathetic.
I tried to cover a lot of what's in the story here, but I didn't even come close to getting it all.
Right BrainUpon the fields, yet of no snow,frolic an acquiescence we yet to sow,brilliant beasts, th
However, the cold, metallic neurophysiology, whether accurate or not (I don’t know much about brain chemistry, so I can’t say one way or the other) left me, for the first time in my long history with the author, hoping a long, clinical section near the middle of the book would end quickly.
No. While (in my eyes, and I know Murakami is one of those “love/hate” goodreads authors) most of the author’s work is transcendent and inspiring, The Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World earns those descriptors on rare and brief occasions.
An icy torrent showing how crystal clear things are, and a scorching torrent enveloping things with a blanket of moisture, both drive together to reveal you in your truest form and cleanse you of any impurity and grime.In Hard Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World Murakami once again presents parallel stories as he’d done in more famous works like Kafka On The Shore and Sputnik Sweetheart.
Sometimes I come across people who try to read Murakami because they think his books are ‘Instagram worthy.’ They say he’s ‘deep’ and ‘aesthetic’ and he writes relatable things and he’s famous so he has to be good.
The Gatekeeper forces him to part with his shadow (sure, why not, it doesn’t hurt), and he assumes his job as a Dreamreader, experiencing the shreds of human memories and dreams from unicorn skulls housed in the Town Library.
It was as good as sealing yourself into a dungeon Walled in, with nowhere to go but your own doom.Much more discussion by the characters in both worlds concern the nature of the mind and identity, their dependence on time and memory, and the reality of the unconscious.
Reading Hard-boiled Wonderland and the End of the World is like what one of the judges, Jennifer Lopez, commented to my favorite contestant, Pia Toscano (picture below) when she sang a Motown song a couple of weeks back.
It tells about Murakami and his passion in reading.
The End of the World narration here is similar to Franz Kafka's The Castle and the idea of a man being separated from his shadow can be found in Knut Hamsun's 1898 novel, Victoria.Like Pia, Murakami's Hardboiled Wonderland and the End of the World rates:Writing: Checked.
I'd previously read two Haruki Murakami novels, A Wild Sheep Chase, and After Dark, his earliest and most recent that have been translated into English, respectively.
After reading Hardboiled Wonderland and the End of the World, however, I suddenly Got It.The title refers to the two portions of the book - Hardboiled Wonderland is about a man who mentally processes information for a living - it's vaguely sci-fi-ish, but not enough to turn off readers who aren't interested in sci-fi.
The End of the World is about a man who suddenly arrives in a unicorn-filled town that is surrounded by a Wall.
“More often than not I’ve observed that convenient approximations bring you closest to comprehending the true nature of things.” 3.5 stars. Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World’s strange, playful investigation into the complexities of the mind was innovative, thought-provoking and, quite often, utterly charming. Here dualism, which often runs the risk of oversimplification and hence of becoming uninspired (and ultimately uninteresting), instead functioned in a manner that was both en
Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World’s strange, playful investigation into the complexities of the mind was innovative, thought-provoking and, quite often, utterly charming.
The reason I’m not rating it any higher is, I believe, purely subjective: I wasn’t too keen on spending time in The End of the World, which is one of the two worlds that comprise the book.
I’m a Chandler fan myself, and I loved how Murakami creatively and mischievously interwove the strands of cynicism and witty one-liners into his bizarre, surreal wonderland.
Glass-eyed, marbled prison stare,Functionless form that with willWould coldly rend limb from limb.Toothy gates, e'er sealed againstWhat would gnash and tear, stronglyAflow with the crimson bloodOf a savaged savage god.Dooby, dooby, do.No exit, the maze.The jazz, it plays.Dress yes, no stays.Eat meat, greens graze.Tunnel-tied dust interludes abound.Fat girl wrangled.Grandpa mangled.Outside dangled.Inside strangled.Such are the days when the spring winds down.
A hard one to sum up: it's futuristic and surreal with two separate threads that eventually come together to make a cohesive whole.
With Murakami you're not always sure where it’s all going, but the journey's always an interesting one.If I were to liken it to anything I’ve read before it would be Man in the Dark, in that it’s all about the internal workings of the mind.
Not my favourite Murakami book but definitely one worth catching, particularly if you’re already a fan.
Of course, this is the case with any piece of fiction, but the chasms that we willingly cross with Murakami are a testament to his power as a writer - the power to draw one into the story, to fold the reading experience in with the story itself.That is not to say that the book is not without its flaws.
At a certain point - which I won't reveal - the two stories that comprise the book begin to meld into one, and yet the ending came as an utter surprise to me .
Murakami pays tribute to the unique style of those noir stories by placing his own Tokyo-Wonderland in that particular frame of reference.The story unfolds around a man who works for a non-governmental agency—the System—which, in the course of time, has acquired a quasi-official status.
However, reading between the lines of “Hard-boiled Wonderland and the End of the World" (written back in the early 80’s) the reader has the rare opportunity to follow the early attempts of a now-renowned author to enter the mystery.
At any rate, "Hard-boiled Wonderland and the End of World", though is written in a (seemingly) easy flowing language, turns out to be an intricate and multilevel novel.
Each time I read a Murakami novel, I realise just how much I love him.
By far my favourite author, I adore the lengths he goes to to describe everything in precise detail.
There is no other author who writes in such a beautiful way, sometimes you can go for pages and pages with nothing really happening but you read on as the writing is incredible.
Such a unique author.
I will never ever get tired of reading through his entire bibliography.
Japanese authors write in a completely different style to others, which I love.
The plot and narrative style of this book is like a combination of PKD’s reality bending shenanigan, Neil Gaiman’s whimsical characters and Murakami’s unique brand of whatever it is he is doing.
The book is structured as a dual narrative, one strand is set in Tokyo, probably in the 80s though the year is not mentioned, the other appears to be set in some kind of parallel fantasy world in a walled up town with unicorns.
The writing style, as far as I can tell from the excellent translation, is accessible yet unusual and sometime lyrical.It is a very hard book to review and describe due to its oddness, I almost feel like I dreamed the book rather than read it.
K. HarperTerminei..."O Impiedoso País das Maravilhas e o Fim do Mundo" é uma viagem fantástica a dois "mundos" e a duas narrativas que se desenvolvem em paralelo e em capítulos alternados, percorrendo cenários futuristas e fantasmagóricos, repletos de símbolos e simbologias.Uma escrita perfeita, límpida e poética, inventiva e alucinante, com múltiplas referências à música, à literatura, à filosofia, à ciência, ao cinema e a tudo o que a imaginação ilimitada do Haruki Murakami abrange.
Dois romances numa só obra literária imperdível que agrupa magistralmente inúmeras influências literárias que vão do romance "noir" à ficção científica e que se revela com uma autêntica surpresa, numa imaginação sem limites e visualmente deslumbrante."O Impiedoso País das Maravilhas e o Fim do Mundo", publicado originalmente em 1985, é provavelmente o melhor livro do Haruki Murakami (n.
STORY:Golden Beasts.
Calcutecs.
Dream-readers.
Breached encryption systems.
Consciousness.
Sentient Shadows.
Unconsciousness.
Scientists.
Libido.
Infra-nocturnal Kappas.
End of the World.
Is this making sense yet?<.........>WRITING STYLE:No?
That’s OK.
I didn’t think so either.
It’s guess it’s supposed to be bizarre and surreal.
I’ll certainly read more from him—if only to get that 'i-don't-know-what-exactly-im-reading-but-its-kinda-cool' high.ENJOYMENT FACTOR:I could go on a long treatise about the nature of consciousness and memory, but I’m too tired and I’d rather sum up the both the good and bad in three letters: WTF?!
OTHER OBSERVATIONS (The X Factor):I imagine the experience would be similar to snorting cocaine while drunk.
A story to remember. Murakami is a great storyteller. I thoroughly enjoyed his two parrallel narratives. He makes the unbelievable, believable. I don't even care that after finishing the novel, he leaves me with the feeling that I need to reread this book once (or twice) to fully understand and appreciate it.
La storia scorre su due binari , il primo mondo è il paese delle meraviglie che in realtà rappresenta la grande Tokyo.
Troviamo il protagonista, senza nome , che svolge la mansione di Cibermatico ed è a causa di questo lavoro che verrà coinvolto in una folle ricerca sottoterra.
Una corsa contro il tempo nella scoperta di se stesso e del mondo .
Personaggi come il Burbero guardiano , il colonnello in pensione, la bibliotecaria senza cuore e gli Unicorni .
Catalogare questo romanzo tra quelli “ comuni “ è praticamente impossibile, c’è sempre qualcosa che sfugge e che stimola il lettore a trascendere dai personaggi, insomma una fiaba tra il reale e l’irreale.
Most of the time Murakami hangs onto just enough plausibility and his brew shines and goes down smooth.
But this time he barely missed.
I rooted for him, out loud-Come on baby-you can do it-you're almost there-pull me into the story.
When a writer like him barely misses a lot of pieces shatter on the floor and it becomes work for me to paste them together to get that Murakami high or its resemblance.He remains one of my favorites.
Hey put that book back in its box.
You think its good.
Real good.
Forget the box just toss me the book.
Yeah you can come in.
Always time to talk books, talk Murakami.
One person will claim one novel completely turned him off Murakami, while others will point to that same novel as what drew them to Murakami in the first place.What I can really draw from all the debate is that you need to be in a certain mood and mindset to enjoy certain books by Murakami.
In my case with Hard-Boiled Wonderland and the End of the World, the meandering and dreamily emotional storyline hit the bulls eye for what I didn't know I needed.
Surprisingly, for the type of story it was, the story came full circle by the final page with many loose ends tied up.
E a lui si rivolge uno stravagante scienziato, che compie misteriosi studi sul suono.Diviso tra il Sistema (una organizzazione pseudo-governativa per cui lavora) e la Fabbrica (la sua misteriosa nemesi), si troverà coinvolto in qualcosa di molto più grande di lui.Ma la vicenda del Cibermatico non è la sola, perché, parallelamente, si svolge quella del Lettore di Sogni, secondo uno schema che Murakami padroneggia: la narrazione si snoda tra due filoni narrativi che si intrecciano tra loro, inizialmente senza alcuna possibilità di contatto, ma convergendo in realtà verso un punto comune.
مترجم در مقدمه کتاب می نویسد: داستان های موراکامی در عین اینکه بین واقعیت و ناواقعیت می لغزد، مرزهای سیال بین این دو را گسترش می دهد.
در این دنیای پرآشوب و سرشار از فجایع و شناعت، انسانیت وآزادی ورهایی را می جوید و ماهرانه بین خیال و واقعیت بندبازی می کند و سالم به زمین می رسدقسمتی از کتابکف زمین خاکی است و رطوبت اتاق توام با سرماست.
سایه ام بی حرکت تو تختخواب خوابیده و پتو را تا روی گوش هایش کشیده.
با چشم های بی رمق نگاهم می کند.
همان طور که سرهنگ گفته، از عمر سایه ام چیزی باقی نیست
This book contains (view spoiler)[47 erection references (hide spoiler)].Approximately.
