https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/945833.The_Age_of_Revolution
This book flows through history so seamlessly I had trouble imagining how it was even written. I get the impression Churchill sat down to write out some of his thoughts on history and out popped this amazing flow. It feels as if he is just telling us what he knows and it is amazing, as if the timeline of history just flows from his heart in almost day by day order. Simply wonderful. I am thrilled there is another volume ahead.
Of course the writing is amazing--it is Winston Churchill, after all! It was interesting to read about the American Revolution from the perspective of an Englishman. It is almost exclusively focused on the history of war. There is very little about social history, but i suppose that should be expected from Churchill. It also shows his very skewed view of England's atrocities against the many peoples and countries it invaded.
In this volume, the English speaking people on the other side of the Atlantic are woven into Churchill's masterly narrative.
The period is dominated by war and revolution - igniting what Sir Winston calls the first true world war.The history unfolds as a series of events - bloody battles with thousands of casualties, intercut with fundamental political issues that transform the way we are governed today.
Peter Hofschroer's Wellington's Smallest Victory, for example, casts the Duke in a rather different light.
Too good. I love Sir Winston.
Slightly disappointed that Jonathan Strange did not appear by the end to help defeat Napoleon but, oh well!
Churchill likes to focus on the American story, and the English wars with France that raged around the world during the period.
Churchill could have many reasons for this, such as helping to create a sort of 'Special Relationship' that he worked so hard for during WW2, but also because it is most accessible to English readers and it very interesting.
Were this another historian, I may take more of an issue with it, but I choose to read these because they are very helpful for introductions to histories and because they are fun to read, but also because Sir Winston Churchill wrote them.
Covers all the high points of the 18th century and then some, including the appointment of a minister who had such a large personality that he became known as the “prime” minister, Britain’s wars against Louis XIV on the European continent, which in turn spawned both the American Revolution (Americans were angered by Parliament’s clumsy efforts to recoup the cost of their European war) and the French Revolution (the French people were angered by the king’s clumsy efforts to recoup the cost of their European war), followed closely by Britain’s accidental conquest of India, the intentional conquests of Napoleon, and the British-Canadian-American War of 1812.
Nelson gets his due mention, along with Pitt and Marlborough, but Churchhill’s interest extends no further than commanding generals, so if there were other capable officers below Marlborough or Wellington, we will never hear about them here.
Covering the Reign of William of Orange, (William III and wife Mary who became Queen) College of William and Mary named after these two.
College to many of the early generation of America including Jefferson, Monroe, Tyler and Chief Justice John Marshall, through the continued wars in England highlighting the Duke of Marlborough (relation to Winston Churchill).
Curiously I found this volume a bit tiresome in parts, the writing is always stylish but lagged in areas.
Churchill’s broad history, which he began writing in the “wilderness years” of the 1930s and only finished in the 1950s, is the story of great leaders rising to the occassion when war or political crisis threatens.
Churchill takes a classical view of history reminiscent of Plutarch and Gibbon, but in this volume, which one senses he wrote after seeing Britain through the perils of World War II, the prose is crisp and the insights on leadership are gleaned from hard-won experience.
. In each case short-sighted opinions, agreeable to the party spirit, pernicious to national interests, banished all purpose from the State and prepared a deadly resumption of the main struggle.And as I suspected, desperately needing and thankful for the 20th-century support of his American allies, Churchill the politician treads gently on the American revolution, labeling it in a sly twist of wording essentially a revolution toward English manners and political morality!
I just finished reading The Age of Revolution by Winston Churchill.
A great book and a fine read that flows exceptionally well.
I especially enjoyed the English Revolution of 1688 which indirectly and then directly brought England in against Louis XIV.
The American revolution from a British perspective was interesting as well.
I found the French Revolution a bit lacking especially from an economic standpoint.
Perhaps that is the closet Marxist in me.....
Napoleon use of the French Revolution could have been stressed even more in terms of his initial success in spreading the tri-color over Europe.
Napoleon's defeat is well done.
The third volume of History of the English Speaking People's moves slower the its predecessors, and is the most devoted to British political history. The first half of the book is magnificent. That is due to the prominence of The Duke of Marlborough, Churchill's famous ancestor, and his prominence in the councils of Queen Anne. The latter half of the work is still good, but understandably jumps around from Britain to North America. Still, some of the pages are sublime. Churchill's treatment of the Pitts is especially noteworthy.
This was a fascinating read, covering a great swath of history. One of the most interesting aspects of this book, from this American's perspective, was WSC's viewpoint on the American Revolution. It did not adhere to the mythologizing version of history one learns in U.S. public schools, and presented a more human story in many ways. I also enjoyed learning in more detail about the War of the Spanish Succession, the details of which had previously been difficult for me to follow.
I love the glimpses into the personality of the politicians, generals, emperors, etc. that Churchill weaves into his narrative - something you don't get with a history textbook! I wish I'd read this before Les Mis, as those chapters about Waterloo would have been more understandable and interesting. Glad my kids will, thanks to AmblesideOnline!
Volume 3 of his magisterial "History of the English-Speaking Peoples" and another gem. Stunning insights, beautifully written, and a momentous century and a half - the age of revolution - deftly described and explained. It is difficult to describe how good this book really is - you need to read it and experience it for yourself to truly appreciate it.
Classic , some white-washing, especially Indian History
As with the other books, this is mainly the history of the wars of the English Speaking People.
I read this ages ago (1987 or 88?) but picked it up now to get a little background info to better understand the Hanoverians. It didn't really help with that, but was an interesting and well-written book. Churchill's writing isn't as moving as his speeches, but is very good. Will probably re-read the other 3 volumes of his A History of the English Speaking Peoples, 4 Vols.
Of course, in a British view of the Revolution, they couldn't credit the genius of Washington with actually winning the war, but it's fair enough said that much of Washington's success was due to luck and being in the right place at the right time.
But enough of my Yankee pride.The British didn't have much time to catch their breath after the Revolution, because the Yanks had apparently given the French some fancy ideas of their own.
I actually really enjoyed the British perspective on the War of 1812 - more so than on the Revolution, which I already know a fair bit about, being something of an American Revolution buff.
The 'glorious revolution' opens The Age of Revolution, an age which ended the long epoch of history-as-made-by-the-king and ushered in the modern dominance of parliaments, congresses, and diets.
(The long view of history aides objectivity; I doubt Churchill is so fair in his narrative of World War 2!) This is narrative history, a grand story driven by personalities like the the handsome, brilliant, dashing, gallant, honorable, endlessly clever Duke of Marlborough.
England was ready to fight but needed someone to provide the leadership and Churchill, the right man and the right time, provided it.
Not everything in history is covered only those things judged important by Churchill.
Also, the set is not the last word by Churchill as he continues the story in his four volume sets on WWI and WWII which I will read soon.
A volume of A History of English Speaking Peoples, this is an excellent history, beautifully written by a master of English history.
Churchill continued his fabulous History of the English Speaking Peoples with a tour de force of Marlborough, Walpole, and both the Pitts.
In my reviews of other volumes, I've waxed eloquent on how readable Churchill makes his stories and insights--this volume is no exception to that.Churchill covers his great ancestor Marlborough in detail (interesting to me since I think American audiences often cover English history up to Jamestown in 1607 and then skip ahead to 1776) and his campaigns on the continent of Europe against Louis XIV.

I find myself looking up events on Wikipedia to learn what Churchill is actually talking about, because he often assumes you already have a working knowledge of what he is talking about .
which is fine when he's talking about the American Revolution, but difficult to follow when he is talking about William Pitt the elder.Still, it is Churchills take on history, which is engaging reading.
A) I have a good working knowledge of the subject matter (which seems to be a pre-requisite to read his books) and B) He has a truly unique insider perspective of not just what happened, but what led to decisions that were made.
Fascinating survey of the years including the English Civil War, the American Revolution, and the French Revolution. Churchill uses language beautifully--I find myself stopping to re-read some particularly well-phrased sentence. My only complaints are his assuming we all know the people and events he breezes over, although that's more my problem than his, and his detailed descriptions of some battles. I came away with comprehension on the level of "the English and French fought here and the French won this battle." I didn't delight in the strategic positions and maneuvers of the troops as much as he did!
The first part of the book that talked about the British revolution around the turn of the 18th century did not really capture my interest.
The rest of the book focused on the American war of independence and the French revolution.
I felt like I got a more balanced view of the entire political situation of the Revolutionary war from this book that what I have been taught in school.
The parts I remember from my earlier history lessons were all about the tyranny and despotism of King George III.
It was really not that simple, that this book explains that point better to me.
Churchill's account of events in Anglo-American history from the English rise to glory in the Wars of the Spanish Succession to Napoleon's final defeat at the Battle of Waterloo. His style can be dry at times, but at others it can be downright inspiring: "The Constitution was a reaffirmation of faith in the principles painfully evolved over the centuries by the English-speaking peoples. It enshrined long-standing English ideas of justice and liberty, henceforth to be regarded on the other side of the Atlantic as basically American."
While the book does smack a bit of "what did Winston find interesting", it still stands as an outstanding tour de force of everything from the Spanish Succession to the Napoleonic War. Definitely worth a read for those who are looking for a high-level synthesis of Britain's (and, to a lesser degree, the young United States) domestic situation and how it impacted their foreign policies and military campaigns.
In his sweeping and grand manner, Churchill manages to convey history without bogging down in academic details and gives readers a pretty good impression about the times and politics of the revolutionary years of the 18th century. The world never looked back and much about what is happening today is so connected to these times. History students can do no better than to read these terse and exciting pages...
