https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1154126.Spring_Came_On_Forever
My late grandmother gave me this book when I was in high school with a brief note about her own grandparents who settled on the prairie. It is one of my most treasured books.
After reading A Lantern In Her Hand and absolutely adoring it, I was all afire to read more of Bess Streeter Aldrich's books.
Bess Streeter Aldrich's books are good, solid, hearty, old-fashioned literature.
I like that premise, because I love long sagas about families, but because of it the writing seemed kind of impersonal sometimes due to the fact that the story is being told on a grand scale, and so you miss lots of the individual characters' thoughts and doings.
Overall, it's a very good book and I liked it a lot.
Interesting that two books have made their way into my life lately dealing with homesteading, hardships, importance of nature and that community and family is the keystone for our lives.
We perhaps owe it to our families to record our own stories.In both novels, nature is a formidable character.
But its very robustness gave him a feeling of exuberance, that he could meet the obstacles which would confront him in the new town in the same way that he met the wild strength of the prairie."Oh, that we could each have this same optimism as we face the "obstacles of life".Good read.
I liked it very much but it took me a while to get engaged into the story.
It's the story of a young man who falls in love with a young woman but her extremely strict father would not allow her to see him because he had promised her to another man.
He followed but did not arrive in time to keep her from wedding her betrothed.
So the book follows both of their lives.
It has good story lines and well developed characters and a lovely ending.
However, even with all of that, I liked "Lantern.." better.
This book has an interesting premise - about a pioneering German woman who marries the wrong man.
The beginning moves really slow and the character development is mild, at best.
There is quite a bit of wonderful pioneer and Nebraska territory history that will keep you entertained in the middle of the book.
However, the end slows down to snail speed again like the beginning and you don't find yourself attached or really even that intimately interested in the outcome of the characters.
Unless you deeply love pioneering history or Nebraska territory history, I would suggest several other books in the same genre first.
This story is so beautiful.
I thought Bess Streeter Aldrich did a great job showing the different kinds of marriages that a person can find themselves in.
Amalia finds herself in a forced marriage to a verbally abusive man.
Matthias finds himself in a comfortable marriage with a good friend.
Emil's marriage is not detailed, but appears happy.
Joey marries the wrong person, but sticks with it.
And Neal marries the love of his life - and they know they are meant for each other as they went through a time wondering if they would see each other again.
This story also shows culture and generation clashes, something we can all learn from.
So at first I was really ticked off at how nothing worked out for the main characters--pretty outraged in fact.
But as I finished it, I wasn't as mad, because even though life wasn't easy for anyone, it asserted that life generally evens things out over the years and lots of lessons about what's important.
Anyway, it was actually a bit fascinating at the end how things worked out.
I had to tell my husband and sister all about it when I finished, because it stayed with me and I needed to share it I guess.
Pretty good stuff.
I enjoyed this sweet little book which really gave a good insight into those hard days of the prairie wives and their families.
I cannot imagine a life where I work from dawn to bedtime without stopping.
I am just lazy, I guess.
I so would not have been one of those people aching to go West (or to the New World or anyplace else where civilization had not arrived yet).
However I am aware that if my husband had wanted to go I would have had to follow.
Glad to live when I do and just read about those times.
I read this for book club because it had the word Spring in the title and the description in amazon seemed pretty good. I think the story itself is OK, the pace was way too slow for me, though. Things definitely didn't work out the way I wanted them too! The historical aspects of the novel were very interesting to me and seemed true to life. This aspect provided a lot to think about. Overall, this won't be considered one of my favorites, but it wasn't a waste of time.
First, I bought a used 1935 addition of this book, and I was surprised how nostalgic the whole experience was. The aged paper and the feel of it was a new experience. That being said. The book was an inspirational book about life. The book covered the gamut, from the predictable to the surprising to the unrealistic. In the end I was inspired and heartened from the running theme. That even after the hardships and trials of life Spring returns and with it a new beginning.
Since I can't make the time commitment to read an entire series, I relish these kinds of books that are a complete story. Though the story was a bit predictable at times, I enjoyed this book. As a 4th generation Nebraskan of German descent, it almost felt as if I was reading a little bit of my own history.
Love the book, sad love story, but great ending. this book was given to me by my mother-in-law and I finally got around to reading it. She knew that I liked other books by Bess Streeter Aldrich and that I was a history nut, so this was right up my alley. My father-in-law came from Nebraska and it was fun to read about it's history. I just order a few more of her books.
I learned a lot about what life was like in settling this great country of ours. Makes me appreciate what my great great grand parents lives must of been like. My fathers family is from the Linclon NB. Area.
This isn't a novel of my choice, but one assigned from my History class. It is quite funny how a sparked love come together when fate took them apart in the beginning. I craved for the reuniting of young Amalia and Mathias, but fate intervened. Quite interesting I might say...
White Bird Flying is my favorite Aldrich book still, but I enjoyed this one. I like the motif of the kettle and how that image is brought together at the end. I still enjoy a good western novel and I think Aldrich should have gotten just as much scholarly attention as Cather.
It had the beginnings of a great story, but with a very disappointing end for the main character. Not at all what I was expecting, but for some reason I can't get this book out of my head. it's kind of haunting.
Bess Streeter Aldrich writes pioneer life so well. I did not love this book as much as her book "A Lantern in Her Hand". It was not a page turner, but I always enjoy her description of the prairie in the 1800's.
What a heartbreaking yet beautiful book. I was swept up in the love story, nearly feeling every emotion the characters had. What a sad yet romantic story that definitely pulled hard on my heartstrings.
I read this book way back in HS and still remember it. Given that my memory is not what you would describe as 'sharp as a blade', this book clearly had an impact on me. Maybe it's time to re-read it.
It was really kind of sad...They should have married.
A beautiful love story.
Really enjoyed this book about nebraska being settled. spanned several generations. very clean, old timey writing. Piper wants to read it!
Another favorite! I have read this one several times.
These books always make me want to be a better person and a better mom. Just a nice story and nice characters.
I love Bess Streeter Aldrich!
Another lovely novel from Bess Streeter Aldrich. Sweet and sad. A personal favorite. June 28, 2016 -- I have just finished re-reading this, it has held up well.
I loved this pioneer/turn of the century novel about two families in Nebraska. It didn't do what I thought it was going to do.
The love story is a bit of a downer, but it was interesting to read about Germans that settled in Nebraska during the 1870's.
Very good book
Sequel to "A Lantern In Her Hand", this reminded me of the Laura Ingalls Wilder books, but the adult version. Very Good.
