https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828299.The_Call_of_the_Canyon
It fits the following bingo squares:Key to My Heart: (view spoiler)[Because the MC has a complete change of heart once she embraces her lover’s philosophy and way of life.
Although it was actually a contemporary romance at the time it was written, so maybe not.Second Chances: (view spoiler)[She rejects his way of life and breaks the engagement, then goes running back after her change of heart, hoping that he hasn’t already married another.
The character I expected to be a ridiculous over-sophisticated foil to show off the virtues of the West is realistically assertive of the value of her current identity and yet also shows compelling willingness to grow and change.
Her hope to try to put back together romance when both she and the object of her desire have been changed so much by the world around them is compelling, and the fact that it happened in the macho context of a Western gives respectability for a male reader to be interested in this emotional journey.
Although the descriptions of nature are quite poetic, evoking vivid images of the wild-west and its terrain; yet I found the story-line to be a little problematic.
However, in spite of being a little decrepit and nondescript, surprisingly it has been made into at least two movies.
I will definitely read more westerns, but will think twice before picking a Zane Grey.
At times it appeared to me that the author is trying really hard to force his personal opinions through his characters, specially the sections where Carley (the female protagonist) is ranting and brooding ceaselessly.
Westerns have their fair share of space on my favorites shelf... In addition, two of Zane Grey's other works even have their own place on the list of my heart-stories, and I think The Call of the Canyon, may just have joined them there.My full review can be read here. SPOILER ALERT: I LOVED THIS STORY SO MUCH, and I had a great deal of fun with the pictures. :)
It is 1919 and Carley Burch is a young orphaned woman who lives a socialite’s life of ease and pleasure in her New York City family home with her aunt Mary.
Her fiancé Glenn Kilbourne has come home an injured, sick, and broken man after fighting in France during World War I, so he has gone West to Arizona, near Flagstaff, that he might recover his health.
Carley, while she loves the West, thinks that she can never be the wife of a simple hog farmer, so she breaks their engagement and returns to New York.
We quickly learned that Sedona's fame owes a lot to Zane Grey's book, The Call of the Canyon.
It is always interesting reading a book at the place where the setting is.Grey's description of the area around the Canyon was spot on and I enjoyed comparing the book descriptions with the hike we took up the West Fork of Oak Creek.
Also he spoke a lot about the social life and values of the New York upper class, particularly in comparison with the life lived in Arizona.All in all, it was an enjoyable book, particularly since we are in the area.
Will I read more of Grey's books?
Different Zane GreyAs a young teenager - late 50's - I read everything I got my hands on.
Never read this one though and found it somewhat different but mostly enjoyable.
The descriptions of the landscape in Arizona are beautiful and in great detail but I will confess I grew impatient at times and skimmed over them, anxious to find out what happened next in the love story.
Grey's descriptions of the woman in Carley's social group may have been accurate but certainly did not apply to ALL or even most woman of that time.
I do intend to read more Zane Grey.
I found the book extremely relatable at many, many places. The author has such a gift for painting landscapes, that all my senses seemed to respond to his descriptions. I did not like many of his views, or rather, how he thinks they're the 'supreme truth' or whatever. This fact made the book a little annoying in the latter part.I would recommend this book for the author's insight in human relationships and feelings, and his skilled penmanship; and not for the storyline or for his philosophy of life. I would give it a 3.5/5.
ShariC's review sums it up nicely: "The best parts of this book are the beautifully detailed descriptions of the landscape and the characters’ interactions with it. The story itself is problematic" -- particularly if you're a woman. Grey turns himself inside out to change Carley into a different person, without somehow ever making her a real person who lives on the page -- and her fiancé is pretty flat, too. Which is probably exemplified by the fact that I can't remember his name. It's never exactly clear what she finds so compelling about him.
In his distinctive romantic style the author has a disillusioned Civil War veteran moving from New York to the untamed landscape of Arizona where he will face new challenges.
Librivox edition
His determination to return home to his fiancé, New York socialite Carley Burch, gave him strength during the darker times of war.
Yet he found that the country he had fought for did little for its returning soldiers, and the life he lived before the war no longer appealed to him.Glenn set out for the West; he needed time to heal.
But she too discovered the magic and beauty of the Arizona land.I read about this book in another one called Trusting The Currents.
The author’s story of Glenn and Carley highlighted the effect the land can have on people.
I really enjoyed this story about a self-involved socialite who took off for Arizona to visit her fiancé to try to convince him to move back to New York City.
But even though she discovered many deep traits about herself, she just could not envision herself the wife of a hog farmer, far away from the glitter and leisure of New York City, so she broke off the engagement when he would not return with her.
She couldn't stand it for more than a few months, and so took the long train out West again, to surprise her ex-fiancé, but discovered a bombshell revelation awaiting her.
When he decides to 'go West' for his health, she is very supportive.They correspond an enjoyable period (which is mentioned in detail several times and later becomes a plot hinge, being something that they both enjoyed and kept them close) but finally Carly finds she doesn't understand the hints of Glenn's changing thoughts about them.
He's hoped that she would be 'big enough' to live there with him, but he understands she is not.Wow.Cue death of romance?Carly does the right thing, she 'sets Glenn free' and returns his ring.
A prerequisite is a passion for the American SouthwestI first went west from Detroit in 1975. My comments on my return were that everything looked dry, red and dead and you couldn't tell the people from the rocks. My next visit was 1991 and my wife and I returned every year for the next 19 years. Disability has kept me from returning. This book brought back every memory of those trips and several sub-stories to boot. Don't miss a chance to read this. It's free. Which Carlyle are you?
to give a ZANE GREY book only 2 stars is something that has not happened many times for me . actually this was a one star work in many parts where I felt like ZANE was preaching such nonsense about morals that I wanted to throw the book down. I have read over 25 of his books and this was nothing like any of the others where the characters were concerned . He was his usual greatness when it came to describing the western landscape. I felt like he had written this to please his long gone Sunday school teacher.
A great read for lovers of the Red Rock country near SedonaThis story by the great writer of Westerns kept me enthralled until the last page. The descriptions of the area are wonderful. The growth in the heroine Carley is exciting. It's an old fashioned romance in the best sense of the word. But I think the story's greatest strength is the love of country (USA and the Red Rock area of Arizona. in particular), and the belief in the importance of women that shines through.
Parts of it are very good and I kind of liked Carley's development in the sense that she did what she liked best but most is very dated, the picture painted of women is sexist and insulting to be honest and so is the view of society. I don't like romance novels anyway but there were time where I was tempted to get physically sick. Waste of time, unfortunately I stuck with it until the bitter end.
Back when the West was a place rather than a time. The story of a New York woman who finds out the World War One has made her fiance want to run a hog ranch in Arizona, sandwiched between a love letter to Oak Creek Canyon, and a rant against the modern world. Nary a gunshot is fired.
An antique book dealer sold me this book, after finding out that I was an Arizona Native. I enjoyed it, although I had a good chuckle at some of the ultra conservative ideas & idiotic women. Obviously written by a man of those times :)
Although I love Zane Grey's books, this was not my favorite. There is not much action and he describes the battle for the soul of modern man more effectively in "The Shepherd of Guadaloupe" and "Majesty's Rancho."
A wonderful Western storyThis is a classic Zane Grey book, he did not disappoint. This was certiany well worth reading this western and the ending was a nice surprise.
For fiction genre class - Western (audio)
I have only recently discovered the novels of Zane Gray. I enjoyed this one very much. It's a thoughtful book about finding what is really important in life. I truly love a moral book.
This is a book about a WW1 veteran who returns from the war with shell shock (Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome) and becomes disgusted with the way society treats veterans (WW1 vets were treated like Vietnam vets were.
That part of the story, vets handling how the country treated them was good.
The book is set in 1921, but, it could have been set in 1981 when films like "The Wilderness Family" and TV like "Little House on the Prairie" were popular.
It was a good read, and I am not going to spoil it for anyone by telling them the ending.
That idea deserves scorn, for there are many ways to have a worthwhile and fulfilling life that are not the one way promoted by this book.6) It is difficult to imagine who could like this book other than tasteless Zane Grey fans, family value Republicans, bigoted "American First"ers of both the Charles Lindbergh and Donald Trump school, and Ayn Rand fans, for the values espoused in this lecture encompasses them all.
I hated this fucking book; I hate fucking Zane Grey, and I hate anybody who regards this book with anything other than the scorn it deserves.
Escape into the depths of northern Arizona's canyons where realities change and spirits are healed.In the wake of the Great War Carley Burch finds herself dreaming of wedding bells and city life with her fiance, Glenn, in the wonderful metropolis of New York City.
Searching for meaning to his life and to his experiences in the war, Glenn leaves New York for the dusty, untamed lands of Arizona.
Can Carley convince him to come home or will Glenn be able to show her why she needs to stay?This was my introduction to Zane Grey, one which started a long lasting love affair of westerns.
The part of the story that I didn't enjoy was that a lot of the time it seemed the author was trying to say the only way to be a good person was to be a cowboy.
Having encountered (and fought against) this ideology for several years while living in a small farming and ranching community, I resented the idea that having grown up in a city, I did not know how to work.
In Zane's defense, he did say toward the end that you didn't HAVE to be a cowboy/farmer to be a good person.
I LOVE Zane Grey because I discovered him in middle school and read him voraciously when I was just coming of age, and therefore was deeply affected by the Wild West, in particular the one which Grey created.
So, for this month's book club I chose this particular novel because it's setting and characters would appeal to my New York audience.
This particular novel begins in uptown Manhattan and follows Carly, a New York socialite, to Cottonwood Canyon, AZ.
In the end, I was the only one to read the book, but we still had a fantastic discussion about veterans, womanhood/motherhood, and modesty in dress.
Carly, a New York socialite's fiance returns from the war (WWI) broken and a shadow of his former self.
Carly finally decides to go to Arizona with the intentions of bring Glen back to New York.
Carly is challenged by the lack of convenience and physical comforts she left in New York.
As the weeks pass, Carly adjusts to life in Arizona.
When Carly finally confronts Glen about returning to New York, Glen tells her he has no intention of going back to New York to live-his life is in Arizona.
She returns to New York.
Can Carly find a new life for herself?
