https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77609.The_League_of_Frightened_Men
Pestered by Archie Goodwin who is a man of action and cannot stand the prolonged absence of it, the great New York detective decides to take a case he rejected some time ago, only this time he chooses to involve more people as his clients: a group of people known as The League of Frightened Men thorough the book.Initially the mystery part seems to be completely missing as the culprit is known in advance and around 75% of the book it is more about character interactions which are always great in Nero Wolfe's books.
4.5 stars.Not quite there yet as Stout is still working on things. Cramer makes his first visit to the brownstone smoking a pipe and calling Archie "sonny". Later when Archie visits Cramer at his office Cramer is finally working a cigar. The more irritating version of Cramer hasn't jelled yet.Lon Cohen at the Gazette hasn't appeared yet. Lily Rowan doesn't show up until book 6.Good solid mystery. I had one element figured out but was off on the rest.
3.5 starsI read almost every Nero Wolfe book when I was younger and I still enjoy going back and reading them on occasion although they may not have the same attraction that they once did.
The Nero Wolfe books were written between 1934 - 1975 and this was the second book in the series.
Essentially his job is to remove their fear.As mentioned this is the second book in the series and having read most of the others it seems going back to this one that the characters may not be as fully developed as I have come to know them.
Recommend to anyone who enjoys classic mystery stories.
The former classmate was crippled in a hazing incident in college and the group of men has been haunted by it every since.
They assemble at Wolfe's house to explain their plight and ask Wolfe for his help.Wolfe takes the job, assigning each group member a dollar amount they will pay if he is successful.
Of course we have the assembling of the entire group at the end of the book where Wolfe explains his deductions about the deaths and the missing group member and defends his success in order to be paid.
There were a couple of references in The Red Box to earlier cases, one of which I knew was one I'd read.
There were references to earlier cases in this one, too, but I laughed (even at myself) for knowing Stout had not yet written about them and was just making up Wolfe's history of genius as he could.This one starts out with no case and Archie itching for something to do.
It was also obvious that Wolfe knew at least 100 pages earlier, but needed proof.
But I did find this book, The League of Frightened Men, his second book, originally published in 1935.From being someone who enjoyed my first experience of the great detective, Nero Wolfe, I now find my self an unabashed fan.
This book was excellent, a fascinating, entertaining, great mystery.
Nero Wolfe and his partner, Archie Goodwin are a great team and both interesting in their own rights.
Wolfe is an oversize detective, basically housebound, whose life, while he works to solve mysteries, is quite regimented.
Great story and now I will have to read the whole series.
An excellent story and mystery.
This is arguably the first Nero Wolfe novel and probably the best. The author Rex Stout thought so himself. Across 47 Wolfe novels and anthologies, Stout kept up a remarkable quality, especially as he never edited a word. His later novels might be accused of digression, twittering dialogue that went nowhere, and loose structure. (Robert Heinlein exhibited the same faults in his dotage.) But this is ingenious, crisp and as sharply crafted as an Aztec crystal skull. No point in reviewing the plot. Read the story! If you've never read Nero Wolfe before, you'll join a global club of addicts.
Stout, Rex. THE LEAGUE OF FRIGHTENED MEN. (1935). **. I’m usually an enthusiastic fan of Stout’s Nero Wolfe mysteries, but this one challenged my enthusiasm. The middle part of the novel was incredibly boring and drawn out. Here goes: A group of men visit Nero Wolfe’s offices and explain that they want him to take on a case of a rampant murderer and bringing him to justice. Until that was accomplished, they lived in fear of their lives. It seems that when these men – all of them Harvard graduate
Here goes: A group of men visit Nero Wolfe’s offices and explain that they want him to take on a case of a rampant murderer and bringing him to justice.
Wolfe agrees to take up their case after carefully drafting a business agreement that allots different payments from each of the members after he has succeeded, from each according to his capability.
Since the members of the group agreed that there was no need to track down the known killer, they insisted instead that Wolfe accumulate proof that the killer was indeed the killer.
College hijinks lead to the lifelong crippling of a young man.
Those who felt responsible for the terrible accident banded together to do all they could to make amends for their foolishness to that man, who as the years have passed has become a successful author.One by one, members of the group, or league, are found dead under suspicious circumstances.
To make matters worse for the league, each of them has received anonymous lines of verse taking credit for each death in turn and intimating that anyone could be next.Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin have their work cut out for them as they try to put the pieces together, hopefully before any more deaths can occur.This story is one heck of a ride, so hold onto your hat and enjoy the ride.
Second installment in the Nero Wolfe detective series.Thirty years ago a club of Harvard upperclassmen gathered together and inadvertently maimed an unsuspecting freshman in a hazing incident on old Harvard yard.
To do his yeoman's work Nero sends out his personal assistant, and the narrator of the story, Archie Goodwin.
Outside of knowing that Archie narrates the story and what I told you in the third paragraph, there isn't much I can say besides what I thought about the book.I liked it.
Which I'm beginning to think could be my way of reading.
No, what I loved was how absorbing the language and dialogue is.
I think Stout tightened things up in later books, and that's good.
But this early story has something later ones are missing; a love not only of language, but of thinking about language.
Which is a love I share.
In this book, several people just wax on philosophically about this or that, and it made me want to live in a world where that was a perfectly ordinary thing to do.
I've read that Rex Stout wrote all his books straight through and turned them in without editing.
Definitely earns the praise it gets for being an involved, psychology-filled story. A lot of the details are either too obscure or intricate for me to follow. That's okay with me - I read for entertainment, trusting that detectives and cops and heroes in stories are capable and skilled. They don't need me back-checking their work. Anyway, Archie is great. Nero is great. And I have sympathy for Fritz. And Nero makes beer sound so good. Overall, a character-driven story with lots of misdirections and Wolfe playing cards close to his chest. For everyone to enjoy.
This episode of the Nero Wolfe Mysteries find Nero and Archie investigating an apparent murder at a Harvard Reunion. Thrity years before, the friends talk Paul Chapin (now a famous author) into doing something dangerous, it all goes wrong and Paul is left crippled. Back in the present of the 1930's, the friends begin to die in suspicious ways followed by murder notes to the survivors. Is it Paul taking revenge or is it a set-up? Only Wolfe and Archie can uncover the truth!
Excellent second novel in the Nero Wolfe mystery series. This one features a group of Harvard grads, one of whom was injured in a hazing incident instigated by the others. Twenty five years later, people in this group begin to die in horrible ways. Nero and his employee Archie Goodwin are on the case.
This is my second time through the Nero Wolfe oeuvre and I am definitely enjoying it. I can never figure out whodunit but the solution is always logical. In each of the first two books, there's a twist at the end; it will be interesting to see if that continues. Plus in this one, Wolfe leaves the house!!
I enjoy these characters and the pre-television style of writing.
Good, old fashioned detective novel, but I'd forgotten that Rex Stout is VERY tough to ready. I spent most of my time looking up 10 letter words. Classic though...I may have to read more...later.
I found the narrator character very amusing. I will probably read more from this series.
in nero wolfe's case this actually felt like something of an improvement: he comes off here as more generous, and more fallible; his later vocal dislike of women is also entirely absent, allowing for some engaging interactions that are almost impossible to imagine happening in later books.
what the heck??!?!) i think rex stout must have realized that early archie goodwin was too much of a caricature - the "wisecrackin' street tough" characterization gets smoothed out into something more sophisticated and memorable in later books, and thank goodness.
(hide spoiler)] wolfe's amazing parting salvo at the very end of the novel could most likely only have been possible with early-era archie goodwin, too.
Anteriormente, num post aqui publicado sobre o livro "Tempo de Espionagem" de Agatha Christie", falei sobre uma das escritoras de policiais mais conhecidas e conceituadas, e após finalizar esta leitura creio ter encontrado um autor com a capacidade de lhe fazer frente.
Rex Stout é portador de uma escrita espantosa e possui a capacidade extraordinária de engendrar um bom enredo, como foi o caso de "A Liga dos Homens Assustados".Nos anos 30, o autor criou um dos personagens que faria parte de 46 dos mais de 70 romances policiais por si escritos.
Pelokkaitten miesten liitto on ahdettu täyteen henkilöhahmoja.
Ilmeisesti sama ongelma koskee muitakin Rex Stoutin varhaiskauden teoksia.
Oli miten oli, kirjan tapahtumien lähtökohta on kaukana menneisyydessä.
Paul Chapin oli loukkaantunut vaikeasti onnettomuudessa, johon syypäänä voitiin osittain pitää hänen opiskelukavereitaan.
Vuodet vierivät, mutta vammat jäävät pysyviksi.Yhtäkkiä opiskelukavereita alkaa kuolla hämärissä olosuhteissa.
Lopulta Andrew Hibbardin katoaminen saa veljentyttären ottamaan yhteyttä etsivä Nero Wolfeen, joka alkaa tutkia tapausta sen, minkä ehtii herkuttelun ja orkideankasvatuksen lomassa.Pelokkaitten miesten liiton jäsenet, joiksi entisiä opiskelukavereita kutsutaan, saavat nimettömiä runoja, jotka voidaan tulkita tunnustukseksi tai uhkaukseksi.
Epäilyt kohdistuvat pian Paul Chapiniin, ja Nero Wolfella ja Archie Goodwinilla on visainen ongelma ratkaistavana.
This was even better than the first book.
I continue to enjoy the banter between Wolfe and Archie, and the mystery was pretty interesting.The story is set in New York City in 1935.
A man who was crippled many years ago during a hazing incident at Harvard is suspected of taking his revenge on the group of men who participated - despite the fact that they have formed a “League of Atonement” and provided their victim with financial and emotional support over the years.I was struck by the viciousness directed at the man because of his disability - he walks slowly with a cane.
Another magnificent adventure of Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin: this time, Wolfe has to relinquish his comfort to help Archie when he is drugged and kept in a strange house...As usual, Nero Wolfe's intellectual capacities are at his best, solving all the intertwined plots that turn this book into a real masterpiece! Definitely an excellent read!!!!Maria Carmo,Lisbon 6 February 2017
This is the second book in the series, and compared to the first, it's definitely more of what I think of as a typical Nero Wolfe book, but it is not all that fun to read.
We are still deep in overt, awful racism territory, plus some deeply gross ableism that included (among many other things) the idea that physical disabilities lead to psychopathy AND an derogatory epithet I've never heard outside this book.
Just, wow.This reread is REALLY driving home to me how much beginning at the beginning is a terrible idea with the Wolfe series.
Read the best ones first!
Well, this is #2 in the Nero Wolfe Canon, and I've read it. It is a really good book, and I can just picture Timothy Hutton and Maury Chakin playing this - it would have been great! A&E really did something stupid when they canceled the Nero Wolfe series. It's a fun book with a complicated plot involving a group of men frightened by a potential death threat. Unraveling the threat and exposing the person threatening them is a task only Nero Wolfe and Archie Goodwin can do.
The second in the Nero Wolfe series, and typically good. Archie Goodwin is still basically a tough guy (later he will become much smarter), and Wolfe even repeatedly makes fun of his inability to keep up with the subtleties of what's going on. I like the later books somewhat better, after Archie becomes more of an equal partner.
I read a 1968 edition complete with the colorfully offensive slang of the 30's when this was originally published. Maybe it was because of that,or maybe because it was so early in Stout's career, but this one seemed harsher.
The first Nero Wolfe mystery I ever read and still my favorite. The Drugged!Archie part makes me squee so much you can probably hear it at the South Pole.
Working my way through Rex Stout's Nero Wolfe's series - they are just fun reads in the genre of Dashiell Hammett.
Though the character is set up as a really great villain, you kind of root for him a little since people call him things like "a lop" (lopsided - lame).
What it does have going for it is a ripping good mystery with some bizarre turns and a large cast of interesting characters.My favorite quotes:Wolfe: There are so many methods available for killing a fellow-being!
Consider: with the quarry within reach, the purpose fixed, and the weapon in hand, it will often require up to eight or ten minutes to kill a fly, whereas the average murder, I would guess, consumes ten or fifteen seconds at the outside.
