https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2861159-cedric-the-forester
This is the kind of fast-paced excellent writing I expected from the much-adulated G.A. Henty; why is this book not better known?
XD Every time I thought I'd figured out what the main story arc might be, it was wrapped up in the chapter and another one introduced.The research isn't the best, though; I'm pretty sure crossbows - a major plot fulcrum - don't work that way, and I'd've sworn the book was set in the 15th century till most of the way through.
(Turns out it's set before 1215.) For me, the excellent writing made up for that.
Oh my goodness. I have finally stumbled across the word "whelmed" in a book. I have joked, like many, that in English we can be overwhelmed and underwhelmed, but I have not come across "whelmed", until this book:"Soon the defenders of the pass were whelmed with a cloud of arrows and quarrels."
While the language would be a struggle for younger readers, and it took me a few chapters to settle into the time period, I enjoyed this story of the Middle Ages. It was episodic, making it easy to read in small pieces, but full of action. The time period really came to life, as did the reasoning behind the Magna Carta, which is drafted in the final chapter. I wish I knew British history a bit better, as I got a bit muddled with the changings of the kings.
This is basically a series of adventures over the years by the two main characters. It was a bit difficult to get used to the Old English used in this book as some words were hard to decipher. It ended with a nice historical tie in to the Magna Carta and the role of Cedric in its creation. I’d recommend it to 12 and over due to the language challenge.
Not bad for a classic. Kind of like Ivanhoe or Robin Hood. Sometimes a bit too violent in spots. And the connection to the Magna Carta kind of snuck up on me.
This is a fun tale told by a young Norman nobleman, Richard Mountjoy, and set in England during the early Middle Ages.
He tells his story via the story of a young Saxon freeman, Cedric of Pelham Woods, a forester who proves himself the equal of any Norman.
There are battles and sieges galore.
This is one of the forgotten Newbery Honor books - probably due to the difficulty of the prose which is deliberately archaic - and that's a real shame.
I read this for my Newbery Challenge (Honor book 1922) and my 2017 Reading Challenge.
This is a 1922 Newbery Honor Book about the signing of the Magna Carta.
I would have liked a more concrete world built around historical details.
We learn very little about the real historical figures who step into the plot.
And the story didn't hook me until I approached the end of the book, when I realized that the plot led to the signing of the Magna Carta.
It felt like the signing of the Magna Carta was thrown in at the last minute to keep this from being just another fantasy story about the Middle Ages.
Narrated by Cedric's comrade-in-arms, Richard of Mountjoy, this book tells the story of the title character, a brave and valiant youth.
Cedric shows time and again his noble ways and bravery; he often fights for the rights of the common people, going against powerful leaders and friends in the process.It kind of reminded me of something like Robin Hood, and I liked that the characters were young.
I'd read it if you can find a copy, it's a nice story and a Newbery honor book from 1922, the first year they gave out the award; plus it's super-hard to find.
The format is also similar with each chapter being it's own "adventure" so that the book reads like a book of short stories than a novel (much like Robin Hood.It is told from the viewpoint of Dickon, the son of Mountjoy.
The book opens with an attack on the Mountjoy estate by the house of Carleton.
Soon after, Dickon meets the son of Carleton in the forest and is saved from certain death by Cedric, a forester and expert with a crossbow.
The two become fast friends and have many adventures together.As this is an older book, it is available completely free from Project Gutenberg if you are having issues locating it.
For the most part, I really enjoyed the book.
Based on the title, I was surprised that Cedric didn't even make an appearance until the 2nd chapter, and that he wasn't really the main character of the book.
Where the book really bothered me historically was in the last chapter on the writing of the Magna Charta.
I wasn't really fond of the way it was done...it seemed to change history too much.
I love a good historical novel, but not one that tries to change history.
This book was pretty easy read with enough ongoing adventure to keep things moving at a decent pace.
Also, it had the word whelmed, which I don’t believe I’ve seen in a book before, so that was exciting.
(My childhood was built on the wisdom of the movie 10 Things I Hate About You, in which there is a very deep conversation about being "whelmed", so I've been primed for years.) Naively, I did not expect all the events to be leading up to (view spoiler)[ the signing of the Magna Carta.
Another early Newbery Honor that didn't look like much at first (my ILL copy was in two pieces!) but was really rather a good piece.
I can't think of a single child I would recommend it to today, because although it is full of action (plenty of people die, and in every chapter, too!), the narrative is rather old-fashioned.
It fits the story, but probably would not recommend itself well to many of today's children.
Because it has never been reprinted, however, that is rather a moot point as very few people will probably go to the trouble to get their hands on one of the few circulating copies.
It's full of adventure which is not usually my favorite, but this book was made up of more of a series of adventures and the way the author wrote made me care about the characters who were being rescued and who were doing the rescuing.
This was a 1922 Newberry Honor book, and it is one of my favorites of the 1922 honor books.
The language is fairly complex and the dialogue is written to mimic the language of the knights and squires of the time so I think it would be tricky for younger readers.
However I think it would be a fun read out loud with Davey!
As I was reading the book I kept thinking that this story takes place so long ago that the likelihood of such a person rising to the power he attained is too low and that his thoughts and politics were way ahead of his time. Then at the end I realized this book really is about someone real who was one in a million - and whose ideas and politics really were way ahead of his time.
Newbery Honor Book 1922
Swords, cross-bows, and, eventually, jingoism. A suitable early Newbery honor book: adventure with a patriotic message.
1f32f577-a1f0-4e69-88a2-c1acd0256ba0
Not a bad story, just not really my thing - knights, sieges etc.
3.5
The style of the prose is a bit hard to get into and makes for slightly more difficult reading.
