https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2625927-miss-ranskill-comes-home
Published in 1946, under her married name, Barbara Bower.Description: Tells the tale of a woman who goes on a cruise and is swept overboard.
She lives for three years on a desert island before being rescued by a destroyer in 1943.
The grave was nearly deep enough.
It would have to be deep enough because for two hours now she had been fighting the shale.If anyone remembers Barbara Euphan Todd, it is probably for her stories about Worzel Gummidge, which were made into a TV series starring Jon Pertwee, and Una Stubbs as Aunt Sally.
Barbara Euphan Todd is well-known for her series of children's books about Worzel Gummidge, a talking scarecrow (I've never read any, but I'd heard of them), but much less known for Miss Ranskill Comes Home, her only adult novel, which I read in a lovely Persephone edition.
The book opens with a shock: Miss Ranskill, marooned on a desert island for years with only the Carpenter for company (the man, also marooned, already on the island when she washed ashore), now must bury her only friend, who died suddenly.
It's an odd but wonderful book, one of the best Persephones I've read.
Miss Ranskill Comes Home is the story of Nona Ranskill, younger sister of Edith, who is swept overboard on an ocean cruise shortly before the outbreak of WW2.
After four long years, she comes back to find her home irrevocably and inexplicably changed by the war.
Even the language was secret from her, full of strange words and alphabetical sequences."The contrast between Miss Ranskill's fantastical stranding and rescue by destroyer and the realities of the country to which she returns drive the satire that drives the book.
Miss Ranskill Comes Home is a brilliant blend of fantastical happenings and real-world satire with heart and poignant hope.
Enjoyable, funny and interesting, although a bit slow in parts.
4 Stars. Delightful and poignant. An absolute gem.
I have to say, Miss Ranskill's reaction to much of the British home-front attitude toward WW2 was exactly opposite to anything else I've ever read or understood.
I mean, here is this woman who has just spent years just trying to survive, trying to keep warm and fed and endure until rescue or escape is possible, and she gets home right in the middle of a war.
(Which is not to say that this didn't happen during the war, but Miss Ranskill saw the negative in sharp contrast because of her recent island experience - and got cranky about it.)There were so many stand-out moments, I couldn't possibly get them all in.

Miss Ranskill comes home to a totally different world than the one she last saw. War coupons, rationing, blackout curtains, German bombers overhead! What a world she’s come back to. Excellent story. I loved her fiesty spirit, but wanted to throttle many of her aquaintances, friends and family.
What a wonderful way to start the new year!
I've had this book on my shelf for years and I always thought it would be a somewhat cozy read about Britain's home front during the war.
It's not giving anything away to say that Miss Ranskill makes her way home from that island but everything has changed.
As she struggles to make her way in this strange new world we also get to see the villagers from her fresh eyes.
I longed to take Miss Ranskill in and protect her from her well-meaning friends and sister.
The only similarity between this book and that movie is the return of a woman who has been missing for several years and presumed dead.
She washes up on an island where another castaway has been surviving, the Carpenter.
Together, over the course of 3 1/2 years they build a boat to escape the island.
She returns to an England that is as foreign to her as the island was at first.
The story chronicles her return to a land where she barely understands the language: coupons, rations, acronyms, etc.
loved this satirical book, Barbara Euphon Todd uses the story of middle aged woman arriving back to a Britain at war, after almost four years on a desert island - to take a wry look at wartime regulations,and the English class system.
At the same time she is mourning the carpenter the man she shared the desert island with - and whose family she eagerly looks up as soon as she can, and is saddened when they don't live up to her expectations.
3.5 starsStuck on a desert island for four years, this book follows Miss Ranskill's life upon her return home. My only quibble is I had a lot of questions about her life on the island that went unanswered.
Returning to England after almost four years, Miss Ranskill discovers that it's not the England she left behind: in her absence, World War II has begun..This may all sound very far-fetched, but Todd actually makes it seem believable.
His optimism and words of wisdom had helped to sustain Miss Ranskill during her time on the island and continue to give her comfort on her return to wartime Britain.However, the years on the island and the company of the Carpenter have given her a new outlook on life and she finds it difficult to adjust.
Forty-year-old Englishwoman Nona Ranskill was washed up on a desert island just before the outbreak of World War II.
She returns to England four years later, haunted by memories of the man who platonically shared the island with her and completely unprepared for the bombs, rationing and disruption that she finds in England.This is a strange and haunting book.
I loved the premise and the characters but sometimes I was suprised by what the author chose to tell or not tell.
But a great book all the same.
A clever satire from the author of the Worzel Gummidge children's books that I used to love so much. Barbara Euphan Todd gives a very original, comical view of society during WWII, with all those "do-gooders". It is, in fact, a story with more depth than it seems at first; a study of wartime relationships, regulations and the class system, related with great wit. What a shame she only wrote one novel for adults.
Funny, sad and ironic. Might just be my favorite Persephone re-print yet.
Miss Ranskill Comes Home begins interestingly enough with the lead character, Nona Ranskill burying the body of the only other occupant of a desert island, and then using his boat to escape.
Instead this is a novel about the week or so following Miss Ranskill’s return to wartime England, and the adjustments one must make after being presumed dead for years.
Returned to her sister and friends Nona finally reckons with her relationship with the carpenter and the effect her desert island era has had on her ability to ever recapture her pre-island life.
Miss Ranskill fell of a cruise ship before the war and survived on a desert island with an elderly ships carpenter.
Afterall careless talk costs lives, MR tries to buy clothes - she can't no coupons, tidy up her hair and make up ie hide her tan, eat - again no coupons and is eventually chased through the town as a spy!
This very polite lady tries to get home, she can't its in a restricted zone; learns about air raids; gets her identity back, and her bank balance, and gets coupons, finds her sister, finds the ships carpenter's family and generally manages to beautifully survive on another hostile, foreign island.

I loved the beginning of this book where Miss Ranskill describes life with the carpenter on the island. I loved the description of how they would take each other to the movies by describing scenes to each other and what they would do when they were home. I would have really enjoyed more about their island life. I found the confusion of the return went on slightly but I think the way Miss Ranskill changed and the way she had different values after her experience was well thought out. The end was heart warming and reminiscent of Six Bad Boys.
I would re-read this book in a second. I had thought it would be a light read about a woman returning after four years on a desert island to her home in England during WWII-- but not at all! There is humor, but also poignancy and yearning and the weighing of what is most important in life. I loved the writing and would like to read all of Barbara Euphan Todd's books!
Very well written, but I never really got involved. I felt like I was being taught a lesson, which was obviously the case, but I found it sort of heavy instead of satirical. I ended up not liking Miss Ranskill at all, and feeling like I just wanted to see the end. Maybe I was not in the right mood.
What a book!
Well-written and somewhat topsy turvy at the beginning, as you struggle to get your bearings.
I won't explain it because it's best experienced for yourself, but it is at once poignant, lyrical, hard-boiled, and satirical.
I didn't realize until I had finished it that it was written in 1946, and has recently been re-released by Persephone books, which is dedicated to resurrecting fiction by women.
From a longer piece on Goodreads: In 1946, after the death of her husband in World War II, she wrote her only adult novel, 'Miss Ranskill Comes Home' (1946), about a woman who returns to England after being stranded on a desert island during the war.
It was reissued in 2003 by Persephone Books.
When she returns to England it seems to her to have gone mad: she cannot buy clothes without 'coupons', her friends are only interested in 'war work', and yet she is considered uncivilised if she walks barefoot or is late for meals.
Even the language was secret from her, full of strange words and alphabetical sequences.Even as she gets to grips with the mysteries of ration books and horror of air raids, life on the island has given her new perspective and Miss Ranskill's new-found class consciousness is incomprehensible to her old friends and her sister.Barbara Euphan Todd is best known as the author of the Worzel Gummidge books, and this was her only novel for adults.
This book begins with a burial and escape from a desert island. Rescued, Miss Ranskill returns changed herself to an England changed by WWII. Fantastical, often humorous, this novel is also a story about private grief at a time of national crisis. An unusual, but rewarding read with an unusual, but winning heroine.
This is one of those wonderful old books that I love. It was quite different than I expected, but much better and deeper. Wonderful insight into World War II England and the people and how they responded to privation. Very touching story of Miss Ranskill learning to cope with her new world (life after desert island) and past grief (loss of the Carpenter).
I wrote a review of this and Goodreads ate it, so I'll just note that I really enjoyed reading about the scappy Miss Ransome and her Robin Crusoe, Fish Out of Water, WWII England, Building Her Own Life story.
A favorite Persephone book. A British woman falls off a ship in 1939 and washes up on a desert island. She isn't rescued until 1943, when she returns to a completely different, wartime England. It's a satire of wartime society, but it runs deeper than that. Miss Ranskill is quite a woman.
Persephone book #46
I have discovered some absolute gems thanks to Persephone Books, but unfortunately Miss Ranskill Comes Home can't be counted as a favourite.
It's a clever device to depict the intricacies of wartime life, especially as a Persephone reader in the twenty-first century will share much of the confusion experienced by the protagonist.
The confusion also proves to be the novel's downfall, as least as far I'm concerned.
This, combined with the hopeful tone, compensates slightly for the novel's other weaknesses, even if I remain ambivalent about Miss Ranskill Comes Home as a whole.
