https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/618822.To_Marry_an_English_Lord
5 stars for content.
Great information.
Loads of pictures.
Extra brownie points to the authors for their fulsome praise over how awesome American girls are were.
Well, duh...1 stars for the literary sadist formatting this book.
Annoying as all get-out.Giving it 4 stars since the content won out over the format.
Plus, who doesn't like a trans-Atlantic romance with a titled Englishman?Julian Fellowes is said to have gotten the germ of the idea of Downton Abbey from reading this years ago.
Would love to see a mini-series on "The Real Titled American Housewives of Victorian/Edwardian England" featured in this book.
This book contains lots of information about people of that era (real, in this case), but thrown together in such a maddening way as to negate any benefit from the stories it tries to tell.
Two page long mini-info-dumps appear every 20 pages, often just when you turn the page, mid-sentence, so you must choose whether to turn ahead to finish the thought (paragraph?) and hope you remember to turn back, or read the new section and then turn back to figure out where you were previously, which I know is my favorite way to try to track 87 or so characters, half of whom share names.
It's only three stars because, while I really enjoyed the majority of the book, the format and constant interruptions to the text took away some of the enjoyment. I also didn't technically read the entire thing since I just skimmed the bios and locations at the end. I want a book like this about the women but without the asides. It did make me finally purchase Five Sisters though.
The lack of editing, the mis-spellings, the lack of flow, the disorganization of information, the repetition, the too small illustrations, the repetition, and the boring writing style--really ruined a possible 4 star read! This books explains the set-up of Downton Abbey. The wealthy young American girls, that fled snobbish NYC for titles, and society. Many found poor marriages and despair. Yet, they had their daughters marry the same way as well. The topic is fascinating, but this book is just a chore to read.
Fans of Downton Abbey and other Anglophiles will enjoy this book, which tells the stories of the American women who married into English aristocracy in the late-1800s. (Usually because the titled British families needed the money from wealthy Americans.) It's filled with photographs and interesting facts about their lives, such as how much it really cost to maintain a country estate, how difficult it was to run a household with servants and how wives adjusted to cold English society. It may spoil your fantasy of marrying a Duke, but it's still a delightful read.
Rating: 4 starsWith all the media hype over Megan Markle and Prince Harry being from separate continents, I thought I would read this book.
Surely marriages between the English peerage and American ruling classes happened in the past?Of course.
The book explains how Princess Diana's grandfather was American.
In fact, during the Victorian and Edwardian eras, American heiresses made countless marriages into the British peerage.
Once it became known that American heiresses were for the asking if one had a title, then quite a few of the English elite traveled to our shores to seek out a MOC.
Covering the years between the end of the American civil war and the death of King Edward VII in 1910, this book gave me a fairly good understanding of why American heiresses were marrying titled Englishmen in droves (more than 100 did, including Winston Churchill's mother) and what that meant for both (high-society) cultures.It wasn't just that the moribund English upper crust needed vulgar American bucks to prop up their pricey habits and accouterments (which included huge, drafty, crumbling, damp houses and the army of servants those required).
They were often from families whose shiny new money wasn't enough to impress that stiff-backed New York star-maker, Mrs. William Astor.
Or Heiress Moneybags, meet Lord Empty-Pockets.I've always thought the Gilded Age American heiresses chasing English Titles a fascinating phenomenon.
I mean, really, what ever the fuck for?
Dear Heiress, he's just gonna spend your money, and be a snob while doing it.
Oh right, snobbery all around.
Anyway, To Marry An English Lord has a whole lot of information, and it's an easy read that gives a fairly comprehensive picture of the period.
That said, it's a very episodic book.
Overall, To Marry an English Lord is a good starter book on this particular topic.
Informative and entertaining, this is an account of the American heiresses (Wharton's Buccaneers) that invaded Britain in search of titled husbands. It's thoroughly researched and yet presented in so entertaining a way that you don't really feel like you're learning. It feels more like reading a Victorian gossip magazine. I wish there had been more, along the way, about where the authors have sourced their information (a bibliography, footnotes etc.), but that's my only gripe.
This book contains some pretty fascinating facts about the history of society life!
I found this especially interesting since I lived in New York City for a few years - you kind of take for granted that something is called "Astor Place" but then to read about the actual Astor family that it is named after is something pretty cool.
The photography was such a great enhancement of the facts, I loved putting faces and locations with the names.
My only complaint would be that it jumped around chronologically which became a bit confusing.
A definite must read for Downton Abbey fans!
Holy cow, was this book fascinating!
Contrary to what bodice ripping romance novels would have you believe, it was NOT easy to marry an English Lord in the Victorian/Edwardian age, especially if you were an English girl!
You had better luck if you were a rich American girl whose uber-wealthy (and not just by today's standards, either- these people were spending some MEGA MONEY) father was willing to open the purse in order to gain a bit more cachet at home.
Really, this book has so much to offer on many levels- info about Anglo/USA relations, fashion, business, gossip, politics, customs, etc.
"The débutante, daydreaming in the dark parlor, could easily envision her future: two or three seasons of paying calls with Mama, looking at albums of Venice with young men at parties, blushingly sharing a hymnal at church, having her hand pressed meaningfully on the dance floor.
A box for the opera at the Academy of Music; possibly a summer cottage; and, in time, a débutante daughter of her own, looking at albums of Venice with her best friend’s son"Then came 'New people' which were rich and want to be accepted.
This book, a cultural history of American heiresses marrying English Lords, is just plain fun and fascinating.
By the late 1800’s--early 1900’s there was a growing number of young ladies in the US who had lots of family money, but who couldn’t break into proper American “Society” because being nouveau riche they had no social status.
All of which is entertainingly recounted in this book.After growing up in a fancy, almost palace-like mansion the American heiress often started married life in her British husband’s dark, deteriorating ancestral manor without indoor plumbing.
Their money enabled this old aristocratic (but short on cash) families to refurbish, restore and modernize their ancestral homes, in exchange for which they got a title and a great deal of social prestige.I read this book shortly after completing New York: The Novel and a lot of what was in this book was reflected in Rutherfurd's fictionalized account as well.
After reading this one, I would also like to read The Glitter And The Gold to get Consuelo Vanderbilt's first-hand account of her experiences.If you suffer from Anglomania, then this book is for YOU!
The relatively small number of peers meant that there weren't that many heiresses in absolute terms seeking marriages, but the press on both sides of the Atlantic covered them in extensive detail, and To Marry an English Lord implies that this did a lot to help thaw relations between England and America.
One other thing I thought was interesting was the discussion near the end of the decline of the Old New York social scene because it was pointless.
Also, the long aristocratic disdain for trade mostly collapsed in the face of increasing debts, and if the duke has to go to work just like everyone else, than how much is that title worth anyway?
This is a breezy, easy to read history of the generations of American heiresses who took Europe, and especially England, by storm.
From the original Buccaneers (including Winston Churchill's own mother) who blazed the first trail from socially hide-bound New York to more permissive Europe, to the Self Made Girls and the American Aristocrats, each new wave of American femininity is catalogued here in a fun, readable way.
The heiresses went to Europe because New York excluded them out of fear of damaging the exclusivity of their society.
In Europe, and especially Britain, on the other hand, these wealthy women were welcomed into the best of society.
This history of the glut of rich young American women invading Britain during the last decade of the 19th century in search of a titled husband is humorous, informative and gossipy.
The societal "rules" bordered on the ludicrous and the author provides a glimpse into what was expected or demanded from those who married into the aristocracy....dress, how to entertain royalty, marital fidelity or discreet lack thereof, and where to be seen, just to name a few.
An entertaining book which has an underlying theme of the frivolousness and somewhat purposeless lives of high society of the times.
So much dataThis book seem to rely heavily on historical data and facts, more than primary sources. Some primary sources were used and that provided great context in spots. Mostly it felt like reading an almanac for the rich and famous, lots of names, dates and tidbits of the cost and value of dresses and houses and such. It felt like there could have been more context and continuity to weave a story -- there are so many characters involved it was really easy to lose track.
Any Downton Abbey fan worth his or her salt would salivate at the chance to understand the backstories of the real women who inspired Downton’s popular character Lady Grantham.
Wily American mothers realized that their fresh-faced, vivacious (and filthy rich) daughters had better prospects across the pond, where Prince Bertie (eldest son of Queen Victoria), worshipped beautiful women, and so supported the American girls in their matrimonial enterprises.One such match between an American heiress and British Lord produced Winston Churchill (how many people know that one of Britain’s most famous Prime Ministers was half American?).I never realized that, before this glamorous American invasion, British-American relations were not at the level of amicability we enjoy today.
The book is chock full of facts about ostentatious wealth and extravagance, about huge dowries of American money which protected many a broke English noble family from bankruptcy, about obscene amounts of money spent on clothing, interior decoration, and entertaining the Prince of Wales (who eventually became King Edward VII).
Each of the English nobles is referred to by a variety of names and/or titles (for example, given name and surname, title before inheritance, title after inheritance, name of the family country seat, name of the family's London home).
On a more positive note, the book is an interesting comment on the changes in attitude about the American heiresses who married English nobles.
Threaded through all these eras of "dollar princesses" is the fascination and support of Prince Albert, Prince of Wales (later King Edward VII), who admired and accepted the American arrivistes, giving them social acceptability and even encouraging matches between the girls and various titled men.
This book was packed full of info and quite readable, and I'm sure that my interests in Downton Abbey and Philippa Gregory novels would indicate to friends that I'd likely enjoy this sort of stuff.
I had no idea the 1800s brought such a huge rush of newly rich Americans seeking royal or noble husbands for their heiress daughters, thus the huge numbers of young women off to Europe/UK.
(On the other hand, not being an heiress, I probably would've longed for the dressing-etc life rather than something far less comfortable, since times were harder and women's rights almost non-existent.)Very much worth reading if you're interested in this type of thing.
I loved this book!
It was an Anglophiles dream!
The text was so informative and gave us not only a fun and snappy version of the time, but a great narrative into he lives and outcomes of these American women.
The loads of pictures also made me so happy because I got a better sense of the time and as everyone knows I enjoy loads of pictures in my histories.
In addition I liked the directory at the end which gave us brief profiles of the many women featured.
One of the better histories I read lately!
It's well documented that this was the book that inspired Downton Abbey.
If you like digging into the real life history behind the entertainment you'll probably enjoy this book.It explains why Anglo-American marriages were such a trend at the turn of the 20th century.
It has to do with the Prince of Wales, the impoverished state of many British nobles, the perceived value of social status for the nouveaux riche, the snobbery of New York, and the cultural freshness of Americans.While occasionally I noticed the book making some sweeping generalizations/stereotypes, and it was chronologically quite jumpy, overall it was interesting.
This was a fascinating, interesting look into the mass move of rich American heiress to marry into English families for title and social status. A broad view of life for the American "aristocracy' of the 1880s through the early 1900s gives a window into a lifestyle that many of us cannot fathom or truly understand today. This book is full of interesting tidbits, sidenotes and pictures. While it is an easy read, it was not a quick read so plan on spending some time with this book to really soak it all in.
Fun and remarkably thorough history of "American heiress meets impecunious British lord." MacColl really seems to know the period--sharing gossip and warning of possible faux pas. At the end is an alphabetical list of heiresses with their background (ie how their fathers made their money) and who they married. Notable divorces and remarriages are included. Then, we are treated to a walking tour of the places that are notable in their relation to the women on the first list. Very well researched for such a fun read.
This was a great book. Actually my favorite book I read this year. It's the book that the television show Downton Abbey was inspired from. True stories of American Heiresses seeking European titles and the near destitute European Aristocracy in need of American fortunes. Extremely fascinating. I want to read more about these women and their lives.
This was a fun pictorial/anecdotal history of the wealthy young American women who traveled abroad to find love and marriage among European aristocrats. Filled with tibits of trivia involving fashion, etiquette, entertaining, courting, and other interesting topics related to the Victorian and Edwardian periods.
This is one of my favorite reference books because of the wealth of images that are included.
I enjoyed the book..it was eye opening to the world of the rich.Most of them led very shallow purposeless lives.They seem to center their lives on senseless pleasure.But well researched and written.
