https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542429.Ordeal_by_Hunger
Ordeal by Hunger: George R. Stewart's Story of the Donner Party The Donner Party Monument, Truckee, California State ParkI happened to be in Reno, Nevada, in late March, 2012. It was strictly business, assisting a family with whom I have had a significant bond for many years. Casinos have no allure for me. However historical sites have drawn me to them like a magnet since childhood. I owe that to my grandfather with whom I would travel during summers on his business trips. As the rest of my fami
The Donner Party Monument, Truckee, California State ParkI happened to be in Reno, Nevada, in late March, 2012.
Stewart destroys those inaccuracies through careful research and an understanding of the circumstances that led to the plight of the party.If there's a villain responsible for the fate of the Donners and those families that traveled with them, it's Lansford Hastings, an entrepreneur who had traveled to and from California on more than one occasion.
Stewart’s description of that terrible tragedy has remained the definitive account, which is saying something as it is also probably the best known and most widely recounted story of pioneer journeys ever.Among Americans anyway, you only have to say, ‘the Donner party’ and the immediate association is cannibalism.
Stewart’s book was originally published in 1936, which was optimal because he was able to interview the last surviving witnesses and yet enough time had passed that everything hidden had been flushed out—by way of diaries, and other oral and written evidence, etc.
He's also prone to sentimentality about the heroism of the men of the party and the pathos to be milked from the plight of the women and children, and I object to the explicit trivializing of the children's experiences and equally explicit privileging of the men's: "There is the story, for instance, of how little Eliza Donner cried herself to sleep that next night because Miller had promised her a piece of loaf sugar if she would walk a certain distance, and then had harshly told her that there was no sugar.

This was a fascinating tale of true strength and bravery like no other I have read.
My boyfriend is a truck driver so he drives Donner's Pass a lot and he has told me about it, so when I saw the made for TV mini series on the Weather Channel over Thanksgiving, I knew I would want to read more about this ordeal.
Boy, what an ordeal.
I mean being in cold freezing snowy weather when people were dropping like flies and then eating them in order to survive.
I WOULD DIE IN A HEART BEAT.
Excellent book and an interesting tid-bit in history.
I've never read anything by George Stewart before and discovered him by way of Wallace Stegner's "Big Rock Candy Mountain".
This was truly a page turner and well written.
It was written in 1936 so was probably the first book about that incident.
He seems to have done a lot of research; quite a few of the people had left journals and of course about half of them survived.
Stewart is a good writer so that added to the suspense of the story.
There have been a lot of stories about the Donnor Party but this one seems to be the real deal.
I plan to read more by Stewart.
Gripping account of the Donner Party's struggle to survive during the winter of 1846 in the Sierra Nevada mountains, by an author who interviewed that last living survivors of the party. I couldn't believe what they suffered before they even got to Donner Pass, much less afterward. I read the book all in one sitting-- just couldn't put it down. Incredible! Highly recommended!
Stewart focuses on forming an accurate logistical picture of the travels and trials of 87 members of the Donner Party against a harsh environment, whose wagon train came together around July 1846 near the Great Salt Lake and headed to California over a newly inspired yet little tested route over a dangerously steep pass in the Sierra Nevadas, which the trusted and well-traveled Hastings recommended they try in order to save 300 miles had they taken the known (and therefore safer) emigration trail around the mountains.
Stewart tells the tale well, generating suspense despite the fact that most of us know how this one turns out.
Stewart describes the terrain with an expert eye because he performed excavations in the area while researching the book.
I appreciated the fact that he told this more as a narrative than an analysis--no blame for the bad decisions that led to this tragedy, for example.
He doesn't ignore the fact that there were bad decisions, but he's not interesting in assigning fault.
For the most part, Stewart's prose holds up.
Stewart tries hard not to play favorites in terms of casting heroes and villains in the story.
Most people know at least a little bit about the Donner party of 1846.
The whole story of the Donner Party is so much more fascinating and important than the sensational tidbits that might get tossed around in casual conversation.Ordeal By Hunger was written in 1936 -- 90 years after the events it describes -- and vividly tells the story of hardships endured by a handful of rugged individuals and families who followed their dreams and sought out the adventure of a new life in the unsettled and disputed territory of California.
It highlights all the best of mankind's soul, but also the worst.
The book was written in 1936 when one of the Donner Party was still alive but author Stewart apparently had also researched in great detail the diaries and the journals of the settlers involved in this tragic event.
There are no words that can adequately explain the inspirational and soul searching aspects of this book other than to highlight that it reveals kindness, thoughtfulness as well as selfishness at its best and worst revealed by the harshest of circumstances.
This is one version of the Donner Party story.
The writing, or the book itself may not be deserving of 5 stars, although it is well done and eminently readable.
However, the historical story itself is one of the most heartbreaking and tragic in the American psyche.
If, when you think of the Donner Party, you only think cannibalism you are missing most of the story.
How it got to that is the real story and how it all turned out.
It is a story of the American west, but it has all the elements of a Greek tragedy.
I think that this book does an amazing job of sticking by the details and accurate interpretation of the journals and letters written by the members of the Donner-Reed party.
After reading some chapters I feared I would have nightmares!
The whole struggle is UNBELIEVABLE!
I felt by reading this book published in 1936 that it was a trip back into different time when the author could provide an authentic view of the type of people in the party.
I would recommend this book to anyone with slight interested in the Donner Party story.
I could hardly put the book down.
Today, "Ordeal By Hunger" is rather dated if only because there are no visuals. The maps are poorly detailed. But for those yet unaware of this historical footnote, "Ordeal By Hunger" should be the first step towards understanding the dark side of the human experience. Thus, there is wisdom to be found in these pages.
This book absolutely blew me away. I had heard of the Donner Party and knew something of their fate, but nothing can prepare you for their full story.
The book was written some time ago, and sometimes the prose are dated in the manner the information is presented, but one can hardly fault the author for that.
The edition I read has an excellent annotation by the author, written several years after the original; it offers some unedited diaries and letters by some of the travelers, notes about other books on the subject, and some information he gleaned after the first edition.
That, along with a few other statements by the author of that review, have led me to believe she actually read another book.
I read this for a book club.
I wasn't excited about it, and it wasn't the normal more fun books I normally like to read, but I did find it very interesting and informative.
Even the rescue parties, albeit disorganized and unexperienced, exhibited a range of gallantry and self-sacrifice to save the needy, and pure self-serving greed without a thought to the lives that could be saved.
It forces a look in the mirror to decide honestly 'how would I react to those circumstances?
Even the rescue party was completely different.
They were duped by trail leader who claimed he knew a way that would take 350 miles off the trip and save them many days travel.
Instead of a well worn wagon path, they had to chop trees and build their own road.
They soon came to the dessert, which they were prepared for, but instead of the 40 miles they expected, it was more like 80.
This is their incredible story of struggling to survive while starving to death.
None of us knows what it is like to starve to death and watch our babies die in our arms because we couldn't feed them.
I vaguely knew the story of the Donner Party--a family traveling along the California Trail get trapped in snow and resort to cannibalism.
I had been unaware that there were nearly 90 people in this wagon train and they had been relying on the supposed knowledge of someone who made the crossing a few times, only to realize much, much too late that the man was a hack.
They weren't just trapped in snow for months but also crossed a desert running out of water.
But the idea that real people experienced these hardships and were put in such terrible circumstances fills me with a sense of dread.
I bought this book in the Truckee train station, during a Sierra snow storm and read it on the train home to Roseville.
Instead of the textbook teaching: these people took their time crossing the mountains and got stuck in the snow, this novel gives much more respect for the Donner Party members.
The Donner Party's horrific tale was spread far and wide.
However it was through the terrible fate of the Donner Party that many other emmigrants chose to stick to the other worn travel trails and not stand their chance in the Nevada desert.
Interesting to see that, contrary to what one might assume, the party did not band together as one, but maintained a "dog eat dog" (cough) mentality to the very end.
In addition, the same book written today would have probably included clear maps, or maybe even photos, of the area.
The pen and ink map drawings were adequate for the times when the book was published, but they do little to indicate the location now, particularly since some location names or references have changed.
I was anxious to see where they traveled in relation to developed areas today.
They traveled an essentially untried route being hawked by a man named Hastings, along the way enduring near death from thirst, marauding Indians, at least one murder, and, finally, entrapment in the Sierra Nevada mountains through the worst-ever recorded winter in that region.
It concludes with several chapters discussing the party's ordeal, its causes and consequences, and includes postscripts about the fate of each individual, and reprints of diaries and letters from the travelers.
For example, I had assumed the gist of their story and difficulties were when they got snowed in before they could make the pass to California.
But I found out they had many life-threatening difficulties along the way, which were so serious that they almost didn’t even make it to the mountains where they became the famous “Donner Party.” I also assumed that they and their tragedy were not known or discovered until the next spring, when, in fact, they were known and several rescue attempts were made over the pass.
But there is much more to the story, and it's told well in this book.I particularly enjoyed the description of the party's passage from Wyoming down through the Wasatch mountains into Salt Lake valley in 1846, a year before the Mormon pioneers.
They had great struggles across the Salt Flats in Utah and the Nevada desert, losing oxen and supplies along the way, suffering greatly from lack of water, and constantly facing delays.The description of their winter suffering in the high Sierras is heart-breaking and gripping.
I read this book for two reasons - 1.) I grew up in northern California and we would drive through Donner's Pass from time to time.2.) I've been into true survival stories lately, most notably 127 Hours and the 1972 Uruguayan plane crash.
It's almost hard to believe what they went through, even before getting trapped in the mountains.
That's before they got trapped in the Sierras and had to resort to cannibalism.
It's definitely one of the bleakest books I've ever read.
It's hard not to blame it on men's stupidity and arrogance.
What type of men would bring their women and children on an untested shortcut when there was an established and safe trail?
Great read.
On the other hand this book also made me realize how, even at that time, we often bring hardship on ourselves FOR NO GOOD REASON!!!
Most of (if not all) members of this party did not NEED to go to California.
But the two head honchos; James Reed and George Donner, already had a great life.
I will draw a conclusion that other great lit also validates : Americans if not all humans in pursuit of greater freedom, wealth and a "better" life often create as many problems (if not more) than they solve.
For instance, the book opens with this passage: "To observe the scene of this story the reader must for a moment imagine himself taken backward many years in time and raised in space some hundreds of miles above a spot near the center of the state of Nevada.
Some might call this style pompous or grandiose, but to me, it gives the book a character that is very in keeping with the events of the story that take place in time so different from our own.Stewart doesn't dwell on the sensational cannibalism that provides most of the fascination for this incident.
Then on our way home we stopped by the Donner Memorial State Park.
I knew I wanted learn more about this experience, so decided to find the book.
The book at times is hard to go through because of the gruesome details.
But, yet this was a human experience and it was gripping.
It made me wonder what kind of person I would be through an experience like that.
Also, having driven through the very area they crossed, this book made me very grateful for the modern times we live and the transportation we have available.
Yet grateful for those that paved the way.
Such a sad story.
I am amazed after listening to this the resilience our bodies have.
The things that these people survived and lived thru amazes me.
The will to live is definitely strong in some people.
It is also sad to see the true nature of some people.
I am glad to know the story behind the Donner party, all I have ever heard is Cannibalism, but this story is so much more than cannibalism, it is about the courage it takes for face trials, and about the will to live, and unselfishness to help others.
(although their was a lot of selfishness shown in the story as well.)
In April, 1846, George Donner, his wife Tamsen and daughters, George's brother, Jacob Donner & family and the Reed family start off from Springfield, Illinois to begin a new life in the famed land of California.
When the party became snow bound in the Sierrra Nevads's during a rather severe winter (1846-1847), without proper food or furnishings to survive, some of the emigrants resorted to cannibalism.
Of the original 87 pioneers plus two Indian guides, 42 dies & 47 survives.
A heart-rendering story of what human beings may achieve, endure & perpetrate, in the final press of circumstance.
For a more detailed look into the circumstances & newer information, a very resourceful site is: utahcrossroads.org/DonnerParty
