https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/402292.The_Liberal_Imagination
Occasionally, he strays into more unusual opinions, like dismissing Sherwood Anderson, or saying that one of the minor works of Henry James, The Princess Casamassima, is a masterly political novel as there ever was.
These essays are very loosely gathered, but there are some faint connections of a main idea, which is how literature reflects social and political contexts.
Trilling is also dismissive of conservative intellectual tradition, saying that it does not really exist at all, and that it only forms caricatures of ideas.
Even if we dismiss the hideous growls of political demagogues since the early Cold War, there is still some conservative intellectual tradition remaining in T.
On the contrary, the idiosyncratic perceptual sophistication of the Jamesian novel, its "moral realism" about the cost and complexity of any action, are for Trilling humane correctives to the reductive materialist dogmas of politics:[the novelist:]is, as Fielding said, the historian's heir; but he will also be indifferent to History, sharing the vital stupidity of the World Historical Figure, who of course is not in the least interested in History but only in his own demands upon life and thus does not succumb to History's most malign and subtle trick, which is to fix and fascinate the mind of men with the pride of their foreknowledge of doom.
(In the heat of Freud's influence, Trilling's essay on his work is cool and critical.) One will only find the honest thoughts of a man who cared deeply about literature, and who wished to communicate this care in prose that is both direct and that does justice to the complexity of his subject.While reading The Liberal Imagination, I had a similar feeling as I did when reading W.E.B. Du Bois’s book, The Souls of Black Folk.
Nevertheless, the experience of watching the wheels of his mind spin as he slowly circled and closed in on his main point was exhilarating, even humbling.Despite the title, the political message of this book is mostly hinted at.

Тем, кому из двух заявленных тем, точнее целей, в которые метят эссе, подобно моему выбору "общество" ближе "литературы", особенно советую эссе про вышедшее в 1948 году исследование "Сексуальное поведение самца человека" (также известно как "отчет Кинси").
Однако при этом он не не без юмора показывает, сколь бедны избранные ученым средства, сколь бедна вообще идея редукции мужчин к "самцам человека" или разделения когда-то одной-на-все-случаи "любви" на идеализированную "любовь" и чересчур уж человеческую "похоть", которую приходится облагораживать научной латынью "секса".
Отдельное удовольствие -- эссе про Тацита, римского историка с ясной республиканской жилкой, рисующего историю во многом как историю злоупотреблений череды начальников, но при этом претора, консула и проконсула империи, подчиняющегося ненавистному Домициану.
Do I agree with everything Trilling says?
But Trilling's book is still fabulous: first, he argues that the question is not limited to reason on the one hand, and the irrational on the other.
There are kinds of reason, and kinds of the irrational.
Second, he's willing to get in the trenches and shout it loud: books matter!
They help you think better!
I'd like to throw a few dozen copies of this at Stanley Fish's head on the right, and at the heads of people on the left who think it's cool to disdain rational argument.
Have been savoring each essay as I worked my way through this book. I'm surprised that I've never read it before. Anyone seriously interested in writing should have a copy so it can be reread from time to time. Sample essays are "The Meaning of a Literary Idea", "Freud and Literature", "Manners, Morals, and the Novel", "A Sense of the Past", "The Function of the Little Magazine". I can't say enough about all of them.
This book is very much of its time, a great illustration of New Criticism or whatever, the last bastion of American critical thought unsullied by the dread French invasion of the 1960s. It's almost quaint. Nevertheless, Trilling was a wonderfully perceptive reader, and this volume of essays contains several real gems.
More or less, fiction in service of ideology remains thin, but when able to confront complex ideas based on conflicting emotions, the novel can still achieve an active relevance.“A culture is not a flow, nor even a confluence; the form of its existence is struggle, or at least debate”“There is no single meaning to any work of art; this is not true merely because it is better that it should be true, that is, because it makes art a richer thing, but because historical and personal experience show it to be true.
What comes into being when two contradictory emotions are made to confront each other and are required to have a relationship with each other is, as I have said, quite properly called an idea.

I don't recall the book. I think Trilling was such a stylist that I didn't get much out of it.
In a wonderful passage Trilling laments to prominence of the the 'art is a ________' sort of approach to cultural production, saying, "'Art is a weapon" and "Ideas are weapons" were phrases that a few years ago had a wide and happy currency; and sometimes, as we look at the necessities of our life, we have the sense that the weapon metaphor all too ruthlessly advances--food is now a weapon, sleep and love will soon be weapons, and our finial slogan will be, "Life is a weapon." And yet the question of power is forced upon us.'Trilling also does battle with the, though not uniquely American, arguably profoundly American belief that the tendrils of art and genius stem from madness and other aberrations from the normal backdrop of reality.
i did more thinking in the course of reading this book than i've done in the last three years.
entirely worth it just for the final essay, "the meaning of a literary idea." i went to find a quote from it, but found that every sentence of it was inextricably bound to the ones that came both before and after, so i would have to transcribe the whole thing here in order to do it justice.
Love, parenthood, incest, patricide: these are what the great ideas suggest to literature, these are the means by which they express themselves.
But as Trilling writes in a voice which is situated somewhere between a C19th court hearing and free-association therapy, it's very difficult to work out what he's on about half the time.
Any section of 'The Meaning of the Literary Idea', also available online, should give a fair idea of the overall critical approach.On a more charitable note, 'Art and Neurosis' raises some very good points about the relationship between creativity and mental illness, and is almost certainly the best in the collection.
But, again, due to the dense/languid writing style, it's very difficult to say which of these points if any have been dealt with.
Inspiring, still, to me; it seems like no matter how much you read, or how much you love reading, the hardest thing to do is to tell someone why. Trilling gives you a possible response, but the problem, of course, is justifications get dated, and they can only be partial, and all theories are doomed by necessary competition. Trilling remains a relevant endorser, though, of appreciating a true, complicated vision of life.
the idea that politics and literature should seem so closely intertwined to Trilling seems now a quaint reminder of a time when books and ideas mattered in mainstream culture in a way they dont anymore. His prose is eloquent, his views occasionally hard to swallow can seem dated but more often as when he discusses Fitzgerald the reader finds himself excited about going back to the source material with new insight.
When my housemaster caught me reading this in college, she giggled and called it "quaint." That was pretty awesome. This book is a true pleasure, however, for defending Mansfield Park, for "Art and Neurosis," and for making literature seem relevant (even if it's not).
Is dense; I stupid.
Quit at 34.
I like Trilling, so reading this book is my only means of imagining what it must have been like to have been in one of his seminars.
Challenging....but, like most challenges, rewarding. Love the sly, sarcastic humor and his gift for damning with faint praise.
