https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20588698-not-that-kind-of-girl
Why do we care? Actual wisdom: none. Humor: meh. Self-involved girl writing about her self-created problems. Got to where she is via luck and privilege. Girl bye.
For someone who has branded herself as “not that kind of girl” by titling her first book Not That Kind of Girl, Lena Dunham is still a very specific kind of girl with a very specific kind of (girl) fan, just not that kind. Lena Dunham is the kind of girl who can write a sentence that makes you guffaw, “That can’t possibly be true!" and yet you believe it. A sentence like this:  He called me terrible names when I broke up with him for a Puerto Rican named Joe with a tattoo that said mom in Comic
Lena Dunham is the kind of girl who can write a sentence that makes you guffaw, “That can’t possibly be true!" and yet you believe it.
This confidence in self has led to hordes of fans, other girls full of various selves they want to share but don’t exactly know where or how or even if they can, because it might be scary.I just wish Lena had taken this platform that she has built and decorated and adorned with Emmys and haters galore by age 28 and said something more…relevant?
I'm going to put aside the whole lack of inclusion of any kind of race or ethnicity in her filmic work, because she doesn't have any friends who fall outside the privileged upper middle class white demographic, so this is what she writes about, and that's sad and sort of symptomatic of a new "hey, i'm cool with people who aren't white, I just don't have any friends who aren't white" racism – but this is who she is and it's been discussed endlessly and fruitlessly and depressingly, and it's sort of like the equally cartoonishly white John Hughes 80's high school movie franchise, so let's just talk about this book.She's a fantastic writer.
Maybe even note the quantity of people you know who relate or look up to Lena Dunham!
They have to convert the heretics who are refusing to bow to the greatness that stands before them.I read this book because I saw people being trashed for disliking it solely because of some understandably infamous passages – quotes that got around so widely that even people who can't remember Lena Dunham's name know some things she claims to have done to her younger sister."You're taking those quotes out of context," commenters insisted.
If you can figure this out and still not like the book, you'll have learned something valuable about reading, writing, readers, and writers.2.
There are some smart observations, such as when, in a chapter about losing her virginity, she notes "[h]ow permanent virginity feels, and then how inconsequential." There are some funny moments, too, like when she writes, "He had a lot of time to cook: his job, editing the newsletter for a nonprofit that promoted the global language of Esperanto, was 'flexible.'" Funny, right?
You can't help who your parents are, and besides, forget privilege - my personal opinion (that everyone on Earth has been waiting for) is this chick's upbringing was like a social experiment gone wrong.
That personal writing by women is no more than an exercise in vanity and that we should appreciate this new world for women, sit down, and shut up."I agree with that sentiment, however, I don't need to read drivel about a silly email you wrote to a boy, or about weird boyfriends, or all the times you shared a bed with a guy but didn't have sex, or your burgeoning interest in exhibitionism, or entries from your food journal, blah blah blah.After a strong introduction, this book quickly became painful to read and I had to skim to get through it.
Not That Kind of Girl...more like Not My Kind of BookHonestly, the only thought that (continuously) ran through my head throughout this novel  OH THANK GAWD I did not buy this one  (#LibraryLove)The  cringe  factor on this book was almost too much to bear. I normally listen to audiobooks out loud but I found myself constantly turning down the volume because the content was basically only about sex. There's her sexual exploits as she blossoms from a girl who wants sex, to a girl who has sex with
Before you turn away, this happened when both Dunham and her little sister were younger.
Essentially, Dunham offered her kid sister candy if she could kiss her lips for five seconds.
The "exploration" bit happened when Dunham was 7 and her sister was 1.
I physically cringed away from my phone while muting the audiobook.Then, there's a few essays about how Dunham was raped.
Her flippant tone took away any sense of seriousness and her constant backtracking threw me off on what to believe.Thank goodness I did not purchase this one, I could not imagine a book I would want less on my shelves.
"There is nothing gutsier to me than a person announcing that their story is one that deserves to be told," Really, cause I think that there's nothing more narcissistic when you are under 30 and are best known for being naked, a lot.
Seriously, unless you are Anne Frank you have no business writing about what you've 'learned' sorry but I'd rather have the perspective of someone who has lived a few more decades.
Sorry, were you sold into human trafficking?
You weaken the sex when you talk about us being victims.
I'm not a victim, and neither were you.
Get some perspective!
I've watched Girls and I've heard good things about this book, so I decided to listen to the audio book version.
Throughout this, I didn't feel very connected to her, which is uncommon for me while reading a person's autobiography.
I also didn't feel like I personally got anything out of this book, but it kept me entertained while driving for 5 hours.
I'm not sure if I would recommend it, as I much prefer Amy Poehler's, Tina Fey's, and Mindy Kaling's autobiographies (I'm also bigger fans of them than I am of Lena Dunham), but if you're thinking about reading it anyway, don't let me stop you!
Yeesh. Snooze. Snooooooooze. Things I like better than this book: 1. The critically acclaimed TV show Girls2. Interviews with Lena Dunham3. The illegally-released proposal for this book4. The cover of this book5. Toledo. The typeface.
This is a hella biased review because I'll be the first to admit that I think Lena Dunham is the actual genuine second coming of Christ so just discount everything I say because it's wrong.
Dunham's humour and my humour are practically the same so this entire book was just a big treat for me.
While there were some dud essays (there always is), I thought that this is an overall great collection of sporadic ramblings.
If you're not a fan of Dunham then you'll probably hate this because it's extremely Dunhamesque.
The brutal honesty of Dunham in some essays is admirable, she really never holds back, I love it.
I tried to squint a little and entertain the notion that Dunham was just being all ironic and edgy, but then I'd stumble across earnest little gems like this: "I missed making things, the meaning it gave this long march we call life..." or horribly overthought efforts to be funny, like this: "For a few weeks, we sit at [my new therapist's] desk and focus on organizing my backpack, which looks like a crack-addicted hoarder with five toddlers took up residence in its front zipper pocket." And so I came to the irrevocable conclusion that she's neither ironic nor edgy, but a classic sufferer of "special snowflake" syndrome.
I mean, I'll preface this review with the fact that I think Lena Dunham is pretty awesome, and (just like Mindy Kaling) I followed her on Twitter for a spell, kind of dying inside for her to notice me and follow me back and make my life.
I've run into a lot of people who don't like Lena Dunham.
There's something strangely east coast about her experiences and attitude that I have a hard time living vicariously, it's quite foreign for me, that upper class NYC thing from a pretty well-off person's POV that I like looking AT but can't get inside, you know?
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/2.5 Stars  “There is nothing gutsier to me than a person announcing that their story is one that deserves to be told, especially if that person is a woman. As hard as we have worked and as far as we have come, there are still so many forces conspiring to tell women that our concerns are petty, our opinions aren’t needed, that we lack the gravitas necessary for our stories to matter.” This little book sure stirred up a hornet’s nest of
I knew next to nothing about Lena Dunham when I decided to read this book.
I think Dunham came from a life of privilege and didn’t have to struggle much in order to achieve a place on the A-list.
Sadly, I think all of these embellishments or fabrications were included because Dunham fears her one confession of a night where she made bad decisions that led her to be raped will be the story no one believes.
I understand and applaud Dunham's efforts to portray "real sex" and not "hollywood sex" in film and literature, but recounting every haphazard sexual experience she's had wasn't enlightening or amusing.
I also think she needs to take another look at her friend Juliana who was clearly IMing her as Igor (hello!
I did really like the chapter on the childrens clothing shop, and the "things I'll say when I'm 80" piece.
"writers." While Dunham is a delightfully creative person, and I love the stories she tells on screen & her tweets are goofy quippy genius, NTKOG did not translate to literary prowess in this case.
Essays on all kinds of topics told in her blunt and what some may consider strange way.
No topic is out of bounds from masturbation, sex, falling in love, feeling alone, anxiety and OCD disorders, feeling insecure about her weight, filming naked, trying to prove herself in the entertainment industry and more.
I love Lena Dunham's TV show GIRLS so I thought I would love her book.
I will admit that I didn't know very much about her before watching GIRLS.
I would likely have a different take on the book altogether if I had not watched her show.I found parts of the book entertaining.
Dear Lena, I'm not a huge fan of this term either, but I think I have a girl crush on you.
I think it's because you've given a voice to so many of the things I've done and felt and worried about, things I never thought I'd hear from another woman.
I think this is why I feel that I'm just like you, because you have an ability to unite women, young and old.
I just think it's awesome.
So maybe I don't have a girl crush on you.
And I recommend this wonderful book to you.
I don't know if I was more annoyed about Dunham lamenting her charmed childhood or sticking an "honorary queer woman" button on her shirt (god, that irritates the fuck out of me) or crushing a massive anecdote about camp that made no sense in the last twenty-five or so pages.
All I know is that I was desperate for this book to end.
I'm loath to judge memoirs, because they are what they are.
All I can say, vaguely and yet with a great deal of certainty, is that this book was terrible to me.
God, it was terrible.
I always had a soft spot for Girls because I assumed Dunham was being self-aware in her depictions of various Lena-esque characters navigating the horrors of their 20s: feeling sorry for themselves because their parents have vowed to stop paying their monthly $1,500 rents, or working 20 hrs a week doing nothing in coffee shops (but still somehow living in spacious, awesome NY apartments), or walking out of jobs because the coworker they thought was cute turns out to have a girlfriend (but somehow continuing to live in spacious, awesome NY apartments), but after reading this memoir I'm not sure what level of self-awareness Dunham has actually achieved in her life.

This book was really not as funny as I thought it would be. It was a little dry. I REALLY like the shows 'Girls' on HBO and that is why I decided to get this book. It is nothing like the show, which I knew that it wouldn't be, but I thought that Lena would be the same in the show and in the book. My mistake. Not a complete loss, I laughed through some of it and fell asleep through some. The book was written well, so that's always a plus!
I love Girls, and I am consistently impressed by how well Dunham handles herself in interviews and how everyone seems to leave meeting her by whispering "SHE'S SO NICE." But a book?
In it Dunham eviscerates a certain type of Hollywood bro, and the whole thing just reads a little *sharper* than normal.
I want a whole book just of these essays.
But a lot of the other parts of the book felt derivative from the content of Girls, and while it's always enjoyable to spend time with "Lena Dunham," it felt like things I'd seen before.
Whoever is responsible for marketing her book did a standup job because I have seen so much publicity for it that I had to get my hands on it...First off, I think the whole child molestation bit that is circulating on the internet is just crap.
I don't know how anyone can say that a seven-year-old child looking at her sisters who-ha out of curiosity is molestation.
As far as the book goes, I think that the essay of her food journaling was quite boring but I felt that the others made up for it.
Seems like this should have been titled Exactly That Kind of Girl.
It reads like the celebrity profile of a young woman who grew up in a privileged position, rich and cared for so much that her parents could afford to send her to a therapist when she was a kid.
If you like reading celebrity profiles in magazines, then this one goes into too much detail for you.
If you're a female or male who's been through college, pick something else to read because nothing new about your young years can be learned from Not That Kind of Girl.
But this book was a disappointment.The charm of Dunham's work in Girls was in the tragicomic main character of her show, Hannah.
I always liked to believe that the character Hannah is inspired by Dunham's insights, not her life.
I can handle all those traits on Girls not only because it was drama and there was humor in the absurdity of something we can relate to, but also because there was always an element of suspense -- the character is drifting, she is making mistakes and being a jerk and being human and wonderfully funny, so we want to know what's going to happen to her.
“When someone shows you how little you mean to them and you keep coming back for more, before you know it, you start to mean less to yourself. You are not made up of compartments, you are one whole person. What gets said to you gets said to all of you. Ditto what gets done.” – Lena D. Here’s another example of a book I came into contact with at the right time. I was due to read this book when it was first published, but put it off when I heard talk of child molestation and fabrication of events
I was due to read this book when it was first published, but put it off when I heard talk of child molestation and fabrication of events at certain points in the memoir.After binge watching all seasons of Girls recently, it finally dawned on me who Lena Dunham was!
I decided it was time to read this pesky book.
Lena’s stories made me laugh out loud and shake my head in disbelief thinking, “Wow…she really went there.” I can’t help but admire the way she puts it all out there without shame.
I loved books like "Bossypants", and I enjoy Dunham's HBO show "Girls", so I thought this would be a funny, interesting window into her life, creativity, and success.
She has it separated into parts like "Love & Sex", "Friendship", etc.
If someone who did not know Dunham's real-life story read this memoir, they would assume she was a lazy, neurotic hipster who was self-indulgent and spoiled by her parents, and most likely still occupying her childhood bedroom and working at a coffee shop.
Dunham hardly mentions any of those parts of her and only flippantly mentions ambition once or twice.
"Life is long, people change, I would never be foolish enough to think otherwise. But no matter what, nothing can ever be as it was. Everything has changed in a way that sounds trite and borderline offensive when recounted over coffee. I can never be who I was."
I think I would have liked this book a lot more if I had read it in college, and ultimately I think it is written for women ages 18-29. Because with every time I would agree with Lena Dunham, I would shake my head in annoyance thrice as much.The following sentence sums up the most annoying things about Lena and her literary persona. "So when I gave you a blowjob (MY FIRST) on the day my cat died, you should have called." FOR FUCK'S SAKE.
