https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1158273.Killer_s_Choice
Death knocked a man down.
Death stole a man's dignity.
A dead man didn't care whether or not his hair was parted.
A dead girl didn't worry about whether or not her slip was showing.
The postures of death managed to simplify a human being to an angular mound of fleshy rubble.
Then, another robbery turns deadly, and the precinct has its hands full once again.Luckily, Cotton comes to the 87th, Cotton Hawes, that is..
While not exactly a rookie, his former precinct was not quite as crime-ridden, and he's a bit out of his element.
This is the book in which Ed McBain adds Cotton Hawes to the cast of detectives who populate the 87th Precinct.
As Hawes comes on board, a young woman named Annie Boone is shot and killed while working as a clerk in a liquor store.
This increases the pressure to find the killer or killers and Steve Carella, Meyer Meyer, Bert Kling and Hawes, the new addition to the team must follow a very slim trail of evidence in their effort to find a solution to the crimes.This is a quick, fun read, one of the better of the earlier books in the series.
It's fun to watch the interaction with Hawes, the new guy, especially as he makes a nearly catastrophic mistake early on in the investigation.
Steve Carella follows a lead to track down the killer but is joined by the newly transferred Cotton Hawes.
Carella soon discovers that Hawes is having trouble adapting from the more genteel surroundings of his previous posting compared to the mean streets patrolled by the 87th.
Meanwhile Detectives Bert Kling and Meyer Meyer have to track down another killer from a suspected hold-up, this time at a liquor store.
The detectives soon discover that the victim, a beautiful redhead, seems to have lived a variety of lives depending on who they question.
finished this one this morning, 5:27 a.m. if it matters and it doesn't. i really liked it. 4-stars.
The man could write!In this book, he introduces a new character, a new detective for the 87th, one interestingly named Cotton Hawes.
He's teamed up with Steve Carella, a good man from whom to learn the skills needed for investigating murders.This time out the 87th has two murders to investigate.
The Annie Booth case offers a large cast of possible suspects which the detectives must sort through until they isolate the real murderer.
In the Havilland case, they have a good idea who the killer is after their initial inquiries are made, but now they must find him.
Cotton Hawes is introduced in this solid 87th Precinct novel. He begins as a rather arrogant, self-satisfied screw-up. Enjoy finding out how this happens and if/how he redeems himself.
It opens a small window into what was the world of he pulp writer and the way the publishers used to thinkThe book itself is good, not too long and with a decent story at its core but there were a couple of moments where I disengaged.
It may have been the author trying out new styles but suddenly mid book there was comment in the narration as to why an action was a mistake.
Also a couple of the conversations felt like they went on too long.
Was this because the author did not believe in the story?
It just felt a bit light in the end.
Another good quick read in this good detective series.
It’s a bit on the slow side, but it’s an interesting concept, and the centerpiece of the book—the title refers to which of the many Annie Boones the killer chose to murder.On the other hand, Roger Havilland, cynic, racist, and once-decent cop corrupted, gets pushed through a plate-glass window when he displays an uncharacteristic interest in helping a hurt young man.
On two other hands, it’s something of a disappointment: the investigation slows down to a crawl of worthless interviews, which no amount of interesting characters can make up for, and several other elements were unconvincing or sloppy.
McBain didn't do piles of character development, but he knew when to do enough, and by starting out Cotton as a bit snobbish, it makes the Cotton Hawes in later books even better.What I didn't care for in this book (and the reason for the 3-star rating) is that the murder victim doesn't get properly fleshed out.
It makes the book fall a bit flat even though there's plenty of good parts to read.I would recommend this book for people wanting to see the first appearance of Cotton and for a pretty solid murder mystery (it is, of course, what McBain does best), but I don't think it's the greatest novel of the boys of the 87th.
Across the Atlantic, before The Wire there was the still-missed Hill Street Blues, and before Hill Street Blues there was Ed McBain's 87th Precinct, print rather than pixels but the genealogy was the same.
If it is still something of a shock to discover that Killer's Choice, the fifth in the 87th Precinct series, was first published more than fifty years ago, there are clues.
So there is almost a sense of period charm as Carella and Kling and Hawes set about solving the mysterious murder of a young woman whose multiple personality is unveiled chapter by chapter but never explained.
The 87th Precinct has better tales in its archive than this.
Amazon had a deal around Christmas time, twenty 87th Precinct novels for some stupid cheap number like 99 cents, so I bought all twenty of them to parcel out over a period of time.
I’ve never read an 87th Precinct novel I couldn’t recommend, some more enthusiastically than others.
This rates about a 6.5 on the ten-point McBain scale, which means it’s better than two-thirds of all the other books you’re likely to read this year.
What’s amazing about McBain is how his voice and style remained consistent, yet evolved over time.
In book 5 of the 87th Precinct stories we see some personnel changes in the detective squad.
Good old fashioned police work before the time of political correctness or extensive forensic techniques.I picked up a dozen of these books in a 99 cent sale but those ones start at #7 so I have to borrow a couple from the library to read past the gap.
If I can now get #6 I might end up reading a dozen or more of these this year.
The year was 1957.
Life was simpler then.
Divorce was almost unheard of.
Murder still took place.
There was nothing high-tech in that era.
It took a lot of legwork to solve a case.
No cellphones.
Everyone has a solid alibi in the killing of Annie Boone or so it seems.
Her many friends and loved ones have contradictory opinions of her.
Good solid sleuthing until you get to the end when the murder seemed to be solved too conveniently.
It seems the way it was solved would have been a daunting task, seemingly impossible, if not improbable.
The young woman named Annie lay in a pool of blood and liquor.
Shot in the chest four times and all the stock smashed on top of it, as the cops of the 87th begin investigating it, an odd picture begins to build of the victim.Divorced, in her early thirties with a daughter, depending on who you spoke with, she was a virtuous woman, a mistress, a drunkard, a teetotaler, smart, dumb, well read and a ballet goer, a pool hustler.
Her ex-husband spoke more highly of her than her own mother.
PROTAGONIST: The 87th precinctSETTING: "Isola", NYSERIES: #5RATING: 3.5WHY: Annie Boone was found murdered on a barroom floor, and it seems that almost every cop in the 87th precinct is involved in the investigation. It seems that everyone they interview paints a different picture of Annie, from saint to sinner, and it's difficult to get a handle on exactly who she was and who may have wanted her dead. I thought the killer was a bit of a stretch, but enjoyed the portrayals of the members of the police team, including a new guy who almost gets Steve Carella killed.
But he catches on quick and soon is assimilated into the squad.The main plot line and victim involves Annie Boone who worked at a liquor store and was found shot four times and laying facedown in broken shards of liquor bottles which had been pushed off the shelves onto her.
Hawes vindicates himself on the day they capture Havilland's killer.Some things not to miss: the interaction and dialogue between the detectives; a brief appearance of Monoghan and Monroe, detectives from Homicide North that are always amusing; several interviews with Annie's five year old precocious daughter named Monica; the gritty realism of the city of Isola which becomes another character in the stories; and pictures of actual forms used in the investigations.
As the police investigate the murder, they discover that Annie is a woman of mystery.
He’s one of the real bulls in the detective pool, a man embittered by an early experience when he was trying to be kind.
He is a man of good education, but clearly has a lot to learn when it comes to policing the inner city.
While investigating the murder of Havilland, there’s an incident that becomes the talk of the precinct and almost ends the partnership at the point of it beginning.
Throw in our new man Hawes and you have a police procedural to savour.
Gripping reading.
Still, a fun book.
The first appearance of Cotton Hawes.
He's a fun character.
McBain is pretty good at creating characters you feel like you know, even if they are a little shallow.
Hawes, with the red hair and the streak of white from getting stabbed once!
I remember him!"But I'd forgotten how the characters also have, well, character.
Hawes is kind of a jerk.
But strangely likeable all the same.I don't remember reading this one before.
But they all feel familiar because of the way characters appear throughout the books.
50 more McBain 87th Precinct books to go...
This is the fifth book in the 87th Precinct series. It is also the first one where McBain added the new character detective Cotton Hawes. There is also an interesting introduction written by McBain himself giving some background as to why he added Hawes. Like other 87th Precinct series books, this is is very well written with crisp and to the point writing. Like many other books in the series, there are two separate crimes involved and different detectives in the precinct work on them in parallel.
I really like Ed McBain's 87th Precinct stories. This one is about a pretty girl killed in a liquor store where she worked. There are a lot of suspects to interview because she was different personalities to different guys. However, she was also the girlfriend of the married liquor store owner. Good interaction between the detectives and good detection in figuring out who was the killer.
An old friendI read these books when I was in my twenties; and now in my seventies,it is like meeting old friends to revisit the 87th Precinct.I am enjoying the background articles as well.
Another solid entry in this long series.
Opět dobrá detektivka, jak jinak už u 87. revíru... i když rozuzlení mě až tak nezaujalo, tak celkově mě bavila. Ale zjistila jsem, že někdy se určitě nehodí být zdvořilý. To mě vážně pobavilo.
It was ok. Not the best one I have read
Review pending
3.75
Annie Boone, a worker at an liquor store is killed and things don't add up for the 87th precinct. Good.
Ok but weak ending. There were several items that were left hanging. Could have added a few paragraphs to explain what happened to Monica and Mrs. Travail.
Another great 87th precinct .....McBain and the 87th precinct series always entertain. Fast paced and very interesting, I have never read one I didn't like.
