https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376465.The_Horse_s_Mouth
I do think the portrayal of Gulley is one that makes him seem charming and okay the whole episode where he shows up at the rich people's home while they're on vacation and sells all their things so that he can buy art supplies and then manages to only paint a pair of feet on their wall was hilarious.
I know I'm supposed to laugh and I also know it's an older book written when norms were different but I can't help that I also am reading this in another time period with different norms, and as a women I just couldn't be like ha ha remember when he hit Sara in the face and broke her nose.
Description: The Horse's Mouth, the third and most celebrated volume of Joyce Cary's First Trilogy, is perhaps the finest novel ever written about an artist.
Now I'm back and relishing the thought that this, The Horse's Mouth, is the best of them all.
If you want to get that scholarship and go to Oxford and get into the Civil Service and be a great man and have two thousand pounds a year and a nice clean wife with hot and cold and a kid with real eyes that open and close and a garage for two cars and a savings book, you'll have to work your dinner time.
Nothing a man would understand.4* Herself Surprised2* To Be A Pilgrim4* The Horse's Mouth4* Mister Johnson
I'm so impressed by the amount of thought he puts into his characters even when I don't enjoy spending a lot of time around them, but I would love to be able to hang out with the painter and rogue Gulley Jimson or the man who was able to create him.
It's the passion and the complexity that Joyce Cary puts into Jimson's thoughts about art that gives this book its sharpness.
So I ask myself over and over again when I read The Horse's Mouth how such precision can coexist with such dynamism, and all I can come up with is that Joyce Cary deserves the name of genius.
(For most of the novel, Mink Snopes is in prison for murder, dreaming of getting out and killing—and by the end of the novel, you’re with him.) Joyce Cary’s Gulley Jimson is far from a killer, though he threatens murder over the phone, and he flirts with prison, from which the narrator writes in the first novel of this trilogy, Sarah Monday in Herself Surprised.
Not sure about insights into artists themselves; in fact, it may be better as an historical novel pre-WWII.
But I was thinking of artist Hitler.
3.5*Gulley Jimson was quite a character but on the whole I felt that the humor in this book was more of the sort which made me smile inwardly than the sort which make me laugh aloud.
Jimson indubitably was an artist but one who had gone off the rails sometime in his past.
What I found more melancholy was the fact that it seemed to me it was clear to him that his best work was behind him but he couldn't admit that to himself.
I had never heard of Irish writer Joyce Cary or of his novel 'The Horse's Mouth' before it was suggested as potential reading material by one of my book group friends.
Set in London in 1938 (on the banks of the Thames, in an area known as Greenbank), 'The Horse's Mouth' features Gulley Jimson.
Coker persuades Sara to sign a statement to the effect that the paintings were not hers to sell in the hope that this will provide Jimson with evidence that will help him to get them back from Hickson.
'The Horse's Mouth' is not always an easy read and is initially very difficult to get to grips with.
Next worst to an actress." --Some words from the many of Gully Jimson in The Horse's Mouth.There are two English novels that may give some profound insight into the artistic mind.
I say “may” because how the hell am I supposed to know to a certainty, not being an artist myself.
Those two novels in question are The Horse's Mouth and The Moon and Sixpence by W.
Unlike Dickens's great comic creations, Gully Jimson is not a caricature.
Yossarian lives, and so does Gully.
Intrepid and inspiring amid his quixotic artistic ventures, he is also an inveterate con man, a trait shared by many artists living and dead.
Gulley Jimson is one of the great literary creations, and as many times as I've read this novel, Gulley still appears as unique and unpredictable as he did the first time I read it. Joyce Cary's novels aren't as popular as they once were, but his First Trilogy remains a timeless masterpiece. I read the series backwards, it seems, for this is the third (and my favorite) novel. It's one of the finest descriptions of an artist and the artistic process ever written, in my opinion. Oh, and as an aside, it was my introduction to William Blake.
At the same time, all three now beg to be read again--the different points of view (Sara, then Tom, then Gulley), filled in by each character's separate inclinations, prejudices and intentions, would illuminate especially Sara's story, Herself Surprised.None of the three would pass muster with the moralists of the world.
And yet he must.One of the book's genuine pleasures is Gulley's continuous descriptive interior monologue about the colors and forms he sees around him, always inspiration for a new work of art, or an addition or alteration to a work-in-progress.
For Gulley Jimson, no matter his situation, good or bad, the world is always fresh, surprising, new, and alive.And he is always ready, and eager, to do it again.
Five windows light the caverned man ; through one he breathes the airThrough one hears music of the spheres ; through one can lookAnd see small portions of the eternal world.”The sheer beauty and the cloudy poetry of The Horse's Mouth just leave one dumbstricken and turns the novel into the one of the best books ever written about the artistes.“Nothing like poetry when you lie awake at night.
It keeps the old brain limber.
It washes away the mud and sand that keeps on blocking up the bends.” A life of a true artist is a perpetual and unremitting debacle.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠١١رواية عظيمة.. تتحدث عني وعنك أيها القارئ النخلص
Every scene is interrupted as a mackerel sky completely distracts him from whatever is happening.
The prose is terse and precise; his inner monologue would be a more conventional stream of consciousness if there were ellipses between each phrase, but instead Cary uses a succession of incomplete sentences with full stops, which small a typographical difference as that may seem, gives a very distinctive rhythm to the prose.
I loved this book: it was a window into the mind of a modern artist and (along with The Shock of the New it changed the way I looked at and understood modern art forever. It's too long since I read it to write a proper review, I should read it again!
I have this cover, that used to express the book for me. I used to thrust this cover at my friends: That is beauty. That is love. Find them inside, too. It's about a down-and-out artist, in his delapidated age. Humane.
Amazing (hence 5 Stars) tour de force telling the story of the latter stages of the life/career of artist (painter) Gulley Jimson - one of the greatest individual literary creations I've ever come across :oOHe is a "proper" artist - seeing everything in terms of his artistic temperament; obsessed; material matters such as money for food/clothes/lodgings etc being of minor importance/inconvenience; personal relationships similarly take a back-seat.
Consequently his life is a continuous switch-back rollercoaster - both hilarious and tragic at the same time.
Jimson's internal narrative is rendered with a unique style, and you genuinely feel like you have been transported into the mind of another human being.
Masterpiece.
I found this novel both brilliant and boring. The brilliance appears in flashes throughout. The narrator is an original character, low and high all at once, completely incorrigible, much like Roth's Mickey Sabbath (or vice versa). Cary also uses language marvelously. I don't know if it's a matter of Cary's style being copied so much, but after a while the prose, the observations, the personality come to seem more relentless than brilliant. And more pretentious, as well. I wanted a respite from the wild lyricism and the pitiful relationships and characters that surround Gulley Jimson.
I have read this but I ought to reread it since ALL that I remember is I liked it a lot. Why I do not remember. I remember it being humorous.
This is Tom Robbin's favorite book. Thought it worth reading for that alone. I had to order an old copy from somewhere in the midwest cause I couldn't find it around here. We'll see.
The Horse's Mouth appears on the Guardian's list of 1000 Novels Everyone Must Read, and it has also been re-issued under the NYRB imprint, so obviously it hasn't been forgotten, but I hadn't heard of Cary or this novel--possibly his most well-known--before picking up an old paperback at some library sale on the strength of Harper & Row's Perennial Library imprint from the 60s, and the fact that it was probably selling for fifty cents.
But Jimson's ruminations on the world as he finds it is worth at least fifty cents...and it doesn't begin and end with the London of 1939 either.
I can't begin to describe this book, any attempt is just a dead sketch of a vivid painting. It is roughly about a rather harmless and scoundrelly old artist, who repeatedly cons (or attempts to) everyone he knows in order to get cash to carry on his obsession with painting. It is quirky, delightful, sad, and beautiful throughout. It is poetry in its descriptions and feeling.
,,Ka zinai, gal kiekvienas paukstis, kurs nardo ore, yra didelis dziaugsmo pasaulis, atskirtas tavo penketo pojuciu?".....ir dar....,,Zmogus jauciasi daug laisvesnis, kai jis nieko nesitiki. Ir tik tada jis sugeba gyventi nesirsdamas."
There are a lot of books written by lovers of art who describe the act of painting, but don’t capture what is going on in the artist’s heart and soul during the act of painting.
For example, his descriptions of the London sky and the Thames I found to be exquisite and beautifully written.William Blake’s poetry showed up for a verse or two in many places throughout the book.
Gulley Jimson, the protagonist of The Horse’s Mouth, had a more earthy vision than characters in Blake’s universe—but the drive to crack out of the egg of convention and institutionalized thinking blazed bright—even during the last years of Jimson’s life that are portrayed in the story.Jimson operated in a world close to society’s lowest rung.
River whirling along so fast that its skin was pulled into wrinkles like silk dragged over the floor.
Ruffling under the silk-like muscles in a nervous horse".After just reading a passable thriller in which the author used the phrase "black as an ink blot" twice to describe water at night this language was as welcome as dinner.
I often, most probably too often, give 5 stars for books that I feel totally fulfilled their mission.
This one soared above in that timeless realm of books that affirm life, with no charge for extra baggage.
To blatantly namedrop, Tom Robbins suggested I read this as I had mentioned that I was reading ‘An Artists Way’ of which he had not heard.
He said the best book he had ever read of the artistic temperament was The Horse’s Mouth, now if Mr Robbins suggests one reads a book..
We meet the various women in his life along the way who he has discarded in favour of his talent, he knows he is a great artist and is following the path trodden before by William Blake.
All the world was a painting to him and I know what it is like to lose the thread of a conversation because I'm thinking of what color I would use or how I would paint the person or the sky or the scene I'm looking at.
The tone of the writing is a bit cynical and world-weary and philosophical at the same time.
Cary created an unforgettable character in Gully Jimson, a bit like John Kennedy Toole did with Ignatius in "A Confederacy of Dunces".If I were more literary, I would comment on the use of Blake's poetry and also the writing style, but I'll have to leave that to someone else.
Seemed like serendipity that I randomly chose this book from my shelf at the same time as listening to John Updike's "Seek My Face".
Both books deal with art and the relationship between the artist and philosophy.
I remember this book being published but have waited more than 50 years to read it.Perhaps I got more out of it now with my own knowledge and experience to compare with.
However, I did feel the book was longer than I would have wished....essentially his life remained the same and I did not feel any great denouement when it finished.
If you haven't met Gulley Jimson, you haven't lived. He's everything. He's wastrel and a workaholic, a genius and a simpleton. Nobody but Cary could describe him right, so I won't try. But for Pete's sake, put down that poor excuse for a book you've got in your hand, and get The Horse's Mouth! You'll be inspired and disgusted, you'll shake your head in puzzlement and you'll vow to do something a little more empassioned with your life. For anyone who gets a bang out of artists, this book is for you.
I've enjoyed what I've read of this book. I've read the first third of it, which gives me a good idea what it's about and about the writing style. I'm having some problems with the print size, even though I'm reading online, so I've decided to give the rest of the book a miss. ( I remember my parents having this book on the bookshelf when I was quite a young child, so it's quite a nice link to them to get a chance to read it. I remember as a child that I was fascinated by the title! )
Had to read this for a Modern Novel class back in 1969. Of all the books I read for the course, this was the my least favorite. Since it was up against the likes of "Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man", "Sons and Lovers", "The Magus", "Trout Fishing in America", "A Passage to India", and "The Voyeur", it suffered perhaps unfairly in comparison.
I love this book. My third time reading it. And this time I read it with a painter friend of mine, who reminds me a bit of Gulley Jimson actually. Like Gulley, my friend paints because he has to, is compelled to, if he hasn't got a paint brush in his hand, he's still painting in his mind. A beautiful, powerfully moving, very funny, utterly original book about art and the artist.
