https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58893.Briar_s_Book
Each book has a strong moral core, and they each contain messages, but this is never pushed (at least not strongly) on the reader.
You are given the information to figure it out, and those things then play out mostly as expected, but the pacing is good and the characters are good company, so rather than a chore it becomes a very pleasant experience to watch events unfold.I liked the fourth one best, slightly ahead of one and two (the fourth book being basically The Andromeda Strain - with wizards!), mostly because Briar is a somewhat more interesting character, even if he is perhaps also the most familiar character to fantasy readers.
For Briar, a large part of this book involves him interacting with bits and pieces of his old life and coming to terms with what it means for him now that heidentifies so strongly with groups of people he used to feel so far above him when he was living on the streets.That's the underlying stuff, though.
The first victim is Briar's street friend Flick, which is how he and Rosethorn end up in quarantine when they should be helping to find a cure.As always, Pierce stealthily uses her plots to examine not only characters and the ways they see the world, but to lay out a world where people interact in complex ways and power dynamics.
Again, the Full Cast Audio team have made an outstanding production. This was never my favourite of the first four stories - the focus on illness as a story-telling device is commendable, but always made me just that little bit too sad, and I prefer these stories when the relationship between the four young mages is explored. This barely happened here - the three girls feel like background characters the entire time, and I wish that wasn't so.Still - Rosethorn! Lark!
But it's not without wonder, either; Pierce describes magic in a way that thrills me to my core.
You might not assume that plant magic could be written in a way that makes your heart beat faster, but Pierce can do it.
Take note, modern grimdark fantasy novelists--it can be done!) I love that Pierce chose to step outside the easy plots of human antagonists.
It opened her plots up to include all sorts of events most authors never get to grapple with, like natural disasters and resource admininstration.
This is probably my favourite of all of Pierce's fine books for young adults.
I've always loved the books that take place in this world more than those from Tortall because this world had (has) so much more room for innovations beyond the safe formula of your standard fantasy novel.
And the series does live up to expectations - it develops and fleshes out these four young people in four eventful novels, and portrays their ever changing and growing relationships in a realistic and pretty heart-warming way.
Pierce strays from the traditional safe approach, as I mentioned earlier, by exploring themes not normally seen in YA fantasy novels.
For most of the book, Briar and Rosethorn are separated from the rest of their housemates, nursing the sick in quarantine because they were exposed to the disease.
It's a huge change from the previous books, where the four young mages and their teachers were always together.
As the book [and the disease] progresses, we see more and more of Rosethorn's layered personality, and I love it.Having a disease just be a disease, not something that was created by a malicious mage trying to wipe out a certain population for nefarious gains, is something that is rarely done in fantasy novels.
review to come :)
3.5 starsI think the key to reading the Circle of Magic and Circle Opens books has got to be audiobooks.I slogged through the first three in Circle of Magic.
And his relationship with his prickly mentor, Rosethorn.Plus, I love Lark and Rosethorn's relationship.
They are 100%, totally gay (although it is never explicitly remarked upon, there are so many very heavy hints) and I love it.
I feel like I really got to know Rosethorn in this book.
The funniest part of this book was when Crane tells the kids their masters are great mages and their reaction is I think the kids have definitely grown a lot since book 1, even if they are still immature at times.
I mean they're like 14 max at this point.
Definitely will check out the continuation series of this at some point.
ALSO THESE AUDIOBOOKS HAVE BEEN NARRATED BY TAMORA PIERCE THE WHOLE TIME AND I WAS NOT AWARE!!!!
I think of the four in the Circle of Magic quartet, this novel definitely hit me the hardest of the lot - but in the best way.In this novel, a sudden epidemic of the "blue pox" is discovered when Briar and Rosethorn go to assist with what is essentially a "free health clinic" in the Mire (slums), and Briar finds that one of his friends has come down with a mysterious illness.
There's a brief description of the struggle involved in finding a way to more safely test possible cures, and the names of the dedicates who gave up their lives in this battle.Aww, poor Tris is having to give up being mean to people.
Another is why people need to rest even when the need to work is so great.This installment, Pierce specifically states that Rosethorn, Lark, Frostpine, and Crane are great mages.
Dedicate Frostpine of the Fire Temple is a master smith-mage and Daja is his apprentice.
Peachleaf, the best midwife in Winding Circle, is the quaking dedicate who takes notes as Crane works.
Now that's what I'm talking about. This is the best of the first four Circle books, I think. Briar is the best, and the plot is juicy and suspenseful, and it's all held up by the strong emotional core of Briar's relationships with those around him. I love that these books are all about friendship. (view spoiler)[AND ROSETHORN, OMG, SOBBING. HE SAVES HER AND THEN HE PICKS HIS BIRTHDAY FOR HER OMG I CAN'T.Also, dieting kills, kids. (hide spoiler)]
It's the cutest thing, he has so much respect for her and underneath all her prickliness she loves him too and no offense but I'm crying about it.There was less of all the kids together since Briar was the very clear focus of the book (I know each kid has their own book, but not all of them have so tight a focus on that one kid as this one does), which was a shame, but we still got some good high quality Circle Time at the end so I was satisfied.Also, the development of Crane from "that grumpy mean old man we don't like" to "the same grumpy mean old man but we sort of like him now" was truly great.
This is the last book in this quartet and it's suppoded to feel like the end (although she did end up writing more about them later).
He's also a boy when the others aren't but I know there's more to it then that so I'll have to think on it.So this book brings the danger right home to roost for the four protagonists.
That first victim is his friend and he spends most of the book caring for one person after another as the entire city slowly succums to the disease.
Briar's book feels the most personal because his enemy is something he can't see or fight, but that kills people he's close to.
While each of the leading characters of the book did face a personal struggle that they overcome, it didn't necessarily make them a better person.
The last book, while emotional and has a satisfactory ending, doesn't really tie the series together.
It's very open ended.But I do love the series.
I love the characters and how original the setting is, while I think Tamora's Tortall books have more interesting plotlines, Emelan definitely wins the setting and diversity trophies.
Greatly recommend to anyone who loves Pierce's Tortall book.
I LOVE BRIAR SO MUCH
The series became dull by this book...which was sad because I was hoping for more out of Briars book...more of his backstory and his friends...mostly the book is about an epidemic that hits the area around the Circle...so I’m not absolutely thrilled with the storyline...but it had some moments between the teachers and students that are important for the series plot line...I think that I will try to read the next portion of this series...we will see how that goes.
Another series finished! This was probably my favorite book of the series. There was a lot more suspense than in the others, and we got to see different sides of the characters. Still not my favorite series by Tamora Pierce, but I will always be fond of it.
This one was more intense than the others. Briar is a very interesting character. Seeing him change and grow throughout the series was great I really enjoyed this series overall.
a MILLION STARS
4.25/4.5 stars. I loved all of the small, yet revealing moments given to these characters and the world they exist in, and having Rosethorn and Briar at the centre of this book was a delight.
Also unlike the others, Briar carries the majority of the point of view, with only a few pages here and there from the other three.Briar has made a new friend, Flick, who lives on the streets as he once did.
And when the Blue Pox comes for one of his dearest friends, Briar and the rest of the Circle must once again combine their powers to perform an impossible feat: To defeat death itself.Dedicate Crane, who was introduced in the first book, is really fleshed out in this one.
Briar and his mentor Rosethorn are caught at the epicenter of a plague outbreak in the Capital.
As with Daja's Book, this is another character-focused story.
The dynamic between the four students falls to the background, a dependable foundation; the relationship between Briar and Rosethorn takes precedence, and the fact that these characters are prickly means that their dynamic can be poignant without being saccharine.
The plot is obvious, as per series's standard, which strips away tension but doesn't little emotional harm.Briar's Book isn't really an end, both because there's another quartet and because there's little overarching plot.
But it gives this quartet satisfying emotional closure.
Can the four survive this disease with their hearts intact or have they finally met a challenge that even the bonds of their friendship cannot overcome?
I'm talking my-heart-is-in-my-throat kind of emotion.
Briar is so closed off from caring about others so it breaks my heart when he and one of the few people in the world he truly cares about comes face to face with death.
Briar's rough exterior crumbles when those he loves are in danger and it is incredible to watch him come to their defense.
And so it comes full circle with their power growing so strong when they are together that the impossible becomes possible.
I'm always surprised when this ends and says it's only been a year as the characters have grown so much and seem so much older.2017: a fitting en dot the circle of magic.
They have grown in their powers and each told a tale of the focus use.
We finish with Briar as he completes his change from Roach & a life of crime to Briar, plant Mage.
All the girls have a part to play in his journey, and, by the end he even challenges death.
I am one step closer to my personal goal of finishing up the many Tamora Pierce series that I never wrapped up before.
I will say that even though Alanna is the one that everyone seems to love, I like this series considerably more.
This book had a good first half, but I have to admit that it dragged a bit towards the end.
I think it could have spent a bit less time on the actual "medical research" involved in trying to find a cure for the plague.
Overall, the series was fun, short and surprisingly heartfelt.
Now onto the next series.
I'm glad that Briar doesn't have to stay the whole time in quarantine.
I would have been really ornery if he did.
But I suppose that Pierce couldn't have let the readers in on what goes on in the lab without at least one of her characters there.Also, I was really hoping that Briar and Tris would get together.
Sad, my love of romance, isn't it?
So sad.
Awesome.I wasn't so thrilled about going after Rosethorn, but it's totally something that Briar would do.
You can't keep your characters from doing what they need to do.
Every book in this series became less and less exciting as I became a master of predicting what-will-happen-next.
How can I predict the plot?
Easy, because it's the same plot in every book.
The only thing that changes is the central character whose name appears on the cover.
So reading all four in a row was like eating four pints of ice cream in different flavors.
By the time you get to the last pint you want to barf no matter how much you like ice cream.
That being said I've decided I'm not going to finish it and consider it read.
This book was the most emotionally charged of the whole series to me. I had liked Briar the least in the beginning because of his tough exterior but I really like how he was changed over the course of the small book. He also reminds me a lot of my young nephew William. Dealing with loss and potential loss is at such a young age is life changing. This is definitely a book I would recommend for him.
Ugh blue spot disease! Rosethorn and Briar worked hard. I love how Briar was willing to die for Rosethorn it really shows how close they've become. Edit: Added detailI really got to know Crane is this book. I still don't really like him but he's not as bad as the children think. I'm sad that Flick died, but she's probably gone to a better place. Amazed that the children were able to save Rosethorn. I don't know how but they did! O.O
