https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/488923.A_to_Z
Cats Cleaning and Zebra Zigzagging !!Great learning book for kids!
Zebra, yak and xylo I saw coming a mile away. I have no idea what a vicuña is and ugly birds is just cheating.
Another wonderful Sandra Boynton book with everything we love about her, especially the adorable illustrations! From A to Z, we see animals doing fun things to help convey alliteration to readers. And my 3 yr old twins, who are learning not only their alphabet, but the sounds that go with the alphabet letters, love this book. A great way to reinforce the letter sounds in a fun and engaging way. A big hit with our family.
It is a colorful book for a parent to read to young ones. It is also good for those learning letters to try this book. The drawings are silly.
Good book with some new words to learn that I hadn't heard before! Fun pictures. Gave it 4 stars because, as with any alphabet book at the moment, I usually can only sit still until about the letter K.
A boring but necessary part of every author's body of work?
copyright:1984Number of pages: 8 Format: Hardcoverreading level: Grades preK-1genre: Baby bookLit. requirement: ABC #2Summary:This is a simple quick read and will be entertaining to babies and toddlers.
It is a board book and there are three letters per page.
There are two words for the start of a letter the first word are animals and the second word is an action.
Response:I like this book because of how simple it is and because of what some of the animals are like Uglybirds being ugly for U.
Some of the animals are made up.
This is an entertaining book and I would recommend it.
Note: this is not my review but the review of my daughter who can't have her own goodreads but does love herself a book! Therefore I will be writing them for her. She is currently 6 months old. Mom thought this was hilarious (especially the ugly bird) but baby was unimpressed. Will revisit when older.
Most of this book is cute. It helps teach ABC's. My only two quips are 1. "U: Ugly Birds Being Ugly" is the least creative caption ever. Especially when "V: Vicuña Violining" follows, which is creative. 2. The "P" isn't all the way "painted" on so my toddler thinks it's the letter "I" and it does kind of look like the letter "I."
Simple. Fun. Per... wait, X is... wait.OK, I'm OK with that. More X animals need to be iron mongers.
I don’t think there is a Sandra Boynton book that I don’t like! This one has cute drawings, alliteration, and colorful ABCs!
Another fabulous addition to the collection of ABC books. This one from the ever-humorous Sandra Boynton. Also can be used to teach alliteration and rhyming.
I definitely consider this a classic for your child's bookshelf - regardless of the intention and purpose of your library, a good solid book about the alphabet is a necessity!
cute alphabetical animals!
Each letter is depicted with a noun and a verb starting with that letter. Letter recognition and vocabulary expansion, plus it's cute!
Cute, and with some humor worked in. I don't like U: ugly birds being ugly. I humbly submit an alternative: uakari ululating.
I HATE the letters U (Ugly Birds?! Why not Unicorns??), X (what is a xylo?) and Q (Quail Quacking?? why not questioning or quivering).
Not as good as Boynton's A is for Angry, but still a good A-Z book.
Love her, this one just doesn't compare to her others
Sandra Boynton presents the alphabet in the way only she can.There's no shortage of ABC books in the world, but Sandra Boynton's spin is just as fun and slightly whimsical as expected. There are a couple head-scratching moments, but that's all part of the charm.
A to Z by Sandra Boynton follows her trademark silly animal characters cavorting through the alphabet in this boardbook.Boynton's funny animal characters take us through the alphabet.
Only large case letters are used.I found this funny and whimsical in a good way, but think that it would be improved in a larger format where the details can be seen better.
A bigger font could also be a plus, allowing lower case letters to be shown.
For ages 1 to 5.5, alphabet, animals, humor, board book, alliteration, and fans of Sandra Boynton.
A to Z is a simple alphabet picture book, written and illustrated by Sandra Boynton.
The book has no plot line or character development, but teaches the alphabet in a fun and creative way.
The illustrations are great and would offer a young child a great interest in learning the alphabet.
Because each letter is paired with a specific animal starting with the respective letter, children will be able to make strong connections and use the animal associations as a great tool to learn and remember the alphabet!
I would use this book for young children begining to learn their alphabet.
I have to admit, I kind of prefer this version to Dr. Seuss's ABC book.
While both are silly and obviously meant for small children, it seems that Boynton did a better job of keeping it entertaining and to the point.
There is also the bonus that we have this in board book format where the other one has normal paper pages.
Obviously that makes this one more resilient for our toddler to play with on her own aside from actual reading time.
Overall, it's a fun and cute collection to Boynton's board books.
We read this book during storytime and Cooper reads the letter and Alyssa will often copy him.
One activity I thought would be educational would be to say each activity listed in a past tense form, a future tense form, and then the present tense form in the book, pointing out the "ing" suffix.
Another thing I might do is have the kids think of other things the animals could be doing that start with the same letter, like instead of Lion Leaving it could be Lion laughing, Lion lying, Lion losing.
In this way I could emphasize the beginning sounds.
I loved this book because not only would it be great for teaching letter recognition and letter sounds it also has two words that begin with each letter. I really like this book because it has animals doing something for each letter of the alphabet. I would love to see this go along side the projects where you make the letter of the week into an animal because I think young kids would learn a lot not only from the book but the lessons that could continue.
Every child should own a Sandra Boynton book. Not so much for the writing, although, I certainly wouldn't fault it, but for the illustrations. Her work is instantly recognizable, deceptively simple, and inimitable. Not that I'm especially interested in drawing cartoon characters, but I wish I could say as much for my work. One of her books is an instant pick-me-up, for the adult reading and the child listening, and, of course, looking.
1. A to Z By Sandra Boynton2. Awards: None3. Genre: ABC Book4. Setting: Outside, where all the animals gather5. Like all abc books this one can be easily integrated into the classroom. It offers different animals and things which begins with the letter. It is a great lower level reading book. I could also get ideas from this book for words to put underneath the alphabet which will be displayed in the classroom.
Very creative way of teaching kids the alphabet but yet some of the words might be to hard for the kids to say. The pictures are very cute!! She did a great job with the book overall. This book will be easy for kids to carry, and turn the page because its nice and thick board book. Kids will learn some new words, some will challenge themselves saying some of them.
Another ABC book. This one is a board book in which each letter represents an animal and an action ("Frogs Frowning," "Moose Mowing," etc.) Boynton had to stretch it quite a bit with V and X in this one (Vicuña Violinning," "Xylo Xylophoning.") At least she got a little funnier with "U": "Ugly Birds being Ugly."
This letter book is a lot of fun as it conveys multiple images of anmials doing funny activities. "Aardvark admiring, beavers ballooning, cats cleaning" This book is focusing on alliteration. The animals included are beyond the scope of common animals, which is good for students to increase vocabulary. This book can be used to teach letter sound.
