https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/474858.A_Bad_Case_of_Stripes
David Shannon takes care in making each character as colorful as they can be and masterfully illustrates Camilla’s odd situation by adding vivid colors to each transformation that Camilla takes on.
The story teaches people that no matter what anyone says about you, you should always be yourself no matter what.“A Bad Case of Stripes” is truly a book that can not be missed and the story’s heroine, Camilla, clearly defines the meaning of peer pressure sometimes having positive or negative influences on people.
I realize it is very, very popular but my daughter has a great imagination and now she is very scared of eating orange, green, and blue foods.
Now in 1st grade I have warned her new teacher however I know it is in the classroom and she is scared of it.
She is dreading lunchtime tomorrow when he will finish the book (and go through the part where the girl is all stripes).(She ended up eating lunch in the school office that day so she wouldn't have to hear the story.)SO if you have a sensitive child like I do, I urge some caution with this book.
What an absolutely wonderful book!
Camilla is scared what people will think of her on her first day of school, but it turns out she doesn't need to worry because she comes down with a case of the stripes, her whole body looking like a brightly colored rainbow.
Halfway through reading this with my children I felt like the kid in the back of the class that's going "Ooh!
(Why do I get an image of Horshack and the sweathogs when I say that, and jeez, did that date me?) Anyway, we loved this book, and highly recommend it.
I know that this is popular and I get what the book is trying to say about not worrying about what other people think, but I was freaking terrified of this book when I was a kid.
In fact, I'm still creeped out to this day.
The visuals and some of the stuff that happened to the main character was just terrifying.
It's not a bad book, it really isn't, but it scared the crap out of me and I will not go anywhere NEAR that book.
So a big round of applause to you who love this book, cuz I sure as hell didn't.
This is a fun and colorful, very colorful!, book with a great message about not being afraid to be true to yourself and not caring so much about what other people think of you. It uses humor in a way that’s fun for kids, and the moral is clear but doesn’t overpower the story. The story seemed to end slightly too abruptly to me, but overall it was very enjoyable.
Wow. The artwork for this is really nice, but the message is what really struck me as amazing. The story is basically about how conformity destroys your individuality. In simpler terms, not doing something you really love because everyone thinks it's weird (like eating lima beans) turns you into something you're not (like a striped girl with a tail and tree trunk legs). Such a great story.
Summary: Camilla Cream likes lima beans, but when she gets made fun of for liking them, she gets embarrassed and tells her family that she no longer wants to eat them.
Camilla discovers the only cure to actually eat what others make fun of her for, the lima beans, and when she does she turns back into regular old Camilla.
Response: I loved the message in this book and think it would be great for those third and fourth graders who are beginning to feel pressure from their peers.
The story gives the message that is it okay to be an individual and important to do so.
http://dms.booklikes.com/post/382120/...
Cool
Shannon's illustrations are BEAUTIFUL. Just look at that detail and colors!Also, the message is simple but powerful: stay true to yourself. If I ever had a motto, that probably would be it, haha!Interestingly, Camilla Cream's stripes on the front cover (as well as the six colors on the back cover) look a lot like an LGBT pride flag (though the order of the colors is slightly different), which adds a significant layer of meaning to the book's message :)
An excellent tale which recommends being yourself, liking the stuff you like, and not losing yourself in trying to be what others want you to be. It’s an excellent lesson for kids to hear and one that we adults still need to hear as well.
Maybe you need to be a child or a parent to appreciate this book.
Things get worse and worse (think Dali), and finally a random old lady suggests Camilla eat lima beans, and everything snaps back to normal.So I guess the moral is to let your freak flag fly.
Camilla doesn't want to ask her dad for lima beans because she's already been laughed at.
how did she know about the lima beans?
This book is awful.
It teaches awful things like one can be punished by being dehumanized, doctors will hurt you, being different will cause bullying, and being sick or having a disease is shameful, and that no one can save you.
My 4 year old son was TRAUMATIZED by this book.
He literally would not go to school where this book was stored.
Even after the school removed the book we dealt with the aftermath for months.
If your child is young enough to not truly process the meaning behind this book or old enough to be able to rationalize it then they will probably like it.
Such a cute story! this is a wonderful story
It also freaked Little One out.
He told me he really didn’t want to read this but we both decided to conquer our fear and read the book.
Little one was amazed by the illustration.
I felt like they complimented the story absolutely beautifully.
I personally loved the idea that the author brought to the story, which is to be you and not to fall into peer pressure.
I know Little One may struggle with this in August when he begins kinder so I felt like this was a great book to open up the discussion of peer pressure.
Although this book first became popular when I was in Elementary school, it still remains a piece of literature that is still read in classrooms today.
For example, the book contains a message that teaches its readers about the struggles to conform, dealing with peer pressure and the importance of being kind to one another.
Because the message in this book is so universal, it could be used for practically any elementary grade level, but I would personally use it in my Kindergarten classroom during a read aloud.
It would be a great book to read the first week of school to help set classroom norms of kindness and respect for peers.
I can incorporate the message of the story into a fun writing activity where students make poems about unique things that they love about themselves.
In younger grades (k-1) students can draw and create their own character with the case of the stripes, and match the coloring and illustrations again with unique qualities about themselves.
I think incorporating writing, drawing and creativity into activities that make children proud of the things they do and enjoy is great way I can use this book in the classroom.This is a wow book for me because of the beautiful illustrations and descriptions, the vibrant pops of color, and the wonderful underlying message.
I think this book is pretty clever, but one reading of it has broken my 3 year old. She has been afraid to go to bed for the past few nights because of the "wiggly things" in this book. I donated it to the library to get it out of our house so I could promise her with a clean conscience that there were no wiggly things in our house.
Very thoughtful book .... I was very worried about comilia .... But the end was the best part of the book... Very colorful and art is very beautiful
Camilla Cream is so frustrated on the first day of school.
So many people try to help her and cure the stripes but each time it only gets worse and worse.
Until an old sweet lady offered her help and she gave Camilla lima beans which cured everything.
This is a good book to use at the beginning of the school year.
We need to let our students know to be theirself and not do things to please others.
This is also a book that can be used as a strategy of showing students how things are put together (even themselves).
I never knew why until now!This book would be a great read-aloud to elementary aged students.
This book would be engaging as a read aloud as children could make predictions as the story is read, as well as be soaked in by the vivid pictures.This would tie in great to social-emotional curriculum.
The story is about a girl who loves Lima Beans, but stops eating them after she is teased.
The only cure is to eat the lima beans she loves!
This story is a great introduction to speaking with children about why it is important to be yourself.
Camilla Cream loves lima beans, but decides not to eat them because everyone else thinks they’re gross and she wants to fit in.
As the days go on, the stripes get worse and worse and change to represent anything imaginable including a checkerboard and clouds.
The old lady gives her lima beans and she magically turns back into herself.
Camilla decides to eat lima beans, even if everyone else thinks they’re gross—she no longer cares so much about fitting in because she would rather just be herself.
They represent the text perfectly and put images in the reader’s head that are beyond imaginable.
My daughters is eight years old and this book absolutely freaked her out.
I recommend teachers reconsider using this book as my daughter feels is totally ruined her first month of school and she really does want to go to school now because of this book.
To make it worse the teacher made a project of this and is posting on the classroom walls classroom walls.
We are fried everything that we know to do and are reaching out to a therapist to see if we can hope for better cope with what she saw in this book.
Breaking my strict rule about avoiding David Shannon books, I checked this one out after I noticed that almost every goodreads friend I have is reading it or wants to read it. The illustrations are AMAZING. Perhaps the best I've ever seen in a picture book. The story is . . . meh. It's a little too old for Catherine, and kind of saccharine. A pretty standard version of the just-be-yourself bit.
I read this to my second graders and they absolutely loved it!
I finally got around to reading this classic. It did not disappoint!
Not only is each page filled with bright colors and a lot of detail but it teaches a lesson of being your true self. This is a great picture book to use with older students!
This is a silly book, but it taught me a good lesson. The lesson is be your self.
So cute
I absolutely love this book. It was one of my favorites as a kid. The illustrations are positively marvelous. The colors are vivid and the pictures themselves are just beautiful. I love the illustrator's style and the pictures compliment the story perfectly. The book doesn't take long to read, but it's not a beginner's book either. I wouldn't give it to a kindergartener or maybe even a first grader. The story is funny and inspiring. It's well-written and the kind of story I'd want to tell my children one day. A favorite!Re-read: 1/3/17
I really enjoyed reading the story of how Camilla Cream came down with such a horrible case of stripes!Camilla Cream was very concerned about how her classmates perceived her.
On the morning of Camilla's first day of school, she came down with a horrible case of stripes.
The old lady made Camilla eat lima beans and her stripes went away!
From that day on, Camilla stood with her shoulders high, and ate lima beans.
She was unashamed of what her peers thought of her because anything was better than that awful case of stripes!This book is incredible!
Text-to-SelfThis book about a girl who is afraid to eat lima beans because she doesn't want to seem 'weird' or 'different' (since others don't like limas) really spoke to me, as I went through similar feelings in my pre-teen/early teen years.
Once I discovered that everyone has their own unique selves and THAT was cool, I allowed myself to enjoy my own likes and desires and didn't try to force things upon myself that weren't interesting to me, even though it may have been to others.
They already seem stronger than I was at their age and embrace their quirks and interests more than I did, although they still struggle sometimes with feeling they don't fit in, etc.
David Shannon once again himself with this book.
A bad case of stripes is a cautionary tale about how conforming to what is "popular" or "cool" is not what is always best for you.
If you're anything like our character Camilla, you'll end up with a bad case of stripes.
Shannon's Illustration style varies differently from his "No, David!" series in that it is more realistic an vivid, and less childish.
Camilla learns the hard way that liking something that is uncool is okay, but you have to stand up for it and not conform to what others like.
A Bad Case of Stripes is a book about Camilla Cream whom loved lima beans, but never ate them because she wanted to be able to fit in with her friends.
The next day at school Camilla turned into stripes and stars during the pledge and kids began to laugh calling out different shapes and colors and watched as Camilla changed.
Another teaching point for this book would be for students to make a chart of ordinary problems that kids have such as worrying about what others think.
(KidLit ED204 category: illustrator project)"A Bad Case of Stripes" is a different type of story than the "No, David!" books that David Shannon is known for.
This book is more appropriate for a little bit older kids in our age group.
This is the story of Camilla Cream, a little girl who is so worried about everyone thinks.
A great story to show children that it's okay to just be you and to do something just because YOU like it.
Don't worry about what everyone else thinks, or you too may end up with a bad case of the stripes!The illustrations in this book are SO colorful!
I remember being a little girl who did not want to be away from her mother, even when she had the chicken pox.
So of course, I also ended up with the chicken pox.
There are so many things to discuss with children in this book.
We can talk about signs and symptoms, how you look and feel when you are sick.
We can talk about who we turn to for advice when we get sick.
We can also talk about the importance of being proud of who we are and embracing the things we like.
Finding herself in a place where she valued the opinions of her peers and the challenge of "fitting in" rather than just enjoying what she liked caused her to stand out more than ever.
Camilla stopped eating foods that she loved and dressed a certain way to please everyone at school, but that didn't mean they were her true friends.After coming down with the case of "the stripes", Camilla was taunted by her peers and was forced to stay home until it cleared up.
This is a great story of "fitting in" is not always the in thing, because it can cause you to stand out in the most unexpected ways.
This is a book about bullying but it addresses it in a unique way.The little girl Camilla is covered in stripes which change colour every time a child laughs at her.
this book has brilliant artwork full of vivid and bright colours which help bring the children's imagination to life.
the old woman helped Camilla over come her stripes by feeding her lima beans.
This is a classic example to children on how they should always stay true to themselves.
This helps shows the children qualities such as: courage and resilience.
"When her class said the Pledge of Allegiance, she turned red, white, and blue, and she broke out in stars!" A Bad Case of Stripes is about a girl who finds out that "fitting in" isn't all it's cracked up to be.
The other kids at school don't like them, and Camila just want to fit in.
Camila is sent home from school after she starts turning different colors.
The anti-peer pressure message would be highly beneficial to discuss in a classroom of students, ages 5-9.
Students can also discuss bullying, and whether or not it is okay to treat someone different because they have stripes.
Camilla Cream loves lima beans but doesn’t like to eat them because all her friends dislike them.
On the first day of school, Camilla ends up with stripes.
Dr. Bumble tells her she is cleared to attend school.
When she attends school, her stripes get worse.
The very few tertiary characters are the kids at school, the scientists, and the experts.
The setting of A Bad Case of Stripes is at Camilla’s school and house.
A cultural implication that children can take away from this book is that we should not let what people do or say change who we are.
This book shows the importance of being true to yourself and not always caring what others think of you.
The little girl in the book is so worried of what other people will think of her, she ends up losing herself.
"A Bad Case of the Stripes" could be used in the classroom for read-alouds or for an individual read to help students remember that it is okay to be different.
I think it shows the importance of being true to who you are and that it is okay to be true to who you are.
It’s such a simple story and I really think that the images really help make it something a bit more fun than simply telling someone to be who they want to be, not who others want you to be.I love the art style in this as well.
That being said…some of the images are a little, freaky.
So this might be a good one to skip if you have a child prone to anxiety.However I think for older grade levels like 1st or so grade, it might be good to share along with what the story truly means.
This is a story about a girl who gets a bad case of the stripes because she cares too much about what others think.
She tries on forty two different outfits for school because there are "so many people to impress." The next morning, she wakes ups with stripes from head to toe.
The next day she wakes up and is normal again because she stopped caring about what other people though and started listening to her own mind.
It helps students understand the importance of staying true to them self and not worrying so much about what other people think.
New York: Blue Sky Press.In his lighthearted fantasy A Bad Case of Stripes, David Shannon explores the impact of peer pressure and social conformity on the young protagonist Camilla Cream, a lima bean enthusiast who doesn't want to be teased for her passion.
The nonsensical events that Camilla endures—skin changing into a rainbow of stripes, growing a fuzzy tail, and eventually turning into a room with pictures for eyes and a bed for a mouth—could never happen in our real world, but Shannon makes them believable.
First, Camilla Cream rejects lima beans (even though they're her favorite) because she worries the other students in her class will make fun of her.
Camilla is so anxious about the first day of school and what her classmates will think of her, that she breaks out in "a bad case of stripes!" her doctor says.
Her world is then turned upside down when her skin and body begins to morph in various ways.
While very silly and over-the-top with the very bizarre changes Camilla endures, this book has a strong message: Being true to oneself and to not allow others to change your values or who you are.
