https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97898.The_Full_Cupboard_of_Life
Another charming book from the series of #1 ladies detective agency. Better than its previous one, Mma Ramotswe and her band of piers continue enjoying each other, get in and out of stressful commitments, cherish their land and it's cattle, contemplate the virtues of men, women and proper behavior, and of course, a cup of tea on a hot day.
You and I, Mma. We remind men of how things used to be in Botswana before these modern-shaped ladies started to get men all confused." The word "traditional" is used throughout the book to refer to large women.
This is a great site where you can actually hear these words spoken aloud: www.gov.bw/tourism/culture_and_his/la...This is the first book I've read in the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series, but I am looking forward to reading the others.
I'm not really interested in the case Mma Ramotswe is working on, but I do enjoy reading about life in Africa and the little pearls of wisdom all the characters share with one another.

With the state of the American govt being what it is and with civility and decency seemingly in such short supply, this series is medicine for my spirit and a reminder that goodness and kindness exist in the world.
I don't think this is one of my favorite books in the series, but they all kind of read as one long story in many ways.
I don't read for the "mystery" aspect, I read because I love these characters and I enjoy spending time with them.
***Second read***There is so much to love about this series.
Mma Rwatse continues to wonder why her fiancée is so reluctant to tie the knot, while taking on a case for a rich woman who wants Precious to check out several beaus to see who is after her money and who is honest.
One can feel the series beginning to run out of steam.
How many times can the author laud the benefits of a traditional culture before it sounds a bit like a broken record?
We wonder why it is that Precious and Matekoni’s adopted son is so anti-social.
If you are new to the series.
With each book that goes by, the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series seems to feel more confident, more assured and somehow more relaxed.
By this stage, the author has an almost perfect grasp of his background and characters, and there is so little to add about the situation that he has plenty of time for ruminations on various aspects of modern life.
I noticed plenty of humour in this one, especially from the characters of the two apprentices, who are the most entertaining in the entire book.
This is a feel good book that should have a place on every literature fan's shelf.
Nothing much happens in this particular book, The Full Cupboard of Life, that is until the plot picks up steam toward the end, but the characters are still captivating and the depiction of life in Botswana draws the reader in.
Andrew McCall Smith gives sweet-natured characters flaws, a smart move on his part.
Otherwise, Precious Ramotswe and Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni and the other people who populate the pages of this series would be too saccharine to swallow.
McCall Smith, as usual, meanders his way to a satifying conclusion and the reader is left wanting more of this mostly peaceful life in this sunny, sky-filled foreign land.
עוד ספר מוצלח בסדרה המהנה של אלכסנדר מק'קול סמית.
One of the best parts of  Alexander McCall Smith’s series is that each book improves in terms of character definition and advancing the plot.
The author hints at the distinctions we must draw between manipulation and persuasion (in the character of Mma Potokwane), fear and caution (with Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni’s never-ending engagement to Mma Ramotswe), and speaking one’s mind and biting one’s tongue (aptly expressed in the character of Mma Makutsi.)	Fans of the series who may by this time be frustrated with a lack of resolution to certain issues, will be slightly pacified in this book.
By Book 3, the author seems to have pulled up his proverbial chair and can now dialogue comfortably with his characters.
2016 Reading Challenge #37: Sobre una cultura con la que no estoy familiarizado.
Me pareció lindo conocer, a través de una novela de ficción, la cultura de uno de los países de África.
Mma Ramotswe es detective, sin embargo en este libro no encontré nada increíble con respecto a su profesión o llegué a entender por qué era tan aclamada, pero claro, este es el quinto libro de una saga y ya supongo que esa parte pasó.
PD: Una amiga me regaló este libro en mi cumpleaños y ni ella, ni yo, sabíamos que formaba parte de una saga.
Non è il primo dei libri dedicati alla signora Ramotswe che leggo, e lo faccio sempre con estremo piacere.Si legge fra le righe un grande amore,una sottile nostalgia per le tradizioni e le consuetudini di quel grande continente che è l'Africa.La sensazione che rimane dopo la lettura è quella di volersi trovare a Gaborone, a prendere il tè rosso con la signora Ramotswe, col sole sul viso e i rumori che provengono dall'officina del signor JLB Matekoni di sottofondo.
The Full Cupboard of Life has rightfully earned a spot on my favourites shelf. Readers will want to devour this book in one sitting. This story brims with warmth and wit. Smith has a deep understanding about human nature and all its eccentricities, and writes with tenderness and humour - a formidable trait in a writer! 5 stars.
I love these books. I can't believe it took me so long to start reading them, even though my mom has read them all. Thanks for the recommendation, Mom!
We continue to learn about Botswana, but the time has come for the author to stop repeating the characters history in each and every book.
We also get a very satisfactory ending with regards to Mma. Ramotswe and Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni, but other than this the author has pretty much let down his loyal readers.I know, I know, these books are published about one year apart and I have read the first five in short order, but any fan of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency knows the format, the history and most of the rather simplistic plots and cases that resolved.
The time has come to shake up this series and hopefully book 6 will be a better effort.
This series generally serves me well as brain candy interspersed among my more serious reads.
Though they are generally rather similar, they are always entertaining.However, for some reason the author has decided in this book he needs to summarize all the preceeding storyline in greater detail.
******Having read about halfway through, my opinion of this book has not changed.
This book does not focus on the adventures of Mma Ramotswe et al.
I'll finish it out, but I hope the next book returns to the format McCall Smith started with!*******Having finished, my opinion remains the same.
There is nothing new here, but then I didn't expect it. That's OK. When I choose a No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency book, I'm prepared for a little bit of detective work, but now each book seems to be more about relationships and life too. Very relaxing and enjoyable read, as always. But what fun that there is a wedding at the end. I never get tired of these people and am looking forward to finding out what happens next in their world.
Ive read these all because they are absolutely charming, laid-back atmosphere stories. McCall Smith is one of those who have a rare ability to write as if he was a woman. His stories influenced me to become a regular rooibos drinker.
I´ve read these all because they are absolutely charming, laid-back atmosphere stories. McCall Smith is one of those who have a rare ability to write as if he was a woman. His stories influenced me to become a regular rooibos drinker.
Why do I keep reading these? This series is like being at a family reunion, and you’re stuck listening to your relatives talking all around you. It’s so boring, but you can’t just leave!
С удоволствие чета книжките от тази поредица на Алекзандър Маккол Смит. Уж непретенциозни, нито драматични, нито откровено хумористични, но някак благи, мъдри истории, пропити от човещина и истински.Няма нужда да ходите на психотерапевт, ако чувствате тревожност или просто нещо в ежедневието ви прави раздразнителни. Вземете една от тези вълшебни книжки за живота на маа Прешъс Рамотсве и неусетно ще погледнете с други очи на живота. Ще си спомните кое е действително важното, ще се усетите пречистени и по-добри, дори има опасност да заобичате ближния.Продължавам със следващите книги от поредицата. Пристрастяващи са.
A nice pleasant read.
Mma Ramotswe is not sure she understands why a woman would want to have four boyfriends, but she is more than willing to help.
Mma Potokwani, the woman who runs the orphanage, where he met his two foster children, is able to talk him into a skydiving event to raise money.
With the help of Charlie, one of Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni's apprentices, she will find a solution that will not leave him with shame and allow the orphange to still get its money.It is always a pleasure to visit with these characters and see where the story is going to take them, and the readers along with them.
I can see myself sitting under a big acacia tree , sipping bush tea:) In this one ,Mma Ramotswe manages to persuade Charlie , the apprentice at speedy motors to make a parachute jump in place of Mr J L B Matekoni who is terrified to do it himself , but has given a word.
But it will have to be done carefully , and he will think that he has changed his mind." :) love it .
Hats off to Mma Ramotswe and Alexander Mccall Smith!
What a lovely time I had during this visit with my friends in Botswana this week.
This audio is just one of the best, with the best narrator in Lisette Lecat.
This is no big, dark, mystery like some detective books.
It is a gentle, human interest story filled with wonderful characters.
I'm totally hooked on this but spread the stories out so I won't finish them too quickly, I want to savor them.As I saw that the book was coming to a close, I wondered how there was enough time to finish the story.
This series kind of makes me want to go to Botswana.
What's not to love about this sweet series?
There may be a little more mystery here than usual, but don't read these books for the mystery.
Read them for the setting, Botswana, and for the engaging characters, who have some major, but universal, life changes during this edition.
This may also be my favorite series for the times I just want to read for the comfort and sheer joy of reading.
The characters drink a lot of bush tea, and that seems especially fitting for a series that seems to call for curling up in a cozy chair with a nice cup of hot tea.
My favorite quote of all time from these books ...."Traditional Botswana men like ladies who are more traditionally shaped. You and I, Mma. We remind men of how things used to be in Botswana before these modern-shaped ladies started to get men all confused." Love it and the sweet characters in this book - something so happy and comfortable to read.
Anytime you have been involved with reading that is heavy or depressing an excellent way to take a break is to visit Botswana and Precious Ramotswe. This is the fifth of McCall Smith's series and an excellent read.
I get warm fuzzies each time I read a book from this series. I love getting to know more tidbits about the lives of the characters, especially Mma Ramotswe, Mr. JLB Matekoni, and Mma Makutsi. The descriptions of Botswana are wonderful. Its feels like I'm right there drinking Bush Tea. :D
This was the last of the series I would ever attempt. It was too much like all the others so I finally gave up and decided I would never pick up another. Never have!! This was in 2005.
This is the first book in the series that I found to be somewhat disappointing, and all because of the actions of one character, Mma Potokwane, the matron of the orphan farm.
I know she professes to do things to 'help' people, but to me, it's more that she likes to control those around her, and unfortunately Mr. Matekoni lets her get away with it.As always, there is some mystery, but the book is more the story of the characters' lives and what they have made of themselves.
For those not familiar with the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, it is in Gaborone Botswana.
For instance, in The Full Cupboard of Life by Alexander McCall Smith, the lady detectives investigate four suitors perusing a rich lady entrepreneur, while also dealing with an incompetent auto repair shop and a high-pressure charity fundraiser.
Note that these description sound more dangerous than the actual events.If you are looking for a pleasant sojourn away from the stress and challenges of the world, I can highly recommend a delightful vacation to Botswana where the biggest concern is finding the next cup of bush tea.For my book club report see: http://1book42day.blogspot.com/2017/1...
