https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/236819.March_Violets
”Back in the bedroom, she was still standing there, waiting for me to come and help myself. Impatient of her, I snatched her knickers down, pulling her onto the bed, where I prised her sleek, tanned thighs apart like an excited scholar opening a priceless book. For quite a while I pored over the text, turning the pages with my fingers and feasting my eyes on what I had never dreamed of possessing.”I have to appreciate the fact that Bernhard “Bernie” Gunther compares having sex with a beautiful
To run like that was the meaning of the earth, and if ever there was a master race it was certainly not going to exclude someone like Jesse Owens.”The Nazis are even letting books that have been previously banned reappear in local bookshops.
The case takes Bernie places he never wanted to be, like in the middle of a power play between Hermann Goering and Heinrich Himmler.
It is truly a scary time for all German people, even those who feel like they are in the favored groups.
Según el Evening Standard esta novela es: "Tensa, brutal, áspera, creíble y apasionante". Y no puedo más que darles la razón. Últimamente me he aficionado a leer alguna que otra novela policiaca, pero si me decidí a leer ésta fue porque pasaba en la Alemania nazi. Y no me ha defraudado. He podido percibir el día a día de esa época, la corrupción del Estado y lo que es peor, leer sobre las atrocidades de un campo de concentración.
Berlin Noir.March Violets, Philip Kerr’s 1992 introduction to German detective Bernard Gunther is a deliciously dark journey through the 1936 Berlin underground.
When a German steel magnate calls with a high paying job, Gunther is dragged into more than he bargained for.Author Kerr has chosen as his setting 1936 Berlin, amidst the corruption and decadence of the early Nazi regime.
Kerr spares his reader none of the ugliness of the times while guiding his readers through a back alley view of a murder investigation that goes wrong.Kerr’s writing pays tribute to the Noir writers of the past while making allowances for modern insensitivities.
This is a case in which the first in a great series has significant flaws, but represents an essential read to set the context and history of the lead character.PI Bernie Gunther makes a pretty good business tracking down people who have disappeared.
He’s pretty much a lech, which leads him to trysts whenever the opportunity comes up.Thus, you can see a classic noir plot in an unusual setting of Nazi Germany.
The latter is the start of a relationship that sets his path in subsequent books in the series, of which I have only read one.Aside from limitations in the depth of Kerr’s new hero in this book, the biggest writing sin is the excessive use of Chanderesque similes.
In Hitler's Berlin, He is never short of work." A thriller with an interesting setting but the author's numerous wisecracks became a bit tiresome and just didnt float my boat overall.
I am not a fan of private Eye style thrillers which become a series but I choose this book because it was set in Berlin during the Winter of 1936 and thought the setting for a crime novel in Nazi Germany could work and be really interesting.
"March Violets"  (Märzveilchen): a term of derision used by the "Old Fighters" (Alte Kämpfer) to refer to those who "opportunistically" joined up with the Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (aka the  Nazi Party ) only after the Enabling Act  (Ermächtigungsgesetz) was passed in March of 1933, which, effectively gave  Chancellor Adolph Hitler  unprecedented power over the people of the Reich (kind of the equivalent of johnny-come-lately/n00b, but in Nazi Germany).* We meet our detecti
unprecedented power over the people of the Reich (kind of the equivalent of johnny-come-lately/n00b, but in Nazi Germany).*
, in a Berlin chock full of March Violets now well-practiced in their party loyalty after three years of the world of the Third Reich (if math isn't your strong suit, that means it's 1936).
Nonetheless, the case handed to him (rich guys apparently love to kidnap PIs in limousines at odd hours regardless of place and time) has Bernie testing his luck, as he interferes with the rich, famous and powerful (which, to no one's surprise, involves high-ranking Nazi officials).Author 
Having recently read the latest Bernie Gunther novel, “Greeks Bearing Gifts,” I was saddened to read of the death of Philip Kerr.
Oddly, at first, Bernie has an American accent, but then, I suppose he is modelled on an old fashioned, gumshoe – the original, world weary, wise cracking, private detective.
The fictional world that Kerr created with such care, is also peopled by real, historical characters, such as Goering and Heydrich.
I am very grateful for all the further adventures we did have to read – I never tired of reading the world that Kerr created and I enjoyed going back to the original, and first, adventure.
In this setting we encounter Bernhard Gunther, formerly of the police, now a private investigator specializing in finding things and people who are missing---a potentially lucrative area now.One of my favorite scenes occurs as Bernie meets Hermann Goering in what is a wonderful parody of the times and men.
'I've always wanted to meet a real private detective.'he said.
And do you carry a gun, Herr Gunther?' 'Sometimes, sir, when I think I might need it.' Goering beamed like an excited schoolboy.
Very good noir novel set in Nazi Germany. Kerr clearly knows the noir detective formula, and the setting is well-done. It feels immersive, not forced.
As Nate Heller is to American P.I. noir; as Arkady Renko is to Russian P.I. noir; Philip Kerr’s Bernie Gunther is to Nazi-era P.I. noir.The words come fast; the cultural references are piled on one another; and our P.I. gets the worst of many encounters.
Everyone in Germany was somebody different before March 1933.”“The interesting thing about the rich is that they like to be told where to get off.
The shoddy little man in the barely furnished office, who drinks like a suicide who’s lost his nerve, and who comes to the assistance of the beautiful but mysterious woman in black….You might not believe it,” he said, “but I have a passion for detective stories.”
You felt the twang and itch of syphilis in your tail just looking at her.All of this description is for a woman who appears for a page and a half in the book, and most of those lines are dedicated to this flowery 'hard-boiled' prose.
Just look for some of the words in bold on goodreads and you'll find more examples of the type of writing that makes me want to do an Oedipus to my eyes.
I feel awful that I've used this book as a go to recommendation for people looking for a 'smart' mystery / thriller set in WWII or historical or something like that.
After complaining that I was running out of re-reads from Raymond Chandler's oeuvre of Philip Marlowe mysteries, a friend suggested that I take a look at the noir novels of Philip Kerr's Berlin detective Bernie Gunther.
Methadone would be better than nothing.I began with "March Violets," Kerr's first effort at finding his voice with Bernie Gunther and this genre.
Still, I had to admit that he is almost as good as Chandler so I am a happy reader.This history nerd is giving Kerr an extra star for setting this novel in 1936 Germany.
The late Philip Kerr is best known for his Berlin Noir series featuring Bernhard ‘Bernie’ Gunther.
They are well-respected historical mysteries, taking place mostly in Berlin during the years just before, during and after WWII.March Violets is the first of the Bernie Gunther novels and takes place in 1936—there is the lead-up to the Olympic Games, the star runner Jesse Owens, and Hitler consolidating power through his control of the SS and Gestapo.
This is definitely a dark novel featuring some lurid violence.
March Violet is book one of the Bernie Gunther series by Philip Kerr.
The readers of March Violet will go on a roller coaster ride with Bernie Gunther to find out who killed Grete and Paul Pfarr.
March Violets is the first book I have read of Philip Kerr, and I love it.
The readers of March Violets will learn about being a private investigator in Berlin in 1936.
"March Violets" highlight for the readers how people lived in Berlin in 1936.I recommend this book.
That was a slang term for opportunistic Germans who raced to jump on the Nazi bandwagon once Adolph Hitler came to power in March 1933.
Philip Kerr paints an eye-opening picture of Germany in 1936, with widespread corruption and terror.
Berlin ex-cop-turned-private eye Bernhard Gunther is cynical, wisecracking and determined as his search for missing diamonds leads him into a number of other misdeeds — including some by the highest levels of the Third Reich.
Needless to say, March violets play a big role.Readers will love this gripping novel (also released as Berlin Noir) that introduces a fine series.
A homage to and an evolution of the classic noir detective novel in one.This is a fabulously entertaining story of corruption and intrigue in Nazi Germany investigated by a strong and interesting character in Bernie Gunther.
It's not cool, all of them are great lines but still when there's 4 per page you start to grow tired of it.I'm very excited to know there's quite a large series of Bernie Gunther books on my bookcase waiting to be read, especially as Leah tells me they get better as Kerr gets in to the swing of writing them.
A problem the novel has is that this latter aspect is often far more interesting, and far more effectively portrayed, than the noirish plot itself; I came away from the novel with a real sense that Nazism was soul-destroying in a far more wholesale manner than simply its policies of mass murder (barely getting into action by the time of this book), with not just the obvious victims of its viciousness being brutalized but also all the Germans who either obeyed mindlessly or -- the "March violets" of the title -- went along with the "disappearances" and other atrocities for reasons of terrified or mercenary self-interest.
Although there is an abundance of diaries, memoirs, and historical studies which can help us imagine what living in the Third Reich was like, Kerr does not try for psychological realism, but merely imports behaviour and character types from American noir.
As if to compensate for the fundamental phoniness of placing familiar American noir types in a Nazi setting, Kerr clutters his narrative with a mass of pedantic "period" detail, even to the extent of identifying one character's drink as "a glass of Bowle, Berlin's favourite summer beverage".
I’m not sure how well Philip Kerr researched this novel but the way he portrayed Nazi Germany felt right in my mind; the strong police state trying to play nice for the Olympic games and then the inability or unwillingness of ordinary Germans to try stop the crimes or injustices, while spending most of their time worrying about the coming war.March Violets is the first in the Berlin Noir series and based on this book, I’m looking forward to reading the next two books.
Όταν θα αναλάβει να ξεδιαλύνει μια υπόθεση δολοφονίας θα ανακαλύψει, ενώ μπερδεύεται ολοένα και περισσότερο σε ένα τρελό κουβάρι αποκαλύψεων, πως πίσω από μια φαινομενικά απλή υπόθεση κρύβονται πολλά περισσότερα, που αν αποκαλυφθούν θα αναστατώσουν τις ζωές υψηλά ιστάμενων ανθρώπων.Το "μπάσιμο" του Kerr στον κόσμο του Μπέρνι και της Γερμανίας στα μέσα της δεκαετίας του '30 γίνεται με έναν τρόπο απολαυστικό για τον αναγνώστη, αλλά και "τίμιο".
Ο Μπέρνι του Kerr είναι ξεκάθαρος: διανύουμε μια δύσκολη περίοδο, μας λέει, και μπροστά μας έχουμε τα ακόμα χειρότερα, οπότε αναγνώστη μην περιμένεις να διαβάσεις μια αστυνομική ιστορία εδώ.
"When you get a cat to catch the mice in your kitchen, you can't expect it to ignore the rats in the cellar."And Bernie is a super rat catcher, the pity is he pays the price and he lives in a world which exacts the price right down to the last dirty cent.Set as it is in Hitler's Berlin 1933, Kerr answers in a way that ubiquitous question 'How could it have happened?
How did the National Socialists take over and be allowed to do what they did?With his social/historical commentary Kerr show exactly how it could have happened.
What is scary is that it is not something that could never happen again.
'March Violets' by Philip Kerr, the first of the Bernhard Günther novels, is a coal-black, Nazi-era noir set in Berlin.
'March Violets' takes place against the backdrop of the 1936 Berlin Olympics, and this adds another little level of enjoyment, as the Nazi authorities are trying to convey an image of normality to the many visitors from other countries who will be coming to watch the games.
One scene takes place at the Reich Sports Field during an Olympic track and field event in which Jesse Owens wins a race.It's the period detail that really elevates 'March Violets', and this is aligned to an engrossing plot.
Which made me a very happy person.Marching violets refers to the folks who jumped on the Nazi bandwagon once it got rolling in 1933, they were not the original followers of Mr Hitler and his scary men but decided that they could get their own ambitions filled whatever they were.It is 1936 and Bernie Gunther is no longer a policeman but a private eye and when this book begins he is getting drunk at his former secretary's wedding, and not behaving like a prince.
This is first book in Berlin Noir trilogy a hardboiled PI series set in 1930s,1940s Germany.
There was alot of information about Berlin streets,culture that made it feel like german author,german characters and not another american,british author telling a story about those times.
No other PI i have read had to living in dangerous situation like his.
You cant go to police for help when the police are the ones killing people....It also worked as historical fiction to me since it was set in in totally different world,era.
I enjoyed it both as historical story and hardboiled detective story.
Marlowe among the Nazis. I enjoyed this book. Like Chandler and Hammett, Kerr can write a fast-paced, hard-hitting, rompy detective novel. Kerr just choses to set his hard-boiled noir right in the middle of Nazi Germany. Talk about a helluva-lot of femme fatale potential. Sometimes, Kerr's machine-gun-quick, funky, metaphors are almost too much. Easy Kerr, calm down, I've barely swallowed your last sentence and you are bashing me on the head with another over-the-top description of a Bavarian woman's ampleness. Four stars, because he got me. O.K., Herr Kerr, I'll read more.
My initial impression was that this was highly reminiscent of Chandler's Los Angeles and Philip Marlowe.
Kerr spends some similar time taking us through Berlin streets, much as Chandler has us driving through Los Angeles.
I don't ever intend to spend the time and energy in becoming so well-versed in Nazi Germany that I would understand them.
I prefer to read for prose and characterization.
I'm not fooling myself thinking that noir should have good characterization, and neither does it have the sort of complex prose I prefer.
The plot is good and little is predictable.
This book features a callous anti-hero who relates to women almost primarily in regards to their sexual attractiveness in a way that while perhaps fitting for the genre, became quite wearying. (And damaged the story line.) I wasn’t expecting sunshine and roses in this - after all, it’s set firmly in the underbelly of Hitler’s Berlin and is definitely noir fiction. Probably the most interesting thing about it were various tidbits about life during the thirties in the Third Reich, and the deep corruption that ran through from government to crime syndicate.
I've read several of Philip Kerr's Bernie Gunther series but haven't read the first in the series until now. Set in Berlin shortly before WWII it is the perfect setting for a wise-cracking private detective. This book has everything that one would expect from the classic detective story. Rich clients, beautiful dames throwing themselves at him, nasty murders, corrupt officials, and vile villains. It's a great series. My only complaint is that the audiobook is narrated by John Lee. While he is an excellent reader, he is also undeniably British, something that Bernie Gunther is not.
This is the book #1 in the Bernie Gunther series by Philip Kerr.
This is in the crime/mystery genre and even though it takes place during the Hitler years, I liked that the focus was not on politics and war.
It was firmly centered on mystery which included missing jewels, missing people, and murder.
I enjoyed his sense of humor.
It is a little dark, but it worked for this book.
I also liked the MC.
He is by no means perfect, but manages to get the job done without falling into the perfect fantasy trap that so many authors force their MCs into.
As a detective story, March Violets succeeds admirably and all the required pieces are present: a baffling crime, a femme fatale, a handful of suspects and a satisfying conclusion.
But Kerr takes us one step further with his vivid setting of 1936 Berlin as the Nazi Party had risen to power, people were mysteriously disappearing, prison camps were open for business, and the world had turned its eyes to Germany for the Olympic games.
Detective Bernie Gunther isn't just dodging the police and organized crime like most gumshoes; he also has to contend with the SS and Gestapo.
