https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12885.Lost_in_the_Funhouse
Lost in the Funhouse, John Barth’s collection of fourteen metafictional short-stories could take the cupcake for the most extreme form of self-reflexive postmodern literature ever written.
Frame-Tale is ten words long on a Mobius strip, Night-Sea Journey a ten-pager, an occasionally light, occasionally dark brooding on life and death in the tradition of Blaise Pascal’s Pensées, and the longest piece in the collection, Lost in the Funhouse, about a young boy on the threshold of his teenage years, a story that awakened my own buried, complex emotions when I was of similar age, a story utilizing metafictional techniques in the telling of a traditional coming-of-age tale.
Well, to be honest, I found this book to be almost as painful as La Disparition by Georges Perec (reviewed here on GR).
It was full of inter-textual and metafiction notes - in other words the author talking to himself about how the reader should or could interpret his works, his choices of words, his choices of plot devices, etc.
Not sure if other work by John Barth is more readable, but this book has certainly cured me of any curiosity I may have harboured.
I can deal with intertextuality in DFW and to a degree in Gaddis or Pynchon, but in Barth it got to be as distracting as the missing 'e' in La Disparition.
The title story of course is the biggest strength of this book, which is deftly handled with judicious mix of content, meta techniques, metaphorical significance and at the same time, is engaging enough to hold the interest of a reader.
But at the same time I wonder if their knowledge would have brought any respite to my reading experience, as for example, I’m well aware about Narcissus myth, but didn’t understand a single word of Echo, where Barth has related the content of this myth, especially w/r/t ‘self-reflection’ factor.
“Indeed, if I have yet to join the hosts of the suicides, it is because (fatigue apart) I find it no meaningfuller to drown myself than to go on swimming.” ― John Barth, Lost in the FunhouseDarwin ate (U) his mark.(A.) Once upon a time there was a review that began: (B.) (view spoiler)[(b.)Once upon a time there was a review that began (a.) (hide spoiler)] Barth wrote a novel for himself. He wrote a novel to himself. He doesn't care about you. He is not writing for you. He is not going to make y
“Indeed, if I have yet to join the hosts of the suicides, it is because (fatigue apart) I find it no meaningfuller to drown myself than to go on swimming.” ― John Barth, Lost in the FunhouseDarwin ate (U) his mark.(A.) Once upon a time there was a review that began: (B.) (view spoiler)[(b.)Once upon a time there was a review that began (a.)  (hide spoiler)] Barth wrote a novel for himself.
Barth makes me sometimes regret my decision to not go to Johns Hopkins.
Perhaps, I did go to Johns Hopkins and I did meet Barth in another story in another life.
It says so much about our expectations of literature, and the relationship between the writer and reader!
This collection starts off really quite promisingly - some of the first half is excellent - but with each story proceeds to hammer the same single tired tone, only a little harder each time, until there's nothing left but a great piercing din, and all you really want to do is just leave the room and sit in silence for a while.
I left the room at some point in the Greek cycle; it was just too much for me.
Read it here)Night-Sea Journey – John BarthLost in the Funhouse – John Barth(the first a theological monologue by a spermatozoa, described by MJ Nicholls as “insufferable” but by P Bryant as “dazzling, witty and daringly post-Bonhoefferian”; the second a wonderful exercise in decay and rot – the jejune story plods along and is attacked from within by its own grammar, assumptions, cliches and syntax.) The Squirrel Cage : Thomas Disch(this is probably poor man’s Beckett but I still love this story of a man in a cage)"Franz Kafka" by Jorge Luis Borges : Alvin Greenberg(this is a riff on Borges, of course, and is the most fun you can have with the Argentinian librarian without going up to him and tickling him)The Great Hug : Donald BarthelmeThe Balloon : Donald Barthelme(Barthelme - he had this golden period where everything he did was hilarious and mad, so I could have chosen any of about 15.
Literarily a COUPLE of LOVERS...of LITERATURE!!!Insert Plot Here"What's all this leading up to?""Is there a plot here?""What is the story's theme?""Each [sees] himself as the hero of the story, when the truth might turn out to be that he's the villain, or the coward."More Imagination"Less really is More, other things being equal.""No reader would put up with so much with such (sic) prolixity.""Nobody has enough imagination.""There aren't enough different ways to say that."Author, Narrator, Character, ReaderI'm not who you think I am.
"Who's telling the story, and to whom?"Surely it's not the author!!!Well then, to whom is it being told?"The reader!
This soi-disant landmark in experimental fiction was stuffed with endless exercises in indulgence, vague and rambling stories, pretentious non-sequiturs and assorted Greek gibberish.
The title piece, ‘Title’ and ‘Petition’ were the only engaging and amusing stories here.
Most of the collection indulges in Barth’s obsession with Victorian writing and Greek myth.
(The middle story plays a brain-busting game with the metafiction format, though the content sags badly).
This territory has been explored with twice the panache by Gil Sorrentino.
Barth’s work skews towards the cold and academic, whereas Sorrentino never loses his steely humanity, in spite of the high-wire games.
Lost In The Funhouse; Fiction For Print, Tape, Live Voice is John Barth's response to a gauntlet Marshall McLuhan was throwing down back in the heady days of the sixties regarding the immanent demise of the work of art as printed text and the subsequent decline in the fortunes of the Gutenberg family.
As it is his first collection of short fiction (anomalous), no matter one's response to the Funhouse, please do pick up one of his long works, the form in which his muse sings much so sweetly.How seriously ought we regard the book's subtitle, "for Print, Tape, Live Voice"?
You've read me this far then?
After that, Barth "heads up his ass" so far the going gets rough to the point of unreadable.
"Life-story" and "Title" are both guilty of blank.
I tend to think that the heady, minstrel Ambrose is the narrating- author of "Title" and "Life-Story", penning his own crack-up.
So, when Barth "'heads up his ass,'" in "Menelaid" and "Anonymiad" he comes out on the other side of sanity: into a fully fictional world that he can now manipulate as author in the same way conventional folk perambulate.
(117)Here we make an end: bereft of all reference points, Lost in the Funhouse.
it's like being trapped in a room with robin williams on coke and he just keeps telling the same joke OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER
Lost in the Funhouse is a tough book to review, because it screams for some sort of clever, self-aware, self-reflexive metafictional review.
"The book I chose to review is Lost in the Funhouse by John Barth." I have a BA in English and here I am pulling those tricks?
You've pretty much guaranteed that only English majors will want to read this book (of course, it's hard to imagine your average James Patterson fan enjoying John Barth [Wait a minute there, aren't you supposed to be some sort of postmodernist?
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2_76F...Featured in my Top 20 Books I Read in 2016: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4X6OQ...To whom is the funhouse fun?To the Bookchemist.But seriously, don't read this book if you don't know what you're getting into; it would only annoy you. Otherwise, roll up roll up.
As critics decried the Death of the Novel, Death of the Story, Death of the Author, Death of et cetera, Barth took it upon himself to revel in the debris, causing further destruction in the process.
Earlier in the book, we have more linear narratives that can lag due mainly to their comedic conceits not being funny enough to propel their complete lengths; later, we run into complete deconstruction that may lack any content besides its own form, or Greek mythologies repurposed to obscure meta-purposes.
Impatient readers will get nowhere -- see apparent complaint of critics who took the opener to be narrated by a fish.
I love how Barth captures the essence of a child, with all the imagination and arms-length observations, but still shows him playing along with his own role.My two favorite stories were Title and Autobiography, although the first time I read Autobiography I felt like I had been punched in the stomach because of the subject matter and the really frank intensity he allows himself to write with.Less successful for me was this somewhat tedious self-awareness where Barth himself would step back and examine the writing process, within the prose.
Why did we feel compelled to ignore Joseph Heller and John Barth (not to mention Gaddis, Gass, Pynchon, and even Don DeLillo until White Noise) and rather buy it back from Italo Calvino and Milan Kundera in overpriced trade paperbacks fostered upon us by Reaganite American psychos in publishing hell-bent on inventing ways to make us spend twice as much on a product we needed only half as much.
Sure, If on a Winter's Night a Traveler is perhaps more lighthearted and accessible--but, hell, if you're not educated enough to know the Iliad and the Odyssey then you probably don't want to read any Pomo novels anyway.
A few stories in, and I was ready to put this on a shelf with Calvino, Nabokov, and the other luminaries of post-modern meta-fiction.
Unfortunately, like so many front-loaded albums from bands that you only kind of like, the second half was supremely tiresome.
There's definitely a few stories in here that are must-reads for fans of the genre.
There are a few "standard-format" stories in the first half that are very pleasant as well.
Barth tells an incredibly mundane story, but is absolutely littered with self-awareness, meta-fictional winks at the reader, and explanations of what certain sentences and sections are supposed to be accomplishing in terms of the narrative.
Barth is such a lyrical writer, especially compared to most of the brooding postmodernist set.
Just look at the opening story, "Night-Sea Journey." Gorgeous in its imagery, rich with philosophical inquiry, it's worthy of Calvino.And Barth doesn't limit himself, he gracefully steps from style to style, going from that to weird biographies to formal experiments to lyrical, haunting childhood tales.
Above all, the whole thing is a big, long mash note in love with the writing process.I get the feeling people don't read Barth as much anymore.
The influence on David Foster Wallace is unmistakable, so if you dig DFW, go read Barth.
Dear Mr Barth,As I yet again write you a letter in a review of a book about writing about writing about writing (sigh!), I must apologise for not being clever enough to know what the hell you're on about in pretty much all of this. Should I take the time to deconstruct your stories, I suspect your only message is that life sucks and we will all die one day, in which case I must thank you for this highly original and important message that is worth taking the time to consider.............NOT!(Sigh!)
However, the rest of the intensely metafictional, massively self-referential, labyrinthine, Borges-on-drugs stories here were enjoyable if somewhat bewildering, and ended up giving me a lot of inspiration for some of my own writing.
Barth is sometimes too clever for his own good, but he's always an optimistic, fascinating writer, and I enjoyed those stories I understood and took a pass on those I didn't.It's interesting to compare these stories to those in his later work "The Development".
These stories contain the raw energy of a writer tearing into metafictional games with pure delight, whereas his later stories temper the metafiction with compelling tales of their own.
A set of stories, some clever, some so damn clever that they are almost grating. I keep thinking that these language games are becoming dated, though.

The influence of Barth on DFW is readily apparent and "Lost in the Funhouse" is a carnival ride of a book.
The stories are fairly readable if you're not concerned with things like plot and/or plot resolution (a trick DFW handily usurped).
Of course this can be taken too far and that's when you get silly things like having one word per page, or thirty blank pages (is an artistic statement really worth all that paper?
But with this book of stories the inventiveness is balanced out by a purpose.
Bookended (almost) with two rather exceptional stories, "Ambrose His Mark" and "Anonymiad", with an absolute knockout in the middle, John Barth's Lost in the Funhouse astonishes and disappoints in almost equal measure.
The imagery (the funhouse mirrors, which Barth revisits through repeated phrases in the story) and the keen eye for detail (Ambrose wonders if he could see forever in the funhouse mirrors by using a periscope, thus employing the imagery of the Second World War that hangs over every scene in the story) enable the it to rise above his constant infatuation with the seams in the narrative.
Lost in the Funhouse was my true gateway drug into the vein of postmodernism. Since reading this and many other of Barth's fiction, I've fallen completely for metafictive postmodernities and their like.This book is sort of loosely linked stories. Several characters, such as Ambrose of "Lost in the Funhouse" reappear throughout the collection, but largely, this is an experiment in both fictional structure as well as interpretive form. Several stories were written with intention to be consumed in non-traditional manner--for example "Autobiography" should be received via a recording while the author sits silent next to it.
Lost in the Funhouse, in all its postmodern/meta “glory,” was still a tiresome exercise in stroking the male ego.
However, deeper frustration comes from the idea that postmodern writers saw themselves as brave and artistic for parodying modernist convention and throwing meaning to the wind and did not realize they could only make this "artful" "leap of faith" because they inherently held a place of power and authority in the realm of the American novel.
Unfortunately for this reader, all too many of the stories served more to obstruct me from my final goal, completion of the book and moving along to my next book (forget reading for enjoyment).
Many stories seemed like barriers instead of conduits of ideas.
The story arc was disjointed and author often left gaping chasms in the plot.
If this were a collection of short stories billed as a collection of short stories, I would feel less disdain towards the author.
Here, it seems, Mr. Barth has taken his audience for granted and left me feeling like a Bolivian sex worker on Sunday morning.I don't recommend this book to anyone except sadomasochists and die-hard, avant-garde literati.
Barth rambles on in short story form about how hard a time he's having writing anything intelligible (hence, "Lost In the Funhouse").
There are two intriguing short stories in the midst of this mess, but otherwise it's just egotistical and arrogant stream-of-consciousness whining circa the mid 1960's.
At multiple times throughout the second half of the book, he asks the reader why they're still reading, then places himself in Greek mythological settings to whine some more about life.
The thing is, I would probably have enjoyed reading more of his legitimate short stories, if he could have just come to terms with the fact that he was good at writing short stories.
As of about half way thru the book I just said "Fuck it" and gave up. Though I got what he was trying to do in many of the stories, which is call attention to the actual process of writing in addition to the writing of a story, I found myself unable to care at all. I simply lacked the ability to find any enjoyment in the process of reading this book. So I gave up. I rated it three stars as I can see the writer has a level of talent, but it failed to interest me.
