https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198265.Marine_The_Life_of_Chesty_Puller
Marine!: The Life of Chesty Puller by Burke Davis is the biography of the Marine Corps most decorated man.
Ask any Marine to name one person that personifies the Marine Corps and the most likely answer would be Chesty Puller.
Puller watched as the lieutenant now returned each and every salute.
Although serving under Puller was physically challenging, he believed that the harder his people trained the more effective they would be in combat and success in combat was the Marine Corps' goal.
Although Puller is known for his military actions, his personal life is also covered.
It's a great book for a new enlisted Marine or officer.This book is an exciting account of Chesty Puller's adventures as the most decorated Marine in history, but the book itself is not great history or biography.
Still every US Marine should read (many probably have), because this book does a superb job of letting us all know what the standards are for leadership, initiative, and intensity in combat while you serve in uniform.
But if you want to know what Chesty Puller means to the Marine Corps, then you need to start with this book.
It is so simple as that.” (Kindle Locations 594-596)Lewis Burwell “Chesty” Puller was a United States Marine Corps lieutenant general.
He enlisted in the United States Marine Corps, as a private, in 1918; and was retired 37 years later, in 1955—the most decorated Marine in American history—as a three-star general.Recommended to me by a friend who served in the USMC, Burke Davis’s biography: Marine!: The Life of Chesty Puller earns exemplary marks for comprehensive research, and for excellent narration of an incredible life.
Recommendation: Highly recommended for all who’d like a glimpse into the mindset of one truly courageous Marine.“Then you could see on the faces of the troops what he meant to them.
They would have followed him anywhere.” (Kindle Locations 3058-3060).
At night in Marine Bootcamp after prayers we recited GOD Bless the Marines and then "GOD Bless Chesty Puller where ever you are".Does that give you the scope of how that man was revered?
General Lewis B.(Chesty)Puller is the most decorated Marine in History.
As much as he was revered by enlisted men and junior grade officers he was held in jealous contempt by headquarters Marine Corps.
He was awarded 5 Navy Crosses more than any other man in history.
Anyone of those 5 Crosses qualified for the Congressional Medal of Honor, but jealous administrative Command personnel made sure it never got any further than the Department of the Navy.
It was there, I read it.I started the book in the hope that Chesty Puller would be as interesting as Smedley Butler.
Its real concerns arise towards the end, but if you were to read any page at random the message would be Be Tough and Follow Orders.But after persevering through the beginning years in Nicaragua and Haiti, through WWII and a lot of hullabaloo about Guadacanal, the book struck upon two things in my sphere of interest -- the conditions on the ground for the Korean War (specifically the cold weather and poor equipment, which this book explains in detail), and the Ribbon Creek incident ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ribbon_C...
Burke Davis’ biography of Lewis B. “Chesty” Puller vividly portrays the military life of a man who was a professional in the best sense of that word. He studied the men and the tactics they employed in the U. S. Civil War before he enlisted in the Marines. As a sergeant he led patrols fighting guerrillas in Haiti and Nicaragua. Later, as an officer, he led Marines in China as CO of the 2nd Battalion, Fourth Marines. (I served in 2/4 and other parts of the Fourth Marines from 1959 to 1962 when i
(I served in 2/4 and other parts of the Fourth Marines from 1959 to 1962 when it was located on Oahu.) He strongly believed that tough training and knowledge of the enemy were keys to success in battle.
The book also details Chesty’s leadership in the First Marines during the battle of Guadalcanal.
Chesty was a devoted family man and wrote daily to his wife, Virginia, who looked after their daughter, also named Virginia, and later their son, Lewis Jr. After the Korean War was over, Chesty commanded units on both U.

A wonderful biography about a great American Warrior! General Puller was a highly decorated Marine who fought in 4 Wars and was beloved by the Men he fought with and is revered to this day! Enjoyable reading for those interested in Military History!
Its hard to imageine meeting someone like Chesty Puller. Patriotic, brave, and bold; its hard to find all of those qualities in people today. If you ever hear someone ask how America survived the first half of the twenteith century, recommend this book to them.
One of the best bios I have ever read. The story of an incredible Marine and military legend. Very recommended
A Magnificent Man of WarA lively read that emphasises all the right elements of General Puller's character and philosophy.
If ever a soul was delivered to study warfare, it was Chesty Puller; and how blessed was our nation to have him.
He took a tireless interest in all aspects of his profession, but even that commitment was secondary to his love for his men - a love he demonstrated in words and, more importantly, by his deeds.
His last statement in the book sums up Chesty Puller in a way that transcends his considerable prowess as a combat Marine.
Good night, Chesty...
Excellent read, a true American hero!This was an outstanding account of a tremendous leader of american troops. His understanding and appreciation for the enlisted man, non-comm’s and junior officers was the key to his success and that of our military. Our leaders today should heed his words and teachings.
Very inspirational. Calling Gen Chesty Puller an American Hero does not adequately capture the selfless contribution this Marine has made to our country. I learned a lot about fearless "Chesty's" leadership throughout some of the most grueling engagements the Marine Corp tackled during pre-WWII, WWII, and Korea. I plan to purchase this book for my son, nearly commissioned USMC 2ndLT.
The NCO's & EM's Officer...So Loved because they are so rare !Well written. Definitely recommend it.Answered many questions but created more than it answered.Left me wanting more.One of the few men in history I wish I could meet on earth, I guess I'll spend time with Chesty in Heaven.
People! The Marines are supposed to be a problem for our enemies! Their leaders should be larger than life characters and Chesty Puller lived up to that reputation. He was too much for his superiors like most of the truly great leaders!
WOWThis is a easily read narrative that explains who Chesty Puller is. I was always curious who he was and what he did that was remarkable, now I know. I highly recommend this book.
One of the best books I have.I bought this as a book to fill in time while waiting at a car dealership service area while my car was being serviced. I couldn't put it down. A really good read about a very great man. We could use someone like him today.
Once a Marine always a MarineThis book is about nostalgia for anyone interested in Marine history. Chesty Puller is a legend even to this day for Marines. They don’t make officers like this anymore.
America's MarineA brief glimpse into the life of one of America's heroes. General Puller's opinions and warnings are more efficacious today as when they were given.
Wow. This book was a bit long but... this Marine is revered for a reason. Semper Fi!
Interesting. but seemed a bit too much of a celebration of Chesty Puller instead of a critical history. Good, not great read.
A MarineReally enjoyed this account of a real marine. Can not go without saying he is the best there ever was. Can not imagine being with him in combat, but follow him to hell.
Great stuff. Tragic ending.
Great military leader readThis was a detailed biography with many anecdotes and quoting of letters from family, friends, and peers. What would have made it better is if it had pictures and maps of the battles Chester fought in to help explain the sequence of events. Although it is not a guide to becoming a better leader, it does share examples of techniques Chesty used.
This was a thrilling account of a remarkable man and Marine.
I had seen other true Marines run out as well one use to come over to our house for dinner when I was growing up and I would hear the stories of WWII, and Korea.
The follows him through WWII and then to Korea and some of the fiercest fighting by the 1st Marines.
he saw the writing on the wall and though they gave him a second star on the way out, he got the last word when he would show up for reunions and the men would tell the other officers to shut up and sit down and shout “we want Chesty we want Chesty” over and over they say it was deafening until he stood up and he actually brought tears to his eyes his wife would say later.
Tracks Chesty (Lewis) Puller through his upbringing in the South, through a youth spent seeking out war, and ultimately through a Marine career which he improbably lived through despite seeking out the front lines in some of the most notable battles of WWII's Pacific theater, as well as the Korean War.This was not a critical look at this man's life, but more of an ode to a Marine Corps legend and an icon of traditional masculinity.
Since the book necessarily involved one of the "greatest generation's" lives, I was surprised and interested to see the relevance the Civil War and Confederate military lore had on Puller's life.
Fascinating.Could tell it was slanted for Chesty but what a man for the time when we needed him. We hope America has more of him.
I have never, in my 13 years of Active Duty military service, read or heard of any officer who loved his men more than Chesty Puller.
I would have served under this man any time, any where.The author, thanks to many contributors, chronicles Chesty's military career from being a young enlisted Marine starting in WWI through his trials in Nicaragua and Haiti, all the way through the Korean War. The book is filled with details of actions taken in each battle and also includes information of key people that flow in and out of Chesty's life through the years.
The book also reveals his deep love for his wife and children.I picked this book up because I have heard the legends and wanted to read them for myself.
Chesty Puller was the kind of marine that you see in old 1950s war films--tough as a hunk of concrete, seemingly indestructible and inspiring nearly fanatical loyalty in his men.
The only difference being that Chesty Puller was a real marine and one who served as a professional soldier from 1918 through 1955.
He led marines in Peking, led landings on islands in the Pacific, and led the landing at Inchon in the Korean War. He was the most decorated marine in the history of the Corps and became a living legend long before he was forced to retire for political reasons.Reading this book, you realize two things--how incredibly effective Chesty Puller was as a soldier--and how many lives would have been saved during World War II and the Korean War if we'd had more men like him.
