https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/159705.Apocrypha
The Apocrypha formed an integral part of the KJV Bible of 1611.
But the Puritans discredited it and by 1629, it was no longer considered a part of the Bible.
Most of the books have never been found in any Hebrew form at all.
And even though it can't be called the inspired word of God, there is still much to learn from it!
It's full of Biblical history, words of wisdom, and yes, even love stories :) I feel that a person can read it with a grain of salt and take something valuable away with them.
In all there are thirteen books.
Aside from purported history, there's a lot of sound wisdom here, as in Sirach:Sirach 11:8-10 New Revised Standard Version, Anglicised (aka NRSVA, can't find Goodspeed's readable translation online, so I am lazily pasting in quotes from other modern translations)8 Do not answer before you listen, and do not interrupt when another is speaking.9 Do not argue about a matter that does not concern you, and do not sit with sinners when they judge a case.10 My child, do not busy yourself with many matters; if you multiply activities, you will not be held blameless.If you pursue, you will not overtake, and by fleeing you will not escape.The Book of the All-Virtuous Wisdom of Yeshua ben Sira, commonly called the Wisdom of Sirach or simply Sirach, and also known as the Book of Ecclesiasticus or Ben Sira, is a work of ethical teachings and I learned from the preface here that it is believed by some Jesus of Nazareth was named after this "Jesus the son of Sirach of Jerusalem", as may have been commonly done in that time and place.
I think I love this more than any other parts of the Bible I've read. This particular version is highly readable, obviously translated with great care.
I always need to read books like this more than once.
It's kind of like the bible you can always reread it.
Kind of like complicated literature, I think.
Some of the material in these pre New Testament books is good, some of it is questionable.
I'm interested eventually if seeing if some of these writings are reflected in the understanding of Messiah in the gospels since there is the four hundred year silence between accepted prophets and the gospels.
It's always a subject up for investigating one piece at a time.
Nice place to start, this book.
Really interesting, especially for those who have not grown up in a Catholic background, thus reading this for the first time. Still full of good wisdom and captivating stories.
These are the books that were in the Greek version of the Jewish Bible but not included in Protestant Bibles. I read them out of curiosity. It was interesting, but I doubt that I will ever read them again. There was history, fiction, advice, poetry, etc. I was glad to read about the origins of Hannukah.
The Apocrypha, has several stories that are still considered essential to western canon and cultural development even if they’re not officially recognized in several sects of Christianity or Judaism.I actually enjoyed many of the passages more than some of the canonical biblical books. Several stories are more fable and wisdom driven, though you will still find the standard denigration of women and slaves. Overall, it may not be a necessary component of biblical texts to read unless you are particularly interested in the history of theology; though it is undoubtedly interesting.
The Apocrypha consists of 14 "books" that were part of the Septuagint, the Greek translation of the Hebrew Bible together with Greek works on biblical themes.
They were part of the canon for all Christians from the fifth century on, but fell into disrepute with Protestants because they weren't part of the original Hebrew scripture--yet they were part of the original King James Version of the Bible and was only dropped later.
My copy is subtitled "An American Translation" and reads as colloquial and flowing rather than some attempt to be archaic.
I've read through the Apocrypha a few times, though not this particular version, even though I've referenced several version for different reasons.
These two particular study bibles are fairly skeptical with regards to authorship, dating, and so forth, so you can imagine how they would interpret the Apocryphal books with their slightly clumsy tales with mythical creatures etc.
Having said that, I don't consider the Apocrypha inspired, but I feel it's a necessary read for those interested in the history behind the bible, especially theologically.
In this story Daniel refuses to worship the god Bel who he claims is not real and does not eat the food given him every night by the priests.
In this same story Daniel also kills the Dragon who is worshiped as a god - he feeds a cake to the dragon who then explodes.
That is, ordinary people like the Pharisees were seeking righteousness on a personal level in order to save the nation as a wholeBel and the Dragon paints a symbolic picture of what that messiahship looks like for the Jewish audience - Daniel represents the Messiah who makes a fool of the reigning sovereign.
Lastly, there are the Maccabees books, which must strike the reader as being fraught with what Gibbon would call Philosophical History-- petty kings and their squabbles all over the place.I always had this dark idea that the Apocrypha was a breeding ground for all sorts of heresy and misdevotion, which is, upon maturer reflection, simply stupid.
They are mostly charming and mentally useful stories, and while it's granted that these books don't seem to fit so well with the Protestant Bible, I don't see any reason to hate and fear them.
Wanting to be well-read and see things from diverse perspectives, I made this a part of my daily devotional reading.
At the time, the only thing I knew about the Apocrypha was that it was left out of most mainstream Protestant Bibles, but appeared in some Catholic versions of the Bible.These are books that, because they are written later, are not officially recognized as a part of the Biblical cannon.
I would definitely recommend that anyone who makes reading the Bible a part of their daily devotion also check out what the Apocrypha can add to their understanding.
I purchased this book in 2006 while doing some biblical research. I pulled it off the shelf this year to read in its entirety. My favorite book within the apocryphal text is The Wisdom of Sirach. It reads much like the Book of Proverbs.
So far, not bad, reminds me I've got to put the Koran on the to read shelf, but I know myself and it's going to be quite some time.
There isn't much info here other than the translation.
From the intro, the guy seems to be a relatively unbiased "believer".
Coming from a pretty much non-believer, I'd take that as a "compliment", the unbiased part I mean.Before you read this, read the Bible.
I took a class that was called Bible as Lit...
Just remember, it is a fundamental piece in lit...
By the way, I would also suggest reading Greek mythology and Nietzsche...
I've actually read the New English version of this book, or maybe I should say set of books. Most of these stories more or less tie into many Old Testament stories, eg,"The Rest of the Chapters of the Book of Esther" , but for varying reasons were omitted from the standard King James. In some cases I see why this omission took place, however, some passages are quite inspirational and good advice for everyday life, for example, "The Wisdom of Jesus the Son of Sirach, or Ecclesiasticus".
Actually, I did not finish this. I tried to read it but the version I was reading (which I couldn't find on Goodreads) was both dry and lacking in something. I did read the book of Judith. Interesting but not what I was hoping for. I would like to revisit this someday and actually study more on books not included in the Bible.
I got this as a gift from my brother my freshman year in high school. I was surprised to find a lot of genealogical sections in it. I really enjoyed some of the stories in here. Favorites of mine included two subsections of Daniel - "Bel and the Dragon" and "Susannah and the Elders," and the book of Judith, which is rather reminiscent of the story of Jael and Sisera (an OT favorite of mine)
Definitely need the Holy Ghost to guide while reading this to glean the truth out of it......
I enjoyed the Book of Wisdom. I didn't feel a lot of the other books added much to the standard Bible, though.
Certainly some interesting reading....
I read about all of this that I could stand for the present. I do not think that I am in the right frame of mind to admire any of the beauty that may be hidden here.
See what I have to say about The Apocrypha at www.bibleprojectblog.com
Awful Bible stories. The puritans for once got something right.
Good history and religion. Certainly some is inspired if not prophetic.
Excellent. Also read in November of 1980.
Interesting collection of proto and/or pseudo-Biblical readings. Valuable lessons. Completion (perhaps) of many Biblical stories. Macabees, and the book of Tobit (my fav) are included.
