https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2286451.Sawdust_in_His_Shoes
This remains my all-time favorite book. I was in love with Joe and most of the names on the check-out card from my tiny Iowa school are mine. The copy I have is from the school when it got rid of 'outdated' books. Let's all start lobbying publishers to print it again!
Excellent book, if you can get ahold of a copy since it is out of print. I met the cousin of the author who lent us a signed copy. You can buy copies on ebay for about $225. My daughter and I read it together and recommend it to anyone from 9-99!!
It was a long time ago when two friends and I were book shopping online for our private school library.
One of the friends highly recommended "Sawdust in His Shoes." We were dismayed to learn the book was out of print and the available books were outrageously priced.
Fortunately the book was to be reprinted somewhere in the uncertain future.
My friends told me to order four copies, one for each of us and one for the school.
We waited for months.
I thought the books would never arrive but eventually they did.
It was worth the wait.
I read this book in fourth grade, and it made me want to be a writer. The end of the first chapter left me in tears -- first time for a book. Also, a scene of a family by lamplight with Joe, the main character, a dour bare-back rider of a boy who ran away from the circus, sitting in the dark outside the circle, observing the difference between them and himself showed me that language can create not only a life but a world. Still a treasure.
Oh, how I loved this book! I spent most of my middle school years reading and rereading this book!
Joe Lang is a third generation of a circus family.
By the time he is fifteen years old, Joe is a star bareback horse rider.
Unhappy, he runs away and is taken in by a farmer and his family.
Joe doesn’t know what to think as he is mistrustful of non-circus people.
Will Joe be able to be part of their family?
Does Joe want to go back to the circus?
Will he?This is an excelling coming-of-age novel.
This novel is for any age to read!Disclaimer: I received an arc of this book free from the author/publisher from Netgalley.
5* Our family enjoyed this read-aloud. We loved Joe Lang, the fearless bareback circus rider. We also found our kindred spirits in the Dawson family. Some lessons Joe learned on the Dawson farm were honesty, trust, hard work, and what it means to be a family - taking care of each other and having fun. Highly recommend this book for family story time.
Fans of circuses would likely enjoy it even more, even though, at the same time, they'd resent the many pages that aren't circus related.
Joe gets to the point of spending a lot of energy wondering if he'll ever be able to fit in at the farm, or go back to the circus.
Immigrants also have similar feelings in much juvenile historical fiction."You're in for a hard life, young fellow, if you keep on taking everything to heart so.""Hard life!" Joe whirled on her.
"Who wants to live at all, without being able to feel?"
Such a goodie, and so much fun to read to my kids.
I hide my grin as the main character, Joe, shakes his black hair out of his eyes and gives wild looks around rooms in almost every chapter, because I know all the girls are secretly in love with him.
There's enough foreshadowing that kids regularly give me "Ah-ha, I know what's coming" looks, which is always fun.
There are a couple of action (even fist fight!) scenes that delight them all.
And I like the historical details, the good role models, and the real-to-life characters.
Oh, and the circus.
Everybody loves the circus.
A circus boy looses his father and the circus at the same time. This book is about prejudging and values.
The story of circus born and bred Joe Lang is timeless and will be a hit with my Gen Z kids as much as it likely was more than 50 years ago.
Joe is a bareback rider who dreams of top billing in a major circus just like his parents, but tragedy and hardship strike at every turn.
Readers will read anxiously as hot headed, 15 year old Joe navigates new homes, both good and bad, new jobs, and new challenges and comes out a far better person in the end.
At one time or another, haven’t we all wanted to run away to join the circus.
Joe’s journey back to the circus in the book, Sawdust in His Shoes, will rekindle those feelings.
I read that this was called one of the ten books every child should read.
Now that I have read it, I must agree that Sawdust in His Shoes by Eloise Jarvis McGraw should be read by everyone young and older.
If you haven’t read it, it should go on your to-be-read-this-year-list.
If you read it as a child, you will be thrilled to know that it is going to be reprinted in June 2018.
So excited to finally have a copy of this book again. I lost my copy my freshman year in college and have been looking for another ever sense. It's not really my book now... I had to buy a thing called "Four Complete Novels for Teenagers" but that just means I get Big Red and two other books that someone thought was great.
I read this book around the time I was in junior high -- or maybe even earlier, but I still remember the basic story and how it touched my heart.
While Mara remains my favorite McGraw book, I read Sawdust numerous times as well.
A book that will appeal to all ages.On the surface it is an adventure story, about a boy born and raised in the circus way of life.
Joe knows where he belongs, and not just because of where he was born.As a child I read (many times) Toby Tyler, or Ten Weeks with a Circus by James Otis.When I saw the description for this book, it brought back fond memories of that book.
The story of 15-year old Joe Lang reads like a motion picture!
A child born and raised in a circus environment forced to face the death of a parent, uprooted from his place of comfort and abruptly torn away from any sense of tranquility is portrayed through the author's exceptional grace with words enabling the reader to feel every intense, mysterious, rebellious, awkward, sad emotion portrayed by Mo, the Dawson family, Joe himself as well as neighbors and friends.
This book is uplifting and an exceptional read for all ages.Sherry Klusman
This review and others posted over at  my blog. I won a copy of this book from LibraryThing in exchange for my honest review.I didn’t know until after finishing this book that it was actually written in 1950; that explains the authenticity, but it doesn’t feel dry like some older texts have the tendency to do (at least for me).When I threw my name in the hat for this book, I was looking for a change of pace. Y’all know I love me some middle-grade and I usually drift towards the fantastical. It w
The Dawson children are in awe of Joe, instantly taking a liking to him.
The development of Joe and Mrs. Dawson’s relationship over time is gratifying.Joe’s inner turmoil over longing to be back at the circus and finding himself content with farm life, his maturity as the story progresses, and his charm really drives the story.
Much like Joe, I found myself wanting him to stay with the Dawsons, but also wanting him to achieve his goal of a solo show in the circus and reunite with Moe.I devoured most of this book in one sitting.
received through librarything's early review programThis is a lovely book.
It is very much a product of the 50s, as far as gender roles go, but despite that is refreshingly free of misogyny.
And the story is just lovely; sweet, true, honest about how terrible living with a teen can be, and doesn't fall for the trope of "what s wonderful life" in pretending that beating someone's dreams out of them is ok, as long as they achieve someone else's dream.
Ok, it's true, I specifically hate that movie, but also I feared that was where this book was going, and it didn't, and I thank it for that.
I received this through the Goodreads Giveaway program.This is the first book I've read by Eloise Jarvis McGraw.
I've always been impressed with Newberry books so I knew I wanted to read it...and I'm so glad I did.The characters in the book draw you into a story about the circus, emotional pain and a yearning for a way of living lost.
They must focus on the future possibilities and skills that will take them in new directions.Topics included; Circus life.
Farm life.
Being an orphan.
Being a circus star.
Finding a new family.
All wonderful topics to discuss with your child.
Autumn, North River patron, June 2018, 4 stars:This is a story about a young boy that grows up in the Circus life but at a very young age is faced with many hardships that he must overcome. The story leads him to a family that exudes kindness and welcomes him into their lives. A good read to share with the entire family.
A charming, old-school story, first released in the 1950s. While a lot of readers commented that they wanted to join the circus after reading SAWDUST IN HIS SHOES, the writing and characters made me want to go live on a bucolic farm in Oregon in the early 1900s. Glad I took a chance on this one.I received a copy from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
Loved loved this book the circus a young boy all the emotions we experience .Highly recommend grab for yourself and young ones to treasure.
After years of wishing and ranting, this book is BACK IN PRINT!!! I promptly bought copies for me and each one of my family members who read the library copy over and over as kids.
A boy called Joe has to leave the circus life after the death of his dad.
He can't settle in the industrial school - this is the early twentieth century - and runs away, to be taken in by a farm family in need of a strong young worker.
His best friend in the circus, a clown, also hopes Joe can return, but he is not allowed to just be Joe's guardian.This is an excellent book for young adults, especially those who love horses.
The depth of feeling and mountains of information about circus life will keep young readers engaged.
One of my all time favorites! Joe Lang is taken from the circus and stuck in a home for boys after his father is killed by tigers. Determined to get back to the circus, he escapes the home, and falls into the yard of a kindly farm family when he cuts his leg open on their barbwire fence. They take in this strange boy, and teach him how to trust and believe in people, while he teaches them all manner of strange things. But while Joe loves them and works hard on their farm, his heart is with the circus.
Was on my SHORT favorite books list when I was in late elementary
One of my childhood favorites. Wish I could visit it again.
Loved this book when I was a kid. Apparently so did my grandmother and my mother because the book belonged to them. Wish I knew where it was!
