https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/784232.Richard_Scarry_s_Please_and_Thank_You_Book
I loved this book as a kid and I'm happy to pass it down to my kids! Easy read and teaches manners in a way kids can understand.
This book is composed of several stories. It is a very interesting concept full of valuable information. It is a lot at once for children.
I really dislike this book. It attempts to teach manners in a very simplistic, preachy, nagging way. I can't imagine that hearing a list of things you should and shouldn't do (even with parental commentary) is going to sink in, and I even worry about putting new ideas of bad things into my two-year-old daughter's head ("wait, you can light things on fire?"). I'd give it one star, but my daughter inexplicably wants to read it every day, so it gets three.
This book has many good short stories to teach kids about manners in different situations. We have been trying to teach our daughter about whining and the "Pest" story has finally hit the concept home for her! There are some outdated things in the book but pretty much everything still rings true in today's world.
Over the years this book has helped my children to understand certain concepts within obedience and considerate living. My favorite section is "Lowly Worm's Horrid Pests".
This book was good with its words and pictures, it's like a magazine if children liked reading magazines.
This book has animals in it instead of people which I thought was interesting because the animals are using things just like people such as driving a car, eating to a table, going to school, etc....
The pictures aren't really that big if you were to be reading this book to a big group so it would be hard for everyone to see.
I liked that some of the words were put right by the character when they were talking to show who's talking in the story.
Love, LOVE Richard Scarry.
Though his illustrations are cartoony, they are intriguing and funny to children...and me!
This book is a marvelous, thorough, overview of the good manners we all want children (and adults!) to demonstrate.
He covers disciplined routines, patience and helpfulness, table manners, cooperative kindness, proper party etiquette, car & fire safety, even mud tracking on clean floors (at least Lowly Worm only has one foot...)!
My favorite section is "Lowly Worm's Horrid Pests".
:) The hardest job kids face today is learning good manners without seeing any.Fred Astaire
I grew up reading Richard Scarry, so was happy to find this to read while waiting in the pediatrician's office. My 6 year old enjoyed it. I was a little dismayed to the extremely stereotypical gender roles presented in this book (all of the mothers were cooking or cleaning, the fathers going to work in suits or reclining and watching tv) but had to ultimately put it down to the time period in which the book was written.
This book was an unexpected gold mine. It taught so much. With cute illustrations and playful stories, it addressed manners, common courtesies, kindnesses, a good work ethic, and more. I really, really liked the stories included in this volume. My favorite would have to be Pig Will and Pig Won't. My kids and I could not get enough of it.Rating: 5/5 (Winner!)Recommend: Yes
This is a book that has been on my parents shelf forever, and I remember them as a child but not a lot. I like this book! I talks about manners without it being in your face. I have always had a respect for Richard Scarry's work but I really enjoyed this. Our Public Library copy is well used! Very nice!
The illustrations are adorable, and although sometimes I get overwhelmed by so much going on on one page, this book is a winner. I love the simple stories and the way they clearly show proper behavior in a variety of situations. My kiddos enjoy this book and it is an excellent reinforcement for the behaviors we are working on all the time anyway!
This book presents manners in a fun and familiar context for little readers. My kids already love Huckle and Lowly, so it was easy for them to enjoy this book. My favorite story is Pig Will and Pig Won't. At my house, we need constant reminders on good manners, and this book makes it fun. Parents will enjoy it too.
I grew up reading all of Richard Scarry's books. His unique illustrations and lessons influenced me in a positive way. I learned the importance of sharing, caring. In this book, the right way to behave and be gracious to those around you is the lesson. Excellent story that teaches children how and when to say please and thank you.
Can I use the word delightful? My first grader LOVED the book, you can read it in small segments or all at once - she learned the term "dozen" as in "don't make your mother ask you a dozen times to go to bed." Great introductory book to manners and thinking of others' feelings.
I'm delighted that my son loves this childhood favorite of mine. There are lot of lessons in here about safety and manners and respect. I have a copy given to me in 1976 by my grandparents. I got my son a new copy and he loves that we've put his name it "just like Mommy's."
My kids really enjoyed the little stories in this book. It is a great beginning book to emphasize manners and ways to love people. I took it and applied it to Scripture and would encourage others to do the same as otherwise it becomes just a type "self-help" books for kids.
My family loves this book! It's so funny and it's shocking to hear the chiding of "whiners" or people who say "I won't". It's from a different era - but it can be kind of refreshing after so many careful modern stories where everything is nice and nebulous.
This is cure--I love his illustrations--and I'm sure I must have read some of the stories in this book when I was little. I get a kick out of Lowly the worm-- great name! I love to see how he knots himself so that he can hold a fork or spoon. So cute!
A little outdated with roles.
My mom read this book to me so many times I had it memorized. To the point of knowing when to turn the pages and convincing Dad I knew how to read. Mom burst that bubble with the dreadful truth.
This is the book that infamously introduced the Todd Family to Pig Will and Pig Won't -- two literary characters that continue to come up in family discussions after 20 & 30 years.
Colton loves all the Richard Scarry books and this one teaches all about good manners in a fun way.
Read this with my 6-year-old son as part of our homeschool curriculum. He enjoyed the characters and the stories (all with very good lessons) and I enjoyed the nostalgia of Richard Scarry!
We really enjoy any of the Scarry books. There is always funny details going on in the illustrations. I like this one for the morals, my daughter's favorite story is about the 'pests'. :)
Another classic book from my childhood.
As I remember it, this was one of the best children's manner books that I've read. It is full of gentle humor and practical--not preachy or snobby--lessons in good manners.
I loved this book.
Yes, I DID learn my impeccable manners from Lowly Worm! (I also learned "the worm" because break-dancing was cool when I was 5, and I loooooved Soul Train!)
Um, thank you!
This is a great anthology. This is a good collection of stories to read to children to teach them the importance of please and thank you.
