https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/168444.Reason_and_Revolution
هذا ما يتحداه هيجل بوضع معانٍ جديدة للكلمات التي يستخدمها الجميع مثل "الواقع" و"الحقيقة" و"الحرية" و"الروح"، وذلك لأن فلسفته تسبق اللغة ذاتها، فاللغة تتعامل مع الأشياء على أرض الواقع على أنها ثابتة، وهذا يعني أن تلك اللغة ذاتها لها توجه فلسفيّ أو إيديولوجيا.
وهذه النظرة الوضعيّة مسيطرة بشدة على الأوساط العلميّة والسياسيّة هذه الأيام نظرًا لعوامل عدة لا داعي لذكرها الآن.كذلك الحال عند التعامل مع المنطق، فما دفع هيجل إلى كتابة كتابه في علم المنطق ربما يكون رفضه للمنطق الصوريّ التقليديّ والذي يتعامل مع الهويّة باعتبارها شيئًا ثابتًا (متأثرًا في ذلك بالفلسفة اليونانيّة التي كانت ترى أن الماهيّة تسبق الوجود) ذلك المنطق الذي يرمز للهويّة بالرمز [أ] وكأنها ثابتة.
This means that, after introducing the pertinent aspects of Hegel's system (which takes up the entire first half of the book), the author proceeds to show how people who wanted to understand social change at a time when sociology did not exist, used his philosophical categories and applied them to create such understandings.
Because Hegel had a system of thought, the projection of those categories onto social realities created also systematic understandings, of which Marx's is the best known but not the only one.
An excellent overview of Hegelian theory in the first part of the book. Though a bit redundant at times, it is far more enjoyable than reading Hegel. The first part work traces Hegel's radical social theory through his muted conservatism in favor of a hereditary monarchy, and focusing extensively on the Hegelian reappropriation of the Aristotelian concept of human potential (actuality vs. potentiality). The second half is more entertaining, covering the advancement of social theory, through the Hegelian vein, from theorists like Feuerbach, Kierkegaard, Marx and Saint-Simon.
Up front, I just read the first part which is where he tries to explain Hegel in general. I found this reasonably useful. As I mentioned in the review for the appropriate Copleston volume, I thought the comparison was very interesting. On the other hand this volume is a little bit in between for me. It does some of the same work, but the Marxist touch is a bit distracting though if I was reading the book more for the overall point it would probably be more interesting.
فجأة اتضح لي بعد متابعة احداث الثورة في مصر ان نظرية هيجل تفسر كل شيء في حركة المجتمع!! بحثت عن بعض القراءات حتي استطيع دراسة تلك الفكرة بشكل اكبر انتهت بمجموعة من القراءآت هذا الكتاب احدهاالكتاب فتح لي افاقا كثرة علي فكر هيجل يبدو انني لم افهم هيجل جيدا من البداية
Therefore, the subtitle should actually read “Hegel + The Rise of Social Theory.”For Hegel Reason functions as an acid-drip, dissolving all historical forms, leading to the liberation of nature.
While many repeat Hegel’s famous dictum that the Real is the Rational, Marcuse points out that reason will dissolve social orders via its inherent negativity, which will then usher in new forms of the rational.The progress of thought begins when we try to grasp the structure of Being.
Indeed, Being is *violent.*Hegel’s thought allows a visible dynamic between reason, externality, and alienation (as famously seen in Marx).
For Hegel his trajectory led him to surmise that only in thinking is freedom obtained and the state must reconcile this by creating institution that dont undermine the freedom to think for individual but there in lies the contradiction.
His remarks on Hegels influence across Europe against the raise of Positivism and Sociology are also insightful challenging fields like anthropology that tend to run on participant observation to document what they see (spell of positivism) as opposed to critical theory that attempts to shake up the status quo by showing contradictions.
Much of the book is Marcuse explaining and interpreting Hegel. Marcuse has a nice academic manner to his writing, and the book is instructive. In the latter part of the book, he also considers other philosophers such as Marx and Comte, etc. Overall, it reminds me why my philosophical interests are eclectic, and not just about one or two schools.
About as lucidly written as you can get with a book about Hegel, I think. I learned quite a bit from this... the sections on Stahl and von Stein were interesting since I had never really heard of them before reading this book. The last couple sections detailing the relationship between fascism/Nazism with (anti-)Hegelianism was also very enlightening to me.
Essential.
In passages that most people would find to be reactionary, and repressive, Marcuse ask that we ignore what he's actually saying, and dwell on Hegel's method as a revolutionary method.
His Chapter on Marx is interesting, but hardly worth picking the book up over, and he spends too little time defending Hegel from Kierkegaard (8 pages).
It's not a very philosophical argument, but more of a presumptuous one, where Marcuse just presumes the reader is a socialist and/or not a christian, and therefore won't see any wisdom in Kierkegaard.Overall a mixed bag of a book, I'm not sure I'd recommend it to anyone though.
after reading butler's first book, subjects of desire, i wanted to know more about hegel's place in continental thought withing sloughing through him in actuality: frankfurt school to the rescue!
marcuse here very compellingly very readably shows the french revolutionary inspirations for german idealism and methodically yet i'm quite positive economically emplots all of hegel's ideas as they devolop and revise.
aside from that, is it even an option since the subject is defined against my very being as black faggot?
i admire the spirit of hegel but seriously recognition can eat a dick
Lastly, he sums up the development of positivist thought and formation of sociology as a discipline.Even though Marcuse does not put together a very engaging analysis of the theories that he brings forth, the book is very informative and provocative, especially when thinking about the Hegelian transcendetalization of Reason, and the theological aspects of modernity - the search for a new God that will give relief, and that will guide us through the new modern world.
Dialectics as a method also becomes questionable upon reading the book - is there a "truth" that we, as the wise theorists will bring to light?
One of the classic statements of Hegelian Marxism and critical theory. Marcuse argues that Hegel's conciliatory conservatism was inconsistent with his method, and places Marx as the rightful heir of the dialectical legacy. The Popperian argument that Hegel's mystification of Enlightenment engendered totalitarianism is overturned by Marcuse showing how the classics of positivistic sociology legitimatized statist authoritarianism with their instrumental concept of reason. Dated, but still a great read.
good thorough review of Hegel's general overall scheme... he detangles a lot of misconception... its a good guide to understanding Hegles relevance in history, philosophy, political theory, and western revolution.
Herbert Marcuse's reputation as one of the most accessible and effective interpreters of Hegel and Marx in the 20th century is well deserved. In this text, Marcuse spells out the Hegelian dialectic and its power as a critical social theory.
i disagree with alot of this book. agree with some. i like the rather accessible , if sometimes overly-optimistic, intro to hegel.
Great
I'm no longer a Marxist, so I can't say I agree with it, but it remains the best introduction to Marxist philosophy.
