https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9876989-blue-exorcist-vol-1
Wow! This was an excellent first volume. Consider me hooked! I'm excited to see how this sibling bond develops throughout the series.
say what you want about mebut don't diss my brother.
10 - 19, which is what I've read of the new material so far, I'd call it a four-plus stars rating -- four stars for the plot developments, five stars for Lightning, and his gonzo mentor relationship with Bon. Now I'm waiting eagerly for Vol. 20.The anime parts paths from the manga before Vol. 10, I believe; I'm not at all sure I care to watch it past that point, though perhaps the wiki will fill in for me, satisfying my curiosity without burning my time.Last year:I tried this one in part to sample my public library's lending system for e-manga, which turns out to be brilliant.
I had seen the first episode of the anime already so I knew what to expect; although I was kind of surprised the beginning in the manga wasn't as developed as it was in the anime, you get a much better understanding of why Rin fights with the boys and starts the whole mess in the anime than in here.Definitely a lot crammed into this first volume, but thanks to reading Bakuman I'm wondering if that's because this was originally a one-shot that got turned into a series and they just used a bunch of the same material for this volume.
When i first watched the anime a few years back i was like "Rin is my baby".Now that i am reading the manga a few years later than that i am like "Rin is my baby".Honestly, he is one of the most likeable characters. Everybody loves Rin <3The manga is amazing, it is fun and emotional and if you like manga in general definitely give it a try.*Ao no Exorcist will have its second anime season this winter and i am so fucking excited*
¿Para qué leer Blue exorcist?1) Tiene muy buenos gráficos y peleas con demonios.2) El sustento religioso y científico de los demonios, es perfecto, aprendes de estos seres sombríos acompañados de llamas.3) Tiene momentos cómicos y muy divertidos, que te alegran el día.4) Trata el tema del núcleo familiar y las relaciones de protección.5) El protagonista aunque algo testarudo, es bastante creíble
Interesting story, but unfortunately not really what I was hoping for.
I had heard of Blue exorcist for a while before picking it up for myself from my local W.H.Smith.I only picked it up because I thought it would give me something to read that afternoon, but boy, am I glad I bought it.
I am hooked!I've never been up to date with a Manga series; I purchased the other 3 that week, and have asked for the 5th for Christmas, which was released last week.I think the art style of Blue exorcist is lovely.
I love how the characters look their age.
I think there's nothing worse than a character looking older or younger than their supposed to.
So good to be reading about Rin and the rest of the gang again. I've missed them :)Now on to the next one.
This is a very nice graphic novel. Never have I expected I would be interested in reading graphic novel. Oh well, gonna search for the second book once I'm finish with the third graphic novel I bought together with this one.
This was great! I watched the anime a few years back and I'm pleased to say that the humor and characters that made the anime one of my favorites was translated directly from the manga. Since I'm not sure if they'll be making any more seasons of the anime (cries), I'll have to start reading this regularly.
I read the first volume, it's decent but there's nothing new in the story. It doesn't keep me interested enough to read the next volume.
Die Idee gefällt mir =D
What should I saw about Blue Exorcist Vol 1?First of all,the word 'addicting' is a small one for suc
This is probably one of my fave manga, how couldn't I think about it ?! I've discovered this beauty at the beginning of the year, and it is just awesome and refreshing ! However it is really slow and the books come really late in France (and I don't like to read scans on Internet).
I feel like im cheating my challenge with all this manga but oh welllll...I've needed to read this series ever since I saw the anime! The manga really does not disappoint and I love it!
3.5 starsI watched the first season of the anime a while ago and absolutely loved the action and drama, so I was pleasantly surprised to find the the manga is just as dynamic. The art style is very similar in both mediums and the characters are just as vivid and spirited. I think the anime does a better job of explaining the world, the demons, and Rin's powers, but for a first volume this really grabs your attention, and keeps you captivated. I've already started volume two and can definitely see myself carrying on with this series.
This was really fun! I really liked Rin and Yukio’s relationship. Rin is hotheaded and Yukio is calm but they both want to protect each other. But also Yukio is doing some shady shit with exorcist school. So we’ll see how that plays out. We also meet cute girl named Shiemi. I’m excited to see where this series goes!
Book #13Surprisingly very good! Blue Exorcist follows two siblings and their life changes when Rin (our main character) finds out he is a demon. But not just any demon. Satan's son.So he enters in a new school to learn how to be an exorcist and combat all evil, and his brother does as well.The art is pretty simple but very beautiful. This first volume is self explanatory and I truly enjoyed it and felt eager to pick up the rest. I have watched the anime series before, though, so nothing is new.I recommend :)
gah, I knew I should have put more than 1 volume on hold at the library! Loving this so far!
خیلی خوب بود!!!اول انیمه رو دیدم و حالا اومدم سراغ مانگا. شخصیت های رین و یکیو فوق العاده دوست داشتنی ان. تقریبا من همه رو توی این داستان دوست داشتم، حتی ساتان :دی رین از ان شخصیت هاییه که با وجود تمام حماقت ها و اشتباهاتش آدم ازش خوشش میاد.پلات هم خیلی دوس داشتنیه. یه فانتزی نو و قشنگ :)
3,5 estrelas
http://fiebrelectora.blogspot.com.es/...
Super Zeichenstil, geniale Story. Ich muss die Reihe unbedingt weiter lesen.
I don't know if that is just the book, or if it's just me, not yet used to the writing style of manga.Characters:I really liked Rin. I liked that he has this kind of attitude, wich makes him sometimes really funny and sarcastic.
I feel like his character was really good thought out and i really think that, if he had a different kind of personality, i wouldn't liked it as much.Art:I have read some manga online or on my phone, but this is my favorite style so far.
Fujimoto, who is an exorcist of demons, gives Rin a sword but warns him that the moment he unleashes the sword it will awaken the demonic power within Rin and reveal his true nature to the world.
Rin vows revenge.It is determined that if Rin wishes to avenge the death of Fujimoto and fight demons, he must train at True Cross Academy, the very school Yukio is due to attend.
Father Fujimoto is killed off so early that it had little impact on me and made it harder to relate to Rin's feelings about his death.
After this first volume, I'm really liking the overall concept of Blue Exorcist and am interested to see where it goes.
If you're at all familiar with the manga Soul Eater, Vol. 1 then Blue Exorcist may give you some major deja vu.
Not only is the general plot and concept similar but so is the primary art style.
(Which too me feels like a combination of the art from Soul Eater and Bleach) However, a big difference is that this is by a completely different author.
A lot of paranormal manga draw from the same cultural background which can explain away some of the similarities, but not others.
Well, I guess it's more of a pre-review.) I remember loving the anime for this, and wanting to know what happens next for these characters when I reached the last episode.
^.^ ***(Spoilers-ish, mainly for the first chapter.) Reading the first chapter--especially having Rin's father there (the priest--the father that raised him)--takes me back to when I first watched the first episode of the anime.
I guess I'm just trying to say that Kazue Kato creates not only fantastic characters, but also a wondrous world, and I'm looking forward to see what happens next.
5/5 estrellas.TREMENDO VIAJE ME PEGUÉ CON ESTE MANGA.Había mirado el anime hace muchísimo tiempo y recordaba poco y nada, pero sí sabía que me había encantado.
Me compré los primeros dos tomos hace un par de años y no leí el primero hasta ahora, y la verdad es que no sé qué se supone que estuve esperando porque me fascinó.Lo principal, siempre amé a Rin. Además, el diseño de personajes es de lo más hermoso y la guía que le han agregado al final es espectacular, pues nos permite aprender un montón sobre demonios.Puntuación máxima porque tiene de todo, o sea, me hizo pasar de las lágrimas a una risa incontenible casi en cada página.Lo disfruté muchísimo.
Mas que recomendado.

