https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27161156-hillbilly-elegy
Vance made some solid decisions and was able to move away from a bleak and depressed area and the rather colorful upbringing he had, managed to find a way to garner, not just a solid education, but an Ivy League education, and is now working at a white collar job, living the American dream.
With a new sense of self-determination, a broader perspective of the larger world, and developed leadership skills, Vance enrolled at Ohio State University and, eventually, went on to Yale Law School—an unheard of achievement for someone from his family, his hometown, and his struggling public high school.
I think it’s important to remember that Vance is conservative, though he doesn’t seem to be as far right-wing as the Tea Party, so his ideas may not appeal to the point of view of many liberals coming to this book trying to make sense of Trump.
Or maybe he's just not the guy that's going to be bring "concrete." Regardless, I do think it's important to listen to the voices of Appalachia.
Very candid account of growing up disadvantaged and white. The parallels between his demographic and a historically, systematically marginalized Black America are evident. Both populations deserve understanding and empathy, but I tend to think the author thinks his people are somehow more noble. I would have like to seen an acknowledgment that the two groups should not be antagonistic but work together to achieve mutually beneficial economic goals.
2016 is the year of Donald Trump, and J.D. Vance's Hillbilly Elegy should be at the top of every politico and thought leader's reading list living in the Acela corridor.
That tension—the fact that he managed to "beat the odds" while still acknowledging the deep cultural divide between elite institutions and wide swaths of middle America (the region of the United States sometimes derisively referred to as "flyover country")—pervades the book and ultimately makes it such an important book.For that tension exists not merely in the people like Vance who have a foot in both worlds—one in southeastern Ohio with his hillbilly family and the other in downtown San Francisco working for an investment fund.
They probably did their own children little good—especially J.D.’s mother, addicted to heroin and a bewildering succession of men—but by the time J.D. needed them they had mellowed a little, and gave him the love and determination he needed to succeed.The early chapters about family are compelling, but the last few chapters, touching on the cultural hurdles a hillbilly in a high class East Coast law school must overcome, are fascinating too.
Paul Krugman calculated that even “if Trump did a Carrier-style deal every week for the next 4 years, he could bring back 4% of the manufacturing jobs lost since 2000.” For the greater Middletown, Ohio area that Vance is from it’s not about shoring up an ailing, regional economy but rather to face the demise of an economy that has drastically changed what Max Weber called generational “life chances”, including the perception and reality of those.Middletown, OH is only about 50 miles from where I was born in Muncie, IN and where I still have a large, extended family, so I relate quite strongly to his story, although my "hillbilly" family, also a mix of working- and middle-class, was quite the opposite of his often violent and abusive one.
...People talk about hard work all the time in places like Middletown.
He thinks his fellow hillbillies just need to work harder.
...There is a cultural movement in the white working class to blame problems on society or the government, and that movement gains adherents by the day.True- so when he is asked in interviews and by the media about Trump's appeal he needs to be more honest.
He doesn't talk about the racism & xenophobia that is much a part of his people.
That is also part of Trump's appeal & needs to be included in his narrative.
I'll be honest I didn't totally finish the book before giving up.
I hear Vance on NPR and the story caught my attention.
Yet, what I thought would be a better analysis of American economics and poverty proved to be very different.
It's one of those conservative love stories of " I got my shit together so everyone can".
While I respect the struggle Vance had, I also believe it's a very naive picture of what is going on.
It explains why people FEEL a way.
It does not explain the systemic issues that are also at play.
Not just a sociological view of this group of people I had heard nor read little about, but the experiences of a young man raised in this environment and pulled himself out, though he does acknowledge to receiving much help along the way.
This book enlightens the reader about the huge disparity in thinking between those making the leas and those receiving the benefits of these laws, which probably hinder more than help.
He makes it clear that he loves his family, warts and all but his special connection and the help he received from his memaw was priceless.
Seriously, I spent more time reading through every review - and all the comments on THIS BOOK - more than any book in all my years on Goodreads.
Diane first brought awareness to me that this is a "timely" book, Rae express Mamaw and Papaw sooo lovely - ( I melted again reading about them especially after having my own experience too)...
It's inspiring to listen to Vance share his story - his thoughts - and he did contribute some awareness about the culture......."ALL RICH PEOPLE PLAY GOLF"...
I think that the thoughts and opinions of the author might be controversial, but he lived through it and saw the good and the bad so I will give him the benefit of the doubt on how he sees things after the way he grew up!When I saw the name, I figured this would be reading about a real life Deliverance-esque town.
It sounds like there are some people who scoff at this book because it isn’t about a Deliverance-esque town, the author is well spoken, and he does not necessarily paint the Hillbilly culture in the best light.
just go out and git a job cus it is y'alls falt if y'all ain't a workin'And if you read this farI got your attentionso I want to say that this here writer feller plumb needs some more book larnin,and a whole lotta more empathy.He makes me fit to be tied;I am madder than a wet hornet.cus getting anywhere in lifetakes luck and opportunity.and that means it has tocome up and bite you in the butt.
it isn't always their faultif they are down and out,but now you have writtena book for republicansto use against your kinfolk.written by Jessica Slade, 2017
I grew up in a similar community.... wanted to like this book, but I lost all respect for it because the author didn't discuss the enormous issue of racism in the context of rural white poverty. A cowardly omission.
I mean, I wouldn't consider myself a hillbilly, but i did grow up in the suburbs of Nashville, and I'm honestly not too far removed from some of the family members depicted in the book.
Im very fortunate, but, man some of the people and scenes depicted here feel like stories I've heard from my own family.
So, yeah, it's weird to read a book from a 30 year old white guy and think he has something interesting to bring to the table.
Anyway, Hillbilly Elegy is a very eye-opening, important, emotional book to read- but I'm so glad I took the time to read it.
This books had so much more depth than I expected and honestly, I am more than a little overwhelmed. What separates the successful from the unsuccessful are the expectations that they had for their own lives.  J.D. Vance, an ex-marine, a Yale law school graduate and self-proclaimed hillbilly, provides an absolutely unique, heart-wrenching and poignant analysis of his culture - the poor white working class. If you believe that hard work pays off, then you work hard; if you think it’s hard to get
This books had so much more depth than I expected and honestly, I am more than a little overwhelmed.
J.D. Vance, an ex-marine, a Yale law school graduate and self-proclaimed hillbilly, provides an absolutely unique, heart-wrenching and poignant analysis of his culture - the poor white working class.
Psychologists call it “learned helplessness” when a person believes, as I did during my youth, that the choices I made had no effect on the outcomes in my life.
And yet, he managed to pull himself out of the dregs and live a relatively normal life.
Sadly, this book fell into the latter category for me.I picked up 'Hillbilly Elegy' because the blurb sounded interesting enough and I really don't know much about the Appalachian people.
That being said, if the people of Appalachia aren't as "trashy" as they are portrayed on TV, you would never know it from reading this book.
If the Appalachian people really are half as depressing as this book makes them out to be, all I can say is that I want to steer clear of that abysmal region.
Vance brings these dualities to bear on our own time and through the lens of his own experience.Besides Vance’s talented writing, this book succeeds on his unique perspective: he has seen the depths of family dysfunction and the heights of professional and financial attainment.
Vance demonstrates both the opportunities available to a young person today and also the deeply held obstacles that make reaching these goals prohibitively difficult and unlikely.A very good book, highly recommended.
I am law-abiding agnostic- with good values...and if I whole-heartedly ever decide to believe in Jesus and God- I know they would be absolutely ashamed at what is playing out in the USA at the moment.
Because I usually have all the feeeeelz for people who have had hard knock lives....but the hillbillies that voted for Trump obviously failed to think about anyone but themselves- they refused to see a bigger picture for the world as a whole with their "America first" bull#%@t.
They also voted against themselves in their absolute ignorance of the facts laid out before them.
I didn't really want to read J.D. Vance's Hillbilly Elegy, but it sort of felt like a car crash you know is right in front of you.
Even before I opened the book, I reflected that the 'hillbilly' culture Vance describes as in crises is the same culture that was in crisis 100 years ago.
Vance seems to excuse the seeming racism of his hillbillies by claiming that it's not skin color that makes them uncomfortable, but rather people who are accomplished/have succeeded.
No matter how many times Vance makes this claim, I'm not buying it.
“One way our upper class can promote upward mobility, then, is not only by pushing wise public policies but by opening their hearts and minds to the newcomers who don’t quite belong.” ― J.D. Vance, Hillbilly Elegy: A Memoir of a Family and Culture in Crisis (my dad's father [center on the stairs], uncle, and other workers during harvest)The writing and conclusions of this book are probably a 3-star, but emotionally this is a 4-star book for me (thus my vacillating between 3&4-stars).
(I'm not judging her as I see this lifestyle taking place around me daily.)She does manage to end up with nursing degree but then drugs move into her life and she loses even that.
Mamaw and Papaw are the saving graces in this man's life.
My Gran also took me in from a bad homelife and she was as rowdy as Mamaw is in this book.
The book is also pretty political, pointing out that most people from this area used to vote Democratic with a vengeance but things they have changed.
My father grew up in the hollers of West Virginia in a small town that hasn’t changed very much (if at all) since he lived there.
Like J.D. Vance, my father was able to move away, find a way to make a living doing something he loved, to rise above the poverty of his youth.
"How much of our lives, good and bad, should we credit to our personal decisions, and how much is just the inheritance of our culture, our families, and our parents who have failed their children?
The only thing is he seems to start to lose steam by the end of the book but ending books is always harder than beginning them.
It's really hard to write a good book on social commentary or politics especially as a memoir using your own story but he did pull it off really well.
I usually get annoyed with most memoirs because people just talk about their lives where one thing happens to them and then I have to read about the rest of their boring life too.
I didn't find myself getting bored reading this though.
In a book interview on PBS Newshour, Vance said that Trump was one of the few people who “cared” about the plight of poor working class.
Vance agrees that conservatives need to do a better job in healing the country and bringing folks together rather than pushing them apart.
Broken family ties is a subject we all need to think about whether black, white, rich, or poor.
I believe that is why he started it.J.D. Vance gives a TED talk (September 2016)I listened to this book read by the author and produced by HarperAudio.
So much of what he shares is hand me down stories from his grandparents' family.
He visits their home town a few times along the way.
More importantly, you might be hesitant to read this because it is boring as heck in the way it is told and his woe-is-me attitude.
Poor guy didn't know which fork to use at his Yale law firm recruiting dinner nor the difference between Chardonnay and Sauvignon!
So maybe I'll write a memoir about growing up with the repercussions of WWII Nazi Germany because my grandparents and mother experienced this.
But he sure found a way to use his "upbringing" to sell books.
In queste pagine, invece, si parla di un’altra classe sociale, il proletariato operaio diventato sottoproletariato con la crisi (trasformazione iniziata ben prima del 2008, impoverimento e marginalizzazione progressivi per conseguenza della globalizzazione), un folto gruppo umano che sopravvive sull’assistenza pubblica (welfare), senza casa (homeless) alcolisti, tossici (non solo droghe, anche: sonniferi, antidolorifici, analgesici, medicine in genere - infatti, nella parte di Stati Uniti di cui parla Vance, ci sono piccole contee in cui la McKesson, la più grande distributrice americana di farmaci, spedisce centinaia di milioni di pillole).Un homeless di East Liverpool, Ohio, area a maggioranza bianca duramente colpita da disoccupazione e tossicodipendenza.Sono bianco, ma non mi identifico di sicuro nei WASP, i bianchi anglosassoni e protestanti del Nordest.
We might get angry with them, but we never give them the tools -- like peace and quiet at home -- to succeed....We choose not to work when we should be looking for jobs.
I was expecting something that was part memoir, part social history, but this book is almost entirely memoir.
I read this book specifically looking for insight into the lives angry, white, working-class population that comprises Donald Trump's base.
Perhaps something more academic like White Trash: The 400-Year Untold History of Class in America would provide more answers.
I found it moving and captivating, but I'm not quite sure what my take away is -- and I've decided that that doesn't really matter because Vance is an interesting guy with a really interesting story to tell.
In reality, Vance is a complex guy and he's not offering a pat message.
At its very best, Hillbilly Elegies focuses on Vance's complex feelings toward his family -- I was tremendously moved by his fierce loyalty and love combined with his sober awareness of the instability wrought by his family.
I enjoyed listening to Vance tell his own moving story.
Change the names and dates, and the Italian Mafia starts to look a lot like the Hatfield-McCoy dispute back in Appalachia." pg 116, ebook.Throughout the family stories related in Hillbilly Elegy, J.D. weaves a fascinating examination of hillbilly culture: "It would be years before I learned that no single book, or expert, or field could fully explain the problems of hillbillies in modern America.
This is why, whenever people ask me what I'd most like to change about the white working class, I say, "The feeling that our choices don't matter." pg 151, ebook.And, as much as this book highlights the problems in hillbilly America, it is also a call to action through greater self knowledge and personal responsibility.
Part memoir and part social treatise, the book attempts to explain the mindset of the poor whites of the Appalachian/Midwest geographic area.
J.D. Vance basically goes beyond the loss of manufacturing jobs in explaining the crisis of what used to be considered the working poor, but is now mostly the non working, white poor.
He blames the lack of family and thus, stability, for the crisis.
Vance brilliantly explains why this sector of our country has come to feel alienated from the country and from the liberal elite.
