https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1421684.Drawing_the_Head_and_Hands
Just like Figure Drawing for All It's Worth, this is a large format hardcover with a dust jacket.
The production quality is excellent and it's a faithful reprint of the original content.There are 5 parts to the book.
The last part is on drawing hands.
Illustrated examples are beautiful.The section on drawing hands is not a lot but I guess still adequate enough.
If you want a good book on drawing hands, check out Drawing Dynamic Hands by Burne Hogarth.It's great that this classic is reprinted because everyone can own one now.
This is a great companion book to figure drawing books.
Absolutely the best resource for learning to draw the human figure.
I love Loomis' books! They always offer in-depth understanding of every drawing subject! Portraits in this book are fascinating and I've not seen a book so detailed as this one on drawing different age groups. Highly recommended for portrait artists who don't want their works to look photographic, but at the same time beautiful in an artistic sense.
There is a reason why Andrew Loomis is deemed one of the best artists on teaching the fundamentals of drawing.
Not only does Loomis break down the fundamentals of drawing, he explains WHY they are relevant and also adds great knowledge and experience on applying that knowledge to the working life of any artist.
Given that a lot of his work has been built upon other artists after him, his advice might feel a bit outdated.
But this is still a great book to keep around for anyone who is looking to improve their sensibilities and understanding of drawing.
I think this book is a really good book for people who want to learn how to draw hands and heads and I like this book because it helps me get ideas of drawing and I really like the person who explains this.I chose this book because I'm interested in art and drawing.I learned how to draw head and hands from this book.
andrew is amazing,, he helped me alot
back to the basics.
This book helped me in my animation classes, understanding the hands and the proportion of the head in general. I always struggle with hands, but this book was very useful to practice in my sketchbook. Always practice drawing your own hand. I still struggle with perspective drawings of humans, but I can always open the book and look for references of the perspective of the head and face
كتاب رائع جدًا ومرجع جيد للرسامين يحتوي على تبسيط رسم الوجوه لمختلف الاعمار ورسم الوجوه من زاويا مختلفه وايضاً لمحة بسيطه عن رسم اليد
Andrew Loomis is one of my favorite illustrators. His teaching methods are some of the best in his class.
Essential reference for any illustrator.
This is one of Loomis' books that I was never able to locate a physical copy of and always wanted.
One of the biggest challenges for me is drawing hands and I look forward to having this reference to work with.
Working with the Loomis Estate, Titan Books has created a facsimile of the original publication.
The content is beautifully printed and the quality of the volume imparts a gravity to compliment the sense of genuineness - it is almost like having an early edition.As always, Loomis' methods are clearly presented and easy to grasp; his shared insights reflect a philosophy that is still valuable today.
This is the fourth Loomis book that I've read, and I'd have to admit it's the least essential one that I've read yet. That's not to say that there is nothing of value here (not to mention more beautiful art by Loomis), but in terms of nuts and bolts drawing instruction on the subject of hands and heads, there isn't as much information to learn as you might get from "Creative Illustration" or "Figure Drawing." I'd recommend this book, but only if you've already started an Andrew Loomis section in your library first.
At least several fabulous drawings of gorgeous male faces and heads. I love reading this book just for that. The plane-by-plane breakdowns for human faces are very useful, and the part I have the most trouble rendering correctly. I've seen contradictions across books, as if the human head isn't consistent lol. But, I'm probably going to stick with this one's instruction. I must stop relying on a library copy and get my own copy.
Thanks to the likes of Alex Ross, Andrew Loomis's series of books are starting to get the notice they deserve. Here he tackles heads, and to a lesser degree hands. I prefer Hogarth's books on both subjects better, however, Loomis excels at rendering each in tone. His tonally shaded heads are outstanding. Although the look is "dated", the material contained within in is tremendous.
This book is old but still a very good reference for drawing. I really like this one because it is all about drawing the head and hands from adults, old people to babies. Another great reference book! Check out my full reference books collection here: http://korpannita.wordpress.com/2013/...
A great book for providing some fundamental skills to practice drawing the head with. It takes quite a good look at proportions, the bone and muscle structure of the face and the planes of the head, all of which are helpful for doing studies or creating your own characters.
I highly recommend books by andrew loomis, because of the individual detailed subjects he draws and write about. And most importantly these books are for free download. They don't make them like this anymore.
Great teaching aid and source book for pencil portraits. Clear and illustrated guidance on getting proportions right however the subject's head is angled. Essential reading and exercises for life drawing.
It's an amazing book!! Unlike Figure drawing for all it's worth that I found a little difficult to start, so I chose Bridgman's Complete Guide to Drawing from Life to start all full body.However when you get used to shapes, Loomis is the best choice to move forward.
A classic with flawless illustrations and insightful instruction. Amazed at the detail and specific information on babies, toddlers, school children, teenagers, adults and seniors. Recommended for anyone serious about illustration.
This is a very detailed and helpful book, but again...his narrative often gets me. Loomis is always a good find and I highly recommend him for the beginner and intermediate levels if you are self-studying.
I'm in love with this book <3
من أجمل الكتب المجانية على النت لتعلم الرسم
Detaylı anlatımı olan, kafa ve el anatomisinin temellerini gösteren, yardımcı bir kitap. Hobi olarak ilgilenenlerin de sanatçı olma yolunda ilerleyenlerin de işine yarayacağını düşünüyorum.
i think this is wonder to me
I want to became a good pointer
Can read it here: http://illustrationage.files.wordpres...
It's a great book to teach you the technique of head and hand drawing ... It's simple and professional
it is amazingi mean the drawings are outsatanding
