https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/67340.Power
به جرات میتوانم بگویم که مابین تفکر رهبران و افراد با نفوذ که خواند آثارشان را مفید می دانم فقط کامو و راسل را دیدم که انسان را از کشتن دیگران به خاطر آرمان و تعصب بر حذر داشته اند بقیه کسانی که با آنها آشنا هستم یا سکوت کرده اند یا تشویق به آدمکشی البته گروه جدید و نو از انسانها را باید کشت که تمام تمایز همینجاست که میگویند ما با کشتار فلان گروه مخالفیم ولی نظر خاصی در خصوص این افراد یا این نژاد نداریم.
شیوه بحث راسل در این کتاب بیشتر تاریخی است تا تحلیلی و نمونههای تاریخی فراوانی را از چگونگی تراکم و تبلور قدرت و کاربرد آن نقل کردهاست، راسل قدرت اقتصادی را یک قدرت اصیل نمیداند بلکه میگوید که قدرتی مشتق است. او میگوید که قدرت اقتصادی مد نظرش با آنچه «کارل مارکس» مطرح کرده بود فرق دارد. منظور او از قدرت اقتصادی موثر بودن پول و کالا در زندگی انسانی است، و سپس میافزاید که «مارکس» و دیگر اقتصاددانان قدیم این نوع قدرت را نوعی قدرت اساسی قلمداد میکردندچاپ سوم: 1371
شیوه بحث راسل در این کتاب بیشتر تاریخی است تا تحلیلی و نمونه‌های تاریخی فراوانی را از چگونگی تراکم و تبلور قدرت و کاربرد آن نقل کرده‌است، راسل قدرت اقتصادی را یک قدرت اصیل نمی‌داند بلکه می‌گوید که قدرتی مشتق است. او می‌گوید که قدرت اقتصادی مد نظرش با آنچه «کارل مارکس» مطرح کرده بود فرق دارد. منظور او از قدرت اقتصادی موثر بودن پول و کالا در زندگی انسانی است، و سپس می‌افزاید که «مارکس» و دیگر اقتصاددانان قدیم این نوع قدرت را نوعی قدرت اساسی قلمداد می‌کردندچاپ سوم: 1371
کتاب در مورد نحوه ی به وجود اومدن،تاثیر و پیامدهای انواع قدرت است. کتاب تحلیلی همراه با مثالها و نمونه های تاریخی است. فصل های قدرت برهنه و قدرت انقلابی بسیار خواندنی بود و یه جورایی آینه ی انقلاب نور!! خودمون و نحوه ی حفظ و نگهداریش توسط سردمداران خودمون بود. کتاب رو بسیار دوس داشتم و حس میکنم نکات زیادی زیر دستم سر خورده است. احتمالن یک سری از فصل هاش رو دوباره و دوباره خواهم خواند :-)
Russell's analysis of forms of power is thorough and persuasive.
Though dated in some parts, the book is nonetheless highly relevant in modern times, where power everywhere still goes largely unchecked.
My favourite quote in the book: "The ultimate aim of those who have power (and we all have some) should be to promote social cooperation, not in one group as against another, but in the whole human race.
Such feelings can be diminished either directly by religion and morality, or indirectly by removing the political and economic circumstances for power between States and the connected competition for wealth between large national industries.

Essentially, Russell, surveying with dismay Europe in the late 1930s, and with the probability of an apocalyptic European war firmly in mind, descends from the Olympian heights of mathematics to clear up the bothersome matters of culture and society.
I happen to agree, and you can see a lot of future advances in social theory and social science taking shape in this book, often in a looser and more creative (if sometimes less accurate) form, so it works for me.
You'd probably be better off reading later and more rigorous work, but I enjoyed this immensely.
There's something to watching a superlative mind work with new ideas.
مترجم در مقدمه به سختی از کتاب انتقاد کرده که من فکر میکنم در این موارد حق با مترجم باشه: راسل معتقده که دموکراسی بهترین راه حل مساله قدرته.
منتهی کاستی بزرگ کتاب اینجا به چشم میاد که هیچ راهکار و توصیه ای برای گذار از اشکال دیگه حکومت به دموکراسی ارائه نشده.
در واقع توصیه های راسل برای رام کردن قدرت به کار جامعه ای میاد که حکومتی تا حدی دموکراتیک در اون حاکم باشه.
از ایرادات کتاب که بگذریم، راسل مفهوم قدرت و اشکال مختلف اون چه فردی و چه سازمانی رو به صورت عمیق و گسترده بررسی کرده.
It is strange to read a 20th century book with only a few foot notes and no bibliography.
Russell's writing style is entertaining and funny, but the general argumentation of the book is rather unconvincing, except the last chapter which happens to be very convincing.
This can happen.
Apparently Russell didn't like economists (or rather their idea's) which means he probably didn't know their idea's, or at least didn't understand them.
Too bad.
First time I'm looking forward to reading some books of an author while not being convinced by the book's message.
Russell is one of them.
Took me forever to read this.
Picked up an old hardback copy in a charity shop for next to nothing as I was keen to get into Russell, but I might have made the wrong choice in this one as a first read!
Some great philosophical nuggets to be found in amongst very very dry historical text.
I did like his writing style but this took me far longer to read than most other books as it felt like a massive effort to even pick up the damn thing let alone engage with it!If anyone has any Russell which they think I should read please don't hesitate to recommend, I am very keen to try again!
After two years of reading a chapter every now and again I have finally finished. It's a slow book. The concepts are big, and trying to get your head around them requires you to read, stop, slow down, think, reread. But once you learn to accept that this is going to take a while, its magic really does start to show.As does it's magical humour, which amazingly had me laughing loudly and scribbling down quotes to share.
Most excellent. Needs to be read again.
Russell'ın okuduğum en ağır kitabı oldu bir kere onu söyleyeyim.
Uzun bir sürede ancak bitirebildim.
Machiavelli'nin Prens'i, Hobbes'un Leviathan'ı Aristoteles'in Politikası ve Platon'un Devlet'i öncelikle yakalayabildiğim referanslardan bazılarıydı.Alıntı 1: “Lenin, Hitler ve Mussolini yükselişlerini demokrasiye borçluydular”Alıntı 2: “Askeri fetihler ancak psikolojik fetihlerle desteklendiklerince istikrarlıdır”Alıntı 3: “Ulusal iktidarda propagandanın oynadığı rol, eğitimin yaygınlaşmasıyla birlikte artmıştır.
İnsanların çoğu zorluklara katlanmayı yine büyük bir bölümü de ölmeyi göze almadıkça bir ulus modern savaşlarda başarı kazanamaz.
İnsanlara zorluğa katlanmayı, ölmeyi göze aldırmak için de iktidarda bulunanlar, uyruklarını savaşın önemli -şehit olmaya değecek kadar önemli – bir şey olduğuna inandırmak zorundadırlar.”Russell hayran olduğum yazarlardan/entelektüellerden birisi.
Interesting insights into the dynamics of power in politics and history.
Power is Bertrand Russell’s attempt to explain the mechanics and motivations behind the men who control the world and have an inordinately large influence on history, which at the time of writing included Hitler and Stalin.
While it did not achieve the notoriety or influence Russell hoped it would, the book is a depository of enduring observations and good sense that explains so much about the world and the madmen we empower to run it, written with a characteristic Russellian combination of logic and wit.For all its good sense though, the book is very much a product of its time.
It is perhaps my beef with the tradition of 'analytic' philosophy in which he occupies a central place (Wittgenstein is not possible without Russell), or that he mostly writes as if he is giving a lecture to a layman.
I just don't see him thinking in and within the text, and as a result, he appears simply as giving a dry and boring lecture regardless of what he is talking about.
I am not really sure who he is writing for, either, but good luck and god bless to those brothers and sisters.
More observational than analytical, the book is most interesting in its historical context.
Written just prior to the outbreak of the second world war, it shows an acute awareness and fear of the ways in which desire for power and forms of power effect states and rest often ultimately on military power.
The book also has some interesting insights on the ownership/control divide and the distinction between desire for power as a means and as an end answer the for s and organisations that creates, but intriguing treads are dropped often.
I think perhaps my main problem was that I was not expecting the kind of book Russell was interested in writing here.
For a philosophically inclined.
If power drives the human, then love has no chance to save the world, since power is fear in disguise.
Yet, is the power to save from brutal death equal to the power of condemnation to it.
This is where the coin takes decidedly two sides.
In the end, a bit incomplete to my liking - since the decisions proposed are idealistic.
The ideas of human re-education, and abolishment of war by making all humanity a united body rather than divided by religion, countries, states, colors so on/forth are given.
But isn't war in human genes?
Although I am a keen admirer of Russell, this book has produced the weakest conclusions of all the works I've read of him so far.
Either he lazily arrives at already existing truths about the topic of power, or in other cases, where things get a little messy, he dismisses the logical outcome as something too remote to cover in this work.
Throughout the whole book I had a feeling someone was watching over Bertie's shoulder when writing this, threatening him with a stick whenever he'd dare to reach an outlandish conclusion, which is quite ironic for a work on Power.
This is appearantly one of Russell's worst writings; seems better than Nietzsche's best! :DRussell is my favorite Philosopher. I feel mentally close to him; when I read his writings, I feel "the bastard's been lucky being born before me, otherwise I would have said all these stuff before him!"His writings represent his mind's "formation"(couldn't find the right word for ساختار, sorry): Brief clear logic (= ~(Nietzsche!) ) and playful childish vision
While this book was an interesting read, quite accessible for a book on philosophy and makes me interested in reading more by Russell, overall the book left me slightly underwhelmed. I expected that this book would expound a universal theory on the nature and origins of power, valid all throughout human history. However, many of the viewpoints presented, while it may be valid in 1930s England, are no longer valid or at least have their validity limited to Europe and other Western countries.
Incisive analysis of Power. Although this book turns out to be a little boring in the first half, the second part, in which all the brilliant ideas contains, really fascinate me. The part on moral codes as well as power philosophy is really worth reading. Russell had also instilled his own ideals in education in this book.
ALDIM
Kitab-ı Mukaddes
خالی از لطف نیست خواندن کتاب، ای کاش راسل در زمان حال در مورد قدرت می نوشت، رسانه و تغییر حالت قدرت جای بررسی بیشتری داره.ترجمه نجف دریا بندری خوب بود.
Russell'ın iflah olmaz deli çılgın bir farklılığı var. Dönemine, geleceğe ve geçmişe çok doğru tespitler yaptığı bir eser. Özellikle Örgütler ve Birey bölümü etkileyiciydi.
