https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/265264.One
In this alternate version of their lives they do not wed, and neither finds the happiness that in their actual life they do achieve.'What if we could talk face-to-face with the people we were in the past, with the people we are in parallel lifetimes, in alternate worlds?
اما اگر با هر بار خواندن آن، سردرگم یا بى تفاوت شدى، بدان كه این كتاب تو نیست، و آن را دوست نخواهى داشت.
If you've ever seen yourself in someone else, or felt how they bring something out in you...if you've ever wondered what a world without war would be like, or a world that bombed instead of blinked to "end" the Cold War...if you've ever wondered how life would be if you'd met your soulmate at a different time in your life, or felt like your soul is connected with everyone else's...this book is totally for you. Simply open your mind a little, sit back and enjoy the ride.
I bought this book many years ago, after reading Jonathan Livingston Seagull and Illusions.
Both cases not being true, I found this book more like science-fiction masquerading as philosophy.I imagine the author re-living all his late-night dorm-room conversations and early adult cocktail/dinner parties, and never having been able to get a word in edgewise, he constructs this venue through which to express all his varied philosophies.
Occasionally, reading the book was downright painful; several times, I actually put down the book, rolling my eyes, unable to continue.I plan to re-read Illusions and Jonathan Livingston Seagull, just to be sure.
Let me be clear: when I read this I was all about finding my soul mate and blah, blah, blah.
And now I know there's no mystical meeting of souls.
My true love is the man who takes out the garbage because I don't want to.
And I'm his true love, because I keep the house tidy and figure the taxes, things he doesn't want to do.
And we stay together not because there are a million alternate worlds in which we were fated to be together, but because we make each other laugh, and bring each other drinks and pills when we're sick.Sorry the marriage didn't last, Bach.

One of my favourites. The book draws you in with ideas of parallel worlds, alternate pasts, crossroads... you are taken on an exploration with Richard and Leslie of whether choices could really change our destiny and it all ties together strangely..."We fly up high," I said trembling with insight, "and we have perspective!" We see every choice and fork and crossroad. But the lower we fly, the more we lose perspective. And when we land, our perspective on all the other choices is gone! We focus on detail: daily, hourly, minute-ly detail, alternate lifetimes forgotten!"
What can I say. Another brilliant book by Richard. Compelling.
,,-Ir kai tiktai šioje šalyje bent keletas žmonių suvoks,kad vienas žmogus gali turėti kelis gyvenimus,mes iš karto pasakysime jiems:ne, kiekvienas žmogus turi nesuskaičiuojamą galybę gyvenimų, ir visi jie vyksta iš karto, vienu metu."
I like airplanes as much as the next person but this book nearly killed that love.Brief synopsis: Richard Bach is back.
She is a young Polynesian girl for some reason (they are an elderly white couple so...okay) Polynesian girl shows them alternate realities they could have lived in including Stalinist Russia, where apparently reading any kind of book whatsoever was banned as illegal (seriously, what?), and a utopia where everybody loves each other because they all rally around plane races.
Even the love between soul mates can be mortal...it's all about us,we must struggle to be deserved for being an eternal soul mate...هر چه اوج می گیریم، چشم اندازمان گسترده تر می شود و گزینش ها و دو راهی ها و میان برها را بهتر می بینیم وهر چه فرود بیاییم، چشم اندازمان را از دست می دهیم و هنگام فرود، درک و دریافتمان از گزینش های دیگر بر باد می رود. حواسمان پی جزئیات می رود: جزئیات روزمره ی ساعت به ساعت و دقیقه به دقیقه و به این ترتیب زندگی های همتا را فراموش می کنیم.
I think, in my young adult years, this book, more than any of the Bach books that I poured over, affected the way I looked at the choices that I might make in my life and how they would affect my future. In this timeless classic, Bach discourses on the endless divergence of roads not taken and the endless possibilities of self that must arise upon personal reflection.
One is an easily digested novel that takes the familiar concept of visiting alternate versions of yourself, and adds some philosophical underpinnings.
Perhaps the biggest disappointment in One is the fact that the main characters never really grow or change, they merely provide insight to their alternate selves.
This might feel satisfying in some novels, but because this book has some science fiction aspirations we learn that there are as many different versions of you as there are choices in a lifetime.
This makes most of the story largely irrelevant to the main characters, although it works well to frame discussions about the nature of individuality, morality, etc.
Book nicely continues and builds on the author's philosophies introduced in his other books such as nothing happens without a reason, that we can and should learn from everything that happens to us, and that there is more to the world than what we see immediately around us.Some of the ideas that I noted down: a tiny change today brings us to a dramatically different tomorrow; we design our lives through the power of our choices; character comes from following our highest sense of right, from trusting ideals without being sure they will work; an easy life doesn't teach us anything - in the end it's the learning that matters, what we've learned and how we've grown; there is no past or future, everything that can happen is happening now, time is only our name for the motion of consciousness.
This is one of my favorites books. This was my first approach to reading by pleasure.I read it during my exchange year in Austria durin 2000 and 2001. I gift from my father.
With this book Bach gave us one pearl, you can wear it like a charm, keep it in 'jewelry box' in your mind or throw it back to the ocean, depends of your personality.I was on step to love it, but now just like it.
I share author's vision for most of the issues, like religion, ecology and war; was fun and useful to explore alternatives to a situations in one life.
But he pushed me away with this part for (view spoiler)[ bringing back from the veil between the worlds.
(hide spoiler)]I'll keep it like jewelry in 'jewelry box' in my mind, but not in my favorite.
This book is about a couple, deeply in love, who are taking a ride in their own private small plane.
They cross into an "alterate parallel universe", if you will, that allows them to see their lives in a completely different light.
This "alternate parallel universe" shows how their lives would have changed had little things throughout their lives had not happened, the most importanyt being, if they never had met.The book is written in the 1st person.
The theme is ultimate love and consequences of one's choices.I read this book a very long time ago, at a dark time in my life.
This was a very influential book for me.
I read it in high school and kept going back to it for inspiration.
I read a variety of Richard Bach's books.
I own more than I read because I could never get into the more technical flying ones, but I loved these books in this order: (Best first:) One, The Bridge Across Forever, & Jonathan Livingston Seagull.
Those are the ones I remember off hand.
I did read one written by Bach's son and I really enjoyed that also.
Inspiring writing.
I don't mind that Bach is divorced and has written books about relationships.
This was my second time through this book.
It is still one of my favorites from Richard Bach.
I love the idea of alternate lives all being lived at the exact same time.
This book takes it to a large picture.
But even on the small level, that there is a me out there who did not quit my job and start my own business.
It may or may not have any basis in reality, but I love the IDEA of it.
It reminds me that even today I can change the course of my life by the decisions I make today.
This book is about the choices we make and how they shape our lives. Best of all its about being able to change your life at any given moment by making the right choices.The second most romantic book (after the Bridge Across Forever) I have ever read.Richard Bach at his best. The book can be summarised in his own words:"I gave my life to become the person I am right now. Was it worth it?”
What if all time is now. The past, present and future, all accessible to us in this very moment, all we have to do is make the switch. What if you could give a message to your past self, what would you say? What if you could receive a message from your future self, would you accept it? Richard Bach looks at these questions and more in this spirit touching work. Get ready to have your perception expanded.
Just finished reading One by Richard Bach - a great book on a strange twist to multiple dimensions and realities taking place simultaneously; instead of reincarnation, it's continual-carnation.. Imagine meeting multiple you's, ones you don't remember experiencing.. Would you make different choices? Have those choices become different realities, existing simultaneous, with no time in the conventional sense..
I couldn't say enough about this book. The writer really just guides the reader through basic terms in life that could be associated with spirituality. He is focused on love, hope, happiness and existence without relying on anyone, but yourself. " An easy life doesn't teach us anything. In the end, it's the learning that matters. What we've learned and how we've grown."
With a little knowledge in today's Quantum Jumping and Quantum Physics "One" is a very interesting read. You may enjoy it as a novel or/and embrace it at your level of Consciousness...I am a fan of Richard's books. Love his style. I own a 1988 hard copy of this book given to me as a Christmas present by my husband Bruce.
To call this book just inspirational would be an understatement.'One' by Richard Bach have been able to transcend all the boundaries of imagination and shine itself like a work of art. Ideas in this book are so enthralling and revolutionary that it is opens a million other ideas and possibilities. Even though primarily a sci-fi, it is much much more than that...
This book has more complicated philosophies than what Jonathan Livingston Seagull possesses. Bach's trademark are never-ending, interrelated, and sometimes-hard-to-get-but-easily-digested-by-the-subconscious-mind philosophies. If you want your mind to be confused yet enlightened, read this book. Sometimes I think Bach tortures his readers first before he lets them realize what's he's saying.
I've read this book a couple of times, as with much of Bach's writtings, while you read it, it just makes you feel full of hope for humanity. It also makes me feel responsible for our world's future. Because after all we are all ONE.
I read this book 10 - 15 years ago, while I was in Eastbourne, England.After 15 minutes, I don't want this book have an end page!!!I really like all the plot flying around with small plane, going throught many worlds.Can't hardly put it down!!!
incredibly creative point of viw about life and decisions! "a little change today is a big change tomorrow" RBUn increiblemente creativo punto de vista acerca de la vida y la toma de desiciones. "Un pequeno cambio hoy, es un gran cambio manana" RB
Like many of his books, One focuses on the idea of personal choice, and how much control we really have over our lives, shown here literally! It will make you smile, it will make you cry, it will make you want to run out into the street and dance alone at midnight for the sheer love of CHOICE.
This is a fun adventure into other possible realities. It's full of interesting perspectives on a lot of different subjects, stretching your imagination and giving you plenty to think about afterword.
