https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/349090.Infinity_Welcomes_Careful_Drivers
Ok this has been a blast of pure nostalgia for me - I loved the series when it first aired, it had for me the right mix or humour and science fiction.
I guess for me I have always been suspicious of humour and SF simply because its been too easy to laugh at the genre and its fans rather than try and be clever and laugh with them.
I was going to write a review for this book that I last read a few years ago, but I thought sod it, it must be time for a re-read.This is where it all started, one of the greatest SciFi series ever, a brilliant cast of characters and funny as hell story.
I've watched the series so many times now that when reading the books the characters voices come so easily to me.
Gazpacgo Soup I can't say exactly when I first encountered Red Dwarf – I was probably sitting at home one night, board out of my brains, and channel surfing, when suddenly I discovered this show that looked very science-fictiony on the ABC and was instantly intrigued. While I can't remember the first episode that I ever watched (though I believe it was the third season), I do remember instantly falling in love with it. In fact, at the time I was still really interested in film making and seeing
Gazpacgo Soup	I can't say exactly when I first encountered Red Dwarf – I was probably sitting at home one night, board out of my brains, and channel surfing, when suddenly I discovered this show that looked very science-fictiony on the ABC and was instantly intrigued.
In a way he is carefree and really not worried about what people think of him, or what the next day would bring (and despite the fact that he is a working class slob, he is actually pretty smart, though these smarts would be considered street smarts).
I think that the overall tone was more serious and dark than the show, which never at all left me feeling sad.
Then there's the fact that I can relate to everyone hating/disliking me despite how hard I try at anything.
So, yeah, sad.Also, the ending.
You can't give me a downer book with a downer ending.Despite all that, it was funnier than most of what I've read recently, it gave me some awesome background on Red Dwarf, which I can now go around lecturing people on.
(See, that's probably part of the people disliking me thing).
Fan-smegging-tastic!
It's the boys from the Dwarf!
I loved this book so much, and if you enjoyed the tv show you will too.Rob Grant and Doug Naylor outdid themselves; this was the first book in years that has made me laugh out loud.
It starts off explaining how Lister ended up on Red Dwarf and takes off from there.Some of the plot is familiar, some is new.
But the authors managed to gather together storylines from episodes into a whole that not only makes sense, but fills original episode plot holes at the same time.Anyway, it's great.
Just absolutely awesome stuff! Such a fun read and funny as hell. Reminiscent of Douglas Adams but certainly not a direct copy. If anything perhaps more brilliant in some areas and a bit inferior in others. The whole bit about Rimmer making a copy of himself was just phenomenal. Want to dive right into the sequel but I’m in the middle of too many other books at the moment. But grand. Highly recommended!
Nearly everything anyone says is meant to be sarcastic, though some of the jokes don't make sense to Americans (or at least this American).While this is likely to disturb those who are obsessed with continuity (I would normally be in that category), this book does have some distinct deviations from the TV series, which makes the relation of the episodes (more later) more cohesive.
Sexual situations crop up in jokes and surroundings (the beginning details a trek to an android brothel, Lister own a pair of underwear he considers very "lucky", Cat is sex obsessed, etc.) Violence includes a man committing suicide, descriptions of a man being blown up, and several deaths.Overall:This was not bad, but if you are a Red Dwarf fan (like myself), you might be a little disappointed.
This is a lot like the television show episodes in book format so of course I love it!
I've been a fan of the show since it started and was gleeful when I found there were actually novels!
It tells the tale of the Red Dwarf crew from the start.
Lister's back story of how he ended up on Red Dwarf was something I had wanted to know for a long time.This is one book I would compare to Adams style and it holds its own admirably.
I really must find the rest of the books they have written for Red Dwarf.
Seriál je moje totální srdcovka, viděl jsem ho opakovaně a určitě se k němu ještě několikrát dostanu. Knihu jsem tak už před mnoha lety četl a ani teď nezklamala. Je to trochu jiné než epizodní seriál plný gagů - víc upovídané, hlídá si to příběh a nějakou jednotnou linii. I proto si to drží svoji vlastní trpaslíkovskou atmosféru. A i proto mě baví v textu nacházet to, co v seriálu není (nebo naopak)."Denně si bral asi sedm nebo osm přestávek na spaní, které, jak tvrdil, jsou pro něho zcela zásadní: jinak by neměl dostatek energie na hlavní večerní spánek."
As a huge Red Dwarf fan, I naturally love the four books based on the series too. Chris Barrie is the perfect narrator for this story. Obviously, he *is* Rimmer, but as a former impressionist, he also does wonderful imitations of the other cast members' voices. Great fun for fans of the show, but this could also be enjoyed by those coming to the characters and story for the first time.
Well I certainly enjoyed it and do hope to see the show sometime, but it just seemed like a comedic boys party primarily. Still I loved some of the interactions and ideas behind this. I wonder if I'd enjoy the sitcom.
Some jokes are re-used a little too freely from the TV series and there's a couple of spots where the episodic building blocks betray themselves (Lister's determination to go back into stasis until they get back to Earth is handwaved away a little too easily in both the TV series and novel, but in the novel is more jarring given we move into the Nova 5 storyline almost immediately), but overall this works well.As the novel continues, the more amusing and comic moments start giving way to moments of pathos, even tragedy, which gives the novel more depth than it first appears.
Given that the TV series, particularly in later series, prided itself in the use of real science to back up the story, the somewhat shoddy application of it here is unfortunate.Overall, Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers (****) is a splendid comic SF novel, funny but with real depth of character.
Se você gosta de Mochileiro das Galáxias, recomendo esse livro aqui de todo o meu coração. Engraçadíssimo, não só com punchlines e frases de efeito, mas com várias observações estilo Douglas Adams, um enredo muito bem feito e personagens que, apesar de serem caricatos, conseguem ter profundidade e nos fazem querer acompanhá-los.
I'd heard of the TV show but never seen it, so my viewpoint might be a bit different than many of the ones who have read the book.
I have no idea how similar or different they are, what more (or less) there is than in the TV series or even how the characters are supposed to look.The first thing I noticed was the douglasadamsness.
As soon as the shit hit the fan, so to speak, the story started to roll a lot better.The characters worked and the humor worked, although there were times when the joke was taken a bit too far and thus undoing its funniness.

I was hooked from start to finish. If you loved the show then you will enjoy this book. Meet all your characters anew and see them in a different light while at the same time seeing them from the first season of the show in places. An enlightening look into how Lister came into the job of tech on the Red Dwarf, you will not help but hear the characters speaking to you as you read it, seeing the world anew.
I wanted to give this five stars, in honour of both my 11 year old self's love for this series (and all of the tie-in materials) and Chris Barrie's immense voice acting talent, but I'm resisting. Mostly because my version of the audiobook played a musak version of the theme song, in its entirety, every half hour - but also because, as I remember, the later Red Dwarf novels are a lot more engaging (and so giving a four-star rating encourages me to re-read them!)
Ja som takmer aj zabudla ake potrafene je toto dielko :-) ale pamat osviezena a naladena na dalsi diel
Full review on my podcast, SFBRP episode #280.
As reflected in “The Prisoner”, individuality depends on challenge, defence, questioning and refusal to conform.Although Dark Star also gave the writers a nudge, the prototype of Red Dwarf was the sketch "Dave Hollins: Space Cadet" in the Radio 4 show "Son of Cliche", by the same authors.
Alone, the crew all dead, lost in space, only the computer to talk to and going crazy.Just as in Sartre’s play, Red Dwarf begins with three characters who can’t escape each other’s company.
Probably more of a three-point-five than a three but not quite a four at all.
Some bits were really funny and some bits I just thought, "would this be better if I had watched even one episode of the show?
Which I'm going to do, eventually, it's just that I happened to have the time for audio books and not a TV show at the moment.Which, let me say, I think I would have enjoyed the book less if I had tried reading it.
It's just that the accents and intonations fit so well that I couldn't have replicated that at all in my head.
Zajímavé čtení i pro někoho, kdo nezná seriál Červený trpaslík nazpaměť.
Zejména proto, že toto je první díl, úplný začátek, uvedení do příběhu.Obdivuji autorův vhled do zákonitostí fyziky i filozofie.
Byly chvíle, kdy jsem si říkala: "Ty vole, no jo, jak to, že mě to nenapadlo?" A v zápětí jsem se začala strašlivě chechtat vtipu, kterým celou tu filozoficky nebo technologicky závažnou myšlenku poslal do kytek.Seznámení s typickými figurkami seriálu - Rimmerem, Listerem, Hollym, Kocourem a Krytonem je poněkud intimnější než při jejich pouhém pozorování na obrazovce, tady můžeme číst v jejich myšlenkách a přáních.Jedné věci ale nerozumím: Proč musí hologram spát?
I'm dead, Dave.
I'm not a big sci-fi reader… I remember Red Dwarf (the tv show) fondly (but only vaguely) from my high school years, but hadn't watched it since then.I found the book at a used book sale and expected it to be a bit dated and not very well-written, but in fact it's very funny and charming (although there's a very obvious debt to Douglas Adams) and even more surprisingly, there are very prescient ideas about virtual reality and technology that seem ahead of their time even by science fiction standards.
There are themes of sociology, economics, politics, and futurism that hold up very well.
Silly and nostalgic automatic 5 star from me.
A very fun, Hitchhiker's Guide-esque adventure story with vivid characters and biting wit!
He survives an accident in stasis, that kills the rest of the crew of the ship he is on and forces the ship computer to travel 3 million years away from Earth, before waking him up from stasis.The GoodThe book mixes humor and science fiction in a great way.
Okay, I have seen the TV series, but still the book is mostly about Lister and there is not a lot going on.
Only at the end do we get a bit of suspense.The UglyThe science fiction elements seem pretty tame (by today’s standards).ConclusionI like this book, because it’s funny.
Ich hab zwar "Per Anhalter durch die Galaxis" noch nicht gelesen und kann deshalb die Bücher nicht miteinander vergleichen, aber dieses Buch ist ein witzig, skurriles Weltraumabenteuer dass richtig Spaß macht zu lesen.Man muss der Geschichte aber ein paar Seiten geben um die Handlung zu verstehen und die orginelle Welt.Es geht im Prinzip um Dave Lister.
Schlussendlich verpflichtet er sich für die "Red Dwarf" (ein riesiges kilometerlanges rotes Raumschiff).Es gibt so viele skurrile Charaktere und Situationen um alle aufzuzählen.
Beispielsweise Rimmer - der schon unzählige Male durch die Offfiziersprüfung gefallen ist.
Aber jetzt geht es sich ja nicht mehr aus, also muss ein neuer Lernplan her.
I have to admit that I haven't seen the show.
As a matter of fact I only found out that there is a show half way through the book .
Characters and concepts were introduced in the beginning that took forever to come into action (some of them never did).
The story itself didn't start until one third into the book.
Some of the concepts I haven't seen much of before.The book ends with a cliffhanger, but it didn't impress me enough to find out what happens next.
Red Dwarf has long been a favorite show. The adventure of Lister, Rimmer, Cat, and Kryton are some of the best sci-fi around. Like the time with the walking sausuage that wasn’t really a sausage. Or Kryton’s parts. Or Cat’s coolness. Or Lister’s devotion to Chrissie. And Holly, who can forget Holly. This audio book is read by Chris Barry who played Rimmer. If you haven’t seen Red Dwarf (which makes you in violation of numerous space mining codes), you know him perhaps from the Tomb Raider movies
Red Dwarf has long been a favorite show.
The adventure of Lister, Rimmer, Cat, and Kryton are some of the best sci-fi around.
This audio book is read by Chris Barry who played Rimmer.
If you haven’t seen Red Dwarf (which makes you in violation of numerous space mining codes), you know him perhaps from the Tomb Raider movies where you played Lara Croft’s butler.
The novel has plots from the first season of Dwarf and includes the theme song.
There is more of Lister’s back story and the first meeting between Rimmer and Lister is a must read (or listen).
