https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6295.Howl_and_Other_Poems
When you add to this the fact that Ginsberg delights in improvisation, and once embraced as his model the “no revisions necessary” Kerouac prose style, it is little wonder that many of his lines fail to sing.But, as I said, it is easy to underestimate him too, particularly if we “just sit down and read” his poetry, divorcing it from the world of cultural influences and public performance that he loved.

Allen Ginsberg, a sad and lonely man, wrote this to impress Kerouac, another sad and lonely man. Over the years, a lot of sad and lonely people haven't gotten over the how much that first fucking line resonates with them. The whole best minds/generation/destroyed/madness line.Ten years ago, this was a 5-star poem. Ten years from now, it will be a 3-star poem. That's just called growing up, folks.
And this is simply an opinion.Anyway, whereas I do appreciate the honesty and the experiences and sentiments that Ginsberg brought to these pages, I feel like many significant matters get lost in a haze of pretentiousness, self-indulgence and not an extraordinary writing (I take away the political context and there's not much to hold onto), in this particular case and from my perspective.
Even though I always say to myself that literature does not have to be a source of misery so if I am not enjoying a book, I can leave it behind, I did try to finish this one because, well, it had less than 100 pages...
Muddled, addled and overrated. In fact, any rating, even a single star or half-moon, is too much for this amateur-hour of a "poem." It might have played well when shouted out to a roomful of arrogant drunks, but on the page it droops, it teeters under the weight of all of those ungainly adjectivies and finally collapses in a fog of its own flatulance. I saw the best minds of my generation ignore this long, long limerick. Now, only nostalgists and know-naughts still cling to its pages of ill-repute. Why?
Between every sentence transpires the hubris of being THE NEW POET, and of being A COOL OUTCAST, and a member of that little BOYS CLUB Ginsberg brings up again and again although it weakens his writing every time.
I heard so much about the Beats Generation.
For a reason I cannot begin to fathom, they just kept up the illusion going in the literary community instead of peaking at 17.I don't see what Ginsberg brings to the table; what he invented, what he created with this; I don't see, read, feel the HOWL he's trying (is he even trying?) to express.
Nothing like a bit of controversy to keep the establishment ticking over, and in "Howl" it's easy to see why as this was seen as a shocking and powerful piece of obscenity in the eyes of some, but for many more it's viewed as a celebrated manifesto of great importance for the beat Generation of the 1950s that helped to stick a big fat middle finger up to sexual repression and capitalism. This is a vital collection of Ginsberg's work that will always stand the test of time.
I feel similar ways about Allen Ginsberg and Adele. While I appreciate the skill behind both of their work, I find both of their material overwrought, contrary to popular opinion. Yes, I see how Ginsberg's poetry revolted against oppressive forces and mainstream, heteronormative America. Its lack of style and nuance still frustrates me. Props to him for lending fire to a revolution that uplifted marginalized voices, even if I myself find his writing unfulfilling and too frantic, despite the positive impact of its shock value.
I had goosebumps while reading Howl. It's like nothing I have ever read!
Considered a masterpiece of the "beat generation" writers, it reads like the jumbled rambling of a drug crazed alcoholic, preoccupied with sex and spiritual enlightenment, while battling mental instability and depression. But I "get it", and I appreciate the significance of it's contribution to the history of the hipster generation, and how they and their writing influenced the culture of the 20th century.
When can I go into the supermarket and buy what I need with my good looks? On my recent trip to San Francisco I was obliged to buy a copy of this book from the City Lights bookstore. Well, that isn’t the whole story. I visited the store without knowing anything of its history, left with a copy of Galileo’s Sidereus Nuncius, and then shamefacedly returned to pick up this book when my mother informed me, five minutes later, that it is famous for the “Howl” trial. I had heard recordings of Ginsber
I had heard recordings of Ginsberg reciting “Howl” many times, but I had never actually owned a copy of this poem.
But I am getting rather off the track of this book review.It is difficult to evaluate “Howl,” since everything innovative about it has been thoroughly absorbed into the culture: obscenity, drugs, jazz, eastern mantras, free-form poems that follow the breath, and so on.
For with Ginsberg’s “Howl” I hear the first grumblings of a new phenomenon in society: a group of disaffected youths becoming self-aware as a loose movement—as a counter-culture.
Todos ellos son buenos pero carezco de notas respecto a ellos debido a que los leí mientras iba de pie en el metro a las 8 de la mañana, por tanto no puedo reseñarlos de manera correcta sin que se me mezclen los mensajes de cada uno.Esta colección incluye además algunos primeros poemas los cuales difieren considerablemente respecto a los anteriores por su estructura: aquí se mantiene la rítmica clásica, la longitudes más corta y hay un mayor uso del sentido figurado, no obstante el sentimiento triste y perdido esinamovible.Al final esta es una colección que merece ser leída (al menos por Howl y America), ya sea que te guste o no la poesía, porque el trabajo de Ginsberg es distinto de la poesía clásica, más cercano a una buena conversación que a un compilado de versos que disfrutar en tu soledad.
Yep: a big dark cloud hovering over us that was getting larger and larger and would swallow us all and we'd never come back and the fucker would never go away and God only knows what else she must have rambled about, because at that point she buried her face in my hair - leaving a chewing gum and a good deal of saliva in it, by the way - trembling, drooling, crying.
One wonders what kind of political opinion, commitment, interest might fit in Ginsberg's way of life.
Many say that this is nothing more than an overrated, incomprehensible bunch of words about sex, alcohol and drugs. And they are right. But poetry is not about words, it's about the feeling they are capable of evoke. And Howl evoke a lot of feelings, at least for me. The eternal search of the meaning of life, the conflicted relation between the fear and mystification of death, the wonders and terrors of growing old.   “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysteric
Many say that this is nothing more than an overrated, incomprehensible bunch of words about sex, alcohol and drugs.
Then, you can relate with this "overrated, incomprehensible bunch of words about sex, alcohol and drugs", and that's all that matters.
mind blowing! i can't wait to read more of his poetry
I'm on a Beat experiment, of sorts, so bear with me.
I'd read Howl a while back, but mostly because my then boyfriend was obsessed with Allen Ginsberg.
So I read Howl, I liked it.
I read Howl again after I read On the Road, and I actually, genuinely liked it.
Which begs the question, why o why is Kerouac is considered the best of the Beats.
Between this and the half of Naked Lunch I've read, I not only find Ginsberg and Burroughs smarter and more pleasant, but also less verbose and self-absorbed.
My unadulterated hatred for Kerouac apart, I do have more to say about this collection.
Ginsberg takes you there.
I have a problem with Allen Ginsberg.
The titular poem of this volume in particular.It goes beyond his adolescent fixation on the prurient and the vulgar.See, I know for a fact that he was a pedophile.
I studied under one of his friends, someone who admitted that Ginsberg was sexually attracted to little boys -- to the extent that Ginsberg's friends all refused to let the poet be alone (or, in some cases, even around) their small boys.
He told us some of the things Ginsberg said about small boys.
A pedophile with a fondness for vulgarity, lionized.
Then around 1956 City Lights published this little, very little book Howl.
A year later Ginsberg got lucky when a plain-clothes SF cop came into the City Lights book Store and bought a copy of Howl, arresting the store manager and subsequently the publisher for dealing in obscene material.
I've listened to it many times on YouTube https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WkNp5...Howl, the first poem, has a wonderful rhythm and cadence to it.
In the book Ginsberg said he got the title from Kerouac and some of the phrases.I don't understand all of it, for instance, what does "negro streets" mean, if anything?
Allen Ginsberg typifies the beat generation.
The only exception to this is Jack Kerouac, who was actually a good writer, and did claim numerous times that he was not a beat.
That being said, Howl is one of the longest, most terrible pieces of rubbish I've read in a long time.
(Gasps) This really seems to be more than a long kvetch more than anything.
In my opinion, if you're going to kvetch, then at least incorporate some skill in it.
I pose this question towards you.[The best minds of your generation most likely thought Howl was terrible.:]
"who in humorless protest overturned only one symbolic pingpong table, resting briefly in catatonia,
ah, ranty rants and beautiful language and a deep deep sense of the long poetic sentence. and madness writ large. and industrial dissolution. and that wasteland that is america.
2nd reading: I understood more references and it only got better.what can I say? I'm apparently a sucker for beat poetry and anything Allen Ginsberg. this was a very short book of poems and the first one (Howl) was simply amazing. it made me feel so many things so suddenly. the rest of the poems are good as well but Howl was something else.
They're Holden Caulfield, they're Jim Stark, they're Don Quixote tilting at windmills.But the truth is that the Beats, that Allen Ginsberg, that Howl, was revolutionary at a time when poetry could spark a revolution - and at a time when such sparks were as much dangerous as they were subversive.
But where the cultural value of this collection is concerned, it is also incredibly real.Because while some notions Ginsberg seems to deem the wildest of dreams have become a reality we are accustomed to today, others are ones we have yet to achieve.
i would say "suck my dick" but even that's too much respect for a boring pedophile
Vibrante e impulsionante. Que mais dizer? Possivelmente muito.A edição bilingue da Relógio D'Água motivou-me a ler Uivo e Outros Poemas; nunca antes tinha lido um livro de poesia não lusófona. No fim tem ainda uma secção de notas que elucida sobre factos biográficos, históricos, geográficos, etc, importantes para a compreensão da obra.
And especially secret gas station solipsisms of Jon's and hometown alleys too."Now I suppose he could have said that the secret hero of this poem, this cocksman, this adonis of Denver, joy to the memory of his innumerable conquests was at the Waldorf Historia, or at the Diner at Chasa's, or after one or two drinks was going to bed at the Stork Club.
Whether Howl is or is not obscene is of little importance to our world, faced as it is with the threat of physical survival.
It is interesting that the person applying such standards of censorship rarely feels as if their own physical or moral health is in jeopardy.
I just finished reading an essay about Ginsberg's "Howl," paused to reflect and decided to re-read the poem - as well as the others included in this little book.
Reading "Howl" is a little bit like getting dragged into the underbelly of New York by one's peter pan collar and being forced to meet the "angelheaded" and the "hollow eyed" who are continually appearing and disappearing.
Wives in the avocados, babies in the tomatoes!--and you, García Lorca, what were you doing down by the watermelons?"I was also moved by "Song" which is about the "weight of love." I kept thinking of his mother, the schizophrenic, who held Ginsberg so close to her during his formative years.
Tell me comparing your life as the son of two artists in a self-imposed sexed-up exile from the most affluent society on earth to that of a Holocaust victim isn't exorbitantly self-absorbed.Now tell me this isn't a great line: "in my dreams you walk dripping from a sea-journey on the highway across America in tears to the door of my cottage in the Western night" Ginsberg borrows the repetitive syntax of ancient poetry and cryptically personal references to mythologize his yawp, unaware that Voices of a Generation are seldom self-consciously so."Wild Orphan" is the best early poem.
Disclaimer: Do not read the edition of  Howl  illustrated by Eric Drooker. Drooker may have collaborated with Ginsberg on Illuminated Poems, but he's also responsible for the unspeakably bad animated sequences in the unwatchable Ginsberg biopic  Howl . (Notice the description advertises that  Howl  is "Now a Major Motion Picture", as if this is something to brag about.)In fact, the illustrations from this edition of  Howl  look like screenshots from film. Read this edition instead. Or this editi

