https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125562.Let_s_Get_Invisible_
Max discovers a magic mirror that can make him invisible, but the longer he stays invisible, the harder it is to come back.
And we never would have discovered the exciting - and frightening - secret behind that wooden door.The magic mirror works in tandem with a lamp hanging from the ceiling.
It's undeniable that the rules of the mirror and the lamp are a bit fuzzy - this book is not without loopholes.
Let's Get Invisible has a fair amount of repetition and can be summarized as follows: A couple kids stand in a room and yank on a lamp chain.
#6 "Now you see him. Now you don't"When Max and his friends find a strange antique mirror in the attic everything seems fun and games. But there's more to this mirror than meets the eye. It turns whoever stands in front of it invisible! Can Max figure out the mystery of the mirror before he disappears forever?
Perhaps the mirror is more dangerous than they thought?I really enjoyed this book, mainly because Stine indulges in a rare bit of characterization.
Usually I find it hard to string together even two adjectives to describe a Stine character, and here I am with a whole bevy of them for Max.The horror is also good and well-developed.
Max gives in to his friends pleas for the mirror again and again and again, even though he knows better and actually stays up for hours at night worrying about it.
Given the bizarre and sometimes lame explanations Stine usually comes up with, I'm actually grateful for this - in any other author's book it would annoy me.
Ahhh, the Goosebump days. I would borrow so many of these from the library they seriously considered extending my limit of books checked out at one time. R.L. Stine you were a reprieve from a harsh and dreary childhood in which my mind wandered far away from the troubles of the day. I stole books into my bed and read far into the night by the faintest of lights. I might have better eyesight were it not for you; however, I regret not one page or line.

Από τα πλέον αγαπημένα μου βιβλία της σειράς αυτής, αφού με πολλή τέχνη και μαεστρία παίζει με το υποσυνείδητό μας, αλλά και με τους μεγαλύτερους εσωτερικούς μας φόβους. Μια ιστορία που πίσω από την spooky, τρομακτική της εικόνα, κρύβει κι ένα μεγάλο μήνυμα. Πως καμιά φορά, τα παιχνίδια, ίσως να μην είναι τόσο αθώα όσο νομίζουμε, και πως μπορούν να μας οδηγήσουν σε ακραίες κι επικίνδυνες καταστάσεις και σε αδιέξοδα χωρίς επιστροφή.
to
When he comes back down, Max and his mother notice he is acting a little strange and there is something not quite right about him.Max tells Lefty that he has decided getting invisible is too dangerous and calls his friends to cancel the invisibility championship.
Max tries to say something, but Erin and Zack push him under the light of the mirror and turn it on.
Just when all hope is lost, Lefty appears in the attic, sees the reflection of the invisible Max in the mirror, and tosses him the ball.
First of all, Im sorry if I made some grammar mistakes on this review >.<.Ive been reading since I can remember, but the first time I realized my love for books was undoubtedly, reading the goosebumps series. I was obsessed with this books in my childhood. I read everything I could of it. Ive decided to re-read this series in english after so many years, because Im currently learnig this language and I need some light books to improve it and get some vocabulary. So... What is better that r
First of all, I´m sorry if I made some grammar mistakes on this review >.<.I´ve been reading since I can remember, but the first time I realized my love for books was undoubtedly, reading the goosebumps series.
I´ve decided to re-read this series in english after so many years, because I´m currently learnig this language and I need some light books to improve it and get some vocabulary.
The thinks become spooky!It´s a good book of the series, just as I remembered.
The end.Actually, we get many many more pages of the kids returning to the attic to screw with the invisible mirror.
Anyway, Max gets pissed and Lefty says he won't use the mirror anymore.In our thrilling conclusion, Erin and Zack get invisible for a long ass time, and when they come back they look different.
Then Max goes again, and after being invisible for the longest time yet, gets sucked into the mirror where he's confronted with his evil reflection.
It's revealed that Erin and Zack are actually evil reflections, and they try to force Max back into the mirror to switch places again.
Ugh, stupid children.Why were the characters all stupid?
I thought April was the reasonable one, and yet she succumbed to her friends' pressure on her and eventually agreed to try out the mirror.
When I was her age, when I say I don't like to do something, I really won't do it.
And the main character, Max, oh my God. Why is he even friends with his friends?
It's like his fucking house and he can't even control his friends and impose his rules on them.
This book could have scared me.
Actually, it should have scared me because I have always been afraid of reflections.
This was one that I remember liking as a kid. Still like it. It's a fun one! An early one, so it's actually not terribly written, either.
4 out of 5... this one was fun! full review to come
Genauso gut, wie es als Kindheitserinnerung im Gedächtnis gespeichert war.Schöne locker, leichte Gruselgeschichte aus dem Hause Stine. Konnte mich noch ein wenig an die Geschichte erinnern, da ich einige der Bücher schon als Kind gelesen hatte, unter anderem auch diesen Band. Trotzallem war es nicht langweilig, da ich mich nicht mehr zu 100% dran erinnern konnte.Klar die Geschichte ist ab einem gewissen Punkt vorhersehbar, aber trotz allem spannend.Wer Stine oder kleine Horrorgeschichten mag, kommt auf seine Kosten.
In case you are wondering how I read the first 5 Goosebumps books in one week yet took 2 weeks to read this one...well I wasn't interested.
It just didn't interest me, but once I opened it I got through it rather quickly.I forgot that Goosebumps are horror books.
Going invisible isn't really at all interesting to read, but add a "horror" story to it and it gets interesting.
Looking at how the book ended it wouldn't make any sense for there to be a sequel, definitely confusing.
Kids will do alot of things invisible and juggling tomatoes isn't one of them!
Knowing that I like reading Y.A. books, a friend of mine recommended this oneMax was planning to enjoy his birthday with his friends. But it was a rainy day and they had to stay home.Neither Max nor his parents knew there was a secret room in their dusty attic. And of course they didn't know about the secret mirror in there!!The story is really simple and can be told in 60 pages instead of the whole 160!!Many pages were wasted on getting visible and invisible and so onIt was ok
it got pretty interesting in the end
The book Goosebumps: Let’s Get Invisible takes place in an older looking house but mostly take place in and hot and musty room in the attic. The main character is a boy named Max. Some of the other characters like his brother Lefty the hard headed one and Max’s best friends Zach the daredevil ,April the nice one, and Erin the quiet one. One big problem in the story is that every time each one of them becomes invisible they start to feel weird and become different.  Each and every time Max starts
The main character is a boy named Max. Some of the other characters like his brother Lefty the hard headed one and Max’s best friends Zach the daredevil ,April the nice one, and Erin the quiet one.
Each and every time Max starts to notice that when they come back they all look very different.
I really like this book because I love Goosebumps book.
I would recommend this book to a student who likes short reads and spooky books.
I suggest anyone who likes a book that leaves you off the edge of your seat read this book.
Have you ever wished you were invisible? Well, for Max, this becomes a reality. It was just his exiting normal 12th birthday when...Woosh! He’s stuck in a mirror! “Let’s Get Invisible”, from the series “Goosebumps”, is written by R.L. Stine. This book is a sort of thriller like all the goosebumps books. I love how realistic the protagonist reacts to him becoming invisible. The story has a creative set of characters too! But although it is a fictional book, it has a pretty real background, like
Have you ever wished you were invisible?
I love how realistic the protagonist reacts to him becoming invisible.
The story has a creative set of characters too!
But although it is a fictional book, it has a pretty real background, like how they have a creepy old attic, or the curiosity of Max as a kid., or even how he invited his friends/sibling top see the crazy mirror.
He and his friends might have experienced being invisible, but that doesn’t mean it was for the better.
I recommend this hit story to 8 to 11 year old kids who enjoy a good scare.
My first Goosebumps book!
I remember them being a thing when I was at school and always seeing them in the library, but (a) I wasn't interested and (b) I'm a big wimp who doesn't like scary.(Confession: I am admittedly still a wimp, but now I'm a grown up wimp who can enjoy a book like this!
:P) It was maybe a little repetitive (I'd have given it a 4.5 if GR did that), but it is a kids' book...
and I can see why that was the perfect structure.
Definitely kept the pages turning all the way to the great ending!
I enjoyed the way this one ended. Not every story is going to end happily and that's why I enjoyed this one.
Uhm?! WTF. NO SENSE.
"La buhardilla era alargada y estaba llena de muebles viejos, cartones, vestidos raídos por el tiempo, cañas de pescar, pilas de revistas amarillentas y toda clase de trastos. —Huele todo a viejo —dijo Erin, pasando delante de mí y dando unos pasos por el gran espacio. Tomó una bocanada de aire—. ¡Me encanta ese olor! —Mira que eres rara —le dije."
The kids started getting on my nerves, April having no conviction, Max kept giving into peer pressure, the parenting again was awful and the ending didn't make much sense.
The concept of the mirror was cool and the idea of the reflections taking over was a neat twist but it wasn't enough to keep me wanting more.
I mean they destroyed the mirror, what's the point in putting boxes in front of the door at this point?
If anything finish destroying the mirror, right down to the frame and toss it away!

The suspense was pretty good throughout, and some parts were kind of freaky, especially when characters kept disappearing and not coming back.
The concept of “bad people living in mirrors” is nothing new, but at least this was built up pretty well.
Still, I thought the main character was so STUPID, even for a kid.
He kind of lets the bad guys do whatever they want to him without putting up much of a fight.
I liked the climax generally, but I saw the twist ending coming a mile away, and was actually surprised when it didn’t pop up before then.
These books are a mixture of varying degrees of terrible and amazing - at the same time.
11 year-old me would probably have given all of them 5 stars, but alas, I'm no longer 11 years old.
In acknowledgement of my young self and the wonderful kitschiness of the series, I've decided on 4 stars.
Also, they vary a lot in quality, but seeing as it's been so long since I've read them, I don't remember which ones were best.
4 stars it is.
(By the way, this was the very first Goosebumps novel I read, and I still remember the ending giving me chills)
It’s a similar confusion found when watching most time travel stories (not that this one is a time travel story).The ending is up to interpretation (Like a lot of Goosebump books are) and since a sequel was never written, it will stay that way.Other than the fact that they never ask the parents about the mirror (why?
I’ll never know), or the fact that the whole book is nothing but kids playing “chicken” with a mirror, the book read alright and the characters were believable.Not much to say on this one.3 out of 5.
Reader beware you're in for a scare!I'm gonna read like it's 1994!
I only stopped when the 'Goosebumps 2000' series came out but I'm not sure if that's because they were rubbish or I was just getting older and had started to lose interest.
I don't think I read this the first time round, nothing about seems familial.
The kids started getting on my nerves.
And the ending didn't make much sense.
While I applaud Stine for not always having a happy ending, why didn't Lefty's reflection go back in the mirror when it was broken?
He has a very mean little brother.
I can relate because I too have a little mean sister.
They all realize it was just the little brother.
I can relate because one time I was walking up stairs and my little sister jumps out at me and scares me so bad that you could hear my scream from all the way downstairs.
In the book the main character is also mean.
So I think the theme of half this book is be careful what you say because they could come back at you.
I think this book is really good so far.
