https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110090.True_History_of_the_Kelly_Gang
The technique is mostly a kind of enjambed, run-on sentence style with colorful Australian argot.
My heart pounds and a sympathetic vengeance fills me as I read Ned Kelly's account of the injustices done to him and his family by an out of control police force.
One comes to the book with this expectation that it is about this out of control killer and his adherents.
But halfway through it dawns on you that Ned Kelly as depicted here is a moral hero.
Please look to the many other reviews here for a run-down of the plot points.
lmao i definitely didn't read the last 100 pages of this
Well here I am being a bad person again, I try to be good and I really do like to like things but you all are probably by now getting the strong idea that really I like to dislike things, such as Booker Prize winners and movies with Scarlet Johanssssssen in them.
But fatally for me, this whole cool-Ned thing became cute.
The overall effect of this is to present us with a far more sympathetic view of Kelly than is, I understand, usual.Interviewed not long after the book’s publication (2001), Carey was asked about his motivation for writing the book.
This book, with its mixture of fact and fiction, is a very engaging book to read and I thoroughly enjoyed it, but it probably should not be the only book a person reads about Kelly if that person wants to know the truth.
If, like me, you don't know anything about Ned Kelly when you start this book, don't be scared off by the first two pages with the killer robot.
Really, between the cover design, the killer robot, and the difficult style, I thought I was going to hate this book.
It was this paragraph that really did it for me:We thought you doomed and rooned the minute you walked out past the chook house and Wild delivered that great sidearm to your head and you was on the floor before you even stepped up to the scratch.
I loved Peter Carey's Oscar and Lucinda; wasn't quite so keen on Jack Maggs; this is my favourite to date.
Ned Kelly is Australia's version of Jesse James or Billy the Kid. A loveable outlaw fighting against institutional injustice and to feed his family.
He tells his story in the first person with wonderful inventive language.
He perhaps stretches the truth to flatter his role in it but all of us do this when we tell our own stories and eventually he completely won me over and I was rooting for him.
A wonderful combination for me.
Description: In True History of the Kelly Gang," " the legendary Ned Kelly speaks for himself, scribbling his narrative on errant scraps of paper in semiliterate but magically descriptive prose as he flees from the police.
Indentured by his bootlegger mother to a famous horse thief (who was also her lover), Ned saw his first prison cell at 15 and by the age of 26 had become the most wanted man in the wild colony of Victoria, taking over whole towns and defying the law until he was finally captured and hanged.
This historical novel set in Australia won the Man Booker Prize in 2001 and truly is a great read despite a slow start.
Ned Kelly was indeed a real Australian outlaw or bushranger in the local vernacular.
I think this novel is probably best if read without knowing the true story of Ned Kelly.
If you know the real story or head to Wikipedia first you are still left with the great writing but it may not measure up to its accolades.
Although I have a much greater level of empathy for Nat Turner’s plight, I would give the nod to The True History of the Kelly Gang as the better and more well researched novel.
This fascinating novel from Man Booker prize winner Peter Carey explores the story of the deadly Kelly Gang from the perspective of one of the Kellys.
The Kelly gang has an interesting role in Australian history as a band of renegades that were treated like shit by society and forced (or not depending on how you view it) to take to a life of brigandry to survive.
The book is exciting and very well-written (as well written as Oscar and Lucinda which I adored as well!)Highly recommended as a portrait of early 20th C badlands in Australia.
of age and know what it is to be raised on lies and silences my dear daughter you are presently too young to understand a word I write but this history is for you and will contain no single lie may I burn in Hell if I speak false.”This is the opening sentence of Kelly's narrative, and it marks the style in which his account will be written: the complete lack of punctuation resembling William Faulkner and Cormac McCarthy, making the writing flow like speech or thought from the author's head, straight the paper.
I fell in love with the voice of Ned Kelly.
I can't make judgement on Ned Kelly, but I loved the character as told over to us by Peter Carey.
This is the line where I realized that I loved this book, "He were as lazy as the dog that rests its head against the wall to bark but I didn't grudge him so at different times I fed him Murray cod or yabbies or a snake." Another quote I loved, "They arrived in broken cart & drays they was of that type THE BENALLA ENSIGN named the most frightful class of people they couldn't afford to leave their cows & pigs but they done so because we was them and they was us and we had showed the world what convict blood could do.
Peter Carey has reimagined the brief but eventful life of the notorious Australian outlaw, Ned Kelly, in a manner both cinematic and intimate. Using historical documents to challenge the commonly accepted legend - and deftly creating narrative to cover the many gaps of objective history - his story is vivid, touching, and plausible. This is literary historical fiction of the first order and I thoroughly enjoyed it.4.5 stars
Talk about total immersion!Reading this was like being dunked and held under in the inhospitable waters of hardtack bush life in the 19th century, and no, Carey is not letting you up for air!
The language and style -a torrential outpouring of unpunctuated vernacular- does take some getting used to, and can be potentially confusing at first (and even later)but I think it's part of what gives this novel such a strong faculty for transporting the reader to another time and place.
I first read Carey's Illywhacker, which I loved, back in the 80's; then on to The Unusual Life Of Tristan Smith, (an interesting but unsatisfying "weirdosity") as well as the fun but flawed Jack Maggs.
This is an 'adjectival' original piece of historical fiction. Carey did a fine job recreating Ned Kelly's voice. A piece of 19th century Australian history come to life through the masterly invented voice of Australia's most famous bushranger.
Written in the words of the infamous bushranger and outlaw Ned Kelly – Australia’s Jesse James/ Robin Hood – the True History of the Kelly Gang is a novel which accounts Kelly’s life from impoverished childhood to inevitable capture and execution. Kelly’s story centers on the unfairness and corruption of the nineteenth century Australian legal system, and the discriminations against the poor and the Irish (of which Kelly was both). Through it all, Ned Kelly’s motivations are for justice, family
Written in the words of the infamous bushranger and outlaw Ned Kelly – Australia’s Jesse James/ Robin Hood – the True History of the Kelly Gang is a novel which accounts Kelly’s life from impoverished childhood to inevitable capture and execution.
Kelly’s story centers on the unfairness and corruption of the nineteenth century Australian legal system, and the discriminations against the poor and the Irish (of which Kelly was both).
Through it all, Ned Kelly’s motivations are for justice, family, and a place of his own.
Don’t be daunted by Ned Kelly’s ‘poor’ grammar; it only enhances the authenticity.
Peter Carey is an adjectival genius. You coves, when you tell your history to your daughters, tell it true as Ned Kelly did. History has some rough spots. Mates and traitors. For me, the best parts of True History of the Kelly Gang, in no particular order, were: the complex relationship of Kelly and his Ma; the blossoming character of Mary Hearn; and the story of how Whitty got his land with the help of the Devil. There is, it turns out, only one wish the Devil can not grant.
His fractured, difficult and deprived upbringing along with the contempt of a society where he has no value seems to leave Kelly with little choice but to live outside the law.Not everyone faced with these circumstances would end up as a criminal of course, but Carey convincingly shows how Ned Kelly's life choices were pretty limited.
Redemption doesn't feel like an option.I am absolutely sure there are modern-day Ned's languishing in prisons and young offenders' institutions, and many will have similarly short and difficult lives.Kelly's story is a tragedy, but it says something about the failure of our society, that it has a timeless quality.True History of the Kelly Gang was a deserved Booker winner.
This 8,000 word, 56-page letter was dictated to fellow gang member Joe Byrne by Ned following the robbery of the Jerilderie bank in 1879.
Carey describes the letter as uneducated but intelligent, humorous but also angry and says that "His language came in a great, furious rush that could not but remind you of far more literary Irish writers."In this novel, Carey has recreated Ned's voice as he heard it in the letter and used it to tell the story of the Kelly Gang.
The book aint no adjectival ordinary good read it were an Australian bush tale about ole Ned Kelly a real life legendary criminal and hero and how he were forced to become a bushranger by the effing corrupt police and judges and them fellers what owned everything and bent the law to their favor.
It all a big cowboy adventure but if you are one to be turned off by over 300 pages of this sort of no comma bad grammar poor spellin narrative it better to get a real true history of real life Ned Kelly.
3.5 stars
Peter Carey dividiu a narrativa de "A Verdadeira História do Bando de Ned Kelly" em treze Volumes - sobre a vida do famoso "fora-de-lei" australiano Ned Kelly (1854 - 1880).
A escrita de “A Verdadeira História do Bando de Ned Kelly” é "estranha" e “original” - os documentos são autobiográficos - numa prosa semi-analfabeta, quase sem pontuação e sem preocupações gramaticais, recriando a “voz” de Ned Kelly, de uma forma directa, sincera, mas intensamente reflexiva.
I read this back when the Ned Kelly film was released because I got so hung up on this Aussie legend!
Finally I was able to experience this man's life (or a guesstimate of this man's life, which is why I shelved it as non-fiction as well as historical fiction) as it happened.
History is fantastic, and I've been to Glenrowan and seen artefacts that are proof of the legend, but this was beautifully told with a lot of heart and I was captivated by being a part of it.Highly recommend for those interested in the Ned Kelly myth, and a decent story for those less familiar.
In fact, I'd even encourage non-Australians to give it a go and learn a bit more about this Australian icon.
The facts that Edward Kelly was a recorded Irish Bushranger in Australia and has made an attempt to tell his side of the story during one of his hold-ups are the only two connecting points for this big a yarn.Peter Carey's tone sounds like a wild western novel with horses being broken, trappers flaunting guns and men felling trees to vent out anger.
Ned Kelly's familial ties and the way in which he easily believes anyone (that leads to betrayals) is counter intuitive to the image of an outlaw.
A fictionalized account of the life of Australian outlaw, Ned Kelly. He's most famous for donning an armored suit and taking the fight to the British.Entertaining, but the faux Dickensian style of writing is occasionally clunky.
Finished: 10 November 2017Title: True History of the Kelly GangGenre: novel (historical)Score: CReview: The story is one long letter to Ned Kelly's unborn daughter.
Ned tells his story in his own distinctive style.
There is little in the way of punctuation or grammar: “I said I were”… “effing, eff,"Weak point: It took time to get used to reading this!
He fictionalizes the legendary, traditional story that concerns…the infamous bushranger Ned Kelly.
Conclusion: A fun read for anyone who enjoys a lovable outlaw,…..or wants to learn more about Australia’s “Robin Hood.”#AusReadingMonth
Before reading this I confess I knew very little about Ned Kelly. This novel is written with passion and compassion. The language at first was tricky but once I got into the flow and rhythm of Ned's voice it became easier. There are moments of pathos and humour. And it made me do a little research into the historical background of Ned Kelly and the time. All in all, it was a good read.
This was a wonderful character- and voice-driven fictionalization of the Australian outlaw legend (and historical crush of many) Ned Kelly.
I liked how the author imagined Ned Kelly's nature and motivations, drawing from the little that is known about him, and fills in the historical gaps between flashy bank robberies and various arrests.
I especially admired how he captures Kelly's voice, a "clever ignoramus" (or so the papers reported) with a flash of angry, yet noble words that match the rest of him.
This is written as an memoir (difference between an autobiography & a memoir; memoirs don't have indexes) Ned Kelly is setting down for an infant daughter he will never see.
Kind of poignant actually.
Carey wrote this in a nineteenth century Australian vernacular.
Kind of like Trainspotting.
Normally I'd find it annoying and pretentious, but Carey makes it work.
That alone probably merits his Booker.
The story by itself is amazing.
Even in his own words Kelly clearly is no hero.
Just a guy who wants the rich off his back and the government to step off his neck.
Ned Kelly was executed in Melbourne jail on 11 November 1880. His last words are supposed to have been ‘Ah well, I suppose it has come to this.’ Carey’s novel reclaims Kelly from myth to reconstruct him as a man by telling the story of his brief life in the outlaw’s own voice. Thanks to Carey's extraordinary skill, the emotional power of this individual's story is made real, which made the book even more enjoyable.
I 'effing' love Peter Carey's prose. An 'adjectival' masterpiece of historical fiction and myth-making.
