https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1417416.Dynasty_of_Death
“Dynasty of Death” centers around two families whose small munitions factory evolved into a powerful multi-national empire—a sweeping saga stretching from the 1830s to the eve of World War I.
The story covers the years from 1837 to the eve of World War I, telling about the Bouchard and Barbour families, who grow their small munitions factory into a great international corporation.
The Saturday Review noted, “The armaments industry is a subject which fiction does well to take up; and Mr. Caldwell’s attack is handled with the patience and skill of a prosecuting attorney.” Caldwell's gift for story-telling and swift-moving prose makes this a delightful read for those who enjoy epic family sagas.
The late author Taylor Caldwell's writing style can best be described as overwrought.
Now that her work's been issued in ebook, I've gone back to some of her oldie-but-goodies; "The Dynasty of Death" trilogy ranks at the top as typical Caldwell books.
When I finish the other two books, I'll review them."Dynasty of Death" was Taylor Caldwell's first novel, originally published in 1938.
The main character of "Dynasty of Death" is Ernest Barbour, who burned with ambition and he ends the book owning millions (today it would be billions) in property and patents.
Great ReadAs expected, Taylor Caldwell didn't disappoint me once more. She always makes the characters come to life, and describes their thoughts and desires, good or bad. Sometimes Jules got long winded, but I still can't skip over anything said. I love generation novels, and she is one of the best. Barb Heskett 7/04/2017
A journey, a destination and moreThe scope of this novel will astonish and astound. Ms Caldwell is a class act with writing and characters endowed with all the attributes that make us human. Get ready for a rollercoaster ride.
Lots of despicable characters and their many exploits over the years. Sometimes a little slow, sometimes melodramatic, but for an 80 year old novel, a good read.
All of Taylor Caldwell's books are great!
Made myself finish this one. Over 700 pages long. I don't think I found any of the characters "likeable". Yet they were interesting. I found myself thinking about them. NOT on the read-again list.
This was the first novel published in Taylor Caldwell's long and prolific career, an expansive saga that pretty much set the template for many of her subsequent novels: Power, Passion, and Money. It makes a fitting bookend with her last great saga, CAPTAINS AND THE KINGS, published 34 years later in 1972.
An apt title where the greed of a family member ripples into causing tragedy in others. Taylor Caldwell intertwines profound philosophy while providing an epic generational story spreading from pre Civil War to the Spanish-American War. Centered around gun and ammunition manufacturing, Ernest Barbour learns that he can build an empire and fortune but for what price? Readers find out.
This is a story of two brothers. One brother's dream and ambtion in live was money. His other brother, Martin saw how money runined his brother's life. He declines the fortune that is his until he see the good that money can do. Martin gives the rest of his life to others and then looses it. He did the same as his brother. He lost focus on balance in life.
This author not only predicts WWII, she explains the underlining causes in this book that was published in 1938. It is a series and has my highest recommendations. Read about the Barbours and the Bouchards but think about the DuPonts of Delaware.
The story of two immigrant families that build an empire on munitions. Taylor Caldwell has no equal when it comes to descriptions but will admit it took me a bit to get everyone straight after they all got married and started families. This is a three book series so on to the next generation.
A great fictional account of how today's military industrial complex got started.
