https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36638.The_Wolves_of_Willoughby_Chase
Meanwhile, menacing wolves circle and a strange man joins in Miss Slighcarp’s machinations.
Aiken evokes a marvelous sense of atmosphere, a sensation that’s heightened by the contrast between the outside world and the inside of Bonnie’s home: Willoughby Chase.
However, The Wolves of Willoughby Chase is the first in a series of thirteen books, so perhaps their presence grows more prevalent over time.
With such standard characters, the story inevitably arrives at a predictable conclusion.The Wolves of Willoughby Chase is a quick, enjoyable little read, but it’s nothing to write home about.
The Wolves of Willoughby Chase is best read when young, or by those with the ability to tap into their inner girl.I enjoyed the evil impostors who gleefully inflict child abuse.
'Wolves' is best read by kids who love to feel a bit of self-pity and delicious horror.Bonnie is a bit of a simpering thing and there are lots of mentions of dresses and lace.
I liked her a lot when she was knocked down some pegs.Wait, I don't know what my inner girl is.
I'm weird or something because I actually found this more cozy than that.The Dido Twite books in the series are pure awesomeness and way, way better than 'Wolves'.
Those of us who grew up with an affinity for Victorian books, it might have started here, in Joan Aiken's 1962 classic Gothic / Dickensian love note, with its pitch perfect wicked governesses and wretched orphanages and aptronyms and moors and girls who are described as "hoydens," and secret passages, and real dungeons, and all these wolves.
It's set in an alternate history of England, where wolves are rampant and something about a King James III, who cares, how am I supposed to know whether a given King James is fictional or not, you can tell it's not the real world because this is a place where geese can be trusted.
This post is part of the 2015 Classics Challenge.WHEN I Discovered This ClassicI actually don't think I had heard of The Wolves of Willoughby Chase until I discovered the Vintage Children's Classics, my favourite series of children's classics – I just love the design and the selection of well-known and lesser-known classics!
I really hope it goes ahead!WHAT Makes It A ClassicIt's a classic children's adventure story, full of beautiful descriptions of the landscape, treacherous characters and a thrilling mystery to solve.
And once you've done that, there's 11 more books in the series for you to read.WHO I’d Recommend It ToPeople who love children's books and want to delve into the world of classics.

The Wolves of Willoughby Chase is a lovely little children’s book with secret passages, an evil governess and a goose boy.
I definitely recommend it to little girls who have a mind for adventure.
It was fun though.
There’s not a patronizing message (which most children's stories have today) just a melodrama, and the villains are so obvious, I almost felt like I should boo and hiss when they popped up in the story.
Aiken has a lovely way with words and description that made me feel like I had slipped into a fairytale.
Thank you Jeanette and Diane Lynn for the fun quick buddy read.
There were hundreds of them at work, wrapped in sacking because of the bitter cold, and keeping together in groups for fear of the wolves, made savage and reckless from hunger..." I dare you not to go on reading after that.
I read this book over and over as a kid, but it's equally entertaining for adults - it's the book Dickens might have written if he wrote for young people, an atmospheric semi-Gothic that follows the adventures of two young girls, spunky intrepid Bonnie and her fragile cousin Sylvia, when Bonnie's parents go abroad and leave them with the malign governess Miss Slighcarp, who is definitely up to no good.
The author has such a strange lexicon, and writes in purple prose, which is actually what makes the book fun.
Nothing more.But bon-bons can be fun.
Any books for children that feature a mixture of Georgian/Victorian society, a dash of wolves, loads of adventure, and little girls learning to stand on their own two solid feet has my love.
I do wish I'd read this book as a young girl because I could have learned and gained a great deal from Bonnie even if I was more like shy, sensitive Sylvia at first.
This book is recommended to young girls (and boys) and any adult that still enjoys that bit of whimsy and wonder in their reading.
I would think this would be a great read-aloud and share book.ps.
In this tome, cousins Sylvia (poor meek city mouse) and Bonnie (rich haughty country mouse) reunite and band together against wolves and vile spinster governesses (or as one servant says: HARRIDANS!)while their guardians are on sea voyage.
When Bonnie has the opportunity to trade her suit for a gown, she remarks that she's "grown accustomed to boy's clothes." Each character comes away less moored to convention.This reminded me a lot of Angela Carter's The Magic Toyshop, a decidedly darker, more racy contemporary take on Victorian girlhood and what it means to be an orphan.Let's watch the movie!
The story takes place in a 1832 that didn’t exist, when a Channel Tunnel connecting Dover to Calais entices many wolves to move into Britain.A poor, young girl, Sylvia, is brought to live with her rich relatives, and immediately things go wrong.
The governess hired to teach Bonnie and Sylvia decides to take advantage of her employers’ absence, and takes over the place, sacks the servants and generally is a totally horrid woman.
The story concerns how the girls manage to deal with the situation while learning a bunch of valuable skills and making friends with others.
I am not one to read juvenile novels and have never understood the current enthusiasm for them among adult readers. But I read a book of Aiken's short stories and was curious about this classic series.Her writing is impeccable, but the strangeness of the opening section gives way to a story best enjoyed by ten-year-old girls.
I approached this book with a little apprehension as I have had past experience of re-reading old childhood favourites and feeling letdown, but there was no problem with this novel, set in an alternative 1832 where the monarch is James III (implying that the House of Hanover never came to the throne) and wolves have entered England during a bad winter by crossing the Channel Tunnel (not opened in our reality until 1994).Unlike the children's books of today - this was first published in the early 1960s - the whole thing proceeds at a riproaring pace with very little build-up.
Buddy read with Jeannette and WillowOpening lines:It was dusk-winter dusk. Snow lay white and shining over the pleated hills, and icicles hung from the forest trees.I was hooked from the start. Two young girls go on quite an adventure when their situation goes from bad to worse. The girls are very resourceful and brave. They are helped by some very nice people, but then there are all those villains! Will the girls ever be able to escape the many wolves of Willoughby Chase?I thought this was a very good start to a series of books for children, and adults too.
This book has it all – kidnapping, secret passages, shipwrecks, orphans, violent death, fraud, a stolen inheritance, and best of all – wolves!
An exciting and entertaining read on its own, it also introduces the character of Simon the goose-boy, who will play such a large part in the books to come...While the cover illustrations by Edward Gorey are justly beloved, this book would not be the same without Pat Marriott's interior illustrations.Addendum: Because the reading order of this series is somewhat complicated, I have included this handy guide, which is organized by publication date, and which I recommend to prospective readers of the series, rather than the one offered here on Goodreads:Reading Order for the Series:1) The Wolves of Willoughby Chase2) Black Hearts in Battersea3) Nightbirds on Nantucket4) The Whispering Mountain5) The Cuckoo Tree6) The Stolen Lake7) Dido and Pa8) Is Underground9) Cold Shoulder Road10) Dangerous Games11) Midwinter Nightingale12) The Witch of ClatteringshawsA few notes:--
After a promising (but strangely familiar) start, this turned into a caricature, with over-the-top evil villains and a saccharine happy ending in which everything was tied up neatly in a bow.I read in the "Backstory" that Aiken had originally written it as a one-off spoof of the Victorian gothic adventure stories she had read as a child. As far as I'm concerned, it didn't work. The parody will fly over children's heads and the story is way too simplistic and sugary sweet for adults.In my opinion, the best part of the book is the cover illustration, by Rohan Eason.
Children's fiction with a Victorian London setting. The story uses elements of classic Victorian fiction. The influence of Charles Dickens, Sheridan leFanu, Wilkie Collins, and the Sensation novelists of that time can be seen here. Lots of action and adventure, featuring two brave little girls who save the day. A fun read for all ages.
Reminiscent of The Secret Garden, though the dangers are a bit more menacing and the adventure is more wide- ranging. Well done!
There are eleven of them in all (and won't be any more, since Aiken sadly died in January 2004), and I think of them in sets of two or three.The Wolves of Willoughby Chase and Black Hearts in Battersea introduce many of the main characters in the series, chiefly Simon, an orphan, and Dido Twite, a London guttersnipe, as well as Dido's family, inveterate Hanoverian plotters, especially her Pa, a musical but amoral genius.
I do have an odd fondness for The Stolen Lake, which has Dido encountering ancient Britons in South America and an interesting Arthurian plot, but by Dido and Pa, I am generally happy to get back to England and Aiken's exploration of Dido's relationship with her family.
There’s one bit on the train which really makes me think J.K. Rowling had been inspired by these books too, though turns out the mysterious man isn’t quite as nice as Professor Lupin.It’s set in an alternate version in 1830’s England, where the channel tunnel was built much earlier and meant Britain became overrun with wolves.
These wolves don’t keep to themselves either, and it’s bad news to be out in the countryside after dark.Bonnie’s mother is sickly and her father, Sir Willoughby, is taking her off on a cruise for health, leaving Bonnie and her cousin Sylvia in the care of their sinister new governess, Miss Slighcarp.
THE SUNDAY FAMILY READI have read 10 novels by Joan Aiken.
I love both her adult stories and the ones for children.
She portrays children in wondrous ways, similar to Elizabeth Goudge but with magic and supernatural elements instead of religious ones.The Wolves of Willoughby Chase is the first in her 11 book series The Wolves Chronicles.
It makes me happy that I still have dozens of her books left to read, including retellings of all six Jane Austen novels.The Wolves Chronicles series would make a great holiday gift for enthusiastic female young readers.
If a voracious young reader (Grades 4-6) requested a funny, gothic adventure and didn't mind that it was published 1963, I would recommend Joan Aiken's The Wolves of Willoughby Chase.
Sylvia, a very well brought up young lady, travels through an alternate Victorian England, on way to a new home with her wealthy cousin, Bonnie Green of Willoughby Chase.
The girls learn that Miss Slighcarp is responsible for the wreck of Bonnie's parents' ship.
I have loved this book ever since I first read it as a child and have recommended it to many young readers.
The start of a great series.So I've picked this for my staff pick on heroes and I want to say that as far as heroes go "It takes a Village" because our two girls--Bonnie & Sylvia--get help in getting away from the baddies in the story (and there are lots of baddies) from all sides.
Watching her grow and learning to care for others, even when her life is filled with tragedy is very heartwarming.
Sometimes in life ****** ya gotta bite the bullet!
Girl power! The adventurous tale of two courageous girls, cousins, contending with a wicked governess. Their home is Willoughby Chase, a stately mansion with a big estate infested by hungry wolves. There are secret passages and spyholes perfect for overhearing people’s conversations! Alas, poor Bonny and Sylvia will be evicted and sent into a dreadful school. It’s a lovely imaginary tale, the truth is stretched a few times (view spoiler)[ hard to believe that a doctor’s prescription to a starving person is champagne! LOL (hide spoiler)] nonetheless it is an enjoyable children read. 3.5 stars
Bonnie and Sylvia -- two little girls on a roller-coaster into the unknown!This is one of those magical books that seems to be written for children, but is equally captivating for adults. There's just something about the dream-like setting, the dark, ironic humor, the warmly romantic friendship of the two girls, that makes you feel this is really a dream you're having as an adult of what childhood could have been like, scary and beautiful and fascinating, instead of being like most childhoods, scary and humiliating and dull.
3.5, I think - only because I thought I remembered loving this as a child (and I may well have) but after re-reading I still didn't recall a thing from the actual story - I think the Dido books later in the series were the ones that really captured my love. Actually I'm not even sure if I ever did read this! Still a really great childrens' story, I just personally did not adore it as much as I expected... Can't wait to find the Dido ones again!
I expected Julie of the Wolvesbut instead found a delightfully odd and, like a dear friend pointed out, difficult to pinpoint in time story of dreadful governesses, helpful goose boys, dastardly plans, and escape from being banished to the workhouse. All in all a good read.
I grew up reading Joan Aiken. I discovered the Wolves Chronicles at my local library when I was about 8 or 9 and, though the series itself was already over 30 years old, I instantly fell in love with Aiken's cast of quirky characters and her wildly imaginative style. These books will be a part of me all my life, and I plan on reading them over and over.
1st in the series.
