https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/854945.The_Legion_of_Space
Before all is said and done, Williamson has dished out several space battles, a nebula storm, a raid on Pluto's moon, and a transcontinental slog across the Medusan homeworld, fighting various alien flora and fauna (including a giant amoeba!), not to mention the elements themselves, the entire way, all culminating in a suicidal incursion into the Medusans' miles-high city.
"The single most popular science fiction novel serialized during the '30s," sci-fi great Alexei Panshin has written of it, and is it any wonder?"The Legion of Space" is not for everyone, however, and does admittedly come with its share of problems.
Zowie!When the the last time you finished reading a book and said, "Zowie!"?I might have said it when I finished Jack Williamson's The Legion of Space had I been twelve years old and read it in 1934, the year it was first serialized in Astounding Stories.
who is held captive by the grotesque Medusae, gigantic floating things from beyond our universe who fortunately, for mankind's sake, want the secret of Aladoree's weapon badly enough themselves that they don't just kill her and get it over with.Williamson wrote this when he was twenty five years old, and he published his last Legion novel in 1982.
Yes, this book is indeed a blast.
pulp stories from before the "Golden Age" (according to Isaac Asimov that would be the 1940's) that appeared in Astounding Magazine in 1934.
And this book is no different.
The villains are the evil Medusae from the black planet of Bernard's Star, a solar system so remote and deadly that the few survivors who've returned from it are reduced to mutated gibbering lunatics!
Also, our heroes have to contend with traitors among the legion who've joined forces with the Medusae in order to reclaim our solar system as their own...whew!
This is a classic Science Fiction adventure story, the 1st novel by the Dean of Sci-Fi. Great fun for those who can place a work in its historical context.
Aladoree Anthar is kidnapped and it is up to John and his trio of companions to travel to the world of the Medusae, rescue Aladoree Anthar and stop the great tentacled beasties in their secret plan to invade and conquer Earth.It’s a simple but effective tale which suffers from rather obvious errors such as humans being able to live and breathe in the open atop a three thousand foot building on the Martian moon, Phobos, or indeed on Pluto’s moon, Cerberus.One also wonders why Williamson’s Falstaffian character Giles Habibula is never told to shut up, since his rambling oratories and complaints appear with depressing regularity from his first introduction.'Poor Giles Habibula, aged and crippled in the loyal service of the Legion, now without a place on any planet to rest his mortal head.
John Delmar, anciano con dilatada experiencia militar a sus espaldas en diferentes escenarios bélicos de finales del siglo XIX y comienzos del XX, dice saber la fecha y hora de su muerte y dice haber visto el futuro.
Cuando muerte el día y a la hora que había predicho, su médico decide no destruir sus manuscritos y en cambio ponerlos a disposición de los lectores, manuscritos que cuentan las aventuras de John Ulmar, más conocido como John Star, pariente lejano de Delmar y valiente miembro de la Legión del Espacio en el siglo XXX.
Primer libro de la saga La legión del espacio.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
He is immediately assigned by the commander of the Legion of Space to Eric Ulnar, John's distant cousin, hero who traveled to Barnard's Star and back, one of the few survivors of that ill-fated expedition.
Upshot is that she is taken by the Medusans to Barnard's Star, John is left behind to free Jay Halam, Hal Samdu, and Giles Habibula, the only survivors who had once guarded Aladoree, and together the swashbuckling quartet - think the Four Musketeers in Space - work their way to Barnard's Star, and effect a rescue (and escape) of Aladoree with the impossible odds stacked two miles high against them.
Una space ópera maja, aventuras espaciales pulp que pudieran estar inspiradas en Los tres mosqueteros y ser inspiración para el universo Star Wars. Una novela algo naíf, que en su momento fue editada de forma episódica en la revista Astounding Stories, pero en eso radica precisamente su encanto. Se lee con rapidez y agrado. Solo para fans del género.
3,5/5Πρόκειται για ωραία ιστορία. Δεν μιλάμε για κάτι το απίστευτα ιδιαίτερο, αλλά υπάρχει αρκετή δράση, οι χαρακτήρες είναι συμπαθητικοί και το τέλος δεν σου αφήνει κάποιο κενό. Θα ήταν ωραίο να μαθαίναμε πως λειτουργεί το όπλο ΑΚΚΑ, αλλά ο συγγραφέας κρύβει επιδέξια με την ιστορία του τις ιδιότητές του.
Lots of fun, harrowing horror-ish sci fi at times though definitely pulpy. Shrewd and knavish Giles B was annoying though.
Classic sci-fi, the swashbuckling adventure kind. Lots of suspension of disbelief, but plenty of fantastic settings and a bit of intrigue.
Old time space opera science fiction. As a small group of legionnaires saves the world and in fact saves humanity from the aliens
Definitely showing it's age, but not bad.
Even the protagonist's other distant relative, the one who arranged for the square-jawed fellow to serve under the baddie, is precisely what he seems, right down to the redeeming qualities that were obvious even when he seemed a traitor to all that was good and right.Such carping out of the way, however, The Legion of Space is at least a decent book, so long as the reader understands that it comes from an era almost 80 years removed, from the heyday of pulp fiction.
"Η λεγεώνα του διαστήματος", εκδόσεις Λυχνάρι.Γραμμένο το 1934, αυτό το Space Opera μυθιστόρημα επιστημονικής φαντασίας δείχνει αρκετά τα χρονάκια του και μπορεί να θεωρηθεί παλιομοδίτικο ή "χαζό" και μπορεί τα διάφορα επιστημονικά στοιχεία (αποστάσεις μεταξύ πλανητών, διάφορα μεγέθη) να μην στέκουν, αλλά σίγουρα πρόκειται για ένα κλασικό περιπετειώδες παλπ μυθιστόρημα που προσφέρει διασκέδαση και ξεκούραση στο μυαλό.
Η γραφή δεν μπορώ να πω ότι ήταν άσχημη, απλώς έδειχνε τα χρονάκια της και αυτή, κάποιες εκφράσεις ήταν αρκετά παλιομοδίτικες, και επίσης οι χαρακτήρες είχαν κάποια προβλήματα.
Και κάποια πράγματα μέσα στη πλοκή ήρθαν λίγο εύκολα, λίγο βολικά στους πρωταγωνιστές, αλλά εντάξει, τι να κάνουμε, γίνονται αυτά, και στις καλύτερες οικογένειες...
This is such a great, old school romp through space.
Calm, tactically minded Jay Kalam, and wine / gourmet food loving Giles Habibula completely had me captivated.
Whilst the character of John Star himself is a little lacking, I can forgive this, as it allows for the immersion of yourself into the character and, therefore, the story.
My only criticism would be the ending which, no spoilers, was a little underwhelming, in my opinion.
I'd love to read the rest in the series now and that is my greatest form of compliment.
This book was written in 1935, and it is pure pulp.If you're a SciFi fan who is looking for an attempt at serious Science Fiction, then this isn't your book.
If you believe it's possible that a red dust could cover our solar system and make us all crazy, then this is the novel for you!
I think this book falls under the category of space opera.It's got all the crazy different character, and, of course, a fair maiden who doesn't realize that she's going to be in love with the main character.I loved this book.
I found this book on archive.org, and thought I'd give it a shot. It's a really fun, quick read! It's a bit on the juvenile side, but still very entertaining. It's amazing that the protagonists made it through the adventure considering all the hardships they had to go through. It reads a lot like an expanded pulp magazine story, which may be what it was. Worth a quick read! And it gave me some ideas!
Classica space-opera fatta di tanta azione, mostri dello spazio e la classica bella da salvare. Molte situazioni sono francamente irreali e ridicole, però il romanzo in qualche modo appassiona e, prima ancora di aver letto altri commenti su Goodreads, ci ho ritrovato alcune situazioni di Guerre Stellari (la fuga dal palazzo di Porpora soprattutto).
Old-fashioned but enjoyable space opera in the Flash Gordon sense. This book reads like a black and white serial, with stock characters, cliff hangers and various acts of derring-do. Fun but forgettable. If I'd read this at age 12 I'm sure it would be a favorite.
Boring space opera. Cliche in every way; no redeeming qualities.
Pure adventure as it used to be. If you are interested in self less heroes, beautiful maidens, horrible monster bent on conquering Earth, impossible tasks, and last minute saves, this is it!!
Fantastic SiFi from one of the early masters. Follow the adventures of 3 members of the legion. Highly recommended!
Space opera clásica, algo adolescente, pero buena.
I recently read Legion of Space by Jack Williamson. I liked the style of story it is, but not the story itself. There are some likable bits, but overall it was not a good story.
1975 no gradeSeries book L1
A trilogy. 1.
Non-stop action.
Book 1 of the Legion of Space series
4 stars from Sandy: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
