https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52472.If_He_Hollers_Let_Him_Go
I would never have imagined the horrors of racism and the vileness of color prejudice among African Americans NOT inducing hatred and rage, but Himes was such an amazing writer that I experienced Bob Jones's feelings as deeply as my own.I can't think of a reason that you wouldn't already have read this book, but if for some reason you have not, do so.
The sad and deflating truth is that the novel is as relevant to today's African American experience as it was to World War II's.That makes me a little ill and a lot sad.I can't give the book the full five because, to be frank, I found the rape-centered part of the story off-puttingly positively portrayed.
An absolutely amazing book written not only by one of the best African American writers, but one of the best writers of the 20th century, who had to move to Europe since there was no place in the America of the 50s and 60s for a black man to be a creative and successful writer expressing the reality of being a person of color in this country.
I recommended this book to my brother, and when he was done I asked him whose work it most reminded him of, and he immediately said Steinbeck, which is exactly what I thought.
The first novel from Chester Himes has some good characters & sharp dialogue, but for me it doesn't come up to the standard of his later work. It still packs a punch & has plenty to say about racism, while the author's style is sometimes as aggressive as his characters. However, it isn't in the same league as some of his other novels like The Real Cool Killers or Cotton Comes To Harlem which can easily be read more than once.
The action takes place just after the forced internment of Japanese-Americans in California, which kind of sets the stage for how Bob sees himself as a black man in white Los Angeles.
When Bob tries to explain how he feels because of being African-American in Los Angeles, Alice tries to explain to him that if he'd just let all of these feelings of white oppression go, and find himself a place in the middle-class scene, life would be so much easier for him.
World War II-era novel about a man fighting his own personal war against racism and hometown sellouts. Although it would be years before Himes would begin writing crime fiction, the writing style in If He Hollers is distinctly hard-boiled, slash and burn, in other words, NOIR. Patricia Highsmith was a fan, and I can't think of no higher endorsement of Himes' great works.
and the cover is provocative to those familiar with the novel already or are currently exposing themselves to the main character's obsessive thoughts about murdering white people.
himes is perhaps one of the best storytellers i've read, even if there feels like there's something missing in the story.
this is a classic but it doesn't feel like a great book to me, and it is the albatross of the black artist under white supremacy.
this book delivers what i expected from the title of sharon patricia holland's 'the erotic life of racism.' i'm concerned with what people do with the questions himes invites-- you know, how it is that we're still living with these same problems.
This book is a must-read for those who are literary fans of classic African American literature.
Published in 1945, Chester Himes does a marvelous job capturing the vivid character Bob Jones, who endures racism while living in California, discrimination on his job, and color complexes among his Black American friends.
The main character, Jones, resembles the character Bigger Thomas from Richard Wright's great novel 'Native Son', in that they both deal with the infectious disease of social racism.
As a result, they both grappled feelings of inferiority, thoughts of murder, rape, and destruction upon the Anglo-Saxon population.
Himes proves himself to be a wonderful literary genius with this novel.
I recall shock and horror when I dropped into a social studies classroom a few minutes early to find two boys slinging racial slurs around.
We watched Eyes on the Prize and read oodles of stuff, and I did learn.
Reading this book was a jolt.
It was a couple years later, and we weren't in college anymore.
I missed reading and discussing books with people when along came the book group craze.
Mistake #1 was when I joined this particular book group.
Mistake #2 was when they agreed to read this book at my suggestion.
And I still don't do book groups.
There are two major female characters in the story, his upper class girlfriend Alice, who is dealing with her own issues regarding race in her own way and within her own social class, and Madge, a white female worker at his job site who refuses to work with him and calls him a nigger - prompting him to call her names back and subsequently get demoted.
These two relationships are used to illustrate two different sides of Bob. With Madge (and the others on the job) he is constantly trying to hold back his urges to hurt, rape, and fight as he deals with being treated unfairly and has too much pride to let it go simply because he is one color and they are another.
I particularly liked Himes' ability to look at the many ways African-Americans cope with that status.I think it's better today than when this book first appeared in 1945 but then I read about a private swimming pool that barred a bunch of black children from swimming there (after they had joined) because they caused the white parents too much anxiety, and I live in LA and know how segregated people still are here.I became aware of Himes through a quotation in Mike Davis' City of Quartz which deserves repeating here:Up to the age of 31 I had been hurt emotionally, spiritually, and physically as much as 31 years can bear: I had lived in the South, I had fallen down an elevator shaft, I had been kicked out of college, I had served seven and one half years in prison, I had survived the humiliating last five years of the Depression in Cleveland; and still I was entire, complete, functional; my mind was sharp, my reflexes were good, and I was not bitter.
This book is gutwrenching, and accurately describes the complexity of Blackness, anti-Blackness, and white privilege. Broke my heart into a million pieces reading the raw truth of what we as Black people face... even in 2018.
A black worker in a naval plant in WWII-era Los Angeles is brutalized and driven insane by American racial politics.
The prose is strong, though not as strong as it would get in his later books, and he still has the sharp eye for injustice and hypocrisy, as he demonstrates throughout the Harlem detective series, but the plot, such as it is, is kind of….loose?
Predictable?
Ultimately I think his ‘genre’ stuff is stronger, not so much because of the genre angles specifically but more because of the sense of place which is so abundantly vivid in his Coffin Ed and Gravedigger Jones stuff, but somewhat less thick on the ground here.
3.5...blistering account of endemic racism in the US during the 40s.
I testament to the dangerous existence of white women in the world of black men. A pure horror story that's as relentless as it is brilliant. You should read this.
At some point while reading Johnson stalk a woman to rape her, though, it occurs to me that if a white dude wrote a drunken black dude obsessed with raping white wimmin, I'd throw that book out on principle, but I'm letting Himes get away with the same because he's a black guy.So, you say, what the fuck do I know, with all my white middle-class privilege and experience, about the experience of poor black men?
Both Himes and Alice are middle-class, both think poor blacks are dangerous imbeciles, and both fuck white people for career purposes.Himes says of his fellow inmates from his six years in prison: "stupid, uneducated, practically illiterate, slighting above animals." What a fucking cock, right?
The night I finished the book, I had a dream of being trapped in a pitch-black house of hundreds of room where enemies came from every sides.
•	Alice, light-coloured, sheltered, not entirely blinded from the faults of the system, but choosing not to talk about it & to live within the limitation of her race.
In that way we’ll not only solve the race problem but alleviate the meat shortage as well.’ ..."•	The psychological battle of control taking the form of lust (in which he lost, again) on the night Bob went to find MargeHe lost the final battle too.
because there was truth, true emotion, true experience even though it was a fictional book.two things seem particularly interesting about this book....1.
we know he is somehow a good man in spite of his actions.
also this book is probably that only pre-1950 book i've read that really took the vale off of sexuality in general...that was unafraid to go there because it needed to.books like this tell us a tremendous amount about the history of the USA.
a history that has been systematically valed by those in power.
Bob is a fiery man who knows his own worth and tries to assert it in the white world he lives in, even with all the restrictions he knows he have to take into account.
Himes takes you into Bob's heart of hearts and let you into his deepest, more secret thoughts and feelings.
Into his most secrets fears, his most unspeakable of hopes, into his deepest frustrations.
There had been moments I had to remind myself: "You are not Bob Jones", so deep the identification was.
Sometimes it's more like listening to his characters than read them.I've rarely read such an involving story.
but i imagine college students reading it (since i plan to teach it, this particular audience knocks on my attention's doors again and again) and, in my mind, i hear them complaining about the narrator's rantish rage, his defeatism, his inability to find a way to fit or at least soothe his anguish.
among the themes that are touched in the novel: racism in wartime (nominally) non-jim crow states; sexism and black masculinity; black self-loathing; interracial working class dynamics; class layering in the black community; jazz; los angeles los angeles los angeles.i may be wrong, but bringing the classroom to see a well-designed structure of oppression underneath bob jones' self-defeating, out-of-control fury will be a challenge.
If He Hollers Let Him Go, however, is not set in a surreal world but instead in the reality of war time Los Angeles.
He loses his job early in the novel when he snaps at a co-worker, Madge, and from that point on his situation deteriorates.The book is very interesting and depicts the world of wartime Los Angeles and war work as well as the racist system of the time.
Definitely worth a look for Himes fans who want to see his serious work-it's also interesting to compare it to his genre novels.
After reading the summary I was under the impression that the book will primarily contain some sort of judicial battle between black and white, something akin to 'to kill a mocking bird.' It wasn't the case.
Instead the book, about 90% of it, contained the thoughts and endeavours of a somewhat successful black man who experiences racism daily and is plagued by a rage to do something about it.
At times Himes explains somethings rather than show us but in those instances I felt it was necessary to push the story along and develop the character a little better.I will definitely read more of Chester Himes.
Bob's desire for a true manhood makes him chafe against the restrictions imposed on him in a segregated society, and he gets into some trouble and gets demoted.Bob's girlfriend, Alice, counsels him to try to get along with the whites, and to accept his lot as a black man in a white world, to give up trying to fight the system, and to settle for rising as high as he can within the constraints forced on a negro in his time and place.
Alice wants Bob to apologize and try to regain his former post.Bob would like to try, but things happen....
It was also a bit uncomfortable to read, since the main character is an angry "negro" man who is furious about how the world treats him and wants to respond with violence--not exactly uplifting, positive propaganda.Two quotes, to give you an idea:I thought if they really wanted to give him [the baby] a break they'd cut his throat and bury him in the back yard before he got old enough to know he was a nigger.- p4At the entrance to the dock the guard said, 'Put out that cigarette, boy.
What's the matter you coloured boys can't never obey no rules?'I tossed it over on the wooden craneway, still burning.
From a historical point of view, this book reminded me of "The Warmth of Other Suns" (highly recommended, btw) which gives the context of black folks migrating out of the South and into the North and West (Los Angeles in this case), leaving behind overt and violent racism only to find covert and differently violent racism.I had a difficult time with the narrator's attitude and behavior toward women - in one way it felt like the book was showing how he turned his hostility about racism into aggression toward women - but it was also just really unpleasant to read.
This was a terrific book!
Starting this book, I felt I was in for a pummeling about racism and not much else, but the book was written with such fierce satire and wit that I took a lot of pleasure reading it.
It was good to read someone not dancing around the issue of racism in the '40's.
The style of writing reminded me of Jim Thompson, and even Dostoyevsky in sections, the way he delves deep into the weirdness of the subject's psyche.
I loved how he would begin a lot of chapters by recounting dreams.
a freudian/lacanian retelling Native Son by Richard Wright. novel of IMPOTENCE AND FAILURE. amazingly written. it is the life of a black Josef K. in mid-century Los Angeles.
A few scenes were a little speechy but overall this is an amazing novel.
The text also skewers class pretensions of talented tenth African Americans; the violence of the lynch mob will find you regardless of how much you try to pass as white.
The descriptions of colorism within the African American community and the discussion of how Whiteness poisons Black relationships are also nuanced and thoughtful.
He does not realize that the racial structure that confines him is inextricable with both the patriarchy he wants to preserve and the nation state he wants to belong to.
I think that the strong social and political message of the novel (If He Hollers would definitely qualify as one of Baldwin's "protest novels") often overshadows just how well constructed and powerfully told this novel is.
This is the only novel I've read by Chester Himes and I was amazed that it doesn't seem to share the fame of those written by Wright, Baldwin, and Ellison.
If He Hollers Let Him go is a psychological novel and the driving narrative force comes from the thoughts of Bob Jones.
Outwardly the novel follows Bob Jones who works as a shipbuilder in LA during World War II.
Books have the capacity to place you within the consciousness of another person, albeit it a fictional one, but still, it’s one of the best tool we have to understand another person’s perspective.
Literature is like an empathy machine, and that’s the great strength of Chester Himes first novel, IF HE HOLLERS LET HIM GO.
Published in 1945, it’s also like a time machine, dropping the reader in a shipyard working on the war effort in Los Angeles.
It’s a powerful look at the racism that existed and still resonates today.
