https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48871.The_Lawless_Roads
However, Greene’s narrative concentrates as much on the strangeness of everyday life as it does on the revolutionary political events sweeping Mexico.Greene spends much of his time waiting: waiting for a boat to take him by sea from Veracruz to Tabasco, waiting for a barge to convey him upriver to Villahermosa, waiting for a plane to carry him to Salto, waiting for a mule to ride to Las Casas, and he waits most of the time in torrential rains and stifling heat.
For some people, it might be off-putting, but it’s worth persevering with, especially if you’re interested in the subject matter.This book is interesting because it tells the real story of what happened when Graham Greene travelled around Mexico in 1938, just before the start of the Second World War. He was there on commission – the Catholic church wanted to find out more about the state of religious persecution in the country.
And the same goes for Mexican words and place names – unless you pay attention, they all start to sound the same.But still, if you like to read books that give your brain a workout, give this a try.
I can't count how many times I've read this book, ever since I found it in a second-hand bookshop in Adelaide and shipped it to myself in the boxes of books I used to send before the days of online bookshops.
It's such a satisfying book that I reread it every one or two years, and every time is like the first.
Although I do have in common the fact that I also once travelled in Mexico, and didn't like it.
Greene's journey is tortuous, he comes to loathe Mexico and he doesn't hide it.
From the very beginning, it seems he's ready to forgive the atrocities of the Spanish colonialists on the grounds that they brought Christ to the heathen of Mexico, while there is no such forgiveness for the contemporary political revolutionaries on the basis of any of their altruistic contributions or ideals.This pro-Catholic sympathy emerged strongly on the subject of the Indian.
And yet Jesus abandoned his family and instructed his followers to do the same--not exactly the example of family values we should want to emulate, but I guess some stupid, religiously-idealized political debates die hard.)Still, it was a worthwhile read--perfect for the Cinco de Mayo month.
Graham Greene is one of my favorite authors and The Lawless Roads is the second non-fiction travel book of his that I read.
(Journey Without Maps was also a great book about travel in Africa) Greene is a brilliant travel writer; he makes detailed observations about the countryside, people, and customs of Mexico.
The way he traveled in the 30s makes you appreciate modern infrastructure and the advances of civilization that make godforsaken places livable.
It was from this experience that Greene wrote The Power and The Glory, which germinated from an anecdote he heard in Mexico about a whiskey priest.
Interesting and well-written, with many sharp observations about Mexico, but also very whiny, pissy even. Greene's sour Catholicism is lacking in generosity of spirit and is not attractive. When it serves as a wellspring for his best fiction, that's one thing; but here, in a direct dose, it is off-putting.
Elitist, racist, superficial, self-righteous...the author seems utterly unaware that he is guilty of many of the shortcomings that he ascribes to others. Though it is interesting to see how in many aspects Mexico has changed little since this book was written, Greene's pompous confidence in the rightness of his own beliefs is insufferable.
There was something comforting about this book- the disgust and anger that Greene, the traveler felt as he want through Mexico. I have often felt this way as I travel but feel ashamed of it. Reading his loathing and discomfort made me laugh and feel better about that dark side of myself. I admire his bravery in the journey and the writing.
As someone who frequently writes about my own travel experiences, there is a great deal of interest to be found in reading about the travels of someone who was a trenchant and candid observer of the habits and traditions and behaviors of the places where he visited, and especially hostile in cases (like Mexico) where the political powers that be are phony leftists who end up helping the US and persecuting religious Catholics, both of which were matters that Greene was rather prickly and fierce about.
He doesn't talk much about the land itself, mostly focused on small interactions with people he met, how much he hates riding mules, and his distaste for Mexican food.
But he was only there for a few weeks, and he discovered that most people didn't want to let a foreigner deeply into their lives and struggles just so he could write an article in the UK.
Throughout the book, he will go on for some time about a conclusion he's come to...
If he just said what a wonderful time he had with everyone he met, we might have an uplifting book, but not an honest one.
An anti-travel bookIf you have read and enjoyed The Power and the Glory, I highly recommend The Lawless Roads.
If you have travelled in Mexico, I highly recommend The Lawless Roads.
Nostalgia becomes a dominant theme, nostalgia for a type of travel which is difficult if not impossible to recreate in a world of a tourism industry, cell-phones and chloroquin.Greene is both racist and sympathetic in his trip through Mexico to explore the persecutions in Tabasco and Chiapas, an often forgotten episode of history.
To dismiss it as racist is to fail to grasp the universal fraternity which is at the base of Greene's Catholicism, especially notable in his treatment of the poor.
This wasn't so bad as to put me off Graham Greene; he can clearly write.
The question that I could not ask- and that made me fall out of interest in the book after 100 pages- is why on earth did he write it?
All Greene sees in Mexico is bad food (which is just baffling), inconsequential Indians (and his racism is barely hidden), and bad Catholicism.
He is deeply antagonistic towards almost everything he comes across, right from the outset, but not in an amusing or interesting way: there is a complete reluctance to engage with Mexico, almost a revulsion, which is just not what one looks for in a travel book at all.
It's difficult to enjoy a book where the author is so constantly miserable; even in his favourite places he is merely planning his next destination and when he arrives he loathes it.
The influence on Paul Theroux, however, is remarkable, at times I had to remind myself who I was reading, although he makes Theroux look positively upbeat by comparison.Having said that the writing is excellent with the the utterly wonderful turn of phrase you become used to reading Greene.
It's also a Ln amazing snapshot of a very particular time and place.
Not a useful guide for travellers but I suspect it will be read by people interested in 20th century Mexican history for generations to come
My notes from reading this in 1990: "Obsessed with post-revolutionary suppression of the Catholic church, Green undertakes a very bad journey to 1938 Chiapas. Disappointing, dull, even overtly racist."
"People never seem to help each other in small ways, removing a parcel from a seat, making room with their legs. They just sit about. If Spain is like this, I can understand the temptation to massacre."
3.5The Early Brilliance of Graham Greene
The Lawless Roads experience, then, was Greene's inspiration for The Power and the Glory and, reading the travelogue, one encounters the characters that Greene fictionalised for the later work.
"A writer's knowledge of himself, realistic and unromantic, is like a store of energy on which he must draw for a lifetime: one volt of it properly directed will bring a character to life." Having put too much of himself into The Lawless Roads, it was really interesting for me to see the extent to which Greene included himself, his own experiences and the real people he had encountered into The Power and the Glory in order to bring the fictional characters to life - a masterclass.
And when trying to explain the persecution and the situation of Catholic churches in his way to the South, shortage and misrepresentation of a country that he does not know will be present too.Thinking about positive things in the book is his description about poverty, bad government, the way of doing politics and in general his description of a country passing for a modernization process.
Commissioned to write about the Catholic purges taking place in Mexico at the time, and the reaction of the mostly religious population, Greene packs his bags and sets off with a journalistic eye and poised pen.Given the situation at the time, Greene depicts his journey honestly, from the transportation to the people he meets, from Generals hidden in the mountains to local guides, as he traverses Tabasco and Chiapas.
Un Méjico donde las autoridades se habían afanado en perseguir la religión católica, matando, exiliando, violando monjas y sacerdotes, profanando iglesias, destruyendo iconos, de manera que se borrase de la sociedad mejicana todo atisbo de esperanza en la Resurrección, sino más bien en el Estado.
Viajando solo desde la frontera con Estados Unidos, y con el propósito de llegar a Las Casas en Chiapas, Greene atraviesa un país desolado, dirigido por una banda de visionarios corruptos, que mantienen a la población en la más absoluta desesperanza.
Como en las primeras comunidades.Llama la atención el país gris que nos describe el autor, y la falsa seguridad que da el sustituir una sociedad de moral católica por la socialista del Estado.
Less well-known that "The Power and The Glory" that other work by Graham Greene set in Mexico to which with his tormented Catholic beliefs Greene was drawn as a moth to a lamp, this book The Lawless Roads is a less polemical but also perhaps a less powerful account about life in Mexico.What is fascinating about this book is that good many chapters are spent in the backwaters of Texas as the author awaits a ride which may or may not arrive to take him across the border.
As I said without the full polemical force of Greene.
Greene spent time in Mexico traveling to understand why the priests were persecuted in the states of Chiapas and Tasbasco in 1938.
These travels are documented in this book and the theme of persecution would form the basis of one of his most famous books, The Power and the Glory.
He finally gets saved via an airplane trip back to civilization and one almost feels how much he came to despise the country.
One must keep things in perspective, as he became a Catholic and needed to understand why the persecution happened in a country that is to this date, very Catholic.
No parallels here and I still like the country.
Graham Greene has a masterful command of the English language and terrific powers of description.
His voyage thru Mexico of 1938 was undoubtedly adventurous and courageous and covered a time period and places that most of us know very little about.
Mr Greene will more than satisfy that curiosity.
The book covers much of the Mexican government's attitude toward the catholic church after the presidency of Elías-Calles, the Cristero wars, and the Cárdenas presidency.
Unfortunately everything we learn in the book has to be evaluated taking into account the writers acknowledged biasses as a catholic and as a prejudiced european.
I've been exploring more of Graham Greene's work the past few years and I enjoy his writing very much.
Written originally in 1939, the story follows Greene as he explores Mexico, especially the Chiapas and Tabasco regions, in the wake of the destruction of the Catholic churches and teachings by the Mexican rulers.
At the time of this visit, the Mexican government is also in the process of nationalizing the petroleum industry, making life uncomfortable for gringos.
Greene travels through a primitive, backward region by plane and donkey.
I enjoy his observations of the people and life and admire his spirit.
***.Graham Greene was given an assignment in the late 1930s to travel to Mexico and report on the state of the Catholic Church and its relationship to the government of President Calles.
It was not clear who sponsored the trip, but I suspect that it was funded by his publishers Longmans Greene & Co by the tongue-in-cheek nature of his acknowledgement at the beginning of the work.
It does not read like a finished work typical of Greene; it was more typical of a re-copying of his daily journal.
The result was that most all the churches had been closed, and the priests driven out or shot.
I bought this book for a friend who is moving to Mexico City, but I wanted to read it first (so I could be sure it was a worthwhile gift).
It is Graham Greene's account of his trip to Mexico to investigate the government's suppression of religion.
It's pretty depressing, lots of poverty and oppression and violence.
Graham Greene is not a great traveler - he doesn't like scenery, he hates the food, and he seems to consider most native Mexicans stupid.
Still, this trip was the basis for his novel The Power and the Glory, which I am looking forward to reading!
I read this book on a recent trip to Mexico.
It is an account of Graham Greene's travels through Mexico as a journalist, investigating the persecution of Catholicism.
Having read a fair bit of Graham Greene, I was surprised to find quite such a dire, dour account.
Sadly, I found Greene's incessant racism for Mexican people generally to be slightly shocking (even allowing for the era in which it was written).
His racism was made even more stark as he spoke so highly of the few Europeans he met on his travels.
In sum, a well-written account but a rather depressing slog to read.
Problematic, to say the least.
Greene is very explicit in that he doesn't like Mexico.
I don't know about this time period in Mexican history so while reading I felt the need to do more research from a less biased point of view.
Certainly the tale of the privileged explorer who went on a "research" visit with a clear mission - to understand the persecution of his fellow Catholics.
I can't say I want to read more Greene nor do I want to visit the locations he describes.
This was Graham Greene's travel diary from his 1938 trip through Mexico, especially southern Mexico. In contrast to Greene's works of fiction, this is very loosely written, witty and funny in several moments. He makes several insights into the situation there at the end of the Cristeros period, and into the nature and culture of various types of people living at that time. He got the idea for The Power and the Glory during this trip, and one can see even some of the priests Greene used to make his protagonist for that story. Overall it's a fast, fun read.
At first, I thought this book would be too piously soaked in Greene's Catholicism or with the distant details of Mexican 20th Century history for me to be into it.
But Greene the narrator, Greene the cynic, Greene the traveller who lets you feel, see and taste what he feels, sees and tastes, won me over.
This is not his greatest book, but he ends up sucking you in, down into southern Mexico, as he rocks on a stinking ship, waits for planes that never comes and ends up grateful for the escapist properties of reading Trollope in the midst of a desert.
This traveller's hero!
