https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32439.Intensity
Intense!!! All right!!!  PERFECT TITLE The title for this novel, Intensity......is truly well selected since this book is indeed......intense!!!You are barely getting confortable, starting to read the book, just a few pages, when...Bam! Kapow! Tomá guacho!The horror begins!So, if you are a horror novel where you don't have to wait much to be full immersed in the action, don't look anymore! This is it! You found the book! NOT FOR THE FAINT OF HEART I have read quite several books by Koontz and..
The title for this novel, Intensity......is truly well selected since this book is indeed......intense!!!You are barely getting confortable, starting to read the book, just a few pages, when...Bam!
Another of the most shocking things in this book, since you don't have any paranormal/sci-fi elements here (that's an usual trait by Koontz), all the horror here is made by somebody that it's quite "just" a human being......but don't fool yourself, since the villain here can scare more than the fiercest demon that you may encounter in other novel.
I hate Dean Koontz, but I go through books quickly and have to have something to read at work, and when it comes down to it, I'll read anything you put in front of me even if it's bad just for something to do.
The way Koontz beats the shit out of the intensity motif, I find it hard to believe more people aren't rolling their eyes and saying, "Gimme a break."How about his craft?
I don't remotely understand why people buy this guy's books.
The intense of the “intensity” initiates from the long drawn out somewhat terrifying scenes of Chyna hiding from Vess in attempts to go unnoticed and to survive, and the intense of the “intensity” continues with fiery...
“...Chyna Shepherd, Untouched and Alive...”Chyna Shepard had a hard and candidly distressful childhood and she opened up to nobody.
The main companion she knew and trusted was Laura.
Chyna voyaged home with Laura for spring break and keeping in mind that gazing out the window amid her restless night, Chyna heard something peculiar.
There is always a chance to survive."
The protagonist began to make poor decision after poor decision and even though the author tried to explain it a way with thin ass logic, as a reader I was left with the running inner dialogue of: WHAT ARE YOU DOING IDIOT!?Also weirdly enough for someone like myself who LOVES reading inside the mind of a serial killer I actually didn't care for it in this novel.
OMG, I haven't read a book like this in years, and don't think I'll be reading one again any time soon.
Intensity is the perfect name for this one.
It starts right off with an intruder on a killing rampage, and never lets up.
I know, how can I keep reading, but the suspense was beyond belief, and the writing incredible.
Just the other day I was driving in the mountains, noticing a blue truck was constantly behind me.
He even made the same turn I did on a dirt road.
Was he coming to kill me?
Awesome read for horror and suspense fans!
I suppose many people feel that Koontz's books are a dime-a-dozen. But INTENSITY is as good a thriller as I've ever read, and that was 16 years ago. Very visceral and very scary. It reminds me a bit of the recent thriller,  , which was one of my favorite books of 2017.
An excellent book, full of suspense. It kept me on the edge of my seat the whole way through and the temptation to rush to the end to see what happened was huge! But I was good and enjoyed every word of it. There is a very surprising little twist to the tale at the very end which was nice. It is always good to leave a book on a high and that is certainly the case here. Dean Koontz's books do vary in quality but this is one of the good ones,
I have never read a more action packed book in my life.
It never once let up - almost from page one.
In some ways it was a little disorienting because you never had a moment to breathe, but at the same time that's also what you really want when you read a thriller.
The writing was meh, nothing special.
You get in the head of a serial killer, and who really wants to spend any time in that place!?
And yet, I read the whole book in two days.
The book was very aptly named: it was intense.
For Edgler (love the use of the "d" in his name as he points out that he is on the "edge") what matters is sensation.
There are really just the two characters, Chyna and Vess and it is a battle Koontz often explores in his novels ...
Koontz has a way of describing the dark side of human nature that you know even though this is fiction, human depravity is out there and there will always be those who find inner strength to fight it in one way or another.
A lot of Chyna's victory in this novel is finding that inner strength as she struggles with herself.
ডিন কুনটজ আমার 'অপছনদের' লেখকদের একজন। দুই-চারটা বই পড়ে শুধু বিরকতির পাললা ভারি হয়েছে আগে, তাই নতুন কোন বই হাতে নেয়ার আগে খুব যাচাই বাছাই করে সিনোপসিস/রিভিউ দেখে নেই। ইনটেনসিটির পলট সামারি পছনদ হয়েছিল বেশ।বইয়ের শুরুতে গতানুগতিক সাইকোপযাথ, সিরিয়াল কিলিং ধাচের মনে হতে পারে। তবে কিছুদূর এগোনোর পরেই বুঝতে পারবেন পরচলিত ধারার সাথে এই বইয়ের ভিননতা কোথায়। পুরো বই জুড়ে কেমন যেন গা ছমছমে হরর ফলেভার বজায় রয়েছে। খুনী এডলার ফোরমযান ভেস নিজেকে "হোমিসাইডাল এডভেঞচারার" হিসেবে ভাবতে সবাচছনদযবোধ করে। তার এসব খুন

My first book by this author was AMAZING.
Then somewhere down the road, the villains all started to meld together.
The villains became a little predictable for me because they all shared the same qualities.
The first 60% of the book was the best.
If you enjoy thrillers and haven't read many (or any) Koontz novels, then you will probably love Intensity.
My first and favorite Koontz novels Lightning and The Good Guy. I'm giving this 3 stars because I loved the first 60%.
I'm still going to give Odd Thomas a go later on, but I think I'm done with his other novels.
This was a very scary story!
"Intensity" is a very appropriate title for this book, I couldn't stay away from it.
If anyone is looking for a good horror, "Intensity" fits the bill.
Be warned though, this book has a lot of adult stuff and has a lot of situations that are difficult to swallow as the story is centered around the actions of a sociopath and depicts instances of severe child abuse.
However, I gave it five stars becuase I couldn't put it down, it kept me guessing, and it was actually scary and not cheesy like many horror novels.
This is thriller suspense at its best.
Dean Koontz knocked my socks off with this one, and as soon as I started reading, I could not get through it fast enough.
Pages burned and I might have had to stomp my book out a few times.
In a way, this is not entirely typical for Dean Koontz.
Don't expect anything supernatural or overly bizarre.
It's about a killer and a survivor.
This book does not slow down once it kicks into high gear.
It'll freak you out, and there's some great twists along the way.
One of Koontz's best!
The last 200 pages of this book are what makes me want to give it 5 stars but I didn't enjoy it as much as I hoped to, so four stars it is. The end plot twist was something I did not see coming and for that I applaud Koontz; I read this book relatively quickly and I didn't have to force myself to keep reading.
There is very little supernatural element to this one.(view spoiler)[my favorite part is the female elk which are portrayed as mysterious guardian angels - really the only supernatural element - so you can see what attracts me to Koontz stories :-)"The elk's heart-shaped face was barely visible from a distance of only eight feet.
This reckless caring." (hide spoiler)]Other favorite passages:The cool air was redolent with the pleasant fecund smell of freshly plowed earth, and there was a sense of mystery in the dark fields that she found intriguing, enchanting - but at times disconcerting, as if they were among unseen presences , ancient spirits that were not all benign.______It sounded as if someone were opening a giant door in the wall of the night itself and stepping in from another world.______One of the knives was near her hand.

More like intensely boring.
I started this, got not even half way through and stopped reading it to read a Heather Graham book that i finished faster and enjoyed way more.
I actually liked Vess as weird as that may be.
Well, I liked how he viewed things.
It was a little weird that it Chyna found him attractive?
It took me over a week to read this, maybe about 2 weeks i cant remember when i started but it usually only takes a couple days for me to finish a book so that says plenty.
The title definitely describes this book. Dean Koontz really nailed this book.
Chyna needs to make some better life decisions.
The two heroines (Lisbeth in Dragon Tattoo and Chyna in Intensity) were similar in their actions.
Instead of running and trying to get away (like normal people) she went after him with the barest of weapons.
A theme I liked is Lisbeth and Chyna refusing to be victims.
In Intensity I was scared almost all the time.About a third of the way in I was so scared that I considered stopping unless I had assurance that there would be a good ending.
Reading the end early in no way hurt the story for me.
"Intensity" lives up to its name. Intense from the first page to the last, well written and masterfully suspenseful, it's one of the best books by Dean Koontz.""God fears me."
আমার মনে হয় যে যাদের অনরথক রকতারকতি, ভায়োলেনস ভালো লাগে না তাদের বইটা না পড়াই ভালো হবে। সিরিয়াল কিলিং আর সাইকোপযাথ কিলার নিয়ে বহু বই পড়েছি আগে। কিনতু নৃশংসতার দিক দিয়ে এই বইটা অবশযই উপরের দিকেই থাকবে। এক দিক দিয়ে চিনতা করলে এটা হরর, কিনতু এখানে হরর এলিমেনট হিসেবে হিউমযান সাইকোলজি কে বযাবহার করা হয়েছে। মানুষ এর সবচেয়ে বড় শতরু যে মানুষ ই হতে পারে এই বইটা আবার সেটা মনে করিয়ে দিবে। যদি একবার বই এর কাহিনির ভেতর ঢুকে পড়েন তাহলে ছেড়ে ওঠা একটু কষটকর ই হবে। তবে নিজ দায়িতবে পড়বেন। রাতে ঘুম না হলে লেখক দায়
আমার মনে হয় যে যাদের অনর্থক রক্তারক্তি, ভায়োলেন্স ভালো লাগে না তাদের বইটা না পড়াই ভালো হবে। সিরিয়াল কিলিং আর সাইকোপ্যাথ কিলার নিয়ে বহু বই পড়েছি আগে। কিন্তু নৃশংসতার দিক দিয়ে এই বইটা অবশ্যই উপরের দিকেই থাকবে। এক দিক দিয়ে চিন্তা করলে এটা হরর, কিন্তু এখানে হরর এলিমেন্ট হিসেবে হিউম্যান সাইকোলজি কে ব্যাবহার করা হয়েছে। মানুষ এর সবচেয়ে বড় শত্রু যে মানুষ ই হতে পারে এই বইটা আবার সেটা মনে করিয়ে দিবে। যদি একবার বই এর কাহিনির ভেতর ঢুকে পড়েন তাহলে ছেড়ে ওঠা একটু কষ্টকর ই হবে। তবে নিজ দায়িত্বে পড়বেন। রাতে ঘুম না হলে লেখক দায়ী নয় (আমিও না)।
INTENSITY (Mini-Group Read 2017) link - June 1st  This is my second read & I added more "fire" notes. Sheriff Vess is "sick" killing his parents, grandmother & adoptive parents by "fire". In the end, Chyna/Ariel in the motor home chase/crash into Vess' police car & spilled gasoline on the pavement. They roll in gas trying to escape. Chyme reaches to Vess' gas-soaked boots with a (view spoiler)[butane lighter to light the boots & kill Vess with his sickness with "fire" (hide spoi
INTENSITY (Mini-Group Read 2017) link - June 1st
Sheriff Vess is "sick" killing his parents, grandmother & adoptive parents by "fire".
In the end, Chyna/Ariel in the motor home chase/crash into Vess' police car & spilled gasoline on the pavement.
May 2015 - Many good "intense" escape & thriller sequences are written.
She follows Vess to Ariel Delaney (16) being held captive.
Typical hero & chase story with Chyna saving Ariel & taking "care" of Vess.
Follow the problems Vess had with the Tempton & Delaney families.
Some "intense" scenes are fighting Doberman dogs with ammonia spray & Vess' motor home chases.Audio on YouTube.com - https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=kbBjlOy...
This book made me think a lot about people who are in position to negatively or affect people’s lives. Presidents, police officers, senators , etc. The killer really makes you think. The heroine makes you want her to succeed. You find yourself saying no, just save yourself. I really liked this book.
Actual rating: 4.5 stars.I have never read a book that has kept me on edge, frightened me and made me feel so triumphant.
Her sheer determination, courage and animal need to survive allowed her to embrace her past, to use her horrendous childhood as strength rather than hide it away as she had done for so many years.
If you are in need of a book that gets your heart racing, makes you question beliefs and keeps you on the edge of your seat, you have to pick this up.
The experience you will have is one of sheer "Intensity".
It's all in the title! Have never read a book that made me feel so intense and on the edge of my seat! Had to actually put it down one night, was worried I'd have nightmares haha! Cannot recommend this book enough! Even watched the American tv series that was made I was so obsessed but unfortunately like most movies made from books lacked the quality and 'intensity'. Well worth a read you won't be disappointed.
I read this a long time ago but just now realized I never reviewed.This book shaped me as an author.How? you might ask.Because villains don't have to be creepers with bad teeth. The scariest come in a package you never expected. Depraved doesn't mean on the outside they are not passable, even likable.What scares me most are bad guys/gals we'd let help us with our groceries.(Still a favorite)
I have so many books on my Kindle that were on sale or free that I haven't read yet. I've been browsing today & found Intensity which I bought in 2010. Let's give it a try.My heart rate has been about 110 to 120 while reading this book. Its the story of a real sicko! It was close to a 5 star for me but the ending went on and on. The title is perfect for this book, it was intense!
This book is about a serial murderer. It gives the full story of the killer and his victims. The killers techniques make it a horror story. This was a good book. Keeps you interested.
The main character, Chyna Shepherd, has come to Napa Valley with a friend, Laura Templeton, to visit Laura’s family farm.
At the soft thump, Chyna instinctively recognizes that evil is inside.Following the stifled cries and the soft thump, silence sifted down like snowfall.
Chyna is much braver than I am.Evil has killed Laura’s entire family.
The next 100 pages are so “intense” my hand holding the book is cramping.When the man carries Laura outside and puts her into an RV, Chyna heroically sneaks aboard.
Does Chyna hide and take the chance that evil will get away—escaping punishment for what he did to Laura and her family?
