https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94510.100_Bullets_Vol_1
More episodic than what it later evolved into, this collection, originally published by Vertigo, a DC imprint, still packs a mean punch almost 30 years later.Isabelle “Dizzy” Cordova has just gotten out of prison……her punishment weighs heavily on her, but not as heavy as the murder of her husband and son, enter Agent Graves with an offer…She gets the opportunity to kill the policeman who killed her family with the above mentioned gun and bullets……but the decision and consequences aren’t so cut and dried.The second episode reveals a bigger picture - that the over-arching story has more layers than just pointing and shooting – something the first few issues barely hinted at.
Azarello has a knack for juggling multiple story lines and dark humor and his ear for dialogue and dialect is peerless.
I reread this because a student wanted our graphic novels/comics class to read it this term.
So for his sake I reread it, September 2014, and more slowly, respecting his love of the series, and I felt pretty much the same way about it, but again, for his sake, will read on this time, as he suggests that I need to read 3-4 volumes before it hits its stride.
Too much to read, too little time, right?
But here I go, on to 100 Bullets volume 2.
Don't let that stop you though - you need to read it to get into 100 Bullets, and once you do it just keeps getting better.If you like crime drama and gritty noir-ish comics, this is for you.
Premise goes like this: dude shows up with an attache with 100 untraceable bullets, a gun, and irrefutable evidence that somebody did something bad to you - the cause of your misfortune.
Once you get into the storyline about what else is going on, it starts to get really good - but that's not until the second trade really.
I don't think I'll change my rating for this volume (the way women are drawn in this is so gross guys - I get it's going for a noir aesthetic, but just ugh, no), but revisiting these characters while knowing things that are to come was actually really fun!
*****This was a fun noir-ish crime/mystery story.
It's an intriguing premise, but readers hardly see Mr. Graves in this first volume and because of the structure, you don't really get to know the characters he meets.
But, again, the ending was ridiculous, and tied to whatever the overall "plot" of the series is (it's too early to tell here what that may be) so it just seems like an extraneous buzzkill.
A likable-enough character is killed off for the sake of some overarching storyline I couldn't give a wet fart about.I was hoping these comics would be quick, suspenseful jabs of moral ambiguity and the like.
They are, but the overarching "buy the next ish!" storyline suffocates the good stuff and kills the whole thing for me.
That’s the offer Agent Graves, a mysterious man with an untraceable gun and 100 bullets, presents to Dizzy, a recently released Latina former gangbanger whose husband and baby were gunned down by corrupt cops, and Lee, a bartender whose happily married and prosperous life was destroyed by false paedophilia allegations.
There is the usual “is this for real?” doubt going back and forth in the story over the odd situation Graves presents her with and, while Dizzy did do what I knew she was going to by the end of her arc, there was a surprise element thrown in that I didn’t see coming.
I heard nothing about this except that it's going to be a movie or series? And Tom Hardy.Other than that, the story itself sound interesting and something I hadn't of heard before. The art style you get used to, though the in between chapters, the art is a little better. The characters I'm not sure about. I was a little confused at first, but once you get reading, its alright. Overall, an interesting premise to a series I might read more from.
Loved it.
I don't know if they get into the background of Mr. Graves later in the series, but the premise of the first volume stood well all by itself.
Two stories in this, the first is excellent if somewhat predictable, but after reading the second story the first felt almost like a red-herring setup, a way to tell you "yes, this book, like all other entertainment properties, is going to go pretty much the way you expect." The second story changed that perception, and even made the first story better although they are unrelated.
Η πρώτη που λαμβάνει τη βαλίτσα είναι η dizzy, μία λατίνα που μόλις βγήκε από τη φυλακή με στοιχεία για το ποιοι σκότωσαν τον άντρα και το παιδί της όσο ήταν φυλακή.Σύντομα όμως η σειρά αρχίζει να ασχολείται με το γιατί οι σφαίρες είναι αόρατες και με μία τεράστια συνωμοσία που ο Graves (ο άγνωστος με τη βαλίτσα) θέλει να εκδικηθεί; Δεν ξέρω ακριβώς αν το θέλει ή αν όχι, κυρίως επειδή, πολύ σύντομα, το κόμικ γίνεται ένα κουβάρι από νήματα πλοκής σχετικά με τη συνωμοσία, ενώ ταυτόχρονα σκάνε και μικροϊστορίες εγκλημάτων, που όμως καταλήγουν είτε σε νήματα πλοκής ή έχουν λίγη σχέση με τις 100 σφαίρες.
Reading it that way was like plucking your pubes one-by-one, because the overall story arc was so complex that it makes 'Lost' look like an episode of 'According to Jim.' EVERYTHING matters in 100 Bullets, and my little brain couldn’t keep track of things on a monthly basis.
I THINK that this is one of the most meticulously-plotted stories ever.
Volumes 9-13 aren’t even worth bothering with if you aren’t totally on board.
You might appreciate some of the bits, but mostly you’d be lost.At the very least, these are worth checking out because no one – NO ONE – draws boobies like Eduardo Risso.
You've been gravely wronged in the past, and the briefcase contains absolute proof of who wronged you, a gun, and 100 untraceable bullets.
What do you do?And that's the main point of 100 Bullets, putting a series of characters into that situation and giving them the choice.
And being flawed people who are dealing with a dramatic revelation, they make flawed choices.
Azzarello was good at that, making these people and their decisions believable.
And since the storylines are short overall (2 or 3 issues each, in this trade) you won't be stuck with a story if you can't get into it.
2.5 starsI picked this up just to see if it could change my mind on Azzarello.
I wasn't a big fan of his Wonder Woman story but I feel like I need more than that before I just write him off entirely.
Unfortunately, 100 Bullets hasn't really changed my mind.
As a crime story, 100 Bullets honestly isn't bad.
It is an interesting premise so I'll be curious to see what Azzarello does with it in the following volumes.
I didn't fall in love with this first volume but I'll hold off on judgement on Azzarello until I've read the rest of the series.
The first story-arc in volume one centers on Isabelle “Dizzy” Cordova who, having just been released from several years of hard time for a crime that she didn’t commit, is approached by the mysterious Agent Graves.
Henry-like world of crime noir, revenge is not just a dish best served cold, but one that involves those closest to you.
Now years after the fact – and having served time for a crime that he didn’t commit (like Cordova) – he is also approached with the same offer by Graves.
Διάβασε όλο το review εδώ3.5Το όμορφο σχετικά με τις υποθέσεις είναι πως έχουν αρκετή ίντριγκα για να σου τραβήξουν αμέσως το ενδιαφέρον, αλλά δεν είναι υπερφορτωμένες, αφήνοντας χώρο για τις επιλογές και σκέψεις των πρωταγωνιστών.
Όχι, οι δύο κεντρικοί χαρακτήρες εδώ δεν σε μαγνητίζουν όπως ο Marv από το Sin City, για παράδειγμα, αλλά αφήνουν και οι δύο το στίγμα τους και στηρίζεις τις ηθικά γκρίζες επιθυμίες τους.
Εξίσου εντυπωσιακή είναι και η δουλειά του Risso, ο οποίος δίνει μια ταιριαστή noir χροιά στο σχέδιο του χωρίς όμως η δουλειά του να στερείται ζωηράδας: το σκίτσο του έχει μια πολύ «ζουμερή» αισθητική που το αποτρέπει από το να πέσει σε κοινότυπα noir μονοπάτια.
The tale of a mysterious man who approaches people who have been wronged and gives them the chance to enact revenge with untraceable guns and 100 bullets, as well as hard evidence on the person who did them wrong and where they can be found. Interesting play of light and darkness as well as the play on the noir genre angles. CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B minus to B; ARTWORK: B; STORY/PLOTTING: B minus to B; OVERALL GRADE: B minus to B; WHEN READ: end of January 2012.
It's a promising start.Vol 1 contains 2 stories.First story is about former gang member who's husband and son where killed by corrupt cops, second is about waiter who's life is destroyed when he is falsely accused of pedophilia.They both where very enjoyable but far from great.It also has slightly obscure visual style in dark pastel colors that fit story well.Overall it is nice noir comic but not good enough to compete with best.
More 3.5*It was interesting but it didn't blow me away. I liked the premise and was intrigued to see what the characters would have done. I do wanna keep reading them because Graves is dodgy and I want to know all about him.
First Shot, Last Call collects issues 1-5 in the series.
What you do get are the stories of Dizzy Cordova (who walks out of prison with a chance to avenge her murdered family) and Lee Dolan (a man whose life and relationships were broken by a wrongful child pornography conviction).
Lee Dolan’s tale has an easier dialect route, and frankly, a more complex and interesting story, but I get why they launched the series on a straightforward revenge plot.
I’ve heard 100 Bullets gets better from here, and, regardless of the flaws, I’ll likely take another trip in the universe.
Volume 1 in this Eisner award winning series seems like a good intro to a larger story - just a small taste to intrigue you.
Inside this suitcase is a gun, 100 untraceable bullets, and information about whoever wronged the target.
The three stories in this volume show three targets and their different reactions.
It's definitely all questions and no answers at this point, and I'm looking forward to reading more.
My only complaint at this point is that so far, even though there is proof about the wrongdoer in the suitcase, none of the targets seem to look at it.
My Brief Bookshelf Overview: grim, story-not-intriguing-enough, violentAdditional Notes: This collection contains 100 Bullets issues #1-5.ABSOLUTE RATING: {2.5/5 stars} (Rounded Down)STANDARDIZED RATING: <2/5 stars>The first volume of 100 Bullets reads like a typical noir tale, but lacks almost any charm whatsoever.
It was a chore to wade through the dialogue, most of which was written in an inner-city ghetto dialect.
And while not altogether terrible, Risso's crummy art only adds to the dreadful atmosphere of the story.
In many ways, feels like a poor man's Scalped, but while I've decided to give that another try, I'm convinced 100 Bullets has nothing at all substantial to offer me.
Billed as crime realism, I found this merit to be limited to the dialogue.
No one has superpowers and our protagonists balk, blunder and wrestle with ethics, all of which is good.
However the central conceit is as far-fetched as the next comic with powerful, shadowy figures pulling the strings.I may continue with this series in the future, but am not chomping at the bit.
After the main two storylines, I was ready to let it go.
Then near the end, these and several other loose threads were tied together in an intriguing preview of the hidden forces at work, promising more interesting mayhem to come.
Maybe it's just the inevitable passage of time and the pitfalls of reading a book that wanted to be "current" nearly 20 years after it was written, but this whole book just felt like your dad trying to be cool.
It's a comic book, and I appreciate that the form allows some license to bend and, more to the point, escape from reality, but this book is completely without nuance in a way that makes it feel tediously devoid of any kind of relatable human experience; every person is always a "vato" to every Hispanic gangster; every woman is always drawn with extremely large breasts, including the stripper who explicitly cites the fact that she has small breasts; every conflict is part of some theo-mythical secret agent jerk off conspiracy that I definitely don't care about.
I also thought that Azzarello could've done better portraying the skepticism of the individuals approached--possibly by letting us in on some of the secret proof in the briefcase.I also wasn't a fan of the first story arc in the volume (there's one long and one short) about a chick getting revenge for the killing of her baby and baby daddy.
(A note to gangbangers everywhere: If you want to be considered a businessman, maybe you should finish school and learn skills you just might need like arithmetic and speaking in complete sentences.
Always on the lookout for what might turn HS kids away from digital media and onto reading, I stumbled upon this series.
This seems to be a good fit for those kids who find and like The Barrio Kings, Yummy: The Last Days of a Southside Shorty, Street Pharm, and Unchained.
This book holds three stories that are only connected in the loosest ways; the opening one is the longest and best: Dizzy is a sympathetic home girl.
Risso sometimes layers the story panels on top of a background in which another storyline is unfolding.
This is a darkest of dark graphic novel with an intriguing premise, that of giving certain people to means to enact revenge on a person that did them wrong without fear of consequences or retribution.
The devil, however, is in the details, which is why some people's revenge backfires on them in spectacular fashion.Much of this first volume focuses on a young Hispanic woman called Dizzy who suffered the loss of her husband and son who were killed by crooked cops.
The lives of Dizzy and her associates is a particularly bleak one - the boys end up on drugs, in prison or dead, the girls are having babies at 14 and are considered old by 20.
3.5 stars
Going through an identity parade of characters in this way will become totally repetitive, so I'm excited to see what the next volumes bring.Characterisation was sparse, simply because Azzarello had limited time to explore the lives of the two characters.
Agent Graves seems to be the only static character so far, and it'll be interesting to see if he is explored in any real depth going forwards.I'm really starting to appreciate these tough, noir-like comics.
The art here is good, and although pretty cartoon-like in places, does a good job to portray the bleak lives of the pair who are offered the gun.
A good Crime story, though, isn't really about crime at all - it's about Justice, and that is clearly the case wit 100 Bullets.There's an interesting moral question asked in the story, one that parallels Plato's Ring of Gyges myth; if you were given the tools with which to kill someone, without fear of reprisal, would you do it?
What about if the person you're asked to kill is someone who also ruined your life, and you know that they'll never face justice under the legal system?
What if you had an opportunity to to receive an untraceable gun and ammo, where you can kill those who were responsible for ruining your life??This is the premise of this book. I found that the artwork was a bit choppy, and disorganized at times, and the second story arc in this book to shift gears from the first's setup. Although I do like the premise of this book, I may continue, hoping that there may be more twists and turns to come.
This was horrid. And I don't say that lightly. It's not the subject matter - I'm just fine with noir. But it was clumsily executed, filled with cliches that were even worse than those one usually finds in this genre, flabbily written in the 'decompressed' writing style that dominates comics (which means it takes 100 pages to do what could be done in 23 with a more talented writer) and incomprehensible panel compositions made this a bloody tedious mess.
