https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144127.The_Runelords
The bad guy, Raj Ahten, extracts endowments from people unwillingly, and his character sheet is something like this:STR Modifier: 1,000DEX Modifier: 1,000CON Modifier: 1,200WIS Modifier: 2,000 (way more than is necessary, and he even says so.)INT Modifier: 1,000CHA Modifier: 14,000,000 (he feels pretty, and witty, and gaaay!)The crux to Raj Ahten is that he claims he's acquiring all these endowments in order to more ably fight humanity's enemies, the Reavers.
Farland makes it easy for his Good Guys to take endowments too, because anyone who's tasked with taking an endowment must take care of their subjects, sort of like a VA Hospital.
This was a reasonably good swords-and-sorcery type of fantasy adventure, well thought-out and with a very unusual magical system, and popular enough that it's a series of eight books so far.
The magic functions on a system of "endowments": using the magical spells, one person permanently (until either the giver or the recipient dies) gifts another with his or her personal attribute: strength, speed, good looks, intelligence and so one.
If you gift someone your good looks, you're permanently ugly.
I had no desire to continue with the series, and I gave away my copy of this book.
This following review was an assignment for a fantasy literature course at BYU.The RunelordsAuthor, Title, Facts of Publication The Runelords was written by David Wolverton and published in 1998. The author used the pseudonym David Farland to market the book because he wanted it on store shelves in the F section as a marketing strategy. David Farland is a Mormon and LDS themes such as covenant making and sacrifice thread through his work. Setting The book takes place in the fantasy kingdom of Ro
Setting	The book takes place in the fantasy kingdom of Rofehavan where wights haunt the forests, frowth giants trample the underbrush, wizards cast ancient spells, and an unstable feudal society struggles for order.
The king organizes his forces in defense, but Raj Ahten easily conquers the castle without force using his voice and glamour endowments to convince Sylvarresta’s forces to open the draw bridge and serve him.
He marries Iome and prepares to confront Raj Ahten in future novels.CharacterizationFantasy characters are usually categorized into races such as elves, humans, or orcs, and then into classes such as knights, barbarians, wizards or clerics.
Promises an epic scope; battles between nations; a somewhat complex villain; a love story (not a good one though!), earth and fire magic; surprises and some economical and moral issues regarding the endowmentsSCORING: Superb (A), Excellent (A-), Very good (B+), Good (B) Fairly Good (B-) Above Average (C+), Mediocre (C ), Barely Passable (C-) Pretty Bad (D+), Dismal (D), Waste of Time (D-), Into the Trash (F)DIALOGUE: B- STRUCTURE: B+ HISTORY SETTING: B CHARACTERS: B EVIL SETUP/ANTAGONISTS: B+ EMOTIONAL IMPACT: B- SURPRISES: A- LITTLE THINGS: A- MONSTERS: B+ PACING: A- OVERALL STYLE: B- FLOW OF WORDS: B- CHOICE OF FOCUS: B- TRANSITIONS/FLASHBACKS/POV: B COMPLEXITY OF WORDS/SYMBOLISM/THEMES: B-OVERALL GRADE: B OVERALL STYLE: See EXTREME ANALYSIS for information (below).
As I said in my review of On My Way to Paradise, I don't know how I missed Dave Wolverton back in the late 1990s, but I'm sure it had something to do with starting college, doing more homework and reading fewer novels, and, probably, girls.
After putting it off to finish one thing and another, I finally dug in, started reading, and soon found myself lost between the pages.A lot of reviewers and readers will note that The Sum of All Men breaks new ground, manages to come up with a magic system that is fresh and original, and it's true.
It is old school traditional fantasy with some interesting elements, notably the use of runes and the endowment system.
As it turned out, this hit the spot without being a clone of the big hitters.
It is high (epic) fantasy in the grand tradition, though, and competently executed.
I’m probably just starting to show my age, but there seems to be a sweet spot in terms of Fantasy that appeals to me.
And isn’t realism the opposite of fantasy?
It also looks set to be a pretty big story, with different factions and a layered sense of established history and lore.
It was "okay" but I didn't "like it".
And as long as it is done in love and the disabled are looked after it's all good.
I hate love at first sight, I know not very romantic of me, lust at first sight sure.
But...well in the first few chapters our hero prince arranges the marriage of his bodyguard and a woman they just then met.
And our prince has fallen in love with our heroine even though they haven't officially met.
And if I had read it ten years ago I might have liked it a lot.I would recommend it to fans of Brandon Sanderson, especially if you loved Elantris.
There seemed to be 2 kinds of magic in this world, one was called giving endowments.
So if someone gave away their strength, they would not be able to move at all and would have to be taken care of for the rest of their lives.
The main bad guy in the story has thousands of endowments and wants to rule the world.
That is another catch, an endowment would have to be freely given and not taken by force or it would not work.
Nothing I read makes me excited to read the rest of the series.
The Runeloards was everything I wanted in a fantasy. David Farland's world really blew me away. It feels ancient and believable in all the right ways, without clinging to racial tropes of the genre. He is one author that I could say surprises me with the decisions he makes throughout the story. I kind of ran through reading this without even realizing how fast I was devouring the tale. I'm already moving on to the second book now with an eagerness that excites me.
3.0 stars. One of the more original "systems" of magic I have read about in some time. I thought the author did a decent job of exploring the results of the system as well though I thought the story and the prose were just okay. Still, a pretty good read.
As a writer who reads rather critically, I often find myself guessing the ending of a book, and sighing in disappointment as the plot plays out exactly as I'd expected, or worse, falls apart into meaningless mush.
This then, is the goal of my own writing--to use the techniques he taught so well that like well-stitched clothing, the wearer is so focused on the look and feel of the garment that they never think about seams and fasteners.The ending of this first book in the series was very satisfying, and yet the wider world conflict left me aching to read what happens to these characters next.
*NOTE: SPOILER*Overall it wasn't that bad, but left me very disappointed.
I think this was mainly due to the fact that I thought the author had some very promising ideas with a good plot, making a bad final quarter of the book leaving me feeling empty and dissatisfied.
The blurb promises a good battle at the least!
i was left thinking 'ok, what is the earth king going to do..
oh yes, NOTHING.' The disappointment was magnified due to the ridiculous length of the book which should of been half the size at best.
There's its basic concept of people being used like livestock to give superpowers to a few boneheads.
It does dwell on the...DUBIOUS morality, but not in a way that really provokes any thought or reaction.There's the naturalist religion that is SORT OF a counter to the rampant rune use and possibly a stand-in for christianity.
But then it veers off into fairly arbitrary moral standards and inconsistent miracle-work (okay, maybe that reinforces the christianity angle.
But it is very confusing, and not in a way that makes additional reading seem like a good time investment.
It was a perfectly adequate Star Wars adventure notable more for the people, places, and things that it introduced to the then-fledgling Star Wars Expanded Universe than for actually being a good book.
If you tell a good story about entertaining characters the first time, people will always come back for more, especially if they are of the same or even better quality like the Marvel Movies have been.This is a problem that has been plaguing movies for the last decade or so, but it's also started seeping into books, and it needs to freaking stop.
As i read each book and new installment within the Runelords series i was dazzled by how great the storyline was and how each new book seemed to be even better than the previous one, being more exciting and interesting with the storyline becoming even more complex and facinating.
This book did take me a few chapters to get into and it took me a while to understand and come to terms with the world that David Farland had created, the geneology & the characters and the places; as each fantasy story is different and some are more complex than others which does vary and depends also on the particular writers style.
There wasn't a single part of this book that I found boring or irritating - actually, I found the main bad guy VERY irritating but I'm pretty sure that was Farlands intention - the story moved at a good pace with plenty of action and fantastic characters.
I couldn't say who was the main hero in this story because so many sacrificed their lives and efforts to fight Raj Ahten ( the Villain ) But I quite taken with Gaborn ( the main character ) His will to preserve life and his high standards for himself was everything a hero should be.
But as a now 20-something reader it is hard to imagine that I would fall for Farland's ideas of love at first sight and heroic self sacrifice.Farland is however a brilliant action writer, fight scenes flow and give a real sense of impending danger but overall I think it the book may lack some of the more gritty human elements, lust for example is ignored.The magic system of giving endowments is the element of the Runelords series that I still love to this day.
Turns out I've been missing a real treat.Although the story is fairly standard fantasy stuff there are two things that really stand out; 1) The magic system, whereby people can be empowered by taking enhancements from people - making the person recieving the the enhancement more powerful but leaving the donor a wreck.
For me, this makes a story all the more enjoyable.All in all, quality storytelling and characterisation, set in a believable land - It took me a while to start this eries but I'm really glad I did.
Much of the setting--and even some of the story--is conventional fantasy fare, but David Farland, aside from being a masterful storyteller, has built his world around a complex and thought-provoking social system involving the exchange of "endowments." Attributes such as stamina, grace, and wit are a currency: a vassal may help his lord by endowing him with all of his strength, for instance, and in turn the vassal comes under the lord's care as his "dedicate," too weak to even walk.
A Runelord might have hundreds of such endowments, giving him superhuman senses and abilities, but he then must care for the hundreds that he has deprived of strength, or beauty, or sight.
I was very impressed with the writing and love it when the author makes the characters do what I probably would have done in the same situation.
The author also pays attention to detail and does a very good job answering "how would it work if..." type questions pertaining to his magic system.
I thought this would be an easy read and didn't expect much but was very happy with the book and will be finishing the series for sure.Update: I listened to the audio 12/13/2018 and LOVED IT!
So many things you forget in 5 years.
This is totally worth the time.
Part of the moral conflict of the book concerns the propriety of accepting endowments from poor people in lieu of payment they can’t make any other way—and then you have the Big Bad, Raj Ahten, who just takes endowments at the tip of a sword and laughs nefariously when he thinks no one is looking.That’s not the best part of the magic system, though.
She’s beautiful, apparently, and more so with endowments of glamour—but then she has to give glamour to Raj Ahten (because he wants to be the fairest of them all!) and becomes super ugly, and this bums her out.Now, I’m going to cut Iome a little slack here.
Gaborn's plans are put on hold, however, when he receives word that Raj Ahten, the most powerful Runelord since Daylan Hammer, is leading his army north into Heredon and has nearly reached Castle Sylvarresta.
Although Gaborn travels as fast as possible to the castle, he still arrives just moments before Raj Ahten and his forces.
Raj Ahten, meanwhile, moves his forces out, with a similar intent as Gaborn: track down and kill King Orden.
With Raj Ahten gone, Prince Orden's personal bodyguard, Sir Borenson, acting on orders of the King breaks into the dedicate's keep at Castle Sylvarresta and begins slaying all the dedicates.
With thousands of endowments taken from other men and women he is truly a man among men and takes over Castle Sylvarresta without a single drop of blood being shed.
Endowed with the Gift of the Earth and deemed to be the future King who will seek revenge upon Raj Ahten Gaborn flees with the Princess and King Sylvarresta to beat Raj Ahten to the fotress where he has mistakenly hidden several thousand forcibles, the key to his power.
The titular Runelords are nobles, warriors, and the like who grant themselves superpowers by taking "endowments" from other people - endowments such as brawn, stamina, wit, sight.
Some nods are made in the direction of it being a noble act to only take endowments when absolutely necessary, but for the most part in the novel it's treated as if it's no big deal for a king or duke to become a superman by maiming and crippling dozens of his subjects - and we're supposed to empathize and root for these bastards.On a personal note, I imagine this book bothered me more than it should have because I've lived with a disability my whole life and generally resented people whose bodies function properly.

I think I have tried to read this series before a few years ago and couldn't get past the magic system.
I think that I may even have tried to read it when it first came out and was just pissed off by the system at the age of 18 when it hit back in '98 to give it a fair shake.
I still don't like the giving up of attributes to make another person into a superhuman and the villain of the piece is in desperate need of a good guillotineing (is that a word?
Good read, good start, and good buildup for what looks like another solid epic fantasy series.
I was actually expecting this book to be quite bad.
I recommend this book to anyone that like epic fantasy, and is looking for more than video game style mindless action with bits of a generic story thrown in.
But don't expect great depth of characters.
The magic system is pretty cool and so is the overall story, the weakness is in the authors ability to make characters that seem real and keep your attention.

The underlying story of the Prince trying to win over the affection of a Princess takes a format that everybody is used to and adds to the style of the story.I thought that the start was very slow in places as introducing such a complex world was never going to be easy.
However The second half is much faster paced, much more intense and very gripping.I also found the range of narrators quite a good element to have in the book, and even though his is pointed as the main villian, when the chapters are narrated by Raj Ahten you start to warm up to his ways...
I have not read many fantasy epics and would like to start.
So I may in time come back and look upon this novel less favorably in comparison, but for the time being I enjoyed it.
Not as much as Sharon Shinn's Twelve Houses series...but I highly doubt I will ever favor ANY fantasy novel series as much.
There are three more books in this series and then an additional series with four more books.
I feel like I may read the rest at a later date and have enough interest to try, but for now I am content.
