https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51356.Nationalism_And_Culture
The state has therefore no use for intellectual culture (which is a form of resistance of humans so that they can master their environment) and does what it can to fight it.Rocker’s also provides a brief analysis of German socialism, tracing Marx back to Hegel and Kant and the belief in an unchangeable law, which has given it an unfortunate “authoritarian character.”Then we deal with nationalism (culminating with the birth of Nazi Germany), which Rocker defines as reactionary and enforcing a certain character on the population based on preconceived ideas.
Complete text available here:http://www.anarchosyndicalism.net/roc...
The chapters on language, race, and the insufficiency of economic materialism were my favorite. This book was not an easy read, but I will definitely keep it for reference.
His goal in the book was essentially to refute Nazism by refuting nationalism, but time has rendered the first part of that objective essentially superfluous -- for instance, the chapters where he attacks the variety of racial theories that were current at the time are occasionally interesting but rather dated -- and his arguments on the second head are not always entirely persuasive, largely because of their maximalist nature.
I'd be perfectly willing to believe that Muslim Spain and ancient Greece were culturally superior to Christian Spain and ancient Rome due to the fact that the former were less centralized and absolutist than the latter, but trying to cast the latter as cultural wastelands just seems too extreme.
The beginning chapters are inevitably repetitive as Rocker establishes his socialist libertarian point of view.."monstrous crimes of the state", "living under the murderous yoke of..".
The power to make, create by labour - that is, culture - is the resource that capitalists and the state work together to harvest for the benefit of their own minority groups, and nationalism is categorically a tool to that end.
Simply the fact of a German writing an anarchist history of the world in Yiddish during the run-up to WWII makes it worth reading. Some of his history is stretched thin, relying on secondary sources to make arguments that he wants to make, rather than arguments called for by the facts (such as his history of the Inca empire).
This book was well received by Albert Einstein and Thomas Mann. It is unfortunately out of print, but free e-copies are available, as it is well worth reading for his critiques of statism and religion.
a critique of nationalism from the anarchist perspective. Written during the buildup of the Nazi regime in Germany
Sometimes downright wickedly funny, which is not what one would expect. It's detailed in research and very convincing.
