https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30123368-my-blood-approves
Naturally, Alice feels all warm and fuzzy.The next day we meet Milo, the younger brother who is a great cook and the mother, who is never around.
*grins*The rest of the book is pretty much about how everybody adores Alice, (geez, it's getting really embarrassing now, even for her) how hard is it to keep her orgasms in check every time she so much as thinks about Peter, while Jack is giving it's all he's got, and then suddenly she moves in and of course everybody just assumes she'll want to become a vampire.
It really felt more like I was reading a novel turned in to be work shopped in creative writing 101 - in fact my reading enjoyment would have been increased if my copy had been a badly photocopied version that I could make notes and suggestions on.But the jig is up, the fun is over, Elvis has left the building, add another cliche here - I'm still determined to read, but it's going to be interrupted by the next good book/website/cat that catches my eye - as it seems I am now trapped in the middle and the enjoyably bland narrator is crying ALL THE TIME.
That is getting ridiculous, and embarrassing.Edited@24/07/2016: Thoughts before finish reading the whole book:I've read 150+ pages into My Blood Approves but absolutely nothing has happened, all I've gotten so far is the Plain Jane main girl Alice's monologues which bored me into tear (who wants to read a teenager girl's monologues when the thoughts in her mind makes her sound like a dull 8 years old?) and the long, useless description of the irresistible male vampires and their irresistible perfection.
Well, I guess Hocking tries, but I can't help but feel like my detective skills are being severely underestimated.
I'm very insulted if she thinks my idea of a good book is to be clenching my teeth and yelling, "OMGZZZ HE IS A FUCKING VAMPIRE I GET THE HINTS CAN WE MOVE ON PLEASEEEEEEEEEEE?"This might have worked back then when Dracula was still a novelty, but this "suspense" only works now for real, unconventional monsters.
Like in Rick Yancey's books.
Sheesh."Suspense" aside, it doesn't help that Alice's life revolves around Jack, much like Bella's (and even then she had Jacob as a distraction.
After years of meaning to read this series and never quite getting around to it, I'm finally getting around to it.
I was overall entertained by this story - snappy remarks, snazzy mythos - but sometimes the plot stalled out due to characters hedging around need-to-know info well-past the point of secrecy.
The back and forth bordered on filler, which frustrated me since I feel certain central characters were underdeveloped and a lot was left unexplained in the metaphysical department.
Nonetheless, I felt this is a solid and mostly fun start for a series and am interested to see how it pans out eventually.
I read the first couple of pages. Alice and her friend Jane are chased by four big burly men and are rescued by another guy, then they decide that it's OK to get into the car of a complete stranger because he saved them from being raped or killed.Apparently a rescue is the new sweets from a stranger.I'm sorry, it just made me LOL. Not for me.
Teenager Alice Bonham's life feels crazy after she meets Jack.
Jack and Peter are vampires, and Alice finds herself caught between love and her own blood.
He's also a stalker, a pedophile, a pansy, and just plain annoying.Alice's brother Milo is an okay character, but I just wish he’d act more like a fourteen year old.
Well, I don't have a brother and my two younger sisters and I aren't really close, so I don't know, but I think that there should be limits somewhere.
I originally thought that the price would speak for itself but it completely surprised me and now I have no idea why Amazon are selling it so cheap!
I LOVED this story.
I loved the way it gripped me all the way through - I loved the characters and I loved the way the author did not just stick to an original love triangle.
I felt the story was unique and it left me cheering for both TEAM JACK & TEAM PETER!
This book has a fantastic story line and is a definite must for anyone who is into the supernatural romance.
the funny thing about this book, is that it is almost an exact replica of twilight, yet soo much better. and thats saying something because this book sucks.:p there's no goody goody edward/bella in this one, and there is a better sense of humor,, and thats why it gets two stars,, aha(:
I admire her energy and self-starter mentality--she's basically made herself into a cottage industry worth millions now, after a handful of paranormal romance novels.
Neither Hocking nor Meyers seems particularly interested in challenging traditional, boring-ass gender roles, and they both trade shamelessly on the tiredest vampire and romance-heroine cliches.
So, while I appreciate Hocking's entrepreneurship and her apparently blase attitude to being wooed by the publishing industry now that she's selling millions of her books, I can only wish that I lived in a world where this crap wouldn't sell a single copy, and books like Bell's would fly off the shelves.
Let me sum this book up with a Douglas Adams quote:"For a moment, nothing happened. Then, after a second or so, nothing continued to happen."
$0.99 at Amazon: 13 DEC 2015I realized I never wrote a review for this and I think I added it right when I first joined Goodreads.
Seeing as none of my friends have a review up for this, I thought I'd leave a quick one.I read this either right after or right before reading Twilight for the first time.
It was right up my alley at that time.
I don't know if I'd still like it, but at the time, I read the whole series back to back and couldn't get enough.
Most people won't believe me when I say this, and some might even think I'm an idiot for saying it!
I liked this book way more than Twilight!
I found Alice to be so much more tolerable than the ever annoying Bella Swan.
She meets Jack and she doesn't turn into a complete blubbering fool for starters.Jack is an awesome character as well.
I just really liked all of the characters in this book.
Kad sam već kod toga, dopustite mi jednu malu digresiju - Kako ćete prepoznati lošu knjigu o vampirima koju je napisala neka jadna debeljuca u kasnim dvadesetim ili srednjovječna kućanica koja želi zadaviti svoje troje djece i muža?
Da, pročitala sam i drugu knjigu, Fate, i pola treće, Flutter.Priča ide ovako - sedamnaestogodišnju Alice napadnu neki loši momci jedno veče dok se vraćala kući sa svojom najboljom prijateljicom Jane (koja je sve osim najbolja, ali naša Alice pati od manjka samopouzdanja, pa se zato druži sa Jane kojoj je vrhunac provoda dobiti trovanje alkoholom i seks s bilo kojim dostupnim momkom dok je prijateljica strpljivo čeka).
I don’t really like the fact that she was willing to throw her whole life away just to be part of Jack and Peter’s family, but she carried the story well and was pretty likeable.
I am very eager to see where she takes the story and these great characters in the rest of the series.Amanda Hocking offers a great new voice in the mish-mash of young adult vampire books.
My Blood Approves had everything from great, realistic characters to an enchanting writing style and unique new story.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone who is looking for a great new story that will take your breath away and never let you put it down.
Ich würde diesem Buch so gerne mehr Sterne geben, weil ich mich im voraus so darauf gefreut habe, aber das wäre nicht gerechtfertigt. Die Story und der Schreibstil an sich sind ok und das Buch nett für zwischendurch, allerdings gab es doch ziemlich viele Kritikpunkte. Kaum Spannung, seeeehr vorhersehbare Handlung und absolut unrealistisch handelnde Protagonisten. Die Protagonistin erlebt einige gefährliche Situationen, reagiert aber so, als hätte sie gerade eine Mücke gestochen und wäre nicht knapp mit dem Leben davon gekommen. Keinerlei Emotionen, alles nur sehr oberflächlich und absolut unauthentisch.
Una mezcla entre Crepúsculo y Cazadores de sombra. Narración mala, relaciones forzadas, personajes estereotipados y tontos, giros predecibles, situaciones ridículas, comentarios despreciativos y machistas. Toda una joyita del género paranormal *sarcasmo*
Ganz nett für Zwischendurch. Hat mich super unterhalten und ich mache direkt weiter mit Band zwei. 😁
Jane and the waitress are all over the guy (Jack), but (of course), he only has eyes for Alice (this scene really reminded me of a similar scene in Twilight)."There was something about him that made me trust him implicitly."She hears him laugh: "Somehow, it warmed me through and through, and I realized that I would trust him with anything.""But sitting here, in the booth with him, nothing had ever felt more natural or safe.
"You were bit, but there’s hardly a wound, and-and you have like super human strength and… everything in the whole world wants to have sex with you and… you don’t have a temperature!" I spouted.
But if Peter doesn't want to, there’s always Jack.
She’s in high school now, has happily jumped on the Twilight bandwagon, and has a love for YA Paranormal novels, which seems to be the primary genre on my to-read list.
Plus, despite the rather campy name the book cover is quite lovely to look at.My Blood Approves follows Alice Bonham, a 17 year old girl who has a rather blah outlook on life.
In swoops our soon to be hero, Jack, a good looking but not too attractive 24 year old man driving a fancy car ready to save the day!Okay, let me just say that for the first half of the book, I was rather put off.
Compré este libro porque la portada de llamó mucho la atención y me habían dicho que era muy bueno.
Lo único que me gusta de los libros de vampiros es la manera en que los presentan.
La trama es un 50% predecible, monótona y de las 319 paginas que tiene, creo que sólo me llegaron a gustar unas 50.
Oh, genial, resulta que está rodeada de vampiros.
Esto es lo que hace que sea un personaje divertido.
Creo que la escritora pudo haber hecho demasiado con esto para que fuese bueno.
I wanted to like it...I really did but when someone takes so much story-line from other writers and then throws in redundancy, poor grammar and spelling I can't take it.
Its like a bad fan-fiction version of The Vampire Diaries and Twilight.
Then you throw in the love triangle and dialogue that nearly matches The Vampire Diaries and Twilight and I thought I was going to vomit.
I love when other writers find inspiration in other works and maybe even allude to that work...but just outright taking plot lines and slightly twisting it doesn't just make me sick, it makes me bored!
There were times in the book I had no idea who was speaking, which can be very frustrating.
At first they are drawn to each other but not in a sexual way, which they repeat several times throughout the book.
When Jack introduces Alice to his “family”, she is instantly attracted to his “younger brother”, Peter, who is extremely rude and mean to her.
Then we are thrown into a love triangle between Peter, Alice and Jack.
Personally I wouldn’t recommend this book.
.
What Alice doesn't know is Jack has secrets, and those secrets are the things that can go bump in the night.My Blood Approves by Amanda Hocking is a quick little YA read, and it's...
These few minuscule errors took nothing away from the book, I'm not a perfectionist or a purist, what matters to me is a story that I can fall into, with characters I want to get to know, and Alice, Jack, Peter, Mae, Ezra, and little brother Milo, drew me in.
She was the normal run-of-the-mill teen girl until everything changed, after a late night encounter of the vampire kind, when Jack saved her from an unwelcome encounter with a group of male would-be attackers.How about we start with the bad?To be honest, from the outset I was a bit put off by the heavy Twilight vibes this story was giving off; A young woman saved from an unpleasant group of men by a young guy of the fanged variety?
To be honest it initially felt as though I was reading a Twilight fan fiction.Another thing that got me right from the start was some of Hocking's use of language, in certain places words just seemed awkward.
Por cualquier cosa deja que pase todo, ni siquiera mueve un dedo o dice algo.Es totalmente ignorante a todo, prefiere convertirse en vampiro solamente porque OH, PETER, OH, JACK y lo más sorprendente de todo, ¡piensa suicidarse porque no puede vivir sin una familia de vampiros!
Realmente no entiendo cómo pude terminar este libro.Más perrita faldera de Peter y creo que le tuvieron que poner un collar.Jack: Oh Jack, realmente no me gusto, me molesto bastante, ¿una mentalidad de bebé pero en un cuerpo de veinte años?
I did feel like smacking the main character several times.
So once again although it bugged me a bit it certainly didn't make me hate the book or anything.Most of the characters were pretty good but I really liked Alice's brother, Milo.
I also liked Jack and thought that his personality was pretty great.
I just didn't know where it was going until pretty far into the book.
Overall I enjoyed the story and things that may be considered 'mistakes' or 'poor editing' didn't take away from the overall feel of the book.
I'm actually quite anxious to read the next book!
Hum... I do like it but the vampires are not my type (only ever night vampires ;)) The book was really good and i really like Amanda's writing she has a lot of talent. But vampires are really not my type.
I would have never picked it up (I know don't judge a book by it's cover) if a friend hadn't have suggested it and loaned it to me on Kindle.Let's start with the things I didn't like so we can end on a good note.
Also those references don't hold up, my motto is write timelessly or your book has a short shelf life before seeming dated and weird.
And if we're being honest the writing isn't the best.Now the good- the story improved as it went on and the author found her stride somewhat.
