https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424283.Men_Among_the_Ruins
Another excellent book by Evola, and quite interesting since it deals with the post-war period, and the failure of the totalitarian Fascism and Nazism. A guide for the few 'men among the ruins' (of everything after 1789/French Revolution).
Let's say one star for the feasibility and desirability of implementing these ideas, and three stars for the fascinating experience of reading such an uncompromisingly extreme philosophy presented so eloquently.
Evola writes as if the kind of regimented, "organic" hierarchical society that he advocates actually existed at some time in the past.
Perhaps Evola saw his ideal society as something that only existed in some astral or ethereal state, prior to the messy vagaries of our human, all-too-human world.
But reading such an intelligent presentation of such outlandish ideas makes for an otherworldly experience, if nothing else.
Evola critiques the modern world with traditional standards. Magnificent companion to Revolt Against the Modern World', which should be read first.
A brilliant critique of capitalism, economics and the modern world system from the political right.
Evola's only failings are his occasional slip into racism, and sexism - though I'd be remiss to call him xenophobic - his views are complex and a reflection of his time.
While his call for an imperium is perhaps off the mark, his analysis of the spiritual death of the modern world since the Enlightenment and the French Revolution is poignant.
Evola's analysis is sharp, barbing, and clear.
Evola is best left exploring the esoteric aspects of spirituality rather than publishing the same analyses as found by Guenon before him. This book has many redeeming aspects, yet also is very dry in many chapters. An uneven consistency is found throughout the book leaving it hard to mentally absorb.
Да и по сути его книг, тот же Блок, всё сжато и лаконично сформулировал в первой главе Возмездия Но тот, кто двигал, управляяМарионетками всех стран, -Тот знал, что делал, насылаяГуманистический туман:Там, в сером и гнилом тумане,Увяла плоть, и дух погас,И ангел сам священной брани,Казалось, отлетел от нас:Там - распри кровные решаютДипломатическим умом,Там - пушки новые мешаютСойтись лицом к лицу с врагом,Там - вместо храбрости - нахальство,А вместо подвигов - "психоз",И вечно ссорится начальство,И длинный громоздко'й обозВоло'чит за собой команда,Штаб, интендантов, грязь кляня,Рожком горниста - рог РоландаИ шлем - фуражкой заменя...
Great book, especially because Evola takes a few blows at the conventional Right of today, that focuses on "quantity based solutions" to European problems, particularly the demographic or national solution. The chapter on "Occult War" is also great, as is his analysis of the Protocols. If you want to get further acquainted with Evola's political thoughts, this book, together with Pagan Imperialism, is the best way to do it.
هنا يأتي إيفولا في كتاب آخر ليعلن الحرب هذه المرة بشكل صريح عن كل الأفكار التي ظهرت بعد الثورة الفرنسية، بعد قراءة كتاب ثورة ضد العالم الحديث لن تجد خيرا من هذا الكتاب حتى تتزود لعدوك الذي يتجلى في الحداثة بالمعرفة اللازمة لمواجهته، يناقش فيه ايفولا التوتاليتارية والفاشية والماركسية مع مواضيع أخرى من وجهة نظر تقليدية، كتاب جد رائع.
The most absurd case of this is when he tries to differentiate between hierarchism and support for hierarchy.And then there are things where I just disagree with him and think he could have justified his position better as when he describes the natures of different nations and ethnicities, when he talks about the relation between sex and procreation or when he claims that a union of Europe under traditionalist principles is not possible, but I will not further analyze those issues here.I still admire Evola as a person and I will come back to him sometimes in the future, but I was very disappointed by this particular work, I hope his other books are more like Revolt Against the Modern World.
It started off badly, tailed off a little in the middle, and the less said about the end the better. But other than that, excellent.
Decent analysis of modernity; noteworthy defense of warrior-ascetic values against liberal democrats.
