https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59835.Summer_s_End
This was a quick read for me on a road trip.
Alas, as always, we find some very well to do adults, a marriage that has stayed together, and a husband that's not nice.
Then of course a wife that finds the love of her life, they come together for a passionate while, then end up apart.
They should be together and she makes the selfless decision to stay apart.
But will that be the end?!
Pilar was a cute name I liked, I like coming across quirky names.
This DS is one I'm sure die hard fans will love.
I just finished this book for the 3rd time and I want to start it over again. I LOVE this book! This book makes me want to take my sketch paper and charcoal pencils on a road trip to Carmel and bask away in the sun and leisure time. This is probably my favorite Danielle Steel book and she really did well with the raw feelings and setting description. You really and truly feel for these characters! You'll not want to put the book down!
When banality becomes amusing. Some good theories about why French people are so stupid and mean. Another thrilling production by the Steel factory. Another beautiful and suffering heroine, another handsome man. Both wealthy but modest, beautiful but not superficial, smart and sensible. And of course BIG LOVE. Enjoy, it's like a supermarket cupcake - a decent industrial comfort food.
I read this book on my flight from North Carolina to San Jose. It was a very easy read as I finished when I landed at my layover in Las Vegas. More of a love story and drama.
The reason that I didn't like this book to well was for one simple reason.
Then Deanna meets Ben and they fall in love.
Finds out her husband has been cheating on her for god knows how long.
So she leaves the husband  finally  and lives on her own.
But the worst part of this book is?
(view spoiler)[ she doesn't take Ben back, right away, even though he said he'll take her back.
This book just really flopped for me.
It's a quick and easy read so if you're okay with that, then maybe this book is for you.
i just remembered that i read this book after trying to think of all the books i read when i was younger.
at first i could only remember the premise and the ending but then i remembered the author and looked through her books and found it.
i don't really know how to rate it since i read it at least 2 or 3 years ago, so i'm just gonna give it 3 stars because i remember enjoying and hating it at the same time.
my thirteen year old self (??) didn't really know what to think of it i guess.
this is one of steele's best books!
Enjoyed this, when I read it, but not one of my favourite by the author.
It seemed over all the message this book was attempting to make was that you're never to old to go after what makes you happy.
But in the end it really came across as - you're never to old to do what makes you happy as long as you look young.There is one thing I could definitely not understand in this book which was (SPOILER ALERT!) the unbelievably short mourning period for her daughter!
This, more than anything else, ruined the book for me.I would say the most redeeming thing about this book is that (SPOILER ALERT!)in the end she leaves her controlling, emotionally abusive, cheating husband.
The story is about a woman, called Deanne Duras, who is a talented painter, without knowing it herself, who is married to a rich elderly lawyer, who is often away for business, and keeps a 2nd ménage with a young french girl who accompanies him on his trips.
During the 3-month vacation, Deanne meets a gallery owner, who convinces her to show her work, and she gets involved with him.The book reads very smoothly and is fine for complexless and relaxing summer reading, but it's all too predictable and Danielle Steel's eternal stories about beautiful and rich people are at times annoying me very much.
I like Danielle Steel books but have not read one in a long time, and this one was definitely worth the wait.
It is one of those books that once you get into it, you can't read it quickly enough, you just want to get to the next page and see what is going to happen.
Within the first few pages it is easy to see what a good book this is, and, which is unusual for these types of books but also quite nice, there is more left to the imagination than is put in print.The good part that I found was that by about halfway through the book you can see something that is happening that hasn't been told but you just have to wait and see if you are right until almost the end.
An entertaining book with unexpected plot twists. There were parts, though, that two people would banter back and forth and then bring the topic up again and maybe a third time. These pages were tedious. I recommend this book.
This was my first shot at a Danielle Steele novel. It's definitely one long, complicated yet satisfying love story.
رواية أكثر من رائعة. أحداثها صعبة التوقع. تشدّ القارئ لمعرفة ما سيحدث. أنا سعيدة بالنهاية، و"شمتانة" بمارك!
A roller coaster ride of love, romance, betrayal and love again....
I read this book from 1-16-09 till 1-19-09.
Jednostavno odlična! Dirnula mi je dušu i potpuno me obuzela! Uživala sam u svakoj stranici. Definitivno ide u sam vrh mojih favorita.
very good
To me it was such a beautiful love story and Deanna had had so much heartaches in her 37 years!Now upon rereading as an adult approaching middle age, it does not sit well with me that Deanna was an adulteress.
Marc was a bastard; it didn't matter he cheated first and kept on lying and lying...but two wrongs don't make a right.My slightly younger self would have been very self righteous and condemn Ben and Deanna's behaviour.
Ben was everything Marc was not: loving, supportive and respectful of Deanna as a woman and artist.
With Ben's love Deanna finally grew into her own independent woman.
I loved this book! It was so good. I loved the characters, and it really gave a good insight into marriage, especially a marriage where a husband travels a lot and for long periods of time......It was a book that I could easily pick up again in 10 years and re-read it! A lot of Danielle Steel's earlier books have been like that for me! I absolutely loved this one!
(c)1979 Deanna marries young but realizes that after having a daughter there is no love or romance left. A husband that leaves months at a time and a daughter who attends school elsewhere leaves Deanna feeling very alone and lonely. The genre brings about romance, mistrust, friendship and struggling to find oneself.
I have been skeptical about Danielle Steel, although I've read some of her books and they were entertaining.
I still did not get the same feel as Jackie Collins from the previous books that I read, but decided to them more of a try.
Danielle Steele sets the stage and captures your interest right away.
The characters are extremely memorable and the setting is charming and dream-like.
I was totally swept up in the story and I feel like I know the characters personally.
I got so wrapped up in the book that I don't want it to end and don't want to start another novel because I want "Summer's End" to go on.
Невероятна любовна драма, преплитаща истинската любов с изневярата... Случайна среща на плажа с човек, който се оказва любовта на живота ти... И случайно срещнат човек, който променя живота ти завинагиГ. Г Диана, Бен, Марк, Шантал
It was a nice read.
أول تجربة لي مع الكاتبه,ولن تكون الأخيره بإذن الله .. فلقد وجدت نفسي قريبة من أبطال الروايه,وإستمتعت بها ❤
A nice book
This was a very touching story about loss and finding true love. It was a real pleasure to read and I would highly recommend it.
PredictableDanielle Steele always provided a really good read even if the outcome is predictable. I always fall in love with her characters.
Really great read, one character got me angry at times.
i like her older books like this
