https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43944.Suite_Fran_aise
Most of the upper class members of the village, farmers, land owners etc., had to house the officers of the German army at the same time their husbands, sons, and brothers were being held as prisoners of war someplace else.
Nemirovsky manages to weave in a few of the characters from Storm into the story but the overall pace and feeling is much slower and calmer (ah....dolce!) The slower tempo and close proximity force many of the French to look at the Germans as humans rather than simply soldiers.
Némirovsky was a successful writer living in Paris when the Germans invaded France in 1940.
Némirovsky actually planned a total of five novels, designed to mirror a musical suite, which would total approximately 1,000 pages.
The story involves four separate groups of characters, forced to flee Paris ahead of the oncoming German Army.
Némirovsky believed that France had forsaken her, and she clearly uses Suite Francaise to lay blame.
(While I did not quite enjoy Dolce, I did find it amazing that Némirovsky could conjure such humanity for her German characters.
That alone makes it a special document, and I started reading it mainly because the circumstances of its creation fascinated me - in a heartbreaking way.The novel itself is of unique brilliance, of acute observation, a prelude to the darkest hours in the Second World War, a study of humanity living through a universal stress test, not knowing that the worst is still ahead.
The novel ends with the departure of the German soldiers who are ordered to move to the Eastern front, and their life in France seems almost idyllic with hindsight, knowing what awaits them.
So the war moves to the East, and one of its victims is the author of this unbelievable, yet incredibly realistic account of France under the yoke of German occupation.
This is an unfinished work by a Russian-French author who died in Auschwitz before she could complete what she was hoping would be a novel-opus written in the style of a piece of music.
*On a side note, I experienced a strange realization while reading this by finding out that the suburb of Paris where my girlfriend's grandmother lives, Drancy, is the site of a former concentration camp.*This gives a fascinatingly detailed account of life during the French Occupation as it was happening through the eyes of a formerly (but that has never been known to stop Nazis) Jewish woman.
The lives of those she describes are lives interrupted during war, whether it be French peasants or young, highly incompetent German soldiers in way over their heads.
It is divided into two separate parts: "Storm in June" relates the mass exodus by those many different individuals leaving Paris--the puppetry of all the characters is what's so terrific in the novel (Nemirovsky can pick out different people from different classes with such ease and art...
But the second part, which DOES relate a romance between a Frenchwoman and (gasp!) a German soldier, makes the whole really, truly uneven (entitled "Dolce," that second part was often found to be more "Dull-ce").
just like that, many stories were left unfinished.
MUST READ! MUST READ! Wonderful unfinished novel by famous Jewish French author... Interesting story is behind publication of this novel... The manuscript stayed in a box for decades because the daughters of the author thought it is diary... but it was not... One of my favourite novels and I am proud that I was its Serbian editor... :) U Srbiji je knjigu objavila Laguna... predivna knjiga... veoma dirljiva...
“Tolone S/Arroux 13 luglio 1942 - ore 5 [scritta a matita e non obliterata] “Copro di baci le mie bambine adorate, e che la mia Denise faccia sempre la brava...
E questa credo sia la più grande lezione che un libro possa offrire, il più grande regalo che uno scrittore possa fare ai suoi lettori: se stesso.
La corrispondenza che chiude il libro è stata per me la parte più toccante.
“ Giovedì mattina - luglio '42 - Pithiviers [scritta a matita e non obliterata] Mio amato, mie piccole adorate, credo che partiamo oggi.
Nemirovsky shows a sympathy for basic human responses, even if those reactions are abhorrent to common values and sentiments.The book also portrayed a part of history, the German invasion and occupation of France, that I didn't know much about besides the hard facts - how people fled Paris only to be killed on the roads and villages by German bombs, the guilt of French people who chose to collaborate with the Germans in order to survive.
Suite Francaise was a book that I wasn't sure about until I started to read it, and got swept up in the story, the characters, and Nemirovsky's merciless eye for human grace and ridiculousness, often both encapsulated in the same moments.
The book covers the surrender of Paris, and the later occupation of a small town by the Germans, in two discrete sections, although a few characters bridge the gap.
Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Her sympathetic characters are the Michauds, Jean-Marie Michaud, Lucile, the young engaged couple fleeing from Paris on their wedding day, Bruno (the German soldier staying with Lucille's family), Madeleine (to some extent), and Hubert (after he rejects the hypocrisy and privilege of his class).I should note I really did appreciate Némirovsky's ability to describe the hypocrisies of her characters through the various perspectives of her other characters.
This actually makes it a little more difficult to pin down the author's own feelings toward others.I'd be curious to read Némirovsky's other works to see how she paints the classes as a general rule, but if they're not more interesting books than Suite Française, I think I'll skip.
I'm not sure which is more eerie: that this is a posthumous novel, or that the author knew it would be a posthumous novel; that had it not been for her daughters who carried it around as a notebook, this novel would not have surfaced, or that the book gave a vivid snapshot of the exodus from Paris which mother and daughters were experiencing at that moment; that her husband was killed for inquiring about his missing famous-writer wife, or that her daughters were then hunted down by the same madmen; that the daughters lost both their parents, or that their own grandmother refused to take them in after they knocked at her door in desperation?I've read many war novels but this is the first I have seen really capture the immediacy of the despondency of exiles.
(perhaps this is part of my struggle - it felt almost like a short story rather than a full novel)I struggled most with the first book which were stories about people (families, singles, employers and employees) fleeing Paris following the defeat of the French army by the Germans.
The entire time I read I/it felt pointless - perhaps this was the point of the story, fleeing one danger into another, one tragedy into another, one potential death into a different death.
(Ok maybe it's not just somber, it's DARK)The second book followed a village occupied by the German troops.
Il tutto mentre sorseggi il tuo caffè, con le gambe calde dal contatto col termosifone.Irène Némirovsky ci regala uno spaccato di mondo eterogeneo e completo, attraverso le parole del suo romanzo, che noi beatamente leggiamo nel calduccio dei nostri letti prima di addormentarci.Il trionfo di questo romanzo, non è guardare il mondo da un oblò, ma avere la certezza che è rappresentato veramente tutto il mondo, tutte le sfumature possibili dell'umanità.La distanza storica dal momento in cui viene scritto un libro, a volte ci rende incapaci di capire a pieno il contesto e le ragioni che muovono lo scrittore a volerne lasciare un ricordo; distanza che qua viene completamente annullata dalla sapiente mano di un'autrice estremamente lucida, se si tiene conto che scrisse quest'opera, nel momento stesso in cui viveva i drammi di cui tutti sappiamo l'entità..
The book is an album, a collection of portraits where the well-drawn characters happen to live in highly dangerous and volatile times.I loved the subtle, evocative prose and the quiet, introspective quality of the writing, which contrasts with the turmoil caused by the war.
The characters are not clichés or caricatures; they felt three-dimensional, real and genuine people.The author own story and her personal correspondence, which are included in the appendixes, were heart-breaking to read.
Only the person who has observed men and women at times like this, she thought, can be said to know them.People who always pay the price and the only ones who are truly noble.
"(...)Leite negro da madrugada bebemos-te de noitebebemos-te ao meio-dia a morte é um mestre que veio da Alemanhabebemos-te ao entardecer e pela manhã bebemos e bebemosa morte é um mestre que veio da Alemanha azuis são os teus olhosatinge-te com bala de chumbo acerta-te em cheio(...)"Paul Celan - "Fuga da Morte" Suite Francesa foi concebido como um romance em cinco partes:1. Tempestade 2. Dolce3. Cativeiro 4. Batalhas5. A Paz,com cerca de mil páginas, tendo como base a estrutura dos quatro andam
É a parte mais comovente porque relata o desespero e sofrimento das pessoa para salvarem as suas vidas e dos seus entes queridos, abandonando todos os bens materiais.“Nessa noite, só tinha valor aquilo que vivia, aquilo que respirava, chorava e amava!
No final do romance, foram incluídos dois grupos de anexos: um com excertos do caderno de Irène onde constam os planos de escrita de Suite Francesa; outro com alguma correspondência, entre a qual a última carta de Irène para a família, datada de 13 de julho de 1942:"Meu querido amado, minhas pequenas adoradas, creio que partimos hoje.
La grandezza della scrittrice sta nel far entrare il dramma della guerra nell’animo del lettore con parole dolci, sommesse e pacate, con la descrizione di una natura gaia e pronta all’esplosione dell’estate nei colori e nei profumi, con la giocondità dei giochi infantili dei bimbi francesi che vivono ingenuamente l’occupazione tedesca, con le emozioni del cuore di uomini e donne che, senza distinzione di provenienza, siano francesi che vivono in miseria, siano tedeschi che soffrono la nostalgia di casa, si riscoprono ricchi nell’animo.
Irene Nemirovsky was a Russian Jew who became exiled from Russia at a young age & had lived in France for many years by the outbreak of the Second World War. Despite being a well-known writer, she was never granted French citizenship.
The older daughter, Denise, hid the manuscript of Suite Francaise in a suitcase as they were fleeing the village where they’d lived before her father’s arrest.
What happens when an attractive, charming, intelligent German officer comes to live with Lucile, whose husband is a prisoner of war but Lucile didn’t like him much to begin with, and Lucile’s mother-in-law?
Only the person who has observed men and women at times like this can be said to know them.
It chronicles the lives of various peoples; from all walks of life, as they come to terms with the harsh realites of their homes and country being conquested, occupied, and the fact that none of their lives will ever be the same again.I loved this book so much it is almost painful.
Kindness, cruelty, selfishness, generosity, loving, hateful; all of these characteristics rise up out of each character like a beacon to their soul, and you get to know them in ways that you wouldn't ordinarily.
The two novellas included here are the only two completed out of the five that she had planned.The first, Storm in June, introduces us to the characters as we follow them during the exodus from Paris, fleeing from the German occupiers.
I loved the way she started to introduce back characters from the first story, with the rest of the novellas clearly in mind.
At the end of the book the first appendix consists of her notes and we get some idea from these as to how she saw the global story developing.
War brings out the best and worst in people and during the chaotic flight out of Paris (to which most of those who fled simply returned a week or two later) we see examples of great generosity and sharing but also people stealing food and gasoline from each other.
A playwright, a banker and an antiques dealer provide some of the worst examples of selfish behavior.
The ghosts of the prior French-German wars in 1914 and in the 1870’s come up so much they are like a character in the novel.
I say strangely because the author and her husband were Catholics of Jewish ancestry.
أنا إنسانة أولاً وكاتبة ثم مواطنة فرنسية مخلصة..صدفة الولادات جعلتني أحمل على جبهتي مسمى "يهودية"..ولكنها ليست صدفة بريئة للنازيين وهتلر والجيش الألماني الذي أحتل بلدي فرنسا قبل أسبوعين.. سيعتقلني الألمان قريبا.. ولذلك أريد إنهاء هذه الرواية بسرعة..هي رواية تحمل ما أريد آن آقوله عن جنون وكفر وهمجية الإنسان وقت الحرب..وأيضا تقول الكثير عن حبه وحنانه وعطفه.... مرت ٦٥ سنة، واكتشفت إبنة الكاتبة نسخة رثة هي الوحيدة من هذه الرواية، نشرتها البنت وهي تبكي ذكرى والدتها التي حرقها الآلمان في معكسرات الإعتقال في الحرب العالمية الثانية
I’m giving this high rating not to the book itself -which was, sadly, left unfinished and reads like a first draft- but to what the book could have obviously been –an undying masterpiece about France under the Nazi occupation.
But the author –a Russian Jew who emigrated to France- died in Auschwitz during WW2, so this possible magnum opus was left unfinished.
The fact that it is and will stay forever unfinished shouldn’t discourage anyone from reading it because, at its core, it is an epic view on the quivering of the human nature.
» Lucile, in spite of herself, slowed her pace : she could not stop seeing that hand large and fine, its long fingers (she imagined them holding a black heavy revolver or a machine gun or a grenade, or any weapon that brought death with indifference), she contemplated that green uniform (how many French soldiers, during their night watches, had spied in the darkness of the underwood the appearance of similar uniform…) and those shining boots … The door had long since closed behind the officer ; Lucile had followed her mother-in-law; she had entered the church; she had knelt at her bench, but she could not forget the enemy… “Let us say a rosary for Gaston, mother.”It’s worthwhile, I think, mentioning the romantic relationships between the French village women and the German men that are depicted in Part 2.
Pongono l'individuo di fronte a sé stesso, e il Sé Stesso a confronto con gli altri, tutti; nell'anarchia imprevedibile che segna ogni sopravvivenza.
Prende per mano, con un garbo assassino, e conduce in una sorta di "ogni tempo", comune ai grandi romanzi.
Pagine di diario dell'autrice; note a margine della composizione; epistolario, e una nitida postfazione, raccontano della vita sfortunata e intensa di questa donna europea del '900; dei destini rocamboleschi del manoscritto (pubblicato solo nel 2004 e divenuto, subito, un grande successo editoriale); di una pagina inqualificabile della storia del '900, quale quella del nazismo.
Es una pena que no descubramos todo lo que Némirovsky tenía en su mente para darnos. Sencillamente brillante.
In this current era of racism and hatred, of blacklisting people with Middle Eastern names and persecuting Muslims for the actions of a small, violent off-shoot who barely follow Islam at all, Suite Française is poignantly relevant, timely, and worth heeding.Another thing to note that isn't usual in books about war is that you won't learn anything about WWII from this book - not about troop movements, about dates or treaties or who's fighting whom and where.
What we have here, Storm and Dolce, amount to two novellas.What is interesting about these books is that they are written by someone living the events almost in real time, but they are not a diary, but a very well structured fictional work.
If you read this book, be sure to read the short Appendix I - which contains notes by the author on events and on her plotted of the novel.
E.g.:"The French grew tired of the Republic as if she were an old wife.
Nonostante ciò questo libro merita la più grande attenzione: oltre ad essere concepito in modo magistrale, infatti, è anche un evento letterario del tutto singolare in quanto, pur essendo stato scritto in contemporanea con i fatti di cui si argomenta, è esente da ogni presa di posizione ideologica o morale Protagonista indiscussa è la vita, questo fenomeno unico e indefinibile fatto di miserie e meschinità, ma anche di forza e bellezza.
Gli avvenimenti storici fanno soltanto da sfondo alle storie private dei personaggi e l’orrore della guerra, della violenza e della morte è sempre stemperato dallo splendore di tutto ciò che è vivo, palpitante, nella natura e nell’uomo.
La prima parte mi è piaciuta più della seconda, ho trovato davvero eccellente la descrizione dell'esodo da Parigi, sia per quanto riguarda l'avvenimento storico in sé che per la caratterizzazione dei personaggi, che è egregia in entrambe le parti del romanzo. È incredibile pensare che questo romanzo sia incompiuto, perché, se è vero che la storia certamente non finisce, è altrettanto vero che quello che abbiamo il privilegio di leggere possiede una grazia e una perfezione tali da far sembrare quasi inverosimile che l'autrice ci stesse ancora lavorando.
This book was intended by the author a great opus to the lives of the French during the occupation of World War II, a kind of War and Peace.
She describes the innate selfishness of people trying to flourish and survive during world war II.
In the second part of the book “Dolce”, Némirovsky humanises the Germans as not just the enemy but as boys and men living among them (the French) and no different than the French conquerors in Germany after the first War.The novel also tells of how life goes on despite war and tragedy.
