https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/979379.James_Monroe
Though published over forty years ago, it is easy to see at a glance why Ammon's biography of James Monroe has never been bettered.
Ammon goes through Monroe's life with a thoroughness that makes this a book an excellent source of information about Monroe, but at the price of making it an excruciatingly dull read at times.
If you want to know everything there is to know about Monroe's political career or about diplomacy in the Federalist Era, then this is your book; otherwise, I would recommend either Noble Cunningham's The Presidency of James Monroe or Gary Hart's short James Monroe in the "American Presidents" series.
He may be a difficult subject around whom to wrap an exciting narrative; Ammon seems to have figured this out and avoided the attempt.Instead, the author paints a picture of Monroe as a man who, like Washington, was less well-educated (at least formally) than other famous politicians of his era and relied on what we consider “street smarts” and personal likability to succeed.
And because I never developed a keen sense of who Monroe was as a person (excepting the author’s excellent description of Monroe as a politician) there was little to spice up the stretches of time when his political career provided little controversy or excitement.While the biography generally proceeds chronologically, Ammon choose to review Monroe’s presidency thematically.
This is probably my least favorite presidential biography so far. Ammon's sentence structure was confusing and I often I had to re-read sentences to try and figure out what he was saying. However, I did appreciate that Ammon did not "modernize" the direct quotations. I enjoyed being able to experience the original written style.
Harry Ammon tackles a tough subject in his biography of James Monroe because Monroe left scant information about his life for historians to examine.
Unlike the Adams, who were compulsive savers of correspondence and records, Monroe destroyed them routinely.We don't really get to know James Monroe, the man.
Nor do we get to know much about his wife, Elizabeth.Ammon is superb in his policy and political analysis.
This is a good book for presidential biography wonks.
Ammon comes up short in animating Monroe the man.
So Ammon can be forgiven his lack of “character development" within his biography.
A remarkably detailed account of his life as a public servant, while sadly lacking much personal detail due mostly to Monroe's own desires. My only disappointment is that Ammon wrote almost nothing about Monroe's slave ownership, despite ample opportunities to broach the subject. The book masterfully sets up the biographies of John Quincy Adams--a brilliant and loyal cabinet member, and Andrew Jackson--an eccentric and determined general; the next two American Presidents.
A very solid, informative read. It tended to be somewhat on the flattering side, but it seemed relatively objective. I learned a great deal about this period and it showed very nicely how Monroe fit into the succession of Presidents, and particularly his relationships with jefferson and madison.I'd recommend it.
Somewhat less correctly Washington believed that Monroe's subservience to France led him to sacrifice the interests of the United States" p.168 He would then go on to serve as Governor of Virginia, which was an honorable but powerless office.
The new Minister felt that the King, at the request of the Foreign Secretary, Lord Hawkesbury, had made a sincere effort to create a friendly atmosphere."p.225-6 Returning to the United States, he goes on to be Governor of Virginia again, but left soon after Robert Smith had proven to be a disappointment to President James Madison as secretary of state.
It is rather astonishing, when one considers that he fought in the Revolution under Washington, rising to the rank of Colonel, represented his constituents in the Virginia Assembly, became the Washington Administration's Minister to France, was elected Governor of Virginia, helped negotiate the Lousinan Purchase, became Minister to Britain under Jefferson, Secretary of State and Secretary of War (for a time, simultaneously) in the Madison Administration, and finally became the fifth President of the US, winning re-election by almost unanimous vote in the electoral college, and insituted what became known as the Monroe Doctrine.
Very informative, especially the part about the Monroe Doctrine and the Rise of the Giants for the election of 1824/1828, but for the most part I found the book to be slow as Monroe (A founding Father) spent his career as a diplomat and a bureaucrat. The clearest representation I had of him was when the book discussed his being elected due to being the last founding father who wanted the job and because he had worked at the highest levels of government long enough that they should just give it to him.
I liked that this book is very thorough. This book has a detailed description of the political life and accomplishments of James Monroe. His major successes were in foreign policy, including negotiation of the Louisiana Purchase. The reading can be dry at times (some of the foreign policy matters are arguably hard to make interesting), but overall the work is highly informative. You do not get much of a picture of James Monroe as a human as there is little mention of family and personal matters, though Ammon makes this disclaimer.
James Monroe: The Quest for National Identity certainly isn't the most engaging or exciting biography to read. However, not knowing much about the man going into the book, I came out with a wealth of knowledge. I think the primary raison d'être for a biography is to educate; entertainment is strictly secondary. For that, this one does the trick and shines a light on a man sadly overshadowed by others.
The scholarship is thorough, but it's dry, dry reading.
Great book. Well written. Politicians never change. Now onto JQA
The amount of research Ammon put into this undertaking was gargantuan, and it shows in an incredibly detailed, rich account of the fifth president's accomplishments in and out of office.When I started this 570 plus page book, my knowledge of Monroe was quite limited.
Monroe's role as a diplomat in France and his efforts to help Jefferson "found" the party of republican resistance to Federalist policies were all spelled out in a detailed manner by Ammon.
Some might fault the biography for not having the novel-like quality of a McCullough or Chernow work, but I still found it a strong accounting of Monroe's time on the public scene.-Andrew Canfield Shreveport, La.
For an author who clearly admires his subject, this omission surprised me, and makes me wonder whether a different biography might be best (note: I researched Unger's book on Monroe and he says Monroe was the big dog of the time and that Jefferson and Madison were merely "caretaker Presidents." I'm unwilling to agree with that notion, but his attempts are more than Ammon's efforts).If you're like me and you want to know more about the Presidents, this book is perfectly sufficient and represents a lot of the 1970s-era scholarship that gives facts and avoids any sweeping generalizations.
As one of the "Founding Fathers," Monroe served a distinguished career in service to his country: revolutionary soldier under Washington (he played a significant role at Trenton), Ambassador to both France and Great Britain, Senator, Secretary of State and Secretary of War and, finally, President.
His success in this endeavor is shown in the fact that he was the only nominee for President in 1820 (it is also true that fewer eligible voters voted in the presidential election of 1820 than in any other election in the history of the U.S.)He had an excellent working relationship with John Quincy Adams, who served as Secretary of State under Monroe for almost 8 years and who succeeded him in the Presidency.
However, I did have to read Coomb's "The Jay Treaty: Political Battleground of the Founding Fathers" (which was excellent) to fully understand Ammon's references to that time period.
The book continues to be annoyingly vague until Monroe steps into the role of Secretary of War/State during Madison's tenure, then it starts getting really good.
I'm only on page 119, so maybe this opinion will change, but so far I'm a little frustrated that Ammon assumes a lot of details are already known to the reader.
This book is definitely a solid read, especially after I started and immediately stopped Giles's "Monroe: Last Founding Father" due to SUPER BIAS.
(Those were huge, entrenched problems.)I definitely feel like I know my boy Monroe after reading this.
Those parts just didn't flow as well, and occasionally I found myself either reading some cabinet secretary's last name having totally forgotten who he is and what's his first name, or I thought Ammon had plunged into some situation without adequate intro/background, and I had to fill in details which luckily I could do having just read a huge Madison biography.
Overall, I learned a lot and am glad I read it, but it's not a particularly breezy read.
Confession: I didn't finish this book because it was due back at the library and I couldn't get it checked out again in the time frame I wanted.
That said, Ammon does a great job delving into all the things that could have made him the person and president he was.
Ammon especially sets up JQ Adams and Jackson coming up, and does a great job illustrating his relationships with Jefferson and Madison (and to a lesser degree Washington).
All in all, definitely a great read, but for history and policy's sake--not entertainment and connection to Monroe the person.
This is one of the best biographies on the not only the life of James Monroe but on the development of the United States role in world affairs.
The author clearly assesses not only the role that Monroe played but also the exogenous factors that led to the development of the country.
By framing this through Monroe's life we can clearly see his development along with that of the country at clear and critical junctures.
From the early days of the revolution to the diplomacy of Europe to his time as governor of Virginia Monroe clearly shaped the outcome of the United States.
James Monroe is the man I'll blame for finally breaking down and determining that I need a Kindle.
The Ammon biography is bulky, and terrible for commuting.
The book itself is a solid story about the somewhat complicated political life of James Monroe.
I thought the political battles were really interesting, and only wished a bit more focus was put on his years as president.
The majority of the book is before the presidential years, which totally makes sense, but the presidential years were really glossed over.
His final years were summarized in about a chapter.
Overall though, it was a solid biography.
This is a well-written and balanced biography on Monroe. I was a little disappointed with the fact that his presidency is not covered more, but he lived a full life after all. This still is the standard.
Very informative biography that spends a decent amount of time on every period of Monroe's life. Coverage and analysis of his presidency is particularly good. It's sometimes a bit dry, but that seems more the result of Monroe himself than how the book is written.
For a thick presidential biography, this one is not very good. a lot of details that didn't really need to be in there, and I didn't feel like I knew Monroe as well as I should have after reading it.
A terrific start to delving into this, the last great founder of the nation.
Interesting.
A very thorough and enlightnening read. No one will read this book unless they're really interested, but Ammon does a great job of showing Monroe as well as possible.
Great if you want a super detailed blow-by-blow account of his presidency. Not so great if you want to know about his personal life.
If you want to know about the growing pains of a young nation, this book is it. If you want to be inspired, read something else.
Four stars for thoroughness, three stars for entertainment value. Monroe was a comparatively boring, peacetime president, and the book reflects that.
