https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14960.Eden_Close
This is Anita Shreve's debut novel and it has everything that makes a novel a pleasure to read, and what it did was set the standard for the 19 novels that Shreve now has to her credit. It has a great story and characters as all of her novels do, but this first one remains one of my favorites.
I learned recently that many women in the first half of the 20th Century are being called "Middlebrow" - good enough to be re-published, but certainly nowhere near the more solidly classic authors.
I remember the laundry detergent, but haven't seen nor heard of it for decades.) Yes, the Oxydol box is a little corny and maybe Shreve didn't need to add that detail.We go back and forth from the present to the past.
I think this isn't Shreve's best work, but it happened to be just what I needed at the moment.
As another reviewer wrote, one could see where this book was headed from a mile away, so one assumes that Ms. Shreve wasn't trying to write a mystery or build up to a surprise ending.
The writing, although a bit odd sylistically, wasn't particularly beautiful or interesting (although there were certainly some well-turned phrases and some well described scenes -- brushing hair, the pond), so Ms. Shreve couldn't have written the book for the poetry of its words.
If so, she could have written this story without the pretense of the mystery and, in doing so could have made it more believable and could have spent more time developing the characters.
Anita Shreve is another flowery-prose-and-cliche-lovers.
I read Lisa's ([http://www.goodreads.com/user/show/10...]) copy of this book that she found shoved under her oil tank.It was okay.
The plot isn't very memorable.
In fact, I had to check Amazon to refresh myself on it to write this review.
I remember the relationship between Andrew and Eden as being sweet.
Unfortunately, the thing I remember most clearly are the tired cliches and nauseating flowery descriptions.
Too many words, just say what you mean!
I'm an aspiring writer myself so I'm especially critical of wordiness.
It has its time and its place, but it's an art to use it correctly.
They Made Me read this book in College and it was one of the worst periods of my life. Not because of anything happening to me, except the reading of this book. I'm unlikely to re-read it, so I'll attempt a review from a very old memory...Dire is the word that comes to mind. Very thin, very clichéd plot with some of the worst characters I've ever come across. The prose was flowery, twee and just the slowest. I hated it back then, I truly did. I hate myself for being able to remember this book, too.
She takes a situation, infuses it with humanness and the random bits of detail needed to pique interest and gradually, without seeming to be doing so, reels you into the suspense and drama surrounding otherwise average characters until you are forced to re-evaluate who they actually are and what purpose they fill in the story.I become totally involved in the slow revelations and seemingly indifferent mentions of important tidbits and although I usually think I know where the story is headed, more often than not I am pleasantly surprised and left wondering at the genius of her ability to thread the truth of her tale so unassumingly beneath the fabric of it's fiction.This story is about a boy and his childhood.
This book reminded me of why I used to love Anita Shreve so much.
I love the way her earlier books are written- their pace, atmosphere and quietude.
The story takes place on an isolated farmland and oscillates between the main character Andrew's present day (which was the 80s) and his youth 20 years prior.
Both timelines unfold together and past becomes entwined with present and long held secrets are finally uncovered in the last few pages.I would have not have guessed this was her first novel except for the ending somewhat gives it away.
Her other books do not have such tidy clean endings.
It's about a man who returns to his hometown after his mother dies. He's been gone for 17 years; he left for college not long after his next door neighbor was shot and his daughter assaulted. The daughter, Eden Close, was one of his best friends growing up. She's next door again, living with her mom.While he's home, Andrew starts to delve into the story of what actually happened that night and why Eden's mom is so protective of her.I only have one Anita Shreve book left. :( I hope she releases a new one soon.
The book is about a man, Andrew, who comes back to his childhood home after his mother passes away.
He has not been home much to visit since he left for college and has not stayed in touch with anyone from town, including his next door neightbor, Eden Close the girl he grew up with.
Andrew is taken in by the enigma that is now Eden and drawn in by her mystery once again.
This is a haunting book that leaves you pondering the characters long after the book has been put down.
I think everyone can relate to the story and the characters and their struggles.
Having a good friend is very important in our life.
Make a good friend is not as easy as we tought.
A good friend will always be there when we need it.
Beside that, I also learned about how to be a good person.
We never think if theres a good or bad thing will come to us.
That's why, as a person we must think clearly about what are we going to do, and we must be able to think about what probably will happen next.
These means what I've got/learned from this novel.
I love the way she writes - it's amazing and seems to transport me to wherever the characters are.
I love when I read a blurb that actually fits with the book.
So many times the blurbs just say anything and are laughable but the New York Times Book Review said that "Its insights are keen, its language measuered and haunting." And that's all true.
It's really amazing and no one can do her writing justice - you have to read it for yourself.
I have a different cover than the one above and while the one above is fitting, the one on my paperback is AWESOME!
The fact that this is Shreve's first novel is evident throughout the first half.
Her writing style is less polished than in later novels and there is a lot of redundency in her word choice.
The story focuses on Andrew as he returns to his childhood roots following the death of his mother.
His memories of one fateful night 17 years earlier come to light as he again encounters neighbors from his past.
Although I was able to predict the majority of the outcome there was enough suspense to keep me coming back for more and a few surprises to boot.
Here's how Anita Shreve is not like Mae West: when she's good, she's very good, but when she's bad, she's pretty mundane.This is not one of her good books, in my opinion. I saw the big climax coming from a mile away. I thought the emotions were clunky in this one, and some big questions remained unanswered--like why did Eden choose to remain living with her mother?The thing that redeemed this book was it had a nice happy ending. But I would give this one a pass.
Anita Shreve has written much better novels. I guessed too quickly where the plot was going, partly because of a blurb that gave just a little too much away, and my prime sentiment when working my way through it was impatience. Not much originality here.
I wish I could write like Anita Shreve. She uses words to create pictures, almost like watching a movie. I was so pulled into the characters and the unraveling mystery that I devoured this book in just a few days. Not my absolute Anita Shreve book but a winner.
I really liked the book. It was sort af mystery/love story. The writing was detailed enough that I felt I could see everything for myself.
One of the best!
Eden is her father's paradise, Andrew's paradise, and the sexual paradise for the town's boys.
But we really don't know what happened in Eden's bedroom that night.3.
His relationship with Eden is somewhat understandable given their childhood, but I felt like his motives were suspect.
Shreve wraps it up too quickly.DO NOT READ BEYOND THIS LINE BECAUSE OF SPOILERS!Did anyone else feel like Andrew's relationship with Eden was just a little too much like her mother's relationship with her?
Sean didn't seem to have a motivation to get the heck out of Dodge.Why did Andrew's father hide the gun?
In the book Eden Close by Anita Shreve, a young man named Andrew returns to his childhood house after the death of his mother to attend the funeral and pack up the house and try to sell it.
The longer Andrew stays renovating his old home, the more childhood memories flood his mind.
Like the memories of Eden Close, his childhood neighbor and friend.
I have read a couple other books of Anita Shreve, and I loved this one as much as I did the other ones I have read.
What it does, is plant the book squarely in a place, saying that the place this all happens in is as important as the girl.Sometimes reading several books by the one author, immediately following each other, makes them blur.
I was a little concerned at one stage that it might be a little similar to Where and When - teenagers who meet again quite a few years later - but the theme is different.Oh yes - one of the things I like about Shreve's writing, is her descriptions using the 5 senses.
For some odd reason, I had to study this for A-Level literature (yes, A-level).
It was beyond me why such a modern (not that amazing) book was on an A-Level curriculum but there you go.
Half of me wants to say that the book bored me yet the other half wants me to admit that the writing style and character development was particularly good.
I couldn't help but think it was just a bit of a woman's 'holiday read' and I didn't really get much from it.
Then again, I did have to study it in depth which probably spoilt it for me.
The book is a bit slow and somewhat painful as the narrator, through Andy, peels the past away and finally reveals the horrible event that has affected several families in the small town. The climax comes when a similar event almost occurs. Topics include repressed people, repressed memories, repressed family secrets, the past that haunts, incest. I wouldn't recommend this to many people. The plot is lacking, and it is never clear whether there is love or obsession between the two main characters. After a while, I questioned the whole point of the book.
I savored every word because her writing is so beautiful. There is something so familiar about her characters, insights that make you say, 'yes! exactly!' , sometimes out loud. In this way her writing resembles Elizabeth Berg. As much as I liked this one I did think that the story dragged in a few places, especially for as short a novel as it is. But the feeling of those two lonely houses alone together in a sea of farmland and the two old friends and would be lovers will be with me a while.
I am not fond of this author's books. But this book isn't bad one. It has so many flashbacks (not my favourite), it's about a man who wants to know what happened to his neighbor who was raped, no one know who did this, only the family (of teenager who was raped) know the truth. He found the truth 15 years later. It was very interesting, it was dull in the beginning, you have to bear with it for while, then middle of the story got better and it got easier to read from there.
Generally I enjoyed this book, but I have to say that I grew weary of the main character's constant headaches. Being the author brought them often, I suggest that in future writings she just has the man put on a pair of sunglasses when it's bright outside. It was an uneccessary destraction from the plot.
Anita Shreve is such a compelling story teller. The characters in this book came alive for me. Swimming in a cool pond in the midst of an August heat wave; walking through a cornfield; an old farmhouse kitchen filled with memories. All of these places existed while I was reading. An the dark secrets revealed at the end were hovering over the story from page one.
This book by Anita Shreeve is a character study, more than a story. The story does make itself evident, however, during the course of the book. I have to say, though, that it is my least favorite of all the books I've read by her.
Though I probably shouldn't, I love Anita Shreve. She's actually a pretty good writer. Evocative. She keeps me interested to the end.
This book was a stinker. I guessed the ending and then only finished it because I wanted to see if I was right.
I thoroughly enjoyed every moment of this book, a great story, characters you could really like and wonderfully written, it was a joy to read.
