https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5148.A_Separate_Peace
Phineas is a fine athlete and as Gene starts to weigh their relationship he starts to believe that Finny is intentionally pulling him away from his study to keep the scales of friendship out of balance.
When Phineas pulls him away from his French studies to attend a now ritualized lake baptism, Gene goes, but his mind is in a dark place.
I remember this book distinctly because seldom have I hated a book more.In addition to being a depressing piece of work, it is about as relevant to kids today as a 45RPM single (that's something we had before CDs, boys and girls). Why are they still putting it on reading lists? What fan of John Knowles has been paying teachers to force this on the kids?
It is a short, exquisitely crafted story narrated by a talented but unconspicuous boy who is jealous of his best friend, Phineas--who is athletic, beautiful, and kind.
Phineas stands tall as the prodigy of American prep adolescence.
For though the narrator is jealous and resentful that of his authentic golden-boy friend, he cannot even express it because Phineas has always been kind to him.
That is an elemental frustration, native to adolescence and loneliness, and no book I have ever read has treated that frustration with more compassion and justice.
15 years later he came back to Devon School to seek forgiveness for what he did here while he was a student.
Gene was a spectacular student academically while Finny's dream was to attend Olympics of 1944.
Then one day in accident Finny fell from a tree and broke his legs and with it his Olympic dreams.
how the war was effecting the peace and hesitation of Devon and America to jump in the War..But this story stands out in how it describe the suffocation that one felt when they come to realize that the bad that they had done need not to be done.
The book focuses on the relationship between Finny, the popular and perfect athlete, and Gene, the intelligent and dangerously introspective one.
The event serves as a metaphor for how Gene's betrayal of the friendship has broken Finny.
Effective use is made of Finny as a Christ figure and we witness as Gene grows psychologically in response to the realization that he has destroyed not just Finny's athletic career, but also Finny's essence.
Knowles does so much with setting and imagery in the book that I pick up on something new every time I read it.
My teacher gave us a quiz on some random detail-bits, and I remembered little things like how many years had passed between Point A and Point Boring, and that somehow meant that I wasn't actually UNDERSTANDING the damn book (because it is of course impossible to have a sticky memory and still glean deeper meaning from one's reading), so Teacher and Teacher's Pet called me "petty" for the rest of the day.
Competitors and rivals. Best friends. There is always one who is more outgoing, more apt to take risks. Here we have one who is more comfortable abiding by the rules, the other flagrantly flaunting them. What about the one who is pulled along for the ride? Is he an unwilling participant or simply someone who needs a push? Suspicion and resentment, loyalty and betrayal.
A Separate Peace is essentially a story of the relationship between two boys, and if it went a little farther, I think the points it made would've driven much deeper.The plot mostly revolves around a single character, Finny, and although he's lively and exciting, this story is far from.
What it lacks in excitement, it makes up in every other way.The prose, while pretty plain, is beautiful and flows so well it's easy to burn through this book in no time.
The plot, while simple, has a few shockers--and with the story being so short--it almost comes off as a page-turner.
Finny is simply one of the funnest, most interesting characters I've come across.
Book Review  3 of 5 stars to A Separate Peace, a novel written in 1959 by John Knowles. I suspect if I were to re-read this "classic" again now, it has a chance of getting a higher rating; however, I'm not in a rush to prove the theory. I have a few good memories of the story, some a bit "blah," but overall... it was a decent book. When I read The Secret History last year, I had vague recollections of this being somewhat similar, though the topics are quite different.At the core, this is a com
Book Review
Lots to teach young adults, learning to make their own decisions and set a path for their life.I enjoyed the story, but I would have preferred a more modern setting.
But the parts inside the character's head, questioning motives, being psychological in their analysis, were the ones worth reading.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Note: All written content is my original creation and copyrighted to me, but the graphics and images were linked from other sites and belong to them.
Many thanks to their original creators.
They become fast friends but impulsive horse-play leads to the death of one of the boys.So it’s a male-bonding, loss of innocence, coming of age story set just before World War II, when the threat of the draft hangs over all the boys.
Coincidentally, at about the same time that I was reading A Separate Piece, I also happened to be reading Fitzgerald’s This Side of Paradise and I was struck by the similarities between the two: male bonding, coming of age (but at an elite college instead of a prep school); a war and the draft hanging over them (WW I for Fitzgerald; WW II for the prep school boys).
Tiring of typical grade school fare I surreptitiously ordered A Separate Peace from the "other side" of the monthly Bantam book order form - unbeknownst to my Mother and my teacher.
As grade school and high school books were shipped intermingled I plucked my order from the school shipment the moment the boxes were opened.
Before I even opened the book I sensed that if I wanted to finish it, I better do so secretly.
In retrospect I probably had no business reading such a book at such an early age.But I did.
And it forever changed my understanding of what books could be.
uptight boy loves free spirit boy but is too uptight to admit it. fat-ass boy tries to get in the way. then, betrayal.
i read it in high school, like most people.
it was the year with all the "classics" that everyone has read at some point in schooling, all depicting young adults in various stages of angst or 19th century high drama or epic poems.
whatever.but this book gave me such a strong physical reaction - i sobbed and felt ill through so much of this story.
i tried to pick up this book recently, when i found it in a stack of my high school material, but i just couldn't read it again.
This relentless fight and struggle that fuels the conflict at the centre of the book never felt real, and so the book’s heart of darkness felt more like an evanescent shadow play rather than the savage fight it is supposed to be.
If all there is to the conflict is Gene’s personal hate and envy of goodness and his desire to destroy it—that this is the something “fundamentally ignorant about the human heart”—then I find the novel somewhat repugnant.
(view spoiler)[And not because the hate and envy are repugnant, but because the act of cruelty powered by those emotions is what saves Gene.
I had to read this book in 11th grade English. I hated it. I had to read it again in college. I still hated it. I don't know why everyone thinks it's so great. Please, explain the appeal to me!
I was required to read this piece of crap when I was a sophomore at Carmel High.
When you are in high school, you are required to read many books as part of a required reading list.
I didnt find the main characters very likable or sympathetic and frankly I am astonished as to why this rubbish was considered required reading for high school?
Becoming a teenager was not an easy time for most of us, but Im sure there are far better books dealing with and explaining those difficult years than this story of two prep school brats at the cusp of WWII.
This is one of those "required summer reading novels".
In fact, while I am sure they are out there, I don't think I have ever met anyone who read this and it was not required for school.But, it was an enjoyable required read.
Focusing on coming of age, schoolboy friendships, etc.
Not too much else I can say without spoiling it, but it was kinda rough on the teenage spirit at the time.
We think we can all survive anything when we are young .
. .If you were never required to read this one for school, it is worth the read!
I was bored senseless. Let's leave it at that.
The self serving voice lies.I think it was a mistake to tell the events of the story from Gene's will.
Someone will tell you what sounds like their whole life story as if there is no time.
Sure, Gene tells that he isn't like the average boy's academy bully.
When A Separate Peace is best we get to hear Leper imply what Gene looked like when he was running with the boys.
Gene's confessional in A Separate Peace as this is what boys are like, this is what lies in their hearts.
The book is worth reading just being able to watch people like Hadley squirm.
However the main reason I believe that this book doesn't really carry a strong message to the modern reader is beyond all the things I have yet considered: the difficulty with appreciating this book isn’t an itinerant selfishness, the desire to remain individual rather than a small part of the whole, nor is it about the inability to relate to prep school, inevitable deniability or even the heavy symbolism.
Turns out many of my Goodreads friends read it already, so I discovered this is a well known book.
Beautiful read.
Brooding story, a coming of age tale with a dark side.
Need to reread it again for all the details and the beautiful language.
For those who don't know this book yet...Set at a boy's boarding school in New England during the early years of World War II, we meet Gene and Phineas, two students.
A harrowing and luminous parable of the dark side of adolescence.
What happens between the two friends one summer, banishes the innocence of these boys and their world.
The book I didn't read in high school but should have.
Most people would list the Catcher In the Rye as the ultimate coming of age story, but I beg to differ.
For me, my coming of age book was A Separate Peace.
Unlike prior assigned reading books, I actually READ this one.I wish I could remember more of it.What I do remember was that I liked it.
During the process the boy builds a friendship with someone much unlike him that gets him into troubles and hijinks and they have times where it is difficult between them, but they grow to be very close.
There is only one way to score peace on this earth: when Gene says ‘my war ended before I ever put on a uniform’, what he means is his life ended.
Not as athletic, o witty as his friend Finny, Gene looks for his niche: a place to assert himself.
Rote leaning ensues: there is no joy in learning, there is no accumulation of knowledge wealth: only a stockpile of grades, earned with blood and sweat, and maybe resentment.
Life without living.Now, Gene and I have to go lick our wounds.
Here's a book that was first published in 1959 and which I read when I was sixteen and now fifty or so years later I read again.
What I wanted to see most of all was how envy and guilt and goodness and forgiveness are shown, portrayed, painted carefully by craftsman, in the way the characters speak, in the particular sequence of their words, in the way they walk, in the movement of their eyes and even in the architecture of the buildings and in the icy New England landscape.
The word "envy" was used once.
This, this is why books last.
But I could not seem to feel any sympathy for any of the characters except Leper.The boys know they will soon face the gruesome realities of WWII, and this knowledge affects each student differently.
Naturally there would have been no story at all without the chaos caused by these attitudes, but I kept hoping that Gene would face facts at some point and take his life in a whole different direction than the way it turned out.This book was on a class reading list years and years ago in high school, but I chose other titles at that time.
3.5 ☆ A coming of age story about best pals Gene + Finney, two boys that live at a New Hampshire boys boarding school during WWll, both overachiever’s.. one in athletics, the other book smart. An accident happens to Finney caused by Gene’s extreme jealousy over him resulting in a broken leg. The truth later gets revealed, and in those final moments takes a life. A great story about friendship + regret.
One of the few assigned books in high school that I actually liked.
We're told the story from Gene's POV as an adult, although he obviously still harbors a lot of insecurities & isn't as accurate as he thinks in his reporting.
During the book, he's best friends with Finny who is as carefree as anyone can be, but he's torn between his friend & the conservative respectability that the school embodies, the expectations of his world.
Added to Gene's confusion is his jealousy of Finny, who is a natural athlete.
Ugh. I had heard my friends from high school talk about how much they hated this book when they had to read it and thought perhaps hadn't been able to appreciate it as required reading.
Turns out, it's just an awful book.
Sympathy for the characters = 0.
I kept turning pages against my will because a) I thought that there had to be SOMETHING redeeming about it (there's not) and b) because I was teaching it to 8th graders.
Besides the shoddy writing and boring plot/characters, the part that killed me was how Finny supposedly dies (some bone marrow from his broken leg gets into his blood stream then to his heart).
This classic takes the world war and instead focuses on the true war – that within ourselves, a silent war no others see but that an individual must face.Gene is a king in the school, a brain who’s best friends with the brawn, the top athlete who excels so naturally at things he doesn’t always want credit for them.
Little is uplifting; of course it’s never a rule a book must be, but the bleakness is painful to read, which is suitable for a novel set during the false glories of wars.
