https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/188089.Selected_Stories
Rather they are excerpts from a fluid cycle incorporating moments of ecstatic pleasure and self-awareness/development.Mansfield's use of momentary 'bliss' (one of her stories has this title, and actually explicitly discusses the self-engulfing state of bliss) is more sophisticated than the naive aestheticism of Wilde (maybe I should say his disciples rather than slander an important writer): it affirms the inexpressible pleasure of being alive, drawing the reader directly into the immediacy of the ecstatic moment, but it goes on to develop the feeling in relation to dramatic irony and other pleasures-of-reading.
This helps explain why short story form has been a playground for innovative writers since Mansfield, Woolf, Joyce, Lawrence etc.
من از بین داستانها «خلیج»، «کودکی که خسته بود»، «سم»، «مگس» و خود «یک فنجان چای» رو بیشتر از بقیه دوست داشتم.منسفیلد هم مثل چخوف از زندگی روزمره مینویسه.
شروع و پایان قصه هاش ناگهانیه ولی اون حس مطبوعی که بعد از تموم شدن هر قصه میاد سراغ آدم، اون حسی که میگی منظورت رو فهمیدم از نوشتن این قصه، حسی که شاید با خوندن رمانهای بلند هم بهت دست نده، اون حس رو من همیشه از خوندن داستانها گرفتم.به نظرم نقطه مشترک منسفیلد و چخوف که من خیلی دوستش دارم اینه که فقط قصه میگن.
I was brought up to love the Bradbury School where-in the perfect short story tells a story and has a remarkable ending that might be a revelation or plot twist or unexpected action or possibly even an ambiguous cliff-hanger.
The absolute best of these will have a crucial and memorable final sentence.Then there's the Chekov School in which the ideal is for absolutely nothing to happen, no plot, no surprise ending, just an excruciating description of minutiae from the perspective of a usually dull or unpleasant character.
I couldn't find the exact collection that I own, so I'll be reviewing her, generally.Mansfield had a talent for atmosphere, creating sensory impressions that are (still) both physically and emotionally vivid to the reader.
The effect is a very solitary voice, -- yet close to the ear, and inclusive in spirit.
She never argued a story.
She let the story speak for itself.To be honest, there were times I didn't quite know what she was getting at.
But then, I am an idiot.
About midway through, around 1918, the stories suddenly develop a kind of wholeness that makes them brilliant.
First ever foray into Katherine Mansfield. First off, I’ll be honest and just get it out that I didn’t quite know what Mansfield was getting at for the most times. I found her writing to be ambiguous especially at the beginning, but as I read on, I began to get a sense of understanding of her stories. Some of my favourite are:• A Cup of Tea• The Little Girl• The Garden Party• Late at Night• Two Tuppenny Ones, Please• The Black Cap• A Suburban Fairy Tale• Sixpence• How Pearl Button was Kidnapped•
I found her writing to be ambiguous especially at the beginning, but as I read on, I began to get a sense of understanding of her stories.
I would be lying if I didn’t feel like I’m one of her characters with all of my never ending resolutions that usually came up to nothing.
She let the stories speak for themselves through the vivid simple scenes and ultimately, her characters left their impressions.
Her writing is like a quiet storm—came silently, and left everything devastated in its wake.
A selection of 73 stories originally published in 1965 by Alfred A Knopf.
Contains the amateurish "From a German Pension" stories, the great "Bliss", the two masterpieces which are surely novel fragments about her childhood, "Prelude" and "At the Bay", and the final work which contains many accomplished stories.
About 12 good stories here in a career which was cut short before it really developed.
No criticism I've noticed explores Mansfield's relation to Chekhov and many seem to credit Mansfield with the latter's achievement.
A great writer who may have been greater had she lived, but who wrote some absorbing and enchanting work.
The collection includes:From Bliss (1920): Prelude,Je ne parle pas français, Bliss, Psychology, Pictures, The Man without a Temperament, Mr. Reginald Peacock's Day, Sun and Moon,Feuille d'Album, A Little Pickle, The little GovernessFrom The Garden-Party (1922): At the Bay, The Garden-Party, The Daughters of the Late Colonel, Mr. and Mrs. Dove, Life of Ma Parker, Marriage a la Mode, The Voyage, Miss Brill, Her First Ball, The StrangerFrom The Dove's Nest (1923): The Doll's House, A Cup of Tea, The Fly, The Canary
I'll tend to read a story from this book here and there. On a rainy night, I'll read one of the stories from this book. They're pretty short, but each one is very profound. I'll probably be reading it for a long time because I don't want it to end :).
کتاب خوبی بود، هرچند در مقایسه با « گاردن پارتی» از همین نویسنده و مترجم ، کمتر دوستش داشتم
This is a re-read for me; as I get a little older it is nice to go back and re-experience (and perhaps apply new perspective to) dusty books from the home library.
The edition I have is a 1956 Vintage paperback, with introduction by Elizabeth Bowen.Katherine Mansfield’s stories are a joy to read; you never quite know what delight will come next.
Other times, there are more long and drawn out narratives (“Prelude”, “At the Bay”, set in the New Zealand of her childhood).
Please, please read (or re-read) Katherine Mansfield if you haven’t already!
Some of her themes I found initially ambiguous but this panned out in relation to the number of stories I read.
The heartbreaking truths of many of her stories is how her characters seem on the brink of making beneficial changes to their lives but are somehow trapped or harried into taking the easy option and staying in their appointed roles.
It is a rewarding selection of stories by a sophisticated writer, whose writing is at times beautifully evocative in its almost poetic imagery as well as extraordinarily fluid in her analogies between scenes and characters.
Kathrine Mansfield is a true master of un resolved epiphany...Her characters never find out what can be done to make thing right. Like Tchekouf, she shows the gun in first chapter and for sure will shoot the barrel in the end.She is a pioneer in feminist writing. Short stories such as Miss Brill, The Fly, Je ne parle pa francies, doll house, Bliss are among the best short stories of the world.
I love Mansfield's writing. She is insightful and uses beautiful, poetic prose. I'm not a big fan of short stories but Mansfield is very skilled at drawing you in quickly and at creating interesting and complex characters that stay with you. Particularly enjoyed Miss Brill, The Fly and Bliss.
Oh she is a fun writer.
Exhibition of contrived revelation.
I adore these short stories. They are just simply stunning.
Katherine Mansfield is definitely my favourite writer of short stories.
This collection is definitely a good taste of her brilliance and I enjoyed dipping in and out of it for a month or so.
There is something so striking about Mansfield's way of writing.
She is ruthless, quick, brilliant.
My favourite short stories by her are definitely from that collection.
Especially I love At the Bay and Marriage A la Mode.
She describes love, passion and loneliness in such colourful and brilliant detail.
Some of the stories felt a bit too same for me but most of them were beautiful and melancholic.
I must confess that there does seem to me something sad in life.
It is hard to say what it is.
I don't mean the sorrow that we all know, like illness and poverty and death.
No, it is something different.
It is there, deep down, deep down, part of one, like one's breathing.
However hard I work and tire myself I have only to stop to know it is there, waiting.
I often wonder if everybody feels the same.
One can never know.
But isn't it extraordinary that under his sweet, joyful little singing it was just this—sadness ?—Ah, what is it ?—that I heard.
This was part of Gail's humanities OU course. Not a book I'd have stumbled upon myself. It's well-crafted stuff but not my subject. Saying that, Mr Dove struck a nerve and a few others made me sit up and take notice. If you like 'literature', it's a work of the art. The fact that most of it left me in a state of 'non-grippedness' makes me think it's because I must be some kind of misanthrope.
Writing for writings sake. This book is the equivalent of posing an unmade bed and calling it art. No structure, no central mast to keep the reader steady. Intentionally confusing the reader is not clever writing. An insult to the sacred art of story telling. Too offended to finish it even though I’m supposed to read it for uni.
I think I was expecting a focus on the well-heeled middle classes (a la Virginia Woolf and Elizabeth Bowen) and while that is pretty much the environment for most of these stories, there is a surprising focus on the outcast and the marginalised, which tends to show polite society in a poor light. Excellent.
As is often the case with a collection of short stories, I found some more enjoyable than others. I often like a break between stories to come to the next one fresh, but with 33 stories in this book it means you take a while. They differed in length and tone but overall they were entertaining and interesting.
Bliss, Psychology. Addresses the liminal, and psychological tools/delusions we use to attempt to be consistent within it. Epiphany brings us into greater authenticity/illuminates these self-concepts that otherwise delude us in the world
-Actual Rating 3.3 Stars-I haven't read all of these, I've read about 6 of the stories for one of my uni modules, but I liked the ones I've had to study so I'm going to continue on with the others at some point
This stuff moves your insides
Nice stories, the only drawback to me is that 100 years old language and realities take quite an effort to digest sometimes, it's pretty different from the modern short stories.
Didn't find the stories interesting at all, with the exception of a few. Most of them were beautifully written, but the stories' contents did just not appeal at all...
These stories are nearly 100 years old but are still very readable, enjoyable and immensely clever. Mansfield was ahead of her time in being able to depict the discriminatory practices of the English class system with all its snobbery and false airs. She also had great empathy for the working class who loyally toiled to support the undeserved privileged.She also wrote about a range of people - children, the elderly, the naive, the rich, the poor. Quiet brilliant.
'Under [the canary's] sweet, joyful little singing it was just this - sadness? (...) that I heard.'Mansfield's intricate short stories engage with many lives of quiet desperation, exposing the disappointments, petty jealousies and thwarted dreams of adult life. Not easy reading, but stories that stay with you long after reading.
I only had to read about twelve of these short stories and I thoroughly enjoyed all of them. This and To The Lighthouse have both pleasantly surprised me and I might actually enjoy Modernism on my course next year. While I have only read some, I will definitely read the rest in the future when I get time.
