https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333314.Murphy
Samuel Becket has turned me on with the very first phrase in the book:“The sun shone, having no alternative, on the nothing new.”There is no reality, only a simulacrum of reality: individuals entertain themselves with bizarre occult practices and weird intellectual discourses:“Humanity is a well with two buckets, one going down to be filled, the other coming up to be emptied.”Isn’t it a perfect metaphor of birth and death, of knowledge and ignorance, of memory and oblivion?“Murphy’s mind pictured itself as a large hollow sphere, hermetically closed to the universe without.
Scintillating, superb, fractal geometry in words.Yeah, that verdict stands too.Rating: 5* of fiveThe Publisher Says: MURPHY, when first published in 1938, was Beckett's first novel and third work of ficiton.
Then there's this guy Murphy plays chess with in the mental hospital where Murphy goes to work.Okay, it can't really be this hard.
Murphy, an Irish depressive, has to get a job because Celia, his petite amie, thinks it will do him good.
So he leaves Ireland, goes to London and starts working at a mental hospital.
If you are not used to reading modernist or postmodernist works, there is a big chance that Beckett's writing style would discourage you.
Although, "Murphy" of course is a lot shorter and easier to understand than "Ulysses."But I have to admit again that I am not sure I understood everything that Beckett wanted to convey in this book.
I have not seen anything as effective as Beckett's style.My advice to those who want to read this: don't be too bothered about the specifics in the first half.
To achieve personal bliss, Murphy sits tied--by seven scarves--and naked "in his rocking chair of undressed teak, guaranteed not to crack, warp, shrink, corrode, or creak at night." This rather bizarre arrangement works to give his body pleasure and "free his mind": "For it was not until his body was appeased that he could come alive in his mind....And life in his mind gave him pleasure, such pleasure that pleasure was not the word."In short, Murphy isn't heading anywhere in a hurry; his lack of what we might view as motivation parodies time, a point one could gather from the book's opening line, which neatly lampoons all the novels with predictably dull first lines about weather and time, and also lets us know we aren't in Kansas anymore: The sun shone, having no alternative, on the nothing new.I've been thinking a lot about humor this summer because I'm pondering whether to teach a course on the topic.
Εκδόσεις Δωρικός, 1970. Μετά το Νόμπελ λογοτεχνίας 1969 η πρώτη νουβέλα του Μπέκετ (1938) μεταφράζεται στα ελληνικά. Με έκδηλη την επιρροή του δασκάλου Joyce, ο Μπέκετ ξεδιπλώνει το φλέγμα του και το απαράμιλλο ύφος του μέσα από τους καθόλα κανονικούς αλλά καθόλου τυχαίους χαρακτήρες τουΕπίκεντρο, η καλτ φυσιογνωμία του αναρχικού κ στα όρια της παραφροσύνης , Murphy, που αναγνωρίζει μια ματαιότητα στο ζειν. Γοητευτικοτατη δε για τους γύρω του, ακόμα και εν τη απουσία του.

Murphy is a strange, sad, melancholic and sometimes funny novel on madness, boredom, misunderstanding and isolation. Murphy, our main character and isolated 'solipsist', stuck in a void, jobless and work-shy, decides to withdraw from life away from his prostitute fiance. What follows is Beckett's bleak and absurd humour on everyday life, an outlook shared by his alter ego on paper, Murphy, and his ambitious wordplay. When writers treat language as if it were gold, that's when a work of literature becomes something special. Murphy is certainly one of those. Now, where's the Trilogy...?
Combined with deep imaginative understanding, this book is heavier than it reads.
It reads like a breeze.
And funny to boot!First published in 1938, Murph predates Pynchon and Vonnegut (Why aren't these authors compared more often?
As a verbal freestyler, it's hard to argue any of the later literary tricksters are as keen or poetic as Beckett.
The drawback to the arch-sarcastic literary mode is that it can be hard to take anything seriously, like, when someone dies for instance.
If we all could be utilized so!If this is Beck's first book, I can imagine why he won the Nobel Prize.
I like doing that with authors.
[4.5] Nine years ago, I was in love with someone whose favourite book was Murphy; this copy was from a second hand bookshop en route between our flats.
Description of the way light comes through the windows of a dingy flat over a day's course may not be adjectivally conventional description, yet - or so - it pins it utterly.I long had a bad habit, a faulty reflex, almost, of looking for a person in their favourite books and films (more so when it was someone I fancied, a elusive sprite, than a long-standing close friend who could simply be asked).
Não gostei de ninguém.
Não percebi ninguém.Mas Murphy...vive "numa gaiola de dimensões médias, virada a noroeste, com uma vista ininterrupta para outras gaiolas de dimensões médias, viradas a sudoeste."...amarra-se a uma cadeira de baloiço, com sete tiras de pano, para acalmar o corpo, submergir-se no espírito e encontrar a paz interior...não lê e a única coisa que escreve é quanto à disposição final do seu corpo: queimado e despejado numa latrina...De Samuel Beckett não li muito e nem o entendo bem.
Parece-me absurdo o que escreve, mas ao mesmo tempo não.
Devia fazer-me chorar, mas faz-me rir.
There’s a time and a place for absurd Irish humour and cataleptically weird prose, and it’s not on Boxing Day, or the day after Boxing Day, which I call Facial Reconstructive Surgery Day. I’m peevish Mr. Beckett, and your prose isn’t helping none, especially in this teensy 8-point font edition. Now pass me a cheap Belgian vodka truffle and shut up.
Ten years ago I read this for the first time on an airplane and the second time five minutes later, which should show how much I loved and did not quite understand it.
But then somehow after the first flush one shrinks, into a small, but quite virulent Beckett-hater.
All that "despair".
The verbal brilliance of a martian teenager coating what is essentially the Olde Irish Romance: in love with what kicks us.
For all its despair, Murphy is the paradise.
Thought perhaps this made it Beckett's hell...
'Life is all rather irregular,' said Neary" I have picked up and put down this novel a few times before, never being able to get through it all in one continuous reading, despite my enjoyment of it and its bizarre prose, absurd comedy, and Worstword Ho!
Tho I will admit to having taken a lengthy break in the middle of my misadventure, I still stand beside the fact of my having got through the entirety of this spectacle of absurdity and tragedy and comedy and plenty other words ending in y.
Bunları duraksamadan okuyabilmek, hatta bazısını anlayabilmek için dahi geniş bir entelektüel birikim veya bir Beckett sözlüğü (var böyle bir şey) gerekiyor.
Beckett bir çok isim yanında Descartes ile de ilgilenmiş.
Descartes bilginin kaynağı olarak usu (akıl) merkez alan (rasyonel) bir bilgi felsefesini benimsemişti.
Bilginin asıl kaynağı ustur fakat beden de dış dünya ile sürekli temas halindedir - beden dünyanın etkisindedir.
Birinde Murphy’nin usa dönme veya bu ruha halinden çıkma çabaları, diğerinde ise onun peşindeki “kuklaların”, ilişki yumağı ve etraflarında gelişen olaylar örgüsü var.
Benim aklıma daha fazla yatan ikinci bir yoruma göre ise Murhpy burada “Us / beden ikiliğinin üstesinden gelinemez, birbiriyle bağdaştırılamaz ve aralarında ilişki kurulamaz” yaklaşımında.
His prose reads like a lonely man's guide to madness where epiphanies pass like gas, and boredom develops its owns manic design.
A high watermark of literature - playful and tragic, profane and manic.Selections from MURPHY:'He had the curious hunted walk, like that of a destitute diabetic in a strange city.''He thought of the four caged owls in Battersea Park whose joys and sorrows did not begin till dusk.''Here he was not free, but a mote in the dark of absolute freedom.''Enter Cooper.
Once it occurred to me that such a contradiction in the classical orders--recounting deaths in a somber or melancholy key and the complications of romance leading to marriage as a series of humorous blunders--is about as good a definition of the literature of the absurd as we are going to get.
Therefore the literary recombination of mood and subject matter reeks of disorder even as it is only a re-combination of already established orders--a tragic tale recounted in a humorous key.Notably, this is both Beckett's first bona fides masterpiece and his first entirely concurrently published novel.
Although there may have been plenty of games where players attack and defend both at the same time (which may be what "affence" suggests: attack and defence), I am not aware of any known word in the chess lingo which combines the concepts of attack and defense in a single word.
"Affence" does not appear in the authoritative and encyclopedic "The Oxford Companion to Chess," for example.
Neither does the game between the principal protagonist Murphy (with the White pieces) and the mental patient Endon appear in any of the current chess databases containing possibly all of the known games believed to have been played in this more than 2,000-year-old human invention.
This was not what I expected. Rather than Beckett's typical stripped back prose and hermetic narratives, this is an exuberant parade of brilliant wordplay, colorful characters, and wicked humor that's pretty similar to, say, prime Flann O'Brien. A comedic masterpiece.
هزار بار در طول خوندنش با خودم میگفتم نمیشد آقای آشوری این کتاب رو ترجمه کرده بودن؟نمیدونم ضعف من در
Funny/sad/funny too absurd for tragic is as Beckett does or will do as he stokes his burner with this debut novel. In "Murphy" his style is more typical to detail narrative than his later work that gets more and more esoteric. Everything that comes later is synecdoche'd here or so it seems. Murphy is the everyman of nowhere doing nothing and wanting out.
Reading Beckett (for the first time) is like watching a highly adroit but mystifying magician. Or seeing a play in another language. Or coming across a street performer performing complicated and dizzying feats—like juggling on a high-wire while simultaneously turning cartwheels and meditating. In other words, Beckett, for me, felt like an entertaining yet befuddling spectacle. I love his playfulness with language, his daringness in using completely inaccessible vocabulary and classic/archaic al
Reading Beckett (for the first time) is like watching a highly adroit but mystifying magician.
Or seeing a play in another language.
In other words, Beckett, for me, felt like an entertaining yet befuddling spectacle.
Come to think of it, he reminds me vaguely of Gertrude Stein—an inverse “fool” who confounds with his complexity of words, rather than complicating through simplicity as Stein does.
Both writers “get under [my:] skin,” as Stein once rightly declared of her own sentences.
They both get that there’s no answer; so why not play with the mind’s questions?
"Murphy," published in 1938, is by Irish poet and playwright Samuel Beckett, a writer I remember from my days as a theater student for his play, "Waiting for Godot." The story depicts a protagonist whose central pursuit in life is never to be caught doing anything of value.
What transpires next follows the strange motivations of his friends as they search (or wait) for Murphy to turn up.
The final chapter reveals what happens to him, and the story’s end is ludicrous.
Re-read this novel after decades and after reading most everything else by Beckett, I better appreciate how this novel anticipates many of the themes and stylistic elements that Beckett will later pursue. I still think the novel is a bit crowded with some just barely conceptualized characters drawn in the rough, and there is more of a picaresque plot to this novel that sometimes feel heavy-handed; but the sentences and vocabulary choices are absolutely sumptuous. And every final scene from the blow-by-blow chess game and after is exquisite.
Mmm, not for me. I don't always understand Joyce's writing, but when layers of meaning reveal themselves, it's thrilling. Beckett seems to go for the same thing, but fails in my eyes. Joyce writes effortlessly, but Beckett feels so forced to me. It feels like he's trying so, so hard to make High Art, and the trying ruins it for me.
“The sun shone, having no alternative, on the nothing new.”
If Murphy, his chair, and the jury-rigged gas-jet doesn't tear at the fibrous fuzz of your constitution, I don't want to know you as a human being. Pretty simple, really.
http://dodo-space.ru/lobster/2015-04-10/
Da subito il dualismo corpo/spirito, la necessità di placare i bisogni del primo per avere accesso al mondo del secondo, quello che Murphy riconosce come il suo vero mondo, quello dal quale gli altri cercano di strapparlo via e quello nel quale lui cerca costantemente rifugio perché non è interessato a ciò che accade fuori da sé: la realtà è irredimibile, e da questo punto di vista l’incipit così noto del romanzo (il sole splendeva, senza possibilità di alternative, sul niente di nuovo) è una vera e propria dichiarazione di intenti.
Murphy sat out of it, as though he were free, in a mew in West Brompton.”For 3 weeks I have been contemplating on writing a review because I was not sure whether a review will do this book justice.
No wonder why he tries to depict Murphy as having a split personality, “split self”, trying to distinguish between the imaginary and the less meaningful.
In the end, she fulfills her dream of Murphy finding a job to get her off the street.
He eventually lands a job at a mental asylum where he has a fateful chess game with one of the inmates, and while I don't want to spoil the ending for anyone, I will say that while I rarely laugh out loud at anything I read in a novel, reading Murphy's instructions for the disposal of his remains provided one of those rare moments for me.
For some reason I found myself thinking that if a demoniac comedian were to re-write the Book of Job, it might end up looking a lot like Murphy.
