https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47212.Storm_Front
I kept reading out of some misguided expectation that things would get better, that there couldn't possibly be such a sustained level of misogyny coming from both the character and the authorial voice.
The main character, Harry Dresden, repeatedly tells us that he's a chauvinist, yes, and shows no signs of wanting to change that.
It's laden with sexist stereotypes that irritate me and in case you couldn't guess, it made me very, very angry.The book also fails on pretty much every technical level I can think of: I have no idea why it's set in Chicago, or why the location was emphasised, because there's absolutely no sense of place to it.
I never got around to reading these books until The Name of the Wind was published.
And when I first did, I was a little pissed.
First person point of view.
Magic based on thermodynamics.
Gritty, realistic world.
Arrogant wizard who doesn't know when to keep his mouth shut.
Some people say that the first few books of this series were kinda rough.
In fact, I burned through the whole series (11 books at the time) in about two weeks.
As a side note, James Marsters reads the audiobooks.
And while his first one was a little rough, all the rest are very enjoyable.
Harry Dresden, a wisecracking, self-deprecating, Star Wars-references-dropping, never-knowing-when-to-shut-up, and unwaveringly good guy with a penchant for attracting trouble was someone I'd love to be friends with.
This book is a quick and delightfully pulpy read, modeling Harry's personality and adventures on the hardboiled crime noir detective stories with a generous helping of humor set against the paranormal background.
But it was enough to keep me completely engrossed in Harry Dresden's world and read eleven books of the series in a little over a week.
Look if you like this book and you're in Junior high then fine (though I could recommend better things for you to read that are aimed at your age group), but not adults.
Then if you don't find those to be far better book written by actual good writers, well then I'm just going to have to say that you and I may be from different planets or something.This book is not fun to read.
I'm not going to recommend an author to someone because his first work was really awful but if you just read two more books by him he gets good.
If people are going to treat you like dirt, you might as well be fucking them over equally as bad!Besides, most of the characters in this book could have come out of ANY mystery novel about a rogue private eye solving mysteries and helping the police.You have:1) The toughass female cop with a heart of gold.2) The asshole cop who gets in the way and hates the protagonist for no reason.3) The surly bartender who knows everything and likes the protagonist.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99:  http://amzn.to/2yOviAoReviewed by: Rabid Reads3.5 starsLover of Urban Fantasy that I am, it may come as a surprise that before now . . . I have never actually . . . read Jim Butcher . . .I KNOW. I'm such a poser.In my defense, I haven't had much luck with male authors in the genre, and come on . . . we're up to what? FIFTEEN installments, with the SIXTEENTH already in the works, so yeah--DAUNTING. Cut me some slack.  And besides, better late than never, right?Also, I
And besides, better late than never, right?Also, I'm holding all of you partially to blame, b/c someone should have told me that around book 3 or 4 the series becomes seriously FAE oriented.
I have adequately blame-shifted, so moving on.I knew going into this that I'd be entering a longterm relationship with Harry Dresden.
for a self-proclaimed, socially awkward wizard with very little relationship experience, Harry Dresden finds himself surrounded by beautiful, flirtatious women with uncommon frequency .
Harry Dresden is a realistically likable character who I have a suspicion will turn out to be quite formidable, and Butcher lays a promising foundation with this first installment.
Summer Knight (The Dresden Files, #4) by Jim Butcher
Reasonable Rates.No Love Potions, Endless Purses, or Other Entertainment.I’m coming to the party late, as I write this review Storm Front has over 160,000 ratings on Goodreads, so a lot of fantasy fans are already well acquainted with Harry and what a cool series Butcher has created.
This provides an almost endless assortment of possible magical / occult / fantasy settings for Harry to explore and Scooby Doo mysteries to solve.
The first volume in the Dresden Files series introduces us to our hero, Harry Dresden, a wizard who is also a private investigator and police consultant.
It is written in a breezy, colloquial style that makes you want to keep reading, but except for a few interesting magical twists on the private dick genre (e.g., Harry's tipster is a faery, lured with a bowl of milk and honey and confined within a magic circle until Harry gets the information he needs), the book is thin on plot, lacking in wit and deficient in interesting characters.
Maybe they get better.
I might read the second volume sometime.
Harry’s only got a limited time to prove them wrong … especially since several people would find it extremely convenient if Harry were dead.I thought Storm Front was reasonably good for an urban fantasy and a series starter, though I suspect my lowered expectations had to do with my ending the book feeling pleasantly surprised.
I appreciated that Jim Butcher creates an unusually interesting backstory around Harry Dresden, fleshing out his world, without feeling the need to fully reveal all yet.Don’t expect a whole lot ― just a fun, if sometimes quite dark, paranormal mystery with which to while away a couple of hours ― and I think you won’t be disappointed.
Kidnapped!Before I go any further, let me set the record straight: a lovely girl named Heather will have you believe Harry is hers.
Don't take take anything she might say too seriously: 1-She has a great sense of humour and 2-Delightful as she may be she is also slightly delusional.♥♥ Why I feel in love with Harry Dresden even though he isn't a total, complete, utter aggravating asshole (view spoiler)[multiple gasps welcome here (hide spoiler)] ♥♥① He's male.
→ Harry's pretty good at summoning stuff and doing wizardly things.
Yes, this is me being considerate so get over it.→ Harry's pretty good at doing exciting things with his staff.
He has his good sides and bad sides and plenty of flaws, and despite that he’s not particularly complex, it’s refreshing to read a book from the viewpoint of a guy like this.
Sadly, Harry is the only real character in the book.
And while some of these characters are really interesting despite all that, it’s just not enough.Storm Front is a book which attempts to do quite a lot and falls a bit short in almost every area.
Okay, some who have looked at my other reviews will immediately note I gave this book 5 stars which I noted earlier I save for very special books.
I plan to give the Dresden books (so far anyway) 5 stars.
Well while they are not Dumas or Dickens (but then again...I'm not sure I'd regularly be giving Dickens 5 stars, how much Dickens can we all really take anyway???) these are wonderful absorbing reads.
well, anymore and I might give a spoiler...read the book, you'll love it!If your only exposure to Dresden has been the short lived TV series then you have a great surprise in store and a whole list of great books to look forward to (in a way I envy you).
But while the rules of Butcher's magic system were somewhat well explained when they were actually brought up, I never really felt like the system as a whole was clearly defined, and because of this, I was never entirely sure what was and wasn't possible.
(hide spoiler)] And I swear that in just about every situation in which Harry had to use magic (and there weren't as many as I thought there would be considering this is a book about a wizard) he would say/think something along the lines of "I'm too exhausted/wounded to produce enough energy for magic." Yet he would still somehow manage to create magic.
“Paranoid? Probably. But just because you're paranoid doesn't mean there isn't an invisible demon about to eat your face.” ― Jim Butcher, Storm Front🌟3.75/5🌟So I heard that this series gets better after each release, i guess we shall see :)!!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
Harry has about three days to figure it out since the magical community is pretty sure he is the primary suspect.
Enough hints are dropped about Harry and his past to make him pretty interesting and so I’m looking forward to seeing how that starts to play out throughout the series.All and all a pretty good start and better than I expected because rumor has it that the series doesn’t really pick up until book 3 or 4.
That guy nails Harry Dresden's character and breathes new life into him.
His carefree "whatever yeah here I'm reading the book, alright?" tone was awesome.
It also made me realize how one of the only adjectives Butcher knows is the word "naked".
Everything and everyone in the book is naked at some point.
Harry walks outside with naked feet.
I'm having a good time, and I hear things only get better as the series progresses.
I've read the next two books before and then quit.
Anyway, I hope I enjoy those s little more this time around and plow through the other books.
It's like Goosebumps for adults.
This is not a perfect novel, it had a few flaws here and there, but it was enjoyable overall.Harry Dresden reminded me of a lot of characters that I love.
And wizards don't use magic to kill people.
I was expecting the same form Dresden, but didn't get what I wanted.
I was expecting a lot of magic spurting out of his staff and all, but the magic present in the novel was mellow.
There were a lot of action in the novel, but I wanted it to be more badass than it was.
Despite this being a  huge  series, this novel still ended with closure.
This is an updated review. My name is Harry Blackstone Copperfield Dresden. Conjure by it at your own risk. When things get strange, when what goes bump in the night flicks on the lights, when no one else can help you, give me a call. I'm in the book. Harry Dresden is a wizard living in modern Chicago who works as a private investigator for all things supernatural or paranormal. He wears a black duster coat, carries a staff (well, a blasting rod in his own words) and has a basement where he conc
Harry Dresden is a wizard living in modern Chicago who works as a private investigator for all things supernatural or paranormal.
The Dresden Files is probably one of the most spoken of urban fantasy series and it will be remiss of me not give it a try.
As many fans will proclaim that the series improve with each and every book, I will undoubtedly continue with the series given that it does not take much time commitment for the entertainment value it presents.This review can also be found at Booknest
It certainly wasn't Buffy or X-Files caliber, as far as paranormal television goes, but it was great escapism fun with some interesting characters.
As I'm likely to do after discovering that something I watched and enjoyed was based on a book, I went out and got the first book in the series.I read the 300-pages of Storm Front in less than 24 hours, and it was such a relief to read something light after a lot of the books I've been reading lately.
Harry Dresden lists himself under "Wizard" in the phone book, and basically serves as a private eye.
Many of my goodread friends are also Harry Dresden fans and there seems to be a general acknowledgement that the first three books are good but the series gets better over time.
I remember when I first read this, I wasn't completely sold on the faeries or Bob. But now I realise with hindsight how brilliant the first book is!
It's all here right in the first book.Harry Dresden: his skills, his wish to do what is right and good., his chivalry, his practical applications of magic, the faulty technical equipment around him...
Dear Harry Blackstone Copperfield Dresden, First of all, the audiobook edition of this story is freaking incredible.
I easily kept up with the world-building and I loved what the author created.
I loved everything about it, actually.
My only issue with this story was that it was a bit "the world is conspiring against me" for my tastes.
So much $hit doesn't go Harry's way that it became a bit painful for me to read at times.
However, all signs point to me loving this entire series so I have the next book locked and loaded, ready to read!
Urban fantasy about a modern day wizard who acts as a consultant for the Chicago police.
The narrator for the audio book managed to sound world weary and dour the entire time, which was actually rather impressive.My favorite part is when Bob, the spirit of intellect that Harry keeps around as a sort of wizard computer/database, advised using tequila as the base for a love potion.
We get to meet a fairy, who acts very much like I imagine one would, demons, a wizard guardian, vampires, and more.
This was my first time reading Urban Fantasy and I found it to be an enjoyable read with a funny, likeable protagonist, fast placed plot filled with plenty of twists and turns and an extensive cast of diverse, well-written secondary characters.
That being said I’m really not a fan of detective stories in general so fans of that kind of work might actually enjoy these tropes.The world-building in this book was fairly sketchy and vague.
(hide spoiler)] Complaints aside Harry was mostly a cool character and I really enjoyed how his intriguing backstory was slowly revealed as it became involved in the plot rather than through an info-dump.
Having grown up in the Chicago area, it's very cool to see this fine city through the eyes of an interesting guy like Harry.
He also works for the Police Department solving crimes of an unusual nature.This is like most starter books in a series, it doesn't exactly get off the ground running.
So we see Harry trying to stay one step ahead of the very intimidating magical enforcer, Morgan.
I must say I love the later books more because the introductory stuff is out of the way, but this was a solid entry and a grand introduction to the wonderful, endearing Harry Dresden, Wizard for Hire.
Hot damn, that was a fun read! I know full well the reason I've been avoiding the series was that I would get hooked, and have even more books on my to-read shelf, but I just can't help it! Dresden is a sarcastic, bitter, tongue in cheek rogue that would make Han Solo proud. The plot moves quickly, the action is imaginative, and the humor puts the perfect cherry on top. What a great character!
Solid. A good introduction to the world, the character and the magic. It finished up the main plot nicely and left some very interesting threads dangling that are undoubtedly pursued in later books. Several people told me that this was one of the 'weaker' Dresden books. I'll take that to mean that they just get better and better, as I found nothing weak here to complain about.
So I've been meaning to revisit these first three books for quite a while now, because I knew I would like them more if I gave them another go, knowing what I know now about the characters and the world, and how much Butcher's writing has improved on all fronts.Also, I really really wanted to listen to the audio versions of the first three books, since I read the paperbacks the first time through, and James Marsters is life.
But I am suprised at the negative reviews, as many complaints could be raised against the genre as a whole, but if you pick up an urban fantasy book - don't you know what you're getting into?
And even despite this, the book is still original, well planned out, and generally very good.If you want to find sexism in UF, try the Anita Blake series, thats 10 times worse, except no one would complain about that because it's the Woman surrounded by Good-looking males.
I have never seen a single wizard in Urban Fantasy use potions before now, I have to say it was the best bit for me.
Actually, I started with the TV series, for once. And it was a rather atmospheric show with the exception of that charred body too naturalistically (for my liking!) shown, which I managed to watch during my lunch. Totally ruined that freaking lunch! Offputting, that's what it was. And it put me off for, like, 5 years in reading the series. But now I still am here, ready to enjoy this installment to my everlasting paranormal reading addiction. And from the very start this novel feels superb. I think I'll stay with this series for the long run.
