https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266484.The_Fifth_Column_and_Four_Stories_of_the_Spanish_Civil_War
این کتاب به درد کسی میخوره که تمام آثار همینگوی رو خونده باشه و یک طرفدار دو آتیشه اش باشه.
برای من که تا حالا هیچی از همینگوی نخونده بودم تجربه بدی بود.
داستان ها به شدت بی سر و ته بود و من یکی که هیچی ازش سر در نمیاوردم.پ.ن: کلا دلیل خرید این کتاب گیر کردن تو رو در بایستی بود.
وارد یک کتاب فروشی تازه تاسیس شدم فروشنده بنده خدا 45 دقیقه داشت انواع و اقسام کتاب ها رو معرفی میکرد برام.
روم نشد دست خالی بیام بیرون.
به خاطر جلد خوش رنگش این کتاب رو انتخاب کردم.
The important thing about this collection is that it is Hemingway and it is about the Spanish Civil War. Without that understanding, this would be a play and 4 stories from a generic writer/survivor of that war.The reason I read this is that in the recent: Writer, Sailor, Soldier, Spy: Ernest Hemingway's Secret Adventures, 1935-1961 Nicholas Reynolds poses that in fear of the HUAC Hemingway suppressed production of his only play, “The Fifth Column”.
While the character of Max, Stalin’s recruiter, may be a bit close to the sore point, I also suspect “The Fifth Column” never made it to the stage because it was a lousy play and Hemingway knew it.
Hemingway famously chronicled the Spanish Civil War (For Whom the Bell Tolls) being his most prominent work from the period.) Probably most Americans' knowledge of that conflict comes as much from him as from history texts, since the whole thing got pretty much drowned out by WWII.
Unfortunately, the western powers felt more comfortable with people like Stalin and Franco than with mercurial revolutionaries, so there was little support and little success for the insurgents.The volume which contains the play The Fifth Column and Four Short Stories gives another take on the action in that conflict.
Butterfly and the tank, Ernest Hemingwayعنوان: پروانه و تانک؛ نویسنده: ارنست همینگوی؛ مترجم: رضا قیصریه، انتشارات فاریاب؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، فاریاب، 1364، در 156 ص، موضوع: داستان جنگهای داخلی اسپانیا از 1936 تا 1939 میلادیچهار داستان کوتاه درباره ی جنگ داخلی اسپانیا است . خبرچینی، پروانه و تانک، شب قبل از نبرد، در زیر ستیغ
Butterfly and the tank‬, Ernest Hemingwayعنوان: پروانه و تانک؛ نویسنده: ارنست همینگوی؛ مترجم: رضا قیصریه، انتشارات فاریاب؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، فاریاب، 1364، در 156 ص، موضوع: داستان جنگهای داخلی اسپانیا از 1936 تا 1939 میلادیچهار داستان کوتاه درباره ی جنگ داخلی اسپانیا است . خبرچینی، پروانه و تانک، شب قبل از نبرد، در زیر ستیغ
It’s worth noting that he had made friends with some morally questionable characters in Madrid, including a group of Soviet generals and a highly placed Spanish Stalinist, who is the model for the menacing all-powerful totalitarian spymaster characters in both “The Fifth Column” and “The Denunciation.” So Hemingway got caught up in wartime politics, which is probably a mistake for any creative artist.
In sum, this book is indispensable if you’re interested in Hemingway, Spain, Madrid, and/or the Spanish Civil War. It’s an entertaining read, too – not a classic, perhaps, but well worth the read.
Both would have been better if they'd been from the point of view of someone actually central to their events (the narrator in "The Denunciation" really should have been the Spanish waiter, who spent the story wrestling with a genuine moral crisis and is the only character who actually does anything, but whose role is reduced to showing up at Hemingway's table every couple of pages to reiterate how torn he feels) rather than the writer sitting back and watching it all unfold.
Being a Spaniard myself, I could recognize the places, some of them still being part of the city, like Chicote, I could remember the memories of my grandparents regarding that war, the fact that even if life had stopped once the war started, it really didn't and people just tried to lead a normal life even in spite of the scarcity of food or the fact that bombs may fall at any moment of the day or night, and you can die in the streets or at home.
The Fifth Column was actually pretty decent and a lot better than I thought it was going to be. However some areas were still a little weak.. Just basic, forgettable... The 4 short stories again were nothing special but at least enjoyable to read, compared to plenty of other Hemingway short stories. Overall a nice little collection and one I'd recommend reading.
"The Fifth column" is a play and I wasn't enamored of it. Plays are not for reading anyway. The four short stories are quite good. Probably 4 stars for the stories, and 2 stars for the play.
In de ene kamer Dorothy Bridges, een knappe, maar nogal simpele en verwaande Amerikaanse, in de andere haar geliefde Philip Rawlings, contraspion voor de Spaanse Republiek.
Niet alleen hanteert Hemingway een geweldig gevoel voor ironie, maar ook taal en uitspraak worden het voorwerp van humor.
De humor werkt daardoor ook op verschillende lagen, zoals wanneer de hotelmanager Preston, een andere Amerikaan, probeert te overtuigen de politie niet op te roepen bij een dispuut met Philip, die Prestons kamer heeft ingepalmd.MANAGER.
Als Philip hem vertelt dat hij zijn relatie met Dorothy wil stopzetten, pleit hij voor zachtheid: 'Remember to be kind.
If this was any indication of Hemingway's ability as a playwright, thankfully this was the only play he ever wrote.
Even with his name on it, it is seldom dragged out and performed (again, thankfully).I will say that reading Ernie makes me laugh and cringe at the same time - dear God, the size of the ego on the man - to the point of making himself into a hero and fighter that he wasn't.
Reads quickly, and maybe for Hemingway completists only.
Read "A Moveable Feast" recently, lived in Oak Park for some parts of my life - so rereading some Hemingway.
আমাদের জীবনটা নানা রকম সুখ-দুঃখ, পরেম-ভালোবাসায় পরিপূরণ। আবার সবকিছুর মাজে রয়েছে দবায়িতব বলে একটি শবদ। যার মধযথেকে অনেকসময়ই আমরা বের হতে পারি না। গলপটা তিনজন মানুষকে নিয়ে। ফিলিপ, পরেসটন আর ডরোথি। ফিলিপ হচছে কমিউনিসট আর পরেসটন ফযাসিসট। পেশা তাদের এক। কিনতু রাজনীতির কষেতরে ভিনন হওয়ার কারণে নিজেদের ভিতর একটা বযকতিগত বিরোধ তৈরী হল। আর এ নিয়েই এ কাহিনীর সূতরপাত। যা শেষটায় রয়েছে দারুণ এক রোমাঞচ।
আমাদের জীবনটা নানা রকম সুখ-দুঃখ, প্রেম-ভালোবাসায় পরিপূর্ণ। আবার সবকিছুর মাজে রয়েছে দ্বায়িত্ব বলে একটি শব্দ। যার মধ্যথেকে অনেকসময়ই আমরা বের হতে পারি না। গল্পটা তিনজন মানুষকে নিয়ে। ফিলিপ, প্রেসটন আর ডরোথি। ফিলিপ হচ্ছে কমিউনিস্ট আর প্রেসটন ফ্যাসিস্ট। পেশা তাদের এক। কিন্তু রাজনীতির ক্ষেত্রে ভিন্ন হওয়ার কারণে নিজেদের ভিতর একটা ব্যক্তিগত বিরোধ তৈরী হল। আর এ নিয়েই এ কাহিনীর সূত্রপাত। যা শেষটায় রয়েছে দারুণ এক রোমাঞ্চ।
Not especially enamored of the eponymous stage play, but the four short stories are excellent Hemingway, and entirely redeem the collection. The foreigners and Spaniards drawn to the Spanish Civil War live through the daily dramas and tribulations of life under uncertainty of tomorrow, but all return in their orbits to Chicote’s: bar, restaurant, and hub of social (and socialist) interaction in Madrid.
One star deducted for the hasty pacing and occasional noir cheesiness of the play, but the four stories that follow are gripping, poignant, and very much on the par of EH’s other war-related short stories. Would recommend.
This is a neat little volume. I must like the play The Fifth Column better than anyone else here at Goodreads; and the four stories are very good, too.
Boring
Had not previously read the play. Sad, funny, and typical Hemingway.
Schonungsloser Bericht über den Spanischen Bürgerkrieg!
Philp es un personaje tan vibrante, como Hemingway. Su misión es ver y disfrutar; todo sin dejar de seguir adelante.
(He not only excused such acts but in the case of Dos Passos’s friend who was executed by the secret police, belittled Dos Passos and told him without evidence and on no authority that his friend was a spy.) In the play, Phillip, the main character, tries to exercise fine judgment in determining which acts deserve capital punishment and is naïve in believing that his intervention will save a young soldier who fell asleep on duty.
Much as Orwell’s journalistic descriptions of the conflicted politics of Barcelona during the same time period, these fictional pieces lay bare some of the suspicions, tensions, camaraderie and hostilities that gripped Republican Madrid during the Civil War. As historical fiction, they are far better testimonies of the times than is For Whom the Bell Tolls.Philip Rawlings (another Hemingway alter ego) is the dominant character of Hemingway’s only play, which is centered for most of the time in two rooms of Madrid’s Hotel Florida.
The Fifth Column and Four Stories of the Spanish Civil War should be re-named Tales from the Chicote Bar because a lot of the stories center around, take place in, or stop by for a drink at the Chicote.
This is clearly because Hemingway, going for authenticity and having first hand experience with the Spanish Civil War, understood that the Chicote was an important location for this bloody conflict...about as important if not more so than Ebro!It certainly is not because Ernie is a raging alcoholic.
داستان اول، «خبرچيني»، داستان كافهي چيكوته است كه پاتوق خيلي از «آدمهاي باصفا» است «و از آنجا كه آدمهاي واقعاً باصفا معمولاً شجاعتر هم هستند، و شجاعترها زودتر كشته ميشوند، عدهي زيادي از مشتريهاي قديمي چيكوته حالا مردهاند.» تمام داستان حول «شخصيت» همين بار ميگردد؛ تمام مشتريان بار عاشق آنجا هستند و آنجا را بهترين بار دنيا يا دستكم يكي از بهترينها ميدانند.اسپانيا درگير جنگ داخلي ميان طرفداران ژنرال فرانكو و طرفداران دولت ضدفاشيست است. بار چيكوته در مادريد است كه در دست نيروهاي دولت است. در اين ميا
د‌‌‌استان اول، «خبرچيني»، د‌‌‌استان كافه‌ي چيكوته است كه پاتوق خيلي از «آد‌‌‌م‌هاي باصفا» است «و از آنجا كه آد‌‌‌م‌هاي واقعاً باصفا معمولاً شجاع‌تر هم هستند‌‌‌، و شجاع‌ترها زود‌‌‌تر كشته مي‌شوند‌‌‌، عد‌‌‌ه‌ي زياد‌‌‌ي از مشتري‌هاي قد‌‌‌يمي چيكوته حالا مرد‌‌‌ه‌اند‌‌‌.» تمام د‌‌‌استان حول «شخصيت» همين بار مي‌گرد‌‌‌د‌‌‌؛ تمام مشتريان بار عاشق آنجا هستند‌‌‌ و آنجا را بهترين بار د‌‌‌نيا يا د‌‌‌ست‌كم يكي از بهترين‌ها مي‌د‌‌‌انند‌‌‌.اسپانيا د‌‌‌رگير جنگ د‌‌‌اخلي ميان طرفد‌‌‌اران ژنرال فرانكو و طرفد‌‌‌اران د‌‌‌ولت ضد‌‌‌فاشيست است.
د‌‌‌ر اين ميان يكي از د‌‌‌وستان قد‌‌‌يمي راوي د‌‌‌استان كه او نيز مشتري چيكوته است به بار مي‌آيد‌‌‌.
No costa gaire veure que es tracta del propi Hemingway.
El llibre inclou 5 relats mes sobre la guerra civil, dos d'ells extraordinaris, ambientats al que en aquells dies era un dels bars mes populars de Madrid, el Chicote.
"The denouncment" un relat sobre un xivatasso letal amb un final sorprenent, a l'alçada dels millors contes de l'autor.
"The Butterfly and the Tank", un altre explendid relat que explica de forma crua l'assassinat a sang freda d'un eixelebrat bromista ex-combatent en una escena tant rara com una papallona que s' atura sobre un tanc.
Hemingway's three act play The Fifth Column reminds me of my thoughts after reading Hemingway's poems: Papa needs to stick to prose!
Hemingway's drama isn't as embarrassing as his poetry, but it's a far cry from his novels, and certainly not in the same league as the four short stories that follow the play in this collection, which are not top shelf Hemingway stories to begin with.
Only Hemingway could toss off the character tag "Moorish Tart" (even after establishing the character's name as Anita!), only to switch the tag to "Anita" in the subsequent acts!
As others have already mentioned Hemingway's play The Fifth Column was somewhat disappointing but the short stories were interesting.
And although I enjoyed these short stories and love Hemingway's elegant simple prose style, the combination of the two leaves these stories somewhat lacking.
Hemingway is at his evocative and emotive best when there is ample space to develop plot and characters and I love his capacity to make you feel so much in spite of his minimalist prose.
So although I found this a reasonably enjoyable read, I do not think Hemingway's short stories are anywhere near as good as his novels.
Wonderfully written play; it seemed that many were disappointed with the lack of plot and character development, however I was entertained with the quality and wit that is Hemingway's writing, as well as his ability to capture an authentic glimpse of the daily civilian struggles during the Spanish Civil War, set in Madrid. If you have read EH before, the two main characters Philip and Bridges are no strangers. They embody the vanity and self-loathing that Hemingway characters almost always seem to possess, from Brett in the Sun Also Rises, to Hemingway himself in the Dangerous Summer.
In Hotel Florida the writing and publishing of this book is mentioned so I had to read this.
Recently this play was performed in London and several reviewers state Hemingway only wrote one play and this is why.
I thought it difficult to read.
Towards the end of the play Dorothy and Philip at together and Philip is mentioning all the places he has been and seen.
"Or what about Malindi where you can surfboard on the beach and the northeast monsoon..." Hemingway went to Kenya in 1933 and he mentions surfboard.
Was there really surfing there?
There is surf but in 1933 I need to Google more.
Hemingway, Ernest. THE FIFTH COLUMN: A PLAY. (1937). ***. Hemingway’s only full-length play, set in Madrid, attempts to show the effects of war on diverse functionaries stationed in the city during hostilities. Lots of characters and lots of scene changes fail to keep the action moving forward. The various groups of soldiers, civilians, and correspondents in the play are mostly stock characters from central casting without any real depth. I found the play ultimately disappointing.
The Fifth Column is Ernest Hemingway’s only full-length play, written whilst his hotel was under constant bombardment from artillery shells during the Spanish Civil War. I read it in one day with a hangover and so not much of it actually sank in – my main memory of it is of the repetitiveness of the artillery fire, and the competence of his writing. That’s it, competent – maybe it’d be better if I saw a performance instead.
