https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/946351.Sex_in_History
Still, this book gives us a grounding from an informed liberal perspective and it should have the effect, if read today, of enabling us to remain highly cautious of dabbling in our sexual lives by priests, governments and 'respectable' feminists.If there is a criticism, it is that Tannahill takes perhaps at too much face value the mythic narrative of patriarchy, forgetting that male power is rarely a matter of black and white but has depended on women choosing to accept the situation and then manage it from within.
That makes somewhat hair raising reading to say the least.Certainly this overview does support the idea that the vast majority of the human race thinks with their sex organs, if you can call the hormonal imperative thinking.
Even more depressing when reading history is how bad intentions quite often have unintended good results, and how "good" intentions are most often driven by moral and religious delusions, and so of course end in disaster.
Men of course are only interested in planting their semen in as many receptacles as possible, being even more hormonally ruled than women.
Tannahill’s prose is very engaging, and it would have been a pleasure to read except for a few things.-The book was published in 1980, which means that her entire first section is completely worthless, thanks to the anthropological discoveries that have taken place since then.-Because I knew I couldn’t trust the anthropological information, I didn’t feel that I could trust the archaeological information, an area where I am substantially less knowledgeable.-Tannahill indulges in a fair amount of speculation about motives, emotions, etc.-Tannahill uses single sources to make a point when there are many differing ones to choose from.
On occasion, her generalizations are exceptionally heavy-handed; she presents an overly monolithic view of marriage ages in early modern Europe—ignoring the regional distinctions that some scholars had already begun to make by 1980—when it surely would have taken little additional space and effort to provide readers with a more accurate view of developments.Although Tannahill is refreshingly candid on the subject of sex, her book is nonetheless a product of its times.
Throughout, the place of women in society runs as a leit motif, coming to dominate the text by its conclusion.What particularly struck me was the treatment of the history of sexual mores in China.
Although I've read some classics of sexology, I'd never come upon so thorough a treatment of the subject as this, particularly as regards the traditional Taoist understanding of human sexuality.
Among the civilized cultures of the antique world, Taoist China (and, derivatively, Japan) alone had significant regard for women in the sense of regarding female pleasure in sex as being vitally important.
Half of this book is really gender in history, which is fine. I'm not sure how much of the earlier chapters would be changed due to recent discoveries, but there are some interesting theories in this book.
You'll find as much discussion on feminism and Victorian morals in these pages as you will Greek dildoes, Egyptian contraception and Tantric sex positions.It ranges from the very earliest records of human history to the modern day (or almost - this book was published in the 1980s), from the palaeolithic era to the AIDS epidemic.
Indeed, one of the more fascinating aspects of this book is just how inventive and imaginative human sexual history truly is.
One wonders if it might be our sexual imagination that truly distinguishes us from the animals, rather than our supposed higher intelligence...
Far and away the most comprehensive resource on this history of sex that I have ever read, and I took a full course on the subject.
Trannahill covers everything from prehistoric man, to the ancient civilizations of Greece, Rome, Egypt, China, India etc.
The Islamic world and its influence over other places during the crusades is also covered as is America from colonial times to now.
I mean, Playboy called it "required reading." That is not to say that it is less academic.
Truly a treasure for those of us who consider the history of sexuality and gender relations to be a cornerstone of historical study.
Generally an interesting and well-written book, although the breadth of the subject matter does seem to defeat the author's efforts at times. One comment: Speaking as someone well-read in human evolution and prehistory, skip that section. As near as I can tell, the author hasn't a clue what she's talking about on anything that happens before the historical period. If you want real information on the subject of sex in human prehistory, take a look at  Frans de Waal's books.
this book covers the roles of the sexes since the beginning of mankind in a multi- cultural and historical perspective. it is fascinating to see how long and why women had been subservient to men. learning about ancient greece, taoism, yin and yang, ancient asia-- times when sex was not only accepted openly but encouraged and considered a neccesity. i have never been so interested in learning about history and religion, i guess the context is what matters!
Really fascinating and detailed book on the views of sex throughout history. From open sexuality, homosexuality, to the restricted Church-version of sex for procreation ONLY, to devices to protect boys and men from nocturnal emissions because it was related to the Devil. A lot of info packed into this book. Also wanted to add the book comes across as funnily sarcastic. Granted it might be my own thoughts coming through it, but I was literally laughing out loud with this book.
This book looks at both sex and popular attitudes towards sex around the world, right through from pre-historic times to the 1980s. Well-researched and very readable. Usually I use "digressive" as a bit of a slam, but this book is actually entertainingly digressive -- of course, if you're not as much of a geek for women's studies/sociology as I am, you may disagree.
I liked this book. Obviously, a single tome encompassing the whole of human history and many diverse cultures and sexual orientations is not going to be exhaustive, but nevertheless it holds plenty of interesting facts and the writing is often witty.
Interesting in places but in others badly dated....I can't remember where I read it but it was a warning about reading history books that were over 30 years old because the theories and ideas are often well out of date and sadly so it is with this.
Thereafter, the dolphin continues to be rewarded, but now for novel behaviors only, at which point the dolphin got really excited and started performing novel and previously unseen behaviors in such a flurry that there was no way to keep track of them.
The study's author notes that it takes people about as long as it does dolphins to figure out that they are being rewarded for novel behaviors, at which point dolphins explode in a flurry of novel behaviors, while people are merely relieved.How can we-- people-- be such amazing boors, confident that we are masters of the world even as we destroy it?
If I'd had more time with the book, I likely would have made the effort to finish it, but some of the early parts were already bothersome.
That information is echoed from books dating up to the early twentieth century.
As a cross-cultural overview of castration in history, the basic facts she pieced together seem straightforward and unobjectionable — they're in every book on the subject — but I was less willing to trust her interpretations of the meaning of castration for Chinese boys and for African boys brought to Turkey because I'm not sure what sources of information she privileged and how critical she was willing to be.
The later parts of this ambitious work do a nice job of covering both sex and sexism across cultures and time periods.
But when one declares what sex was like in say, the Edo period, it's obvious that we have a bunch of evidence including diaries, governmental records, drawings, and artifacts.
When one makes declarations about what sex was like in prehistoric times, though, I feel like you need to back up your arguments a little more rigorously.
Especially since a bunch of her declarations sounded pretty bullshitty to me.
Unfortunately, the rest is presented as blatant fact, making it hard to evaluate some of the claims.
This book was written some time ago, and more modern books have recently discovered information not available to Tannahill, but it is fascinating in that it debunks commonly held beliefs, and goes some way toward organizing a more rational view of sex.
I HAVE noticed that our view of sex is important, yet we don't talk about it much.
Tannahill shows a lot of courage writing this book.The research is mind boggling -- she presents art, religion, medicine, governance, family life, and everything else as she discusses especially the role of women throughout history.
This book is interesting, not just because of the topic of sex but because it also gives an overview of world history, political as well as socioeconomic, from prehistoric stone age to the 20th century.
It was fascinating to learn about how sex was perceived in different cultures around the world and how they evolved over time.
The position of women in society at different times was also an interesting topic frequently talked about in this book.
Several historical practices mentioned in this book are shocking; for example, infanticide was a very common method for population controlled practiced basically in all societies!
My primary objection is that both the title and the description are extremely misleading.
It should be "Gender Politics in History" and it should be described as "A view of history from a somewhat dated lens." Not that I disagree with a single thought expressed, but it seems that all of global history can't be uniformly judged by the standards of one specific moment in time.
Tannahill is factually correct in every detail but the book loses some steam when you point out the same injustices in every place, time and culture that ever existed.
And change the title or include sex, one or the other.
This book is interesting and informative.It discusses sexual practices from the earliest days of history and through different cultures.
It isn't always blatant and I understand why she would cover it for the purposes of the romantic idealization of women during the Middle Ages which she says partly came from worship of the Madonna, but she seems to give that more criticism than she does Muslims locking women away into harems and denying the same rights in more blatant ways.It's still a good book for understanding the sexual customs of Rome, Greece, India, and others.
The title of the book is quite accurate, however, this book reads more like a college level cultural anthropology text than anything else.
While sex of all sorts and variations is covered from the ancient Sumerians and Babylonians forward, so are social customs, ownership of property, voting rights, etc.
It is well worth it if you are interested in the historical perspective, because if nothing else, the next time a national figure spouts off on the topic of sex, women's place in society, homosexuality, etc you will know how ignorant they really are.
Excellent and well-researched book, giving unusual and not-obvious reasons for the things we assume to be true about our sexual norms. And shows how they are both socially contingent and not historically normal or necessary at all.Bringing the contingency of social construction of sexual and marriage meanings to a wider audience is an essential and excellent work. Also the biological constraints are considered, but better than many commentators in Britain she doesn't bow to the hegemony of biological determinism. Strains of feminism are welcome, and 30 years later this book is still fresh, thoughtful and insightful.
An impressive history of sexual attitudes and practices in several cultures, including ancient Greece, Rome, the Christian Church, China, India, Islam, and of course the modern West. The style is amusing on occasion, readable but sometimes dense. The author is hostile to practically all moral belief beyond "live and let live," with particular scorn for Christianity. Overall, slightly disappointing for her bias, but can you blame her after being familiar with such varied superstitions through the ages? I still recommend it.
It took me forever to read this book, but I'm glad I pushed through. Oddly, I found the first and last sections to be by far the most interesting, while the middle was kind of a blur of descriptions of prostitution in various cultures. The book is relatively outdated, but I found it useful in narrowing down which portions of the history of sex I find the most interesting (in my case, prehistory and the Victorian era.) Also, while it does spend some time on the Incan, Mayan and Aztec societies, the book is predominantly centered on the Northern Hemisphere.
I bought this eons ago and had it on my shelf as a "future read" and only read it now as a backup to another book. I was pleasantly surprised that it is a very enjoyable and easy read. It corroborates what I know from other sources, so I'm inclined to accept what it says with the usual caveats (unnamed sources, etc). I'm particularly interested in the middle ages/renaissance, and it's inspired me to do some more reading about statuary from the 12th through 16th century. Leading you to a new idea is always the mark of a worthwhile book.
If my high school history classes included this book, I probably would of paid closer attention. The author clearly and easily defines how sex played a part in our human history. It's a meaty (no pun intended) book with 400+ pages, so definitely bring it a long if you're expecting a long trip or have nill to do for an afternoon. *Quick tidbit: Ancient Egyptians used to determine sex of an unborn child by having the pregnant mother urinate on barley and wheat pods wrapped in cloth. Whichever sprouted first, determined the sex.
Sex in History was a very interesting read.
The book is split into time periods, countries, or religions, and how those subjects affected how sex is viewed.
This book is also a history of how man and women treated each other.
Tannahill makes it clear that humans are despicable especially when they deny their instincts.
This book was written in the 80s' so I wish an updated version existed.
I would also have liked a section on the Celts and Vikings.
Instead of chapters on Greeks, Romans, and all of sudden we're on medieval Europe.
Overall, a solid book.
A-MAZING. If you're interested in history--read. If you're intersted in sex--read. I took a course about sex in history, and although this wasn't one of our required texts, our professor lectured on the contents of this book. It is so readable and conveniently separated by time period and geographical location, making for easy reference if you want to skip to an area of particular interst. Totally comprehensive guide to a facinating subject.
This one was closer to a 3.75. It would've been higher had the final section covering the years 1800-1980 not been shoehorned into fifty pages. By making the book such a broad overview, she gave short shrift to topics that could've had books in their own right, such as prostitution in the Victorian era and the development and repression of homosexual communities in the same era. Still, the pre-industrial years were fascinating, sardonic, and well worth the read.
