https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3858.Holy_Cow
Both the 'magical' gurus and the hippie-types who sit at their feet and swoon.Sarah, like the adventuresome Australian she is, backpacks to India, has a crap time, leaves but meets an ugly old soothsayer who tells her she will come back to India and find lurrrrve.
I would never have guessed that the stonedest least spiritual tourists around are the Israelis who are considerably less precious than the sort of hippie type travellers she meets in the Hindu ashrams (think Shantaram).
She sees India as a filthy place full of disgusting people with intolerable cultural habits.
And she spends her free time (while her husband is working in other cities or countries on news stories) traveling around India in search of religion.
What type of person sees poverty and is disgusted by it?
I guess it's this type of selfishness that also keeps her from giving a face and a personality to her husband in her writings.Edit: I much more prefer the attitude of the writer in this article concerning India: http://www.bbc.com/travel/story/20150...
"Holy Cow" by Sarah Macdonald is the author's condescending account of time she spent in India. Her descriptions of what is actually a beautiful, rich, varied culture are narrow-minded and written in a tone that makes it clear she considers herself superior to India and Indian people. It's a shame that she didn't learn anything useful from her travels or absorb any of admirable values of Indian/Hindu culture such as acceptance, open-mindedness and respect for all beings.Last but not least, the cover image of Lord Shiva clad in sunglasses epitomizes the racism and ignorance that fill this book.
I almost had several panic attacks while reading this book.The author, Sarah MacDonald didn't just travel to India for a month or two, she lived there for a year or two and traveled around, exploring as much of India as she could: ashrams, Buddhist monasteries, the Kumbh Mela in Benares, hanging out with a Parsi family, celebrating Passover with some Israeli émigrés, attending a Hindu wedding, and a dozen other adventures in various Indian locales.
Her editor should have rung all the tears and grit from this writer's soul onto the page and really pushed this book over the top.
I read the book while holidaying in Northern NSW.
The reason I read this book was because it was on the bookshelf in the holiday home we had for the week.
Also because it was supposed to talk about India from a Westerners perspective.
Let me put it out there: this book is not a travelogue.
A lot of what she passes off in the book is exaggeration.
In other words, fiction.
Do NOT use this book as a decision-making tool for an Indian holiday.
Describing the book in just one word: Patronising.
A good book that no one should take too seriously. She actually starts off a selfish, egocentric woman aghast at the quality of Indian life and grows into a spiritual investigative journalist of sorts.I traveled to India this past year and her accounts from a western perspective are accurate. But with time, the beauty of India reveals itself to travelers and she shares this with readers.It's a funny memoir that gives a cursory background of the spiritual-religious forces existent in modern India.
India with humor, the only way to take the country in stride.
This book captured the heart and the essence of India and its vast array of religions and cultures, all from the outsiders perspective.
I have read this book a few times and know I will read it again.
A take on India and its many accents all with the drawl of an Australian accident.
This book made me laugh so hard while driving to assignments that I nearly wet my pants.
Perfect read for anyone that has been to India or plans to visit.
OK first up - I haven't read this book and neither do I intend to. The simple reason being that everything a westerner (or an easterner for that matter) had to say about the dichotomy of modern India, has been magnificently captured and related by   and any book by William Dalrymple. That's it. Done. You won't need anything else. But the reason why I am writing this "review" is just one : The issues Indians on this discussion board have with the book's cover. What is so strange/weird/unacceptabl
But the reason why I am writing this "review" is just one : The issues Indians on this discussion board have with the book's cover.
It's not like they showed him smoking weed (Which he smokes by the way..all the time..as per our own mythology) or brandishing an AK-47 or any other weapon (Oh..I see he has his ever present trident..never mind.)I am an Indian and I am a Hindu and I am completely fed up of people trying to act like they are God's personal SWAT team.
If I could give a book negative stars, it would be this one. This girl seemed to complain about everything she was experiencing in India. I think I yelled at the book every chapter, "GO HOME!" I read the whole thing hoping to witness her enlightenment and was highly disappointed. If you want a book which will give you more insight about India, read Motiba's Tattoos!
It is one of the very few books which I have re-read and enjoyed.Sarah Macdonald, an Australian journalist, broadcaster and presenter, did not like India on her first visit and never wanted to return.
In this particular book, we find Sarah Macdonald transform from an atheist to someone who begins to enjoy the expansive spiritual roads India offers, its many religions.
I expected an hilarious account of a girl travelling to India, a place where she'd been to previously but never wanted to return to.
If it had been hilarious, at least that would have made me laugh, and I might have been inclined to overlook the superficiality of her journey more generally.I also didn't appreciate that she constantly harped on about how dirty India is - admittedly, I haven't been to India but I would expect it not to be as clean as Australia in any shape or form.
I tried, I truly tried to finish it, but with so many wonderful books out there waiting to be read, I couldn't justify spending another minute listening to this poor, lost woman attempt to "find herself" or the meaning of life that she was so desperately seeking.I had read reviews mentioning that there was a lot of "religion" here and knowing India's varied religious background, I was prepared for some of that.
I was looking for a book that explored the people, the cultures and the sites of India from the perspective of an "outsider." While there was a bit of that, mostly this book became a tedious exploration, not of Indian sites, people and regions, but almost solely of one woman's attempt to find meaning in life through the various religious practices found there.
After reading first chapter, I realized what I am heading to, but continued to read, as a bestseller should have some salt.
Where ever by mistake she said anything seemingly +ve, same sentence has some very -ve thing to turn overall impact to be a -ve one.The final message she gave is, stay in India made me love Australia, and probably she loved India for this fact.Last but not the least, in first chapter she said number Zero was not discovery of India but an Arabian country.
I enjoyed it and felt a little ashamed for enjoying it so much. The best chapter is the one about the Vipassana ten-day meditation boot-camp. I've done that, and she nailed it. The tone of the book bothers me, though. It's written from a position of comfortable privilege: an American middle-class woman survives the hardships of travel in India. I think the author genuinely responds viscerally and spiritually to India, but I'd rather read a less-mediated version of India from, say, Arundhati Roy, or Bapsi Sidhwa.
I wish I could give this book zero stars. What a condescending, racist piece of garbage. Why write about going to India if you didn't even like it? I saw this book sold in stores everywhere in India and I wish they would take it off the shelves. Sarah MacDonald is a peddler of lies about this truly phenomenal country. Please don't read it.
It's called a different culture, goddammit!As mentioned, the book does become better in terms of content once she starts actually living in India, as she transforms from tourist to resident, and as she starts trying to experience and understand the religions, the spirituality and the people.
She learns from Buddhism about controlling the mind, from Hinduism about respecting other paths, from Islam about surrender, from Jainism to make peace in all aspects of life, and from Sikhism about the importance of spiritual strength.Sarah Macdonald does end the book with the expectedly patronising lines on how much she has changed as a person, how she's realised how much privileged she is, how much she's learnt and irrespective of how exasperating India is, she feels a force pulling her and somehow India feels like home for the soul.
The problem started when some of Sarah's anecdotes were just too fantastic, and clearly written in such a way as to convince her audience of jaded Westerners that the possibility of magic still exists in India.
While how Sarah decides to tell her story is just that--her decision--I felt a bit let down.
But her purpose seemed to be more than that, to tell of her spiritual journey in India, the growth she experienced as a result of sampling a number of different religions.
Holy Cow: An Indian Adventure by Sarah Macdonald3.5 stars'In India I’ve travelled a soul’s journey: from hedonism to sickness, from silence to song, from violence to peace and from learning to die to celebrating life.'The above passage beautifully encapsulates this entertaining and thought-provoking travel memoir.
Holy Cow is Sarah Macdonald’s account of the two years she spent in India whilst her partner – a foreign correspondent – was based in Delhi.
I highly recommend Holy Cow for people who enjoy memoirs that take them to exotic locations.
Overall, the book is a memoir of McDonald's visits to various regions of India in search of understanding of India's various religions.I applaud Sarah McDonald for being honest in her writings, even self-deprecating at times.
I also loved how, although a self-professed atheist, she approached each religion with great respect and a genuine desire to understand.I've been in India a week now, at the time of writing this review, and I can say McDonald's book was a great primer to India.
Highly recommended if you want a contemporary, Western perspective on India that's more about true understanding than poking fun at India's idiosyncrasies.
India is on my list of places to visit before I die so till then I can't get enough books to whet my appetite.
Not far into it yet...India is a rollercoaster of a place to describe and so far I'm feeling the pitching and lurching of the extremes possibly more so than what I felt reading Harley's book.
I see the cover blurb mentions Sarah seeking spirituality, but so far it's nothing like that "Eat Pray Love" book- Sarah doesn't approach India with those kind of new age blinkers.
I've read some bad reviews of this book, and therefore have put it off.
Maybe that would have endeared me to her before reading this book, because she needs all the help she can get to make it through those first chapters.However, in a nod to character development, Sarah agrees, she's been a dick.
So she decides her way to get over India, is to learn about their religions (while doing sneaky ABC stories and name drops along the way).
And fair enough, the place is dripping in fascinating religions.
It also shows her transformation from an "extreme cynic attitude" to a more "adaptable and loving attitude" towards the country.Being an Indian, it was interesting to read the perception and subsequent impression that an outsider gets/feels when they visit India.
Though her experiences/adventure are mostly linked to the religious and spiritual side of India.
She experiences almost all possible religions in India by visiting the most important religious places.
However it still comes across as a worthy and interesting read for anyone who lives or wants to see India.
If you come here and try to settle down and live for a couple of years, you will find yourself going through the same learning curve Macdonald went through.
Especially if you live in Delhi like she did.
India is a really tough place to live unless you want to just hide away in a gated community and visit only private clubs and malls via chauffered cars.
If you try to actually go out and live in India, it's tough- and Macdonald learned to do it.
Of course, India is a spiritual destination for many travelers, but Macdonald is different in that she casts a jaded eye, even while embracing all its varieties of religious worship.During her two years as a Western journalist (on sabbatical) in India, she explores a wide variety of Indian religions: from silent meditation retreats to bathing in the Ganges to miracle healers to wild Christian celebrations, she dips her toes into a number of religious practices, giving her readers glimpses into the Indian worlds of Buddhists, Christians, Jainists, Jews, Muslims, Parsis, Sikhs, and Sufis.Lots of interesting things happen to Macdonald that affect her experiences in India: She becomes extremely sick, she meets Bollywood actors, visits Indian nightclubs, attends weddings, loses great chunks of her hair in a culture that practically worships it, requests that a faith healer increase her breast size, and finds herself in the middle of 9-11, with her fiancé bound for Afghanistan.Despite all the ups and downs of the two years Macdonald spent in India, she comes away with not only this book, but her relationship in tact.
Macdonald may have gone in as a selfish and intolerant Westerner but I feel like she came out the other side loving India as much as I do.I know a lot of people wanted more characterization of her husband, and I kind of agree there it would have been nice to have him fleshed out a bit more, but this is ultimately a story of her journey and I think he might have detracted a bit from that.
This was a heart opening book aptly conveying the challenge of living within a culture that brings all of ones judgement, criticism and shadow side to the fore.
The expectation of what it means to be spiritual and the disappointment the ego self encounters when things don't meet ones expectations is a theme that recurs over and over and is a lesson we all visit from time to time.
My point being that her book is rooted in fact that takes you on a journey through the beautiful the bizarre and the ugly, touching on topics from the multitud of different faiths that coexist, through to the issues that females still face today.
Macdonald was a TV journalist in Australia. She leaves the comforts of home for true love, joining her boyfriend, also a reporter, in India. This book recounts her experiences and observations there as she attempts to sample the many forms of religion that India has to offer, including Christianity and Judaism. She is a young woman, without a strong background in religious study, so functions as an everyman, or in this case, an everywoman. She describes her experiences in an engaging manner, noting lessons to be learned from her experience of the sundry belief systems.
Sarah Macdonald was able to backpack around India in her young twenties but swore on her middle finger when she left, she would not return, due to its poverty, the massive smog, and the horrible heat.
It is with some humor she is informed by a stinky man in the airport he foresees her return; Argh!
I am confident that if I could get over whatever was blocking me here I would have continued enjoying what seemed like a richly presented book, however I could not finish.
I really liked the cover, and her spunky attitude!
And I am definitely biased towards books about India and Indians.
I loved it because the author loved India, indians and Indian-ness..The author spends a good two years in India and falls in love - definitely not at first sight.
It was a lot about her spiritual journey and how India welcomes all - from all faith and all religions and from all corners of the world...
The author had experiences to share from different faiths she encountered and her key takeaways.
It felt good to know how someone feels about India, provided they come here with an open mind and an open heart.
I won't put it past people who have never traveled this far south East to think that Indian soil and food are so contaminated that it is the breeding ground for many illnesses.So it doesn't help when an author writes about the eccentricities of this multi-lingual, multi-religious, multi-cultural, ethnically diverse, land and who summed up the nation as a sweeping 200 odd page odyssey.
In its 2000 plus year history of invasions and intruders, it warmly invites anyone who wants to explore, embrace or enjoy its essence.India has always allowed different customs to coexist.
