https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1707716.Treve
The last time I read Terhune I was probably about eleven years old.
And of course all those Sunnybank collie books from the old master, Terhune, about his dogs - Lad, Lady, Wolf, Bruce, Buff, etc.
But the book was published more than eighty years ago, so what the hell, I suppose.Reading TREVE yesterday allowed me to remember myself as a kid, and also reminded me what a terrific yarn-spinner Terhune was.
If you're over sixty and read Albert Payson Terhune as a kid, you'll probably enjoy the trip back.
Nếu sau này có cơ hội sinh ra ở xứ lạnh, mình sẽ nuôi chó chăn cừu Collie.
When I was about 7 until 11 or so, I went through my horse book and dog book phase and read all of Terhune's collie books and horse books from Black Beauty to Smokey.
When I first read it, then, my favorite character was, of course, the dog, Treve.
When I reread it recently, my favorite character was the grouchy, crusty, bad-tempered Fenno who resented Treve and told him constantly how worthless he was.
Of course, Treve's courage changed everything and Fenno became secretly devoted to the dog.
Fenno was the most believable character in the book.
I read this book once, at about age ten.
It was the first Terhune I read.
APT was not a very good writer and I'd probably cringe on re-reading Treve, but I rate the book highly because it made me love collies and border collies so much that my parents got one for me from a ranch in Chino CA.
This was a loving mistake: borders are not meant to be small-town house pets, whether in 1956 or 2014 Follow the work of Donald McCaig on this topic.
Anyway, the book Treve had a big influence on my life.
I first read this book in 1952 in my school library and was powerfully moved by it. Children's literature was not what it is today, and these stories were written for adults. The style was already outdated when I first read it, and takes a certain patience now. But Terhune loved dogs and his descriptions of them are full of heart. I was so pleased to see I could get the book on Amazon and add it to my Kindle library.
Another heart stolenIf there is a heaven, surely it would be inhabited more by"dumb" dogs than by "smart" people. The more I know people, the better I love my dog.
Collie on a cattle ranch! What could be better?
Definitely a very sweet book.
Good read. I liked the afterward about the real dog almost as much as liked the story itself. I'm sure I read some of his other stories when I was young.
