https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48162.Skinwalkers
Those looking for a great mystery series who have yet to discover Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee are in for a treat with Skinwalkers.
Though they've been copied, no one has ever quite blended Native American beliefs and traditions, with modern day mystery in the same entertaining way at which Hillerman was so skilled.Skinwalkers is one of Hillerman's finest pairings of young Navajo Tribal Police Officer, Jim Chee, and the legendary Lt. Joe Leaphorn.
It is a distraction he can't afford once the danger begins escalating.Sprinkled throughout this complex and entertaining mystery novel are insights into the Navajo people, from the way they speak, to their customs and broad family ties.
The cat becomes quite a character in this book.Jim Chee has a Navajo view of animals and hates interfering with them, but he takes mercy on this abandoned manx and even ends up building a little cat door in his trailer so the cat can come in when it wants to.That's what ends up saving Jim Chee's life.But Chee doesn't want to make a pet out of the cat, whom he calls "Cat."That was exactly what he couldn't allow to happen.
But at the same time he was a good man and would never allow any animal to suffer.
Hillerman’s collection of mysteries set in the Navajo/Hopi lands of Arizona/New Mexico/Utah. One side benefit of reading this stories is what the reader learns about historical and contemporary Hopi and Navajo culture. Hillerman has created two attractive detectives, former fabled Navajo tribal policeman Joe Leaphorn and current policeman and apprentice Jim Chee, who is also studying to be a traditional medicine man.
This is my first dip into Hillerman's mystery series featuring Lt. Joe Leaphorn and Officer Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police.
Lots of spooky elements of Navajo witchcraft--not all of which is benign--and a string of deaths that might be the work of a 'skinwalker', a practitioner who has turned away from the traditional harmony of the Navajo Way. Both Leaphorn and Chee are wonderful characters and a pleasure to be with.
There were great descriptions of the Navajo reservation, which stretches across the four corners where Arizona, New Mexico, Wyoming and Colorado meet.
Enjoyed it. As usual, nice description of the landscape and setting. Leaphorn is particularly distracted by his wife's medical issues. Chee is less distracted by his female friends than normal, as things are ending with Mary and he skirmishes professionally with Janet. Suspenseful plot.
Am just beginning yet another mystery that will be totally engrossing....And I finished reading this book I was thinking yes, it was totally engrossing!
As the story continues, Chee begins working with Lieutneant Leaphorn on a murder investigation.
This is no ordinary murder investigation - it is one that involves Navajo skinwalkers!
As you are reading their journey through their investigation, you learn about what the Navajo beliefs are on witchcraft and what skinwalkers are.
You also learn as the story goes along that Chee is somehow involved with the murders.
You also always learn some aspect of Navajo culture as you read Hillerman's books.
In "Skinwalkers" you learn of Navajo witchcraft.
The suspense factor was perfect!!!!!!
The young, impulsive and spiritual Jim Chee teams up with the experienced, methodical and superstition-hating Joe Leaphorn.Like a nonfundamentalist Christian, Chee believed in the poetic metaphor of the Navajo story of human genesis.
To hell with Leaphorn and what he didn't believe.This is a complex tale of what people will do and believe when faced with tragedy, hidden in a crime story (the mystery isn't difficult to solve from early chapters).
Though it is #7 in Hillerman's Navajo Mysteries series, it can be read as a stand-alone.
I haven't read a murder mystery in years, probably not since I was into Agatha Christie as a teenager, but, after reading Hillerman's Skinwalkers, I might start reading more.
I liked both Chee and Leaphorn as the two police officers tackling the case of three seemingly unrelated homicides; they were smart, level-headed, and unpretentious.
Even though I had a suspicion as to who the murderer was throughout the book, the plot was complex enough that I couldn't figure out the mystery until Chee and Leaphorn had pieced it together.
Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee meet up in this thriller.
For Leaphorn's Emma, doctors fear she may have Alzheimer's disease while Jim Chee's Mary Landon remains in Wisconsin to go to graduate school.
Leaphorn and Chee must also team up to find the common thread in a series of four murders.
A lightening fast reading 300 pages features Tony Hillerman's best suspense.
The unique characters come alive off the pages.
It's easy to tell Leaphorn and Chee dislike each other but mesh to solve murders.
If you've never read any of Tony Hillerman's works you're missing something special.
A nice quick mystery about witching and the people that are convinced to do one person's killing in the name of witchery. The ultimate reason for the killings is one of the oldest motives in the book and Chee and Leaphorn do figure it out...almost too late for Chee but since there are so many others in this series I'm not giving anything away to say that Chee survives to work another case or two.
Excellent but strange story set in the Navajo nation. Officer Jim Chee is being stalked by someone who believes he's a witch. The Navajo take witchcraft very seriously and there are a series of related murders. Mr. Hillerman does a great job with the native culture and traditions as well as describing the desert and reservation terrain.
We won't talk about the fact that they weren't even the ones to take down the bad guy because that just felt like a low blow from the author.
We also won't discuss the fact that said bad guy was mentioned a total of around 10 by name.
Between the actual writing, the pacing, and the extraordinarily poor characters I can honestly say I will not be picking up another Tony Hillerman book in the future.
The tension in this one grew and grew as the pages turned...and the ending was surprising and breathtaking. Hillerman delivers again!
I found this particular mystery to be well written, just enough plot to keep me interested in the homicide cases that develop between two officers of the Navajo Tribal Poilce, Lt. Joe Leaphorn and Officer Jim Chee.
Both of these men are main characters in other Tony Hillerman novels, but he brings them together in this multiple homicide thriller about the dark and sinister world of the Navajo witches "Skinwalkers." This is my first Tony Hillerman novel so I don't know if he goes more in depth with the characters in his other novels, but in this one I am left wondering about the lives of the main characters, Lt. Joe Leaphorn and Officer Jim Chee.
I read mystery novels to unwind.
Someone had left one of this series, Coyote Waits, in the place we were staying in New Mexico, and since it's set locally I thought I'd read it.
Have now also read a couple of the other novels in the series and will read more (only problem with them is I get the titles mixed up).
The novels focus on policemen on Native American reservations, and incorporate some Native American philosophies and cultural info while describing Navajo ways of life and their contrasts with Western ways of thinking and being.
Easy to read, and great novels to take a step out of your daily life and relax with.
I'm pretty sure I read most of these early books in the Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee mysteries, but it's been many years and I don't remember much for details.
Leaphorn and Chee are just getting to know one another as they investigate several deaths that are somehow connected, but they can't quite get a handle on how or why.
Leaphorn also believes the attempt on Chee's life--someone pumped three shotgun blasts into his trailer where he should have been sleeping--is tied in as well.As the pieces begin falling into place, Leaphorn realizes that he must track Chee down before he heads into a seemingly unrelated meeting about a Blessing Way sing that could end Chee's life.
Great characters, wonderful sense of place and interesting mystery.
I never thought I'd say this, but oh my word, this book made me homesick! I loved that Skinwalkers explored the the Southwest in a way that felt both really familiar, but also exposed me to details of Navajo culture that were new and fascinating. Tony Hillerman's obvious respect for the Navajo is evident throughout the book, but he doesn't romanticize his view and portrays realistic struggles of reservation life. The mystery is perfectly paced and the detectives compliment each other in really appealing ways. I'm sorry that I didn't pick up this series sooner.
Quickly-paced, engaging whodunit that provided an engaging introduction to lead characters Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn. Suspect I'll be reading more of this series.
That being said, this book did a very good job of weaving in the Navajo traditions and beliefs into the actual story.
Some of the Hillerman books are only very tacitly related to the actual Navajo anthropology, but Skinwalkers managed to make it a natural (and significant) part of the plot.
He has forgotten his gun or lost his gun enough that Leaphorn or Largo should probably make him retake firearm training.But beside Chee's repeated avoidance of his gun, the book flows well and the ending is natural and unforced.
Awesome book, I continue to love Hillerman's books.
I really find this series fascinating. The Indian culture and the Four Corners area is so well described and I feel that not only did I read a great novel, but I learn so much with each book. I do suggest that they be read in order.
An excellent mystery woven into New Mexico landscape. Tony Hillerman never disappointed.
This was a fun little who-done-it mystery novel.
What makes it different from CSI Miami (or whatever crime drama the kids are watching these days - I don't really pay attention to such things) is that it's set in the world of a Navajo reservation.
Although Hillerman himself is not Navajo, he did extensive research to capture the essence of the Navajo culture.
Not knowing much about the Navajo culture myself, from an outsider's perspective, he did an excellent job.Only three stars because I found nothing special about this book.
I will probably forget all about it in a few months.
Whereas in Hilllerman’s first three Navajo Mystery novels, Lt. Joe Leaphorn is the main character; the next three – books 4, 5, & 6, introduce Sgt. Jim Chee, a young reservation law enforcement officer who struggles to find balance between the traditional ways of the Navajo and the white man's world.
There are other murders which compounds the mystery: Who tried to kill Jim Chee?
Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee are not sidekicks; they don't really know each other well.
But the mysteries build, and death continues to stalk the Navajo land.The book is a fast read and is the best of Hillerman’s series to date, especially as he is bringing the two men together.
Skinwalkers, written by Tony Hillerman, was a fictional murder mystery based in theIndian Reservation of New Mexico. The story follows Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn as they encounter many issues when trying to solve the cases. One theme that seemed to stand out was trust, the policemen had to trust each other when investigating the murders; although, they could not trust those around the murders and had to stay careful 24 hours a day. The ultimate goal of having a crazy plot twist at the end was lac
Skinwalkers was very slow to coming a conclusion, with the aforementioned Roosevelt Bistie issue and the long search for meanings of witchcraft that could have possibly led to the motive of murder, but ended up yielding little importance to the final discovery.
The problem with the ending was intensified with the introduction of a new character that was irrelevant otherwise, and it would have been a better plot twist if the mother of the disabled/“witched” baby had been Janet Pete, a lawyer involved in the Bistie case and was friendly to Chee.
When the police officers get too close to the truth, the killer attempts to kill one of the officers by convincing a woman that the police officer is a witch and that by killing him, she will be free from his spells.
The doctor is sacrificing a small number of people in an attempt to save vastly more (if his clinic closes, many, many people will die).
By sending an armed, slightly crazy woman to kill the doctor, the police officer wields her as a weapon to kill the only man in the book who has the moral strength to kill for the greater good.
The end result is a weird hybrid of anthropological study and slice-of-life, where the mystery framework is just an excuse to get a change of scenery and focus on a different cross-section of society.And it's ultimately his knack for description that carries the story - who needs urban fantasy and paranormal stories when there's such interesting "worldbuilding" happening in the real world, every day?
Hillerman spent much of his lifetime learning about the Navajo, not only reading about them but living with them, making friends, trying to understand their society and ways of thinking.
The story incorporates a lot of the rich culture of the Navajo people and deals mostly with the idea of witches and skinwalkers.
Granted, I am reasonably sure this book was published long before the current stampede of political correctness and I found most of the facts interesting, even if I did already know most of them, but there were times when I felt Hillerman's white man syndrome bleeding through.All in all, I enjoyed it and am in the middle of another.
Officer Jim Chee, of the Navajo Tribal Police, tosses and turns one night in the airstream where he lives in the desert.
Navajo witches, or skinwalkers, inject bone into the bodies of people they want to kill.
When Leaphorn and Chee join forces, their first problem is persuading anyone to talk, when tradition holds that speaking a skinwalker’s name will attract his harmful attention.Chee is learning to be a traditional Navajo healer.
Skinwalkers have fallen away and try to take others with them.Leaphorn is not a believer, but he learned by hard experience that other people are.
