https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/759187.Green_Light
It is inspirational; it is thought-provoking; it is a piece of writing which will have the reader clamouring to know what happens next, in full sympathy with the main characters and in awe of the masterful delivery.Lloyd Douglas weaves a tale with a basic lesson: that good eventually does come out of seeming adversity and that hope and faith - kept alive - are essential.
And, with Paige, the reader will fully understand the significance of the 'Green light' as the novel draws to a close.Although Magnificent Obsession still remains my favourite of Lloyd Douglas' books, this one ranks high, as well.
This was a book I read as a kid and have reread once since. It was my favorite book for years. The message for me was indirect: whatever I set my mind to, I can do.
The most popular book each of 1935. I’m going to give this 4 stars because it was a pleasant little read. It was predictable but left you with the feeling that it would make a lovely little rom-com.
Reread from many years ago, it's amazing how my reading tastes have changed, probably as a result of the new style of writing, 'show not tell.' It's still a cracking story though and the writing is exceptional still.Newell Paige is a US mid-west doctor whose mentor, Endicott, is like a father to him.
When Endicott receives news of the 1929 Wall Street Crash, he botches an operation, the patient dies, and Paige takes the blame for it rather than have his elderly hero's reputation damaged.
To escape the ensuing publicity, he runs away and hides under a new persona.
A book that tells a great story about a mane who has faced great personal difficult helping a multiple of people to face difficulties in their lives thru the Christian Faith Read it 50 years ago and just reread it.
A man who saves the name of a fellow sergeon by taking the blame of a fatal mistake in a surgery. He runs away and in time defines himself more in life and becomes aquanted with someone who is tied to the person who died in surgery. A sweet love story along offers some Christian based ideas.
Green light by Lloyd C. Douglas (1935)
A young surgeon claims fault for his mentor's fatal mistake and is removed from hospital staff. His career ruined, he sets out with a new identity for adventures away from the medical field.
Douglas, Lloyd C.
The characterization was what made me read this book of people that lived during the market crash 1930's and a love story to boot!
I read this in my early years. It is the story of doctor error gone wrong. Lloyd C. Douglas is a strong Christian author uniquely powerful for his descriptions and expression of feelings.
