https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/206962.Hop_On_Pop
Call me old fashioned but I think that there is far too much pop hopping going on in America these days. It's disgusting, revolting, quite possibly illegal, and then they turn around and turn it into a children's book? What's next? Leaving two unsupervised children alone with a giant cat? An elephant wedging an egg in his butt? Non-traditionally colored eggs and pork products? A Christmas-thieving scallywag? A fox wearing human undergarments? Oobleck? That just has to be filthy. Where does it end?
And then we might be 22 and 21 year olds and yet we sing in a rhythm invented on our own. " Mr. BROWN Mrs. BROWNMr. Brown upside down.Pup up. Brown down.Pup is down. Where is Brown?WHERE IS BROWN? THERE IS BROWN!Mr. Brown is out of town. " Dr. Seuss injects the wordplay enthusiasm into the bloodstream. Ageless and timeless.
It just didn't do it for me--no character development, no irony, no existential angst, it was almost like a children's book.
At first I thought it was really sad the way the children showed such a great amount of disrespect for their father.
It seems today many children "Hop on Pop" as well as mothers, aunts, uncles, cousins, and even friends in a desperate attempt to get attention in a world where so many children are ignored.
As I read on, it became clear that it was not "teen angst" or "rebellion" that caused them to "Hop on Pop", but an effort to feel loved and spend quality time with dad.
I would recommend "Hop on Pop" to any father who may be having intimacy issues with their children.
I am currently reading this book. And I'll be reading it again in 5 minutes. And 10 minutes after that. It is my daughter's favorite book. A special thanks to Dr. Seuss for making this book tolerable to read over and over.
Why I hate theis wonderful book.“HOP ON POP” by Gerard C. Smith Come "Hop on Pop," my Lisa said And hop of course is what she did Her brother joined in with a jump On Poppa’s tum he went crash-bump Lisa hopped and hopped some more She knocked poor Poppa to the floor Both kids did bounce, each up and down Poor Pop was trounced and he did frown Now he hates that bastard T. Geisel And hopes the rotter roasts in hell
Full of three letter words in a unique and visually practical graphical format Hop on Pop takes the reader through several humerous story about creatures whose actions are characterized by simple phonetically repetitious words.
Hop on Pop was different from any of the other phonics readers I looked at.
An emerging reader can work on one letter changes while confidently following up with the second half of the word which repeats over and over.
The illustrations perfectly describe the text and the books can be enjoyed by adults and children alike.
I love this book and I have read it several times.
My favorite character is Will Hill, he is the one who goes up the hill.
For some reason the author felt compelled to rhyme line after line, but I will not whine because this book is so very fine.
There is danger- when the people playing ball fall off of the wall and when they fight all night, and there are some adult themes like when Red, Ned, Ted and Ed are in bed and when Mr. Black leaves his wife for Mr. Brown.
Otherwise it is a wholesome read, though it does drag on a bit as you get past page 57 where Will Hill is the focus.
An ambitious exploration of social dexterity, "Hop on Pop" may be the most important book of our time. Rather than viewing Pop-hopping as rude or cruel, Seuss argues that it is a delightful, possibly necessary act."Hop on Pop" is the most important, timely book you will ever read. Now excuse me, I've got to find my Pop.
You really can't go wrong with Dr. Seuss. Well, that is, unless you're trying to read this book full of tongue-twisting phrases to your infant daughter. Luckily she won't remember that Daddy didn't do well the first time out -- and that was only on the abridged version of the book! If you want a book to enjoy being utterly silly with your kids with, this is it.
Who doesn't love Dr. Seuss? This is the first book I ever bought and read to my daughter. And she loved it. This book, and owning a dog, probably taught her the word "pup." And it certainly taught her to hop on pop. I know, the book tells you to not hop on pop. But kids don't understand negatives until later. And it's so much more fun to hop on pop anyway.
I have a funny story about a friend and this book. A friend of mine told me that in 8th grade she was assigned the task of writing a book report. My friend noted that the teacher said nothing about the length or level of the book and took full advantage. She chose Hop on Pop. The best part is that she made her book report about parental abuse....
"The simplest Seuss for youngest use". Indeed. Most illustrations come in pairs with the punch-line in the second one. Gotta love a book that shows a kid aggressively biting a tiger's tail or two kids hitting one another in the head with tennis racquets. The man is a genius.
If There's A Wocket in My Pocket was full of made-up words for rhyme's sake, Hop On Pop is full of couplings for rhymes sake.
The kids I read this too are young toddlers, busy constructing simple sentences and learning vocabulary and prepositions, so this is quite timely I think.
It's an old-fashioned word that I feel the need to explain every time!), whose two little kids (or grandkids) are jumping on like a trampoline and he gets very angry.
The kids - mine, not the ones in the book - find this all very fascinating, quite funny and ask a lot of questions.
“DayPlayWe play all day.NightFightWe fight all night.
If we reject the story because we do not believe such a scenario could occur in the real world, we are missing the point.Strangely, this concept is one that adults struggle with but children accept as natural.
The fish and the tree are entertaining distracters (red herrings, if you will) that allow the child to enter a playful state of mind where learning can be achieved.Why, as adults, do we stop reading like children?
All books define their own rules of existence – if we limit ourselves to realism in the belief that truth is found only there, then we are like children who will not learn the difference between up and down because we know that dogs don’t drive cars.
Hop on Pop is a wonderful way for children to learn about rhyming words.
The characters that Dr. Seuss uses are fun and interesting which makes this book entertaining for all.Learning Experience:This activity helps children recognize rhyming words and uses gross motor skills.
Have the child toss a beanbag on a square, hop to that square and then say what’s in the picture.
You read another word (sometimes a rhyming word, sometimes not) and ask the child if it rhymes or not.
If you have a group of children, have them take turns.
A friend of mine read this book to me a about a month ago. From what i remember it was really funny because almost all the words rhymed! I would recommend this book to any aspiring poet or kid.
this is a great way to teach English for children and foreign learners .
I am a completely unashamed fan of Dr. Seuss! I just love his books! I used to read them aloud to my little brothers all the time. :)
This was one of the first books I ever learned to read.
OH I loved it... GREAT ^-^
The first book i ever read! good times!
Very little of this book had to deal with achieving altitude off of one's father.
The first book I ever read. The perfect first book to read. My whole life has been perfect, all because of this book.
An absolute nessecity on any toddler's bookshelf. :-)
More fun and delight from the great and brilliant mind of Dr. Seuss.
You can’t go wrong with Dr. Seuss!
WrensReads Review:PUP CUPPup in a cupCUP PUPCup on a PupRhyme ClimbRhyme that can ClimbClimb RhymesRhyme up the ClimbJK, I made the second one up. You could have realized that yourself because it is so poorly done. I am no Dr. Seuss but I can try and can amuse.Second of Eight books that my best friend brought with her this weekend. I am so loving these.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
Just beautiful.
Just beautiful.
The roller coaster of emotions upon which the reader is taken!
From fun playing ball on a wall to the tragedy of falling off said wall.
From the belly laughs evoked as we follow Pat's journey sitting on various household items to the sheer panic at the prospect of Pat impaling his rump on the likes of a cactus.
From the innocent child's play of wrestling with a loving father to a shameful and scarring reprimand.
The characters could not be more relatable as they are all fumbling their way through life, learning through experience and having a lot of fun along the way.
