https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59004.Structural_Anthropology
Although Levi-Strauss' analyses are highly competent and thorough and his position supported by solid and sound arguments, I find it hard to subscribe to the approach to anthropology that he advocates.
However cool that may sound and however impressive the application of this stance (as illustrated in many chapters of the book), I couldn't help feeling some kind of reluctance to accept it.
It may be perhaps because of my lack of knowledge and theoretical abilities that I failed to fully grasp the advantages of his method.I don't advise laymen or beginners in the field of anthropology to take on the whole book.
This is just a masterpiece. Particularly his study of myth in this book is just astonishing. His study of myth in Structural Anthropology II is even more astonishing.
Yes yes, I know this is a remarkably important book, but it was a slog, and a slog I tended to disagree with. While I admire the tenacity of his research and I admire the historical step of applying Saussure's linguistic method to culture, I can't help but be annoyed by Levi-Strauss' hard-line structuralism. Seriously, the chapter on the structure of myth pissed me off.
Social anthropology presented right.
A good Introduction to structural (and other types of) anthropology (I am sure Claude would hate me for saying that).
I think the only downside is that it is one of the founding texts of anthropology, which means it is a bit outdated (some chapters in the book were written as articles in the 40s, and since then anthropology has evolved in leaps).
But, yes, a classic, so if you are interested in anthropology is is a must read.
(Even tough I wrote at the beginning it is an introduction to..., I guess it helps if you have read some other texts before).
Antes de ler o livro criei uma expectativa muito forte sobre seu conteúdo.
Considerando que As estruturas elementares do parentesco possui um objeto bem específico, a escolha óbvia era pela Antropologia Estrutural.
Em termos de embasamento teórico, a leitura evidenciou uma lacuna minha, a falta de um estudo mais aprofundado da linguistica estrutural, algo que o autor aborda, mas muito superficialmente ou considerando que o leitor já domina os temas e a proposta.
De qualquer forma, recomendo a leitura de todos os artigos, mesmo os mais complexos e de objetos muito específicos contém passagens esclarecedoras sobre a antropologia, o espírito cientifico e o pensamento humano.
:') The outmoded language is really not that bad aside from the use of the word "primitive" and the obvious presence of the white gaze constantly at work.
The overall suggestion of this presence, why it might make the reading uneasy, is that none of the knowledge we call "anthropological" seems at all trustworthy.
Not necessarily calling it the "white gaze," his critique of the prior attempts to assimilate the definition of "anthropology" with the scientific method is merciless.
For someone with a more postcolonial leaning hermeneutics, a quite complicated dialectic ensues within the consideration of anthropological study, the white gaze, and knowledge-as-such.
Like most of Levi-Strauss it's a bit difficult to read, takes some time to analyze his points but once understood it's well worth the effort of finishing this book. His perspective & understanding of the human condition should be mandatory teaching.
In terms of the enjoyment of the reading experience, I give 3 stars. In terms of value for someone interested in structuralism outside of linguistics, it's a must-read, if for no reason other than historical value. It's a bit uneven as well, but I found myself highlighting a lot of passages.
Sum up a book in one sentence challenge: human beings organize themselves in certain ways, even if we have different cultures, it’s not random.
(5 stars) The method this book proposes and uses for its research is great and helpful for anyone trying to develop research and opinions in anthropology. Its dissection of other social sciences as they relate to what he's talking about is pretty good and thorough. My favorites are the discourses on primitive art & the concept of archaism which come with a lot of clever linguistic analogies and art references that give the work a lot of depth.Update: 11-27-2018(4 *'s)I think this method is good but not enough to expose deep properties in behavior and language.
الأنتروبولوجيا البنيوية أحد الكتب المميزة جداً جداً التي قرأتها هذا العام..الجانب النظري أو التنظيري كان معقداً في إطار البحث عن المنهج وعلاقته بمناهج العلوم الأخرى فكانت الطروحات والنقاشات دقيقة للغاية إلا أن الاستشهاد بحالات كان أغلبها من نصوص ميثولوجية كندية أو أسترالية أو أميركية (هندية) ترك فجوة إدراك لمحيط النموذج المطلوب سبره..كتاب مميز وملهم ويستحق قراءة متأنية للغاية..
A classic no doubt, but flawed in its rigid use of structure and not enough recognition of the organic/fluid nature of societal evolution. Also completely atheist. Careful reading makes this a good study but not recommended for the average layperson.
Struggled a bit with the unexpected complexity of Structural Anthropology by Claude Levi Strauss. Besides making culture in my head all jumbled up with different hypothesis about it, it also made me be completely fascinated by the first field anthropologists.
This is one of those books that is more edifying than entertaining. I have a much better appreciation for all social sciences having read this book, and I do recommend it, if you have any curiosity about this discipline, at all.
I got my B.A. almost ten years ago and only just got around to this anthropology classic. Well, better late than never I guess. I can see how a lot of the courses I took drew on some of L-S's fundamentals, even if we only superficially covered him.
Lévi-Strauss changed the face of anthropology with his seminal conference collection turned book. Though anthropology has moved past structuralism this remains a must read book that sheds light into the perceived and neglected (at least before L.-S.) 'structure' of society.
I feel like such a butt giving this book a one star, but it's not that the book is bad -- it's not. It's just that I didn't like it, precisely what the * rating says.I'm thankful, though. Made me realise that Anthropology is not for me, despite all the other allure of this course.
None
(obvi did not read the whole thing because i mostly hate anthropology hey but did think a lot about language and symbols so that was hepful)
Important collection of papers
I'd call it mathematical anthropology and the mathematics of the Unconscious!
Defines anthropology, goals and methods. Applies scientific model of linguistics.
اهم الافكار
Trudno to w ogóle ocenić. Czasem trzeba nadrobić dziury w wykształceniu.
Great, bu tiedious book for the beginner of anthropology. The first half of the book might be a bit arid, but the second half in simply great. A must read for anyone interested in anthropology.
Olin lugedes Lévi-Straussiga pidevalt konfliktis. No ikka üldse ei ole strukturalist.
my copy is The Anchor Books edition,1967
I read this back in 1996. My memory of it is foggy, to say the least.
Anthropology at its best. The true scientist of human nature. J'Adore!
