https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16241209-nothing-like-the-sun
"My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun.."Virginia Woolf has written of the new biography in which fact and fiction are commingled in an entirely novel and delicious manner thus bringing forth the true personality of the subject of that biography.
Anthony Burgess' 'Nothing Like The Sun' epitomises the new biography.
A story of Shakespeare's love life, it is also a revelation of his incandescently fascinating mind.
I knew about Shakespeare's literary history and a little of his personal life, but the present novel resurrects his personality, turning words to flesh.
Nothing Like The Sun, on the other hand, situates us not only within the Elizabethan period but also within Shakespeare's mind.
I would quote to prove myself, but I'm lazy and it's late.Addendum--I especially like the scene early in the book, with Will (view spoiler)[ as a teenager ( I think..he's still living in his dad's house with a batch of brothers and sisters).
He's writing poetry whilst his (greasy) sister Joan "keels the pot", his little idiot brother is running inside to escape some mischief he caused outside, (shades of Bottom and many other Shakespeare goofballs).
(hide spoiler)] I also like the tavern scenes.
I think it would be hard to appreciate this book if you are not a hardcore Shakespeare fan and familiar with many of his plays and sonnets (which I am).
This is great fun. Burgess was channelling Shakespeare, so it's full of bawdy imagery, puns and alliterations, all that playful stuff, even poignant at times. There's often rhythm to the prose, and I keep expecting him to break into verse. I'm not knowledgeable enough about Shakespeare's life and work to judge whether Burgess' take is valid, or even remotely convincing. But in my ignorance, it's very enjoyable. Recommended. Ellen, Elizabeth, have you read this?
Its title references the sonnet: "My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun", and proposes that the much-speculated-upon 'Dark Lady of the Sonnets' was a prostitute and madam named Lucy Negro.Burgess sticks with a conventional Shakespearean-scholar interpretation of a love triangle between WS (as he's referred to throughout), the Dark Lady and his early patron Henry Wriothesley, third Earl of Southampton.
We often think of the past as a pretty pageant, but certain historical novels I've read capture an ordinariness that's both recognisable and alien.I first remember encountering this mode of 'grunge history' in 
The parts where a young WS runs around chasing tail are infinitely more interesting than the ones where an older WS writes poems and plays.
This says a lot for Burgess's stylistic talents, as precious few write as well about sex as they think they do.
I'm aware that how women in Shakespeare's time were thought of and treated was none of Burgess's doing; still, Burgess made authorial choices, and the way women are treated and the (utter lack of) regard in which they are held says more to me about his own beliefs about women than about Elizabethan London.
A carnival of language! Burgess had a life-long love affair with words, as witness A Clockwork Orange, and this glorious pastiche of 16thc idioms is a poem to the Bard. Forgive the copious in-jokes that only scholars might detect, not least its cryptic nods to Ulysses and Freud. Enjoy the wit, fun and vibrant color!
In 234 pages, Burgess manages to introduce his reader to a young Shakespeare, developing into manhood and clumsily fumbling his way through his first sexual escapade with a woman, through Shakespeare’s long, famed (and contested) romance with Henry Wriothesley, 3rd Earl of Southampton and, ultimately, to Shakespeare’s final days, the establishment of The Globe theater, and Shakespeare’s romance with “The Dark Lady.” The Good:Burgess has a command for language.
Incredibly fascinating and surprisingly sound story, which also appropriately references, with subtlety, many of Shakespeare’s works, at their time of development, so that a reader familiar with the works may catch them without their names actually having been written.
Nothing Like the Sun is a tale of William Shakespeare and his purported relationships with the Earl of Southampton and Fatima, the Dark Lady.
Like Clockwork, Burgess has a way with language, Nothing Like the Sun written in an oldish English, as if you are reading a Shakespearan play.
Shakespeare is a moody boy, writing sonnets, chasing women until he is forced to marry Anne Hathaway after getting her pregnant.Shakespeare then joins a travelling troupe of actors, begins writing their plays and moves to London, where he meets the Earl of Southampton and becomes involved in a romantic relationship.
How many novelists can you think of with the required talent and ambition to take on the task of writing a novel about Shakespeare's love life, daring to imagine themselves inside the Immortal Bards head at the moment of creation and in his bed at the moment of climax?Burgess' Bard is as lusty and ambitious as all young men, yet full of pity and sympathy also, unable to hold his drink, fired by a golden vision of a Dark Lady indirectly inspired by the ravings of a local Stratfordian loon.Outmaneuvered into marrying Anne Hathaway after loving a different Anne entirely, Will heads to London to make his name, finding patronage and companionship with the reckless but kind Henry Wriothesley, then discovering his Dark Lady in a black exile from the East Indies named Fatimah, who gives him the 'gift' of more than just her love.Burgess completely revels in the idiom of Elizabethan language, the compounds, the wordplay, the endless puns - there must be a dozen on the Bard's first name alone.
As impressed as I was that Burgess captured the Shakespearean tongue in novel format.
It's told in small vignettes, most of which aren't very interesting.
It's an interesting approach, but I felt that chapter 7 in part 2 was the peak for the book, when the chapter is told through a series of journal entries.
As far as criticizing a book of this magnitude I can simply say no more than it wasn't for me.
I'm sure there are those who find subtle, accurate, and poignant, but as fan of both WS and Burgess I found simply put boring and uninspired.
London - Shakespeare
Read this while I was taking a college Shakespeare class. I enjoyed it then. I would like to reread it after 40 years tho...
But English is an incredibly rich language, a hodgepodge, a portmanteau, a thief and a wily borrower, and with the effortless bravura natural to a linguist and translator of high caliber, Burgess exploits every gift that English offers him, with a dazzling result that is a mosaic composed of everything from diamonds of the first water to thrown-away bits of aluminum foil.Secondary to this pleasure of language is Burgess' fantastic knowledge of his subject; those educated about the Elizabethan and early Jacobean age, and who have a lot of Shakespeare rolling around in their heads, will be stunned and delighted.
An odd book, that's almost three separate short novellas in one.
The best, and first, is the beginning of the book, which follows young Will on his youthful amorous adventures, hoodwinked into a hasty Elizabethan shotgun marriage with an older bride at the precipice of spinsterhood.
Some decent dialogue, but the richness of the prose and language of the first third is lost, and everything is compressed.
The third phase is even more compressed, and mostly about the dark lady, who is a whore from Africa (it seems), and lamentations etc.
Had the first third made up the entire novel, this would have been genius.
A novel about Shakespeare written 2 years after "A Clockwork Orange." This begins and end with the manic wordplay of the previous book.
Burgess "answers" a few questions about the Bard's sketchy life.
And the "second best Bed" questions of the will is also answered.
Shakespeare is a gentleman with some money and buys the New Place in Stafford for his family and retirement.
He enjoys the ride "home", walks into a quite house, opens a bedroom door and there Ann and his Brother Richard are together..
in the second best bed!
I enjoyed the creativity of the novel
This is an odd one - a bit like A Clockwork Orange, the narrative style is a bit strange and it took me a while to get my eye/ear in with it. However once I did (& it took around 200 pages, which is most of the book, mind), this is an intriguing reimagining of Shakespeare's love life and the back story to the Dark Lady/youth of Shakespeare's sonnets. Burgess has a great turn of phrase and I read this in pretty much one sitting. It's not the best book I've ever read, but it's okay for passing an afternoon.

Brilliant language, evening you suspect not all the words are real. As satisfy I ng and gorgeous as you might hope for.Scholar or newcomer, this book grabs you and you feel every happiness or pain the characters do, whether you intended to or not.
One word - 'Brilliant'.
Greatly amusing. Would also recommend reading Burgess' book about Marlowe.
Beautiful language that takes your breath away- shows the seedy side of Shakespeare set in the seedy times of an accurately portrayed Elizabethan England. Burgess becomes the Bard.
If you could imagine Shakespeare filtered through Swift and Joyce you might end up with something like this. The language was great fun but the end was kind of disturbing.
After his escape, he spends most of his time in London where a lot of work, a lot of animosity and a lot of success lies a-waiting for him – and this is also where he meets his two muses: the golden man and the dark lady who inspire him to write his sonnets.Shakespeare, as depicted/imagined by Burgess, is an intriguing and ambiguous character: he is very practical and businesslike, but his mind is just as full of fascinating ideas and free-floating lines of poems as we like to think about great poets; he enjoys the company of his lovers and his life in general, but he cannot for a moment forget the melancholy fact that he’s getting older; he seems to neglect his family and hardly ever pays them a visit, but he never forgets to send them enough money for their daily needs.
Nothing Like the Sun  has made me a Burgess fan, since I was never going to finish reading A Clockwork Orange beyond the fist two pages, which I tried doing back in my late teens and got thoroughly turned off (the beginning of the movie isn't much more inspiring to me, so I'm not tempted to make more efforts no matter how many "best of" lists that title is feature on). This book purports to be a biography of Shakespeare and introduces him from his late teens, when he was presumably occupied cha
has made me a Burgess fan, since I was never going to finish reading A Clockwork Orange beyond the fist two pages, which I tried doing back in my late teens and got thoroughly turned off (the beginning of the movie isn't much more inspiring to me, so I'm not tempted to make more efforts no matter how many "best of" lists that title is feature on).
This book purports to be a biography of Shakespeare and introduces him from his late teens, when he was presumably occupied chasing women and bedding every single one of those who accepted his advances, until he got caught into marriage by the brothers of one Anne Hathaway, one of the several women he impregnated, though not at all his first or last choice as a wife.
More than implying that even the greatest of artists are mere thieves of the lives that flow around them, Burgess takes these moments to inject interesting critiques of Shakespeare's work (e.g. the particularly Christian nature of Ophelia's madness).
If sci-fi futures ultimately are reflections of the present's fears and hopes, then these historical recreations seem to offer us a reflection on what the writer assumes motivates and forms those historical people whose lives he is trying to reconstruct.
Meanwhile, Burgess implies, living a more traditional domestic existence kills all artistic creativity.
Mas já tenho idade suficiente para saber que o único dever autoevidente que temos é para com a imagem de ordem que todos nós trazemos em nossos cérebros, o único dever do homem é manter o caos lá embaixo, seja com pisadas ocasionais ou tábuas de assoalho permanentes." Ou "Aquilo era como fazer luvas: apenas um ofício (atuar).
Talvez não fosse um ofício tão mesquinho, mas também tratava-se de acertar o tamanho e receber encomendas só que para homens inteiros, e não para cinco dedos.
Era isso que ele queria.
Uma imagem para todo o sempre e que fosse imorredoura.
If Anthony Burgess were a Shakespeare character, he'd be Malvolio.
He tastes with a distempered appetite!Writing about Shakespeare gives Burgess free rein, but not in a good way.
Burgess, not so much.
Other reviewers have mentioned Burgess' loathing for women -- but it's awfully odd to have an Elizabethan novel with no Elizabeth.
It's emblematic of how little interest Burgess has in leaving his own comfort zone.
He wants a dirty-minded Shakespeare who despises women, just as he wants a secret Catholic Shakespeare who despises Protestant England's destiny as the champion of religious liberty.
O.K. Това определено е история, която няма да прочетете в христоматиите.
Плюс това, в книгата на Бърджес сонетите, които толкова обичам, са не плод на искрено чувство, а само средство да се измоли подкрепа, покровителство, да се съблазни, а често служат и на чужди цели.Заглавието на книгата Nothing Like the Sun е част от първият стих от Сонет 130 на Шекспир, в български превод: "Очите ѝ не са звезди...".
Четох на руски под заглавието "Влюбленный Шекспир", което ме заблуди да очаквам романтична история в стил Холивуд.
Fictional yet believable biography of Shakespeare's private life, written in an Elizabethan style.
Once I got into the cadence and tone, it flowed quite beautifully.Glad I picked this up during a "Shakespeary" time of my life - in the process of reading and watching a succession of his plays.
A year ago this book would have been almost totally lost on me.
As it was, there were many quotes, tidbits and references I got, some I understood after looking it up, and many I'm sure went over my head entirely!
This was my first Burgess book, and I'm certainly convinced of his eruditeness.
The idea is simple and brilliant at once, but by no means easy to execute. Burgess gets the tone right: there are some fantastic scenes and descriptions here. The downside for casual readers is that while you don't need any knowledge of Shakespeare's life to read this book, there are so many allusions and in-jokes that I'm sure it would scare off many lay readers. Those who know just a little, though, will marvel at the blend of erudition and playfulness. The 'dark lady' by the way is held to be Malayan (or possibly Indonesian), a region well-known to Burgess.
