https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/123850.Selected_Writings
People do not deserve to have good writing, they are so pleased with bad. I expect most people read Emerson in college, which I suppose is the perfect time to do so. The man seems constantly to be speaking to the young, wide-eyed, enthusiastic, hopeful liberal arts major in me. There’s just something wonderfully youthful about Emerson’s attitude; he never grew out of that adolescent feeling of omnipotence, that we can all recreate the world if we are just authentically ourselves. This sounds cr
Emerson’s essays don’t coalesce into a work; they remain a jangly collection of disparate elements, like keys on a keychain.
And indeed, Emerson admired Montaigne very much, even writing a laudatory essay on the old French sage.
Emerson's description of Montaigne's prose is apt for both writers: “Cut these words and they would bleed; they are vascular and alive.”His essays comprise the bulk of this collection, which were generally enjoyable, but less thrilling.
Besides, Emerson endears because of his artlessness, his frankness; so when he squeezes himself into verse, he looks like a man wearing a shirt a few sizes too small.Despite all of Emerson’s flaws as a writer, I still enjoyed every minute I spent with him.
This was pretty good, but it was a little bit like being in a hallmark store. About every third paragraph an aphorism jumps out and tries to make me buy an inspirational coffee cup. Hallmark should include the subversive context on their calendars...
Pretty much a mood read for me. Philosophical renderings on self reliance and dependence at the lowest level, the individual. A good choice for reading for long stretches of uninterrupted time.
Every influx of atheism of skepticism is thus made useful as a mercury pill assaulting & removing a diseased religion & making way for truth, & itself is presently purged into the draught.46: The effect of a fanciful word misplaced, is like that of a horn of exquisite polish growing on a human head.47: It is the best part of the man, I sometimes think, that revolts most against his being the minister.
If we believed in the existence of strict individuals (itl), natures, that is, not radically identical but unknown, immeasurable, we should never dare fight.The American Scholar 69 - One must be an inventor to read well.
...A nation of men will for the first time exist, because each believes himself inspired by the Divine Soul which also inspires all men.Self-RelianceYou are allowed to be alone to think.
You are allowed to resist Society in order to make individual advancements.
Society, by nature, will grow angry at you because it is contingent on you joining.355:Spring, 1851: On returning slaves: And this filthy enactment was made in the nineteenth century, by people who could read and write.
It eased me into his 19th century style of writing and thought and well-prepared me for the essays and lectures that followed, which are the real joy and benefit of Emerson's work.
It contains the benefits of most religious beliefs without the problematic parts (institutional rigmarole, intolerance, sometimes bloody and immoral, sometimes merely comical, and the arrogance of Truth founded on primitive wisdom and narrative, sometimes brilliant and sometimes brutal and backward and contradictory, the sin where dogma wags the tale).
All of his work is rich in excerptable wisdom--aphorism, sayings, elegant phrasings crop up everywhere.
From very early on, I have had an affinity for Emerson and his at-times complex, yet remarkably simple and poignant ideas and explanations. Without question, Self-Reliance, played an integral part in my life. This books contains some of his most powerful. Said he, "whatever course you decide upon, there is always someone to tell you that you are wrong. There are always difficulties arising which tempt you to believe that your critics are right. To map out a course of action and follow it to an end requires courage."
4 months and 930pp later, I put this to bed. What's worth returning to? Essays Vols 1 & 2 (esp. Self Reliance, Experience, Friendship, Circles, Nature), the eulogy for Thoreau and that for John Brown, the American Scholar, The Div School Address, The Transcendentalist, The Lord's Supper, a handful of poems. His study of English traits is the most fun read in the collection. The representative Representative Men and Conduct of Life essays are kinda boring. Most of the poems are not that great, especially the longer ones.
Growing up in Boston served as fertile ground for connecting with great 19th century writers who lived and created in the area. I am fond of the transcendentalist movement, his great poetry, and superbly written essays. His essay on friendship should be taught to all who truly want to have friends in their lifetime. "To make ones life breathe easier is to have succeeded". A great contribution to literature and philosophy.
Emerson is hard to read. I only read Nature and Self-Reliance, but both were excellent essays, and both contributed much to my view of the world. Nature is probably one of the hardest essays in the book, but it is well worth the thinking required to get through it. You will have to do some rereading, but that's just a sign of good literature. I also had a professor try to quiz me on Nature once. That's just mean, please don't do that to anyone. I love Emerson, and I hope you do, too.
Mr. Emerson made his writing so descriptive and personal that I was able to garner a vicarious experience of early to mid 19th century American culture. It was interesting to watch Emerson allow age and life experience to change him from an idealistic religious romantic to a full-blown cynic still hanging on to minuscule religious rooting convictions.
A lot of his philosophy is really beautiful (if sometimes outdatedly a bit racist/sexist), but I enjoyed the excerpts from his journals at the beginning more than any of the crafted pieces. I think he must have been a wonderful speaker.
This was used in my 400-level American Transcendentalist class in college; nice selection and very good supporting material in the book.
Thoroughly enjoyed this compilation of Emerson's notes and diary entries as he evolved into the amazing man he was, revered as one of the world's greatest thinkers in his lifetime.
I really love some messages in this book but it just doesn't flow well. Something I will have to come back to in the future.
read just one essay called Self Reliance but I'd be willing to read the rest of them. some texts just move you in a very positive way.:)
so as I stumble clumsily through Whitman's Leaves of Grass, I decided to back up a bit, to one of Whitman's first encouragers=Emerson.
I did my thesis on Emerson and adore his work.
Honestly, I didn't like reading Emerson. I feel pressure to give this a 3 rating because of his acclaim (by others).
This book is really hard to read, but it was very enjoyable. The meaning of the essays are very deep and memorable. Emerson must have been a genius in his time.
This is my Bible--hands down.
Very nice. Not something you'd be hooked to and will think of over and over... but overall Emerson's language and ideas are so beautiful, and some of the writing in there is just brilliant.
These essays have always spoken to me. They make me wish I were braver.
