https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/700438.Manual_of_Zen_Buddhism
And when the applicant finally does get to see the Master, he is expected to show the same respect, not perhaps so much for the Master as a person as for what he stands for - for the state of enlightenment and for the vast ocean of Buddhist knowledge he represents.Suzuki sensei, would, I feel sure, have hoped that we ourselves show a similar respect for the contents of the present book - for its Prayers and Invocations; for its selections from the Sutras and from the Zen Masters; and for its fifty interesting plates and illustrations which depict Chinese and Japanese statuary, scroll paintings, woodblocks, etc., of a kind one would find at any Zen Temple in Japan.
It simply tells us, this is how you do Zen. I feel like I need to read this manual a few more times in order to perfect the skill.The Diamond Sutra basically tells me, that which is, is not, but then it reappears.
And therefore when we get convinced about the reality of a form, if you want to practice Zen, you first see its essential emptiness or non-existence and following that it reeappears in your eyes afresh though your perception and appreciation of it will be different because you will be as Watts might put it "cool" about the whole thing.So a practical application of Zen might be that I see a beautiful woman, and instantly my feelings go wild.

Torture to read.. I’ve learned nothing of value from this book and that’s the opposite of Buddhism
The companion volume to Suzuki's Introduction to Zen Buddhism, this is mostly of collection of source materials and quotations from great Zen masters like Dogen or Hakuin. For this reason it's better to read the other book first if you can, although there are still some notes and explanatory sections here. "There is really nothing to argue about in this teaching;Any arguing is sure to go against the intent of it;Doctrines given up to confusion and argumentationLead by themselves to birth and death."
I felt this book started off rather slowly with the Indian Sutras and whatnot. They were a little to imaginative and difficult for me to digest. However, once it got into the Ch'an masters, it became quite a boost to the soul. Some of the art and explanations on Japanese Zen, later in the book, were highly interesting, as well.
TORTURE! I don't think religion should be so abstract and mystical. Good grief this was hard to understand. I've known wonderful Buddhists in my life, but this manual? Not accessible for me. I think religion should be accessible.
critical metaphysics.
very rough around the edges.
Despite the title, not really a manual, and not the right book for the complete novice.
Suzuki is a very good writer on Zen, highly suggest this author.
