https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11324722-the-righteous-mind
Haidt is much better psychologist than political philosopher, and this book is both monumental and dangerously flawed.On the good side: Haidt draws broadly from research in psychology, anthropology, and biology to develop a six-factor basis for morality (Care/Harm, Liberty/Oppression, Fairness/Cheating, Loyalty/Betrayal, Authority/Subversion, Sanctity/Degradation), and show that moral judgement is an innate intuitive ability accompanied by post-hoc justifications.
This theory is, frankly, really good and really well developed.Haidt then goes on to show that Liberalism draws from only the first three moral factors while Conservatism draws from all six.
According to Haidt you have a more balanced morality, a realistic view of "human nature" (beware anyone who says they understand human nature), and some other good stuff I forgot about.
Haidt grasps this somewhat when discussing fairness and equality but not with the same success as Corey Robin.UPDATE: Years later and still ticking as my most popular review.
It has a bias and more to the point has a limited understanding of morality.
I have no time anymore for arguments, left or right, that ignore their internal contradictions or other view points that would question their basic premises.
This knowledge does not make disagreements go away, so the best I can hope for after reading this book is to comprehend the intuitive motivations of both myself and others, and then comprehend why those motivations can lead to morals that steer reasoning to opposite conclusions.The author, Jonathan Haidt, is a psychologist who has specialized on the nature of morals.
Part TwoThe main point of this section of the book is that conservatives base their morality on six types of considerations or value judgments: care/harm, liberty/oppression, fairness/cheating, loyalty/betrayal, authority/subversion, and sanctity/degradation.
It is a feature of our evolutionary design, not a bug or error that crept into minds that would otherwise be objective and rational."I hardly feel qualified to make any kind of judgments on this book having little background in philosophy, especially moral philosophy, so I especially appreciate Haidt's lucid summary of the development of moral philosophy through examples and hypotheticals.I remember several years ago having a visit from the local anti-abortion denizens, nice people, very concerned about youth, etc.
His stated goal is to attempt to find a way to bridge the divide between two different moral world views., and to find a way for each side to at least understand the other's perspective.Both left and right are motivated by the moral foundations of care, fairness, liberty, loyalty, authority and sanctity.
These are some of grudges I have against this book:1.) The author doesn't tackle conservative vs.
2.) The author tries too hard to stay on the "middle ground".Have you ever witnessed fights where you absolutely know that one party is being unreasonable, and someone comes along and tries to be "fair" to both parties?
He defines Care, Liberty, Fairness, Loyalty, Authority and Sanctity as the six pillars of morality.
I agree with the author that a lot of left-wing supporters just go with the tide and need to realize where the right-wing groups are coming from.
Not only is he attempting to explain why people are morally tribal, but also the way morality works in the human brain, the evolutionary origins of moral feelings, the role of moral psychology in the history of civilization, the origin and function of religion, and how we can apply all this information to the modern political situation—among much else along the way.Haidt begins with the roles of intuition and reasoning in making moral judgments.
Haidt asserts that progressive morality rests primarily on the axis of care and harm, and that loyalty, authority, and purity are actively rejected by liberals (“liberals” in the American sense, as leftist).
Haidt's bigger purpose is to explain how we are all hardwired to use reason NOT to MAKE our moral decisions/choices, but rather to use reason to BUTTRESS the choices (about God, politics, etc) that we've already made.While I think his approach is a bit too simplistic, I still use his Moral Foundations Theory to explain why my father and I might have some overlap in values but different political views.
(Alternate name: Purity.)Do I agree that liberals rank certain of these values higher than conservatives?
Yes.Do I agree that conservatives might value some of these foundational values more than liberals?
Calling his subject moral psychology he pretends to offer us universal truths when, in fact, he is dealing only with parochial matters; currently fashionable political concerns in the U.S. As if he discovered it, he dwells repeatedly on the well recognized phenomenon that opinions are rarely reached through reason but rather the reverse; once held, reasons are found to justify and defend opinions.
(He does mention some of them.) Considering that close to a third of his 420 pages is devoted to addenda - mostly chapter notes - a few details of his investigations could have been included.
In the majority of cases, rational justifications are made after the fact, and emotions and feelings are predominant in value judgments.
There are:-CARING for the vulnerable and shunning the cruel-FAIRNESS in treatment and defending the exploited, against greed or cheating-LOYALTY to a group and against traitors-AUTHORITY or respect to social hierarchies-SANCTITY or cleanliness, against impurities of body or mind.2A) Haidt, referring to the American political spectrum, identifies which foundations of morality apply to liberals, conservatives, and libertarians.
Refer to popular liberal reformers such as FDR + learn their appeal.3) Our moral principles form a societal framework and a 'group coherence'.
At first I gave this book 3 stars because I felt like I might have been too critical.
This book should be renamed "How to Justify the Action of Oppressing Human Beings In the Name of Getting Along." You can take any of Haidt's current examples of what to him "seems" like an oppressive act, as he assures you there is some merit to the thinking of oppressive individuals, and replace it with any of the most embarrassing atrocities committed by human being in our past.
I was sure I was going to love the book before I even turned to page one.
Not to mention crimes against the language like "groupishness", "Durkheimogens", or the "hive switch".However, though I did find these stylistic tics annoying, in the end they are minor flaws in a book which was fascinating, highly readable, and thought-provoking.
On the topic of religion, Haidt's arguments are considerably more interesting, and expressed with far greater civility, than the shrill invective doled out by the anti-God group of Dawkins, Dennett, and Harris.The last couple of chapters in the book, in which the author examines the polarization and loss of civility that has crept in to American political life in the last decades, are fascinating.
This isn't to say that the terrain Haidt describes won't change (and possibly change a lot over the next 20 or 30 years) but it feels like moral psychology is well on its way to being biologised (a good thing to my mind) and is approaching fully scientific status.And this is where the conundrum hits.
Much of the book (past the first fluffy chapter) is devoted to describing how Haidt and others came to construct and validate these moral "tastes", through extensive ongoing questionnaires and experiments.
Gay marriage isn't simply extending a right, in fairness, to a group that deserves it (though it's that, too).
For a long time now I have been coming to the conclusion that if one is to believe capitalism is essentially a meritocracy - and if one is also to acknowledge that the inequities of capitalist societies mean that social mobility (particularly in the United States, for instance) is virtually non-existent, then one also needs some way of explaining how something that looks like it is without merit actually is the embodiment of merit.And often this is where 'biology' comes to the rescue.
"We are 90% chimp and 10% being."The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion is much more than just about "Why good people are divided by politics and religion".
Morality is explained and defined in different ways in this book."There is more in man than the breath of his body.""We, humans, have extraordinary capability to care about things beyond our capacity.""The human mind is a story processor, not a logic processor."This book provides a deeper understanding of the human being's thinking.
It's focus is to understand each other's personality and our way of thinking, and to coexist peacefully.
I feel like one of the most valuable things you can strive to attain in this lifetime is a well rounded, informed mindset that expands your ability to see other points of view. With this, I gained just that :)
But we will also need a level of social cohesion or hive mentality which is not available to us at the moment with all the political disagreement.In his concluding chapter, Haidt reminds us that his work shows us that “there is more to morality than harm and fairness….the righteous mind is like a tongue with six taste receptors.” Because not all of us use them all the time doesn’t mean they are not there.
Haidt and his group have created the studies, looked at the data, and come to surprising and useful conclusions about our political differences and moral man.
If it is true that our views are intuitive and are often backed up through post hoc rationalization, then we could safely assume that the disparity between liberals and conservatives is often not logical, but rather entirely built on moral presuppositions.
Liberalism and conservatism functions as forces of yin and yang (chaos and order).Therefore, ideas of equality, progress, social justice and rejection of social norms, are incredibly dangerous if not governed by opposing ideas that can put order into these progressive ideas and make them function in society as best as possible.
Just as conservatism, if not governed by forces of equality, progress, social justice and a rejection of social norms, can result in oppression of its people.
Again, neither liberals nor conservatives are "better"--but care about different things because their moral thinking is different.A few days ago I finished the book How We Decide, which describes how the emotional/intuitive mind plays the lion's share in making decisions, while the rational mind forms reasons for our decisions.
I thought that the most interesting part of the book is Haidt's explanation for why people practice religion.
But Haidt does not say that he favors liberal or conservative thinking.
From a psychological standpoint, The Righteous Mind: Why Good People are Divided by Politics and Religion earns five stars.
The book loses some of its appeal when Jonathan Haidt veers into political philosophy, however - especially when he raises the biased question "why are religious people better neighbors and citizens?"Let me backtrack.
The 100 pages of notes at the back of the book reveals how much work he put into his research.But I didn't particularly agree with or admire how he framed conservatism as the better ideology in terms of incorporating all six moral foundations.
Overall, I recommend The Righteous Mind for anyone searching for a thought-provoking book regarding psychology, politics, philosophy, and religion.
After this year's presidential election I emailed my sister, a smart, super-competent, true-blue, bleeding-heart, save the weeds and snails, liberal, who volunteered to do campaign work for Hilary Clinton in Colorado during the 2008 Democratic primaries and, of course, voted loudly for Obama."Are you kidding me?" I asked.
I just finished the book.It's one of the best books I've read all year.Haidt explains why my sister and I were both baffled by people who voted for the opposition candidate.
Although they are technically correct they don't give a full sense of the glory of what is certainly the best popular science book I have read this year, and comes easily into my top ten ever.Jonathan Haidt is a psychologist who specializes in morality.
Reading Haidt's ideas I got a similar jolt, but based on sensible relatively simple observations.
And everyone who believes that people from the opposite end of the political spectrum is evil, wrong and stupid should also read it.
n.b. This is a “pre-review” — see full explanation below.Recommended required reading:Before I begin anything that bears even a slight resemblance to a review, I want to say that I am incredibly grateful that a friend (a real, live human one at that) suggested I read (or re-read, as it were) Daniel Kahneman's   Thinking, Fast and Slow   before taking on Haidt's oevre. I wholeheartedly endorse the aforementioned recommendation, so do with that what you will.Excuses, excuses:I am absolutely commit
n.b. This is a “pre-review” — see full explanation below.Recommended required reading:Before I begin anything that bears even a slight resemblance to a review, I want to say that I am incredibly grateful that a friend (a real, live human one at that) suggested I read (or re-read, as it were) Daniel Kahneman's 
"Hey Mara- maybe you should be super cool and awesome and do a quick illustration of moral foundations as tastebuds."
"Good thinking Other Mara, your ideas are always great and never take unexpected and/or detrimental turns, let's do it!"
But, since the collective Maras wasted their time, here is our "
moral taste buds tongue"
In fact, in much the same way that there is evolution even though some people don't believe in it, this book points to some likely facts about the way the world is (i.e., the world of people and opinions and social systems) that will be the case even if you or others "disagree."This new book by Haidt is offering support for the view that human beings' rationality is not the ultimate pinnacle of development.
The main selling point of the book is the controversial thesis that conservatives have a more sophisticated and complete "moral matrix" than liberals.
Haidt says conservatives have a complete sense of taste whereas liberals can only taste sweet.
Haidt needs to show where the "complete" matrix produces better results with specific examples.
So then we have to twist the words around to say that the conservatives don't have a better or more complete morality, just a different one, but that contradicts the main point of the book.
Haidt is writing this as a scientist and truth is the principal moral value of science; see Bronowski:
It seemed counterintuitive as an example and wasn’t helpful to me at all in illustrating or clarifying his main point (which I actually understood just fine) that “intuitions come first, strategic reasoning second.” Secondly, early on in the book Haidt tells an anecdote about his time in the field where he displays such an extraordinary amount of white male privilege that he had me suspicious about his conclusions the rest of the time.
I understand there may be more to morality than harm and fairness, but he gives these additional factors equal weight and I didn’t really see the rationale why.So I guess I wasn’t really surprised when he reveals at the end of the book that at some point he became a conservative.
عاااااالي ضرب در بي نهايت. فوق العاده بود اين كتاب، فوق العاده. خيلي وقت بود يه كتاب پنج ستاره مصرف نكرده بوديم. ريويو فارسي در حال ساخت...
Put another way: the vast majority of the time, we make moral judgments within milliseconds of receiving a stimulus, and we engage our rational minds afterward, solely to find the evidence that will allow us to justify the conclusion we have already arrived at.And not just some people.
It has given me a new tool for understanding morality and ethics, one that is vastly more useful than any available to me prior.The Righteous Mind is not likely to change your political or moral views in any way.
O Jonathan Haidt trabalhou com o que move as pessoas a tomar decisões morais, seguindo a linha mais recente de levar em conta o pensamento evolutivo nesse tipo de estudo.
A conclusão é basicamente que na maioria dos casos a decisão é emocional e a razão vem por cima depois para justificar a decisão tomada.Em seguida parte para uma avaliação crítica de como a maior parte do pensamento e do estudo sobre moral recentes gira em torno da população universitária (as cobaias da maioria dos testes), em sua maioria branca, bastante educada, industrializada, rica e democrata (WEIRD).
สนุกมาก เขียนโดยอาจารยนักจิตวิทยาศีลธรรม (moral psychology)ทีคนควาวิจัยเรือง "กำเนิด" ของสำนึกทางศีลธรรมมายาวนาน โจนาธาน เฮดท นำเสนอวาสำนึกทางศีลธรรมของคนเราไมใชสิงทีติดตัวมาแตกำเนิดลวนๆ แตกไมใชสิงทีเกิดจากการเลียงดู อบรมพรำสอน(nurture) อยางเดียว แตเปน "ทักษะ" (skill) ทีวิวัฒนาการขึนมาตอบสนองตอความตองการทางสังคมของมนุษย (ศีลธรรมไมมีความหมายถามนุษยไมสนใจจะอยูรวมกับคนอืนอยางปกติสุข)เราฝึกทักษะศีลธรรมของเราผานการใช "ตอมศีลธรรม" หาอยางหลัก ซึงเฮดทบอกวาเรามีตังแตเกิดไมตางจากปุมรับรสชาติของลิน ตอมศีลธ
สนุกมาก เขียนโดยอาจารย์นักจิตวิทยาศีลธรรม (moral psychology)ที่ค้นคว้าวิจัยเรื่อง "กำเนิด" ของสำนึกทางศีลธรรมมายาวนาน โจนาธาน เฮดท์ นำเสนอว่าสำนึกทางศีลธรรมของคนเราไม่ใช่สิ่งที่ติดตัวมาแต่กำเนิดล้วนๆ แต่ก็ไม่ใช่สิ่งที่เกิดจากการเลี้ยงดู อบรมพร่ำสอน(nurture) อย่างเดียว แต่เป็น "ทักษะ" (skill) ที่วิวัฒนาการขึ้นมาตอบสนองต่อความต้องการทางสังคมของมนุษย์ (ศีลธรรมไม่มีความหมายถ้ามนุษย์ไม่สนใจจะอยู่ร่วมกับคนอื่นอย่างปกติสุข)เราฝึกทักษะศีลธรรมของเราผ่านการใช้ "ต่อมศีลธรรม" ห้าอย่างหลัก ซึ่งเฮดท์บอกว่าเรามีตั้งแต่เกิดไม่ต่างจากปุ่มรับรสชาติของลิ้น ต่อมศีลธรรมห้าอย่างหลักคือ : ความมีน้ำใจ (caring), ความเป็นธรรม (fairness), ความภักดี (loyalty เช่น ไม่ทรยศชุมชนที่ตัวเองสังกัด), ความมีอำนาจ (authority) และความบริสุทธิ์/ศักดิ์สิทธิ์อันล่วงละเมิดมิได้ (sanctity หรือ purity) เฮดท์ชี้ว่า คนที่อยู่ฝั่งซ้ายของไม้บรรทัดอุดมการณ์ (liberals) จะให้น้ำหนักกับความมีน้ำใจและความเป็นธรรมมากเป็นพิเศษ ไม่สนใจคุณค่าอื่นโดยเฉพาะความศักดิ์สิทธิ์เท่าไร ในขณะที่คนฝั่งขวา (conservative) จะสนใจคุณค่าทั้งห้าอย่าง แต่ยิ่งขวายิ่งใส่ใจความเป็นธรรมน้อยลง ใส่ใจ "ความศักดิ์สิทธิ์" มากขึ้น ข้อค้นพบข้อหนึ่งจากจิตวิทยาศีลธรรมคือ การตัดสินใจทางศีลธรรม (moral judgment) ของเราโดยธรรมชาติจะเกิดขึ้นอย่างกะทันหันและขับดันด้วยอารมณ์ พอตัดสินใจไปแล้วเราค่อยคิดหาเหตุผลทางศีลธรรม (moral reasoning) มา "อธิบาย" ว่าทำไมเราถึงได้ตัดสินใจอย่างนั้น ถ้าเราอยากใช้เหตุผลทางศีลธรรมให้ดีกว่าเดิม จะได้ตัดสินใจทางศีลธรรมจากเหตุผล ไม่ใช่จากอารมณ์ เราก็ต้องฝึกฝนต่อมศีลธรรม ฝึกไตร่ตรอง (ในหนังสือเปรียบเป็น "ควาญช้าง") มากกว่าใช้อารมณ์ (เปรียบเป็น "ช้าง") ส่วนที่น่าสนใจที่สุดของหนังสือในสายตาเรา คือส่วนที่ประยุกต์ใช้ข้อค้นพบจากงานวิจัยมาอธิบายผลการเลือกตั้ง วิวาทะสาธารณะ และการแบ่งฝ่ายทางการเมือง เฮดท์เสนอว่าฝ่ายขวาที่ผ่านมาสามารถดึงดูดผู้คนได้มากกว่า เพราะดึงดูดต่อมศีลธรรมทั้งห้าด้านของมนุษย์ ขณะที่ฝ่ายซ้ายดึงดูดแต่ต่อมเรื่องความเป็นธรรมและความมีน้ำใจ ละเลยต่อมที่เหลือทั้งสามด้าน มิหนำซ้ำบางทียังดูแคลนศาสนา (ซึ่งเน้นคุณค่าเรื่องความศักดิ์สิทธิ์) และปฏิเสธศีลธรรมแบบศาสนาทั้งดุ้น ถ้าฝ่ายซ้ายอยากได้เสียงสนับสนุนวาระตัวเองมากกว่านี้ ก่อนอื่นก็ควรเข้าใจแรงจูงใจทางศีลธรรมของคน ดึงดูดต่อมทั้งห้าต่อม พูดง่ายๆ คือ ถ้าอยากให้ช้างเปลี่ยนเส้นทางเดิน ก็ต้องคุยกับควาญช้าง ไม่ใช่คุยกับช้างอ่านเพลิน ตัวอย่างเพียบ ชวนให้เปรียบเทียบกับ Justice ของ อจ. Michael Sandel เพราะบทสรุปคล้ายๆ กัน(TEDTalk เรื่องนี้ http://www.ted.com/talks/jonathan_hai... มีซับไทย)
And, I theorize, anomie is contributing factor to behaviors such as the mass shootings at Columbine, Sandy Hook, etc.I also have been led to (more fully believe and) understand that if more politicians and more scientists read more literature they would understand human nature better and most of what Haidt took such care to investigate and describe would be self-evident, and we'd be able to live in a healthier yin/yang harmony instead of in a state of partisanship that drives moderates and the open-minded to choose a team and vilify those not on it.
