https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119390.If_You_Meet_the_Buddha_on_the_Road_Kill_Him
But it turned out it was not about zen.The book captures the essence of therapist-client as a parallel journey of two human beings in a relationship dependent upon the ability of both to become careful (full of care) for the other while traveling through metaphors, symbols, sagas and myths, each telling their stories along the way.
And it is here book comes in all its glory, as everything that author wants to convey is contained in these 11 tales.
There are two more parts in the book which contains nothing but author's personal accounts and revelations about himself, which are pretty depressing and no useful in any sense; and in my opinion, can be skipped.
فصل های بعدی نویسنده فقط به راه های مختلف به تکرار همین حرف می پردازه و دیگه چیز جدید زیادی برای عرضه نداره.
این ها همه برای چیست؟ هدف این همه چیست؟ هیچ هدفی به کار نیست.
زندگی صرفاً "اجتناب ناپذیر" است.بیمار اصرار دارد که باید معنایی به کار باشد که او هنوز به آن نرسیده، و اگر به آن برسد سعادتمند خواهد شد.
تنها هدف زندگی این است که هدفی ندارد.شاید سخت ترین چیز برای بیمار آن باشد که بپذیرد او فردی کاملاً معمولی است.
An old professor stood in front of our class and pointed to this book, saying, "This is what separates the therapists from the advice givers." It's also the book that lead me to define better my role as a therapist...and making VERY clear the separation with friends who know me as a "thoughful friend who happens to also be a therapist."
I picked this book up based on a recommendation from a friend.The book gives examples of different types of pilgrimage, and looks at the motives behind each, comparing them to the journey psychotherapy patients goes in their quest for peace of mind.The basic message behind the book is that you don't need a guru/teacher/psychotherapist to attain peace, since you already possess the knowledge you need and must look for meaning within rather than solutions from others."If you meet the Buddha on the road, kill him" is an expression that means you don't need to rely on a teacher for enlightenment.I found the book to be too simplistic, and it downplayed the role psychotherapists can play in helping their patients make sense of their pains.

That's what I thought when I was halfway through the If You Meet the Buddha on the Road Kill Him. Towards the end though it completely changed my perspective.
But the message doesn't ends here and you end up knowing or rather remembering, like a forgotten dream, much more than you thought.The book is divided into four parts which I will not mention.
But the author draws from his personal experiences as well and this is what makes this book so realistically honest.In all a must read, for towards the end you will find though you have learnt nothing new you were not aware of already.
He sees psycho therapy as a wrestling match between the therapist and the patient in which the latter tries to force the therapist to make him better and the therapist keeps fighting this until finally the patient gives up fighting and realizes only they can heal themselves.
The process also involves giving up being special in your suffering: no one gets to be special as it usually involves being especially hurt and not noticing others hurts.
As my late friend and one time therapist Andra told me: 'I looked at the small print in your contract and suffering is not an essential part of the deal; its largely optional, Ed'
Wow, I first read this 28 years ago!
WOW.
I had been in therapy for 6 yrs at that point, and my first emotion was embarassment.
ARRGGHH!!" Even as I was laughing.To this day, I remember and quote lines from the Eschatological Laundry list.
For someone in the working world (and ain't we all), one of the most critical and useful (however shocking I found it initially) is "All decisions must be made on the basis of insufficient data." So many times, I remember that.I've also found that a person's initial response to that list tells me a lot about whether we are compatible.
Avrei voluto dare 4,5 stelline. Una sola cosa è importante nella vita: ascolta gli altri, ma non vivere la vita di nessun altro. Detta così può sembrare un cliché da canzoncina di una ragazzina quindicenne, ma non cambia il fatto che sia la realtà.È uno dei libri che regalerei a tutti quelli che conosco.
I am one of the people to read this book because of it being mentioned in the TV series "The Fringe".
I have never read a book on Psychology (the voices in my head had up until now convinced me I didn't need to) and I didn't expect to enjoy this or understand what was going on.
I actually did enjoy this, I think I even understand the reason it was mentioned in the TV series, the journey is not just for the patient it is for the psychologist too.If Sheldon B.
Kopp compares psychotherapy to a spiritual journey, and by the end of the book, I knew it was just that.
He takes seveal classic books and shows us the pilgrim's path and compares them to different aspects of therapy and the therapeutic relationship.
I wish, though, that Kopp would have addressed the whole subject of the loss of the relationship when therapy ends.
I don't want to be a diciple or a follower, that seems to be the opposite reason of why I'm in therapy.
But the loss of the support and insight and the presence of that person in the patient's life was never really addressed.
Sebbene sia scritto da uno psicoterapeuta e spesso vengono fatti riferimenti ad esperienze da lui avute nel corso della carriera, ciò che mi ha colpito fin dalle prime pagine sono i continui rimandi a grandi classici della letteratura.
Viene tracciata una linea che collega libri come l'epopea di Gilgamesh, il Tao Te Ching e Don Chisciotte con i più recenti trattati sulla psicologia per delineare i tratti fondamentali della natura umana, tratti spesso sconvenienti, ma che vanno accettati per poter vivere in pace con sé stessi (o almeno provarci).Un libro da leggere.
I rarely say it, but I think this is an absolute must-read. Some views are outdates, ok, but if you go beyond those few limits, this is the best thing you can read on the meaning (or rather on the lack of meaning) of life, and on the journey of the pilgrimage/human being trough it. The style is spontaneous and authentic, and the ideas expressed contain great wisdom. Do yourself a favor and read it.
However, I think those with literal interpretations of holy books would have a hard time with what Dr. Kopp recognizes as the first step in any patient’s pilgrimage: there is no point to anything, and this world is all that we have.If You See the Buddha On The Road, Kill Him!
In these sections Kopp tackles subjects like the quest for love, the quest for power, and the quest for meaning.
One of my favorite lessons from these sections was that though Kopp recognizes life as ultimately meaningless, he still prefers someone like the character of Don Quixote who imbues his life with meaning.
I haven't read it yet, but I'm planning to because a character in the tv show Fringe said it was his favorite book. So I have to know what it's about.
This book is a wonderful read for anyone who wonders, worries or agonizes about the meaning of life, and whether they're doing it "right." Whether giving or receiving therapy, this book reminds us that we are all humans -- nobody has all the answers.
You can't make someone love you.I'll stop there -- there's more in the book, and if you find the list discouraging, you need to read the book.
If you find the words encouraging, you need to read the book.
A good addition to the self-help library, along with The Road Less Traveled.
I went into reading this book with an expectation that I knew what to expect.
What I got out of the book was far more than I believed.
Along with the realization that I had no idea what I was thinking, I found parts pissed me off, parts made me happy, parts made me introspective, and other parts made me cry.
At no point did I feel I was wasting my time reading the book.
While some of the material is definitely dated, and my copy had been updated to include both genders (at certain points), I felt that the lessons I learned and what I'm taking away from the book far outweigh the few slights.
Fantastic book for anybody in therapy. Anybody that tells you they have all the answers is a wolf in sheep's clothing. The whole book is worth the axioms at the end. Enjoy!
This actually surprised me how much I liked it. It reads very easily despite being solely addressed to men.I liked the tone of the book as well as the eternal truths and tales of pilgrimage and how that all related to life and therapy.
He does, more toward the end of the book, show more vulnerability and honesty, perhaps enough to look past the otherwise somewhat negative vibe he creates.
One must be prepared to take a hard honest look at their own part in creating their life situations.The text often dates itself (the authors casual references to the merits of a good beating to correct a disruptive child for instance) and at times the author comes across as downright narcissistic.
If you can get past the author himself, there is a lot to be gained from the ideas he presents.
Started off well, the tales from various literature along with the psychological interpretations are interesting.
I really loved the tale of Gilgamesh - it can already make a great epic film!
But somewhere down the line I felt that I got what it was trying to say, and it kept saying the same thing with various illustrations.
midway through the book I am like "alright now!
I've got it.
Coz for me the experience is like watching The Empire States Building for eight hours straight in that Warhol film!
From the Eschatological Laundry List: some of the list that I like and believe:This is it! You only get to keep what you give away.You have a responsibility to do your best nonetheless You can't make anyone love youit is very hard to be an on-your-own,take-care-of -yourself...grown-upAll important decisions must be made on the basis of insufficient dataAnd last but not the least Learn to forgive yourself, again and again and again...This was a interesting read. Very glad to have had it recommended to me.
Really enjoying the message, except for the author's struggle with the plight of the female. Ironically I think the stories that he adds in order to give examples or clarification are distracting from the meat of the book, I think they're just too archaic for me.--*after finishing*--It's funny that I've had this sitting on my shelf for over three years, and I just now picked it up to read it and found so many parallels with what I'm thinking and going through presently. At times, synchronicity is glorious.
I read this while a teenager at the request of my Father. I don't know why, since I wasn't into any "subversive" groups (at the worst, it was the Girl Scouts), but the content has really helped me as I grew up and developed an interest into alternative religion. The lack of "googly-eyes" in this field, where almost everyone who publishes a book gains an ego and expects fawning followers - they just don't impress me. I do make mistakes now and then, but I can't help but weed out "fluffy-bunny" new-age philosophies due to this book. Thank-you Mr. Kopp.
Made me not want to read any book related to therapy ever again. The last "How To:" Get on with it. I'll think I'll write a Daybook for Neurotics after this just to drive the point home... Day 1: Damn. Life Has No Meaning, Day 2 - 365: Stop Worrying About It. The following 370 pages will be filled with gibberish and illustrations by children in third world countries divorced from the explanations of the "Therapists" that seek to find meaning in the abyss. It is just 'the abyss.' You are not that important. Go make yourself useful.
My professor for Intro to Counseling recommended this, The Velveteen Rabbit, and Stella Luna as his favorite books. Basically, the key to psychotherapy is that there is no key. Anyone claiming to be "the Buddha" is dangerous because one of the central points of Buddhism is that we're all buddhas, we're all seeking enlightenment. As a therapist, you can't cure anyone you can only help people cure themselves.
I had to re-read this book, because the first time I was not paying as much attention as I should have when I was reading it. I'm so glad that I did!From this book you can learn so many things about life and how to deal with your own problems. It has helped me to overcome some of my own problems.I recommend it to anyone who feels like his/her life has lost any meaning and to people who are interested in psychology.
The first part was slow going, it took me a while to get into the rhythm of the book. I really liked part two where he uses epic tales to convey his message. Part three and four using his clinical and personal life experiences put it all together for me. Now I understand the title of the book and also need to try and remember "... our very efforts to catch hold of what we are seeking may prevent us from discovering what is already there."
There are a lot of good ideas in this book, and much of it is compelling reading. Take what you can and discard the rest. Full review: http://bit.ly/XkHa6l
This book reminds me a lot of "Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance" - totally mind-expanding in an intellectually fluffy sort of way.
