https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38212121-from-here-to-eternity
This book was an eye opening experience to see different countries and cultures and their methods of burying the dead.I found it fascinating to learn of so many different methods from an open air funeral pyre, to cultures who keep a body in the house for 5, 10+ years mummifying the body, to Indonesia where they prop up their bodies, to Japan where they have very ultra-modern places to sit with the deceased and where relatives use chopsticks to pluck their loved- ones’ bones from cremation ashes, to homes that store skulls, and many more.
And that feels like the key to this all-right, 3.5 star (at best) book.It feels like flushed with the deserved success of first book, Smoke Gets in Your Eyes: And Other Lessons from the Crematory, the author had decided to have a dual career as of funeral home proprietor and writer and had cast around for a subject to write about it.
You might want to consider a ritual that is personal for the family, and less the killingly expensive pressure that benefits the funeral directors.
Doughty explores some of the standard expectations of other places and I felt like I learned a lot, from the Japanese crematorium experience (where the family watches), to the corpses living with families on an island in Indonesia, to the idea that a burial plot is only as good as long as the body is decomposing in Spain (and not a permanent space as it is in the USA.) Doughty also tells the story of how the way a Mexican town honors their dead is healing to her friend who lost a baby.Such a minor part, but I found myself fascinated by the pages about whales...
Caitlin Doughty has done it again: dragged us death-phobic Westerners into the light of what grieving and death could (and maybe should) look like.
In From Here to Eternity, Caitlin travels the globe and shares her first-hand experiences of getting up close and personal with death rituals from around the world.
I still don't know what I'd like to happen to my remains after I die, but thanks to Caitlin Doughty, I have hope that we as a culture can move towards a more open-minded, natural approach to death that allows different preferences and options to be acceptable and attainable for everyone.
I absolutely LOVED this.
She looks at expenses, dignity, and the seeming moratorium on public grief here in the states.In contrast, Doughty takes the reader along with her as she travels the world learning about other cultures' death rituals and mourning practices.
I was ready to say, "No thank you, macabre Eat Pray Love." But now I have to eat my words!
Doughty looks at different cultural traditions without a tinge of fetishization, and with a whole lot of respect.
I mean...
She pulls back the curtain, gives you honesty and insight, and makes death a whole lot less scary.Can't recommend this book enough!!
fascinating book about the various cultures and how they interact with death, and the concept of the departed or loved one. were many non-western cultures perform more natural acts of burial, a non-industrial cremation. some use a pyre to lit a loved one, while others keep them mummified, and visit them often. The Japanese use chopsticks to pluck their loved one's bones from the ashes. Fascinating and written beautifully
4.5In her second book, Caitlin takes us around the world to take a look at how other cultures view and treat death.
If you're already aware of how bizarre, detached and corporate-ified the US is about death, this will be a lovely trip through some truly beautiful rituals and cultures.
If you aren't aware, well, this might be a bit jarring for you.
I can't recommend her writing enough, and would definitely recommend her first book Smoke Gets in Your Eyes: And Other Lessons from the Crematory if you'd like to learn a bit more about the way our current death care system works.
In the US, death has become a lucrative business, and bodies are whisked away and kept hidden, and there are only two options offered: embalming/burial or cremation.
At the same time, this can be accomplished without compromising the health or safety of the living.I found myself jealous of many of the practices described here, and thinking about my own choices for my body after I die.
In the end, I don't want to be embalmed, and would even prefer not to be burned - I'd love for my body to be returned back to the earth in the least invasive, time-consuming way, so my nutrients can go back into creating new forms of life.
I didn't enjoy this quite as much as Doughty's previous book, Smoke Gets in Your Eyes: And Other Lessons from the Crematory, but some parts were really interesting (Himalayan vultures with nine-foot wing spans) and others quite moving (people grieving their dead children).
I didn't think that it was possible, but I loved this even more than Smoke Gets in Your Eyes. I like to pretend that I'm not, but I am an extremely squeamish person. Despite that, Doughty had me hooked on page one. From Here to Eternity is entertaining, surprisingly heart warming, and very eye-opening.Special thanks to NetGalley for the ARC. This book will be out October 3, and I highly recommend grabbing a copy.
Το «From here to eternity» είναι το δεύτερο βιβλίο της, το πρώτο ήταν το «Smoke gets in your eyes», και σε αυτό το non-fiction βιβλίο της αφήνει πίσω την αυτοβιογραφική της διάθεση για μια πιο αποστασιοποιημένη αφήγηση.Η Doughty αποφάσισε να ταξιδέψει σε διάφορες χώρες με σκοπό να γνωρίσει από κοντά τους διάφορους τρόπους με τους οποίους οι άνθρωποι διαχειρίζονται τους νεκρούς τους και τον θάνατο γενικά.
Θεωρώ όμως ότι διαβάζοντας τέτοια κείμενα ανακαλύπτω όλο και περισσότερα για τον εαυτό μου και νιώθω πως με βοηθάνε να αποδεχτώ την δική μου θνησιμότητα.Η γραφή της δεν είναι τίποτα το σπουδαίο αλλά καταφέρνει να σε κρατήσει και αισθάνεσαι μέρος μιας φιλικής αφήγησης ενός ταξιδιού.
This author is so awesome. I want to go to her funeral facility when I pass. More to come.
3  starsI absolutely LOVED Smoke Gets in Your Eyes: And Other Lessons from the Crematory. It was a quirky memoir of an inexperienced cremation assistant finding her feet in a macabre and sometimes quite depressing industry.But Caitlin has grown up, the funeral business is no longer just funny anecdotes but an industry that sometimes hurt the grieving more than help by making the final goodbye so absurdly clinical that it loses its humanity.This book follows Caitlin around the world exploring dif
It was a quirky memoir of an inexperienced cremation assistant finding her feet in a macabre and sometimes quite depressing industry.But Caitlin has grown up, the funeral business is no longer just funny anecdotes but an industry that sometimes hurt the grieving more than help by making the final goodbye so absurdly clinical that it loses its humanity.This book follows Caitlin around the world exploring different ways in which cultures revere, fear, celebrate and even at times resurrect the dead.
This was not what I was expecting, which was a SGIYE part two.
This is very much an informational nonfiction rather than a memoir, though there are memoir-esque elements about the companions Caitlin travelled with.
This is a great overview of death rituals around the world, but not an in depth resource for death geeks.
My favorite chapter was about Japan, as there were more details that helped me understand their rituals and culture.
I wish Caitlin had been more present in the text as she was in SGIYE.
I would still recommend this though and read anything else she publishes.
This book was so interesting! It really got me thinking tbh. Recommend Caitlin's books to everyone they're so good!!

I guess that could go to show that we're not as death squeamish as we think and that there is hope for progress among the pearl-clutchers but I wanted more glimpses of what other cultures do with their dead because I already live here and know what we do with corpses.She starts out in Colorado (Represent!) and I'm going to go ahead and talk about what I thought of each chapter but I'll put it all under a spoiler tag in case you want to be surprised in regard to the places she travels and the things she sees!(view spoiler)[Colorado: CrestoneCaitlin comes to Colorado!
Our dead are basically ripped from us, held in morgues and funeral homes, with little transition from the state of living to being buried in a cemetery or being resigned to the flames during cremation.
We've lost our intimacy with death, even though one day we will all pass away, and now it's an expensive proposition to die in America.
Read this book with an open mind, and I can almost guarantee that you may change your mind about the way the death industry works in America.
From Here to Eternity asks us to confront our bias against other cultures’ “savage” death rituals and see how they might be healthier than the usual Western approach of denying/hiding death.
Many rituals Doughty observes are about maintaining a personal connection to the dead.
In South Sulawesi, Indonesia, corpses remain with their families for months or years, preserved as mummies.
Other destinations include a North Carolina body farm that is attempting to compost corpses and a Japanese columbarium where you find your loved one’s remains using a smart card.
This didn’t blow me away like her first book, but it was still a pretty fascinating read. The cool illustrations added a lot, and were, I would imagine, more pleasant than actual photos would have been. The writing was a little flat and research paper-ish, though. I really wanted more of Doughty’s wacky personality.
It makes it feel so cold and upsetting to know that I'm just going to end up six feet under and my body will be left there alone to decay until one of my family member's come to visit.
Being cremated into an urn doesn't seem much different either and I especially don't want to that out of fear that once my close family passes and everything changes that my urn will just end up lost somewhere so I guess it would be better to have my urn interred in a crypt somewhere but there will still be the problem of no celebrations, no joy and no spending time with the dead.
Few life events affect us more than the death of a loved one. At times, it can seem that grief is monolithic, but not every culture deals with death and grief in the same way. The death culture of the US endeavors to paint a pleasing facade over what we consider macabre. Embalmers camouflage the reality of the grave with chemicals and adornments. Cemeteries wall off the dead behind stone, concrete, and coffin wood. In her nonfiction book   From Here to Eternity: Traveling the World to Find the G
delves into death cultures around the globe, thus casting a stark contrast between our national death avoidance and cultures that literally take death into their arms.On her binge of thanotourism, Doughty investigated cultures in Belize, Indonesia, Mexico, Japan, Spain, and Bolivia in addition to small enclaves within the United States.
The first is that these cultures live closely with the dead and are not afraid to touch their bodies or their relics.
This clear writing prowess in combination with her experience as a Los Angeles mortician allow Doughty to make effective contrasts between American death culture and what she believes are healthier attitudes towards death.
If Jessica Mitford's "Behind the Formaldehyde Curtain" frightened us into facing the reality of dying in America, Caitlin Doughty's writing is like being hugged and told everything is going to be okay. Once again Doughty guides us along an entertaining, informative and empathetic journey through death culture and this time we get to travel the world as we do it. Just like her first book, this is a title I want to hand to people and say, "Read it and then let's talk."
4/5Solidly written, intelligent, witty, insightful, and unexpectedly heartfelt. I love Caitlin's YouTube series, Ask a Mortician, and equally loved her first book and memoir, The Smoke Gets in your Eyes. Although this book was less autobiography and more historical and informational, I did definitely enjoy it. Plus, the illustrations were haunting and gorgeous.
Calling all fans of cultural anthropology for this dive into how different cultures approach death and funereal rights is eye opening and fascinating.
I never know how other people will react to this subject but I found her former book, Smoke gets in your Eyes, which talked about the cremation process utterly engrossing.
This book is no exception.
Having observed first hand funerals in Bali and Sulawesi, her comments were right on.
I also work with hospice and found many of her comments so applicable to dealing with the death and dying.
Reading this book gave me some good ideas for conversation starters! Doughty's last book, Smoke Gets in Your Eyes: And Other Lessons from the Crematory, was a "pull the curtains back" on the funerary industry piece, and I enjoyed that one immensely. This book follows a different logic altogether, instead of Doughty sharing information about her field, she is now learning right along with us as she travels to a few locations [Indonesia, Bolivia, Spain, Mexico, various locations in the US) and learns more about their rituals around death, burial practices, etc.3.5/5
I was actually surprised I would Love this book as much has I did! From the first page I was engrossed! It had me like Do people really do these things with their deceased loved ones? It gave me a more cultural perspective on death and how far people will go to persevere that life. I finished this pretty quickly mainly bc I couldn't put it down. When i wasn't reading it I was thinking about it. Haha. I highly recommend this book!!
*My 5th book for the 2018 PopSugar Challenge -#17.
given to me as a gift.* This book was special and eye-opening.
I was introduced to new cultures and new customs regarding death, a topic in which I've always been interested.
This book made me rethink everything I thought I knew about death culture and options after passing.
I hope this book and Doughty are able to spark a change in America's for-profit, sterilized, death industry and give more control to people, rather than the government and corporations.
I also really wanna go get a drink with Doughty.
I highly recommend this book.
Perhaps we in the West, especially in the USA where the death industry is just like everything else in this country -- capitalism gone crazy -- have something to learn from the way other cultures honor their dead.
We visit Spain and Italy, Tibet and Mexico, Bolivia and the USA, learning about the customs, rituals, and attitudes concerning the dead.Some people might find this book a little too disturbing.
However, for those who can handle thinking about death and who have an open mind to other cultures and their practices, this is a most fascinating and fun read.
No entendía el cinismo de ir al tanatorio o velatorio o misa solo por quedar bien con la familia del difunto.
Del viaje de una mujer sensible- la autora- por varios lugares del mundo para conocer como se enfrentan a la muerte.
Es todo lo contrario, tiene una "retranca" y un humor negro muy divertido pero también ayuda a reflexionar y tiene unas ilustraciones que suman y complementan muy bien el libro.Cuando era más joven, sabía que no me gustaba las tradiciones de mi tierra; ahora, gracias a Caitlin Doughty, sé exactamente porqué y como puedo intentar solucionarlo.Librazo de mil estrellas.
From Here to Eternity: Travelling the World to Find the Good Death by Caitlin Doughty It seemed only fitting that I chose to read Caitlin Doughty's “From Here to Eternity" on a rainy Saturday afternoon on the third anniversary of my mother’s death and contemplate a subject that makes most of us a little squeamish.
Doughty's book is a frank and good humored look at death rituals around the world.
"All will die...We avoid the death that surrounds us at our own peril, missing its beauty and its lessons.
Death avoidance is not an individual failing; it's a cultural one." There is much within these pages to think on and learn.
