https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22416.Transmetropolitan_Vol_1
I don't really know what to say about this one, except it was off the wall and crazy in the best way possible.The main character is this deranged genius of a journalist, who only comes back to the city because he owes his publisher and the money is already spent.
For years he's been living off the grid like a hardcore prepper and is loathe to come back to civilization.
And within a few days of living in the city, he breaks one of the biggest stories of the day, simply by following his instincts.That does not even scratch the surface of Transmetropolitan.

In the sixties, writers of varying stripes adopted this style in rejection of the repressive fifties, but it took longer to spread to comics.We can see the same form in action in Transmet, in Ellis' protagonist, Spider Jerusalem, a post-cyberpunk stand-in for Thompson.
The best ideas are never one idea, and though Spider's politics sometimes grow to dominate the series, Ellis still contrasts them with a multitude of concepts, leaving us with a pleasing depth of insight.I can only hope that more comic authors will realize that sex and violence--even at their most over-the-top--can be vital, complex parts of a story, but only if they have a point.
The word 'unique' doesn't even start to describe our title character and the story. From the moment I heard the name of our guy, I was hooked!Spider Jerusalem, (crazy) journalist: A man who sees through everyone's bullshit.if that's not enough to win you over, look at the character design!*It's like the combination of the two band members from System of down!*  I Hate it here! Spider Jerusalem was one hell of a journalist. But after years of Journalism, the man had enough of the city. He has bee
From the moment I heard the name of our guy, I was hooked!Spider Jerusalem, (crazy) journalist: A man who sees through everyone's bullshit.if that's not enough to win you over, look at the character design!*It's like the combination of the two band members from System of down!* 
He has been living on top of a mountain for last five years like a very peaceful monk....on drugs.He is a junkie, paranoid and pretty sure he is crazy too.
Just to make things crazier, there are machines on drugs, genetically engineered cats, and flying shoes.The first three chapters introduce our crazy character: His return to the city in all glory and his first live reporting...
Hunter S.
Thompson Spider Jerusalem reluctantly returns from his self-imposed exile to emerge anew as the premier gonzo journalist.Anyway, you don't learn journalism in a school.
You learn it by WRITING FUCKING JOURNALISM.
You teach yourself to wire up your own brain and gut and reproductive organs into one frightening machine that you aim at the planet like a meat gun - - In addition to his mighty pen, his only other weapon is the truth, and something called a bowel disrupter set to prolapse.
You're in the perfect mood for journalism.
A kick-ass comic about writing?Mind blowing.
Written by one of my favorite comic writers, Warren Ellis. This series is in the running for my top five favorite comics of all time. That might seem like faint praise until you consider the fact that it's competing with comics like Sandman, Bone, Hellboy, Lucifer, and Girl Genius.
It was a time when comic books had to reinvent themselves or fade into obscurity - a time when something as unconventional and confrontational as Transmetropolitan felt like it might actually have a chance, when somebody as cocky and subversive and spectacular and capable as renegade gonzo journalist Spider Jerusalem seemed like the man for the job.Rereading the series now, I see little more than a cartoon version of the Hunter S.
Still, I've always felt that pop culture belongs to the young, so I am not going to sneer at mini-me: five stars from my younger (and better looking) self, three from the current one (who is in the process of packing up) - four sounds like a fair compromise.
Thompson is alive and well done, shambling across the pages of Warren Ellis’ 1998 Transmetropolitan volume number one: Back on the Streets.First published in 1998, this only demonstrates the great vision Ellis had then, he was a canary in the coal mines as much of what he wrote 20 years ago could have been created today.Spider Jerusalem.
Drawn down from his mountain lair five years after leaving the city, he returns to see racism, sexism, corruption, drug addiction and crass commercialism – all the elements of civilization that drove him away before and that pulls him back in again.Warren Ellis and illustrator Darick Robertson collaborate to create a lightning rod, two fisted, hammer down monster truck rally of gonzo-esque TRUTH HURTS.
Impoverished and drug-addled, Jerusalem has no choice but to comply; he gets a job writing a column called I Hate It Here, a chronicle of his experiences in the scifi megalopolis known as The City.Throughout the comic, Jerusalem is portrayed as an underdog, fighting for the rights of the common man.
But he's a jerk the author clearly wants you to empathize with.I'm not saying Spider's antics aren't endearing; I like it as much as the next guy when crazy religious leaders are threatened with violence.
Spider Jerusalem gets everything he wants.
In a world where people change species when they feel like it?
I don't buy it.Anyway, most people seem to like this comic, so odds are you will, too.
It's one of those comics series that you hear about here and there, so I decided to give it a go.
Spider is supposedly meant to be a moral character, and yet when the story starts it is made abundantly clear that he isn't - he'd signed a contract, taken the money and ran.
He then leaves his car in the middle of a traffic jam and wanders over everyone elses.
I shall try the second book in case there's something I'm clearly missing, but as a start to a series 'Back on the Street' leaves something to be desired...
Knowing that he can't write without being in the city, Spider makes the shaky and hesitant journey from solitary confinement to people saturation, losing the Alan Moore look he's been cultivating for the Hunter S Thompson image that we all know and love.The best thing about this series, or one of them anyway, is the way everything is skewed and different from our world but seems familiar in small ways.
Like Monkey Burger or Ebola Cola, to the kind of narcissistic twerps who endlessly blog and tweet and flood the net with their boring lives, there's plenty here that's similar to our world.More best things about this series: Warren Ellis' writing.
I don't usually reread but I was in a mood for some dark humor and missed the insane bastard.I think this is second series I started (first was Sandman) since I rediscovered comicbooks and graphic novels.Since the nearly 2 years has passed and dozen of series and over 200 volumes but this is just as good and crazy as first time I read it.
I wrote a whole thing about how amped I am about having read Transmetropolitan, but I’m just gonna have to be redundant: this cyberpunk tale of political corruption being faced head-on by a badass journalist and his badass assistants made me happy in my heart. I binge-read like 60 issues in three days.— Susie Rodarmefrom The Best Books We Read In December 2016: http://bookriot.com/2017/01/03/riot-r...
Well, I changed my avatar to Spider Jerusalem. I think a review is redundant.
Spider gleeful spreads his the wanton destruction aimlessly, all while expressing a holier-than-thou attitude toward virtually every person on the planet, all the mindless sheep he hypocritically despises; he decries their addictions as he throws back handfuls of pills, laments their addiction to entertainment in his weekly shock column, and calls them out for their selfish, shallow pursuits in the city after he spent years getting stoned in a lonely cabin in the woods.
Skepticism can be useful in unraveling a lie or puzzle, but cynicism all too easily becomes hateful spite and offers nothing but boring tirades for those unlucky enough to associate with a cynic.Unapologetically shallow and unforgiveably stupid, Transmetropolitan is one of the worst comics I have ever read.
This is manic, biting, and brilliant. Ellis takes on everything he can think of: magpie popular culture, the media, politics, and anything else in his path. And though I haven't read everything he's ever written, I can definitely say that this is one of his best works. You know, I was a little irritated when I got the trade and saw just how thin it is, only three issues. But those are three powerful issues, with more substance than six issues of 90% of the comics out there.
He uses drugs like a normal meal and has a lot of weapons (or used to) and no regard for other people's property or even their lives - which is not what one pictures when thinking about a JOURNALIST / AUTHOR!However, after the first few impressions of the city he lived in and now has to go back to, it was no surprise he turned out this way.
But we also have really dark stuff like religious movements, the physical alterations (not just on humans but on animals too), drugs for basically everything imaginable, plain and simple violence and everyone seems to be a nut job.What I loved?
I love the main character.Loony, unpredictable, mood-swingy Spider Jerusalem (I'm excited to find out about his name) - fighter for truth and justice :D kh..khhh..He's on a roll from the very start:"Working this tollbooth all week, pissing in a whiskey bottle and weakly jerking off over the radio porn that aerial picks up...must be a tough life.
I put off reviewing this graphic novel to give it a fair shake but my feelings haven't changed.
I found the main character to be chaotic and without much in the way of morals and most of his attempts to be funny just turned out crude or got a question mark for me.
The artwork felt jammed on the page rather than flowing nicely.
There were certainly some interesting ideas within but I found myself struggling in the latter 20% of the the graphic novel.
ARTWORK: C plus to B minus; STORY/PLOTTING: C plus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B minus; OVERALL GRADE: C plus to B minus; WHEN READ: January to early February 2012.
I picked this up from my library on a whim.
I'm not a huge fan of the urban future sci-fi genre.
I much prefer dark urban fantasy but I figured, why not.
It could be fun.
Right?Hell yeah, it was fun!
It was gritty, interesting, hilarious, entertaining, and crazy.
I love the main character.
He's absolutely insane but for all the right reasons.
His rants were awesome and his vulgarity was epic.
The art was also fantastic and really set the mood for the story.
Well done.I definitely recommend this one to anyone who likes futuristic sci-fi or fantasy in an urban setting.
Seems all too relevant right now.
Prophetic for 1997, Ellis nails the subject matter and the art is pretty darn good for mid/late 90's.
Spider is a journalist that has been in hiding and comes back to the city to only see its a nightmare filled with police brutality, TV overload, and religious cults.
The personality on spider is comical and in your face, which i found to be really entertaining.
Ellis really does a great job and describing all the modern problem that are still relevant today, especially the over saturation of TV.
It's a wild, profanity laced book not for the weak that is sure to entertain.
I agree with most of what Ellis is saying in this book, but I'm not really a fan of HOW he is saying it. It's a bit too juvenile and obvious, and nowhere near as subversive as it likes to think it is. Overall, it's not at all bad, it just didn't connect with me. I'll give it a few more volumes to see whether or not I change my mind about Ellis as a writer.
Many have kept me interested and excited until the end/current story arc (Chew, Sandman, Preacher, Scalped, Y The Last Man) while there are some that performed poorly after the first volume (Black Science, Sex Criminals).Transmetropolitan captures what the 90s is made of: beautifully chaotic and crazily colorful (not psychedelic because that would be the 70s), plus a handful of shitbombs here and there made by intelligence-inducing drug user gonzo journalist named Spider Jerusalem.Our protagonist definitely has a heart but is so fed up with urban pop culture / a city ripe with weird fashion statements, racial discrimination and prostitution with other "normal" people living their normal life that reacts violently whenever something radical shows ups in the news or whatever sources which they subjectively deem to be credible.
My buddy Chris has also told me it's a must read Ellis story.
The remaining stories are basically one offs, different themes, but all connect to Spider and how he works.
The themes and stories mostly cover religion, product placement, and so much more.
Every story was interesting, funny, insightful, and the religion one at the end just killed me.
Ellis writes the main lead as a loud mouth asshole, but it works, and it does make me laugh.
I suspect I'd like if the first few chapters reversed with the last few but overall I wasn't overly impressed with the first arc.
Absolutamente todo: desde la narrattiva, pasando por la estructura visual, hasta los diálogos y todo lo que escupe brutalmente Spider Jerusalem: "No matter how big the idea they all stand under, people are small and weak and cheap and frightened.
It's people that kill every revolution"Pero además, es especialmente fantástico por la atinada manera de mostrar el periodismo, o al menos cómo debería ser.
Es mi oficio hace más de 10 años, y Spider ofrece una de las mejores definiciones que he leído en mucho tiempo: "Y´see, they say journalism is the art of controlling your environment, but that´s all wrong.
Transmetropolitan does not pull punches- from its dystopian future where overcrowded cities are clearly divided into upper, middle and lower class areas to the invasive advertising to corrupt politicians to abusive police to the "trans" movement which has gone from gender to species.
This is not a story about anything other than Warren Ellis's take on our modern society viewed through the eyes of the journalist Spider.
From genetically modified cats to drugs for everything under to the sun, to modern religions it is a dark, yet weirdly twisted and funny satire of our society.
But, then lawyers get involved and pay off some of the trans movements people to riot.
The President of the United States comes in for a particularly well-deserved hammering from our protagonist Spider Jerusalem which would read like an excoriation of the current president if this hadn't been written 20 years ago.
That's the depressing reality, that everything is still the same and probably always will be the same, unless you have something like Spider come along to really shake things up.
Despite the whole mass of unlikeable traits, Spider comes across as someone who deep down really cares, and you really wish that his point of view will win out but you know it won't.
Ellis' lightning writing makes my brain sit up and take notice - the tight phrasing, constant barrage of unpleasant yet intriguing ideas/scenes/concepts, coupled with a completely insane, totally id-driven hero, all conspire to keep me far too alert and fuels my longstanding paranoia.Robertson's art is energetic, fully-formed (filling frames, not just phoning them in) and just plain whacky.
I actually find myself gleefully drinking in the details of every panel - *that* is compelling art.At least once per issue there's a *vivid* line or phrase that gets me belly-laughing - vile, hate-filled or both.
Cool artwork, and I can see what Ellis is doing. He has a knack for writing about the world in a weird way. However just wasnt for me.
