https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49048.The_Wind_on_the_Moon
Very strange, yet unforgettable children's book.
I read this firstly when I was in my last year in Junior school.
I absolutely loved it then.
When I met my now husband, I found out he had read it in school and loved it too, so we bought a copy and read it again.
It had lost none of its charm and we both really enjoyed it despite being in our twenties.
I would urge any parent or teacher to encourage children to read this book which is clever, bewitching and very funny!
I bought a first edition of The Wind on the Moon for my husband for a special Birthday.
"The Wind on the Moon is a wartime book - it was published in 1944 - and it dwells on those elements of life in short supply or under threat in Britain, such as food, and liberty, and fun. It is not a prisoner of the time, though, and one of its delights is the cavalier way in which Linklater swings between pure fantasy and the everyday made fantastic."James Meek in the Guardianhttp://gu.com/p/xtdkz?CMP=Share_iOSAp...
Först gjorde den mig nostalgisk och var lite underhållande. Sen blev den väldigt rolig och spännande. Levde mig helt in i Dina och Dorindas värld. Fantastiskt språk och väldigt fin och klok. Nu kommer jag ihåg varför jag älskade den när jag var 8. 1944 känns inte alls långt borta.
Both take time to make philosophical observations about the world and how we can know it.
Like all good philosophy books it asks more than it answers and it asks many of the right questions.As a work of children's fiction I think it does well.
Being written in wartime by one who had served and been shot in a previous world shattering conflict, it is perhaps saying to the next generation; forget the way we learnt.
Would we still be reading Lewis Carrol and Kenneth Graham in such numbers if they'd had different illustrators?
Then I left primary school, and somehow didn't think about it in years.
All in all, I think it's been 15-20 years since I read it last.Somehow I got thinking about it recently, and got an urge to reread it.
However I really wanted to read it out loud to my nieblings.And fortunately it turned out that "The Wind on the Moon" is just as good at age 33 as at age 10, and I loved every minute of rereading it.
The first section of the book took some getting used to, with what I'll describe as some brutal absurdity. Once I got used to the characterizations common to the earlier 20th century (a la Three Stooges, Red Skelton, etc.), the story turned largely away from pathetic protagonists into Homeric heroines. It was ultimately an uniquely narrated caper that I found enjoyable.
The scene with all the hunting dogs biting each other was dull in the way that only empty frenetic activity can be.
Other sections of this book I was indeed caught up.Episodes with more danger and adventure, I liked better.
Some of the danger was surprisingly real, for a book with so much childish whimsy.
When the last adversary had some aspects that were evil in a very un-whimsical way, I had to look up whether the book was written during the war.
So I'd wish to send this book back for a substantial rewrite.
It ended up being a very unique, charming, and even moving story.
I loved reading about Dinah and Dorinda's adventures living as kangaroos in a zoo(well, I did say it was unique) and trying to solve a mystery there.
I enjoyed most of the characters(though Dinah and Dorinda seemed to blend together on occasion), and actually felt rather attached to a few of them.
Around the middle, things felt a bit too slow, and the ending was slightly befuddling.
It's so creative and engaging most of the time though that I think it really deserves a 4-star rating!
This was not what I was expecting!
I picked it up at the library, intrigued by the cover first and illustrations second.
I assumed I would be reading a story of British school-girl highjinks during WWII.
Kind of.
The adventures in which Dinah and Dorinda find themselves are totally fantastical.
Even more so because Linklater writes about these 2 young girls turning into kangaroos as if it were the usual thing to write about...and even the usual thing to do.
I won't say anymore, because if you are intrigued, you should read it without further spoilers from me.
Another great title from this excellent series put out by the NY Review of Books.This starts off a bit stodgy, and it feels as if it started as one of those "tell me astory, Daddy" things that somehow, in the 30s and 40s, got turned into books.Don't try that today - it won't work. But the two heroines are engaging, real, funnyand brave. Their adventures fall into two distinct stories, one in a zoo and the otherin Mittel-Europa, where they rescue their father from a dungeon. A pair of Crimean-Warsappers make a zany but amusing appearance, and all ends well.
I read this out loud to my kiddos and we really enjoyed it! Even my 7 year old begged to listen to it! They giggled a lot and enjoyed trying to see if they could figure out the mysteries, or figure out how they would get out of certain situations. An enjoyable thing to read all together.
This book is meant to be read on lazy summer days. It is full of adventure and mischief. The pace is a little slow, but a patient young reader will be rewarded with a thrilling ending.
Mycket fin barnboksklassiker och en fantastisk teater på Elverket. Recension på bloggen: http://elilaserochskriver.se/detblase...
At the start of The Wind on the Moon, Dinah and Dorinda are watching their father, Major Palfrey, pack his trunk: he's getting ready to go to war.
Because if it is an ill wind, and you behave badly, it will blow straight into your heart, and then you will behave badly for a long time to come.' (7)Dinah and Dorinda don't necessarily mean to misbehave, but they don't get off to a very good start: that very night, in the course of "helping" their father pack, they wrinkle his uniforms and dirty his shirts; they also give both their parents a fright by tying bells to the apple tree outside, thinking the music they make will be pleasing.
Still later, they learn their father is a prisoner in a faraway castle...The girls reminded me of the best child characters in fiction - they aren't pretty and twee but full of fun and bravery, mischief and curiosity.
The animal characters too are well drawn and a lot of fun, and the book makes some good points about zoos and freedom (both good and bad points are raised).The prison chapters reminded me of The Rescuers (which I also recently read for the first time), and is almost a Part Two to the Zoo focus of the first half of the book.
This book is so dear to me. My grandmother used to read it to my mother when she was a child. Then she read it for me when I visited her during my summer holidays. Now it has a very special place in my bookshelf and when I have kids and grandkids I will pick up my worn and loved copy and read it to them as well.
Tyvärr är det dock extremt svårt att veta vad som räknas som "styggt" så flickorna gör fel med de bästa intentioner.
Det finns dock en sagoaktig stämning och alla vuxna i boken är "karaktärer" vilket gör att vi som läsare får lite på att systrarna klarar biffen.
Under perioden när Dina och Dorinda förvandlat sig till känguru och är borta i veckor är mammas kommentar när flickorna återvänder: "Barn nu kommer ni försent till teet igen!" vilket för mig känns som ??!!??Det finns som sagt något magiskt över berättelsen och eventuellt hade jag tyckt om Det blåser på månen om jag var sju år.
WHY: I'm currently picking through the New York Review's children's re-issues and this sounded good.
"In the English village of Midmeddlecum, Major Palfrey asks his two daughters to behave themselves while he is off at war.
Sighs Dinah, 'I think that we are quite likely to be bad, however hard we try not to be,' and her sister Dorinda adds helpfully, 'Very often, when we think we are behaving well, some grown-up person says we are really quite bad.
It's difficult to tell which is which.' A tale of hilarity and great adventure, The Wind on the Moon is also a work of high seriousness; after all, 'life without freedom,' as the valiant puma makes clear, 'is a poor, poor thing.'"
I wish I had read this book as a child - or when my children were still at the age where I could read to them. Delightful story of 2 girls in Britain, written during WWII, with a wonderful reliance on fantasy and imagination. Our 2 heroines are courageous, clever, and like to "think for themselves" (as they say later in the book) - and repeatedly work their way out of trouble with the help of some magic and great friendships.
Written during World War II this children's classic took me back to my childhood, not because I was alive at that time but I remember reading and loving this book in the 1950s. I was probably about 8 or 9, not sure. I could remember the two girls turning into kangaroos, and having adventures with their friend the Puma, but the rest just rang faint bells as I re-read it as an adult. What an imagination Eric Linklater had! Loved it all over again.
Jag har löst boken högt i min fyra under höstterminen. Vi har tyckt om den men den börjar bli lite gammal och lite för ofta har vi gått stanna upp och diskutera skeenden och ord. Det sammantagna betyget blev 3,5 när vi diskuterade den. Historien om Dina och Dorinda och deras händelserika år är underhållande och intressant och stundtals spännande men lite för gammal helt enkelt.
I loved this book. (I have a hard time rating books 4 or 5?) It was published in 1944. One of the reviews said it belonged beside "Alice in Wonderland", "The Jungle Book," and "Wind in the Willows." I haven't actually read any of those - so I couldn't say! But I am looking forward to trying out more of The New York Review Children's Collection.
I read this for the first time when I was 8, and I loved it. A few years later, I bought my own copy and read it again. I loved it none less. (But the book had somehow mysteriously got thinner, even if it was the exact same content. Probably an illusion since I had gotten used to thicker books during the years, but I don't know...)It's quite beautiful this book.
This is probably the book I remember most vividly from when I was a child. It's just amazing, I think I must have read it five times at least. I adore how it's several stories in one, and how much you learn about being human reading it. I don't think I'll ever forget it.
I love this book, and I loved it 50 years ago. Dinah and Dorinda, the best of role models. There are some sad parts, unfortunately. Some of the books I read or heard read as a child made such an impression, in terms of brilliance of idea, and this is one of them.
Someone recommended this book as the best children's book she ever read. I was disappointed. Very childish plot, characters that did not appeal to me at all. Looked like parody about children books by very bad author.
A lovely, absurd story - and I have to wonder why I never read it when I was actually a kid (the length wouldn't have put me off and I was a frequent visitor to the local library, I can't imagine it wasn't there)!
This was my favourite book as a young child and it's just such an adorable and charming story about two sisters and their adventures. It's nothing like you would imagine when you first pick up the book, but i promise that it is a joy to read it even as an adult.
This is a superlative book, it would have 5 stars if it were not for the ending.
