https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190361.Obsidian_Butterfly
Something happens, they have sex for five hundred pages, then the Ardeur snaps it's fingers and kills the badguy.In terms of characters it's obvious that Richard is Hamilton's personal dumping ground from everything she's ever felt about her ex-husband, turning the interesting power dynamic present in the first few books into something sad.
Also, despite the legions of evil creatures (including the oldest and strongest vampires on the planet) that attack her at every turn, nobody close to Anita ever dies.
Starting fights with cops over who's balls are bigger and then letting a man say rude, misogynistic remarks without a peep just proves that Anita doesn't have her priorities straight and is nothing like the "strong, independent woman" she purports to be.Every woman not named "Anita Blake" is a delicate, easily broken flower: the nurse who is "too fragile" to answer questions Anita might have about who is dead and who is alive, a "dwarf" woman who is brutally murdered, a young scientists named Dallas and Edward's fiancee, Donna."That Dallas was oblivious to [Olaf staring at her] made me worry about her just a little...her survival instincts just weren't up to it.""'She's a wimp,' [Peter] said.
This book is a vacation from Anita's usual life because she travels to New Mexico to help Edward, the assassin, solve a case.
So, no love-triangle b.s., which is nice.When arriving in New Mexico, Anita discovers that Edward is engaged to be married to a very naive widow with two adorable children.
Edward's nickname is "Death", and he likes killing things.
And, that's fine - just don't make your characters go there if you don't know how it's done.you can never eat Mexican food too often, Anita Kill-Joy!Okay, so that's out of my system.
okay, NOW it's out of my system.This book had a LOT of killing and violence.
I love the early Anita Blake books, because they are police procedurals set in a fantasy world.
My husband continued to buy the series because he is a collector by nature, but I refused to read them.
The Twilight  series by Stephanie Meyer has similar problems, as it is also a romance involving a werewolf, a vampire, and a human.
When my teenage niece asked for the Twilight series for Christmas this year, I felt like warning her not to get involved in a tangled love affair.
4 Vampy starsTo begin with I have to say that this book is one of my favorites from this series. It is quite true that I have several emotional changes during Anita Blake's books. For several reasons I love and hate this series but the truth is that I have never been bored for a minute while reading one of the series' books! Why I love the books  1) Anita Blake is a woman who can mesure up almost to every man or woman she comes across either human or supernatural and that makes an interesting he
Jean Claude is kind of ok but really at some points he gets just as clingy as the other two and you can never tell whether he is a good guy or a bad one (it made things interesting for a while but at some point you get fed up).Now I know that I seem to like the book for what it doesn't have more than for what it has but it is true that if there weren't so many moments where Anita puts down other female characters it would be an amazing book.
go figure.Obsidian butterfly is a fantastic book filled with torture, essence sucking vampires, sociopath serial killers and monsters that apparently can rip the skin from a human’s body without leaving any tool marks.
Working with a witch to build stronger barriers in hopes to withstand accidental intrusions, Blake is pulled into Edward’s world of gore as he calls in the favor that she owes him.Surrounded by centuries old delusional vampires claiming to be gods, werewolves enabling a psycho necromancer dwarf, Anita really has her hands full.There are several scenes in this book that are to die for!
It is the most gruesome and heart wrenching scene I have ever read.
Totally awkward, a must read!I recommend this book to adults only!
Shocker, right?Do not read this book out-of-order.
I always like how Anita can handle herself, no matter where she is.- The crime was horrific but original (view spoiler)[and I love the twist on the zombie mythology employed here (hide spoiler)]- Obsidian Butterfly herself, and her strange sociopathic sense of justice – in particular the three females and their rapist that she turned into vampires, so that the women could get revenge on the rapist for eternity.- Up until this point in the series, Edward has always been a mystery so to travel to his hometown and see his personal life and the way he conducts himself around other people was fascinating.- As with all the Anita Blake novels, Hamilton gives tantalising glimpses of the reality of living in a world where magic and the supernatural are real and commonplace; such as how the criminal justice system could hold a person who can summon demons at will safely for trial.
Anita does her usual routine: show up, act like a total asshole, hit/kick people, threaten them with guns, posture and stomp off, all arrogant and full of herself.
She is a moron who foolishly takes any opportunity she can to piss people off for absolutely no reason.Look.
I get that this is not a good thing, and that when women act assertive in the same way that men do, they are frequently punished for it.
But Anita Blake is not taking this stereotype on - she's just as asshole.
I like characters to have good reasons to act the way they do, and she doesn't.
Finally, it's Edward's book!A 4 1/2, not quite a five because Anita's badass attitude grates here and there but so much better than the books focused on the triumvirate (sp?) and sexy times.
This is the book the Edward fans were clamoring for and it was worth the wait.
This book lets us in on Edward's secret life when he calls in Anita to help out with a series of grisly murders.
If you're a fan of the earliest books and the harder boiled edge of those stories this might be the last book in the series you should probably read.
This is one series where the reviews are as entertaining as the books are.
I love reading the reviews after I've finished the book.
For this particular book, people either loved it for hated it.
And I am leaning toward the love side.
Even though Jean-Claude wasn't in this one (and I find him very entertaining) I didn't mind.
This is probably the cleanest one yet.
I liked that this wasn't the same-old, same-old.
We got to see a more detailed look at Edward, which I liked.
And I can still say that I like the MC, Anita.
“She'd been punishing people for the same crimes for five hundred years. It was impressive in a psychotic sort of way... I'd told people that I'd chase them into hell to have my vengeance, but I probably didn't mean it. Itzpapalotl would mean every word.”   This is the very best of Anita Blake; straight bad ass bounty hunting Blake with Edward's crew of shooters. The novel gets her away from Missouri to New Mexico: Edward's/Ted's home. It's exciting to see pieces of the man behind the mysteriou
“She'd been punishing people for the same crimes for five hundred years.
I'd told people that I'd chase them into hell to have my vengeance, but I probably didn't mean it.
Itzpapalotl would mean every word.” 
This is the very best of Anita Blake; straight bad ass bounty hunting Blake with Edward's crew of shooters.
The novel gets her away from Missouri to New Mexico: Edward's/Ted's home.
It's exciting to see pieces of the man behind the mysterious assassin who is Anita's great friend and series favorite.Here are my castings:*In the book they are The Broken Spear Clan but the audio calls them The Los Lobos Clan.
Kimberly Alexis is the worlds best audible reader.
But this book starts with Anita starting to pay Edward a favor (after killing his even crazier psycho killer friend, Harold).
But the meeting wasn't a total waste because she finds out Obsidian Butterfly (the Master of the City) is not the god she says she is and that he cryptic talk leads to a dangerous realization (won't say, read the book).
I love the new yet old Edward/Ted. I thought this was a great read and like I said, it is the Anita we know and love, just with a different perspective.
Worse, it’s been done in a way neither she nor Edward’s erstwhile and experienced back up have ever seen.Anita has to find and stop the murderer even as the death toll rises.
That means facing Aztec gods, a fellow necromancer, ancient vampires and a prejudiced police force – even before she gets to the monster itself, which can feel her looking for it, and is watching her.The writing style of this book – indeed of this series – walks that line between being evocative, setting the scene and having that fun, snarky, hard boiled internal narrative that I so love and being extremely over descriptive, pointless and dull.
I've gotten through the first 9, fairly smut free, Anita Blake novels by listening to them on audible or reading the comics instead of the actual books.
Now it's time to up the ante, to see how much (or little) I'll be enjoying Anita's upcoming ardeur and nympho side.
(Too bad, I thought she did a good job with Jean-Claude.) Kimberly Alexis has really added an extra layer of enjoyment to the Anita Blake books.
*Snickers*)This book though, is probably one of my favorite Anita Blake novels to date.
*Shivers* Nevertheless, Anita's mercenary hitmen made this book all the more interesting.
As the author says this one is for all the Edward fans out there.
Right from the beginning I have liked Edward, even when all we knew about him was that he was a cold, mysterious assassin.
In this book we, and Anita, learn more about Edward's background.
It's a fascinating story and full of the action that surrounds both Edward and Anita most of the time.
Anita takes another step in her personal growth in this book as well.
Though she does spend a lot of time trying to determine if she's becoming a sociopath or if she is already one.
i have to admit-this book? worst in the series so far. I skipped most of it and honestly, I feel like it didn’t add anything to the overall series. I think that it would’ve been better as a novella (book 8.5 maybe?) because of all that. If i could return it i would because it’s a waste of money. If you’re reading this review and you haven’t bought the book yet, please just trust me and skip it.
Don't get me wrong, I like sex, but man is it freaking overkill in some of these books.
I see what the author was doing, but it seemed kind of out of place, especially considering the molester was just some human chic who we didn't even know had a predisposition to do this kind of thing.I figured out in this book (I know, I know, I'm slow sometimes) what we, as readers are supposed to be feel threatened by.
So I think that's what we're supposed to worry about - what will she trade this time to save those she doesn't really like but will risk (not life and limb!) but soul and sex for?
I had been complaining that I had given out two 9/10 scores recently to Anita Blake Books (Books 7 & 8) and worried that I'd end up giving the same score again and again and again.
Anita is what she is and I don't know about you, but I do read these books for the love triangle that includes Jean-Claude and Richard.
Part of me didn't want to miss anything, but that was more to do with the fact that I read eight books in the series now and felt I had a vested interest in it, not because it enticed me in.

ETA: I ended up moving this up to 4 stars desipte my criticism below.This book would have been 4 stars if not for the repeated cultural and geographic mistakes. It was definitely a horror and gore filled book, not for the light hearted -- includes child abuse and murder. Seeing Edward and getting to know more about him made this book for me. He is now a favorite.
When an old friend calls in a favor, Anita knows she can't refuse.
New Mexico, here she comes!Upon arrival, Anita is immediately thrust into a gruesome murder investigation.
Anyway, Anita's never seen anything like this and the unknown makes her fear come out, so she does what she does best - pisses everyone off.
Don't get me wrong, I missed my boys (*cough*Jason*cough*), but it was nice to see Anita as a fish out of water.
Working with new people and ones she didn't necessarily trust at that.
A nice little breather from that drama, but it also supplies a whole new world of drama.
Anita impressed me as very complex and obviously right on the verge of breaking hence her early iron willed control and unwillingness to let go of her own tightly locked down values, but at this point in the series she is already well on her way to metamorphosis into something altogether different from anything she imagined.
It was great reading following that.It is hard for me to decide where this book fits in the hierarchy of the series from best to worst because the ones preceding it were all defining volumes and as such represent a point at which you just knew things would run downhill.
His relationship with Anita in this book goes from professional rivals to friends and I liked that development.
It's like her relationship with Richard-she can have any number of lovers she wants but when Richard has other lovers, she gets pissed and whiny about it.
Yes the story is disturbing when Donna's kids get abducted but this was used to show more depth to Edward-his conflicted feelings of loving stepdad and hit man.
This was an enjoyable book and it was wonderful not to have the whole Anita love triangle getting in the way of the story.
Obsidian Butterfly Anita's 8th book has refreshingly little of Jean-Claude and Richard.Anita’s accomplice in previous books, Edward the Ultimate Mystery Man, is calling in a favor by asking her to come to New Mexico to support him.
Without the romantic duo of the previous books the dark nature of this book was the primary focus.(view spoiler)[Meeting Edward (now to be called Ted) at the airport was startling for Anita as she was introduced to his fiancée Donna and her two kids, Peter 14 and Becca 9.
But Anitas relationship with Edward does in fact evolve in this book and strengthen.
Edward goes as to so far to tell one of his colleages that she is his soulmate.
One of Edwards colleages(the one he made the soulmate speach to) is Olaf and he is a serial killer.
In the end he leaves her this note essentially saying they are soulmates and he wants to be by her side killing together and he is willing to give up killing small petite long dark haired women to Anitas choice in victim just to be by her side killing together.
It wore me out!If you haven’t read the Anita Blake books, then you definitely should.
So intense that I can’t read them straight through.
When I first started my Anita Blake kick I read about 6 or 7 of them in a row.
I read the 8th one last February, and now I just finished Obsidian Butterfly this month.This book was REALLY good.
I didn’t read it straight through, though.
I ended up finishing like 3 or 4 other books before I finished this one.There is a lot of stuff that goes down in this book.
This was also the goriest of all Anita Blake books.
At one point I put the book down and told my husband she went too far this time.
As the scene that went too far was coming up I was saying to myself there is no way Anita will let anything bad happen.
Anita was talking about women's body types.
As she got to my body type which is thin and short she described it as a "boy with breast".
I do not strive for this body type.
But I'm going to take a little Anita break before I jump on book 10.
i really enjoyed most of this book, there were a few erotica scene's with random people and blood that made me want to put the book down but the rest was alright.the monsters in this book were great, anita was even working with a few this time.i loved edward, he's a fantastic character and his new life is a nice surprise :) i cant wait for him to join anita in another book.Olaf was one of my fave characters, not because i like him but because he makes the book interesting and i know he'll be popping up in the future.
It was just as suspenseful as her others and in that respect I loved it, but I have serious issues with some of the scenes in this one.I don't think there is ever a need for graphic child rape in a story and I strongly disagree with the author's choice to include it in this one.
The child involved isn't a recurring character and the graphic description did not add any value to the story so overall there was no need for it.
If she was going for shock value then she got it.
have stoped bothering about the novel titles and just refer to them by number.Anyway, picked one up off a friends shelf and tried to read it.
It might work better if you start with #1 and work up but I doubt it.I love sex, I like engaging in it, reading about it or discussing it.
Rarely have I found an author who can make sex boring but this novel did it.
Not so, after a page or two of repetition I found my brain to be so bored it had slid away from the bed on the page to contemplate something more interesting - I think it was the laundry list.
