https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869980-i-ll-never-be-young-again
But it is in bohemian Paris that Richard finally meets the woman who enables him to fulfill his artistic promise.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پنجم ماه آگوست سال 1969 میلادیعنوان: جوانی از دست رفته؛ شاهکار: دافنه (دافنی) دو موریه؛ مترجم: محمدمهدی پورکریم؛ تهران، موسسه تیسفون، 1347، در 279 صدافنه دو موریه، با نگارش رمان ربه‌ کا در سال 1938 میلادی نام آور شدند.
نقل از متن کتاب جوانی از دست رفته: آفتاب غروب میکرد من تنها روی پلی برابر آب رودخانه قرار داشتم و به فکر فرو رفته بودم.
Possible spoilers...I was not to particularly fond of Du Maurier’s second book in print. It was a good second effort though. I think what rubbed me the wrong way about this story was, that the main character wasn’t very likeable no matter hard you tried.Du Maurier is one of my favourite writers, and I was glad to see that she needed a few books under her belt before developing the style that she is known for. And of course me being a completist, I’ll have to read everything that she had in print that I can find.
Adrift again but no longer suicidal, Dick leads a shiftless life in Paris drifting from job to job as he dreams of becoming a writer like his famous father, until one day he meets young music student Hesta and they settle into a relationship - although Dick still shrugs responsibility and puts off writing his "great book".
Dick eventually begins to mature through his relationship with Hesta, but the relationship becomes strained as Dick's influence in her life changes her from a sensible grounded student into a carefree partying drifter no longer interested in her music lessons.
Ah, the pleasure one gets from reading an authors first books! du Maurier's budding talent for the psychological plot and drama that made her so famous begins to unfold in "I'll Never Be Young Again." However, the psychology overrides the drama, but this book definitely gives us a hint of what is to come. If you are a du Maurier fan, this book is a must. If you are just looking for a good read, you may be disappointed.
Richard is not a likeable character.
He is extremely self-centred, thinking only of his wants and needs and expecting others to fit their moods to his.
He attaches himself to others and expects them to give him life.
She took up this thread again in 'My Cousin Rachel' (and perhaps in others I have yet to read) which also contains a young, male character in need of a good shake and a dose of reality!
A good book but not something I could love like I love 'Rebecca' or 'The Parasites'.
The second half is the story of Dick’s relationship with Hesta, a girl he meets in Paris.The whole book is written in the first person from Dick's perspective, which is significant as it was apparently the first time Daphne du Maurier wrote from a man's point of view – and I thought she captured the male voice perfectly.
There are also some vivid descriptions of the mountains and fjords of Norway and the other places that the characters visit, particularly Paris with its cafés and boulevards.This would probably not be the best Daphne du Maurier book for a newcomer to begin with, but it's a good choice for someone who wants to venture away from Rebecca and read one of her less popular novels.
"A torrent of sound like a song in our ears."I loved the descriptions of the mountains of Norway they rode through - Du Maurier can certainly write.
And that's about all I loved in I'll Never be Young Again.The story is more like two books.
In the first Dick is a whiny depressive.
I don't know how Jake put up with him - maybe spectacular Norway blocked out the whining.Then Part 2: Dick, no longer depressed, being a bastard to Hesta.
این کتاب بعد از ربه کا دومین اثری بود که از دافنه دو موریه خوندم و حقیقتا و به هیچ عنوان قابل قیاس با ربه کا نبود! داستانی به شدت معمولی و کسل کننده، فاقد قدرت ارائه ی هدف نویسنده از نگارش داستان و در مجموع و در بهترین حالت اثری درجه دو محسوب میشد. تنها نکته ی مثبت این اثر که البته گاهی هم با تاکید بیش از حد نویسنده بر جزئیات آزاردهنده میشد، قدرت بی نظیر نویسنده در توصیفات و ملموس کردن صحنه های داستان بود.
Even though there are no sinister characters and not one glimpse of Cornwall, I still loved this book. This is the most introspective du Maurier novel I have read yet. I loved it.
His mentor/gay lover from the first half of the book, Jake is presented as someone more self-actualized than Dick, but unfortunately we barely get two words out of poor Jake because Dick will never shut his yap long enough to take a breath.
His story is pawned off as a coming of age progression, but he seems developmentally stunted in every respect, so much so that I'm not able to detect the faintest wiff of growth during the arc of his supposed maturation from ignorant hobbledehoy to world-weary cynic.The dialogue between characters is so stiff it's hard to imagine them as human.
I almost didn't read I'll Never be Young Again.
I've read a lot of Daphne du Maurier's books this year, the most recent being a short story collection which I didn't like at all, then I made a start on 'Hungry Hill' but quickly gave it up.This is Daphne's second book and was not as well received as the first 'The Loving Spirit' but is so much more my kind of book.
Jake was gay, right?
Y'all read that the same as me?
The man he loved dearly on the ranch but turns against when he finds out he's a mad shagger of women, and has nothing but contempt for the humps he leaves behind, that's clearly a thinly veiled queer story, I'd bet my buttons on it.
I adore Daphne Du Maurier and she writes this beautifully but I couldn't stand the main character.
It was a coming-of-age story for a wee twerp I'd cheerfully have punted into the Clyde.
Couldn't bare him that much.
She's been my favorite author for 20 years, for some reason I just read this one now, and the rest of her books are wonderful.
Maybe because she was so young when she wrote it, or maybe because this was only her second book, but it lacks all the elements I love in her later work - suspense, twists, unlikeable yet interesting characters, a real sense of place.
The main character is just a jerk, the homoeroticism is overwhelming yet underexplored, and the plot is predictable.
This is the third book by du Maurier that I''ve read and the second out of these three that has a male protagonist.
Unlike Rebecca and My Cousin Rachel, this novel is much more focused on the inner feelings of the main character rather than mysteries.
The language of Dick is so man-like, with all the indecent thoughts at times, that I would never guessed the author is a woman if I had not known it before.
All in all, this was a great read; the pages ran faster than a wolf, and the ending was truly in the best traditions of Maurier - sudden and unpredictable.
4.9This woman is a master of the senses. A master at everything. The only reason this doesn't get a 5 is because I won't read it again.
I don’t normally have an issue with unlikeable characters, but Dick is insufferable. He may actually be worse than Holden Caulfield. The only thing that saves this is DuMaurier’s writing. 1.5
Reading a du Maurier after a few months is like coming back home. While I have to say this is not my favourite of hers, I did really appreciate her writing. The first half of the book was brilliant, but the second half lacked a little. I think it was mostly because I couldn't stand Richard.
Kārtējais atradums vecajā grāmatplauktā. Droši vien atkal māsa to tur nolikusi. Latviskajā variantā, ko lasīju, šī grāmata nosaukta pavisam citādi kā angliskajā - `Mums bija reiz viss`. Doma gan abos gadījumos viena - par jaunību, kas nenāks vairs. Interesanti un biedējoši vienlaikus..
Kārtējais atradums vecajā grāmatplauktā. Droši vien atkal māsa to tur nolikusi. Latviskajā variantā, ko lasīju, šī grāmata nosaukta pavisam citādi kā angliskajā - `Mums bija reiz viss`. Doma gan abos gadījumos viena - par jaunību, kas nenāks vairs. Interesanti un biedējoši vienlaikus..
It took me a while to get into this book, which is not true of any other du Maurier novel that I have read so far.
Contrary to many other books that deal with similar themes, the character's personal fulfilment (spoiler alert) is not to be found in artistic expression, in the love of a good woman, in sexual liberation, in 'dropping out', in defying his parents, in travel or in adventure in the wilderness.
Instead he only comes close to happiness right at the very end of the story, when he is in a mundane job and a routine life.
Having read many of Daphne’s other books I decided to embark on this one which I believe is one of her earlier offerings.
Dick takes Jake for granted even though he clearly does like him and enjoys his company.
Jake gives Dick a release from his humdrum life under the shadow of his father, a famous poet, and they travel a great deal going wherever they want and working their passage across the seas.
Dick then goes to Paris and meets Hesta but is still only thinking of himself and doesn’t believe that Hesta should have a voice at all and he puts her down time and again.
For those who last the book will give you thoughts about young man during his searching for self-meaning.
Conflict - I would rather named the book.
There is a small chance that it would attract more people to read it.
This book is nothing more, than easy reading but not that bad written and there are three or four places when you have that feeling to go deeper to your mind and think about things.
But I would reccomend you to read this book only in the case you are a fan of Daphne du Maurier, or you have nothing else to read.It won't hurt you.
I love reading Daphne's stories and everyone I have read so far I have loved, my first was Rebecca, which is loved by many but I must say "I'll Never Be Young Again" is my favorite, closely followed up by Frenchmen's Creek and Maryanne.
I actually am slowly working my way through all her books available on Kindle.
That being said this is another "coming to age" story of an immature young man trying to make his mark being as grand as his father.
I know a book is good when I am crying many times throughout.
**An amazing coming-of-age novel, considering that she wrote it when she was only 23.**Richard attempting suicide on the ship is saved by Jake and they become fond friends. Together they travel Europe but an unfortunate event sets them apart. Richard lives in Paris after that where he meets the two loves of his life - Hesta and Writing.Situations again turn unfavorable for Richard and soon he must decide the course of his life ahead.
This really is a book of two halves. I was fully expecting (view spoiler)[Jake to not actually be dead (hide spoiler)], which would have tied the two parts together much more neatly.The first half is a bit of a mess and it gets more into its own in the scenes in Paris. Dick is an awful protagonist but incredibly real -- we've all known blokes like that, have't we?(!)
1 of: I'll Never Be Young Again [Paperback:] By: Dame Daphne Du MaurierCondition: Used - AcceptableSold by: eastanglianbookshop £0.01my cover is not available on GR:Sorry Daph darling, this is just not for me as I don't have a blunt stanley knife to hand or R.E.M on my mp3
The moral of this story is: don't judge an author by her early works.
A great book by a great author - I can't believe she was so young when she wrote this and in the voice of a young male.
Sometimes a little bit flowery and sometimes a little over the top for modern times, but overall a great story of a young man and his quest for a life of his own, even if he was so self-centered you wanted to slap him a couple of times for good measure.
I particularly liked the travelogues, a glimpse into countryside, city and more.
I loved this and glad I finally took the time to read it.
Netreba súdiť podľa obálky... Bolo to úžasné. Pri čítaní vždy akosi podvedome prežívate život niekoho iného, no málokedy sa mi podarí do cudzieho sveta preniknúť tak veľmi, ako teraz. Čítala som to dlhšie akoby bolo treba, no chcela som si vychutnávať každé slovo, či vetu. V deji sa toho až tak veľa neudeje a zároveň udeje. Je to kniha o živote, poznaní, myšlienkach a charakteroch... Daphne du Maurier ma opäť dostala. Myšlienky, ktoré sa tu nachádzajú ma obrali o všetky slová. Kniha vyzerá aktuálne akoby na ňu zaútočili farebné papieriky, pretože som stále len značila. Odporúčam.
This was one of the hardest books I've forced myself to read. In the end, I skipped a huge chunk of itThe main problem I found (other than the style of writing - abit too flowery and over descriptive for what I'm used to) was that the protagonist, Richard (Dick) well, was a bit of a dick. He was a self absorbed idiot. I couldn't stand him. I was far more interested in Jake.I'll probably give another of her novels a try but this one was a pretty bad choice.
A young man, Richard, feeling his accomplished father's disapproval, is saved from suicide by a travelling ex-con. They begin a friendship & travel to other countries, working on ships. This journey is the first part of the novel. The 2nd part of the novel is Richard living in Paris, subsidized by his father,attempting to write but a romantic obsession gets in the way.
