https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132778.Vengeance_in_Death
Another fantastic installment to the Eve and Roarke Show. I love that we got to know more about Roarke, his past, and his part misdeeds in greater detail. I also love that we got to go home with him for a spell.
But if it comes down to a choice between the job and my marriage, then I lose the arm.” Gotta say, that line surprised me.This would be the first time that I've felt as if Eve and Roarke were on equal footing with regards to their affection for each other.
That's not to say that I ever doubted Eve's love for Roarke.
It was a great moment.Short synopsis: Like the previous books, there is a baddie that Eve needs to find before he kills more people.
Roarke and Eve:
Suspense 5 stars / Romance 3.75 starsDamn, it was intense! Bloody, creepy, barbarous – perfect reading matter before you fall asleep *mwahahaha* 😈But Eve fears nothing!😱Brilliant!😱Romance: I can’t believe it, but they killed an ex from Roarke… again. Really? Will they kill all hundreds/thousands women, who were unlucky enough to warm his bed?It’s getting old…In what book exactly will they hurt Summerset? Like physically and hard?Can’t wait to read it…
It is quite a few years since I first read this book and I had forgotten just how good it is!
Eve and Roarke are still at the very early stages of their relationship and they have a lot of issues to start working out.
I always love the way this author brings nearly all of her characters into every book even if they only get a brief mention.
Her skill in writing character development is amazing.So another In Death book that I really loved.
3.65⭐The mystery was a bit meh but the dynamics and dialogue between the characters made it a wholly entertaining read.
Inspector Eve Dallas was ready to clock off on time for a change when her life and that of Roarke’s changed dramatically.
With a killer out there determined to get to Roarke, and Dallas equally determined to stop him, hers was a race against the clock.
And a race against an evil madman with a heart filled with a want for revenge.Would Eve, Peabody and Roarke manage to stop the killer before he struck again?
Vengeance in Death by J.D. Robb is #6 in the In Death series and a re-read for me – brilliant as is the norm; gritty, intense and brutal but oh, so good!
I love Roarke and Eve. They just get better and better in every book. He is an expert with the latest technology...a madman with the mind of a genius and the heart of a killer. He quietly stalks his prey. Then he haunts the police with cryptic riddles about the crimes he is about to commit--always solved moments too late to save his victims' lives.  “I want you to take note, Commander, that turning in my badge would be like cutting off my arm. But if it comes down to a choice between the job and
I love Roarke and Eve. They just get better and better in every book.
In less than a year, he had broken through her defenses,unlocked her heart, and most surprising of all, had gained not only her love but her trust.And he could still annoy her.
"Darling Eve."
"Odd.""I liked it." The hands she held to his face slid around to link behind his neck.
"Well, Eve me darling, if you're after ..."His gaze flicked over her shoulder and the amusement in them deepened.
"Good morning Peabody." Eve jerked, then swore when Roarke held her firmly in place.
"Lovely day."
With each one I read I fall in love a little more with Roarke and Eve....separately and together.
Eve feels the personal hit and for the first time, the love of her career is challenged by the love she has for her husband.
And it doesn't stop at Roarke.
Summerset feels the heat too.
Something has to give, but at what price.I've said it before and I most likely will say it 40 more times.
I LOVE the way that Roarke loves Eve. His words, his touches, his smiles just melt my heart every single time.Another favorite of mine in this series.
Six books in and I'm still not quite sure why my book-boyfriend, Roarke, likes Eve. This woman is so completely rude and horrible to him 99% of the time, that I feel like maybe he's a masochist.  Brian's face broke out in a wide grin as he slapped Roarke on the back. "That's a woman, isn't it?""Delicate as a rose, my Eve. Fragile and quiet natured." He grinned himself when he heard her curse, loud and vicious. "A voice like a flute." I guess it's all about perspective..And, well, if he likes cur
Six books in and I'm still not quite sure why my book-boyfriend, Roarke, likes Eve. This woman is so completely rude and horrible to him 99% of the time, that I feel like maybe he's a masochist.
"That's a woman, isn't it?""Delicate as a rose, my Eve. Fragile and quiet natured." He grinned himself when he heard her curse, loud and vicious.
In this one, we have a creepy guy claiming that he is doing God's work by torturing and murdering people from Roarke's past.
"She doesn't like you, McNab.""I know." He flashed a grin.
The best one yet!!! Such an awesome book.<3
This series keeps getting better and better.
I am hooked with this series.
We have a murderer who calls himself the "the wrath of God".
I know to some Eve may come across as bitchy and cold because she doesn't really show her real emotions but man, she's one badass cop.
But if it comes down to a choice between the job and my marriage, then I lose the arm." We have moments with her and Roarke.
EveThat's entirely different."  Roarke"Because you have a penis?"  Eve.
LOLAnd loving Peabody with each installment.
The writing is solid and with characters you can't help but love.
I love Roarke & Eve so freaking much.
:) "If Times Square intimidates you," Roarke began, "perhaps you could practice the naked dancing at home.""Oh, bite me.""Darling, I'd love to, but you're on duty.""Get in the goddamn car." She jerked a thumb at Peabody, who was currently doing her best to pretend she was deaf and blind."Please, Eve, these public displays of affection must stop.
I have a reputation.""Keep it up, ace, and I'll give you a public display of affection that'll have you limping for a week.""Now I'm excited." Smiling, Roarke opened the front passenger door.
4 stars.🌟🌟🌟🌟6th book in this spellbinding and truly addictive series .I have been super-jonesing lately for another dose of Eve and Roarke💕, this book really hit the spot for me in that respect even if the mystery itself is possibly my least favorite so far (still a solid 4 star read). In this one we get to learn more about Roarke's childhood in Ireland and his close friendship with Summerset - all really good stuff. Borrowed this ebook from my library - and I am happy to be moving right on to the next one (Holiday in Death).
Eve has always valued the law more than anything else in her life so it's really interesting to see her in a position where she is uncovering more of the unsavoury side of Roarke's history and she has to decide whether she loves him enough to look past the things he did as a younger man.I always love learning more about Roarke's background, we've known for a long time that he crossed lines in the past and he will happily cross them again in the future if that's what it takes to protect the people he cares for.
I'm not very good at binging books one after the other or I could catch up faster but I think one a month is more realistic.
When it becomes clear that the victims have a link to Roarke and Summerset's past she knows she must hunt down the killer before he can kill again.This series is developing really well.
She finds the role of tough cop a lot easier to carry off than sensitive lover, but with Roarke's help she's learning to let her emotions and love for him show.
Eve's relationship with Summerset is just as prickly as ever but she finds out a lot more about him in this novel and starts to get an understanding of what's made him the way he is.
Another awesome InDeath re-read! One of my favorite exchanges happens in this book. It is the one where Brian from Ireland finds out that Roarke married a bloody cop...Eve replies that she married a criminal and no one ever thinks about that! Then there is the whole "icicles forming in Hell" comment from Brian...Priceless!!! Loved seeing how Eve and Roarke worked through some of their most perilous philosophical ground to become an even more complete unit. Their total acceptance of each other, despite differences, is amazing.<3
I think this book just topped my previous favourite, RAPTURE IN DEATH.
It hits a little closer to home because of the violation that these victims have endured and it all seems to lead to Roarke’s past.As you know, Roarke hasn’t always been the polished and powerful businessman he is now.
It was his acts in Dublin years ago that seem to anger someone enough to push them into a killing spree.This book is much more gritty and bloody than the previous books and I loved every moment of it.
It is definitely in the top 10 of the In Death series and probably one of the meatiest of the stories.
A lot of scenes with him just show him as a sort of elite superman, I like it better when I see inside him.*****************************************************************************Hadn't read this one in some time - definitely the first time I listened to the audiobook version.
These are definitely much better.
The more I read these books and the descriptions of life in 2050-2060 New York City - the more I think that some of the social and legal policies make a lot of sense.
This time it caught up to Roarke in a gruesomest way possible, leaving him no other choice but to face it once again.I know, the weirdest things get me excited, but can you blame me?
It's Roarke getting back to his roots, to Dublin, to his past.
The killer is doing away with people from Roarke's past and zeroing in on him with every step, but Eve would never let anything happen to the man she came to love fiercely.
That's the thing that I liked to see, because Eve is "by the book" cop, she rarely toes the line, but all bets are off when it comes to the person you love, I guess.
Ah çok iyiydi. Cinayetleri çok güzel bağlamış, Roarke ve Summerset'in geçmişlerine iyice iniyoruz. Hatta İrlanda'ya gidip Roarke'un anılarını dinliyoruz. Eve yine birkaç kere ölümden dönüyor ve en sonunda gelip onu kurtaran ve katili öldüren Roarke oluyor. Bu adamın Eve aşkına özeniyorum cidden, Eve de ona deli gibi aşık. Bu çifti daha bir sürü macera bekliyor ama aralarındaki aşkla her şeyi halledeceklerdir. Yaklaşık bir 30 kitap daha var okunacak :P
A blast from the past! I enjoyed this one a lot. The relationship between Eve and Roarke gets tested in so many ways on a regular basis, yet they always come through. I did feel for Summerset in this one. Cannot have been easy to be forced to remember such unpleasant events and then everything else as well. Wonder how he and Eve are going to interact after the events of this book? Such a shame that Eve doesn't have a piece of junk anymore to park where it annoys him the most haha.
Vengeance in Death4 StarsEve Dallas’s loyalties are one again put to the test when her husband’s oldest friend and closest confidant, Summerset, is framed for a series of murders targeting acquaintances from his shared past with Roarke.
These, however, are put to the test as Summerset must reconcile his contempt for the police and the realization that his hopes for Roarke’s future will never materialize with the fact that Eve is in their lives to stay.The investigation is one of the more gruesome in the series this far as the killer is not averse to torturing his victims in horrendous ways.
Extremely bloody mutilated bodies are found and Summerset is tied to more than one murder.Hating the snobbish, uptight asswad, Eve still finds herself using every resource to prove that he should not be her prime suspect.
If only the dude would follow her advice and stay close to home.Avenging the rape, mutilation, beating and death of Summerset daughter, Roarke is forced to make a list of those who provided him information on her torturers.
The one eye he left stared in blind horror at the mirrored reflection of his own mutilated form.
★★★★★ J.D. Robb (AKA Nora Roberts) should get some kind of award for creating a  married  couple whose relationship remains H.O.T. Yup. Roarke and Eve still have it. Loved the suspense in this futuristic police procedural, too. I’ve said it before, but Susan Ericksen was born to narrate this series; she outdoes herself again and just keeps getting better.In Vengeance in Death, the sixth in the In Death series, we get to see into Roarke’s past. And the Irish billionaire has one, filled with painf
couple whose relationship remains H.O.T. Yup. Roarke and Eve still have it.
Loved the suspense in this futuristic police procedural, too.
For those of you looking for books that take place in Ireland, Eve and Roarke zip over there in an effort to solve this interesting murder mystery.
JDR paints a fascinating picture of a futuristic Emerald Isle and downtown Dublin, with interesting characters.This one also introduces pretty-boy, Ian McNab, who has a flare (or at least love) for fashion and colorful clothes.
He arrives to help trace the location on jammed communications NYPSD Lieutenant Eve Dallas is getting.
So I've only read six so far and there may be another In Death book that I'll enjoy better than this one but so far...this book was everything I look for in a romantic suspense.The dialog is snappy and the story zips through like one of those futuristic cars.
Only someone like Eve could tolerate her husband's loyalty and devotion to such a person.
Every other romance heroine, especially the erotic romance ones, wouldn't have the personality to live with a man like Roarke.I can't wait to read the next one, which I think, is Holiday in Death.
I like that we got to know more about Roarke's past in this one. Still a 5-star series.
Finally! A villain I couldn't figure out till the end. Very well done.
Loved this 6th book in J.D. Robb's In Death series!!
I loved getting to delve into Roarke's past and I won't deny that I loved seeing Summerset on the hot seat.
That man is not a favorite of mine.This entry had an emotional intensity to it that I enjoyed.
I liked that the author brought up a past storyline and deepened it for the reader.
It was quite an eye opener for Eve and the reader to learn Roarke's connection to the crimes and to imagine his past actions in detail.
:)The only thing that frustrated me about this book was the way Roarke got away with keeping Eve in the dark for so long.
As a Christian, I do get a little weary of the crazy, homicidal Christian gimmick (that's not a spoiler, BTW), but this had a lot of suspense and I actually was kind of surprised by the outcome of the case.Eve got on my nerves this time.
I would have liked a little more Roarke POV, too.
For such a Roarke-centric plot, it seemed we saw practically the whole thing through Eve's eyes.
There's temptation to just jump into the next book in the series, but I've got others calling my name and the next In Death will just have to wait its turn.
