https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9033685-il-cantico-dei-cantici
Song of Solomon, Joseph-Charles Mardrus (Bible #22), Anonymous تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز ششم ماه فوریه سال 1996 میلادیعنوان: غزل غزلهای سلیمان؛ ترجمه از متن سامی به انگلیسی: ژوزف شارلز ماردروس؛ مترجم: احمد شاملو؛ ماریت لی دیس؛ تهران، طهوری، 1347؛ بدون شماره گذاری صفحه، در 33 ص؛ مصور، موضوع: شعر ترجمه شده به فارسی؛ سده 20 مسرود دوممن گل ِ سرخ ِ شارون نرگس ِ خندان و سوسن ِ دره امچون سوسن ِ دره در میان ِ خاربُناندلارام ِ من در صف ِ باکره گان هم از آنگونه استچون درخت ِ سیبى میان ِ درختان ِ جنگلى؛دلدار

اما مريم در خارج قبر ايستاده بود و گريه میکرد.
همان طور كه اشک میريخت خم شد و به داخل قبر نگاه كرد و دو فرشته سفيد پوش را ديد كه در جايی که بدن عيسی را گذاشته بود، ایستاده بودند.
آنها به او گفتند "ای زن، چرا گريه میکنی؟" پاسخ داد: "خداوند مرا بردهاند و نمیدانم او را كجا گذاشتهاند." وقتي اين را گفت به عقب برگشت و عيسی را ديد كه در آنجا ايستاده است ولي او را نشناخت.
عيسی به او گفت: "ای زن، چرا گريه میکنی؟ به دنبال چه کسی میگردی؟" مريم به گمان اينكه او باغبان است گفت: "ای آقا، اگر تو او را بردهای ب
یوحنا 12: 32 چند نمونه تفسیر تمثیلی / استعاره‌ایباب 1 آیه 2محبوبه خطاب به محبوب: او مرا به بوسه های دهان خود ببوسد زيرا كه محبت تو از شراب نيكوتر استLet him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth: for thy love is better than wineدر این آیه ضمیر بطور ناگهانی از "او" به "تو" تغییر کرده است.
In 1925, the sculptor, typeface designer and erotomaniac Eric Gill illustrated an edition of the Song of Songs for the Golden Cockerel Press, a now-legendary artisanal printing house founded in the village of Waltham St Lawrence just after the First World War. The subject matter was a good fit for Gill's interests: it must be one of the strangest books in the Bible, with no mention of God, no apparent interest in law, and a deeply poetic focus on sexual desire. To edit the text, the Press employ
In 1925, the sculptor, typeface designer and erotomaniac Eric Gill illustrated an edition of the Song of Songs for the Golden Cockerel Press, a now-legendary artisanal printing house founded in the village of Waltham St Lawrence just after the First World War. The subject matter was a good fit for Gill's interests: it must be one of the strangest books in the Bible, with no mention of God, no apparent interest in law, and a deeply poetic focus on sexual desire.
Ceronetti osserva il testo nel suo risuonare, conquista parola per parola ogni piano del reale che rivela e avverte.
Nella critica di Carlo Ossola possiamo leggere che il Cantico è un testo che svuota; Dio non può cercare se stesso, l'amore non può insegnare nulla sull'eros.
L'uso di questo testo, che contamina le mani ma non guarisce le ossa, non sembra attuale in tempo di peste.
Se non si ha paura del vuoto come di una tomba che aspetta, spiare nelle stanze vuote del Cantico quello che lì non avviene è un esercizio che forse isola dal contagio.
تمامی تو زیباست ای دلارام ترا، در سراپای تو، نشانی از نقص نیستبا من از لبنان بیا، ای نوعروس من، با من از لبنان بیا.از بلندیهای امانه، از قلههای شنیر و از فراز حرمون در من نظر کن.ای جمیلهی من؛ از بلندیها که کنام شیران و دخمهی پلنگان است در من نظر کن.با من از لبنان بیا، ای خواهر من، نوعروس من!ای که، هم به نگاهی از نگاههای چشمانت جان مرا شیفته کردیای که، هم به حلقهای از حلقههای گردنآویز خویش، دل مرا در بند نهادی.
تمامی تو زیباست ای دلارام ترا، در سراپای تو، نشانی از نقص نیستبا من از لبنان بیا، ای نوعروس من، با من از لبنان بیا.از بلندی‌های امانه، از قله‌های شنیر و از فراز حرمون در من نظر کن.ای جمیله‌ی من؛ از بلندی‌ها که کنام شیران و دخمه‌ی پلنگان است در من نظر کن.با من از لبنان بیا، ای خواهر من، نوعروس من!ای که، هم به نگاهی از نگاه‌های چشمانت جان مرا شیفته کردیای که، هم به حلقه‌ای از حلقه‌های گردن‌آویز خویش، دل مرا در بند نهادی.
- محبوبه ی من ميان دختران، چون سوسنی است میان خارزار.- محبوب من ميان پسران، چون درخت سیبی است میان درختان بی بار جنگل.*ای کاش تو برادر من بودیآن گاه هر جا تو را می دیدم می توانستم بی ترس رسوایی تو را ببوسم.*تو را چون سرزمین ترصه دوست می دارم.تو را چون سرزمین اورشلیم دوست می دارم.
برای قرن 21م یه مقدار زیادی رمانتیک و کلیشه ای بود ، اما قطعا" این غزلیات کوتاه و زیبا در زمان خودشون خوش درخشیده اند
ama nasıl olsa durmadan okuyacağım içün, möhkem değil.
kim yazdıysa bunu ellerinden öperim.
bence, romantik deyişler adına bildiğimiz pek çok şey buradan çıkma ve evrilerek bize gelmiş olabilir iddiasına girerim.şu var, nottaki gibi ya da internette hakkında okuduğunda, kitabın konusunun ve kim tarafından kime ne için yazıldığı hakkında zilyon rivayet var.
soruyorum, ne fark eder?
ne fark eder?
(şimdi böyle dedim diye gömçücekler olabilir, benim inandığım dinde bu sapkınlık, buna kabulüm var, ama bi sapkınlık için sapkınlık vardır, keyfi olan, bir de ruhunun derinliklerinden gelen bir his olmasına rağmen yine de sapkınlıktır.
koşulda olanlar benim için evet, sapkınlık olmasına rağmen sorun addetmiyor.
Place me like a seal over your heart, like a seal on your arm;for love is as strong as death, its jealousy unyielding as the grave.It burns like blazing fire, like a mighty flame.Many waters cannot quench love; rivers cannot sweep it away.If one were to give all the wealth of one’s house for love, it would be utterly scorned.
I certainly can't claim to understand what all of it's saying; but for the most part, I see it depicts the beautiful, sacred, mysterious love and union between a husband and wife.Hmm, I suppose there was a reason this book was put in the Bible.
Perhaps to show us that this pure and beautiful union, fellow single peoples, is totally something worth waiting for and guarding your heart and body for!
when I found the one my heart loves." Song of Solomon 3:4"Sixty queens there may be, and eighty concubines, and virgins beyond number; but my dove, my perfect one, is unique," Song of Solomon 6:8-9
En sevdiğim çeviri şiir kitaplarından biri oldu!
یادگارِ آن دوران است که عهد عتیق هم مثلِ مثنوی معنوی و شاهنامهی فردوسی مونس و همدمِ شاهرخ مسکوب بود.ترجمهی مسکوب را باید در کنار ترجمهی شاملو خواند.
یادگارِ آن دوران است که عهد عتیق هم مثلِ مثنوی معنوی و شاهنامه‌ی فردوسی مونس و همدمِ شاهرخ مسکوب بود.ترجمه‌ی مسکوب را باید در کنار ترجمه‌ی شاملو خواند.
Song of Songs (also known as Song of Solomon) is made up of lyrical poems between a woman and her lover, who I'm assuming is Solomon. Some of the words did make me giggle:Your hair is like a flock of goats descending from Gilead.Your teeth are like a flock of sheep coming up from the washing.Each has its twin, not one of them is alone.Your temples behind your veil are like the halves of a pomegranate.I have a somewhat interesting vision of what this woman looks like now.
WrensReads Review:Sidenote: The reason for such vague and short and "eh" words on each of these books, is because I wasn't challenging the study of the Bible when I read these.
I was challenging myself to read the whole Bible in a year because I knew it would be discipline to keep at it daily.
Those will be longer reads and more notes.So here is my review from my "Read the Bible in a Year" challenge.
Nothing in-depth.So here is my review of Song of Solomon.This is where a lot of the detailed sex comes in.
It's a beautiful book.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
Wonderful book that could do with some different packaging, but that's okay.Precisely up my alley.
I pored over this book and devoured it.
I'm a little sad it has to go back to the library, although if I ever get a copy to keep then at least I can choose the cover.
Three cheers to the Blochs; I laughed at how many times in the commentary it was just like '....uh, free translation on this verse.......'Also, whoever read it before me at the library left a scan of a bilingual Bible version, which was cool.
I'm guessing they were comparing translations.
Cantar de los cantares, es conocido como el libro más romántico de la Biblia, y en realidad hasta su título es un tanto romántico. Disfrute mucho leer este libro durante la época en la cual celebramos el día del amor aunque en realidad, Dios es amor, y esto es algo que debemos celebrar en cada momento de la vida. Dios mediante quiero volver a leer a este libro pero haciendo un estudio más profundo acerca de los distintos significados que tienen los mensajes que aqui se encuentran.
I thought I understood this book when I was 14. Rereading it now, I find mystery after mystery...which only adds to the poignancy of the Song, and brings the thought that Love was God's story long before it was man's, and though I may wish to understand it, it is far deeper than time-bound human experience can ever measure.That last chapter ... is it the chapter of happily-ever-after or is it a triumphant death scene?All I know is that I know nothing.
The bible as poetryThe Song of Songs (my preferred title) is magnificent literature. It certainty deals with erotic love. Many have claimed that the text alludes allegorically to Divine Love: I doubt this, but believe that human love always speaks however faintly of love which is transcendent. There is a good introduction by A S Byatt.
Excellently formatted, beautifully translated, with wonderful forwards and afterwards going into detail on both the translation and the original text. Seeing the Song of Songs lifted from millennia of dogmatic (and boring) interpretation and re-interpretation makes me a very happy person.
I've read "The Song of Solomon" before, but it is one of those works of art and faith that gains power and passion each time you read it. Byatt's introduction is a wonderful fit.
Esta obra, publicada en 1561, fue una traducción desde el hebreo a lengua vulgar, del Cantar de los Cantares (libro Sapiencial de la Biblia) que contiene una explicación verso por verso acorde al significado teológico, lírico e histórico de cada uno de sus versículos.
Su autor, el clérigo agustino y poeta Luis de León fue una de las máximas figuras de la lírica española del Siglo de Oro. Su obra en prosa incluye este texto, por el cual fue puesto en custodia y encarcelado de 1571 a 1576 por la Inquisición, debido a que se consideraba un acto de herejía, el poner al alcance del hombre común, el contenido de este Libro de la Biblia, que ha sido calificado de prohibido y enigmático.Nada más lejos de la realidad.
Pero es madera de otro ataúd.En cuanto a la composición de los comentarios de Ceronetti, el primero "Las rosas del Cantar", plantea el libro como una agresión a los Sagrado en la defensa del mismo, representada en el pudor de lo humano, donde la vergüenza se equipara al desnudo; una vergüenza que, oculta bajo el velo de la metáfora, se convierte en una sacra representación del Eros.
Los comentarios de Ceronetti se transforman en un Uróboros con la idea del vacío en el Cantar, y en la idea de que todo lo sagrado quema las manos.
It has been understood as a metaphor for the divine longing for the church and for the individual soul, in contradiction to its embodied language.
I wish we would consider this book less metaphorically, and more in all its incarnational sense, to consider what it means to have a body and to be loved and to love.Yet this is not the only difficulty with the text.
SONG OF SOLOMON CHAPTER 1:The song of songs, which is Solomon's.2 Let him kiss me with the kisses of
She says, “I am dark, daughters of Jerusalem,and I am beautiful!Dark as the tents of Kedar, lavishas Solomon’s tapestries.”He says, “And you, my beloved,how beautiful you are!Your eyes are doves.” The poem is ardent, discretely erotic; he says, or most likely sings, “Your breasts are two fawns,twins of a gazelle,grazing in a field of lilies.” She is equally frank in her desire,“Awake, north wind!
Even if they may get things wrong (the beloved or the brothers may not be speaking these particular lines, e.g.), at least the result is comprehensible and quite beautiful.
I actually feel like I basically understand the Song of Songs.The translators see the poems as a back and forth expression of sexual love between the Shulamite and a shepherd.
The Blochs see Solomon's presence in the poems as roll play between the lover and the beloved.
There is an introduction and an epilogue, Hebrew script on the page opposite to the English, and a lengthy verse-by-verse commentary that is mostly comprehensible, though a little on the learned side.
Set me as a signet upon thy heart, as a signet upon thy arm!For strong as death is love, hard as Sheol is passion.
With stunning imagery and resourceful, vibrant language, it offers a unique celebration of passion and sexual love between two lovers.
Another point I received from this book is the importance of romantic love to God. While often Christians focus on the love of God for the church or the more caring for and less changing agape love this book shows Eros love also comes from God. The lover and the beloved have a love that is not merely the admiration of the medieval court romance or the platonic love that Jerome encouraged, it is a love based on actions and physical attraction.
E' impossibile resistere all'Amore nel momento in cui si fa una simile materia, così concreta e così viva.
Non solo: l'uso costante di richiami ad animali, fiori e cibi crea un intero universo amorevole e erotico.
Il Cantico dei Cantici non narra soltanto dell'amore fra l'Amato e l'Amata (sia inteso nelle mille accezioni metaforiche e diverse, di cui sinceramente me ne frego), ma dell'Amore, fisico e tangibile, che avvolge l'intero cosmo.
"Perché l'Amore è duro / come la morte / Il desiderio è spietato / come il sepolcro / Carboni roventi sono i suoi fuochi / una scheggia di Dio infuocata"
I found this work of immense interest and importance.The compilation of historical accounts, wisdom 
