https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77262.Animal_Dreams
In a letter to Codi, Hallie writes, "'What keeps you going isn't some fine destination but just the road you're on, and the fact that you know how to drive.'" This is not a love story as the back of the book may have you believe.
Sure, people fall in and out of love within its pages, but this book is really about understanding oneself amid a lifetime of memories and secrets...the risks we take not only when we cheat ourselves, but when we find ourselves, too.
While I have liked a lot of Kingsolver's other work, this particular book is centered around the sort of seriously damaged character that usually turns me off to a book.
And had I read this in high school, or college, or maybe even grad school, I'm fairly certain I would have disliked it tremendously.And yet...
having read it when I did, I was able to identify with some elements of the what the character was experiencing, even if I didn't approve of her methods with dealing with those issues.
Overall, I'm glad I read the book.
And every character is filled with so much wisdom and humor that I feel like I was given a sneak peak into Kingsolver's personality.
Even when her characters are making their mistakes, they are learning and changing.
It's as if Kingsolver is teaching a lesson she learned at the same moment she wrote it.She also has this way of juxtaposing the fiction with real life events.
In Animal Dreams, Hallie, a daughter of a tiny canyon village in Arizona keeps her sister, Codi, connected to the war in Nicaragua.
Hallie spreads truth and hope with her letters...two subjects that aren't too prominent in Codi's life.

This was an uncharacteristically fast read for me.
I read like I eat - slowly and often distracted.
I've been sobbing (not crying, SOBBING) through the last half of the book.
I felt sad that the book was over and I wouldn't know what happened afterward to all of these sweet characters.
I can't remember the last time I felt like that about a novel.I want to read another one of her books right away, but I feel like I should space them out so I can savor them.
I adored Poisonwood Bible.
And I adore this one just as much.
My memory, like Codi's, is for shit.
Codi's memory has a terrible price when she finally gets hold of it.
It's probably silly to say that the moral of a story is that sometimes life chooses you, since fictional characters are by nature figments of imagination, and get to enjoy the plotting out and tidying up that their authors are wont to do for them.
Isn't that why we read novels -- in the hopes that someone else's imagined life will provide the answers for our own questions?
We take books like medicine.
This is my favorite Kingsolver novel, and I've re-read it several times, not because it's the best "literature" but because I loved several the characters and some of the imagery... I even named my cat after the main character's sister. Sort of. Anyway, it's readable in a day or two; it's a little preachy and the plot is contrived, but of great sentimental value to me. And the scene of Cody's aging father developing black and white photographs meant to resemble completely unrelated objects really affected me.
This is the 7th book I've read by this author.
She falls between 3 and 4 stars for me, but this book was a solid 4 stars for me.
I think it's my favorite one so far.
I loved the writing more than the actual story.
She is great at linking the past with the present.
She is also quite expressive with her ideas and with her the descriptive strokes.
Some of this was beautifully written and some of it was humorous.
The story line was a little too perfect with a lot of convenient coincidences, but I enjoyed the messages.
Now having read the book I feel like there was some sort of "Never Ending Story" type connection between her and the protagonist.
What can I say..it takes one to know one.Anyway.Having read several of Kingsolver's other books I was looking forward to hearing her voice again.
I couldn't say it any better than another Good Reads reviewer who says she, "has this infectious, cultural curiosity that drives her to learn anything and everything about a place and its people...even if they only exist in her mind.
I always come out knowing a place, wanting to walk it's streets or interact with the people she creates.
She in tangentially involved but stand on the sidelines.Cody's childhood is most dramatically effected by her relationship with her sister and her loss of her first child due to miscarriage.
My feeling of disappointment was fueled by the impression that Kingsolver was telling us the wrong story,Codi's story rather than her sister's story.
I was impressed with the feeling of interiority that Kingsolver created, we experienced Codi's rekindling relationship and felt the interplay of love and doubt as the relationship deepened.
It could have been far better had Kingsolver done a better job as an author in handling the fascinating themes she created.
It's been nearly thirty years since I've read this, and it's amazing which details linger.Their old shoes were in the attic, arranged neatly by size in a row. As if they'd ever need them again.
I've checked it out of three different libraries now at least five times, but somehow have always been too distracted to get into it.
I have paid enough library fines because of this to have paid for my used copy several times, I'm sure.
I think Barbara Kingsolver has taught me more about love and hope than anything else has (I'm not sure what that says about my relationships..); she was just what I needed right now.[sidenote!: as I was finishing this book, my cat Simon was curled up asleep next to me and was clearly having some incredible dreams -- he started chattering and twitching his ears and whiskers like crazy!
You know, how Codi realizes that Hallie was actually doing this whole Nicaragua thing for herself, too, to give herself a point in life?
I was like, "Please, I don't want to hate Hallie but I kind of do just because of your biased memories of her."Speaking of memories, I was a little skeptical that Codi could block out all memories from before she was fifteen and not even realize it until she returned to Grace and people were bringing them to her attention - and she still didn't remember.
i’d forgotten that about hallie, even though i’d read the entire book once before, so long ago.
i kept thinking, this is the kind of book you don’t just sit down to read or even to write.
it felt like i’d been reading this book, so slowly, living through it, in it, in the hopes that it would end in something that would move through me like what codi calls 'an earthquake of the soul’.
for the first time in a long time, i began something and it was exactly what i needed - albeit was completely unprepared for.(i can't objectively review this beyond the fact that it's driving me nuts that google has this book listed under 'romance novel'...
I thought the narration (first person, mid-thirties female who teaches high school biology in her tiny southwestern hometown) was so trite and annoying!
I think Barbara Kingsolver is a talented writer, so I'm not sure what happened here.
Much of the story was about Codi, the narrator, coming to terms with coming to the home that she felt always treated her like an outsider because she was tall and smart--this is what I gathered from the two qualities of herself on which she was fixated throughout the story-- but nowhere in the story is it indicated that she was treated as such.
Eesh, even as I write this, I feel like I'm summarizing a Sweet Valley High book!
Come on, Barbara.
Animal Dreams has everything in it that I love about Kingsolver's writing -- her vision-filled writing style, and sense of place.
I loved immersing myself in the Latino-spiced culture, and the Native American wisdom of the nearby pueblo people enriches the mix.
She is everything I dislike in female leads -- bitchy, angst-ridden, a person whose biggest trouble for the majority of her life has been satisfying her vague inner yearnings.
I have trouble empathizing with people who have great choices available to make in life but who refuse to seize their opportunities because they are too bitchy and moody to decide.
This is the Kalamazoo Public Library's Reading Together 2008 book, and I would highly recommend it. It deals with family issues, Alzheimer's, environmental issues, political issues (specifically Nicaragua in the 1980's), and Native American issues, yet it is not an "issue book." It is a captivating story of a 30-something woman who returns to her small hometown and struggles with opening herself up to life. That may make it sound sappy, but it's not, because Cosima, our protagonist and narrator, is anything but sappy.
Barbara Kingsolver has a gift that allows the reader to identify with the land that she is writing about.
This story is as much about the main character, Cosima Noline, as it is about her hometown Gracela Canyon, where she grew up and moves back to as a thirty-something.
As with Kingsolver's Poisonwood Bible, this story has the characters reflect on their place in the world as individuals as well as in their family, community and workplace.
The writing is moving and beautiful.
And although I read this is just a couple of days, the story will most likely stay with me for a while.
This book wrecked me.When I first read the 30% of the book I had absolutely no feelings for the main character, even though it was written in first person.I just read it because I loved the way Kingsolver took time to creat and portray her environment, as well as setting.
The last 30% of the book was massively different from the first one.
And I think that's when my perspective on this novel changed.It's a brilliant piece of work, that needs to be read slowly and cherished fully - to finally grasp what wonderful emotions and histories, the author has woven into the pages.
Like this story. Could have done without stereotypical white woman falls in love with super hot native guy because he shows her the meaning of life with his native knowledge or something. I too would like to go back to my hometown at 35 and have a super hot native guy waiting there to fall in love with me and put up with all my whining about how no one understands my pain. Other than that I enjoyed the story.
This book is really about understanding oneself amid a lifetime of memories and secrets...the risks we take not only when we cheat ourselves, but when we find ourselves, too.
It covers a lot of territory and while this may look like a laundry list of boring topics, it’s not, and many of these are slightly touched upon while others are delved into and are part of what makes up Codi, our narrator and main character: corporate interference and environmental impact, cock fighting, family issues, the atrocities funded by the U.S. government in Nicaragua, teenage pregnancy, Alzheimer's disease, the nature of love and friendship, barriers to happiness, memories, and finding meaning in life.
Entertaining read. I just wish they environmental justice aspect was explored more-i felt like it was a cheap plot device and could have been delved into more. The connection between dreams and Alzheimer’s disease was interesting.
While I intellectually understand that The Poisonwood Bible is Kingolver's Magnum Opus, this is the one I brought when I had the opportunity to have her inscribe one of my books (swoon!)This is such a beautiful story of reframing your story in adulthood, love, parenthood, and who we are.
I had forgotten how much the environment was involved and had forgotten how much of the politics of Nicaragua got into the story, but they were both relevant and well done.
There are so many brilliant lines that I found that I had underlined throughout.
It definitely remains in my top ten.
At the end of it all, however, I cant help but wonder if I could do what she did - jump on that train, despite or because of everything that transpired through the text.
I didn't want to believe it.
I kept expecting her to come back, to just show up in Grace.This will be one of those texts I will keep going back to whenever things get too difficult for me.
But I'm definitely going to do a re-read of it in September, when I go back to India.
This is the book that feels like it was written about my life.
This is a book that I didn't want to share for a long time because it was so good and felt like a peek into my own soul and I was afraid that when others read it, they'd realize that.
This is the book that Barbara Kingsolver herself came perilously close to throwing away, in an elliptically long moment of self-doubt.
Reading this book is like finding your soul mate - you didn't feel incomplete before, but after you find it, you don't know how you could've been complete before.
An all-around good book.
A little heartbreak, a little hope, a little humor, and none of it overdone.
Easy to read, but by no means brain candy.
There are some very valuable observations woven into the story, nicely understated.
Codi's little journey reminds us that the way we remember things may have nothing to do with actual events, and that little things we do for others and for the earth can be important for both the doer and the "doee." ;)The main character is a tall female like me, and I loved some of her comments about how men behave around tall women.
Funny!
Barbara Kingsolver is an institution and she does not disappoint with this novel. Her creation of a place and research are impressive.
I loved it!
Codi, the main character lost her mom when she was 3, her baby when she was 15, and was in the process of losing her sister to the contras in nicaragua and her father to old age and alzheimers.
In addition, she never really felt connected to the town of Grace, AZ where she grew up nor her father who was the town physician but rather cold towards his daughters.
Kingsolver's plot revolves around Codi discovering her roots and becoming grounded.
It's a beautiful story with a lovely ending.
I think you learn more about each character this way, and about how different minds don't exactly think alike.
I also think this shows that even though you think something's right, that doesn't necessarily mean it is.Codi doesn't remember much from her childhood and returns to the town where she grew up to try and recapture that part of her life.
And that opens my mind to the fact that people aren't always going to think like me, or have the same problems as I have.The way they relate dreams to how full you live your life is actually kind of inspiring.
You can feel the passion, the heavy sadness; you can see the world in which this story lives.
She wrote so beautifully of Native American life, modern city life, loss in many ways (loss of body, mind, feeling, family) but also of gaining all those things back in a true-to-life format.
It is the story of loss, of re-discovering a place she thought was lost to her, family secrets coming to light..The story is also told through the eyes of Cosima's ailing father, Homero.
"You don't ask questions of an attic"2.) "[...] There was a roaring in my ears and I lost track of what they were saying.
