https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/270730.Crank
Life was goodbefore Imet the monster. After, life was great, At least for a little while. Like a seed planted in your body, Crank is an unforgettable read that sweeps you up into a whirlwind of drugs, sex, and the choices and mistakes you must make when growing up. After I finished this novel, a little invisible demon grew at my side and will forever travel at my shoulder-whispering this story and its consequences into my shuddering ears. Read this book, you will never do meth and will always remember what Kristina/Bree went through.
My daughter brought Crank home from the school library and also read it in a day; it's positively riveting.
Ellen Hopkins first novel is based on her own tragic experience as a mother of a crank (meth) addict.
So although Crank is technically a novel it's more correctly a fictionalized autobiography written from the perspective of the young teen, Kristina/Bree.
After her introduction to crank, or 'the monster' as she refers to it throughout the book, she discovers this wild, seductive, bad girl inside her named Bree.
WARNING: The language in this book is as crude as would be expected given the pseudo-life drug addicts slip into.
A young girl, fighting with her own demons, visits her long lost father one fateful summer and her life collides with the monster.
I lost him to the monster.There is a man still living who looks a little bit like the man I loved.
And though my friend's road to recovery will be long and hard, together, we fought the monster and won this particular battle.And though I am beyond thankful and grateful that in this particular case, I did not lose another person to this horrible drug, so many people are not that lucky.
This is the story of Kristina and the downward spiral her life takes once she decides to dance with “the monster.”First things first .
Unfortunately (to me at least) it read like an old “scared straight” type of story (kind of like a Reefer Madness, if you will) .
I realize I’m an old adult and this book is geared for young adults, so this problem could easily be mine alone, but I just couldn’t ever get on board with feeling any kind of sympathy for Kristina or her family.

It made me feel like I was reliving seeing my friend fall apart, right before my very eyes.
It was smart on Hopkins part to write it that way.It's also heartbreaking to hear that this happened to Hopkins own daughter.
That just made me realize how bad getting addicted to drugs is, and how my experience with watching my friend fall victim is only one case out of thousands.
It's unique." But never did I think I would connect so much - as though I was living through my friends eyes, seeing why it was all so addicting.
Some of these issues, I think, are because of the form's limits (it's hard to develop secondary characters at all when you're writing first person poetry), but others are just limitations of the story itself.
I think that there was a lot going on with Kristina that wasn't caused by the drugs -- sure, meth amplified those things, but there were other issues at the root of her bad choices and I thought the author really glossed over them (maybe because she wanted to be able to lay all these problems at the feet of the "monster" rather than take some responsibility herself?
I am in love with this book.
Kristina sinks into a world of drugs..
I would like to take a hot iron poker to the one that hurts her....
When Kristina goes into her world of drugs she calls herself Bree...
Did it all start because she goes to see her father?
There she meets a boy that turns her on to coke and they say they are in love..
a step-dad who seems nice.Kristina/Bree spirals even more..
She falls in love with two more boys..
The outcome of the whole book is sad and sweet at the same time.
Makes me sad.
An immensely powerful book, Crank brings us a heartbreaking downfall into drug addiction.
I'm still quite new to verse novels so it did take me a good 100 pages (which took like 20 mins to read, really - you can fly through verse books in no time) to get comfortable with the writing style.
Furthermore, some of the poems in Crank are stylized in such a mesmerizing way, it makes reading it an experience like no other.Crank is not a pretty story; it's very much the opposite.
Poignant and completely unforgettable, Crank is an eye-opening story that anyone touched by addiction should read.
“Have you ever had so much to say that your mouth closed up tight struggling to harness the nuclear force coalescing within your words? Have you ever had so many thoughts churning inside you that you didn’t dare let them escape in case they blew you wide open? Have you ever been so angry that you couldn’t look in the mirror for fear of finding the face of evil glaring back at you?” ______________________________Every time I read an Ellen Hopkins book it's always an emotional journey and this on
______________________________Every time I read an Ellen Hopkins book it's always an emotional journey and this one is no exception.
This book has gritty and gorgeous prose, an addictive plot; it's thrilling and almost frightening to read, and this is a book that challenged how I perceived things.
What starts as a fun experiment goes into her own personal hell and the struggle for her mind and her life.Ellen Hopkins's daughter was actually affected by crank.
Ellen Hopkins has an amazing way of making you feel like you're actually living in the book.
I'm not sure that I can adequately put my feelings about this poignantly written epic poem/novel into words.
It's one of those books that vindicates my decision to become an educator and teach this type of literature.
It also proves that not all "great" literature looks like a modern novel nor is it written by "dead white guys".
Written as a series of concrete poems, Crank chronicles Kristina's/Bree's downward spiral and addiction to crystal meth.
Told from Kristina's/Bree's perspective, the poem/novel gives readers insight into the monster and its hold over people, especially impressionable teenagers.
Bree craves crank.
Crank is a novel, in verse, detailing Kristina’s transformation into Bree.
On a trip to visit her father, Kristina meets Adam.
Kristina never would have even spoken to Adam.
Kristina never would have made the choices Bree made.
While Crank is not preachy, it does have a fairly clear anti-drug message that may be more effective than a more heavy-handed approach.My only quibble with the novel is Kristina’s parents’ reaction to her drug use.
It was established that her parents had some knowledge of the drug scene dating back to their youth, but did not use this knowledge to help her.
It’s like a giant octopus, weavingits tentacles notjust around you, but through you,squeezingnot hard enough tokill you, but enough to keep you from reelinguntil you try to getaway.The StorylineKristina is a high school junior who’s your typical normal kid who brings home good grades and has never done anything to disappoint her mom.
These are hard books and I can see why people either love them or hate them.
All of Ellen Hopkins books tell a brutally honest tale and you’re not likely to get a happy ending either so don’t be surprised if you’re left beaten and bruised by her stories and not given your fairy tale ending.

How many of you read Go Ask Alice when you were younger? Well, Crank by Ellen Hopkins is sort of like Go Ask Alice, only 1000x better. Upon finishing Crank, I did not think drugs were cool, whereas when I finished Go Ask Alice I was able to see the appeal of whatever that girl was on. In Crank, the drugs are legit scary and the results more tangible and immediate.Read the rest of my review here
Intense, Raw and Disturbingly Thought Provoking. I love it!!! A must read and I can't wait to read the sequel "Glass"
I'd never read a novel done entirely in free verse before, so I was interested to see how it would turn out.After reading it, I have to say that it's the content of a slight novella stretched across 500+ pages.
The bedrock of which is simply that 'verse' implies 'poetry', and 'poetry' in turn promises robust and compact description (the better to navigate the tight strictures of poetic spaces) and inventive and surprising use of language.
For instance, at one point the author writes: "Somehow, Lucinda and I found an odd rapport." This is simply statement, not concrete description.
The characters in the book are Kristina Georgia(a.k.a Bree), her mom, Adam, Chase, and Brendan.
Crank is a type of drug.
Brendan was the first guy Kristina went out with after she came home after her trip.
She only went out with him because he was the only one who she knew that had Crank.Brendan took advantage of that and raped Kristina.
In the book Kristina had nothing wrong with her.
In the end she had a lot of problems.Through out the book Krisitna kept being less and less of herself with the Crank she took.
Anyone who has seen a drug rehab lifetime movie presents could have guessed the story.
THE RAPIST IS THE FATHER!I'm sure there are A LOT of people who will eat this secret life of teenagers drama right up like an apple pie.
If you liked "Go Ask Alice" this is the book for you.
If you didn't like it or even just didn't bother to read it, like yours truly, this is not the book for you.I guess it was just bad luck at a grab bag.

How it can make you feel like you’re at the top of the world, and once it’s gone, the overwhelming need to have more.
I needed more, so I became attached to Crank.I had heard about the books before, but it wasn’t until after I had watched Skins (UK) that I had actually purchased it.
I had a strange need for more stories about teens and drugs.
Right from the start, Hopkins tells us that, “While the work is fiction, it is loosely based on a very true story-my daughter’s.” Even though she did not go through everything Kristina had gone through, my heart still went out to her.
This book is definitely the best poetry book I have ever read.
As soon as my teacher showed me this book and told me what it was about, I instantly wanted to read the book!
Its a story about a girl and a "monster", which is a crystal meth and it is changing this what use to be a perfect girl.
The best part of this book is the details on how the girl dealt with her addiction and how drugs can change a person.
I learned how fast drugs can change someone.
This book was fantastic and I recommend this book to ANYONE who wants a great poetry book!
I typically read Go Ask Alice with my 11th/12th graders because of the detailed description of the main character's drug use and ultimate downward spiral.
There are several reasons why I might do this, one being that Go Ask Alice seems dated to many of my students now.
Go Ask Alice is written in a pretty simple diary format, whereas Crank is written more like poems.
I feel like my students would benefit from reading a novel in this type of format because it can be easily connected to: other poems about drug abuse, ELA poetry terms, songs about drug abuse, etc.

This book beautifully describes, in a verse form, how drugs completely and horribly destroyed a girls life.
This book weaves together a tale of the dangers of drugs.The main character was very relatable, though I have never done drugs, one finds themselves sympathizing with her and her struggles.
Even hating one of the characters so much for hurting the main character.
The main character is were the book finds its strength and its beauty.I recommend this book to anyone who wants a very emotional read, and relatable characters.I honestly can't wait to read more of Ellen Hopkins' books.
Initial thoughts:1. Quick read. The style of verse pulls you into Kristina's reality quickly and with a jolt.2. Ellen Hopkins is able to convict a lot of raw emotion in very few words.3. A dark and fast paced introduction to the destructive nature of drugs/meth.4. Knowing that this story is loosely based on a true story (the author's daughter) made the read more impactful.5. Intriguing to see how Kristina changes, especially moving from one environment to another. To see the monsters grasp wherever Kristina goes.Click here to check out my video review!
This book was really good.
I feel like this book was more factual than fiction because of the accurate descriptions of how Bree/Kristen went through "the monster" aka meth.
It scared me a little bit on what meth does to you.
Overall, this book was really nice and the ending was a little shock.
I still love Impulse more in there, it was so real about deaths and everything, it scared me.
This was also very real but in my heart, it tugs more to Impulse than Crank but I still am going to continue the trilogy.
What is it with me and reading poetry/poetic prose in December?
Last wonderful December, I really enjoyed Ariel by Sylvia Plath.
Going through some things and I wanted to read something human , something personal for catharsis, to let it all go and I was about to reread Forbidden again when I chose this.
Blew me away, such rawness.
Never stop reading.
But what I really loved about this novel was that it had no real ending.
Because life does not have an ending.
And if you think Death is an end, then I am afraid you haven't been paying much attention.
Everything about this book is different from anything I have ever read.
It is small and thick (kind of shaped like a bag of cornmeal) however had I not started it at 10 PM, I would most definitely have read it in one sitting.
Written in prose that changes shape and font from page to page, it is a terrifying, brilliant, important, tremendously sad story based upon the life of the author's seventeen year old daughter.
Unique, seemingly honest and authentic, and a very quick, compulsive read.
I'm still shuddering inside.
I'm changing my rating to five for the prose alone.
"Crank" es un libro que descubrí en el 2015, y desde ese entonces lo busqué sin éxito.
Me lo encontré hace apenas dos días, y aproveché para leerlo porque su formato hace que sea una lectura más ágil de lo usual.
La historia está narrada en verso libre, y de una forma muy cruda y triste, como la realidad que atraviesa todo aquél que cae en las garras del monstruo.
El libro trata temas complejos y delicados como el abuso de sustancias y las violaciones, todo de una forma gráfica, y sin romantizarlos, algo que me parecía fundamental.
