https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229759.I_Am_Fifteen_and_I_Don_t_Want_To_Die
Christine is 15 during the siege of Budapest (when the Russians are attempting to retake the city from the Germans in 1944) and ends up huddling in a coal cellar with her parents--and about 30 other random people--at the bottom of what was formerly their upscale apartment building on the banks of the Danube River.
Having written this book when she was still only 26 or 27, it reads almost as if the events were unfolding in real time, and as if taken directly from the pages of her diary.
Even with the many startling, horrifying situations Arnothy faces in the course of this book, it is still well worth reading.
On the one hand, Christine Arnothy's I am Fifteen and I Do Not Want to Die is that fortunate but relatively rare convergence of a person with an interesting story to tell who is also a technically proficient writer.
The synopsis on my edition implies that the focus of the story would be on the author's experiences of the Siege of Budapest.
I was interested in the siege, in her and her family crossing borders illegally and finding themselves in a refugee camp, in her attempts to assert her identity while nation-less, but we skip weeks, months and years at a time.
The second half of the book recounts the families escape over the border to Austria three years after the war.
Between (at the beginning of Chapter 12) is a beautiful passage where the innocent Christine confesses, and being mostly without sin herself confesses humanities sins done on themselves in the war.
Her confession and the priest forgiving is a very special moment for me.For book club; the author would be a few years younger than Kati Marton's parents (Enemies of the People), and perhaps of a similar social class, yet the author's humanity and sentiments are quite different to those expressed in the Enemies...
Bien qu'il soit plein d'émotions puisqu'il raconte l'histoire d'une jeune fille qui a vécu les horreurs de la guerre , J'ai un peu de mal à vous parler de ce livre.
Je n'étais pas assez touchée par l'histoire de Christine , j'avais l'impression qu'elle était assez froide et qu'elle voulait imposer une certaine distance entre nous et elle , malgré que je lis des témoignages de guerre régulièrement , l'histoire de Christine ne m'a pas touchée et transportée autant que les autres.
Ce que j'ai aimé, toutefois, c'est le fait que Christine nous raconte à travers son histoire l'histoire d'un pays .
I was really exciting about reading this book but found it quite difficult to get into.
It was thoroughly interesting learning about Arnothy's life however I feel as if the shocking stories told could have been done in a more interesting way.
At parts I had to force myself to read which was odd considering the typically thrilling nature of novels with themes such as this.
I would still recommend reading this book as the siege of Budapest in 1945 is an event not documented as much as it should be and this is and interesting and (in parts) gripping novel.
I was thrilled because a book that makes you cry is a great one.
Christine's life in confinement in the basement 'community' in a war ravished Budapest had its ups and downs, its exciting parts and not-so-exciting ones.
And the main let-down for me and the reason why I didn't find this journal tears-worthy were the lacking and very brief descriptions.
I finish by saying that J'ai Quinze Ans is a book worthy of anyone's time.
(I would say that among all books I rated with three stars, this one is definitely the most worthy.)
When the book opens, Arnothy and her family are already living in the basement of their apartment building, afraid to venture upstairs or outside because of the violence that rages.
The bulk of the (very slim) book is spent in that basement or on brief forays outside, into war-ravaged Budapest.
Arnothy and her parents make it out of Budapest, there's a three-year skip in time, and then Arnothy chronicles the escape they made out of Hungary.
She doesn't give details of what the war was like before the Russians came, or what made them need to get out of Hungary altogether.
3 étoiles pour la première partie.
Cette Christine ( âgée de 20 ans ) me rappelle Emma de Madame Bovary,elle me déprime avec son éternelle insatisfaction, elle est si lourde que je n'arrive pas à finir le livre.
J'ai aimé par contre Christine l'adolescente et je n'est pas éprouvé de lassitude en lisant la première partie du livre que je juge remarquablement touchante.Je m'enfonce malgré l'ennui et le rythme du livre change.
Avec l'apparition de Madame Saulner et ce qui suit, j'entrevois un nouveau coté du caractère de Christine qui m'attendri.
C'était cru!
Je finis ce livre mélancolique, le cœur dérangé.
I wish this book had a different title. It sounds like a melodrama along the lines of Lurlene McDaniel, but in fact, it’s a memoir of the two months Christine Arnothy spent hiding with her family and many others in Hungary during World War 2. The title comes from what the young girl confessed to a priest who was smuggled in to meet with the group. The story is harrowing but well told. My daughter read it when she was in middle school and I wouldn’t offer it to a child much younger than 6th grade.
I read this book when i was around 15 years old and there was an Israeli war on Lebanon, i lived this book more than just reading it, now that i'm reviewing it i can only remember how i read it, sometimes on candle lights, and it was a huge emotional experience that i cannot help but giving it 5 stars
من دختر پانزدهسالهای هستم که میخواهم مرگ و نابودی شهر بوداپست را که در خون و آتش میسوخت و محکوم به زوال شده بود را توصیف کنم؛ دختری که حتی به اندازهی یک ورق پارهی روزنامه هم اهمیت نداشت، بوداپست آن روزنامه بود و من آن ورق مچالهشده نخستین جملات کتاب من پانزده سالهام و نمیخواهم بمیرمدر این کتاب میشه جنگ رو از چشمان نوجوانی پانزدهساله دید، نوجوانی که ناچاره در فرار و آوارگی با تحمل رنجهای بیشمار بزرگ بشه؛ کریستین آرنوتی در این کتاب که به نوعی دفترچهخاطرات او محسوب میشه داستان زندگی پرفراز ونشیبش رو
در بخش اول کتاب از سیاهی و وحشت دوران جنگ می‌گه، از ترک وطن و آوارگی و در بخش دوم از مصائب مهاجرت و زندگی دشوار مهاجران.نقاط روشن کتاب بسیار کم هستند، مثل خاطرات هر انسانی گاهی می‌تونن کسل‌کننده باشن و گاهی آزاردهنده اما بدون شک کتابی است ارزشمند برای آشنایی با بخشی از تاریخ و زندگی آنان که پیش از ما زیسته‌اند.
This is a harrowing and realistic account of a city at war through the eyes of a child, back before such accounts became popular (Zlata Filipovic's diary, anyone?) However, I don't understand why the second half was included. It too was interesting, but it had so little to do with the first part that they might as well have been separate books.
This idea is developed when Christine and her family escape and begin to live a peaceful life of luxury.
Only when they again ran away did Christine realize that she had not fully experienced the joys of life and had lost her childhood too early to the pains of war.
The book describes fear by showing the day to day life of Christine and the sorrow that she sees.
But, Christine’s fear was constantly linked to sorrows such as physical pain, death, and loneliness.
The word ‘fear’ no longer meant a dictionary definition by the end of the book.
Đây là cuốn sách viết về chiến tranh lần đầu tiên mình đọc mặc dù mình vẫn chưa đọc hết cuốn sách.Mình đọc bản Việt của cuốn này, tên là ''Uớc mơ'' nhưng do in lâu nên tìm mãi mới thấy phải lấy bản anh nên sr sr ^^Tác phẩm đc viết bằng giọng văn trôi chảy, miêu tả thực và ko gây nhàm chán cho người đọc.
Qủa thực rất thích nhân vật này luôn ấy vì ở hoàn cảnh như thế hiếm có ai dám hy sinh mình vì ng khác cho đến khi anh ấy chết cũng biết nghĩ cho người khác nữa huhu T.T Mình ghét nhất là gia đình nhà dì của Arthony.
La première partie, "J'ai quinze ans et je ne veux pas mourir" est intéressante, et permet de se rendre rappeler que la guerre 39-45 n'a pas touché que les grandes puissances. La seconde partie, "Il n'est pas si facile de vivre", est longue... trop longue. Probablement parce que je n'ai pas du tout accroché au caractère de Christine, qui m'a plus insupporté qu'autre chose.Probablement aussi déçue parce que je voulais le lire depuis des années...
This book was a fairly nice read, and I enjoyed it very much. Though it was short, the author made me feel like I was actually in France during the war. The imagery was fantastic, and being able to see the war from the eyes of a young French girl opened me up to a new point of view on how the war endangered and threatened the lives of everybody in Europe at the time, no matter how old they were.
Really well written. It shows how realistic the war was for everyone, not only the Jews suffered. I liked it mostly because I like historical fiction(Oh I like sci-fi to but that's got nothing to do with this) during wars
A short, easy to read account of a family surviving WWII in Budapest. In today’s cultural climate it feels relevant because it reveals the horrors and carnage of war as well as the goodness of people. Somehow reading about it feels more real than seeing it on screen.
Très poignant du fait de sa réalité.
(c'est glauque, quand même)(mais ça finit bien, ouf!)
Not a huge fan of non fiction but it was a sad book. Very sad true story
Their history is a sad one, and the account of Chrisine Arnothy, whose family was caught up in the WW2 siege on Budapest, tells the very human story of the people who cannot escape war, however much they want to.
Her family were well-educated, middleclass Hungarians living in an apartment block in Hungary.
I would not say it is quite as engagingly written as Anne Frank's diary - nor is Christine as loveable a protagonist, but at least she seems to have found happiness eventually, and has enjoyed some success from the writing of this, her most widely successful work.
Arnothy lived in the cellar underneath the family's apartment building along with her parent, neighbors, and a faithful former Hungarian soldier who sought to bring the occupants the food and supplies they needed.
The story included the desperate search for flour, how the citizens snuck across the city in search of water, how Christine attempted to hide food and water to keep the horses in the apartment's stairwell alive, and how eventually, Christine and her family managed to escape the war-torn city in search of a new life.This book showed a different side of World War Two. So often, I read about Germany and Poland, but seeing Hungary during the war was informative.
The book I Am Fifteen-And I Don't Want To Die by Christine Arnothy follows 15 year old Christine and the struggles she faces as her and her family are trying to survive in Budapest, during World War 2.
They are staying in a cellar with other families who have the same goals, to not get bombed and to make it out of there alive.
Christine and her family's goal is to just make it out of there alive and to avoid tragedy.
The things that we take for granted like water and flour, they have a hard time obtaining.
Det är nog första gången jag läser om kriget från en ungersk perspektiv vilket tvingade mig efter att jag läste boken att läsa mer om vad som hände just i Ungern under kriget.
Boken är lätt skriven vilket gör att man läser den snabbt.
Det är skärmande att läsa att många väntade på ryssarna, de såg de som hjältar för att senare bli dödad av de.
Många vet inte att boken är i två delar och att den här är första boken.
Hennes historia är lång full med överraskningar och hat.Tycker att man har tendens att glömma bort att under kriget fanns det andra som också led.
I really liked reading from the viewpoint of somebody who was in Hungary during WWII.
I feel for those people who had to go through the death and the pain and the loneliness that comes with war.The only thing I wish this book had is more details.
I wish Arnothy had explained her feelings more in the first half of the novel instead of just focusing entirely on the day to day events.
I wish she had just blended them together more so I can feel and see exactly what she is going through.
Slow at the beginning, but told from an interesting viewpoint.
C'est cette partie qui m'a touchée le plus dans ce roman, car on croyait vraiment vivre cette misère jour par jour avec l'auteur, et c'est pour elle que j'ai donné les 5 étoiles.La deuxième partie est intitulée "Il n'est pas si facile de vivre", raconte l'histoire de la migration clandestine de sa famille vers l'Autriche, puis son départ vers la France.
Cette France qu'elle en a rêvée depuis son enfance, va la recevoir avec hostilité et inimitié.
4 étoiles pour cette partie, un peu longue et ennuyeuse parce qu'elle ne contient pas beaucoup d'actions comme la première.
My mum recommended this book to me and upon reading what it was about, it sparked great interest as I have never read about anyone's experiences during World War II in a place like Hungary.
Christine Arnothy gave a detailed account of what it was like and it truly shocked me as I never knew how traumatic it was for those in Budapest at the time.
And all the trouble she and her family experienced when when trying to leave the country...I found that the author's experiences before she ended up in Paris were more interesting to read about but nonetheless, I learned so much from the whole book and like all memoirs, was a valuable read.
I first read this when I was twelve or thirteen and I remember finding it a deeply disturbing glimpse into the reality of wartime.
I'm pretty sensitive so I definitely got some nightmares from this.
I don't think I had ever conceptualized at that age the scope of the carnage until reading this book.This book is sad, but honest.
Which is why I bought a copy recently for my son to read.
He is 9 and not as sensitive as me.
He is fascinated by war and non-fiction in general so it seemed like a good book for him.
This book tells the story of a young girl trying to survive during WW I.
A young fifteen year old girl wonders if her life will ever be carefree and fright-free, she struggles with jealousy of other people who were able to grow up slowly without wondering if they will live through the day.
Arnothy asks hi readers to take a deeper look at people and reaize that each individual person is different, some good, some not as good, on an individual basis.
a good book for middle-grade, YA, and adult readers.
