https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77142.Snow_Falling_on_Cedars
The accused man, Miyamoto, at first denies knowledge of the murder and then changes his story towards the end of the book, and whenever a character asks Miyamoto why he didn't tell the truth from the beginning, Guterson is careful to arrange the dialogue so Miyamoto never has to actually answer that question.
Similarly, when a character uncovers some Very Important Evidence towards the end of the book, he takes his sweet time delivering the evidence to the judge so Guterson can stretch his story out for thirty more pages.
"Accident ruled every corner of the universe except the chambers of the human heart." There are books that are to be read with all your senses, Snow Falling on Cedars is such a book. Here you fell and read about prejudice and star-crossed love, flashbacks of war times coupled with recollections of the dramatic Japanese-American internment during the Second World War. All in a all-present atmosphere, Snow Falling on Cedars has enough ingredients to assure a great read. But there is more, lovers
Here you fell and read about prejudice and star-crossed love, flashbacks of war times coupled with recollections of the dramatic Japanese-American internment during the Second World War. All in a all-present atmosphere, Snow Falling on Cedars has enough ingredients to assure a great read.
But aside from making you feel alive, Guterson creates a wide variety of full-blooded characters, with their own agonies, sentiment most acute in the case of Ishmael and his misery for the lost love and his war sufferings.
Indeed, I found Guterson quite successful in evoking feelings long dormant within me.
It's main character is named Ishmael, and he, like Ahab, is a cripple, who lost a hand during World War II.
Guterson is quite successful in evoking the everything-in-life-hinges-on-this feel of young love: Inside their cedar tree, for nearly four years, he and Hatsue had held one another with the dreamy contentedness of young lovers.
A book like Snow Falling on Cedars helps me remember what it meant to be young, and in love, and certain that all happiness hinged on these very things.
I think it had a trial in it, and a Japanese fisherman, and some discrimination; maybe it happened in an internment camp in Washington state or something.
Or maybe the main character is investigating his father's involvement in a trial in the 1940's.
This language is flowery to the point of making no sense- a waste of the reader's time to ask them to parse out the convoluted imagery.Another reviewer on this site said the book had endless narration- I agree- it needed less description of the scenery and more about the characters and time period.
It’s 1954 on an island off the Washington coast and Kabuo Miyamota is on trial for his life.
The accused man, Kabuo Miyamota, sat proudly upright with a rigid grace, his palms placed softly on the defendant’s table—the posture of a man who has detached himself insofar as this is possible at his own trial.
Ishmael, who runs the island’s newspaper, lost his arm fighting the Japanese, and the terrible pain in that phantom limb represents all the things he doesn’t have—a wife, a sense of community, the life he wanted.
Kabuo may hold himself back at his trial, but Ishmael isn’t even really there.
"None of those other things makes a difference. Love is the strongest thing in the world, you know. Nothing can touch it. Nothing comes close. If we love each other we're safe from it all. Love is the biggest thing there is."  I believe that this suspenseful novel would also appeal to fans of To Kill a Mockingbird.
Kevin Ansbro, author of Kinnara, reminded me of this book...( having just read "The Translation in Love". Although both stories are different...the history is heartwrenching of how the American - and Canadian- Japanese were treated during and post WWII. I just saw that the author has a new book of 'short stories' coming out. "Snow Falling on Cedars" was a beautiful book. I must have read it before I was a Goodreads member -- (I still remember his 'writing'). Always did want to read another book by this author!
Dense, plodding, dull, and lifeless. The plot is buried under a mass of irrelevant description and pointless detail. Guterson painstakingly describes every object, every person, every place, every building, every change in the weather, and the entire life history of every character who appears in the novel, in great detail and at great length. Take out all that pointless description, and you'd be left with maybe six pages of actual story, and even that story would be boring. Read To Kill a Mockingbird instead.
This PEN/Faulkner winning novel employs a narrative technique that distinguishes it.
The tale is told from the points of view of the cast of characters.
Unobtrusive flashbacks take us inside the minds of the characters as the tale unravels in an otherwise straight-ahead narrative style.
The allusions to the snowfall during a great storm were a cohesive leitmotif repeated throughout the novel.
However, the novel has heart and the primary characters rise to meet the harsh crises that life sends their way with dignity and honor and grace.
The novel deals intelligently and unsentimentally about the subject of bias during a painful epoch for Asian-Americans.
It is a densely-written, character-driven novel set on the isolated island of San Piedro in Puget Sound, where the hatreds, bitterness, and wounds of WWII have not completely healed almost ten years after the war's end.
The story opens in December, 1954, as Kabuo Miyamoto, a Japanese-American fisherman, is on trial for the premeditated murder of Carl Heine, a fellow island fisherman.
The motive appears to be seven acres of land that Kabuo believes the Heines stole from his family while they were interned during the war.
I found these last thoughts from Ishmael most poignant: "The heart of ANY other, because it had a will, would remain forever mysterious.
Not sure why I have never read this before but I really enjoyed it anyway.
Usually I am not a fan of court room dramas but the way this one alternated the court room scenes with background information and scenes from the past was wonderful.
The representation of the Japanese people was a little stereotypical - no, a lot stereotypical - but it did not spoil the fascinating story.
I knew about the way anyone with any German heritage was rounded up in England, but I did not know about the Japanese in America.
This is a good book anyway and worth reading for anyone who has not already done so!
I really enjoyed the language and imagery the author created in this book. The title in itself sets the tone. I saw this years before the film and really felt the author conveyed what it was like living in the Pacific Northwest during the Second World War. I think the storyline is timeless. Forbidden love, societal rules...war. Recommended to those interested in period pieces with settings not often written about.
I loved the writing and the subject.
I loved this book. It was a slow start for me but then I really began to enjoy it. I liked the way that the writer gave such detail and background to all the characters; this helped to build the story and for me to feel as if I knew them. It has a lot of themes; murder, prejudice, hatred and humanity. I will now have to check out his other books.
Also at the heart of the matter is the fact that even though Pearl Harbor and World War II ended a decade ago, the tension is still there on this tiny island.The other main part that we learn about is the wife of the murder suspect, who in her youth was in love with a white boy on the island.
However, I was disappointed with the way the relationship between the two young lovers played out, and the end of the book suddenly turned into a detective novel instead of a story about forgiveness, love, and forgetting the past.
This novel is a gem, a pleasure to read, and goes somewhat unnoticed in the realm of modern literature.
A white fisherman dies while out fishing one morning, and a Japanese American is accused of his murder.
The prejudice surrounding Japanese Americans is strong in the aftermath of World War II, in spite of the fact most of them were native born American citizens.
There is a trial and there are flashbacks to World War II right after the attack on Pearl Harbor, when these same Japanese American citizens were placed in internment camps.
So well written, an absolute necessity for a dialogue driven novel.
Imagine what WEST SIDE STORY would have been like if Maria had married Chino like a good little girl.
For ten years.David Guterson has written a careful, elegant novel that pushes all the right liberal buttons (racial prejudice, evil military men, small town nastiness) but resolutely avoids any kind of heat, sexual, political, racial, or otherwise.
The white, small-town rubes are a flock of sheep.
Small towns are all alike.
(This story must have really wowed them on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Hey, that's where all the book reviewers are.
. .)What makes this book so offensive -- is that it isn't offensive.
Twelve years later, Hatsue is married to Kabuo, who is on trial for murdering Carl Heine, Jr, a local fisherman, and son of the woman who “stole his family’s land” while they were in the internment camps.
But all that is unsaid is kept inside one’s soul, festering and shaping thoughts and behaviors.This is the quandry for Ishmael and Kabuo, and to some extent Carl Jr. The attack on Pearl Harbor unites the American citizens against “the Japs” and results in tensions between families that have peacefully coexisted for years.
Guterson really knows how to tell a story! I liked how he gave background information on the characters because it really built the characters and gave an excellent history to help the reader understand where the writer was going with the events.
The first time I read this book I was much younger and happier than today.
So if this review had written at that time, it would get a 5-star book.
The beginning of the book and its end were a bit boring to my taste, yet, the middle of the book remained as good as I remembered it was - fascinating and teach about the prejudices and relations between Japanese and American immigrants in the war, after Pearl Harbor and the years after.
In conclusion, I would say that the book is suitable for reading once in life.
This book has just the right balance of drama, suspense, mystery and romance.
It is set among the historical backdrop of WWII, overshadowed by the dark cloud of the internment of Japanese-Americans and sprinkled with patriotism and prejudice.
Add good writing and steady pace and you have all the elements to make a wonderful novel!
The author does a great job of illuminating the motives of each character and it's fascinating.
I mean, poor Ishamel is motivated by lust and longing and regret and hatred which has led him to a dead-end in life until...
well, you'll have to read the book to find out!
As I neared the half way point in my reading I discovered it again was showing on cable, I recorded it and was looking forward with much anticipation to watching this version and comparing it to the movie.
I don't know why because most movie versions fall severely short of their written counterpart that it's almost a waste of time to bother, however, I was interested.
If you read this book, just forget a movie exists until hopefully Hollywood picks up the topic again (like they did with Gatsby) and hopefully does a better job at it.
It could have been amazing, but Guterson doesn't seem to be able to create a compelling story or fully flesh out his characters.
Though the end of the book doesn't find them obviously transformed, this is for the best because it's truest to who they are.
The rest of the characters are mostly embarrassingly stock stereotypes of 'town folk'.
It would have been problematic in many ways for Guterson to give us a ending like "the whole town learned an important lesson about diversity and tolerance" but at least that would have been an ending.
The story ends timidly, afraid to explore anything too daring.
This remains my favorite book that I've ever read.
It has suspense, romance, heartbreak, injustice, you name it.
In addition, the setting is in the pacific northwest where I live and relates the terrible story of how japanese americans were treated in this country during World War II.
Guterson's descriptions brought the story into vivid focus.
Many of the agricultural references rang true to me, as some of the same practices were in place when I was a boy.
Interestingly, I read another of his books and was unimpressed, so I am not sure I would choose any of his other works.
This last bit is perhaps a drawback to the full potential of his skill.) In addition to these things, his careful use of language, his ability to shift back and forth to be accurate about completely polar opposite opinions held by the characters, the flow of the storyline and graceful swtiching of the grammatical tenses (which was by far the strongest aspect of the writing - I found myself frequently engrossed in something and then all of sudden wondering how I got there, which means he lost me enough to stop paying attention to his writing ability altogether): all of these make this a book worth reading and keeping.Being awarded the Faulkner is what drew me to it, but it may be the case as well that there was not as much fierce competition as of late.
Book.Absolutely pointless, with half-dead characters, mystery that leads nowhere, and a big fat bunch of stereotypes about small communities, Japanese, Germans, war veterans, men, women, you name it.
One of those books where a noble intent only infuriates the reader.
Of course young Japanese people born in the States eat only rice balls and fish and drink only green tea.
Ah and they write on rice paper.
I'd write more but just don't want to waste any more time on this.
The following short review is from the PageADay Book Lover's Calendar for today:This was one of the first popular novels to explore the lasting effects of the internment of Japanese Americans during World War II.
When the novel opens, it’s 1954 and memories of World War II are strong in an island community off the coast of Washington State.
When a Puget Sound fisherman is found drowned, another fisherman, who is Japanese American, is accused of the crime.
This compelling story combines courtroom drama with memories of a particularly shameful chapter in American history.
The island of San Piedro ,1954A fisherman's body is found apparently murdered.
Kabuo Miyamoto, an American Japanese is charged , and a trial is conducted during a fierce blizzard.As the trial progresses, we are exposed to the open wounds related to the Japanese American community before,during and following the second world war:The exile and encampment of the Japanese Americans during the war.The open wounds that still exist in the minds of the war veterans.Prejudice, racism and simple fear of people who are different.Life and hardships in a small community where everyone knows everyone.The book combines various naratives:Historical fiction /Drama.Love story.Legal thriller.I enjoyed the book, I enjoyed the slow pace and the deep description of the nature, fishing and human relationships.
And then this novel’s main storyline - about a purchase of property by a Japanese family from a white family which was nearly concluded at the time of internment - is a personal layer woven into that historical reality.The murder trial going on is that of Kabuo Miyamoto, who was the son of the man buying the property in question.
Ishmael remained completely enraptured with Hatsue yet to the current time, and plays a pivotal role in the trial as an outcome of that love.Betrayal, jealousy, passion, racism, and other human intensities are woven into this community’s life on this small island that is built on fishing and tightly-wound relationships.
Set in the North of Washington State, near the border with Canada in 1954, Snow Falling On Cedars focuses on the trial of a Japanese American suspected of the murder of a local fisherman.
The right, however, as if to make up for this deficiency, seemed preternaturally observant, even prescient, and as he plodded over the courtroom floorboards, advancing with a limp toward Art Moran, motes of light winked through it And here's how he describes the beginning of the storm which provides the ever-present backdrop to the trial.Outside the wind blew steadily from the north, driving snow against the courthouse.
