https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1096390.The_Uncommon_Reader
Each facet is a carefully-polished, succinct paragraph of the best of slightly-comic writing on the surface, but there are always glints of Bennett's attitudes, tastes and where he would like to influence the reader with his obviously socialist stance.
That said, I would still love to see a play, a small film of this book.
No one has ever written about the Queen in quite this way before: someone who would deeply like to be human and explore herself rather than being some sort of demi-god in a gilded cage of utmost comfort and deepest isolation.In real life the Queen is supposed to have plastic containers of cereals on her breakfast table (placed there by the butler or the footman) and for holidays in a cottage in Scotland actually cooks for and washes up after the family and wears exactly what she pleases.
This is a short book, worth its weight in gold, which has Her Majesty, the Queen of England inadvertently discover the mobile library, so beginning her early faltering steps to becoming an avid reader and bookworm.
However, nothing will sway Her Majesty as by this stage the unwelcome thought enters her mind that she no longer needs Norman and sets forth her own path in the world of books.
I strongly urge anyone who loves books to read this as Alan Bennett has the Queen reading an extraordinarily diverse range of authors that is bound to catch the interest of any reader.
Bennett is an author of gentle wit and a subversive turn of mind.
Alan Bennett brings to life what a world would be like if Queen Elizabeth II started reading voraciously after stumbling upon a travelling library... “You don't put your life into your books, you find it there.” Quaint and quiet I think can best describe this. Bennett's usual work is often quite in your face with it's definite humour, but the funny side of this book seems to boil away quietly underneath, rearing it's lovely little head every now and then like a little postage stamp on the edge o
Alan Bennett brings to life what a world would be like if Queen Elizabeth II started reading voraciously after stumbling upon a travelling library...
Bennett's usual work is often quite in your face with it's definite humour, but the funny side of this book seems to boil away quietly underneath, rearing it's lovely little head every now and then like a little postage stamp on the edge of a letter.We follow the Queen of England (and other countries beside) as she becomes a reader, a dedicated reader and finally a rather obtuse reader.
This is so completely out of character for the Queen--she allows herself few hobbies and interests that would indicate a preference for anything, and now here she is, preferring books, developing a love for them, and as she reads more and more, developing some pretty heavy ideas that influence the person she is and how she reigns and interacts with her subjects.But not everyone likes this new habit, hobby, tendency, addiction, whatever.
It all gets resolved in a tidy, unexpected, funny, and completely ludicrous manner at the end, and the ending is suitably off-beat, just like the rest of the book.READ IT!
Rating: 4.125* of fiveWitty, irreverent, and completely charming, Bennett's novella is one I would sincerely hope that Her Majesty read and laughed at when it was published.There are many reviews of this effervescent entertainment, so I will confine myself to noting that the book carries with it a none-too-subtle punch line which I can't imagine would have made Mr. Bennett more likely to be in line for a life peerage, but which I can imagine made him a popular figure around Highgrove.A delightful bagatelle of a book.
Recommended to anyone not connected with the Royal Family.
Near the beginning the story, it was the second book the Queen read that got her hooked, a romance by Nancy Mitford:The Pursuit of Love turned out to be a fortunate choice and in its way a momentous one.
One would feel easier about it,’ said Sir Kevin, ‘if the pursuit itself were less …selfish.’‘Selfish?’‘Perhaps I should say solipsistic.’‘Perhaps you should.’Here is one of the Queen’s insights about the power of reading for her:The appeal of reading, she thought, lay in its indifference: there was something undeferring about literature.
How can I not like a book about someone who loves to read?
In this case that someone just happens to be the Queen of England .It was clever and really a pleasure to read.
However,like others,I'll mention a few of my favorite quotes."What she was finding also was how one book led to another, doors kept opening wherever she turned and the days weren't long enough for the reading she wanted to do.""Books are not about passing the time.
""One reads for pleasure," said the Queen.
"It is not a public duty.""You don't put your life into your books.
My first thought was, "I wonder what the Queen thought of this".
She probably didn't read it, and if she did, I hope she thought it was funny because it was.
In this story she becomes an avid reader after accidentally stumbling upon a mobile library outside the palace.
I didn't count them, but Bennett mentions more book titles and authors names than any book I've read.
The Queen, much to everyones dismay, spends all her time reading and begins to neglect her queenly duties.
She takes on everything from Austen to Proust and her reactions to all this diversity is priceless.
Just an all-around fun read.
It's a delight, and takes about an hour to read.Maybe a short extract will do the job:'Exploded?' said the Queen.
'But it was Anita Brookner.'The young man, who seemed remarkably undeferential, said security may have thought it was a device.The Queen said: 'Yes. That is exactly what it is.
A book is a device to ignite the imagination.'The footman said: 'Yes, ma'am.'It was as if he was talking to his grandmother, and not for the first time the Queen was made unpleasantly aware of the hostility her reading seemed to arouse.
This was a delightful interlude. Indeed, a mischievous wit is driving this novella about the Queen discovering reading and the consequences for the nation.The opening incident in the book with the French president started me off with wicked giggles, and it continued with the subtle parody on staff and politicians gracing her majesty's world. A perfect Sunday afternoon read. Great read for Mother's Day!
Briefing closes down a subject, reading opens it up." "With this dictionary always in hand, Norman read out: 'Opsimath: one who learns late in life'.
"It was a sense of making up for lost time that made her read with such rapidity and in the process now making more frequent (and more confident) comments of her own, bringing to what was in effect literary criticism the same forthrightness with which she tackled other departments of her life." "Read ma'ma?"'Books'?
(and do you?)This little gem about the Queen's awakening to reading late in life is a delicious treat!
What would happen if the Queen started to notice the little things in life?
You know, the type of things that seem to only matter to the lower stations.
Futhermore, what if she was only noticing these things because she started reading books?
Overall, this story has some wonderful insight in to the magic of reading, exploring new worlds and meeting new characters through the written word.
Additionally, this slim story is also a warning: What happens to a person when they stop/never read?
She read, of course, as one did, but liking books was something she left to other people.
'I read, I think,’ she said to Norman, ‘because one has a duty to find out what people are like,’ a trite enough remark of which Norman took not much notice, feeling himself under no such obligation and reading purely for pleasure not enlightenment, though part of the pleasure was the enlightenment, he could see that.
If she could feel she had a duty to read then she could set about it with a clear conscience, with the pleasure, if pleasure there was, incidental.People can often look up to rulers, politicians, celebrities and think they have an ideal life, which I believe seldom is the case.
Libro sottile e che si legge molto rapidamente, ma non per questo una velina: mi è piaciuta molto l'idea di Bennett di rendere la regina un'assidua lettrice e mandare così in crisi tutto l'establishment intorno alla sua persona, perché non sta bene che una sovrana abbia un hobby così solitario e le tante sciocchezze che le ripete il primo ministro (LOL, è davvero Tony Blair).
È bellissimo come viene descritto il potere della lettura e il percorso di crescita della regina come lettrice, che mette su dei gusti personali, impara a comprendere sfumature e sottigliezze che a causa della sua educazione le sfuggivano, a riflettere su molte cose a cui prima di cominciare a leggere non notava nemmeno.
In lieu of a review, I'll list some of the best quotes about reading I have ever seen, all featured within the pages of this book.'Reading is untidy, discursive and perpetually inviting.''A book is a device to ignite the imagination.''I think of literature,' she wrote, 'as a vast country to the far borders of which I am journeying but will never reach.''Who is above literature?
You might as well say one is above humanity.'And this one, which I'm sure Goodreads members who have watched their "To-Read" lists grow staggeringly long will surely relate to:What she was finding also was how one book led to another, doors kept opening wherever she turned and the days weren't long enough for all the reading she wanted to do.
It’s like when Xzbit in Pimp My Ride puts a car inside of your car because he knows you love cars.And Alan Bennett puts books in your book.
She doesn’t want to talk about anything else but books and tortures her subjects constantly asking their opinions on this author or another.
It takes a whole lot of self-control, modesty (and obviously being a better person than I am) to be satisfied with reading only and not have that grandiose need to write.It was also quite brave of Bennett to take on the Queen as his heroine.
These people are not ACTUALLY better than us!
I wasn't a non reader (which is how Bennett portrays the Queen) but for eight long years I worked in our local supermarket, originally on checkouts (soul destroying) & then managing the Bulk Bins.
No whining I swear, but that job cost me eight years of reading time!So I rediscovered my joy in reading much the way The Queen discovers it in the first place!
(hide spoiler)] On her way Bennett takes a few pot shots at everything, including New Zealanders!
If one wanted to pass the time one could go to New Zealand.”  I'm going to treasure that gem!If Bennett hasn't adapted this for performance he should!
A delightful (and slightly crazy) little novel about books and reading and the many worlds they take the reader into or rather the world they take us away from.
She is delighted, and soon lost as any of us readers are as she moves through Mitford and Ackerley, Dickens and Henry James, Sylvia Plath and Lauren Bacall, Compton-Burnett and Alice Munro, among countless others―no longer as interested in the real world, looking for any chance to escape into the new worlds that books open up to us, for once perhaps, doing something that isn’t her “duty”.
Loved this one![p.s. No prizes for guessing which book I'm reading next- hint: the author's name begins with a P (it helps that this was already on my TBR and part of a personal challenge)]
Erneut eine sehr amüsante Geschichte Alan Bennetts,diesmal sogar aus dem britischen Königshaus.Wie viel davon Wahrheit ist, weiß nur der Autor. ;) :)
Queen Elizabeth, in her eightieth year, discovers the joys of reading literature quite accidentally when she happens upon a book mobile in the process of trying to round up her barking Corgis.
As the Queen's interest becomes more avid in the plethora of fiction that she has missed in her life, the duties which she has graciously and energetically fulfilled suddenly lose their attraction.
Her reading sends ripples of discomfort through the staff and all levels of government, which is treated with a delightful comedic touch and gentle satire.
The Uncommon Reader ends with tart wit, and had me smiling as I closed its cover.
I really didn't like this book at all.
This author is supposed to be a great wit and I just didn't "get" his humor in writing style or otherwise.
This book seems to be an endless author and book review which I didn't like.
The book moved along so slowly that I was surprised to find that I was halfway through the book still waiting for the plot to begin.
All in all, this book was dry and dull and not at all what I expected.
I should make a new category and put it in the "I can't believe I finished this book!" section!
What a change from the 800 page behemoths that seem to be fashionable at the moment. Sly humour, warmth, thoughtfulness, alongside a revolutionary vision, and all within the space of around 120 pages.I re-read this for a group that actually pay me to come and talk booktalk to them. There is always a limit on the length of any work due for discussion. This one slides in under the wire with ease: we shall see if we manage to fill 90 minutes talking about it. Questions, anyone?That won't fly the monkey.
(view spoiler)[ Her fashion sense is the 1st to suffer as she takes to wearing the same shoes on consecutive days, next she’s ignoring the corgis; it escalates to both disinterest and tardiness in the attendance of her public engagements.
(hide spoiler)]I won’t ruin your reading pleasure with any detail, enough to say that the author has taken a very simple premise and spun it into gold.
(view spoiler)[ Upon the discovery that she must conduct her tour without any reading material (all her books having been ‘regrettably’ misplaced) she falls into a major sulk.
Yann Martel, award winning author of Life of Pi has been sending Canada’s ultra conservative Prime Minster 2 books a month for years.
As removal men heaved a couple of dozen boxes of books and ask "You like reading, then?" my honest response - not the one given - would have been, "I'm not sure".) But Bennett's Queen is made human in other ways that I found easier to connect with or understand, while showing her as a person of her own time: a gesture she remembered in the moment of making it that was a mannerism of Noel Coward's.
When the Queen of England stumbles across a traveling bookstore, her newly developed appetite for books turns into an obsession.......and the fun begins.There are many great lines and phrases for us readers to enjoy in this short story.....my favorite: "What she was finding also was how one book led to another, doors kept opening wherever she turned and the days weren't long enough for the reading she wanted to do." Amusing little novella!
Beautiful novella, imagining the effect on courtiers, corgis and protocol if the Queen develops a reading habit. The books she chooses are carefully chosen by Bennett to illuminate her metamorphosis. The main danger is reading it too quickly to savour it as it deserves. Bennett at his best.
May be Three and half stars.It is a funny little novella that speaks of the pleasures of reading.
Yes, Her majesty, the Queen is the main protagonist of this novella and the story is about how in her older days she gets enchanted by the pleasures of reading.All through the book there are some interesting observations on reading.
Here are few examples:"Briefing closes down a subject, reading opens it up.""Books are not about passing time.
Far from wanting time to pass, one just wishes one had more of it.""A book is a device to ignite the imagination."But other than such delights, the novella seemed very simple.

Il libro è stupendo. Mi sono rispecchiato molte volte nei “vizi” da lettore manifestati dalla regina. La lettura della Cortellesi fa trasparire ottimamente l’umore, il carattere e i problemi della protagonista. Un libro consigliato a ogni lettore che voglia sentirsi rispecchiare in un libro.
Piacevole, veloce e divertente. Cosa succederebbe se la regina scoprisse la passione per la lettura? Tra frecciatine all'etichetta della corte reale inglese e riflessioni sulla natura della passione per la lettura, un libro che riesce ad essere divertente ed intelligente, il che non è una cosa scontata.
