https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16140036-this-man
Don’t worry, I’ll make this one short.I keep reading these incredibly strong female characters written by men.
They know what they want, can hold their own in almost every situation and don’t need a man to “save them”, lead them around like a lost puppy, or tell them their self-worth.
They don’t slut shame, they don’t hate other women on sight and they’re not plagued by self-doubt.
Then I read a modern romance written by a woman and I get a sponge for a female lead.
I’m wondering, are these male authors writing their female ideal?
If you need a story to relate to the book, this isn't your cup of tea because the book doesn't have one. It has only 3 things, controlling guy (not in a hot way), Crazy girl (in the literal way) and sex (without any chemistry)____She’s mentally undressing me. I should take my shirt off and confirm what she’s thinking.A little something in Jesse's pov.. Here & Here________What the fuck did I just read and waste my time on???? "Watch Your Fucking Mouth" I can totally imagine Jesse barking this
The book had NOTHING.It was like..Enters pretty girl, hot and loaded guy,They meet..Sparks fly..They fuck..She falls in love, talks shit in her head but never tells him..Guy is has a mysterious streak and is a weird controlling freak..Guy hides shit from girl..Girl finds out..Both are left heard broken..The End.Boy can Jesse bark, shout and fume like non other.
I have a feeling even that will be dragged if the author wants to move stuff into the 3rd book.Sarah was a bitch, Jesse is fucking dumb and Ava is so bloody pissing off and stupid.
If Jesse had his way Ava would never leave his sight, he doesn’t like her to work, even going as far as coming into her work and trying to buy all her time and mark time in for every day in her daily planner.
3. The plot, or lack thereof This book basically goes along the lines of something like this:Ava and Jesse fuck, then she runs away and ignores her phone while he leaves a bazillion messages and calls a bazillion times.
At the same time, I really did like him and felt like I wanted to know where his story went, but I couldn’t really look past a few of his demands.Ava. hmmm I don’t know what to say about her.
Again, it wasn’t bad, I just didn’t feel like there was too much change in the characters by the end of the book and wasn’t really sure if the story had gone anywhere except at the very end.There was only one thing in the books that really made me mad.
This will most likely contain spoilers, so if that isn't your thing, feel free to ignore this review entirely.I don't even know where to start. To be honest, I’m baffled by the amount of reviews that rave about how good this book is.I mean, I just—I can’t.But to each their own, as they say. The editing—well, this book could use a good editor. And that's to say nothing about the writing itself, which was bland, pedestrian, and long-winded. Jesse: I typically enjoy reading books with alpha male ch
This will most likely contain spoilers, so if that isn't your thing, feel free to ignore this review entirely.I don't even know where to start.
He claims he only acts like a psycho around Ava. I find this hard to believe.
Ava tells her that she no longer wants to see Jesse and what does Kate do?
Ava needs to seriously reevaluate their friendship, because Kate is a terrible friend.The book itself was really drawn out.
With Jesse hiding Ava's birth control pills, I can only assume where book two is headed.
★★★★★! This Man, book 1 of 3. The in control yet so out-of-control, Jesse Ward’s intense & imperious seduction & pursuit of Ava O’Shea. A whirlwind tale filled with secrets, lies, villains & suspense plus a captivating love!   “He shakes his head. ‘You’re different. I told you, Ava, I’ll trample anyone who tries to get in my way. Even you.”   This Man Series is the intense, epic saga about Jesse Ward, Mr. Sexy, Bossy, Compulsive and Secretive Extraordinaire, in his relentless pursu
This Man Series is the intense, epic saga about Jesse Ward, Mr. Sexy, Bossy, Compulsive and Secretive Extraordinaire, in his relentless pursuit and seduction of interior designer, Ava O’Shea.
As it turns out Jesse and I just need a little more time to connect and once we did I was on “Cloud Nine” (sigh!) He truly is all pure, sexy, unadulterated alpha!Six words to describe Jesse: Intense, bossy, compulsive, enigmatic, possessive and elusive.
Ava O’Shea is everything that Jesse needed and everything we needed to keep the story going.
I, too, have seen similarities.i.e.Eva and Gideon's: "Because I want to fuck you, Eva. I need to know what’s standing in my way, if anything." VS.Ava and Jesse's: "How loud do you think you’ll screamwhen I fuck you?" And that's both like in their second or third meeting.
Anyway, at the end of the book, you will get some of your questions answered, but, I still got quite a few ones like:  What is really Sarah's role in Jesse's life?
Buddy Read with LizI love an alpha but Jesse took it to the extreme. This book was long and just full of sex and fighting. I am not sure if I will be reading on with the series given that there really isn't much of a story.
WTF? Even if I hadn't been convinced yet that I would never read her books, the following mind-boggling statements sealed the deal for me...  My husband was no match for the fantasy hunk in my erotic novels...so I've ditched him.    Ms Malpas, from Northampton, says: ‘All my fictional men are strong, successful, sophisticated and enigmatic. I guess it’s hard for any living, breathing man to live up to such a fantasy.   ‘After all, I created him and I made him the way he is for a reason. Every wo
My husband was no match for the fantasy hunk in my erotic novels...so I've ditched him.
Ms Malpas, from Northampton, says: ‘All my fictional men are strong, successful, sophisticated and enigmatic.
I guess it’s hard for any living, breathing man to live up to such a fantasy.
Every woman needs some fantasy lover to spice up the dull reality of her real life.
I wanted to create my perfect love story.‘But the success of my books and the popularity of my male character led to the breakdown of my marriage.
Sadly it was not solid enough to withstand the changes success has brought to my life.’
4.5 Cray-Cray - Wine Bottles & Mini Dresses & Countdowns to Zero & Eclairs  May I present to you... *drum roll*... My Jesse!  Holy sh!t to the crazy man - Jesse. And Ava sweetie... Before I start can I have a moment please?Theeeeeeere much better... now on to the review ~*~*~*~*~*~Let's start off with presenting the Manor of Jesse... simply beautiful and well I dare you to take an ungaurded peak into one of the rooms (whoops... I did not say that)[image error]The beautiful, young an
I did not say that)[image error]The beautiful, young and talented interior decorator Ava O'Shea heads out to Manor only for a consult but gets so much more.
Chemistry you feel thick in the air and as Ava's friend, Kate, said chemistry that gets YOU horny if you are in proximity.A much older, successful *cough* hotel owner & manager, Jesse, wants her and pulls out all the stops...
the man goes over the top crazy to get Jesse.
seriously with all this mystery he better be a well preserved man in his 60's lol.I really wish we had more on his past, too.
It's time for a re-read and who better to get reacquainted with than Jesse Ward??!!
💖💖💖This story is simply captivating and smokin hot!!!Jesse Ward is all kinds of yummy!!!
The book was hard to put down.The fireworks between Jesse and Ava are BLAZING!!!I'm utterly grateful to the ladies of TotallyBooked for bringing this story to my attention!Just how old is Jesse??
Hoping to find out at least by the third book.I was totally not expecting what happened at the end!
I guess I had my heads up in Jesse Cloud Nine along with Ava :)I'm off to read Beneath This Man next!Totally am loving the angst!!!
Ava tries to stay away from the mysterious businessman because she KNOWS he has "heartbreak" written all over him but there's no escaping a guy like Jesse...
Things started to get much more interesting and there were some surprising revelations that make me anxious to find out how the story will continue...So, despite all of Jesse's craziness, will I still continue reading the rest of the series??
4-ish CRAZY-ass Stars "I’m keeping you forever." Really,really glad I read this story!! I understand now the controversial reviews and why few DNF, but I kinda loved it. It's nothing unique really. But it's funny, it's bat-shit crazy, it's enjoying. My kinda of sexy read! And all of you sexy billionaires, you think you are insane? Possesive? Ha, ha, ha..There is a a new psychotic man in town. And he deserves to be hospitalized!!!!!!!!!! THIS MAN!So, WELCOME TO THE MANOR(view spoiler)[Seriously,
My kinda of sexy read!
The only thing it kinda went old with this story is the summary of Jesse and Ava's relationship...I swear, every 20 damn pages, she was running away!
"The modern man needs to catch on to the fact that women want to be treated as equals, but only when it suits us.
The modern woman’s fierce need for independence doesn’t mean we want to pay for our half of a meal, or that we don’t want a man to hold a door open for us.
She must be really hot in bed for him to put up with her...LOL What I noticed this time around as well is that a lot of the recent books don't even compare to the intensity of Jesse and Ava's relationship.
I have to say that a big part of the book made me feel uncomfortable with the way Jesse treated Ava. I normally LOVE alpha males and even enjoy them controlling their woman!
I am strongly hoping that the next book will reveal more of why Jesse is the way he is, and of course I am expecting that we will be highly entertained with intense rip roaring hot sex!!!
Thankfully, this caution was most definitely misplaced as I very much enjoyed this book – in fact, I loved every second.It’s the story of interior designer Ava, a girl about town, in London.
Jesse may be a bit of an idiot but it sure makes for a captivating and engrossing story and you know I’ll be waiting with bated breath for the upcoming sequel on January 18th as there is still a long way to go yet.So, if you like an uber-alpha, dominant, controlling, obnoxious yet very handsome hero who is shit hot in bed and a taut, emotionally exhausting, intense romance, I think you might well enjoy this book.
After that scene it became increasingly difficult for me to continue on to the end of this book.Oh, and did i mention how Malpas described Jesse as being twitchy, having clammy hands and having a habit of heavy breathing on Ava?!As others have mentioned, this book is by an independent British author who continually uses many British terms that are unfamiliar.
In the beginning, Ava comments that Jesse looks to be in his early 30's, but at other times she acts like he is a dirty old man and must be in his 40's or 50's because she constantly comments about how much older he is than her (even though she is in her mid 20's).
DNF @27%There isn't much of a plot, but then, I guess there doesn't really need to be since it's just smut cleverly, the entire "story" is them fucking and then whining about it, she feels bad she flees from him, he finds her, they fuck again, REPEAT! i'm sick of this dominant, twisted, irresistible smut king stereotype.
Cover & Title - 3.5 out 5Favorite Line - "You better stop with the blah-fucking-zay shit now, or I'll shove this fork so far up your arse, you'll be chewing metal"Favorite Character - KateJesseAva Their relationship Mr Ward is liar, he is deceitful, arrogant, rude & possessive.
It was a different story to 50sog, not a copy like some other books i have read.
I liked the plot for the most part and only a few things annoyed me throughout the book.
(hide spoiler)]I did actually enjoy this book a lot, even if it did seem like i was complaining in my review.
2.5 I-really-wanted-to-rate-this-higher starsTHIS BOOK IS 70% OF.................AND ABOUT 25% OF ....AND ABOUT....5% OF THEREFORE 70% SEX + 25 % ARGUMENTS + 5 % ROMANCE = THIS MAN    My Thoughts :   This book DID have a solid plot..it's just that I found the book a tad bit predictable for my taste.Found the chracters either a bit to whiney or too aggressive with each other. Would I recommend this book ?  Not really.No Will I be reading the sequal ?  Probably yes.Since I own the series :P
Another one of those books...1 Girl Meet Gorgeous Boy...........2 Weeping Cunny, Peeking Nips...........3 Girl: Go away, I should not want you!!...........4 Boy: Stalk, Act generally creepy...........5 Girl: Here comes some stupid reason because of which I have to run...........6 Boy: You've ruined my life...........7 Author: The saga continues in the next book...........8 Me: Ha, fucking ha!!!Now, the sucky things that stand out:1) sludgy eyesI am sorry, but sludgy implies viscous.
Yeah, I thought so!This book makes 50 Shades looks like a deep and a thought provoking piece of literature.These are the highlights of the first hundred pages.
★★★★4 Stars Given to This Man★★★★My Jesse (because I have been waiting for a character to use this delicious man as character inspiration)My AvaAva, an interior decorator, is hired to decorate the new rooms built during at expansion project at The Manor.
I really LOVED him :) This man is HOT, confident, secretive, mysterious, determined, possessive, protective, and above all else, an uber ALPHA male!
At first sight, he determines that Ava is the woman he must have and he is going to do anything to get her.
I could totally understand why she would be weary about a relationship with a man like Jesse.
4.5 Crazy Jesse Lovin' Stars! Hmmm I had mixed feelings about this one. Overall I really liked it though. It had some hot parts and some funny parts. Here we go: Jesse - I really liked him! Much more than I probably should have. He was batshit crazy at times, but also super alpha male, sexy and dominant! I will definitely read the next book just to get some more of Jesse... yum. I love the intense and a little crazy ones!!!! Right up my freaking alley!!! Ava - At times, I did like Ava. Other tim
4.5 Crazy Jesse Lovin' Stars!
Overall I really liked it though.
Jesse
- I really liked him!
I will definitely read the next book just to get some more of Jesse...
I love the intense and a little crazy ones!!!!
- At times, I did like Ava. Other times...
They were both funny and brought a lot to the storyI need the next book to come out like now, hopefully things will come together.
I want to know how old Jesse is, and how he got his scar.
Also, I want a little more background on him...
I tried.
I really truly did.
This book was just not for me.
It's a DNF.
It's DNF-ingF !!!
This book was not my friend !!!!!Jesse Ward: although I didn't get to know you to 100% Here was what I was thinking the majority of the 40% of the time getting to know you and your control freak domineering condescending barking orders bullshit and stalkerish ways: I had a lot of choice words for Jesse beginning with the letter "D" !
Reminded me of a domineering douchebag dipshit Dickhead that ended with the other D word Divorce that I used to know.
*).· .·*) .·*)(.· (.·2,5 StarsShort version of the story: Jesse:  Ava:  And a lot of this: How their conversation start/end: "Shouldn't we talk our about our problems??""Nah."
*´¨)¸.· ´¸.·*´¨) ¸.·*¨)(¸.·´ (¸¸.·2,5 StarsShort version of the story: Jesse:  Ava:  And a lot of this: How their conversation start/end: "Shouldn't we talk our about our problems??""Nah."
"Ava, you've been mine since you turned up at The Manor."I've heard some people refer to Jesse as a "stalker", personally I think he's just a VERY determined man.
This book also has a little heartbreak and a shocking cliffhanger ending, but thankfully for those of you who haven't read this series, book 2 Beneath This Man, and book 3 This Man Confessed are all released.I've heard many people say they don't like Ava, that she runs too much from Jesse.
Kate is Ava's best friend. Sam is Jesse's best friend. These two people will start their crazy relationship almost at the same time Jesse's and Ava's love story started.I guess that everyone wants to know exactly how Kate and Sam started their story. This is it, finally! The first kiss, the first night of feisty Kate and sex machine Sam. Enjoy!This short story is free at Jodi Ellen Malpas webpage at Jodi's blog.Merged review:  "Met the Lord, have we?"  Another reread for one of my favourite seri
Kate is Ava's best friend.
These two people will start their crazy relationship almost at the same time Jesse's and Ava's love story started.I guess that everyone wants to know exactly how Kate and Sam started their story.
The first kiss, the first night of feisty Kate and sex machine Sam. Enjoy!This short story is free at Jodi Ellen Malpas webpage at Jodi's blog.Merged review:
It is just a game of two people who are crazy for each other from the first moment their eyes meet.The book is full of twists and secrets which come out at some point.
The owner is a sexy, mysterious guy and their connections is immediate and powerful.She tries to deny it, not only his a client but she’s recently out of a relationship, but Jesse is a guy used to have what it wants and he wants Ava, strongly.But eventually she gives in and realizes that what they have can’t be stopped and accepts him and is relentlessly pursuit.And then starts the most possessive and crazy relationship you’ve seen.
Wow.This was a crazy ride and I loved almost every second.
Jess Ward is a sinful man that you can’t help but love.
*** I believe its unfair to rate an unfinished book , so I WON'T*** Why did I NOT finish you ask?
One word........
AVA, aka.
Every time Jesse remotely started to make me tingle the cuntfart would speak and .......bye-bye ladyboner, ugh!,Ava  Gawd this SUCKS!!..
I actually liked Jesse, until he started with his " WATCH YOUR MOUTH " bullshit.
The fact that he wasted so much time chasing that basic bitch  also infuriated me.I really hate doing this, but when all my status updates are rants (holy moly, did I go overboard) regarding a character.
I knew it was time.
The Hero in the book, I hear, is  BRITISH!!!!!  Yea. Nuff said. I'm sold. ;)4.5 Stars His face is serious, but still stunning. 'How loud do you think you'll scream when I fuck you?' Holy. Bloody. Fucking. Hell. I...I...I don't know what to fucking say. I'm rendered a bit speechless. This story has left me in a state of frustration; I'm completely dumbfounded. What the hell did I just read? I've never read a story that has left me with more questions than answers. I don’t ever remember feeling li
Don’t get me wrong, this story was all kinds of…smutty, sexy, frustrating fun.
I need the next two books because I have a feeling that if this book ended like this, I’m sure the author will undoubtedly leave us salivating after the end of book two.
Throughout the story, no matter how Ava ‘tried’ she could not shake Jesse.
Let’s just say that Ava and Jesse spend a lot of time making friends in this story.
The sex in this book is in-fucking-credible.
This story will do that to you, you know.
I already miss making friends with Jesse.
Omg no, just no!What in the ever loving f**k did I just read?This book is so bad it's almost funny.O
