https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1040722.Uncanny_Stories
Much later, the poet Charlotte Mew—an eccentric little woman (4'10") who wore size-two boots, a man's suit, and always carried a black umbrella—fell desperately in love with May, a love she was unable—or unwilling—to return.Many themes of her life—difficult families,controlling mothers, alienated affections, thwarted wills, repressed desires, and idealized passions—appear in this volume of ghost tales, Uncanny Stories.
Through it all, Sinclair's fiction remains firmly on the side of duty, truth, tenderness and love.“The Fire” and “The Flaw” are my favorites, but I recommend all the stories in this collection (even though the philosophical “The Finding of the Absolute” is a little too abstract for my taste).
4.5 starsIf you like your ghost stories slightly more subtle with a modernist edge then these may be for you.
The introduction suggests that Sinclair combines the nineteenth century ghost story tradition with insights from Freud and Einstein.
The last (and best) of the stories, The Intercessor, was written in 1911 before Freud wrote about the uncanny.
There is a good deal of intelligence in the twists and turns and not all the stories are about ghosts.
Sinclair’s stories are more psychological and subtle, but not the less chilling for that.
What distinguishes Sinclair’s stories from the rest of the Victorian spooks is their variety. They don’t repeat themselves. They also rise above the level of merely miming the popular ghost tales of the time. Although all the stories involve the supernatural, these stories are hardly ever meant to be frightening so they fall into more of the strange tale category.Sinclair also gives the impression of a feminist still in the closet. I don’t know if that makes any sense.
(3 stars)"The Token" is a ghost story about a wife who died with an important question in her life unanswered.
(4 stars)"The Nature of the Evidence" is a ghost story about a first wife who returns to this world when her husband remarries to protest her disapproval of his choice of second wife and prevent the two of them ever sharing a bed.
(4 stars)"If the Dead Knew" is a story filled with tension revolves around a mother-son relationship.
(2 stars)"The Intercessor" tells the story of a haunting by a little girl's ghost.
March-Russell writes that due to the very nature of these stories, they are 'disturbing' both in their content and the Modernist form in which they have been written.A recurring motif in Sinclair's stories is the 'horror of family life', and the 'theme of self-denial'; she explores both in each of these stories, weaving them cleverly in with mysterious circumstances and paranormal occurrences.
Uncanny Stories has a curiosity about it; it is as though Sinclair has chosen to explore our world through things which cannot be proven to exist, but which a lot of people in the Victorian era, for instance, as well at the time of writing, were highly interested in.

Note: This book contains the title collection and adds the title story to one of Sinclair's later collections. The upcoming collection of Sinclair's complete supernatural work, THE VILLA DESIREE, will contain the complete contents of UNCANNY STORIES and THE INTERCESSOR &c., as well as the five supernatural stories in TALES TOLD BY SIMPSON.
have to say I found these stories to be a little disappointing.
They were supposed to be a more psychological ghost story, but were just a little odd.
I think the nicest was a story called "The Intercessor" about a man who stayed in a haunted cottage with a family and had to solve the mystery of the dead child that he heard crying every night.
It was a very nice story; the man had no fear of the child ghost and just set about setting things right.
It was rather odd and too long and a little dull.
I've no doubt about the influence of May Sinclair on the ghost story, and how she's overlooked as a major influence. But I found these stories hard work in a boring kind of way, probably because she's been emulated a lot in the interim, and I feel like I've already seen what's in here.Also, I have a really hard job enjoying anything too Freudian.
I found this an uneven collection - some of the stories I loved, others I wasn't so sure about. A powerful Gothic writer, anyway.
It was a bit dull really, just like their affair.
“The Token” is about a man who can’t express his love for his wife, so when she dies she comes back to find out if he really loved her.
“The Nature of the Evidence” is about a man who takes a new wife after his first wife dies.
“The Victim” is a murder story.
I really liked this story.“The Finding of the Absolute” is the story of an amateur philosopher who goes to heaven.
Overall I enjoyed about half of the stories in the book, the other half I found a bit dull.
"The Nature of the Evidence" is a great brief example of this, where a man's lovely child-bride dies, and then returns to literally fight it out with his next wife, a creature of voluptuous flesh and blood.
I very much enjoyed "The Nature of the Absolute," - a curious experiment in describing heaven in material terms - though I don't think it would tell well aloud - but one or two others here certainly would - "The Victim," and maybe "The Inctercessor." I've been curious about Sinclair's novel, Mary Oliver, which was brought out by NYRB, and this has whet that curiousity further.
Reading this book was a sharp turn for me since I usually read modern supernatural fiction, but an enjoyable one - although the technicalities of the somewhat old English were challenging.
As far as horror stories go, I wasn't terrified or thrilled, but rather intrigued by the various shades of human nature that Sinclair showed throughout the book.
It was fascinating how, for example in "The Intercessor" and "If the Dead Knew," she manages to make the reader understand and relate to a supernatural existence or apparition, and see their "feelings" in the same light as those of tangible, "real" existences.
I wasn't sure what I was going to think of this, because I tend to find older horror and supernatural stories too gentle, too slow, or too formal and mannered for my taste. But when it comes to ghost stories, all of those things can work in their favour. From the intimate to the existential, May Sinclair's stories were a constant surprise to me, and a couple of them gnawed at my brain long after I finished reading them.
A really good set of ghost stories from May Sinclair. The stories themselves are pretty solid. There's only one that I didn't particularly care for. However, as an artifact of an early 1900's female viewpoint, there is a lot that can be learned from them. The ghost stories read as allegories for the female experience, and are quite fascinating in that regard.
This is a collection of eight stories. They are not 'ghost stories' in the traditional sense and are surprisingly modern for the time. There are elements of the supernatural, but also a lot of psychology and a feminist sensibility.
A superb collection of supernatural/ weird fiction from a criminally unknown author May Sinclair can't recommend this collection enough
uncanny and rather dull.
