https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/175328.The_Star_Beast

Tenía este libro aparcado en el lector y decidí echarle un vistazo aprovechando una noche de sábado tranquila.
Al terminar el primer párrafo recordé que lo había leído hace un millón de años, cuando aún era joven y todo me sorprendía.
En otro momento lo habría dejado y buscado algún libro que no hubiese leído pero por nostalgia seguí leyendo.
A pesar de su sencillez es una novela que trata temas profundos: la inteligencia de una especie, los prejuicios y temores ante lo extraño, las deficiencias de la democracia cuando los políticos solo buscan la reelección...Muchas ideas para una simple novela juvenil.
Very well done, but more importantly the story itself is impressive especially for the time.In 1954, women had their place, we were adding 'God' to our national sayings, blacks were relegated to minor characters, there was a fierce nationalistic movement, & male WASPs were the perfect heroes.
This book was intended for the youth of the time & I grew up reading many of them which pounded these points home.
The star of the show is Lummox, a name that fits during the time of the book, but doesn't make much sense historically.
Struggling to know how many stars to give this one. My 10 year old son gave it 4.5 stars and my 16 year old son gave it a 4 star. When they told me that I was shocked. In the beginning, I probably would've given it the same, but then it turned political and bored the hell out of me. I would've preferred a fun story of a boy and his "star beast", not a trial concerning a boy and his beast. Blah!The audiobook was an enjoyable full cast production.
This is distinctly a Heinlein juvenile, and it's not one of the best. It's not terrible - Heinlein is almost always readable and interesting, whether or not the story is great, or the politics worrisome. But it's not great, and certainly not as good as some of his other juvenile novels. His take on female characters is particularly weak in this one.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook

From the basic plot description, one could easily think this was a classic boy and his dog (though replace dog with star beast) style story, filled with heart warming moments of separation, reunion and everyone learning a valuable lesson… and indeed these aspects are a part of the story, but they are far from the whole.
Here it feels appropriate and adds a sense of desperation, showing that this situation is much bigger than anyone thought at the start and the implication of the final decision from earth’s standpoint could change everything drastically.
What more need be said, really?A side note, if you will, on the subject of women in Heinlein's universe.
Someone noted in a review a quote from the male lead ""very nearly as good a head on her as a man, and pretty to boot".
This quote, out of the context of the novel, is quite damning...but how the male lead describes the woman, and how the woman is portrayed by Heinlien are two completely different things.
This woman who is "nearly as good a head as a man" runs circles around EVERY male in the book.
Do Heinlien's women need men?
And yet just as much, the man needs the women.
I've read this so many times, I can't believe I haven't marked it as "read"! An all time favourite that doesn't lose its charm for me.
I've read reviews that call this a coming-of-age story.
The undersecretary is a force to be reconned with, at least until he meets up with Johnny's girlfriend, Becky.It was amusing to read the terminology Heinlein called various futuristic gadgets.
Some things, like politics, never change.Heinlein didn't do so well on devining future attitudes and colloquial language.
Attitudes towards women were terrible.
"Go take that stuff off your face or I'll smack you," and other physical abuses were common threats coming from a 17 year old to his girlfriend, or to his pet.
Star Best landed on my bookshelf after I picked it up at a used book store for less than a dollar.
I simply couldn't resist the slightly adorable, eight-legged, dinosaur-creature-thing on the cover.
His (or her) personality reminded me of Lennie from Of Mice and Men. They're both unavoidably lovable creatures who don't understand their own strength or place in this world.
I was more than ready to give this book 5 stars.
But then came the last 30 pages, or so.
Aside from that, this was a phenomenal book I was unable to put down until the last word was read.
This is an extremely pleasant juvenile from Heinlein.
I had always imagine Red Planet would be the intro to Heinlein for the kids, but we stumbled into this one, and they absolutely fell in love with Lummux.
It took a month of car trips with the whole family, but they finally got through it, and loved it.2014: A touch over a year after going through this one with the kids, they insisted that we revisit it.
They loved revisiting this world.
:-)2017: This is the kids' favorite Heinlein and one of their favorites overall.
i read this ages ago but the main thing i took away from it was that heinlein can be a sexist douche.
However, it isn’t easy to conceal such a large creature.Readers of Heinlein’s previous books, not to mention my reviews, may feel that The Star Beast is another version of a tale we have read before.
The reader accepts this, as it is explained by Heinlein in such a logical way that the reader seeing events from Lummox’s perspective becomes totally accepting of his point of view.Anyone who has ever owned a pet will recognise aspects of Lummox as a large, fairly intelligent, clumsy-yet-well-meaning animal.
However I was pleased that Star Beast makes its points through humour without hammering them home sledgehammer-style, and this means that I found myself remembering the novel more as a result.
His great grandfather (Well, one of the prior John Thomases, I'm too tired to check on the relationship) saw Lummox on this planet they explored and thought he was cute and took him home and he's been there ever since.
Well, Lummox and John Thomas are in plenty of trouble already but that is just the tip of their woes.
Heinlein has a great scene making fun of pompous court proceedings.
As an adult, she seems more like a brat that needs to be cut down to size the way John Thomas's mom finally gets told off.
Garlaicīgi, tā arī netiku līdz beigām.
Note: Even though this is Book 8 in the series, it works perfectly fine as a stand alone novel.John Thomas Stuart has a very large pet, Lummox.
Town authorities are ready to go to extremes, but no one is ready for the extremes that both John and Lummox will go to in order to remain together.This was a fun coming of age book.
Considering the over all 1950s wholesome nature of this book, I applauded breaking of the mold in this matter as it made things more interesting.Besides Betty, John’s mom, a female secretary, and perhaps Lummox (whose species really has 6 genders so I should probably ask Lummox what gender pronoun he prefers), there were no other female characters in a decent sized cast of male characters.
This has the distiguished honor of the being the first REAL book I read.
I don't remember) and did a book report over it and everything.
At the time, I loved it...but re-reading it as an adult, I realize that it's not one of Heinlein's best.
The run-down (non-spoilered): John Thomas has a giant, talking pet alien, named Lummox, who is always getting into trouble.
After Lummox gets loose and does some property damage, The local authorities decide that Lummox must be put down, but John decides to run away to save the life of his best friend/pet.
-A pesar de que se puedan encontrar cosas en el fondo, pura evasión.-Género.
Ciencia-Ficción.Lo que nos cuenta.
Lummox es “un animalito muy tímido” para su dueño, el adolescente John Thomas Stuart XI, pero para casi todos los demás es una bestia enorme a medio camino entre un rinoceronte y un triceratops de ocho patas, apetito insaciable y voz de niñita cuya última travesura termina llamando la atención del Departamento de Asuntos Espaciales de la Federación, que manda un delegado a la localidad en la que residen la familia Stuart y Lummie para descubrir que la criatura no solamente es inteligente (y en realidad lo es mucho más de lo que simula ser) sino que efectivamente es parte de una especie extraterrestre no catalogada entre las que ya hay en la Tierra.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
1977 grade B+1995 grade B+2015 grade A-/B+This book was written at the time when Heinlein was trying to transition SciFi from Teen to Adult.
It also still mostly has the earlier quick paced story telling style.
The only reasons it does not get a full grade A are the style, the courtroom scenes, and the political maneuvering - the last two just being things I don't care for much.
But even those are quite good.The basic story is about an underage teen with what he thinks is an intelligent alien pet.
It is a very good book.
I read Panshin's review of Heinlein's work, Heinlein in Dimension A Critical Analysis, & got a craving to re-read this old favorite along the way. I'm glad I did. It's one of the Scribner YA novels he wrote & very well done. Well worth the re-read. The story is simple & interesting. Of more interest were the many dropped hints about politics, society & various future gadgets. While it's not a future I find real, it's interesting & fun. Lummy, short for Lummox, AKA The Star Beast, is wonderful.
A classic Heinlein juvenile, one of the few with a strong female character.
The full-cast audio version is extremely well done.
It's not a traditional YA novel.
There's a diplomatic crisis and a courtroom drama in the novel.
There's not really any action, but there's a lot of excellent character interaction, especially the YA leads, Betty and John Thomas with "The Star Beast" named Lummox.
Many of the characters aren't as fleshed out as they could be (e.g., John Thomas's mother), but I love the young leads and the overall story.
The full-cast audio adds an extra dimension to a good story.
I read this in high school, many moons ago, and just re-read it last week. It still totally captivated me. I loved the way the story changes your perceptions and assumptions about the 'Lummox' beast as the story progresses. And the relationship between boy and beast is charming.
I recently reread this so Ian and I could discuss it. I'm not sure if he's finished it. But I remembered how much I love Heinlein.
Listened to the Full Cast Audio CDs, an excellent reading of another excellent Robert Heinlein book. I look forward to reading the 1954 book that I have never read before!
Good clean fun.
Robert Heinlein's books for young adults are still among the best of the genre.
An excellent SiFi story for young readers, and extremely funny. This is my favorite Heinlein book. Highly recommended.
This is one of the timeless stories Heinlein wrote for teenagers in the fifties. My fiance, dad and I all have a soft spot for the Heinlein stories in this vein.
Love this one too. I love the "twist" in this one.
