https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75887.Heliogabalus_or_the_Crowned_Anarchist
It is an account of sorts of the decadent teenage androgynous Emperor Heliogabalus.Not that the average reader (in which category I include myself) will have an earthly idea what this is all about (given the limits of a modern education) until you remember that it is best not read but DECLAIMED out loud in a theatrical manner and that it has to be seen as the last flowering (written in the 1930s) of a forty year cycle of French decadent writing (and part of a much longer cycle of French artistic sensuality).
It is no accident that Artaud's circle included the High Priestess of French sexuality, Anais Nin.The publisher refers to it as the 'most accessible' of Artaud's books - the mind boggles at what the others must be like ...
“A thing named is a dead thing, and it's dead because it is set apart…”Antonin Artaud tells the story of Heliogabalus as if he writes an alchemical treatise and in the first section: “The Cradle of Sperm” he depicts the transformation of sperm into a human being as is he is describing a transmutation of lead into gold… For him all metamorphoses are possible – the matter turns into spirit, the form becomes content.“Principles are only of value to the mind, and to the thinking mind; but outside the mind that thinks, a principle is reduced to nothing…”In the world and in the universe everything is interlocked: stars and fates, witchery and science, paganism and collective unconscious, divinity and Freudianism, astrology and Christianity, history and the present, life and death.
Voice Claudia also describes the history of a potential, and probable, active-trait male in her territory.
121)*I begin this short note on Antonin Artaud’s Heliogabalus with a quote from a fictional encyclopedia of a fictional future history because this novel puts me most in mind of the Bene Gesserit’s obsessive search for the kwisatz haderach, the person who would bridge the gap between Male and Female.
Especially based on this quote:All the same, Heliogabalus the pederast king who wanted to be a woman, was a priest of the Masculine.
That said, I understand why Artaud feels such rage and why he responds as he does.
Tutte le guerre che i popoli si sono fatte, popoli gettati gli uni contro gli altri in armi, e in armi per delle idee, convien pensare che Eliogabalo le porti in sé, non come un riflesso o una immagine, ma come un'energia che vien divorata e che mostra la sua attività.
E se l'esercita con demenza è perché questa religione stessa è demente, perché essa è il contraccolpo umano, la riproduzione della guerra, che gli dèi in armi hanno dovuto farsi una volta nel caos.
Una guerra per i princìpi è già molto rara, ma una guerra di princìpi, levati gli uni contro gli altri, e che si batterebbero come degli Esseri, è leggenda o follia.
This book alternates between turgid/dense and fast/insane. I read it because I recently read Deleuze's  The Logic of Sense  and in that book Deleuze consistently talks about Lewis Carroll, the Stoics, and Artaud. I haven't read Artaud since I read  The Theater and Its Double  which I honestly don't remember very well, even though I remember I loved it. Anyway, I see why Deleuze loves this book; a lot of Deleuze's thought, and a lot of writing style, is encapsulated by Artaud.The first part of th
and in that book Deleuze consistently talks about Lewis Carroll, the Stoics, and Artaud.
It's here that Artaud prefigures Deleuze with his talk of levels, the reality of principles, Love, the Will, religion, numerology, etc.
It's here that we get a sense of why Artaud thinks the debauched emperor Heliogabalus was an anarchist.
According to Artuad, he attempted to do that through destruction of what is sacred, and one of his prime weapons was sex.It's not a perfect book, and some of it is both boring and deeply slow going, but the end is worth it.
Per la precisione si tratta della biografia più estrema vomitata su carta. Dalla torbida concezione del futuro imperatore romano alla sua entrata sodomitica nell'urbe, fino ad arrivare alla miserabile morte nella cloaca massima: dallo sperma agli escrementi, tutto è liquidamente imbrattante ed eccessivo, nella prosa di un genio. Un capolavoro. Non scherzo.
This is one of I believe two novels that Artaud wrote. It's about the Roman emperor Heliogabalus, whose reign was noted for degeneracy and excess to the point where his generals eventually murdered him for it. Artaud makes the argument that his corruption and excess were so extensive and pure that in themselves they constituted a work of art transposed into the real world.
This book was very difficult for me, but difficult good. Sometimes hard to sort the gibberish from the gems, but there were some amazing nuggets. Because it's not a straightforward biography, we get a real sense of the psychology and dichotomies within the child god emperor, but not any detailed chronology.
Straripante di concetti, paradossi, documenti, descrizioni, nomi e storie. Un'opera complessa, gravida di elementi, che richiede lo stesso studio da parte del lettore quanto quello di chi l'ha stesa. Difficile dire di più senza scadere nelle citazioni o nel banale.
This bitch was punk as fuck
Livre marquant. Vaguement incompréhensible. Quelque part entre le délire et la recension historique. Beaucoup de voyages possibles à l'intérieur de ces pages; des couleurs et des images très fortes.
But also important are the letters he wrote from Ireland, apocalyptic visions in which he foresaw the Occupation of Paris, and for which he was once again committed to an asylum, where he remained throughout the Second World War. Antonin Artaud was a kind of saint, a mad prophet and outcast who refused to abandon his Quixotic quest to liberate us from our normalcy and the iron grip of Authority.
roma imparatoru heliogabalos'u (varius avitus bassianus) gayet subjektif olarak ele alan ve gerçekten sert bir üslupla yazılmış artaud kitabı.
bir erselik olan genç imparatorun ancak 4 yıl süren kıyıcı, savruk ve ahlak dışı iktidarında anarşist bir güdülenme bulunduğu iddiasındadır artaud.
ona göre heliogabalos, o günün bütün dini, toplumsal ve siyasi etik değerleriyle alay etmekteydi.
önemli devlet görevlilerini pozisyonlarından alıp yerine alelade insanları (arabacı, bahçevan gibi) atıyor, roma'ya gelir gelmez bütün erkek senato üyelerinin işine son verip yerine kadınları meclise dolduruyor, penis uzunluklarına göre senatörlere pozisyonlar veriyor, toplu hadım ayinleri düzenliyor, dönemin bütün tanrılarını tek bir tanrıda birleştiriyordu...
"heliogabalos'un bütün yaşamı, eylem halinde anarşidir.
Me volvió loco. La que va.
Whilst reading this, I considered for the first time the difficulty Artaud's writing must pose for the translator.
The pagan rituals and alchemical symbols bear relation to his ideas on theatre as cruelty and so forth, but this is something that makes more sense if the reader is familiar with Artaud's work in a broader context.
Always the idea of performance as ritual, of symbols drawn into the material realm, thereby transforming it into something truer and purer (transmutation, if you will).
But very interesting and worth a read if you like crazy French Surrealists with a penchant for plague and blood imagery.
Le texte examine l'histoire d'Héliogabale, un empereur romain du III siècle.
En fait, Héliogabale a une beauté féminine et il prend part aux rites pédérastes : pour ça il représente l'union du féminin et du masculin dans une vision monothéiste que tout absorbe.
Donc, selon cette idée il y a beaucoup d'éléments dans le monde, mais chaque chose fait partie de l'Un. Artaud appelle Héliogabale 'anarchiste' parce que il port beaucoup de changements dans les coutumes romaines : il ne port pas le chaos, mais un autre type de ordre.
Cette une histoire que, parfois, rassemble à une essai.
Looking around here at peoples disappointing responses one wonders why these people "read" -the only good thing that can be said is that these people are try to evolve their consciousness (although failing)Its 'cute' to discover that there are all these little Pandora's out there opening up Artaud/Ceasaire/Maloror>>>>WARNING!
CONTENTS UNDER PRESSURE!This ain't Dorothy Livesay Kids!
If you are still stuck on Enlightenment thought skip surrealism, it won't allow itself to be constrained by the straight jacket of rationalism, if you are thus constrained then yes you may feel you are confronting a foreign language...just because I can't speak Icelandic doesn't mean I assume that it is merely the chattering of the insane...
While reading this book at a grocery store bench I overheard a 13 year old defend himself to his mom
Nasty young man becomes emperor of Rome; mayhem ensues. Artaud's narration of the events swallows the empire whole and then deposits it into the basin of our understanding.The layout of this book was just terrible. The publisher failed to do the most perfunctory copyfitting—there are widows and orphans strewn about the text.
I'm going to read this as soon as I get my hands on it though sections of it are in the large, red Artaud anthology. Artaud finds one of his doubles in Heliogabalus, a Roman emperor who makes most other rulers look tame in comparison. The translation is done by the guy who did the recent Maldoror, so it's going to be good too.
"Heliogabalus was born in an era when everybody slept with everybody” and he’s the hero of this era: he leads every extreme to its peek and dies in the war between men and women, because "it’s not the coitus but death [...] of which all these religions reveal the imposing, evil figure".Plot: Elagabalus was born a priest, becomes god-emperor and dies in the sewers.
A pretexto de um anarquista romano desfrutamos de um surrealismo enriquecido pelo detalhe de uma pesquisa obsessiva. No fim fica a dúvida se lemos uma história, um exercício retórico ou poesia transformada insidiosamente numa prosa biográfica. Seja como for, mastiga-se!
La disorganizzazione dell’ordine, le urgenze del caos e la demoralizzazione sistematica del potere: Artaud e l’allegra fuga verso il nulla di Eliogabalo, l’imperatore vissuto e morto “in stato di aperta ribellione”.
Read Portuguese translation.
um desfile de pixas, sodomia, poder e da mais magnificente metafísica. obra-prima. nem mais, nem menos.
Self-indulgent madness. What can anyone expect from Artaud? The book is supposed to be about Heliogabalus, but most of the book is comprised of ravings about the occult.
terei de reler. há muito que me passou ao lado, só no último terço do livro comecei a entrar no espírito.actualizarei esta review brevemente.
