https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350868.The_Neon_Wilderness
I don’t know, but Nelson Algren is fucking awesome, and the short story collection The Neon Wilderness is arguably his best work.Full disclosure: I grew up in Chicago, and civic pride is a factor in my Algren fandom.
For example, in the leadoff story, “The Captain Has Bad Dreams”, a brilliant, shadowy roll call of the night court’s denizens, Algren frames each dismal, crooked suspect in a tragic light without sugaring on the sympathy.
Algren’s blending of the gray, urban setting with the characters’ internal lives is virtuoso work.
Not a story in The Neon Wilderness disappoints.
Algren deserves rediscovery.
“This was the true jungle, the neon wilderness.
Sometimes the big juke sang.”If you only have time to read one Algren book and want to understand him, then The Neon Wilderness is the book for you.
A shared feeling of humanity grows into the reader, that in the end, you care for every single character.“The Captain Has Bad Dreams,” a story of a captain overseeing sentencing of criminals, is one of my favorite stories.
Despite Algren showing the poor as “mean and stupid”, without sentimentalizing them, he delves into their unique human spirit, allowing the reader to feel compassion for them.
Algren is probably most known for "Walk on the Wildside," but for anyone who is discovering him for the first time, I would highly suggest "The Neon Wilderness." It's stripped-down 20th century prose at its best.
Not to mention, the characters in these stories are all too real, but at the same time, strikingly unique; particularly Railroad Shorty, a character from "The Face at the Barroom Floor." Railroad Shorty is a wheelchair-bound paraplegic that you feel absolutely no sympathy for.
Just read the story and you'll find out why...
I took my time with this book, as I try to do with all single-author short story collections--when I read them too quickly, the style can get stale fast.
I wish I could say that I liked the book, but looking back over the titles and the first few sentences of some of the stories I'd read a few months ago, I realized that I couldn't remember anything about them at all--about all I could come up with was that Algren generally writes about the down-and-out, small-time criminals, and characters stuck in dead end lives.

As one of the first writers to even dare speak of the people who lived life on the other side of the tracks, The Neon Wilderness is an excellent collection inside the minds of Division Street (Chicago 1930's 40's and 50's) outsiders, thieves, con men, prostitutes, prize fighters, and runaways. Algren doesn't just report about the down and out or the "common man," he embodies them and gives them a voice and maybe, just maybe some redemption.key stories..."The captain has bad dreams""A lot you got to holler""The face on the barroom floor""Poor man pennies""He swung and he missed"
A very good selection of short stories by Nelson Algren, a man who's writing has all but disappeared from both the popular and critical stage. My favorite story in this collection is "A Bottle of Milk for Mother," which I would like to someday make a film of. I feel that this story is the most poignant of the collection, though they all provide different perspectives on the poor, down-and-outs who missed the American Dream. An important predecesor to the Beat Generation, Algren's works should have aplace on every Beat and dissident entheusiast's bookshelf.
My favourite part was the dedication: "For my mother and the memory of my father". And the introduction. To revisit: the heroes, he couldn't boogie-woogie worth a damn, poor man's pennies, he swung and he missed, el presidente de mejico, kingdom city to cairo, per venceremos, no man's laughter
This book is too fucking beautiful for words to describe.
This book really packs a punch. Incredibly raw tales about the strung out, the no-hopers, the vagabonds and the forgotten.Do yourself a favour. There's nobody quite like Algren.
Algren showed off his gritty prose with his own poetic rhythm in this collection of short stories. These stories take readers to the underbelly of yesteryear's Chicago with deeply flawed characters, tragedy after tragedy, and enough Chicago landmarks to warm any Chicagoans heart. Not all the short stories grabbed me, but a few will stick with me for a long time.
Some stories were better than others
Witty and still relevant, best book of January for me. Stories are fleshed out and full of feeling. Some of the best short stories ever written are in here. Hope you don't mind a little grime. Five stars here
For Algren, his stories never seem to have heroes- just people living through difficult circumstances.
It was just a couple hundred oddly assorted Tennesseans, Texans, and Chicagoans who wanted to go back to their respected hills, ranches, and streets." I really appreciated the inherent complexity of characters who are not presented as heroes but rather, like a journalist recording events, as people struggling through circumstances.
Of personal interest was to learn about the experience of lower-class Jews, not the wealthy intellectuals that is common in stories from the 1970s onward, but the Jewish gambler or the Jewish boxer.
This book, and Algren's others, really sort of blew me away, in that, rather than sentimentalizing the poor -- and I think Algren said this in an interview once -- a lot of them are simply "mean and stupid." But Algren shows them being mean and stupid and somehow still makes you care about them.
Algren also said the hardest thing to do was write about what actually went on in one city block during one day and get it right.
I think of George Higgins and Richard Price as being the modern writers who followed in Algren's footsteps, and the TV show The Wire as serving the same kind of purpose that Algren's books served in his day.
I love Algren and his style. The way he captures people in thirties era lower socio-economic groups, their struggles, failures, and sad/hilarious ups and downs, is pretty good. Definitely set the stage for other writers and is rightfully coming back in vogue. Check it out if you like fiction/short vignettes about people on the other side of the tracks (mostly immigrant Poles with the a few Mexicans, Jews and Italians in the mix from the tenements of Chicago).
"This was the true jungle, the neon wilderness. Sometimes, the dull red lights, off and on, off and on, made the spilled beer along the floor appear like darkly flowing blood. Sometimes the big juke sang."
Picked this up because of a line in a Hold Steady song, which is probably the dumbest reason for reading anything. Hit by amazing lowlife fables, dirtier than noir and without the glamor. Seedy, but so worthwhile. An amazing book.
Brilliant collection of stories about ordinary people living ordinary, sad, tragic and courageous lives. Algren writes with deep empathy, cutting insight and sharp humor. One of my favorite books - this is the third or fourth time I’ve read it, and it’s always marvelous.
Fuckin' A.
i just love this book. read it!
being somewhat of a Chicagoan, I liked these stories
Short stories set in Polonia (now East Village) and elsewhere. Stranger than truth.
compelling vignettes concerning the dispossessed in chicago. one of the more lyrical literary punctures of the american dream mythos.
One of my favorite Algren books. Just so full of life and death in these little stories.
This was my second Algren and boy did it not disappoint! I see it as bridge between the lost generation and the beats. Relentlessly sad but with an air of true tenderness towards the characters.
A great collection of short stories that illustrate the underbelly of the American Dream. I definitely recommend it.
Really liked this book. Kind of like Burrows meets Tom Waits. Excellent.
You'd be hard-pressed to find a better collection of "Chicago" short stories, dripping with realism from the streets. Algren has been there, done that, and he knows a lot.
