https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75495.The_Bridge
Oh Fathers, forgive me, for I have sinned!
I've wanted to indulge and drink in the shining baroque myths of Hart Crane for so long.
I've only done so now, after watching the James Franco film a while back.
So I've been picking at it for a while since then.This is a broad mythical poem, somewhere between Walt Whitman and Ezra Pound.
Modern.
Symbols and myths and meanings.
A fantastic use of metaphor, although it's almost incomprehensible at first glance.
You have to go over it several times and the it hits you.Fantastic.
I listen to a lot of pop radio on my pizza delivery job and lately there's a number one song they play be New Direction all of the time called 'The Story of my Life," and the lyric goes 'when I die, those words will be written my stone," and it got me to thinking to what would be written on mine, and I've never much thought of anything, but there is one stanza of poetry that stands out for me above all others and it is from "The Bridge," one of the most complex and ambitious poems I've ever read, kind of like Brian Wilson's "Smiley Smile" project that wanted to sum up America like a Norman Rockwell painting gone psychedelic, but in "The Bridge" Hart Crane was trying to define a great transition in America from the Mayflower and the Indians, to the building of the Brooklyn Bridge (and how prophetic given Brooklyn's rise as the literary captial of America), but unlike "Smiley Smile" this was released and I'm not sure if many people read it, or not, but its impact will be felt throughout American literature.
Crane's verse in this section goes from daring Futurism—Thine eyes bicarbonated white by speed, O Skygak, seeHow from thy path above the levin's lanceThou sowest doom thou has nor time nor chanceTo reckon—as thy stilly eyes partakeWhat alcohol of space…!—to moving tribute: "yes, Walt, / Afoot again, and onward without halt,— / Not soon, nor suddenly,—no, never let go / My hand / in yours, / Walt Whitman— / so—""Three Songs" gives three glimpses into different aspects of American life and desire, most notably a garish poem set in a burlesque theater ("Yet, to the empty trapeze of your flesh, / O Magdalene, each comes back to die alone"), and "Quaker Hill" provides an Eliotic (even unfortunately anti-Semitic) elegy over the decay from Quaker to commercial values in American life: "This was the Promised Land," the speaker laments, before noting an "ancient" table purchased at a cut rate by "Powitzky" at "Adams' auction." Penultimately is "The Tunnel," a Homeric/Virgilian/Dantean subway katabasis where the poet, who had earlier soared with Whitman, now travels underground with Poe:And why do I often meet your visage here, Your eyes like agate lanterns—on and on Below the toothpaste and the dandruff ads?
Like Whitman, Crane focuses not only on the present day but seeks to connect it with the future/all human experience, and Crane’s work is obviously meant to be a “bridge” to the past of American history/mythology as well.
“bridge” the land, the ugly history behind Westward Expansion and the dark realities of forced cultural/religious assimilation are the real repeated threads from human history.The role of the river throughout sections of The Bridge was interesting, and I think one possible interpretation might be that Crane lets the river function as a symbol of the steady flow of (past/present/future) human lives and stories.
Hart Crane, como poeta americano, descende directamente de Walt Whitman e Emily Dickinson (parece que também descende de Ezra Pound mas não conheço, por enquanto, para o confirmar).
Deste modo, ao ler o poema em inglês, apenas necessitei de verificar o significado de algumas palavras na página ao lado (algumas das quais sacrificadas ao sentido do poema).Tendo vivido a sua juventude nos anos 20 do século passado, Hart Crane absorveu todo a dinâmica modernista americana, se bem que com menos entusiasmo que Walt e (bem) mais entusiasmo que Emily.Tal como nos seus antecessores, não fica preso à métrica nem à rima (ainda que se aproxime desta foneticamente).

Swift peal of secular light, intrinsic MythWhose fell unshadow is death’s utter wound,—O River-throated—iridescently upborneThrough the bright drench and fabric of our veins; With white escarpments swinging into light, Sustained in tears the cities are endowedAnd justified conclamant with ripe fieldsRevolving through their harvests in sweet torment.Añado que esta edición en texto bilingüe publicada en Pre-textos me resultó particularmente lograda :)
A Visionary American PoemI have been reading the Library of America's newly-published edition of Hart Crane's (1899- 1932) complete poems.
But I find both Frank's and Vogler's reviews suggestive and illuminating.Crane first conceived the project of a long poem on the Brooklyn Bridge in 1923.
More than that, it has long won a place in my heart.Hart Crane wrote "The Bridge" as an answer to the pessimism and despair of T.S. Eliot's poem "The Waste Land." Crane wanted to create a vision of hope for modern life and a secular myth for the United States.
This collection contains some of the most incredible poetry this side of Whitman.
Phenomenal! Hart Crane's poetry feels like a distinct link between Walt Whitman and the Beats. Powerful work that is very deep in the American vein.
Here Hart Crane’s epic and totally unreadable poem is annotated with copious footnotes in a font size so tiny it is almost impossible to read them on a bumpy municipal bus which is where I do most of my reading.
If you can read them, they do throw some light on the material although many of the notes are pure conjecture (“perhaps by this he is referring to T.S. Eliot’s coffee spoons in the Wasteland”).
Most interesting are the direct conversational quotes of Crane himself, which reveal him to be deeply obsessed with the importance of his work, a pedestal high enough that the fall from it may have led to his suicide.
There is an overall theme of the journey of America from it's foundation to the Jazz Age. The cycle starts with with a very abstract homage to the Brooklyn Bridge: And Thee, across the harbor, silver pacedAs though the sun took step of thee yet leftSome motion ever unspent in thy stride,—Implicitly thy freedom staying thee!and ends similarly:Unspeakable Thou Bridge to Thee, 0 Love.Thy pardon for this history, whitest Flower, O Answerer of all,- Anemone,-Now while thy petals spend the suns about us, hold - (O Thou whose radiance doth inherit me) Atlantis,- hold thy floating singer late!But in between, there were many images, but very little concrete that I can point to.
I read the annotated version, which is a must. But now I know in order to fully understand the poem, I need to read Ovid, Dante, Virgil, Blake, Shelly, Whitman (at least "Leaves of Grass" and "Song of Myself"), Eliot's "The Waste Land", Plato's "Symposium", Ulysses, Paradise Lost, the complete autobiography of Isadora Duncan, The Rime of the Ancient Mariner, some Edgar Allen Poe, some Baudelaire, specifically "The Albatross", and then go back to this. No.. not really. But consider that a plug for the annotated version.
Literally the only reason I'm not giving this a one star rating is because I enjoyed the Tunnel. I feel like I'm missing something given that this is highly rated. I felt the author was being unnecessarily pretentious throughout. I don't know, maybe I will come back to it later down the line and change my view. Given that Hart was supposedly inspired by TS Eliot's the Wasteland, which I'm about to read next to get a comparison, I am not filled with the utmost confidence for what is to come.
Seeing the title of this work arise on my GoodReads screen, I am reminded of the quiet little hells created in graduate school seminars by syllabi of required reading. I bet I haven't thought of this work in three decades. For good reason.
I got absolutely nothing out of Hart Crane's "The Bridge." Though it was a short book, it took me awhile to finish because it was so boring, obscure, and over-written.There were points where I wondered if Crane was engaging in parody, because the style was so over-the-top, rather like that of a nineteenth-century orator, but no, it seems he actually intended to write in that manner.
Hart Crane’s American epic “The Bridge” is one of the most complex pieces of poetry I have ever tackled.
In it he attempts to sum up some elusive truth about the nature of America, from Powhattan’s Daughter to the Brooklyn Bridge, it spans space and time.
However, because he writes with his own theory of personal metaphor, the underlying meaning of the pieces is often obscured and I think on some level it lacks the philosophical weight of T.S. Eliot’s Wasteland.
I read these poems with a dictionary close at hand, but through it I have learned many new and rich terms which I have used in my own poetry and prose.
The stars have grooved our eyes with old persuasionsOf love and hatred, birth,— surcease of nations. . .But who has held the heights more sure than thou,O Walt! — Ascensions of thee hover in me nowAs thou at junctions elegiac, there, of speedWith vast eternity, dost wield the rebound seed!The competent loam, the probably grass,— travailOf tides awash the pedestal of Everest, failNot less than thou in pure impulse inbredTo answer deepest soundings! O, upward from the deadThou bringest tally, and
The stars have grooved our eyes with old persuasionsOf love and hatred, birth,— surcease of nations. . .But who has held the heights more sure than thou,O Walt! — Ascensions of thee hover in me nowAs thou at junctions elegiac, there, of speedWith vast eternity, dost wield the rebound seed!The competent loam, the probably grass,— travailOf tides awash the pedestal of Everest, failNot less than thou in pure impulse inbredTo answer deepest soundings! O, upward from the deadThou bringest tally, and a pact, new boundOf living brotherhood!
I had read some of Hart Crane's poetry before The Bridge, and was impressed, but not blown-away.
I started reading The Bridge as part of my dissertation research and found it to be, quite frankly, THE epic poem of the Machine Age in the United States.The Bridge of the title is New York's Brooklyn Bridge.
For Crane it is a metaphor for both the dehumanizing effect of modernity and the hope for change.
It leads both from Brooklyn (where Crane lived while he wrote the poem) to the sweaty, noisy, dirty, greedy streets of Manhattan, and from the isolated self to the rest of the world and back again.A brilliant poem.
Since first hearing its title, spoken aloud, that initial recommendation, i feel as if this book has had a very profound & very mysterious influence on me. One of those rarities. I do my best to sit down with it at least once per year, and am only writing these little words, today, as a reminder to myself to find the time to properly, and truthfully, sit down with it, now, or soon, once again. Oh, Hart Crane, everybody.
I don't think it's an important Modernist work for most. The hermetic closeness of Crane is there, of course, but it wavers from incredibly grandiose and memorable (the Proem, which might be one of his best) to boring and flavorless density. It never felt like a coherent whole to me. I don't think he overstepped his bounds; I just think his vision was wavering.Recommended if you liked White Buildings.
I wish these stars could be as bright as those chords between the Brooklyn Bridge in the final poem, "Atlantis." This is a passage, and this time through the book I truly felt the Whitman ebullience, and sensibility. I absolutely love the long passage through the first half of the book that finally ends in "Indiana" looking at a "homeless squaw." How is it that has a greater glory than a field with fifty American flags flying?
The Bridge gets left out of the discussion of "The Modernist Long Poem" sometimes but it shouldn't. WCW thought poems should be machines but he was no machinist. Hart Crane worked in a factory, he understood machines, mechanization, reproducibility more innately than WCW, Pound, etc...& it shows here--his engines shot thru w/spirit, candy, American flags, David Berman, "Candy Jail" etc.
Not sure how I got this far down the road without reading anything excerpts long ago in college of this critical "bridge" between 19th century and modern poetry, with its ringing echoes of Melville, Emerson, Whitman and Frost and its astonishing flights of the modern.
I love poetry, but I struggle with some of them. This one just went over my head. Read it for class and I can't wait to discuss it to see if it makes it clearer for me. Some of the poems I did enjoy in this collection, such as The Dance. But as a whole, I just didn't get it.
A challenging, flawed but thrilling long poem. Weakened by obscurity at some points and sentimentality at others, when this long poem does hit its elegiac heights it's like nothing else. A deeply felt modernist masterpiece in the tradition of Whitman.
--Hart-throb
if you're going to read this ridiculous poem, you should read the Lawrence Kramer version with even more ridiculous footnotes.
This is the correct edition that I read. I searched Isbn 0871402254. It contained 76 pages, not the number posted in the listing on this site.
811 C8897b 1970
