https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/648083.The_Crusades
This is combination of two books. For whatever reason, the first book is much more exciting and is about the first Crusade. I found myself re-reading certain passages. The siege of Antioch was a highlight. The second half reads more like a High School text book with only the introduction of Richard the Lionheart bringing some excitement. Overall, the first half is a 4.5 rating and the second half is about a 3.
Great historical fiction. Good read. Recommended
An amazingly detailed history of the First Crusade. Anyone who is a medieval history buff needs to read this.
An interesting historical telling of the First Crusade and its aftermath.
Lamb tells the story in such a way that the characters and setting come to life - we are there with the Crusaders on their journey.
This is not a straight historical account (and has some inaccuracies as I understand), but certainly gives the listener a flavor of the time in all its religious fervor and bloodiness.
I particularly liked the description of how they built the siege towers.
This is a book that I could listen to again.Griffin's narration seemed somewhat stilted to me.
This is quite an old book now (originally published in 1930 I think) and the years haven't been particularly kind to it - it sounds very dated.
It's the kind of dense history that I want to continually dip back a few pages, to make sure I know which person Lamb is referring to, and I like to have maps and lineage charts to refer to.While I find reading dated history texts a reasonable activity, having it read to me isn't as much fun and I have to say, in this case the narrator is really quite dreadful.
Complete one sided and biased account of First crusade. While story telling and writing style is excellent, his glorification of cannibalism, massacre and rape highlights his biased views of events. While he tries to cover up every wrong step taken by crusades and he constantly tries to degrade every success and actions of Muslims.
Great and horrifying overview of the crusades. Jesus fucking Christ they ate people to survive! These wars were so much more horrible than I could have ever imagined.
The crusades are one the more bizarre military campaigns of Western Civilization.
And where the barbarian hordes helped defeat the mighty Roman Empire the crusaders, though unorganized, illiterate and ill-equipped succeed in achieving the impossible and actually conquered Jerusalem against far greater odds and numerical superiority.
The crusades illustrates the power of religious faith wedded with military conquest and how truly potent it is.
The crusaders wouldn't give up, they didn't know when they should have considered themselves defeated.
They set out with 250,000 and by the time they conquered Jerusalem had only 30,000 left.
If you have any interest in Crusader history you'll enjoy this. If not, you'll probably be bored. The book really focuses solely on the First Crusade and the capture of Antioch and Jerusalem. There are a lot of characters involved naturally, so it really requires you to pay attention. It doesn't propose any radical theory or new revelations, just primary a recap of the events that led to the Crusade, and what happends during the Crusade.
Made it about a third of the way through. Lamb's style is breathless forward motion. This would be interesting if the book wasn't mired in the historiography of the time it was written - focusing on larger than life characters, and almost solely on the Western Europeans. Might be OK for other people, but I couldn't bring myself to enjoy it more than I would a more serious history of the Crusaders.
When Islam and Christianity clashed in the Middle Ages, the pope established the Crusades to protect Christian pilgrims to the Holy Lnd and to help drain off the younger sons of the nobility in an effort to prevent bandit knights. This is a history of those Crusades.
Marvelous!
Good story of Crusaders.
