https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18879.The_Belgariad_Vol_Two
This is surprisingly different from the first volume.
The pacing is a lot more consistent and the story feels stronger.
These ones are also different because they have a lot more POVs than the first ones.
I've never liked Ce'Nedra but it was good to see her finally grow up a bit.A quick word about the women in this series, though - they're manipulative.
For the good of the men, of course.
Especially since Ce'Nedra is a spoiled little princess who throws tantrums to get her way.
Despite this annoyance, I actually really love this series.
This is some seriously good reading.
Thank gawd it's over.Now, I don't regret reading this...
Sad thing is, I would've enjoyed this series so much at 12-14 years old.
Much older now, I can still like The Belgariad as a light story: tired, drunk, it's still readable (so add a half-star, if it's a main concern for you).
As a LoTR clone, it does an OK job, being easy to read (look at all the 'Tom Swifties' though), easy to understand, easy to follow.
Like your slightly racist and sexist grandfather who lived through a different Zeitgeist, Eddings will still warm your heart.
I overall loved these books.They have a nice flow of action,adventure and humor.You really get to know the characters and can easaly pick favorates and conect with them.The first book however is a little boring and can be hard to get in to because it has a lot of background to it. These books have a very good plot that is very diferent from alot of other books.The Belgariad is one of the top fantacy books and has an AMAZING ending infact it is the best ending of any book I have ever read.
4.5/5The rich, life-like characters and climatic, very satisfying ending make this a wonderful tale that will live with me forever!The only thing I'd say is that the books could be abridged a bit, as there's often some excessive information that isn't always relevant throughout all five books.
I don't have much to add to my review on Volume 1 of this series, because I just love it. You have to like a somewhat lighter type of fantasy, though - don't expect a level of fantasy like George Martin's A Song of Ice and Fire, because then you will be disappointed. Eddings' books are a nice, easy read that nevertheless have all the elements of a good fantasy series, in my opinion. I love these books. On to the Malloreon.
A really good sequel to the first. I loved the part where (spoiler!) Aunt Pol marries Durnik, especially because in the first book Garion asks Pol, "Why don't you marry Durnik? I think it would be an awfully good idea!" I also enjoy that the author mentions that Marag finally stops crying when Taiba and Relg wed.
It's classic fantasy.
Classic good versus evil.
Love the characters, because they have so much character!
I think one thing I loved so much is how the author let the wizards age thousands of years old.
This is very interesting to see what you do all those years with yourself.And then it's always so interesting and kind of funny how these fantasy writers try to deal with the the spiritual, how to explain God, how to explain creation, how to explain the concept of morality and where it came from.
It's just fiction but I love to read it.
While the idea of Garion being pushed along by the prophecy is fine to some degree, and certainly an interesting theme for the early books, I couldn't help but wish that he had eventually taken more of a personal interest in his fight with Torak.
The only other issue is that, while the massive power of the Orb is established multiple times, we never see it used besides I the fight with Torak.
It remains on Garion's back for more of less two whole books.
However, despite these complaints I enjoyed the book.
If you're looking for classic fantasy, I couldn't recommend the Belgariad more.
Mostly I grew so annoyed with his portrayal of women being childish and conniving with their main goal being to annoy men and throwing tantrums when they don't get their way.
The portrayal of some of the other characters also felt inconsistent.
An example: some who were bloodthirsty in the first volume now were exasperated by others that were wanting to fight.There is also a fairly big issue regarding race in this book that may have been okay in the past, but really goes against the tide of today's social justice.
Each race seems to have an overwhelming flaw that extends to all the people without exception.
OH MY LORD. This, as of today, is one of my favorite fantasy aeries of all time. Just crazy, the ending was fantastic, it wrapped things up, but didn't really wrap things up, it left several plotlines open for the Mallorean. I just love these characters, they're all so different, flawed and hilarious all at the same time.. Coming out of it, I actually don't have a favorite character, I really liked all of the characters, my opinions on them changed as I went, but wow, this whole series took me almost three months.. I'm definitely starting the Mallorean...
I loved the first volume as i felt that everything fell into place. This book however just felt like the author was rushed and/or was restricted in telling the story. So much of the book was little encounters that I didn't think progressed the story too much and didn't have a lot of detail to them. Luckily it looks as though the sequel The Malloreon is much better so far. He even mentions at the beginning how he has less restrictions.
I've read this series at least a dozen times. As I've gotten older I've noticed more and more questionable issues with it (stereotyping, gender and race issues, where the heck are the queer people), but its tropeyness and its familiarity makes it wonderful brain comfort food when I'm sick and tired.
I found the storyline slightly more interesting in these final parts of this epic. By now, I was invested in the characters and although the dialogue wasn't quite as captivating as in the initial volume, it was still a highlight. Recommended.
Slow and boring with the dumbest hero in fantasy. Confusing and endless army preparation for a final battle between Garion and Torak that lasts less than one paragraph. Bitchy females seem to be in charge of airhead males. Light, young-adult, reading.
Well, not so good like the 3 first books. Still sillier sometimes. The author doesnt know anything about tactics, but of course, it is Fantasy. I read it through, and that wasnt hard.
Well, not so good like the 3 first books. Still sillier sometimes. The author doesn´t know anything about tactics, but of course, it is Fantasy. I read it through, and that wasn´t hard.
Thoroughly enjoyed. I first read this around 30 years ago, and it's still as much fun as it was then. Great characters, epic tale... would be great as a GoT-style series!
Read this again and still love the series!
I found volume two to be better than volume one. I am glad that it ended on a positive note. It was a realistic positive note - people died, as they do in war, but good vanquished evil.
The BEST Fantasy series ever!!
a little less gripping than the very interesting 123
Not as solid as the first three books, but still wildly entertaining.
I lost interest pretty quick, but it wasn't bad, really.
Omnibus edition, reviewing separately.Castle of Wizardry:On the one hand, there are parts of this book I really like - Garion's ascension in general is suitably legendary in feel, counterbalanced by his bewilderment at a role he is in fact totally unprepared for.
Twenty years later, I'm sure someone could write the exact same plot without making me twitch, but this one has its problems.Which brings me to one minor sidebar - Barak and Merel.
Now, the question of agency is actually part of the thesis of the book - can you make meaningful choices if everything is foreordained?
One of the two big things that stood out to me that I enjoyed, were the political games that got played later on in The Belgariad, especially once the big war started going on, and some leaders had to leave their kingdoms to be run by their wives.
I don't want to spoil the story by saying more than that, but let's just say that it gets interesting to see how the wives take care of things.
This really ramps up around the time all the political maneuvering goes on during the preparation for war, and it is what got me to rush through and finish the story one evening.
Continuant cette histoire merveilleuse qu'est las Belgariad, ce recueille contient les deux dernières partie et je vous dis qu'après avoir lu les trois première il est presque impossible de pouvoir résister à lire ce qui suit.En plus, plus on avance, plus l'histoire devient intense et plus les personnages se mouille dans cette guerre.
Certaines scènes peuvent paraître gratuite, mais pour le reste ça ne fait que nous faire entrer encore plus dans cette épopée classique écrite dans les années 70-80.J'ai pas mal dit ce que j'avais à dire dans ma première critique, donc je ne m'éterniserai pas.
And maybe, just maybe, if I had been much younger, I might have enjoyed this series, but I think I can safely say it would not be one that really stuck with me as I got older.I could write an essay probably, about why this work as a whole failed for me but I'll sum it up as follows: Characters = Flat.
The hand of the author is all over this work, which is not necessarily a bad thing, but does not work when writing in a limited point of view.
I didn't read the individual novels as they were published; my first encounter with Eddings took place via the collected series.Short version: a funny, scary, adventurous, deep story, told well.Long version: if you've only read a few fantasy series, as I have, it's hard to pigeonhole this.
There's the same kind of merging of myth and history, unified in heroic legends, although it's not nearly as deep or detailed as Tolkien (and that's probably a good thing for the casual reader).
This is an altogether lighter read than any of the LOTR books, and it doesn't build to the same kind of dread.
For five books you get about as much reading as Tolkien's three.
I remember my brother and my dad reading Eddings's books when I was younger, although I never bothered to follow suit until recently.
I think I probably would have loved this story when I was younger.Yeah, it's aimed at about a 9th- or 10th-grade reading level.
This isn't the type of story that needs to be subjected to literary criticisms.
So what if it doesn't have the same literary merit of Tolkein's epic?
I think I've done a full reread of this series every two years or so since I read it when I was twelve.It just keeps getting better and better and better.And yes, I realize there are parts that are super ~problematic, but I'm not going to let that spoil something that I've loved so completely for so long.
It is forever my favorite and I love it with all my heart.Even on the fifteenth reread.
Garion and Ce'Nedra were boring and childish (which I suppose is accurate since they're only 16 or so.) Their "relationship" really developed out of thin air and felt like just because it had to happen (prophecy, treaties, yada yada...) that it did happen.
They mostly acted like dumb teenagers: Ce'Nedra was stereotypically a spoiled princess brat and Garion was borderline emo.
Overall I was pleased with how the series progressed and ended (a bit of the war stragizing and troop gathering was a little tedious to read) but the lack of strength in these two main characters really detracted from any attachment I felt toward the books.
