https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328416.A_Proper_Marriage
Indeed Lessing's entire depiction of motherhood is an unsentimental one – Martha is determined to be independent, and though she loves her daughter, the child, like the husband, is in the final analysis an impediment to her freedom.
In the books, the young and idealistic girl gets married, has a baby – she at once turns into something quite different; and she is perfectly happy to spend her whole life bringing up children with a tedious husband.I was riveted by my exposure to the mores and prejudices of this peculiar time and place; and even in its most boring moments, that livewire feeling of access to another person's mind, another person's thought processes, kept me hooked.
This novel follows  Martha Quest  and personally I advise readers to come to this after reading the beginning of Martha's story. The tone of self reproach (taking Martha to be an avatar of the author) is perhaps a little softer here, and the character seems more psychologically independent from her creator and a stronger individual, although she is still written as someone at the mercy of the currents she strays into (making her tale a perfect canvas to sketch the contours of a history). Once ag
I love how she develops the scene, the atmosphere, the tension, to emphasise the significance of some ostensibly banal exchange.One thing that connects with me is Martha's painful attention to her own body; this is distinctly female writing, capturing the self-regarding aspect of feminine sexuality encultured by the trope of the female body as a prize.
Unlike in Martha Quest, where Lessing sketches the White character through appearance in author voice, here she uses an English army doctor's observations to underline the key trait of wounded entitlement that Martha also observes in Douglas.
Even some people I know who consider themselves "free" are the ones who travel the least, leave their homes the least, have the fewest adventures, and are just stuck in some other self-created confinement.As the story moves along, we see Martha start to move away from the expected responsibilities and back to what she knew as as a free-spirited child in the first book - responsibility to herself.
Lessing non ritiene interessante raccontare le circostanze che hanno portato a questa unione [invece io avrei voluto saperlo, ma andiamo avanti.) Martha e Douglas sono una giovane coppia come tante in una cittadina della Rhodesia (una colonia dell’Impero Britannico, l’odierno Zimbabwe) che si sta preparando con entusiasmo ed eccitazione alla seconda guerra mondiale.
L’apartheid è talmente radicato nella mentalità coloniale che neanche nelle riunioni degli aspiranti comunisti se ne può parlare e una recita in cui cantano dei bambini di colore viene bollata come un attacco ai valori della Patria e dei Bianchi.La vita della colonia appare abbastanza insulsa e vuota: il pomeriggio cocktails dalle famiglie in vista della città, poi i giovani si recano negli alberghi a ballare e ubriacarsi sino alle prime luci dell’alba.
Martha Quest.
During this work, and the previous novel, I disliked Martha.
Every gentle or humane action, or emotion, is crushed, either by the object, or by Martha's own determination to avoid sentimentality.
Martha is thirsty for passion and a sense of purpose, but no cause, or person, can carry the burden of her idealism for long.
I found an odd respect for Martha.
Youth is less fearful of the results of their actions, so her courage is fueled by optimism and self-confidence.
Martha has a tendency to go with the flow, then to become highly critical.
This to me was very much a feminist book.
A book about a woman with visions and passions who hasn't yet discovered her own voice or strength.
It seems like things are just happening to her while her inner thoughts rebel quietly.
It could be a frustrating read if it wasn't so realistic.
Martha is not a hero, she is woman living in a turbulent time when people are mostly lost and the future is uncertain to say the least.Martha's often contradictory feelings and thoughts were very familiar to me from my own early 20s.
Κυκλοφόρησε στα Ελληνικά ως "Ένας καλός γάμος", εκδόσεις Οδυσσέας.
Love Doris Lessing. Can't wait to read the next one.
She is rather young in this second book of Lessing's 5-volume Children of Violence series so perhaps those qualities should not be entirely unexpected.
She accepted the communist propaganda (as did Lessing in her younger life) that it, communism, would lead to a better world.
Of course in those days the evils of the Russian communists were not so well exposed as they are today, so perhaps in a later volume Martha will reject communism as Lessing did.
Oh, as a final note, I hope that most, if not all, consider Martha's to be anything but A Proper Marriage.
I read this immediately after reading George Eliot's Middlemarch, and was struck that this is in the same tradition, in fact that it could be considered [Middlemarch plus eighty years; the theme of the intelligent woman who feels for the underprivileged lower classes and rejects some of the conventions of her time, who enters into a disastrous marriage thinking her husband is similar to her, and struggles against the social conventions that hem her in.
Inizio a dire che è una lettura stra-consigliatissima!La Lessing ha voluto raccontarci una fiaba con
I wish Lessing's work was more well known in the U.S.True story: I was reading this on my lunch break at a temp job for an ad agency in NYC some years ago. One of the executives walked by, a man, and asked, "Is that a marriage manual? Are you getting married?" He was trying to be friendly, so I tried not to sledgehammer him too badly. I just said, "No, it's a novel by a famous author." Duh.
This is a good story - book 2 of a series. Interesting observations about life in South Africa.
I loved this book. The descriptive passages were fantastic. I enjoyed the scene where Martha walks through her pantry enjoying the products around her.
I guess I'm still naive enough to be surprised that Lessing's characters had such "modern" problems lo those 60 years ago. A slow, thoughtful book.
Since I'm currently reading several of the author's novels, I may be a little biased.
While it's not my favorite Doris Lessing novel so far, it is nevertheless quite remarkable.
Near the end the "action" seems to drag a bit with a deeper dive into the political climate of the time, but the author has a plan and carries it out well thus rewarding the reader.
I can at least recommend for others to perhaps do what I plan: read as many Doris Lessing works as possible, and come away much better for having done so.
Martha è una ragazza di 20 anni che si sposa con Douglas, giovane di cui non è innamorata, ma di cui è già incinta.
La protagonista vive la gravidanza e i primi anni di vita di Caroline con ansia e frustrazione: si pente di essersi sposata e teme di non provare amore per sua figlia.
Si avvicina ai gruppi politici di sinistra e aderisce al progetto di formare una sezione del Partito Comunista (si innamora di William, attivista più giovane di lei).
Martha alla fine trova la forza di lasciare Douglas (e Caroline) e andare via di casa.
I wish I had read this at 19 or 20. Still, a fascinating ride through the minds and lives of Martha and her contemporaries. It is specifically of its time and place (but also much more broadly relatable). This is book #2 in the series. The description of political awakening probably works better if you've already read the first book (I haven't yet). I look forward to seeing how she develops it.
Accidentally picked this book up in a hostel. It's part of a series and is a great depiction of a woman's life and choices in the war period in South Africa. One of the only books I've ever read where an author spends a whole chapter describing the experience of labour. It's excellent for giving the female point of view and what it means to marry because society expects you to. And of course, Lessing's language is beautiful.
Il libro ha tutti gli elementi per risultare una bellissima lettura: un Sudafrica diviso dall'apartheid, una storia di sentimenti e un periodo storico pieno di fermento. Purtroppo però la lentezza del racconto a tratti è ingestibile. Per trecento pagine non succede praticamente nulla..Dovrei forse leggere il seguito della saga?
Un interessante quadro della vita coloniale durante la Seconda Guerra Mondiale, in cui la società non ne esce bene: giovani uomini infantili e giovani donne deluse e scontente.In assoluto troppo prolisso.
They say each book in the series stands on its own, but you’d be doing yourself a disservice to read Martha Quest and then not read A Proper Marriage. I liked it even more.
It's hard to think of many other books that deal with this subject matter in such minute detail.This is all placed against the backdrop of WWII and the conflicted relations between the colonialists and the English soldiers.
In many respects he is the old guard of the town and reflective of the colonialist attitude, yet his interest in the leftist factions and support of progressive positions towards the Colored/native population makes him far more complex.Which gets me back to Lessing's psychological concerns and much of what I think is so engaging about her writing.
All of the characters are as ambivalent of Martha, though perhaps not always as self-aware or complex.
As if there had been no break between chapters, the second of Lessing’s ‘Children of Violence’ series finds Martha newly married and back from a honeymoon invaded by her husband Douglas’ pack of friends from the club.She adjusts to marriage through the ignorance of her natural inclination.
The first time we really see her father talk of something other than the horrific memory of the trences of World War One.The old civil servant’s fascination with Martha is at times sweet, desperate and rather sexy.He is the man through whom we see her cross the threshold of marriage into motherhood, and then, defying everyone, keep walking further still.
Martha Quest’s continuation in the Lessing series, “A Proper Marriage” was for me, a hard and painful read.
Another woman bleeding under the crushing repression of society, this time the woman as a privileged white citizen in a colony in Africa, the tale is the second of the series and describes teenage marriage.
Time wise, the long winding road for Martha offers me via the meticulous prose much anxiety ridden moments as a reader.
Equally stunning is the end, the simple idea is that you can walk out, just walk out, but that reason of being is so much much harder to assert, and defines the acceptance that Martha ultimately embraces, that she cannot partake in the world where she grew up.
Mas temos também um olhar agudo sobre um país colonial, o racismo, as tendências políticas, a proliferação do movimento comunista, a vida burguesa - e também um relato histórico riquíssimo sobre a Segunda Guerra mundial, mostrando como as pessoas da época enxergavam o conflito e seus participantes.Vale notar que o livro, embora bem traduzido, ao invés do título original, que seria "Um casamento apropriado", algo com muitos significados e que engloba muitos fatores, foi traduzido como "Um casamento sem amor".
In this second of the five volume series Lessing continues her intimate, kitchen sink portrayal of t
Continuing story of Martha Quest following her through beginning of marriage and birth of daughter.
By the end she finds that her spirit demands independence as she begins to assert her own identity and leaves her husband.
Doris Lessing is a master of characterization as demonstrated in the depiction of the emotional and intellectual development of the main character Martha Quest.
Actually this mastery is equally demonstrated in Lessing's depiction of the other characters who undergo the changes life brings but cannot be said to gain wisdom thereby.

Just as I was reading this novel, Doris Lessing was awarded the Nobel Prize for literature.
This is the sequel of the story of Martha Quest in the Children of Violence series.
Martha, now married, becomes the mother of Caroline and starts asking herself questions about whether or not she has made the right choices.
She does not understand the society she is living in, where the kaffirs are not well-considered, where people are so influenced by propaganda, just as WWII is breaking out.Was she right to marry?
Did she really love her husband Douglas?
Does she even love her daughter?
