https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2390800.The_Monsters
A bizarre murder in Doc Savage's office leads him and his compadres first to a strange structure outside of New York City and then to rural Michigan, where somebody is creating monsters. It sounds very comic bookish, and I guess it is, but it is a fun read.
One of the more fantastic of the Doc Savage novels, this one involves men of enormous size who are to be used to rob and destroy.
How they got to be enormous and how they were to be unleashed is part of the story of The Monsters.
The Fabulous Five are all present, and for once Renny's skills are put to a practical use, though it means he has to stay behind and be an engineer instead of get in a fight.
It's clear in this story that Lester Dent may be starting to regret that he gave Doc five aides.
Anyway, the story is fun though about as far-fetched as any of the Doc Savage stories.
Another adventure with Doc Savage and his five associates. I found this interesting for the mention of pinheads and the breed. Not sure why that needed to be stressed. Another damsel in distress is saved. Lots of shooting, explosions, destruction, and Savage saves the day. Always a fun read, but nothing more than brain candy.
Another good Doc adventure that I read back in the 70s.
The first Doc Savage story appeared in 1933 and the series ran in pulp and later digest format into 1949.
The characterizations were far richer than was common for the pulps; his five associates and their sometimes-auxiliary, Doc's cousin Pat, and the pets Chemistry and Habeas Corpus, all had very distinctive characteristics and their byplay was frequently more entertaining that the current adventure-of-the-month.
The settings were also fascinating: Doc's Fortress of Solitude, the Hidalgo Trading Company (which served as a front for his armada of vehicles), and especially the mysterious 86th floor headquarters all became familiar haunts to the reader, and the far-flung adventures took the intrepid band to exotic and richly-described locations all over the world.
The Doc Savage books have always been my favorite entertainments...
It felt to me like Lester Dent had a smash-bang idea for a story, carefully crafted the first few chapters, then ran out of time and had to finish in a week.Maybe that's because the identity of the "mystery" villain was never in any doubt, or because this novel, even more than most of the series, appeared to need a copy editor (there's a lot of redundancy, and a few sentences are nearly incomprehensible).
Or maybe I just picked the wrong time to read it; I've been awfully busy this week, and could only read this in small chunks.
Doc, along with the Fabulous Five and a steel-haired woman, battles gigantic genetically-engineered monsters before they could spree terror in major american cities. You know the drill.A good entry, with eerie scenes and - finally - foes that could make short work of the Man of Bronze. This adventure was adapted in a very famous early Batman story, but Doc faced it all long before Batman existed - so it's like pop culture archeology.I don't remember Johhnny or Long Tom saying a word in all the book.
Don't have to really worry about spoilers here. The title, the cover illustration by James Bama of Doc Savage in the grasp of a giant hand, pretty much tells all you need to know. The story starts in the backwoods of northern Michigan when a trapper is crushed and his cabin destroyed. The news says it was a tornado, but the trapper's neighbor knows better. The trapper had asked his neighbor to seek out a detective if he should be killed. And what better detective to seek out than Doc Savage? Another rip-roaring good yarn.
Of all the pulp era heroes few stand out above the crowd, Doc Savage is one of these. With his 5 aides and cousin he adventures across the world. Fighting weird menaces, master criminals and evil scientists Doc and the Fab 5 never let you down for a great read. These stories have all you need; fast paced action, weird mystery, and some humor as the aides spat with each other. My highest recommendation.
This was the most memorable of the half dozen Doc Savage books that I read when I was a boy. Doc Savage focused on fine tuning himself every morning and led a team comprised of gifted scientists and intellectuals. The cover illustrations are excellent. The stories are easy to read, action packed, and designed for young readers wanting adventure.
read in summer of 1966
Good entry in the series.
read 02.18.85read 09.05.85
