https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359195.Lucifer_Vol_1
(Though I have a hard time imagining how a comparison to Sandman could be derogatory, now that I think of it.) Not only does the series use some of the characters created in Sandman (Lucifer, most notably.) and exist in the same cosmology, but the shape of the story is the same.
It's a loose narrative that follows Lucifer around and indulges in many small tangents and vignettes along the way, introducing new characters and broadening the reader's knowledge of the world.
That said, trying to emulate Sandman isn't particularly notable, (who wouldn't want steal some of the tricks there?) What *is* impressive, is how well Mike Carey makes this story structure work.
But Carey’s distinctive execution makes the story his own, inflating characters with sheer weight using an air so different from Gaiman (though not necessarily better).I’ve once commended Gaiman for his exceptional interpretation of the biblical figure of the Fallen One. Carey didn’t let me down either, as he is doing a good job of keeping Lucifer an interesting antihero—a character that readers would actually care for.
But the point here is that the molding is good, making Lucifer worthy of being the title character of this series.I’m intrigued by the new characters and it’s forgivable that they need a little bit more of fleshing out since this is just the first volume.
Lucifer, Vol. 1 is not the best graphic novel I've read in the last year or so and not the worst.
Lucifer as a character - well, it's complicated, but not complicated enough to compel me to read the whole series.
I suppose that Carey is trying to add complexity to Lucifer's character, but the lightbringer becomes, in the process .
Maybe I'll pick up a copy of the later volumes and give Carey a chance to grow the character.
Better than reading cheap romance novels, I suppose." Prepare to not be blown away.
Very promising startGaiman's work have tons of his weirdness and charm and it's hard to write spin-off to his series and not look pale in comparison but so far it seems that Lucifer has potential to be as good if not better than Sandman.Illustrator manages to maintain similar style to Sandman but with more detailed illustrations.I think that this is how Sandman series should have looked. This doesn't apply to last issue in this volume who's illustrations are just as bad as Sandman at it's worst.
Hits the ground running. A good start and getting stronger and more intriguing every time I turn the page. Lucifer is far more devilish than I could have imagined.
Frankly, I'm not sure why that is, as in many ways, I think Lucifer surpasses its origin story.
Both boast rich, and mostly independent cosmologies, but whereas for a significant part of its run, Sandman exists as a framework for Gaiman to write any kind of story he wants, Lucifer is surprisingly single-minded in telling the tale of the title character's most recent war against his creator.
Lucifer gets his Macguffin, and we meet the Basanos and Elaine.
But mostly, this book exists so that we can see what a brilliant bastard Lucifer can be.
I really truly enjoy Mike Carey's works... I just found this so boring! Which is guess is consistent, since I found Preludes & Nocturnes boring too...I don't know what I'm missing here, but everything read flat for me. And I know Mike Cary can plot out excitement and write complex characters from having loved The Unwritten, Vol. 1: Tommy Taylor and the Bogus Identity and  The Girl With All The Gifts, but this just didn't do it for me. Oh well.
Wordy and info dumpy in a not good way.World: The art is solid, it’s not the best type of the era and the framing is fairly standard but it does it’s job.
The magic stuff is done well and pretty representative of the era of comics that this book is from.Story: There are two stories here and a single issue and for the most part they are interesting stories.
I am a fan of world building and I don’t mind info dumps most of the time but this book took it to a whole new level.
The third story a single issue tale with Elaine was good as it didn’t have this problem and was pretty great.
Which is a fascinating counterpoint to the menace that lies just beneath the surface of the interactions between characters.The actual questing and action are almost beside the point in this book - or at least for me, they're not terribly compelling, compared with the mythology of heaven, hell, the world and humanity that Carey teases out over occasional pages.
I have no idea how much of it derives from pre-existing mythologies (religions) and how much Carey imagined himself - but the way he weaves it into the story, and makes it so accessibly interesting, is good enough for me.However the first storyline ends more with a whimper - not a strong punch line.
Tam kde Gaiman "miltonovského" Lucifera v Sandmanovi zanechal (tedy po abdikaci z postu Pána Pekel), tam Carey pokračuje.
Příběhy uvnitř příběhů, kde vše souvisí se vším, byť mnohdy bude spojitost dlouho nejasná, ale nakonec to do sebe vždy zapadne.
Již dopředu budete v jeho slibech hledat nějakou tu "právní kličku", která tam vždy někde ukryta je.
První kniha se skládá ze tří samostatných (ovšem přesto úzce propojených) příběhů.
Navíc je to zajímavé i po grafické stránce, jelikož první z příběhů je jen jakoby načrtnut vodovkami (a nechává tedy hodně prostoru pro představivost), druhý naopak sází na až hnidopišsky detailní (drobno)kresbu a třetí je takový "mignolovský".
man i am so glad i read this now and not ten years agoten years ago i would've known that this series is well liked and highly acclaimed and i would've picked up the next volume because it's supposed to be good right?
and the library has it!
i cannot waste this comics opportunityhappily i am now old and curmedgeonly enough to know that life is too short to read things i don't like.
unless the rest of the series features an abrupt tonal shift -- and feel free to tell me if it does!
I keep picking this up and reading it again because I forgot that I had already read it. Now it is on my read list.
Fast forward to last year and I FINALLY read all of Sandman [although it is still my personal opinion that this series is way better].This is absolutely my favorite graphic novel, probably my favorite 'book' in general [if I'm allowed to count a graphic novel series as a single book lol], and definitely the standard to which I hold up any other stories I read about Lucifer [spoiler alert: they all fall woefully short, with the exception of Glen Duncan's I, Lucifer].
This isn't just a story about Lucifer, but also about everyone around him and they all get their own storylines at some point.But most of all I just love the way that Lucifer is written.
I think my major gripe was the inconsistency. I wish writers would not throw in some new rule right when a character needs the change. You create a world, stick to your own rules. Creativity is great but attempt some type of reasoning or smoothness. Otherwise, I liked this, holds a lot of promise. Lucifer is an extremely interesting character.
This a very bold thing to say, but I adore this volume more than any of the Sandman volumes. That isn’t a bash against Gaian, that’s a testament to what Carey does here.
I did not really get into it.
It wasn't the beginning I was expecting (but it's by Mike Carey and I hope it gets better and better).
^-^ კარგი ყოფილა კომიქსებიც :3 :დდ პერსეპოლისს თუ არ ჩავთვლით,პირველად მქონდა შეხება და მიხარია,რომ სწორედ "ლუციფერით" დავიწყე ^
"Lucifer" is a graphic novel that's a spin-off from Gaiman's incredibly popular "Sandman" series.
This book and series picks up where that left off--in a story arc called "The Morningstar Option", opening with a visit from Amenadiel, an angel of the host to Lucifer to offer him a job for whatever price Lucifer will name.
In his foreword to this tpb, Gaiman states that whenever another comic writer would ask him what he thought should spin-off from "Sandman", he always explicitly replied "Lucifer," which is likely not what any of them wanted to hear, instead hoping that Gaiman would give free rein to one of the Endless.
It sounded so promising: A spinoff of the Lucifer created by the almighty Neil Gaiman in The Sandman.There were parts in the first and last story that were interesting, but the writing felt mostly contrived.
Mike Carey seems to be trying too hard to write like Neil Gaiman, and maybe that's where this story fails.
Maybe, one day I'll give it another chance, but for now, I'm setting it aside.I do like the picture on the back cover with Lucifer giving the finger à la The Flight of the Conchords' style.
Re-read this last evening (June 18, 2013) just for the hell of it (heh)Good stories with nice art.I especially liked the Bolton art from the first story.Although using characters from the pages of Sandman, Carrey manages to weave original tales that transcend its origins.
again, just for the hell of it.My Original Review (still stands) :From the pages of Sandman comes the on-going saga of everybody favorite lil' devil, Lucifer.Yeah, I liked this book.I just wish this series had been given a better format, such as a Deluxe Hardcover, or, at the very least, better paper.
Sandman: Season of Mists leaves Lucifer in a very strange place, and I really couldn't imagine what would happen from there on.
Carey starts off aping Gaiman's style in the first arc, and that doesn't work well.
But after that he breaks free of Gaiman's shadow and starts telling his own story, and it turns out to be a unique and compelling tale in its own right.A confession - I've never particularly liked Christian mythology.
But I must say that Carey's take on Angels, Demons & God was a really fascinating re-imagining of Christian myth; I never imagined he'd try to attempt half the things he did.
Holy moly, this was a great first volume to a series.Mike Carey piqued my interest with his work on current comic "Unwritten", so I thought I should give his old opus a go.
Following in the "literary comic" style of Gaiman's Sandman, "Lucifer" is a good slow burn.
The world lives and breathes, and Heaven and Hell have never been more believable to me.And yet, this volume couldn't be more exciting.
The creator has a mission that only Lucifer can fulfil...
but they're still not exactly on good terms.Lucifer is the ultimate anti-hero.
He's smart, smarmy, and only he knows exactly what he wants.
EDIT: Nečtěte v hromadné dopravě, hrozí, že pohoršíte jistou část spoluobčanů.O seriálu jsem se dozvěděla, když médii proběhlo, že se nějaké svaté matky od rodin snaží ho nechat zrušit, protože prezentuje:"Zlo se svůdnou lidskou tváří". No uznejte, to se prodává samo!Seriál je naprosto boží věc. <3 <3Tak jsem se rozhodla zkusit i předlohu, která ovšem se seriálem nemá nic moc společného... Vadí to? NE! Oboje je naprosto boží! Takhle má člověk dvě boží věci, nejenom jednu!
Mike Carey really knows how to write about magic. There are 2 storylines in this book. The first is kind of lackluster and slow-burning, without a huge payoff. But it's clear that we're just getting started. The second arc really takes off with a fantasy flare, showing just how sinister and deceitful Lucifer can be. Without Hell to manage, he's become a selfish, blonde, single-minded monster in a sharp suit. After all the fables that have been told about the devil, somehow this one still feels fresh. Looking forward to the rest.
Z vedlejší postavy hlavním hrdinou. Hrdinou... no, jak se to vezme :) Při čtení jsem měl celou dobu deja-vu a inspirace Sandmanem jsem se ani na konci sešitu nezbavil. Oproti snovému bohu chybí poetika a i žánr komiksu tu není uplně využit. Je to ale první díl a potenciál tu je. I prvnímu Sandmanovi jsem dal "jen" tři hvětdy. Doufám, že se autor v pokračování trošku odváže. Lucifer má charakter, jeho postavá mě baví a i příběhy jsou zajímavé, ale překročit svůj stín bude těžké.
This book was tough for me.
My favorite story of the three was the last one, the one-shot called Born with the Dead.
Engaging little story.
I found the other two stories in the volume a lot less compelling.
At points my interest dipped almost to zero.The art in the middle section, A Six-Card Spread, was good, fine...
But the first story's art was terribly off-putting to me.
Uninteresting characters in a confusing and boring mythology laden story.
Probably I'm really missing something here - I know a lot of people gave this book a good rating.
I don't know how I didn't know there was a spin-off series about Lucifer from Sandman, but am so glad it was introduced to me, and the first volume loaned to me.
Lucifer was always a really interesting character in Sandman, and it was nice to get an introduction into a series about just him.
It reminded me of Sandman in the way the stories we're all very different and didn't quite allow me to get/keep my bearings, but that they kept me interested.
I'm definitely interested in continuing on with the series, because it started off pretty original and interesting, with that biting look at humanity that Sandman also had.
Ich kannte nur die Serie Lucifer und hatte mir einen ähnlichen Humor erhofft. Leider wurde ich enttäuscht. Die Geschichte hat mit der Fernsehserie wenig gemein und ist streckenweise verwirrend. Zwar sind die einzelnen Abenteuer des gefallenen Engels durchaus spannend, doch die augenzwinkernde Leichtigkeit sucht man hier vergeblich. Der Comic zeichnet ein eher düsteres Bild voller ominöser Prophezeihungen. Auch die Nebenfiguren bleiben sehr flach, was ich insbesondere bei Mazikeen sehr schade fand. Insgesamt hatte ich wohl einfach andere Erwartungen. Dadurch konnte ich die Geschichte nicht richtig genießen.
Att jag började läsa den här serien KAN ha att göra med att jag är lätt besatt av Lucifer på Netflix.... men jag älskade också The Sandman så jag tänkte att det här skulle vara något liknande. Vilket det är. Jag kan inte riktigt bestämma mig vad jag tycker. Jag gillar den här typen av serie men samtidigt är det ganska så pretentiös. Måste vissa grejer vara så svåra att förstå eller är jag lite dum i huvudet? UGH jag vet inte.
