https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157055.Once_Upon_a_Marigold
You kind of just want to hug it and squeeze it and call it George, because it's just that damned cute.
So much fun!(Okay, there were some parts where the author was clearly trying too hard to keep the tone and did a bit too much telling instead of showing- this was mostly evident with the three older sisters who came for the wedding.
But by that time, I was so involved that it only registered as a minor annoyance, and the end was back to the original level of fun.
I kind of wonder if an editor was responsible for those pages, because they stick out.)
CUTENESS.This book was awesome!
the goal of the book wasn't to be cryptic), but it was just so sweet and innocent and SO funny!Okay, so it's about this 6-year-old boy, Christian, who runs away from home and ends up living with and being raised by a Troll, Edric (Ed) in a cave.
So 13 years later, Christian (sometimes Chris) is a strapping guy...
And he has this telescope, and has been (very innocently) admiring the pretty little brunette princess (Marigold, 17) whose balcony happens to face the cave...
Marigold's mom is trying to hook her up with any eligible bachelor who will have her, and Christian is REALLY jealous...
The font the words are printed in reminded me of the font from Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants (easy read, I knew), and it proclaimed itself to be “part comedy, part love story, part everything-but-the-kitchen-sink; happily-ever-after turned upside down, inside out, and completely over the top!” Well, I don’t know about all that, but it was an entertaining read — a fairy tale with a modern, fun, whimsical feel to it.I must admit I liked the first half of the story much better than the second half.
But then we don’t get to spend any time with them in the second half of the book.
This was a sweet pleasant fairytale-like romance , but it was predictable and had some of the most famous cliches in fairytales , with some originality though. The narration was fantastic !!
Absolutely delightful even the second time around. I am glad to have a chance to re-read the first two, and to finally read the third.EtA: I like how this one is from the pov of the male character.Btw, I guess I really do love this author. I also own her Love Among the Walnuts (which I found at a thrift store, sans jacket, and did not realize as YA because it read as adult) and am going to reread that before releasing it.
I’ve invented all sorts of useful things, like an elevator to bring water from the stream up to our sink.
I can see that castle from my cave, I even came up with an invention, a kind of glass in a tube, that lets me see things up close that are far away.
And those princes and knights just want to marry Marigold for her money, they don’t care that she’s got a great smile, when she does smile, which isn’t very often, or that her hair is the prettiest shade of brown, like rich mahogany.
Wonderful and orginal fairy tale!
Don't get me wrong, it's a wonderful book.
It's a wonderful fairy tale and deserves to be placed a long side the classic Princess tales made popular by Disney.I remember when I first read it (basically two years ago), I LOVED it.
I rememeber that it was one of the best books I've ever read.
Don't get me wrong, I still really like this book.
I just don't think it's 5 stars anymore.Wonderful fairy tale/love story/crazy and cheesy book.
Anyone that loves a good story to take them away from the real world for a few hours, should read it.
This book is just as cute as a pile of puppies and kittens licking each other's ears on a glittery pink blanket.
Surrounded by cupcakes.That is to say, there's a certain audience for this kind of thing and everyone else should keep their cute-sickness bags handy.
(I am saying this as a fan of Cute Overload with a very high tolerance for cuteness.) It's the light and fluffy side of a fairy tale without the darkness.But it isn't bad.
Ed and Christian are relatively enlightened buddies.
The bad guys are appropriately evil, boorish, and dull with few redeeming qualities.
Cute
What do you get when you mix an evil mother, a not so typical princess, a grumpy troll and a lost boy?
Once upon a Marigold is a book that follows a young boy falling in love with a princess across the river who exchanges little notes with him using p-mail (pigeon mail) creating a beautiful distant relationship.
Keeping his identity hidden from Marigold, Christian’s loyalty remains as he watches over her from the sidelines falling even more in love with his one and only princess.
Christian must do everything in his power to protect his love and find his own destiny in the process.
Ok. So I decided to read up on some of my favorite books ever just to remember how much I really do love them.
And it also reminded me how sad some of the science fiction stuff can be compared to this lovely and just plain cute fantasy!
I freaking love this book!
It's just adorable.
It makes me happy and joyous and I must say, a bit hyper.
:) This is one of those books that you just have to read when you're having a dumper day.
And I was kinda having one when I read it all yesterday when I was sick.
So cute.
This was actually the second time I had read this book and I always love it. It is a good story and not some heavy book that makes you think all deep. It is just a good book with trolls and princess and an even mother who wants to take over the kingdom. It is a good book for anyone who is ready to get out of reading super serious books. It's a great book and I do recommend it.
"Once Upon a Marigold" is a romantic comedy book. In the story, a commoner who lives in a cave with a troll and two dogs falls in love with the youngest princess of their kingdom. They start off as best friends through "p-mail" (basically handwritten letters sent by pigeons), but soon they meet at one point in the book and become something more. This is a very cheesy book filled with corny jokes, so I think only a few section of readers would enjoy reading this and apparently I'm a part of that "few section".
This is super cute and sweet as hell. I loved Christian, Marigold, Ed and the dogs...all five of them. I particularly liked Ed because he reminded me of Eve Dallas (In Death series) with all his mixed cliches. Made me smile every time. "He'd buttered his bread, and now he'd have to lie in it." "What's sauce for the goose, is sauce for the eager beaver." "You just have to take the bear by the horns."I'm looking forward to Twice Upon A Marigold.
Not interesting, until you find out he's a troll.)The book's climax reminded me of Ella Enchanted.
There was a curse to break, a step-mother to face, a prince to marry, people shouting, and a dog-powered flying machine (okay, not exactly like Ella Enchanted).
Maybe it was to give a more complete approach to the story (like seeing into the doctor's head at the climax; perfect!
As much as I liked this book, I wouldn't want a sequel.
It would be like trying to write a sequel to Ella Enchanted, which is perfect by itself.
This is a great book for tweens and early teens. It is a clever story that communicates that true love is based on friendship, partnership, and being someone's "bulwark." My daughter, (11) and I have truly enjoyed reading it together and she cannot wait to start the next in the series, "Twice Upon A Marigold"
This is fantasy in a fairy tale kind of way for kids and I just have to say that this was such a cute little story. I enjoyed this one....and the ending....oh my. What a perfect set up for the next one. This is one book that I would read to my own kids if they were still little, especially my girls, but I think my boys would have thought it was kind of cool too.
My younger brothers were complaining about listening to a "princess girly-girl book," but a few magic spells later, they said that they loved it.
From the beginning the dialogue contained a light, airy, and modern quality that didn't fit with the time period common with princes and princess.
Since it's one of my favorite romantic comedies, even though it wasn't my favorite book, it convinced me to continue reading.
One of my friends sent me this book and said that I would fall for Christian, and I did!
He was romantic without even trying to be, and she wasn't wrong about me falling for him.
Once Upon A Marigold appeals to fans of Ella Enchanted and The Princess Bride.
So after The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo which almost killed my brain (in a good way, of course) I decided to pick up this book, because I love fairy-tale like stories.
There were no complicated schemes, the writing was easy to understand, and overall I felt really good when I read this book.
Though I kind of didn't really appreciate the part where (view spoiler)[ we get to know Christian is a prince after all, because honestly, when there will come a time when commoners get beautiful princesses?
We read a chapter of this nightly before bed. My daughter really liked it and it was complex writing for the average 9 year old I think. I have to admit, at bedtime I am the one reading out loud generally and she stopped me quite a few times to find out what a word meant, which interrupted my flow and frustrated me at times, but I hid that pretty well and can feel good about all the new words that we added to her vocabulary ;) We have the second book on hold at the library right now.
A cute little story that made me think of Shrek (minus the third-grade humor) or Tangled. :)
This is one of those books that when I am really down, I read as a pick me up. I've read it so many times and I love it so much. The most adorable.
I was in desperate need of a light, fluffy read when my sister pushed Once Upon a Marigold into my hands.It's pretty much exactly the feel-good story I needed - fun, cute, happy and just a bit silly. Really enjoyed it!
Similar feel to The Ordinary Princess by M.M. Kaye. Delightful! I can't wait to have children just so I can read them this book.
i enjoyed it .. it was like المكتبه الخضراء
This was a silly but fun read. Parts of it were a little more intense than I thought would be found in a book that seemed very light-hearted. I loved reading about rainbow crystal caves, p-mail, and dogs that could harmonize. The author is very creative.
I thought it was an interesting book and very fun to read but there were some things I didn't like. Overall, it was good.
There were too many plotlines going at once (ie, Olympia trying to kill off Marigold and Swithbert, finding out that the four girls aren't actually from Olympia and Swithbert, discovering that Christian is a prince, Christian trying to marry/be close to Marigold, and then there's also Marigold's curse that mysteriously goes away after she "heals" Chrisitan...That wasn't explained at all.) All in all, if you're about 7 you'll like this book and look past its obvious plotholes as well as the obnoxious attempts at being funny by mixing up two different phrases (ie, "Keep your shoulder to the grindstone and your nose to the wheel." said Ed...He's the one that's always doing this wonderfully unfunny thing) and then there's the cacophony of dogs, which is apparently somehow important.
I really didn't care for it, I most likely wouldn't have as a child either.
All I really remembered was that I’d enjoyed it, a feeling I still had after the second reading.One thing that might bother a reader about the book is that while it is a fantasy world, they make plenty of current comments and jokes, like calling Marigold’s sisters blonde, but not dumb.
Plus, the main character invents p-mail, which by the end of the book is used throughout the kingdom just like e-mail is today.
Really, I think this book could have taken place in our world with some names and situations changed, but it’s more fun against a fairytale backdrop.Marigold’s curse, on the other hand, did bother me.
