https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72530.People_of_the_Deer
It tells the story of his time with the Ihalmiut, a group of Inuit (Eskimo) who live on the great Barrens plains of northern central Canada in an area now known as the Kivalliq Region of present-day Nunavut.
His book made Mowat into a literary celebrity and without its publication the Canadian government could have conveniently continued to ignore these people.Instead, Mowat’s indignation, his explanations of the ways of the people and his entertaining storytelling contributed to the shift in the Canadian government’s Inuit policy that – despite many cruel blunders – did eventually ensure their survival.So if some of the information in “People ofthe Deer” is oversimplified or just plain wrong (as revealed by later studies that have had the luxury of longer research time and greater research dollars) perhaps Mowat can be forgiven for deciding that reaching a wide audience by entertaining them was more important than academic exactness.
People of the Deer  – Farley Mowatt4****From the Forward - On an evening when the sun hovered above the horizon’s lip, I sat beside a man who was not of my race, and watched a spectacle so overwhelming in its magnitude that I had no words for it.Below us, on the undulating darkness of the barren plains, a tide of life flowed out of the dim south and engulfed the world, submerged it so that it sank beneath a living sea. The very air was heavy with the breath of life itself. There was a sound of
– Farley Mowatt4****From the Forward - On an evening when the sun hovered above the horizon’s lip, I sat beside a man who was not of my race, and watched a spectacle so overwhelming in its magnitude that I had no words for it.Below us, on the undulating darkness of the barren plains, a tide of life flowed out of the dim south and engulfed the world, submerged it so that it sank beneath a living sea.
I read this book for class and found it to be slightly outdated, but very gripping and well-written.
Twenty-first century man doesn't goes out into the wilderness without a flight plan, GPS, satellite phones, emergency SOS beacons, a corporate sponsor.
Blind climbers on Everest, kayaks dropping down 189 foot waterfalls, swimming from Cuba.This is the adventure tale of an old skool mid-20th century guy who just went out there to a blank spot on a map to see what was out there and report back.
The author who wrote a number of first person sub-Arctic adventures has been challenged as to whether or not he actually did the things he said he did.
They noted that Mowat's lurid and wildly inaccurate tales of environmental danger, destruction of rare species and mass starvation of Inuit, Dene and Eskimos had prompted Canada's government to respond aggressively to every problem.
The Inuit and Dene of the far north typically lived in small nomadic bands comprised of 50 or fewer people.
Native populations have soared, illiteracy is now a thing of the past and the natives are now practicing trades and professions.The People of the Deer is one of the very few books ever written by Mowat whose value outlived its political usefulness.
But I soon found the book terribly dated with politically incorrect language (half breed, primitive peoples, etc.) and the writing painfully pretentious.
21) Oh, come on!But I don't think its the dated language or the mediocre writing that has placed this book in the dust bin of history,(or that it should have!) but the fact that Farley Mowat is basically discredited as a non-fiction writer.
for a sample rant.)There are some interesting stories in the books - which might be true - and Mowat's heart seems to be in the right place, but I'm guessing that these days there are better books out there about the indigenous people of northern Canada.
Farley Mowat, a well-known Canadian writer, trained as a zoologist, includes beautiful description of the nature he encountered in his two year sojourn in the part of (modern) Nunavut back in the 1940s when that part of North America was scarcely known to outsiders.
He befriended some of the Ihalmiut, the caribou-hunting, inland Inuit (once known as 'Eskimos' which is actually an Indian term).
This is a most powerful book, full of beautiful and fascinating details about the lives and beliefs of a people most of us will never see.
As a Canadian, I was deeply moved by this book and the plight of the Ihalmiut people (the Inland Eskimos whose survival depended on the Deer).
He told the story as if it were the Barrens themselves he was breathing into the pages...The elements, the loneliness, the sense of urgency, the beauty and simplicity, the grandeur, the complex solutions to a simple problem: starvation...He painted all this with honesty and trust in his fellow men.
Sometimes, I felt as if he truly believed who ever read this book would gladly and immediately, pledge money or time to the cause of The People of the Deer.
His beautiful and heartbreaking naivety.
However, it is truly beautifully written about the death of a people.
The author - who lived with the tribe for 2 years to attempt to understand the people from their point of view - did an expert job of recanting what happened, how it happened.
He makes a very determined attempt to see things differently than his point of view.
Though a sociologist, the book is luridly written.
In modern times, you'd expect such good writing from travel journalist/book writers.
A wonderful book about the encroachment of modernization and it's mal-effects on an unsuspecting people.
a lesson in empathy. mowat takes readers to northern canada where he lives among the inuit people. with the development of the continent, their land, livelihood, and population are all disappearing. this book haunts because it doesn't preach. 12 years after reading it, i vividly remember the inuit reduced to eating their boots and blankets to survive the winter. as i remember it, there was nothing righteous about the story, but it was profoundly humbling.
One of my favorite books from high school days. Farley Mowat is probably Canada's best author. His most commercially successful work, "Never Cry Wolf" was adapted for the big screen, too. "People of the Deer" is about Mowat's time spent studying the Native people known as the Ihalmuit, and their nomadic lives following the enormous Caribou herds and migrations in the far north of Canada. Yes, he gets some "Eskimo bootie", too, so it's not all dry academia.
Mowat always has an engaging writing style. I get so immersed in his world. This book, greatness and sadness. Basically an ethnography of the Inuit (inland Eskimoes) and their trials and way of life.
This was my introduction to Farley Mowat as an author. I've never been able to get enough. His passing is sad.
It was published in 1952, but the author Farley Mowat was ahead of his time, because he lovingly portrayed the culture of the Ihalmiut people without belittling them because their life was different Western civilization.
Mowat lived with the Ihalmiut people for several years and learned their language.
There was a lot to admire about the Ihalmiut culture.
Ihalmiut people shared their food, and tools generously with their neighbors.
Sadly, People of the Deer, reminded me of the book, Things Fall Apart.
This book doesn't have a happy ending, but it is worth reading.
It was entirely unexpected and wholly engrossing to spend some time with the Ihalmiut of the Barrens, whose everyday existence can be so alien and so familiar all at once.This is not a diary or logbook of his interactions, but a collection of highlights from what was clearly a trip far outside the comfort zone of all of his readers.
Mowat carries you along over the open moonscape of the barrens to meet a small group of Ihalmiut, to live and die with them as they surf the crest of the great caribou migration and suffer through the great changes and calamities brought on by their first interactions with white men.A great read and I would highly recommend it for anyone interested in the Canadian Arctic, adventure/exploration writing and/or anthropology.
While its immersive look at the lives of an otherwise seemingly under-documented people is compelling for its era, I can't finish this book.
The main characters of the story might as well be caribou and not human beings for all the story really goes into any details about them or their emotional lives, as opposed to just the bare bones of their survival and surroundings, i.e. their behavioural adaptations to the north.
Perhaps in part because I keep putting the book down, I can't distinguish one character from the other.
This is an ecological work, not a human story, and it's disturbing.
People of the Deer is a tear-jerker of a read. I never met Farley Mowat and I truly wanted to as I spent some time traversing the areas he (and Barry Lopez in Arctic Dreams) writes about so beautifully. People of the Deer is must reading for people wanting to know more about the plight of the Great North.
Not his best effort but, in my experience, Mowat doesn't write bad books. In addition to being entertained, you will undoubtedly learn things you didn't know aboutCanada, Eskimos, migratory patterns of deer, history, and so on. .
Although this story is quite dated, it contains a message about the dangerous costs of "progress" on our natural resources and the people who rely on them for survival. Mowat is a fantastic story teller, and this novel keeps the reader absorbed form cover to cover.
It was excellent and made me hunger to read another, which I just did with People of the Deer.In 1886, the Ihalmiut of northern Canada numbered 7,000 souls; by 1946, when 25-year-old Farley Mowat travelled to the Arctic, their population had dwindled to only 40.
Learning a little of their language allowed him to hear the Ihalmiut's story of the good times, when the deer (caribou) numbered in the thousands.Mowat was very thorough in telling the story of their destruction, how the white man came and set up trading posts to trade food, guns and ammo for white fox pelts.
I have to admit that I'm not a very good non-fiction reader and usually I would especially be sleeping while trying to read a biological/anthropological/ zoological/conservationist-like slanted book--but this author is a really amazing author with the ability to submerge his readers into the world he's inhabiting--making you care about the people or animals or places he's writing about it a very intimate way.
I really don't know how to describe why I find his works so fascinating and readable when they're so different from what I'm usually reading.
These people numbered in the thousands at the end of the 19th century, and by 1947 when Mowat went up to live with them, they numbered well under 100 (pretty fucked up).
I learned a lot from this book-the importance of deer in all that these Inuit do (food, clothing and shelter), the destructiveness of white mans interference (traders who change the way the Inuit live and then leave them in the lurch), the interesting communal lives that they lead, and the fantastical spirits they believe in and guide them in their lives.
I will read more of Mowat's books.
OK, well first one should know that there is controversy as regards the absolute truth of what Farley Mowatt has written in his books, I guess especially regarding the Wolf (Never Cry Wolf) but I tend to believe what he writes, at least as much as one can believe anyone.
He does have a goal to influence government policies in regards to native peoples, animal populations and environmental usage; and he has been to some extent successful in this.
I want to put a quote in this review from Wiki:"His stories are fast-paced, gripping, personal, and conversational." This description is exactly the way I found "People of the Deer" to read.
Mowat relates how they make their close, their diet, their family structures, their folklore and mythologies, their terrors, their hunting genius, their hospitality, their language characteristics, their people up close, and he is such a gifted, expert writer that this study should, I believe, be studies as a prototype for creative non-fiction, as a treatise on preserving native cultures, and as a record and tribute to a great but ignored people.
Also worth the effort is reading the final two chapters; Mowat explicitly outlines what he believes is the best way to preserve native cultures to posterity in a way that maintains dignities and honors traditions.
Mowat writes with admiration for their ability to survive in this harsh environment, and appreciation for their gentle society and humor and culture.
There is a great sadness that pervades the book, as the contact with white people has been terribly destructive to their society, and there were only a few dozens people left at the time of his contact with him.
Their destruction was brought about by contact with European diseases, the convincing of people to hunt fox and other animals for fur to trade instead of hunting caribou for meat and the subsequent precipitous exit of the fur traders during the depression which resulted in mass starvation, and the massive extermination of the caribou by people south of the Barrens.
He has a storyteller’s flair and a lovely grasp of narrative flow.People Of The Deer was published in 1952 after Mowat spent two years with the Ihalmiut people of Canada, Inuit who live inland and traditionally depend on the reindeer as their main source of livelihood.
This ability of Mowat’s to integrate himself into another culture is one of his greatest strengths, given the kind of books he writes.Like many of his books, People Of The Deer is an indictment, this time an indictment of the treatment of the Ihalmiut by the white man.
Mowat’s books are often like protest songs or punk songs, or like Michael Moore’s movies but subtle.
Mowat travelled far and through hardship to learn the stories of the Ihalmiut.
"Kakumee's face was like a masterful devil-mask that had weathered and cracked through the centuries under the storms and the sun...Kakumee looked at me and smiled and his smile was as cold as that of a hangman." Mowat is a good story teller and his descriptions of the Ihalmiut he meets as well as the barren country he travels both compel and excite the imagination.

This book was written in the 40's when Mowat was in his early 20's.
What amazed me the most about this book was the lived experience Mowat had.
That is what makes this book phenomenal for me - understanding through our mistakes what we did wrong, and what we need to do better in regards to cultural acceptance.
Several chapters are focused on dreams/visions, I wasn't really interested in this part of the book, I was more interested in Mowat's experiences.
The writing and wording is a bit off, but one needs to remember, this book was written 70 years ago.
I read the 1951 edition thinking I would be reading an anthropologically oriented book about indigenous people in Canada.
Instead I was treated to a treatise on one man's experience living/traveling with a group of native people in the Barrens, people whose main source of food and life was deer.
I did get to learn about some of the beliefs and customs of the people Mowat lived with, and was amazed at the extensive creation myth he recounted--it is completely different from other creation stories I have read.
Anyway, I enjoyed book.
