https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202485.Fundamentals_of_Physics
right hand rule #43: if a ball drops sideways from a moving car while moving through a magnetic field at the speed of light, point your pointer finger in the direction of your temple, curl your fingers into your palm, and point your thumb in the +Y direction.
I was lucky enough to study under Jearl Walker (of Halliday, Resnick and Walker) and it is great to see his humor surface in an advanced text.
the best and the probably the most difficult physics book out there!!!!
I wont have added this to my goodreads list here had it not been this beautiful a book. I hate physics but the book makes me love it. Readin it, i came to believe, some gifted physicists writing books make you laugh with their wonderful sense of humor when the subject torments you. I've never read a reference book as magnificent as this one.
It's a great book for a beginner in real physics, for kids who have enrolled in an undergrad physics program and found out the not so pleasant truth: that all that they have learned in high school about physics was just a nice story, a set of approximations given to them just to inform them there exists something like physics.
So in that sense, this book is excellent for bridging that gap between high school physics, and the real deal.
There are questions that open each chapter, with the purpose to make the student think in terms of physics.
This text changed my life.A slide-loving pig slides down a certain 35 degree slide (Fig. 6-24) in twice the time it would take to slide down a frictionless 35 degree slide. What is the coefficient of kinetic friction between the pig and the slide?Note, there is a picture of a pig on a slide to accompany this question. Never to overlook physics-nerds' unwavering sense of humor, Halliday/Resnick/Walker's text has served as both springboard and dog-eared, always-trusty reminder of why I endeavored on a career in Physics in the first place.
Good for a survey course in introductory physics. I wouldn't recommend using the text for more than that purpose. Those with strong mathematical backgrounds would be better served by introductory texts in the respective topics if they are seriously considering physics. Although most institutions will require the survey course regardless of chosen degree path.
This is equally a work of art and academics !! Whether you like physics or hate it this is a book you can read whether you are in high school or work in a sophisticated research lab. This is in my all time favorite collection !
am i extra for adding a textbook on here? perhaps. but this is the best book written by anyone ever and i need to appreciate it duly.
I wish I could understand physics but this book is hilarious in some part! First year is over, and finally, I'm able to say farewell to Halliday.
It teaches the student the core elements of physics of course, but it also teaches them how to solve more advanced problems using simple techniques.
This text has the ability to simply give you a lot of the math so the student can simply focus on the physics (assuming Algebra, Trig, and a little Calc).
Most books can not do this and most physics texts get bogged down in math problems.
Even in my upper level classes, for the most part, we were just doing more advanced versions of these problems and sometimes I was even able to solve advanced problems using the simple techniques in this book.
Based on the date of publication I am pretty sure this is the text I used from 1983-84 for General Physics I and II. Sold and better than other similar texts I saw then or shortly after. It had the added benefit of bringing me together with my first love and much later wife. Few other physics books ever have that attached to them.
gggggggggggoood
My favorite part of the book was finding those rare gem questions scattered throughout the book that were so hilariously ridiculous that you just had to show someone else.
Keep in mind I only made it though chapter 32 (p 971) out of 44 (p 1368)...My Quantum course use another textbook.I originally was gonna say 3/5 stars, but the creative/ hilarious (although saddly rare) problems scattered here & there give this book an extra star for me...simply because I will remember this book because of those.
It helped me comb through what I have already known and it integrated calculus. The best part is that this book gave me an understanding that physics is about motions of everything. It starts with how regular geometric shaped object moves. Then it applies to electric particles and waves, although those chapters about waves were still a little bit fuzzy to me. Perfect introductory material.
nice
One of the best Physics books for students in School and to some extent for undergraduates.
Not the classic i read in college but still has the haliday and resnick touch
Good book.
It really helps me in physics prior from entering the university, very intuitive and colorful
Not the best possible, but the best available source for self study.
Turned my life around
it is nice book
waves and harmonic
The equations are also sparser than I'd expect from a physics book.
You open that book, and half the page is equations and/or examples.
Half the time I'm setting up problems that need differential equations to solve, because I don't realize certain things aren't an unknown quantity.If I'm going to assume something, I'd like to have a better reason than 'The textbook didn't specify otherwise.' If I tried that in a chem lab, I'd get (figuratively) smacked upside the head.
Just plug in Maxwell's Equations.
But why or how Maxwell's Equations came to be, this book will not cover.
Why the last Maxwell Equation is significant, it will not cover.
Halliday will just say, here's the four equations, here's how E&M works, now calculate it.
Unless you are a general-physics programmer or simply trying to pass the AP exam for credit, for example, this book doesn't function well as an introduction to physics textbook.
While students would be able to pass tests with this book, readers would not have a strong conceptual understanding, which is fundamental to physics!
I'm not sure if this is the exact book I have but the one I have is terrible!!! (Same cover as this one). The sections are way to short to give you any detailed information. While my professor advised us to skip the sections and go straight to the summary, I learn best by outlining and these sections had nothing of use in them. I'd read the chapter and try to do the homework but the book gave me no clue how to solve any of the problems. I was so disappointed.
I have read a very old version(My Dad's) of this book when I was a kid. The concepts are simple and I still remember reading the problems at the end of chapter for stories. Preparing for college entrance examinations, I bought a new book and the experience was very different. You will not come across a better book which has so many things to keep you locked in. Physics explained in the way it is supposed to be.
highly recommended as a helpful reference tool, even if it isn't your assigned textbook. well organized, colorful, and full of good examples. includes an interactive website. it is really good for learning, for those having trouble with physics, and especially for physics majors to go back for reference.
This is the Physics text that got me through University. It contains a section on just about everything, it explains the Maths concepts as gently & thoroughly as it can (particularly good on vectors), but mostly it's written in a formal style that's still incredibly approachable.Serway is good; HRW is better.
