https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295598.The_Shetland_Bus
This book chronicles the work of a British and Norwegian unit based on Shetland Island during WWII that ferried men and equipment to German-occupied Norway and brought back refugees.
He was never allowed to sail to Norway (he would stick out if he had to land, plus he knew too much to risk going behind enemy lines), but he worked with and debriefed the men, so he was in a unique position to record events and write this book.Initially the men used Norwegian fishing boats because they blended in so well.
Copyright © The Literary Estate of David Howarth, 1998First published in Great Britain byJames Nelson and Sons Ltd 1951From the Foreword: During the war a group of small Norwegian boats manned by Norwegian refugees, normally with a background as fishermen, maintained a route between The Shetland Islands and occupied Norway.Opening: SAGA is an old Norse word which meant simply a story.
But from its association with the kind of story which ancient Norseman liked to tell, it has come to mean a story of heroism and endeavour, and of adventure at sea.
#16 TBR Busting 2013Liberally dotted with photographs, the stories are relayed in unadorned sincerity.
I believe the forward to the book by the author does the best job of summing up what the book is about and why it was written: "During the German occupation of Norway, from 1940 to 1945, every Norwegian knew that small boats were constantly sailing from the Shetland Isles to Norway to land weapons and supplies and to rescue refugees.
The Norwegians who stayed in Norway and struggled there against the invaders were fortified by this knowledge, and gave the small boats the familiar name which is the title of this book: 'to take the Shetland bus' became a synonym in Norway for escape when danger was overwhelming.
I am not usually a fan of war stories but was interested in this book because of its connection to Shetland.
The books starts somewhat slowly describing all the technical aspects of running Norwegian fishing boats from Shetland to Norway under the noses of the Nazis.
The sheer impossibility of what they did amazed me.
The stories of the boats that didn't make it and what happened to those men were tragic but fascinating.
The bravery of the men on the boats and the Norwegians who were occupied by the Nazis was astounding.
An amazing tale.
I knew absolutely nothing of this operation before reading David Howarth's book.
David Howarth thinks this mission for which he served as second in command was a worthwhile effort that made occupied Norway more self-confident.
"And to ascribe glory to the violent death of any young man loving life is only to add further folly to the failure of human wisdom which is the cause of war" (p.
Whether you're interested in WWII history or planning a trip to Norway (as I am), you'll find this book informative and the reading worthwhile.
Written by one of the British officers who helped run the mission, this book tells the story of this mission which used small Norwegian fishing boats to travel between the Shetland Islands and Norway during the German occupation of Norway.
Told in first person by the officer who was second in command of the Shetland base, this is very well written and does a great job of conveying the inventiveness, skill and heroism of those invovled in this mission.This would be a great read for any WWII history buffs, as well as for people like me who are simply fascinated with the remote islands of Scotland.
I can't believe that no one has picked it up to write a screenplay and make a movie of it.
And as you read it, you know that there are so many many more stories than the author knew or could write about fully.
These are heroes that I believe not that many people have heard of, so I hope their stories will become better known.
(I thought I had given the gist of the book before, but in case I didn't - it is the story of a secret base in the Shetlands, which used Norwegian fishermen and their boats for smuggling arms, agents, and refugees in and out of occupied Norway, during WWII.)
I have been struggling to find information on my great-uncle, William Enoksen, and this book gave me a great view of what he did during ww2. Greatly written and researched.
There is much reflection here too - grief over those who were lost (I had not realised what a high proportion that was), the two big escapes when things went wrong, and consideration of whether it was all worth while (and perhaps a little disappointment that there was in the end to be no Allied invasion and liberation of Norway).
This book, which was written by the late English historian who was also profoundly involved in espionage efforts in occupied Norway during World War II, is obviously the work of someone of great skill who is writing a war memoir that manages to give a great deal of honor and praise to the brave volunteer Norwegian refugees in the Shetlands who helped popularize a new expression in Norwegian and show their loyalty to the Allied cause during that nation's dark hour under German misrule.

It is a pleasure to read well researched, well written history, but one step above that is reading about the historic event written by an accomplished historian who took part in the event. Author David Howarth has produced thoughtful, well-regarded histories of persons, ships, battles, incidents and periods spanning from 1066 to the 20th century. This story describes a little known spy/resistance, refugee rescue and infiltration operation along the north coast of Norway that took place throughout WWII in which Mr. Howarth, a British naval officer. It is a terrific story.
This is an interesting and well-written book about an operation carried out during WW II that I had never heard about. It became known to me when I watched "Shetland" a Netflix police/crime series which takes place on the Shetland Islands north of Scotland. Reading this author makes me want to read some of his historical novels.
This is a history book that reads like an adventure book. Follow the daring journeys across the North Sea in winter to provide resources and money to Nazi-occupied Norway. Mr. Howard's book, We Did Alone, traces the story of one failed mission and the miraculous survival of one man.
The true story of espionage, smuggling, and sabotage carried out by Norwegian fishermen and fishing boats based in the Shetland Islands. Refugees who were forced to flee from the Gestapo, referred to their journey as, "taking the Shetland Bus."
I definitely enjoyed this more for being at least somewhat familiar with the coast of Norway, but it's a neat story regardless. Lots of brave and resourceful sailors, but I appreciated that Howarth made a point of not glorifying warfare itself.
Excellent story of WWII in the Shetland Islands and Norway. The extraordinary people who risked their lives evacuating persons from Norway and supplying the Norwegian resistance movement are highlighted here along with the Shetlands ties to Norse history.
An excellent history of a minor theatre of WWII. An account of supplying the the Norwegian resistance across the North Sea ...
A part of WWII you don't hear about.
Very interesting and well written. Enjoyed it very much.
Wonderful presentation of a little-known part of World War II history.
A little dry on the writing, but an excellent history if a little known part of WW2
Very interesting read about the role the Shetland Islands and fisherfolk played during WWII.
Participants were Norwegian civilian fishermen and UK soldiers and sailors, including the author who was one of the commanders.
These were patriots who wanted to see their country free of the German occupiers and would do anything to help, even something as seemingly small as transporting undercover agents in their fishing boats.
A briskly told story, the author gives the impression that it was all just a great adventure, but does end with a note explaining how deadly it truly was and how lucky he and the remaining crews were to survive the war.
Probably gives an accurate picture of a lot of people's war, and it was written at the time (diary) and written up soon after, so none of this hard to believe stuff written fifty years after the event.
The daring escapades were by the Norwegian resistance, and the English guy could hardly pass for Norwegian; no idea if any Norwegians published anything in translation now.
Norway was with Hitler.
Also, he possesses a sort of literary reverse Midas touch - everything he tells turns to wood...
no cliché left unturned.
David Howarth’s The Shetland Bus tells of a dangerous and tenuous sea-link forged between Shetland and Norway during the war.Initially based in Lunna (later Scalloway) in the UK's most northerly island-group, a discreet fleet of “fishing vessels” was gathered to ferry men and supplies to and from the wartime resistance in Norway.
But many got through, making valuable contributions to the war effort.The Shetland Bus is a first-hand account of the operation, written by one of the officers involved.
Despite reading it whilst staying in Shetland (meaning I could visit the very-real places it describes), the narrative alone was more than enough to bring the story to life.
“The Shetland Bus” by David Howarth was an exciting World War II tale, and one that has not been told in many places.
It concerns an English led group of Norwegian sailors who kept up a routine of sailing between the Shetland Islands (just off the tip of Scotland) and the coast of Norway dropping off guns, ammunition, agents, radio transmitters and the like during the war to create as much trouble as possible for the Nazis in Norway.
The secret sailings forced the Germans to divert and keep tens of thousands of their military in Norway, thus keeping them from fighting in Europe.
Set between Shetland and Norway this story tells of some of the bravest people in the second world war who smuggled goods and people between Norway and Shetland and then the final story of Lars who just survives with his life - and I mean just!!!!!The dates I have entered are the second time I read the book - I actually read it not long after I moved to Shetland, about 1993 or 4, as I was learning about the connections between Shetland and Norway.
Its a great book - thoroughly reccommended!
This chapter of World War II history is little known outside the north of Scotland, although it did have some impact on the war in occupied Norway. The Shetland Bus was the maritime link between Norway and Shetland during WW2, using small boats in an unforgiving environment. It aided the resistance fighters in Norway, at considerable risk to the British seafarers. It was, however, not always the Nazi military that stood in the way of success; the Norwegian Sea was an equally formidable adversary.
A fantastically written account of the brave men and women of an occupied Norway, this author wrote 24 books after this (his first),. It bought it to life so much how ordinary people stood against oppression and enslavement (by the Germans). It moved me to lay a wreath at my local cemetary where a Norwegian who fell in the war is buried ( arnos vale Bristol).
