https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676235.Lord_Kalvan_of_Otherwhen
He had to leave Earth as he knew it in order to feel at home at last.Calvin, you see, ran afoul of a glitch in an alien (though still Earthly) technology, was swept into a temporal conveyor, and despite being thrust into a unique environment, still managed to defend himself against a fellow cop's energy weapon (versus Calvin's .38 revolver), and escape from the unknown but self-evident threat of that weird place.But where in the world was he?
I said things like “yesterday at the latest” and “Dralm dammit” so often that Mama finally blew a fuse and took the book away.
And then we meet Calvin Morrisson, Pennsylvanian cop, going in with three others to take a murderer.
Except that he's accidentally swept up by a Paratime traveler, and dumped in another world.Recognizes it as Pennsylvania.
And gets shot.By, it turns out, Rylla, who is properly ashamed of herself.
He learns that they refused to surrender sulphur springs to the priests of Styphon, and will be crushed.
The priests have given their enemies fireseed, and refused any to their country.
Fortunately for them, Calvin -- now going by Kalvan -- knows how to make it because it's gunpowder.
Much like Hos-Hostigos.I had long since read L Sprague de Camp, Lest Darkness Falls, the story where a man of our times (and Calvin Morrison is a Pennsylvania State Trooper from the 50's or 60's) returns to another time where the use of the technology from now can change that past they have entered.
There are not that many pages but within them we have the introduction, the ability to change society, the ability to stabilize a country headed to defeat and turn it around.Our hero emerges as just that, a hero.
The hero ends up in a primitive society in a parallel universe. He immediately starts producing a lot of weapons, and starts a dozen wars, killing thousands of people in the process. He also considers making inventions to improve peoples lives. (paper, calendar, whisky...) but he never quite gets around to actually doing any of that.Nowadays that would propably have made him the villain, but this is an old book. People were rather strange back then. Read it for the historical value... or don't.
I really liked this book when I was 14. I should read it again. Even if I end up not liking the novel anymore, I will always remember it as the book that introduced me to the idea of Indo-European languages and alternate history fiction.
One of the best Sci-Fi stories ever! A lateral time line story, or alternate reality. Calvin Morrison a Penn State trooper from the late nineteen fifties is accidentally transported to an alternate reality where North America is a feudal system of warring princes. This book has it all, a Hero, a Princess, and lots of sword play!
I reread this story from time to time. It is one of my favorite adventure stories. Just plain fun.
Pournelle cited Piper as a great influence on his own work, especially his Janissaries series, and included in volume VIII was a sequel to Piper's trandimensional adventure story written by John F.
M. Stirling is a modern example of this same kind of story, which is immensely fun, and I also find very educational.For example, I wondered once what kind of civilization you could rebuild following a technological disaster like the Carrington Event.
John Carr and Roland Green wrote several more books following on this one, one of which is the short story that brought me here in the first place.
Premise - Point of Divergence (POD)Aryan-Transpacific line (Aryans move east rather than west, eventually settling the Americas)The StoryThe Paratime Police patrolled the vast number of alternate time-dimensions, the worlds which had branched off at every crucial point in history.
He’s a great nobleman: they’ve gone out of fashion on Europo-American, where the Common Man is the ideal.
(roughly 1590-1690 era weapons and armour)in this time line there is a god called styphon(not a real god, its not a fantasy) styphons priests have gained power because they alone know the secret of Fire Seed AKA gunpowderCalvin arrives, and of course knows the secret of GP, and shows the friendly king Pstophes the way to liberate his people from the oppresion of styphon.the story is about calvin becoming, Lord Kalvan, his wars against the enemies of Hostigos(the country he finds himself in) and his war against styphon.
i have however read Lord Kalvan of Otherwhen a few times, which is why the book looks like crap now and is all falling apart.
A model for alternate history stories...and a damn good read!
interesting journey back into a different age of fantasy writing. I wasn't as enamored with all the military strategy but it fit the book.
The best (and nearly first) cross-time-dimensional story out there.
A seminal Sci-Fi work, a must read for all Sci-Fi fans and his best work.
Starts well as a modern-man-cast-adrift-in-a-parallel-world story, complete with time police, although the latter theme is not well developed. The hero introduces some "modern" technology to the benighted ficton, notably improved gunpowder and ordnance. However, "Lest Darkness Fall" it ain't. The story gets bogged down in battles and politics. It's partly a personal thing: I love time travel/alternate histories, but battles bore me; even the great Poul Anderson loses me when he goes viking for 200 pages. I suspect Kalvan never gets around to inventing paper or reforming the calendar.
A long time favorite of mine --- I think I would give it five stars if I could parse some of the battle scenes.
Piper's narration would be greatly aided with some maps!What I love about this book is not just the time travel (which is really dimensional hopping to a less advanced Earth), it's the civilization building.
Pennsylvania State Police officer Calvin Morrison finds himself in a world where his large store of military knowledge (including, most importantly, how to make gunpowder) transforms the political realities around him.
If you'ved read anything in the 1632 series and enjoyed it, read this --- literarily speaking, this book is their cherished ancestor.
This is yet another wonderful novel by H. Beam Piper. I found the conflict between religion and governments to be particularly fascinating. This book gives a good example of how much potential the science-fiction genre has. Conflicts between cults and logic add an extra aspect of contention to the book. The book gains an extra aspect of realism as modern science is introduced. This introduction of science changes the way that people behave. This displays the fact that even the locals are dynamic in their mindsets. Overall, this book shows how worlds are built and it is a wonderful read.
This was the book I initially chose for the 2015 reading contest to fulfill the category of a book by an author with my initials. It took the library over two months to find it for me for inter-library loan so I had to go with another book for the contest but decided to read this anyways when it finally showed up. I'm glad I did. It was a fun read.
I recorded Lord Kalvan of Otherwhen in 50-55 minute episodes for Golden Hours, my local radio service for blind and reading-impaired listeners. Too bad I didn't make CD copies for myself, since the radio station broadcast the tape versions and then erased them too reuse.I guess I'll have to re-record it for Golden Hours, and this time keep a copy.
A bit too much "framing" with the Paratime police sections. I'd have done it all from Calvin Morrison's point of view, but that's just my opinion. Would have been quite brilliant if Sprague D Camp's Lest Darkness Fall hadn't been written 20 years earlier...
You remember that episode of Star Trek where Kirk was super awesome because he knew how to make gunpowder. Stretch that out into a full book and make the protagonist "Time-cop". Not my fav from Piper, but still solid fiction.
Enjoyed this book. It was a primer for some wargames at the time.
Superb "sideways in time" tale from H. Beam Piper.
1983 grade B
I love stories where a semi-genius from modern times ends up in a primitive society and uses his education to set himself up. This one had lots of big battles and the birth of a new kingdom.
read 09.17.84
One of the best parallel timelines type books - well thought premise - good read
A very easy read.
Lovely old alternate universe book. Nothing earth shattering, just a nice comfy read.
H. Beam Piper’s ‘Lord Kalvan of Otherwhen,’ is a science fiction novel from the mid-Sixties that explored the ‘multiverse’ concept.
‘Lord Kalvan’ teeters on the border of not so good.The multiverse itself is handled well enough.
Piper's view of history comes off as rather narrow.The story — or stories, as we have parallel plots — is okay, reasonably entertaining but with little character depth.
Maybe all the characters are.
But I am willing to let it fall on the three star side of that border, while admitting it could have tipped the other way if my mood had been a little different.
