https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351654.Baltimore_Blues
And can Tess find out before she winds up as dead as the lawyer?A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away, the girl I was seeing at the time told me I would like Laura Lippman.
Maybe she was right in that one particular instance.Baltimore Blues is a mystery that has many more layers than it first appears, like baklava.
It has to work for a living, to paraphrase Elmore Leonard.Since this was the first book in the series, Lippman had some groundwork to lay and she did it in a fairly painless way.
This is a zippy murder mystery set in Baltimore.
Tess Monaghan has been in a rut since she lost her newspaper job, but her life gets more exciting when her friend, Darryl, asks her to investigate his fiancé.
Things get messy when Darryl is accused of murdering a shady attorney linked to his girlfriend.
Tess tries to help him by finding the real killer, and ends up in the crosshairs herself.I listened to this audiobook while attending a conference in Baltimore, and it was fun to learn details about the different neighborhoods as Tess travels around the city to investigate the case.
This book certainly can't help that it was written almost 20 years ago & is therefore dated in ways both charming - "Tess looked over his shoulder, enthralled.
Electronic data bases were new to her" and irritating - Tess's insistence that the female members of the Victims of Male Aggression group have "built their lives around passivity and inaction," the entire existence of Crow.
But the mystery was interesting, and although Tess has archaic views on the proper way to be a victim of sexual assault, there is always room for her to grow.
I loved reading about Tess, her family, her uncle (who may not be a uncle) and having this whole thing set in Baltimore.
Lippman introduces some great characters, Tess's aunt Kitty, her ex Johnathan, her rowing buddy Rock, and her best friend Whitney.
She has an on and off relationship with an ex, but also finds herself thinking of someone who works with her aunt named Crow (I am also reading books with characters having terrible names).
I did love Tess and her relationship with her friend Whitney and how they pushed/pulled each other though.
I picked up this book after enjoying What the Dead Know, but I just couldn't get into it or make myself care about any of the characters.
Having read a few of her standalone novels, the editors convinced me it was time to try one in the Tess Monaghan series set in Baltimore.
You immediately know that this is a series where location will be just as important as the characters.
By page 5 references are made to the city including one by the Mayor who calls Baltimore the "The City that Reads" and Tess dubs The city that bleeds", fodder for investigation if I ever saw one.
Making this Tess's home tells me reading and books are important to Lippman and therefore to her character.
I recently read one of Lippman's standalone novels and liked it, so I dug up the first in her Tess Monaghan series.
Not bad, but a little bit clunky.
This is a book that definitely would have been better in first-person POV than in third.
It's a nice set-up for the series, though.
We meet Tess (who is not necessarily the most warm-and-fuzzy, likeable heroine), a former reporter turned semi-employed mooch, just as she stumbles onto the opportunity to do some detective work for the first time.
I'm always looking for a good series, so I plan to find the second book soon.
3.75 stars. I loved this for more than halfway, and then it started getting a little violent. I love Tess though and the other recurring characters, and the humor. Also the Baltimore flavor was a nice add. The audio narrator does a really bad Baltimore accent. But other than that, the narration was also good. Will continue with the series after a little break. Nice to have found a new series to enjoy!
I picked this up because it is a Baltimore author in a genre I like. It was okay. I'll read others, but its more in the mind-candy side of things. Definite beach read.
This is important as Tess is a Baltimore native.
As water is so important to the city of Baltimore, being on a tributary of Chesapeake Bay. She is also a runner and with the hours she spends daily on her exercise routines, it's a good thing she is not fully employed.
When there's a murder, her rowing friend is a suspect and Tess goes to work as an investigator for his lawyer.
For example, Tess often makes phone calls from pay phones that even in 1997 weren't easy to find.A satisfying mystery, and decent narration.
The narrator makes a decent stab at Baltimore accents for various characters, and it adds to the color.
This month, BN is offering the first book in Lippman's Tess Monaghan series for 99 cents, so I thought I should give her a chance.
I haven't been to Charm City, and I'm sure Baltimore of today is different from the time when they had almost a murder-a-day.
However, I do work in Detroit, and I dearly love that city.
What I saw in this book was almost a love letter to Baltimore.
The city, with its crime and its neighborhoods and its impossible map and local businesses, lives and breathes on the pages of Lippman's book.
Tight writing, realistic characters, a strong setting, well-crafted plot with good red herrings and actual clues: Lippman serves up a solid mystery.
Set in Baltimore in the 90's, Baltimore Blues is a big canvas of loss: the city's loss of identity, the end of the newspaper era, chronic underemployment.
Lippman takes this cast of scroungers, hangers-on, the checked-out, and weaves a strong narrative with everything from serial killers to grifters to scammers, janitors to millionaires.It's not great literature by any means, but it's a damn solid mystery, and I'll be reading more in the series.
Baltimore Blues is the first in Laura Lippman's Tess Monaghan series and very enjoyable.
I like Tess as a hero and Lippman's writing is always first rate.
I also enjoyed the portrayal of Baltimore.In the opening of the series, Tess is still adjusting to losing her job as a reporter and trying to find herself a new job/career.
Tess follows the not-very-nice girlfriend and her trail leads her to corpses and her friend's arrest as a murderer.If this all seems predictable, well, it is somewhat but deftly done and well presented.
Meh never really got into Baltimore Blues. The story follows ex-reporter Tess as she tries to clear her friend's name who is accused of killing his fiancee's boss. I just found the story revolved around Tess just going from person to person and getting them to spill their story. I didn't find it that interesting and the ending wasn't a huge shocker. I won't be continuing the series.
I started this book because Karin Slaughter mentioned Laura Lippman in an interview.
I read Lippman's "The Power of Three" and "I'd Know You Anywhere" prior to this one and I liked it.
But I knew that Lippman is known for her Tess Monaghan series so I was eager to start this one.
When you can't come up with one positive personality trait about the main protagonist, it makes it hard to like the book.
Even though the whole book centers around Tess trying to solve Rock's case, he's barely mentioned after the first few chapters.
Overall, I enjoyed her standalone books a lot more than this one about Tess.
This is a decent start to what looks like a long series, but I was not totally impressed with Tess Monaghan, the main character. She was whiny, self-indulgent and her sense of entitlement set me on edge. She relies on her family and friends to support her and seems to take them all for granted. That said, I didn't hate her and I can see that there is room for major growth for her character. I plan on reading more in this series.
While visiting Baltimore, I asked around for novels set there. Laura Lippman was recommended by all. I enjoyed her descriptions of settings and characters and her great sense of humor. Already well into book two of the series, Charm City.
Overall, I was hoping for more. I had heard a lot about Lippman and was hoping to pick up a new series. But I never really got into the characters and the writing never really drew me in. I imagine if I had started reading these 20+ years ago, I might have enjoyed them at the time and would be fondly looking back on the series. But too late for me.
It has been two years since her newspaper job ended, and she has yet to discover her new "true passion."Meanwhile, she does odd jobs and works in her Aunt Kitty's bookstore, while living upstairs in a tiny apartment.
Could this kind of work be her new passion?But what Tess discovers leads to a series of unfortunate incidents.
A few other casualties along the way make it all seem realistic for a novice detective.I have read and enjoyed several books in this series, and my favorite parts involve Tess in her surroundings, with her friends, while enjoying an insider's view of her world.
Maybe this is my fault for reading books out of order but of course the only other Tess Monaghan book I have read is the one that calls back to the story that unfolds in this book.
So it turns out I already know the ending from reading a later book in the series.
and of course Tess doesn't listen.I made it about 75% through this but since I know "whodunnit" and who kicks the bucket (so to speak) there is no reason for me to waste any more time on this story.
I might avoid Tess Monaghan books going forward.
However, because I have truly enjoyed all other books written by Laura Lippman I gave this book a second chance.
The plot was plausible, the mystery and crime details were good and the I did not figure out the ending halfway through the book.
Based on this, I will give the second book in the series a try before recommending the entire series but if you like crime/PI novels with a strong female lead then I can safely recommend this book to you.
than the book itself but I did not ever connect with the characters or the flow of the storyline.
100 pages later the author has him in a wheelchair.
I kept wondering why he told the main character she had to drive him.
How did he get places before the main character popped into his life??
The other thing I did not care for, and I know it doesn't bother many, but I hate it when marijuana is thrown in for no reason at all.
The main character just needs to smoke a joint!!
Overall I think I would have finished the book had the joint not been introduced two-thirds in.
But that, along with many other holes in the story, I had to put this into the cannot finish category.
I read a criticism of this book by someone who thought the pace was too slow (especially the beginning) and found Tess unlikeable ("whiny").
After the introduction to Tess, perhaps the second in the series (which I'll be reading) picks up speed, but I'm happy reading about the character and building gradually.
I like what the author chooses to insert as she spins the tale, such as defining the grammatical term "appositive."  In context, Tess wonders what appositive (such as "unemployed woman playing at detective") will appear in her obituary as she tries to escape someone bent on killing her.In this book, Tess works to clear a friend from a murder charge.
It’s tricky when you read reviews that might mislead you into forming an opinion about a book before finishing it.
I know south Maryland, but not Baltimore so there were many landmarks to discover via google images, as I often do while reading – and secondly, amateur rowing clubs do not often feature in books either.
So those elements made the book rather original.
Admittedly, the humor was not always spot on, but it gave the book a lighter tone, for sure.One of the major negative points was the editing.
I don't know, was it due to the e-book transcript?
After loving  Laura Lippman's  What the Dead Know, a most satisfying and thoughtful mystery, I tracked down more of her writing, and to my pleasure found that she has a series of mysteries set in Baltimore and centered around an ex-journalist (by layoff, not by choice), Tess Mongahan.
There's a great sense of place throughout the book through Tess's love of rowing and her working-class Irish/Jewish heritage in the city.
I accidentally picked up the third one,  Butcher Hill, and feel like I missed some developments in Tess's life, so I'm off to track down #2.
Lippman has been on my to read list for a bit.
I read her essay in The Wire: Truth Be Told and then found out about her relationship with David Simon.
When Amazon discounted this to under a dollar, I didn't have an excuse not to read it.Is it the best mystery I've read?
No. But it does make me want to read others in the series.Tess, the central character, is human.
At times stupid, insecure, smart, she is well drawn.
The mystery is compelling, and the characters real.
At times, there are beautiful touches of humor.
Tess Monaghan, a reporter and victim of downsizing, is trying to make ends meet by working in her aunt's bookstore (and living at her store).
She's a serious rower and meets her buddy Rocky each morning for their training session followed by a companionable breakfast.
Rocky asks Tess to do him a favour, he'll hire her to follow his fiance because there's something up, and he can't figure it out.
Tess' surveillance definitely turns up something fishy.
It turns out that Tess really doesn't like Ava but she thinks that if she confronts Ava then she'll have to sort stuff out.
She's hoping for a good outcome for her buddy Rocky.
Mysteries with female detectives are my potato chips - I speed through them and then feel a little sick afterwards. I like this Tess Monaghan and her Baltimore. Lippman isn't afraid to show some of the grittiness of the city while also showing its neighborhoods and the working people in them. I look forward to reading more of the series (and they're winging their way to me from Paperbackswap as we speak!).
It was ok. Not memorable to me. I liked Every Secret Thing and thought I'd try something else by the author. It was also free to listen to on my library app, Hoopla. I didn't pay close attention to it in the last 1/4. I was anxious to end it and move onto something else. Thus the 3 stars.
Such a chore to read. I've never been more relieved to finish a book. The mystery isn't strong enough to hold you. The suspense is non-existent. I've read other Lippman books and wanted to try her mystery series. I may try the next in this series but this first one was a big disappointment!
