https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/583837.Health_Guide
Ганди, все-таки, как ни крути, вождь.
С абсолютной непоколебимостью он отвергает врачей, но дает советы как лечить простуду и бубонную чуму.
Он настаивает, что язык, который мы балуем разными вкусами, необходимо усмирить, и это позволит обуздать все остальные страсти, при этом считает, что фрукты и сладкая манная каша - самая правильная еда, соль -вредна, а без неё невкусны овощи, каши и бобовые, но их есть и необязательно, в них и так ничего полезного нет.
Мы, все же избалованы информацией.
В книге их нет, но есть мнение Гуру, скромного и авторитарного.P.S. Совершенно прекрасно мне показалось слово в защиту змей.
Merely served the reason I bought it. Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi has mentioned about this book in his autobiography, The Story of My Experiments With Truth.The description of this book was too much to be expected. Ever paragraph in the book, has the word 'pure air', 'pure water' and 'pure food'. Its no guide to health, its a guide to waste money. Not at all worth the cost.
This was a very interesting look at health told through the lens on what was understood in the 1920's. What is most interesting is that so many things made sense. Eat moderately, mostly whole foods, get exercise as its good for the mind and body.....Hmm, sound familiar? Of course the section on sexual health was very interesting and dated but overall this was a rather intriguing view of how health topics were viewed during this time period. And most interesting is that a lot of these thoughts aren't "dated" at all but just good old common sense!
No more uninformed than the rest of society at the time, and perhaps no more uninformed than today's society, there did exist a few nuggets of common sense. By the time I hit chapter two I decided to read it as an historical comedy, which lightened my mood. I have great respect for Gandhi's regard for mankind, a care so deep that he chose to write and research as best he could to help.
very insightful treatise on health
Gandhi explores the science of health available to him through experience and scientific theory.
Gandhi provides a detailed disclaimer at the start of the book, stating that he is not a doctor and the text was written with the "noblest of intentions." This, I believe, to be true.
Many of the theories remain true today, and were in fact, ahead of its time.
The text fails to comprehend some of the basic notions of science available at the time.
Medicine at the time, was advanced enough to understand how vaccinations work, and how 'dirty blood' was a belief in the early 19th century.
Read this book for school. It was motivational book to be healthy and pursue a balanced life at first, but the second half of the book was purely bleh. My eyes kept on darting here and there to find what’s actually important and not just utter chatter.
afwgf4ffw
This book is based on medical facts available before 60-70 years. Impractical and not relevant today.For example, he have mentioned vaccination are not required.
I didn't know Mahatma Gandhi wrote a book on health. He does emphasize that he had no formal medical training, yet the information he presents here still holds true today. Some of the points are old wives' tales, but that doesn't distract from the inform
