https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227590.The_Other_Daughter
I read a lot during a holiday commute and could not put it down.Melanie has been adopted into a troubled, rich family who hold many secrets.
She’s always felt loved by her grieving mum, her troubled brother, her hard working but gruff father, and lastly her seemingly loving Godfather.
Refusing to believe there could be trouble in this weird paradise.The moment things start going pear-shaped we meet FBI Agent David Griffin, the character I most loved to read about.
He has a past all of his own (as don’t they all?!) and patiently helps Melanie work out the murky waters that are her adopted family.
This book had me glued to every single page from the very start to the end.This was a great and entertaining suspense story, full of suspicion, danger, and many puzzles to solve.
This book gave me the chills while I was reading far into the night and the storyline kept me guessing constantly all the way through.
Moreover, there were a lot of twists and turns that never stopped surprising me again and again.The Other Daughter had everything I could possibly want in suspense story: great plot, interesting and well-developed characters, and good twist ending.
I absolutely enjoyed reading this book!
Another great book by Lisa Gardner. Likeable characters, a believable love interest and an intriguing mystery make this a very readable book! It was very hard to put down. A nice little twist at the end meant that even though I had guessed the person who had committed the crime, the crime was not what I thought it was. Very clever! Highly recommended if you enjoy a good crime story.
This is not the first book that I read by Lisa Gardner and it's a good thing.
She's adopted by the Stokes, parents of Meagan Stokes, one of the girls the serial killer has confessed to killing.
Years later, a reporter down on his luck shows up at the Stokes home and tells Melanie that he believes she's the serial killer's daughter.
There's the recovering alcoholic mother, the awesome god-father who halfway through the book isn't so charming but runs guns.
The profiler from Quantico not only has no problem talking to the FBI agent over speaker phone, he's okay with letting Melanie hear the entire thing as well.
It's as though I've read a totally different book.
The characters in this book are unbelievable.
My mind just had a really hard time creating a picture of him because there were so many details about him that were at odds with each other.The drama surrounding Melanie and her quest to find out who she really is just made me gag.
But everyone acting like, "oh, poor Melanie, we should have protected her.
Like I said, very unbelievable.I really thought this was an awful book.
She knows she is lucky because she is adopted, and never gave thought to her real parents.
Her sister Meagan was murdered 20 years ago, by the child serial killer Russell Lee Holmes.Melanie starts to ask about her sister, she has memory loss, can not remember anything prior to her adoption.
She starts to question her family, coming up on dead ends.
She wonders if she really is loved, who are her "parents" and can this crazy man be her biological father?
Lisa Gardner knows how to draw in a reader and keep you hanging on until the last page.
All night reading suspense.
Melanie Stokes was found in an empty Boston hospital room at the age of 9 with no memory of her life before then, or knowledge of her name.
;)I also used to read stuff like this all the time between the ages of 12-21 haha
I found that Lisa developed her characters extraordinarily well in what is usually only a plot-driven genre, namely crime fiction.I like Lisa Gardner as much as I like Tess Gerritsen, which is saying something, I like Tell a hell of a lot, and I find the two authors very similar, they write the same genre in a very addictive and compelling way.
As I said previously, with Tess Gerritsen, standalone or serial novel, I like / adore the characters she dreams up, with Lisa in this instance, I didn't.The writing is as good as ever, flows from one page to the next making compulsive reading but I just didn't like it as much.
My favorite part in the book......"Melanie, have you ever had a turning point in your life?
I know your're only twenty-nine, but have you ever felt yourself at a crossroads, when suddenly all of life was murky, and even though you can't see the landscape and you're not sure where you're going, you know you must take a step.
In the right direction.Once again Lisa Gardner has blown me away with another story of total suspense!!!
Blood and guts, cow tounges wrapped in packages and delivered to your front door.
Pig guts and a penis and balls floating in a jar.
Well, discovered that while I am still a big Lisa Gardner fan, so far it is really only her books featuring D. D. Warren that rate 4 stars from me. (Police procedurals are among my favorite genre anyway, and D. D. Warren is an interesting and strong character; in fact all the main characters are so well developed that I not only think I know them, I care about them). This one - thought the plot was unbelievable, and eventually I just wanted to get through it and move on.
Her books always leave me guessing until the last few pages and she knows how to write a suspense novel and keep it entertaining and keep you engaged through the whole book.My first book I ever read by her was The Third Victim.
Russell Lee Holmes is going to be put to death for murdering children.
The book didn't have much romance or a lot about their relationship until towards the end but there was a little and I loved it.
What can I say, i'm a helpless romantic.This is for sure a must read and I had the story figured out by page 362 and then my mouth dropped open and I said "ooooh".
Very complicated plot in which a father pretended his daughter had been kidnapped, then murdered, in order to collect a million-dollar ransom on her when she was four years old.
His best friend was his accomplice and they involved a convicted killer and the killer's wife in complicated ways.
The best friend kep Meagan for five years out of sight, then somehow erased her memory with drugs and she miraculously appears, in a hospital where her father works, as an "orphan" and is "adopted" as Melanie by her real family.
The whole novel is about someone wanting the truth to come out--ahhh--the best friend--who really was Meagan's biological father.
I love how Lisa Gardner gets right off to action in most of her books!
And this one did not disappoint!
You start off with an exacution and move right into the life of Melanie Sstokess adopted 9 year without a past.
There are several key players that each have a significant part in Melanie's life past present and future.
There is not a dull moment in this book.
Of course you got a little romance mixed into this action packed drama!
If you enjoy who done it's and disfuntional families this is the book for you!
De schrijfstijl van deze schrijfster ligt mij minder goed.
A decent thriller (a bit dated). I discovered Lisa Gardner the last few years, so I'm reading some of her backlist. I really love her books, but this one isn't her best.
Her life is saved, but she has no memory of who she is or where she is from & no one turns up to claim her.She is adopted by Boston Hospital’s Hot-shot cardio-thoracic surgeon Dr. Harper Stokes & his wife who are desperately trying to get over the loss of their little daughter Megan, who was brutally murdered by a psychopathic serial killer Russell Lee Holmes.They name their new daughter Melanie.
Next David accompanies her to a meeting with the sleazy reporter and saves her life when an unknown gunman turns up.While someone is desperate to bring the dark secrets of the Stokes to light, there is also someone who will stop at nothing to make sure it does not happen!
The setup for the mystery was bizarre but compelling: Melanie, 29, was adopted at the age of 9 by a family who had lost their first daughter.
Melanie is almost murdered.
It's hard to review mystery novels because a lot hinges on the reveal and I can't tell you about that without spoiling the book.
When the ending came and all the details were revealed I felt the same way -- that it didn't quite add up.
My biggest problem was the fact that Melanie was adopted as a 9-year-old with no memories.
Russell Lee Holmes murdered 6 young children, and the state of Texas is executing him for his crimes.
One Of the children Holmes has confessed to murdering is Meagan Stokes, the daughter of a Texas physician and his wife.
She fills the gaping void left by the murder of her "sister" Meagan.So begins the story of the Stokes family.
And then a series of strange events begin to happen starting with the arrival in town of the reporter who originally covered Russell Lee Holmes and his crimes.
The implication is that Melanie Stokes is the child of Russell Lee Holmes.
When FBI Agent David Reese appeared on the scene, in the guise of a waiter, the past began to filter through.
All those years, Melanie hadn’t remembered anything, but suddenly she was having visions, and they were scaring her, and not making a lot of sense.
Why did someone out there seem determined to have Melanie remember her past?As Melanie desperately searches for her identity, Agent Pierce Quincy becomes involved, the first body appears and suddenly time is running out!
However, I must admit that for me the plot was a little bit too far fetched, which took away a lot of the enjoyment and the suspense, despite its action-packed finale.
I think that basing the whole plot on the protagonist’s amnesia is always a bit troublesome – especially when the character then conveniently remembers things just in the right moments of the story … not very credible, I’m afraid.
When Melanie finally solves the mystery of her origins, I felt that the outcome was no better than any of the alternatives (not saying any more, as I do not want to give anything away).
Another Lisa Gardner book under wraps!
All that aside, I had my suspicions, I was forever trying to think one step ahead to find out who had killed Meagan and how that all tied in with Melanie.
Even when people started telling the truth, I was doubtful because you never believe people in a Lisa Gardner book.
Only when you turn the last page do you know that the truth is really the truth.I loved David - what a great character.
I loved him and Melanie together.
I think he really made this book for me.This was yet another solid read from Gardner.
Twenty years ago, Melanie Stokes was abandoned in a Boston hospital, then adopted by a wealthy couple.
Until tonight.Melanie has no memory of her life before the adoption.
As Melanie desperately searches for her real identity, two seemingly unrelated events from the past will come together in a dangerous explosion of truth.As Melanie pursues every lead and chases after shadows in search of her real identity.
Two seemingly unrelated events will come together in a dangerous explosion of truth.
And with her life at stake Melanie will come to fear the family she loves maybe the people she should trust the least!
Drama, drama, soap opera, plot twist, drama , drama, drama, soap opera, plot twist, Oh! Wow! Didn't see that coming!
How a 9 year old girl can turn up at a hospital with no memory of the her life up and until the age of 9 only to be adopted by a well to do surgeon who is under suspicion and investigation by the FBI of fitting dodgy pacemakers on the way to make his fortune this is a stretch for anyone's imagination.
Add to this that the adopted girl is the daughter of a notorious serial killer who as (bad) luck would have it had killed the surgeon's younger daughter and now the adopted daughter is confronted with fact almost 20 years after the event.
I had this paper back on my shelves forever and something just made me pick it up to read. Wow I was blown away the writing was great, the story was great and I loved all the characters in!! Took some time to figure this one and and man it was worth it. I will be reading more of Lisa Gardner's work from now on, really enjoyed it!!!
The book started out pretty good. I was intrigued by the events as they unfolded. But the ending turned into a bad Lifetime movie. Too many coincidences, especially how every one ended up in the exact same place.
One of Lisa Gardner's best books. The reveal in the last 50 pages was WOW. Murder, greed and what it does to a family. Another page turner.
What can I say, other than I don’t think there is another book with more twists. A book that is hard to put down.
Good, brainless, murder-mystery fun!
Excellent readAmazing story lines. Found so hard to actually put down. No spoilers but all I'll say is the story leads you a lot to quickly change then when case is solved, I was shocked. 10/10
