https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/185908.Time_Bomb
Great series! a little bit of everything: mystery,romance etc..well researched,by looking into the Holocaust History and descendants of its victims..plus extra storyline/topics..it is very well written (paperback!)
Some books he’s in the background but here we get plenty of the pairing working together – a win.Taking a break from Robin is still fine since she was always a little doll-like to me anyway, but Linda isn’t a huge improvement since she has so many hang-ups it’s almost off-putting.
It’s refreshing the author puts in ups and downs in the individual lives of his characters to keep them fresh instead of just game pieces who are there to solve crimes.
There’s also some unique villains and side characters who make the book shine.
Great series! a little bit of everything: mystery,romance etc...well researched,by looking into the Holocaust History and descendants of its victims...plus extra storyline/topics..well written (paperback!)
After a failed school shooting, in which no children were killed but the female sniper was, Alex is called in to counsel the traumatized students. The shooter is atypical, with no clear motives as to why she would attempt such a horrible act, until Alex digs deeper. Then a convoluted Neo-Nazi conspiracy is revealed, and Milo helps take out the bad guys. Alex begins to date someone else in this book, Linda whom he meets at the school, and for awhile she is a welcome change from Robin.
If you want something to help you go to sleep then read "Time Bomb," which, to put it bluntly, is a real bomb. One word best summarizes it, however, and that is "boring." For one, the story is implausible; two, Alex Delaware comes across as pompous; and, three, Milo Sturgis plays a very small part in the story and Milo is by far Kellerman's best character. In fact, now that I have reconsidered my rating, one star would be more appropriate.
The stupidity of law enforcement refusing to share information with each other.The truth about Dobbs' need to be involved in "helping" the children is disgusting, as is Massengil's involvement.
I do love how Alex took that Mendez down.By using first person protagonist point-of-view, we get Alex's perspective, and I gotta say I loved his verbal beatdowns on the politicians, Dobbs, his assessment of Holly's father, and that REALLY tense scene at the end.
Pete and Mrs Buchanan's son, Matthew, is easily led.Holly Lynn Burden, who had been a student at Nathan Hale, is described as slightly above retarded in a family of intellectually superior people.
3.5 starsAfter reading 5 books in Alex Delaware series I get the formula down to the "t".
Like this one, starting from a 'simple' shooting at school, and the shooter was shot, and it developed into something related to "Nazi" principles of white supremacist.Yeah.
That.But I still enjoyed it -- mainly because Milo played quite a nice role here (he always made the book more fun somehow) and I actually liked the 'break' that Alex took from Robin (somehow that woman didn't rock my sock).
Unabridged audio from Penguin 2014 thru OverDriveUnabridged ebook from Random House 2003 thru OverDriveThe audio book was missing 5-10%.
Liberal lexicon and math if that is 'unabridged'I came to this series having seen the 1986 TV movie "When the bough breaks" when first shown.It was an excellent movie with Ted Danson as Alex and Richard Masur as Milo.I wasn't disappointed with the first two books then the newness wore off and the irritation began.Goodreads genre omits that his work is: fashion commentary, architectural commentary, romance.
and anything that he may have a tangential thought about.
In the 2-5 stories that would continue, he continued to describe many beautiful details, but often his description of roads and neighborhoods, would become less intimate as he as a writer perhaps got a little lazier, or maybe couldn't find descriptions he had not already written in past stories as Deleware and Sturgis had driven down many of these same streets in previous adventures, or also probably presumed that most readers of books three through five in his series had already been down these famous LA streets at least once in their lives before.The 20year old me who read this book first time around had never been within a 2500 mile radius of those streets and LA was only a dream.
Child psychologist Jonathan Kellerman writes complex murder mysteries featuring his alter ego, Alex Delaware.
Time Bomb, published in 1990, was the fifth in the series—and the first I found disappointing.The set-up in Time Bomb is much like that of the earlier entries: to help children after a school shooting, Alex finds himself drawn further and further into a murder mystery.
Working with his friend, LAPD detective Milo Sturgis—though taking the lead himself—Alex weaves these disparate threads into a logical set of relationships that don't become clear until the end of the book.As in the preceding novels, the tension steadily mounts, the complexities become progressively more confusing, and both Alex and Milo's lives are threatened, but all comes out well following a violent climax.
While Ike’s case is fascinating, it feels as if he replaces Holly as the most important subject of investigation, which while logical since she looks as if she’s a perpetrator, also feels a little unfair, especially when we learn more about her.Time Bomb is also the first book where we see Alex and Milo do a lot of detecting together, with Alex actually tagging along to crime scenes.
, in Time Bomb Alex and Robin have ended their relationship and aren’t really in contact anymore at the start of the book.
I really enjoy the Alex Delaware series by Jonathan Kellerman. This particular book had a great beginning and great ending. A little slow in the middle. Almost like he (Kellerman) was trying to stretch out the book. That's why I only give it three stars. Otherwise a great story. Still worth reading!
For the first 50 pages, I wasn't certain I would like this book.
Revelation, answers, are left until the last 50 pages, so the readers are asked to trust the author not to leave them hanging.
Given that this is the fifth book in the series, trust is not a hardship.A recurrent theme in Kellerman novels is discrimination, and this one is especially rife with racism and bigotry.
The villains in this one are especially smarmy, and the reader delights in seeing them receive their comeuppance.More than any other Delaware novel, this one made me anxious to research post-reading.
It is convenient for authors that history has given us some eternal bad guys. Stalin, General Mao, Nero, Attila, and of course, our favorite bad guy, the one with no vindicating qualities at all: Adolph Hitler. No author can go wrong when he uses Hitler or a Hitler-esque figure as his villain. Neo-Nazis have a universally approved stamp of evil. And even if the occasional reader feels a certain amount of sympathy for the skinheads, public opinion keeps his mouth shut expect for in the most sele
It is convenient for authors that history has given us some eternal bad guys.
Therefore, Johnathan Kellerman’s Time Bomb started out with a winning formula.
It has other elements as well that contributed to a page-turning readability.
He then adds a few truly likeable conscientious characters: good cop, self-aware shrink, and committed principal There is history, intrigue, a touch of sex, and a hint of comedy and poof!
– a page-turner is born.
I won’t pretend to laud Time Bomb with unwarranted Nobel laurels.
However, it nothing more than a good thriller with a surprisingly long dénouement.
*Audiobook* Like many of the recent Alex Delaware novels I have read, this one requires a certain suspension of disbelief.
This author certainly likes his elaborate conspiracies, and this book is no exception.
In this case we start with Delaware in his natural element, treating a group of kids who have been terrorized by an aborted sniping attempt.
As Delaware attempts to figure out the why behind the crime we get swept up in an elaborate investigation that involves radical groups from the 60's, the Holocaust, and corrupt politicians.
Still pretty entertaining although it made me shake my head in sheer disbelief a few times.
Last month I read one of the latest Delaware installments and realized I'd missed a few (or 7-8) along the way, so I decided to go back and read the missed books. So glad I did!!While the technology has changed (cell phones missing and computers not the norm), the chemistry between pals Milo and Alex reminded me why I liked this series. And the story itself was richer and more layered than some recent entries in the series. What started as one kind of mystery turned into something altogether different and more interesting. On to the next oldie I missed!
7/10. Ja sākumā liekas, ka viss virzās uz priekšu lineāri, tad beigas ir liels sazvērestību mudžeklis. Par laimi varoņiem, pat nonākušiem ļaunīšu gūstā, izdodas to visu atrisināt.
Liked it fine! Milo is his usual charming self too!!
Written in 1990, it highlights the beliefs at the time - starting with one of the assemblymen who was present at the shooting wanting to bring in his own TV personality-type psychologist to treat the kids and have Alex removed from the case because he's afraid Alex is going to catch being gay from Milo and pass it on to the students as if it were the flu.
Still, I'll keep going with the series as I know I read some of the future books when I was younger and really enjoyed them.
Easy to read book.
It was written in the late 80's and certainly conspiracy theories were abundant back then, especially right wing groups like Mark from Michigan and the Montana Freeman.
They were all groups, but no where close to the type of organization as portrayed in this book.
Adding insult to the story was Mr. Burden - he is like some type of government spy in his own right, but strictly independent.
The bad guys were way to organized, plus they were far to powerful for a private organization with no government behind them.
And the good guy wasn't the cops, it was Burden and his partner.
Old friends, new lovers, publicity seekers, and Nazis all play key roles as Alex Delaware administers to the psychological needs of school children traumatized by a sniper shooting at their school. As usual, the story includes history lessons and discussion of social caring issues, aspects of this series that I enjoy as much as the thrilling mysteries. I also enjoy his visits to the medical library at UCLA.
Detective Milo Sturgis asked for consultation help from dr. Alex Delaware after a sniper attack on a school ground. Further investigation shows a more sinister plot that's just waiting to blast. Like a time bomb.Jonathan Kellerman is truly a master story-teller. The story is interesting with a plot that cannot be imagined from the beginning.
Alex at his bestAlex is called on to help with a school shooting incident. What follows is a master class in twist and turn storytelling. Heart strings are pulled on many levels, Alex has a new love, his friendship with Milo and his compassion for children all woven into a story of hate and revenge.Brilliant
GoodThe book like others of his kept you in the dark. Thinking you knew where it was going only to learn that you did not. The introduction of new people into the story such as the grandmother and the grandson also was surprising. I thought maybe the girls dad would finally be found guilty of something that did not happen. Enjoyed it as I do most of his
I don't know if it was my state of mind or the book itself, but this one was really hard to get into. It was long, but I feel like it took me forever to read. Not one of the better ones in this series.
This was well written, edge-on-the-seat reading!Dr. Alex Delaware and Detective Milo Sturgis are pulled this way and that in this fast-paced thriller. Another great novel by Johnathan Kellerman!
Early in the Alex Delaware series. I came to this series late and occasionally catch up on older books. It's odd to jump back in time and see the character development (and texh development) through the series. Not my favorite in the series, but a fun read.
3 stars out of 5 - I listened to this on CDs during drive times. A reasonably competent whodunit/thriller, but not one of Kellerman's best. Deus ex machina twists are not bad per se, but in this case he goes too far. This is one of his earlier books so perhaps he was experimenting.
An excellent Alex Delaware novel. Haven't read any for ages and found that the author has retained his characters and developed them even more. If you want a thrilling read, read this novel. In my opinion this is one of his best and a brilliant read.
It was ok like many of his early stories they seem to wander around alot more with difficulty seeing how some of the stuff ties in the the main plotline. I just enjoy the ones with the inter-play with Milo and Alex better. Plus Alex is pretty whiny when he and Robin are at outs.
