https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11600163-the-litigators
One can't help but chuckle at the law firm of Finley & Figg.
Zinc has been a successful associate of a big downtown law firm when he has a complete meltdown.
When he finally gets into a taxi, he notices a billboard sign for the law firm Finley & Figg and he tells the driver that that is his destination.
And all the elements of Grisham's latest book are now in play.
How will the law firm of Finley & Figg and their new associate handle the growing class action suit against Varrick??
Here is my "Audible.com review"Please let me rant: Until the big courtroom scene, I do not believe the words of this book were written by JG.
The trial, as expected, was an exercise in futility, but it served the purpose of trotting out beautiful, intelligent women for big corporate (read: bad guys) to ogle and demean.The saving grace, in the last 40 minutes of 11 hours was another fiasco.
anyway, I do not know if an author gets to prep the reader or even review the reading but this guy mispronounced words -- specifically Chicago words.
because it ended up being a non stop read for me - I picked it up on a Sunday morning and turned the last page late (late) that night.I was hooked from the opening pages.
David Zinc has toiled away at a prestigious law firm in relative obscurity for the last five years.
It seems simple enough......and that's enough of the plot given away.What made The Litigators a non stop read?
Wally and Oscar's tactics are cringe worthy, their actions walk a fine line between working for the law and breaking it, but you just can't help rooting for them in this David and Goliath fight.
When I first began reading John Grisham’s The Litigators I was immediately drawn into it.
Oscar, the senior partner in Finley and Figg law offices situated on the West Side of Chicago, is a conservative jaded attorney who prides himself as a proverbial ambulance chasing attorney seeking the easy way to make a fast buck.
The Litigators presents a very graphic account – using drama, humor, suspense, and sarcasm – to present a very entertaining and sometimes predictable picture, especially if you read Grisham’s King of Torts.
(In fact, I didn’t realize he was back to writing legal fiction.) The Litigators started out rather promising; it lacked the intensity of earlier Grishams but it was also surprisingly hilarious.
The rest of the book has none of the charm it starts with and one can almost hear the crackling on the line reading the last few chapters as Grisham phones it in.
It’s like someone decided this book could only be 385 pages long and there was a major “oh shit” moment at page 300.
I probably shouldn’t complain too much about the female stereotypes as his legal books are generally more about the story than the characters.
After a decade of abandonment, two things happened: 1) I met Mr. Grisham several times and determined he needed another chance and 2) I heard that The Litigators was a return to his roots.
I disagree with "return to his roots" but the book was enjoyable.The law firm of Finley & Figg is not glamorous.
However, in typical Grisham fashion, he did make me think about the motivations behind actions.For me, the most glaring short fall was that this took place in Chicago.
However, I think I need to come to grips with the fact that Mr. Grisham's early works were simply outstanding and a hard bar to meet again.
While he has had a few 'less than stellar' books of late, Grisham delivers with a stong story steeped in legal jargon in this latest novel.
I was hooked from page one and remain baffled at how he can write so fluidly about all sorts of legal topics.While we have seen Grisham delve into the litigious side of the law in past thrillers, this one takes on a new angle.
The HUGE American drug manufacturers are salivating with all their successes and the question remains, could this latest drug be doing more harm?
This is a most enjoyable book, about David Zinc, a lawyer who got fed up with his job in a huge, fancy law firm.
He got drunk, then joined up with a two-man law firm that specialized in ambulance chasing, DUI's, and quick divorces.
This small firm had a weak grasp of ethical behavior.
Zinc suffers a spectacular drop in salary, but sees an unusual opportunity, and grabs it.Along comes the potential for a huge class action suit against a drug company.
The small firm gets involved, hoping to avoid doing any real work.
Prior to reading this book a few years back, I'd grown disillusioned with Grisham's books, the recent ones like The Brethren, a book as agonizing as absurd.
I thought perhaps he'd worn out, bored out or his ideas petered out.For his first half-dozen years, he stropped his writing skills on the legal profession, slugging Big Business and sellout lawyers with a succession of suspenseful, at least plausible, blockbusters exploring legal issues just then hitting press.
Much like a sustained thrum, and once a year, out came another NYT #1 bestseller in which Grisham delivered another upper left hook.
And while that take works in the first several chapters, it begins to wear a bit thin by the middle third of the book and I rapidly found myself losing patience with the story down the home stretch.It's the story of a Finley & Figg, a lower scale firm that could best described as ambulance chasers.
He also casts his lot with a big name litigation firm to try and put some fear into the company.Onto the scene of Finley & Figg comes David Zinc, a young lawyer at a corporate firm.
On the one hand we have the smartly turned out, Harvard educated mice frantically scurrying on their wheel for hour after hour.
These rats do what they can to survive, and if they have to chase ambulances to do so or grease outstretched palms, well so be it.One day at the wheel, mouse David Zinc has a bit of a crisis and escapes.
David knows much about "high-yield, long-term bonds issued by foreign governments and corporations" but as, in that job, he never saw the inside of a court room he is out of his league and has to learn fast.
This book was great....went through a bit of a ho-hum section, but the ending was fantastic...couldn't read it fast enough!!!!
I don't know why, but I never fully got into him & that harmed the story.
Well worth reading if you've ever considered joining a class action lawsuit or hiring a lawyer for any sort of suit.
Well timed for me since I was recently asked to join a ludicrous class action suit (Did I buy/use specific model(s) of hard drive between 2003-2008?
Does anyone know specifics about 10-15 year old tech?
I'll definitely read more by Grisham, but I think I'll stick to those books my GR friends give 4 stars to.
Hours later, David stumbles out of the bar and into a cab and then finds himself on the doorstep of the law firm of Finley and Figg in one of the city's less than desirable neighborhoods.
Oscar and Wally run out and attempt to recruit clients from among the victims and in the aftermath, David convinces them to hire him.
Oscar and David have serious reservations about the whole idea, but Wally insists that it's a can't-miss proposition and before long, the visions of a giant financial windfall overpower the better judgment of the other two members of the firm.
This is a look at the underbelly of law, at both ends of the spectrum.
At one end you have the corporate sharks, hired guns of the big boys of business and finance.
But slowly I became invested in David Zinc and his story.
Written with more humor than is usual for Mr. Grisham, the story line plodded a bit, then took off running about half way through.
And I always appreciate his willingness to expose the seedy side of the law.
Ultimately it's the big one against the little one and while predictable, it was an enjoyable and even educational read.
At first  The Litigators  seems ridiculous, lawyers running after (or causing) car accidents, but then the story picks up when David Zinc begins to look into the lead poisoning of a young, Burmese boy (whose name escapes me right now).
The novel would have been much better if it had focused on the lead poisoning and the impact of the poisoning on the Burmese family.
Instead,  The Litigators  falls flat as "get-rich-quick" scheme of a story and lacks any seriousness and suspense that readers are used to with John Grisham.
Why this book should probably have never been published:1.
Must we describe her attire and 4-inch stilettos every time she enters the courtroom?3.
Eye-rollingly (yes, that's a word) predictable plot, from the boring Krayoxx case to the "I didn't see that coming!
Oh wait, yes I did." sub-plot.4.
This will not be made into a movie with Tom Cruise sprinting down an empty street at night, briefcase full of sensitive, damning materials in hand.As a quick read when you're just trying to pass the time (think plane/train/automobile), this may do, but only if you've read everything else on the underwhelming shelves of Hudson News.
Delightful, humorous, sometimes exciting, lots of the fascinating legal detail that is Grisham's trademark ... lawyers working hard, falling short and succeeding ... much greed and some (surprising) altruism ... Definitely an enjoyable read.
3.5 If not for the mistakes with Chicago locations, and I expected better research from Grisham, this book would have been a solid 4. That said I did enjoy the story and the fantastic characters
An enjoyable romp. Occasionally I overdose on epic fantasy and need something to clear the cobwebs. This did the trick! Not Grisham's best but not his worst either.
This is my first time reading a John Grisham novel.
Based on what I read from book reviews here in goodreads wherein sometimes reviewers compared authors or they sometimes mentioned their favorite authors, I had this idea that John Grisham wrote serious novels.
There are parts that for me are really funny like there's this scene that they need to put a Russian doctor on the witness stand out of desperation.What I really like about it is that I learned a lot of things about the legal system and about lawyers in America.
How was it like working in a law firm and all these things lawyers do to make money.
Πόσο μου είχε λείψει η γραφή του Grisham και ένα δικαστικό βιβλίο, για αλλαγή μετά από τόσα αστυνομικά, δε λέγεται.Ευχάριστο, γρήγορο, κυλάει απρόσκοπτα και σε βάζει στον κόσμο των μεγαλοδικηγόρων αλλά και σε αυτόν των δικηγόρων του δρόμου, στο Σικάγο. Ο John Grisham αποτελεί εγγύηση όταν μιλάμε για δικηγόρους και πολιτική, χρόνια τώρα. 5 αστέρια από εμένα, μέχρι το επόμενο...Μ.
Not sure why I bothered except it came in off the hold list at the library and I wanted a change of pace. I held on to the end because I knew there would be some sort of redemption, but mostly it was insufferable stuff about the short-sighted greed of, in this case, plaintiffs' personal injury lawyers. Now on to Bernie Madoff and The Wizard of Lies. No nonfiction for the greediness there!
I was out visiting family and came across this,which my nephew,who is a newly minted lawyer,had on h
I do have some good lawyer jokes though.With all that out of the way let me say I enjoyed the heck out of this audio book and it served me well on long car trips.Right off the bat Dennis Boutsikaris does a very nice job with the audio portion of this audio book.
Boutsikaris was a great voice for this and I was pleased by the quality of his contribution.As for the book portion of the audio book, Grisham presents the reader/listener with a very colorful cast.
Grisham does a great job having the characters play off against each other and giving relationships a deep sense of history.
I haven’t touched a John Grisham novel since the summer of 2008.
After a good stint where I read and enjoyed over a half dozen of his works, “The Appeal” stopped me cold.
That book was so incredibly anti-corporation and its characters were so unbelievably stereotypical—with the valiant and poor lawyers fighting against those evil and selfish corporate overlords—I couldn’t make it through it.
In fact, I didn’t want to believe Grisham wrote it.
I couldn’t get rid of the book quick enough.With that said, this Christmas I received “The Litigators” as a gift unexpectedly (meaning I hoped for a different author, different book).
“The Litigators” is much more balanced novel.
Aside from having an identifiable writing style and having created a genre (legal thrillers), I actually think that Grisham is a pretty good writer.
My best evidence of this would be some of his more recent efforts, like Playing for Pizza (a washed up NFL quarterback ends up playing in Italy - no lawyers in sight) or The Confession (which tackles the difficult issue of capital punishment in a touching way).To be fair, my best evidence that Grisham's books are a guilty pleasure with limited literary merit is that the characters and plots of his two dozen or so legal thrillers all blend into each other in my head.
It has been a long time since I have read a really good John Grisham novel, most likely due to the fact that it's been so long since he's actually written a really good novel.
I read his first four, became a devoted fan until somewhere around "The Brethren" and it's been a pretty steady downward spiral ever since.
But "The Litigators" sounded and just felt more like his usual style.
It still didn't have the page-turning suspense of his earlier novels, but it was funny, well-written and except for a few boring pages during the trial, it was very entertaining.
This was just a story . . . about lawyers . . . not particulary good lawyers . . . doing lawyer stuff. Sometimes they make good choices, but more often than not they make bad choices and bad things happen to them. In the end there is some resolution and you say "oh, that's nice". Easy to read and enjoyable, but not particulary complex or mind blowing.
The Litigators by John Grisham is an entertaining read. You expect legal ease language but you also get a plot that is centred around well developed characters. The characters, especially David are likeable and realistic. Grisham has sprinkled humour throughout this novel.
