https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149606.When_Eight_Bells_Toll
Back in the early eighties, between my 12th and 15th years, I read numerous Alistair MacLean novels as well as Jack Higgins, Colin Forbes, Hammond Innes, Desmond Bagley and Ian Fleming.
Eventually I got rid of the books and ,in many respects, forgot about them.
A few weeks ago I came across a mint copy of  When Eight Bells Toll  in a local thrift shop.
I opened the book and read that terrific first page - which I hadn't fogotten.
I like this book.
To use a rather dated expression this is a real crackerjack adventure novel.
I'm going to have to look for a few more of MacLean's novels.
What a good story! From the first page there is action that only stops long enough to make one hold his breath. Nonstop! And besides, how refreshing to read a rugged spy novel without any profanity! I had forgotten that they exist. I'll have to read a few more from MacLean.
It starts with an vivid, but accurate description of the Peacemaker Colt and what effects it should have when it's trained on a man.
The pace picks up from there and doesn't stop till the end.I was expecting what I call the "MacLean effect" to be diminished since I was re-reading this book, and I am not a teenager any more.
Turns out that the old man's still got it.
This timeless, fast-paced, modern-day pirates on the sea action-thriller is filled with memorable characters.
Still not as good as Night Without End or Guns of Navarone, but good enough to satisfy your action-thriller craving.
When you hear the name Alistair MacLean, you think of "Where Eagles Dare" and "The Guns of Navarone." For some reason, perhaps because of the movies made on the other two books, this fabulous novel by MacLean has been lost in history.
And that's a shame because it is on the level of "Where Eagles Dare." Like other authors of his generation, MacLean frequently uses attribution adverbs (i.e., "he said angrily") and verbs ("he coughed").
MacLean is the master of pace, reversals, and mystery, and "When Eight Bells Toll" doesn't disappoint.
Just when you think you have it figured out, you don't.
I remember liking the first scene. It had a Colt .45, after all. And the dry, understated prose was funny--for a while. Then I wanted to shrug my shoulders and be free of it. MacLean should have tried short stories. He's easier to stomach in small doses.
"Οι καμπάνες του θανάτου", εκδόσεις ΒΙΠΕΡ.Ακριβώς δέκα μήνες πέρασαν από την τελευταία φορά που διάβασα Άλιστερ Μακλίν και η αλήθεια είναι ότι μου έλειψε.
Το βιβλίο που μόλις τελείωσα, στο οποίο βασίζεται και η ταινία When Eight Bells Toll του 1971 με τον Άντονι Χόπκινς, είναι το δέκατο βιβλίο του συγγραφέα που διαβάζω.
Βέβαια, όντας σχετικά άσχετος με πλοία, ναυσιπλοΐα και τα τοιαύτα, κουράστηκα λιγάκι από το πέρα δώθε με τα πλοία και τις (δικαιολογημένες) τεχνικές αναφορές, πάντως σίγουρα όχι σε σημείο να μην απολαύσω την ωραία αυτή περιπέτεια.Σε γενικές γραμμές, το βιβλίο θα αφήσει ικανοποιημένους τους λάτρεις του συγγραφέα (ανάμεσα στους οποίους συγκαταλέγομαι και εγώ), αλλά και αυτούς που θέλουν να διαβάσουν μια αμιγώς βρετανική περιπέτεια από τα παλιά.
There is espionage on the high seas and Philippe Calvert of the British Secret Service investigates. This is an engaging and solid espionage novel. It is a little dated now but still remains an action packed read. I really enjoyed Calvert's sense of humour and there were some very amusing quips. A well presented cast of characters, good dialogue and some wonderful and fast paced action scenes.A rollicking good yarn.
A very good story - I hadn't read it for a while, but well worth reading again. Very enjoyable...
It was ok, not too good but not too bad either
Not my favorite MacLean, but still pretty darn good. He seemed a little long-winded in places here and there, so I had to do some 'scanning past' in this book where I don't usually have to with his other books. Then again, a 'not favorite' MacLean is better than a lot of other books.
I read the book.The Story.Calvert's never liked staring down the barrel end of a Colt .45.
Yet, once again, he’s faced with this gun.Calvert knew he would have to play a dirty game when he planned to board and search, the Nantesville that night.
I was tired of reading a story in which the main character had been nearly killed a half-billion times for no stated reason.
A cold, cynical man, Calvert lives in a dog-eat-dog world where you take out your enemy before he takes you out.Now, I believe in self-defense.
The story is starring a british secret-service agent, Peter Calvert, the main character of the story.
The central character, Peter Calvert has got a great sense of humor.
Peter is in front of the Peacemaker Colt gun, which he would never like to be, as he knows very well how it shatter bones and flesh.
It's a fast reading, full of suspense and thrillers and a great writing too.
There is a lot of secretive messing about the boats done by Peter, but half the times I didn't get the purpose behind that, which got cleared in the later part of the book.
I didn’t realise he was ever leading man material – I’ve only seen him play old or, at best, middle-aged characters.The story begins rather like One Shot by Lee Child, with a detailed description of a gun.
We are nearly at the bottom of a very wordy first page before it’s even mentioned that this particular gun is pointing right at the first person narrator.Talk about burying the lede!This is one of the things that make this book feel its age.
We don’t even find out what the whole point of the book is till about three-quarters of the way through.
In 1963, following the publication of ‘Ice Station Zebra’, MacLean took a three year sabbatical from writing to run a hotel.
When that venture proved less than successful, he resumed his career as one of the world’s top-selling thriller writers.
And while pretty much everything from that earlier period is top-notch, MacLean still produced terrific thrillers well into the 70s.
In short, everything you want from an Alistair MacLean novel and none of his customary weaknesses: no ham-fisted dialogue, no purple prose and no unconvincing romantic subplot.
Well, this definitely throws you straight into the action - so much so that I wondered if it was a sequel, or if my copy was missing a few pages!
The British Secret Service have got involved, trying to find out who is behind it, where the gold is now and what's happened to the crews of the missing ships.There were points that made me smile, especially when dealing with the 'weaker' sex, and this is probably only where the book shows its age a little.
Phillip Calvert is a secret agent investigating piracy and the loss of several million in gold bullion and gems in the North Atlantic.
Facing a dismissal for the untimely death of two of his colleagues on the mission, Calvert has 48 hours to recover the gold before he is taken off the job.
Let's just say this book is a recipe for disaster.The plot construction was clumsy.
For a plot-driven novel, it relies heavily on the main character recounting events and deductions to other characters.
The main character is a nauseating chauvinist, dating the novel.
I first read When Eight Bells Toll in 1971 as a teenage boy around the time the film of the same title was released.
I enjoyed it so much I read it again.
I read the story again.
Although I know the plot backwards now I still enjoy the dialogue, the descriptions, Maclean's easy to read style and Calvert, the hero's sardonic, self deprecating observations.
This book is brought out when I need a quiet, undemanding read.All in all an excellent, fast paced action mystery.Now where did I put my copy?
Time for another reading I think.

A secret service agent, Phillip Calvert, looks into the disappearance of a ship laden with gold bullion around the Western Isles. Is it related to the disappearances of numerous other vessels, some carrying valuable cargoes, some simply working / pleasure vessels? The beginning of the book starts with Calvert deeply involved the plot and it takes a hundred odd pages to understand what is happening. The story proceeds at a cracking pace and it’s an engrossing read.I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys crime / spy thrillers.
I'd never read any MacLean, so when this came my way I thought, 'Why not?' Well, now I know. It's not that MacLean isn't a muscular and propulsive writer. It's that this kind of story seems horribly dated these days--the flawless hero (James Bond stand-in Philip Calvert), the flawed leading lady, the byzantine criminal scheme involving the piracy of gold bullion and other treasures. It might have mad a good film but in print comes across as creaky and ultra-contrived.
An action-adventure spy thriller. This is old-school story telling redolent of the English class system and dour Scottish humour. Took me a while to warm to the tale told from Philip’s point of view. He understates his own abilities and is full of praise for those of the helicopter pilot and the nautical abilities of the Australian sailor.
A ma troisième chute, je cassais ma lampe torche. Après plusieurs dégringolades qui me secouèrent les os et me laissèrent des bleus, ce fut ma boussole de poignet qui se brisa. Bien entendu, le profondimètre que je portais sur le même bracelet resta intact. Et, comme chacun sait, un profondimètre est d'un grand secours pour trouver son chemin la nuit dans les bois, en dehors de tout sentier.
I can't say this is an 'edge-of-the-seat thriller' more a light-hearted jaunt. I admit a few people are murdered, there are a few twists and the pace is relentless. I did enjoy the dark humour from the narrator and main character, Philip Calvert, but I just couldn't take him seriously as a ruthless special agent. I have read a few MacLean books, but this is not one of his best.
Perfect for a "one time read / skim". Some parts were exciting like the way it started and intermediary turn of events, but it surely was stretched and dragged in many places where all I wished for was it to end sooner!Anyways, do give it a spin!Chao!
It's been a long time since I read this, but there was a time I was hooked on Allistair MacLean books. They were decent suspense mysteries and I remember this one stood out as among my favorites. I can't say exactly when I read this so I'm taking a round number guess. It has to be close.
You can't go far wrong with an Alistair MacLean novel. A mens adventure novel, not something that women would like. I have his complete works of Alistair MacLean and I intent to read them all in the fullness of time.
A masterpiece story and excellent narration. Clever use of sarcasm in many of dialogues made the reading even more engrossing. All of the 223 pages are full of action making it a fast paced power pack.
Just finished reading "When Eight Bells Toll" a gripping sea thriller from Alistair Maclean, who is one of my favorite writers. Maclean unleashes the suspense in the end but keeps letting in the secret bit by bit as the story unfolds, the big one coming in the end.
Someone is hijacking ships and no one knows who or why. An under cover aboard one ship is found murdered and part of their handling team meets the same fate. Written in Alistair MacLean usual gripping style.
When Eight Bells Toll by Alistair MacLean (1971)
