https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2954411-living-dead-girl
so - she has all this freedom to leave the house and go to the park to find this new-child for him, but she can't do anything to save herself, which is very frustrating for the reader.The author gets 5 stars for balls - for tackling the subject matter to begin with and for the ending which i'm sure had some people up in startled emotional flight mode.and as a cautionary tale, it should also get 5 stars, although a teen audience is a little old for the caution, and any younger readers would be traumatized beyond therapy.
There are many details worked into the story that have a ring of truth, including the dull repetition of her days watching tv, the anxiety when Ray comes home, the punishments meted out for small infractions, the attempts to keep her small and childlike, Alice's lank appearance and poor circulation from lack of nutrition, etc.
I go into this more in my review of the disappointing and much-lauded Room, but suffice to say that what I hope to gain from reading about such unhappy subjects are some degree of insight (into both the victim's suffering and the perpetrator's motivation) as well as a great deal of empathy.
Well, the book leaves scars I can definitely tell you that much. I didn't know quite what to expect from this book, all I'd heard about it previously was that it's a story about abuse and a very short read (170 pages, large writing in my edition). I'd heard reviewers describe it as 'disturbing', but I didn't dwell on that too much, I assumed that when you've read a couple of Stephen King's books (namely It, Misery, etc.) you'd pretty much got your heard around 'disturbing'.I was wrong. The auth
I didn't know quite what to expect from this book, all I'd heard about it previously was that it's a story about abuse and a very short read (170 pages, large writing in my edition).
And, awful as that is, I couldn't hate her for it.I've read a number of books where the first person narrative is by someone mentally damaged; some work (e.g. The Bell Jar), most do not.
Elizabeth Scott is a genius.
I’ve read some of Elizabeth’s other titles, and I find myself wondering, how can these be written by the same person.
I read this book in one setting.
How can I say that I loved a book about abduction, sexual abuse, and suffering?
I’ve read suggestions that this book shouldn’t be targeted to a teen audience.
Because we don’t need to add to the things that teenagers are desensitized from?
Don’t worry if you ignore the situation it will go away.
Do you ever have one of those moments where you want to let out a good frustrated scream...
“I look wrong. I look dead. I'm not, though. I'm only partway there, a living dead girl. I have been for five years.”  ‘Alice’ is a 15 years old girl who was kidnapped when she was 10 and taken to Shady Pines Apartments. She lives with her captor, Ray, who pretends they are father and daughter. But Ray doesn’t treat ‘Alice’ like a daughter. He abuses her in every way possible, calling her ‘his little girl’, demanding to be a good girl for her daddy. Alice learnt the hard way that she’s alone i
I'm only partway there, a living dead girl.
‘Alice’ is a 15 years old girl who was kidnapped when she was 10 and taken to Shady Pines Apartments.
But Ray doesn’t treat ‘Alice’ like a daughter.
Alice learnt the hard way that she’s alone in all this.
She’s only 15 years old, but at times she felt more mature than that.
She wants to be ‘free’ so badly that she agrees at some point to help Ray to kidnap a little girl.
She wants to survive and she’s ready to do anything to stop her suffering.
and what results.It is chilling to watch her helping to plot the abduction of another girl - even younger this time - she is SO willing to help commit another terrible act just to get her abductor's attention away from her.The end is scary, dramatic, disturbing, triumphant - all rightfully so, and brought a jarring close to the story of "Alice." And yet, I'm happy for her...It's hard to say who I'd recommend this book to, exactly.
However if I were ever to talk to the writer of "Living Dead Girl," I would tell her that if you create a disturbing story like this, if you take your readers on such an emotional roller-coaster, you'd better come up with a better ending than the one we were offered.
The only thing this book will achieve is to scare them out of their sleep due to endless depictions of various assaults which in spite of their vagueness are quite graphic.Overall, "Living Dead Girl" is a memorable albeit painful read.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “I decide everything. Remember that.” God and monster all in one, and mine to worship. First of all . . . .  Well, minus the crying. This was rough, but it takes more than a brutal storyline to get me to squirt some tears (more specifically, my period). Living Dead Girl is about – here I’ll just let the book tell you . . . .  “Once upon a time, I did not live in Shady Pines. Once upon a time, my name was not Alice. Once upon a time, I
When Alice was 10 years old, her class took a field trip to the local aquarium.
Five years since Alice has seen her mother and father.
Five years of living with Ray .
I can only assume the pitch was something of a “think of this like a modernized after school special.” Living Dead Girl is definitely a story each parent will have to decide for themselves if they think their child should read (and I encourage parents to read this first before allowing your kid to check it out).
What's more, I'd say that this is the literary equivalent of torture porn, except worse than anything you'll actually ever see on the big screen; this book has no redeeming social value whatsoever.(Edited a week later to add some thoughts I've better developed since discussing with librarian buddies who both love and hate this book.)I can't deny that this book will appeal to horror-hungry teens, and as a librarian I have to give it credit for that.
For a better, smarter abuse book, try Push.
There is a part of me that regrets ever having picked up this book, and definitely a part of me that (for better or worse) will never forget reading it.
Having said that, this is an important book, one that throws a spotlight on a taboo subject we all wish didn't exist.
I had a friend explain to me why she thought this book is so important, and I had to agree with her: this book doesn't make us an accomplice, but rather a witness -- in the reading we are bearing witness to such awful, indescribable crimes, much as we would when reading a book about the Holocaust.
You bear witness so that you won't ever forget all those nameless, faceless victims.
Living Dead Girl is raw and repulsive, whereas all of Scott's other stories are sunshine and butterflies swirling over romantic heads.When an author begins writing, they usually decide what sort of stories they will write most often, what genre they'd like to be best known for.
Even though she isn't really living, merely existing.The fact is, with the blunt news stories and knowledge that most people have, it doesn't take a very active imagination to guess at some of the sick things that happen in this world.
Reading this book was a terribly shocking experience!
How the author boldly recounts a story of a young girl that is a victim of pedophilia is so vivid and blatant, I was truly horrified.
The story being short and direct, I think has something to do with its main message which is “what happens to little girls who neglect this very important safety rule- never talk to strangers.” One good thing in this story is when Kyla finally finds her voice towards the end of the story enabling her to save a little girl, Lucy from the same ill fate in the hands of Ray. The ending, though abrupt and short gives hope to the readers and to Kyla.
Then he killed Alice's parents, and well before then he killed his own sexually abusive mother.
Alice will help him find his next youthful victim, and she will hold her hands while he breaks her in, she will teach the new girl what Ray likes.
But the numbness begins to wear off, and Jake notices Ray watching her and she weakly asks for help.
Alice is damaged beyond repair, I don't see how she could have recovered and lived a normal life after the 5 years of sexual, physical, and mental abuse she was subjected to.
I read it because it was recommended to me and people I respect believe that it will be a canidate for the awards.
When we give a book an award it is the same as saying this is a great book and I recommend that you read this book.
I can not see recommending this book to any teenager--their parents would have my head if I were to do so.
One of the reviews I read for this book described it as "vivid not graphic." I have to differ with this opinion.
I found the book to be too graphic.
Terrifying. The ending wasn't what I'd hoped for, but not because it was bad. Because it was real.
WHY??My face reading this...I actually enjoyed the writing and I wasn't bored or anything, I kind of want to finish it but I feel too much like a sicko- not a judgment of people who have read it at all.
I just feel like a voyeur and in this context I have NO DESIRE to read it.I have kids and maybe this is why....I am used to warnings and usually this makes me want to read it more.But for the first time ever I have been pushed out of comfort zone.....fucking thrown out of it in fact.
The story follows Alice, a teenage girl who was abducted at the age of ten.
She now lives with a pedophile, and this story is the journey of her escape.
'Living Dead Girl' explores the true nature of abduction and the helplessness and desperation of the protagonist.
Alice kept dropping bombs; her past, her experiences with Ray and her true feelings.
It was not overdone, like some novels, neither was too much information given at once.The characters were so complex, especially Ray. You could see the vulnerability whenever Ray said anything about his mother.
Alice was pretty complex too.
I liked how she watched television to escape.
(view spoiler)[ The end was pretty amazing and tragic.
This was an okay book, just not really my cup of tea though.
It is the story of Alice, who was abducted as a 10-year-old by Ray, who has sexually and emotionally abused her for five years.
Alice has long wanted to die, but death eludes her time and again though she wishes for it often.
Ray now wants a new little girl to join them, so Alice is allowed to head to a park and start scouting for what she can only hope will be her replacement.This is a book that makes you want to scream.
Scott's writing can be poetic at times, underlining the brutality and desperation of the book.
This is truly a horrific book; one that I want to forget, but probably never will.The writing is superb, but the content is beyond my cognitive comprehension…truly disturbing, haunting and poignant that propelled me to a level of angst I wasn't prepared to experience.
I'll never forget the address 623 Daisy Lane… This is the first time I am giving 5 stars to a book I can say I truly hated, but it does deserve the rating...
THIS BOOK WAS SO CREEPY AND MESSED UP BUT I LOVED IT.
Heart-breaking! Review to follow.
Living Dead Girl is one of the most disturbing books I've ever read.
It's memorable in its scariness and in its realness.
The protagonist has been the victim of sexual abuse by a much older man for years.
Her only hope is to draw another girl into her fate and await her own murder.
The author draws you in with an interesting writing style and suspenseful tone, keeping you hooked to the end.
Her usage of a dry narrative style with less punctuation really added emotion here.
Definitely recommended for fans of both suspense and real-issue contemporaries, because this is somehow both.
I had to update this review after reading comments by other people about the book.
I hated, hated, hated the ending of this book.
I haven't been this pissed off at a book in a long time.
No. I liked it up until the end, and it does provoke interesting discussions, so I'm not going to tell anyone NOT to read it.SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERT SPOILER ALERTSome people think the protagonist is alive at the end, others (like me) think that she dies.
Basically, it's like the book is saying, "If you've been kidnapped and abused for five years, then you're better off dead."What?
“no one would listen. I could have screamed a million times in a million voices and no one would have ever heard me. I did,every time I left the apartment, with every step I took out in the world. All those cries, and no one ever heard them” Alice..
We almost always know what kind of books we had in hand.
Star-ratings.This book,however,transcends lines.
The characters so real you won't be surprised if they grabbed you by the hand and pull you into the pages.
If we are only to consider Elizabeth Scotts immense talent this book would easily get a 5star rating.On the other hand,there's the fact that this must be one of the most disturbing book ever written.
It's like that with this book,you know that feeling of being fascinated with a video of a carcrash.
Thank God the book is only a few pages.
A difficult book for a mother of three little girls to read.
Frightening.
Devastating.
Heartbreaking.
I hate this book because it made me feel so much, too much.
Reduced me to genuine sobs, as if I was mourning the passing of a loved one.
This story will haunt me forever.
I am able appreciate Living Dead Girl for these reasons.Regardless of the content, the subject matter, Living Dead Girl is well-crafted.
Every word has a purpose, every sentence deliberate.
I don't know how Elizabeth Scott managed to do that.
Clearly Scott knows what she's doing.
Ray decides Alice is no longer young enough and sets her a task to abduct a new girl and everything spirals from there.“Three life lessons:1.No one will see you.2.No one will say anything.3.No one will save you.”You will feel so many emotions reading this book.
Or, on a more confronting sense of strength she’ll wish for death and want Ray to kill her, but then she’ll give up on that too.“I am the living dead girl because I am too weak to die.”It seems wrong to talk about this book in a technical sense, but despite the lack of plot the chapters are all really short and so fast paced that it’s impossible not to read this book in one sitting.
LIVING DEAD GIRL is amazing, heartbreaking, and beautiful. I was terrified and intrigued. I had to carve a dark place in my heart to store this book, and I will be haunted for weeks.
That was so horrifying and heartbreaking !!!And it's so sad that these things do happen in real life and some of those criminals getaway with it T^T
