https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1120879.The_Collected_Poems
I love Sara Teasdale's poetry in small doses.
If you read too much of it at once, though, it gets to be decidedly too much on the same theme.This is the poem that introduced me to her work.
I knew it by heart from that very first reading, and secretly (or not secretly, now), rather feel this way myself, sometimes.

Alone I am alone, in spite of love, In spite of all I take and give— In spite of all your tenderness, Sometimes I am not glad to live. I am alone, as though I stood On the highest peak of the tired gray world, About me only swirling snow, Above me, endless space unfurled; With earth hidden and heaven hidden, And only my own spirit's pride To keep me from the peace of those Who are not lonely, having died. ...........Beautiful


There Will Come Soft RainsThere will come soft rains and the smell of the ground,And swallows circling with their shimmering sound;And frogs in the pools singing at night,And wild plum trees in tremulous white;Robins will wear their feathery fire,Whistling their whims on a low fence-wire;And not one will know of the war, not oneWill care at last when it is done.Not one would mind, neither bird nor tree,If mankind perished utterly;And Spring herself, when she woke at dawnWould scarcely know that we were gone.
In her short life of only thirty-eight years she published several books of poetry.
In 1918 she was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for her book of Love Songs.
This poem was used by Ray Bradbury as the title of one of his short stories that are included his book, The Martian Chronicles.
My aunt gave me this book when I was a teenager. Every poem i wrote for years after that sounded like Sara Teasdale. She perfect for romantic teenage girls.
I found this author accidentially. I did a search on "Female Poets" and I just randomly picked the letter "T" and went down the list. I found her book and opened it. I fell in love instantly. I went to a local used bookstore called "Rust Belt Books" and asked if they had this book, they did not. Within a couple of days someone had brought in a copy. It was ment to be! I continue to reread the poems. Favorite section is "Flame and Shadows".
I stumbled upon Sara Teasdale's poetry around 7th grade when I was in my own poetic phase. Her work really moved me, as in adolescence we try to find such things, and inspired me more to continue writing. While I've abandoned by aspiring writer status, I still find her poetry to be simple and beautiful. Teasdale committed suicide, so many of her poems are about her struggle with life and death and the numerous moments in life that both excited and depressed her.
These poems are the soundtrack of my life. I have loved them since I first received this book as a gift at 15. Teasdale's poetry is the kind to read aloud. You will find pieces of your own life and heartbreak in them.
This has become one of my favorite volumes of poetry.
I was given an incredible gift by a friend of a 1946 print of this book. It is timeless.
I can't remember first reading Teasdale. I doubt I'll ever stop.
My most favorite poet ever. This book is a treasure! Favorite poem: I am not yours.
If you can’t get enough of the dawn, and the starry sky, love ( winning it and losing it), flowers, and Mother Nature, you’ll keep picking up this book, time after time.I had to drawn the line, on page 74, when I got to “Leaves.” I was bone dry by the time I got to:“One by one, like leaves from a tree,All my faiths have forsaken me…”Sara Teasdale (1884-1933) was a lyric poet whose poetry collections were bestsellers during her lifetime.
Be that as it may…Read more of my book reviews and poems here:www.richardsubber.com
Teasdale was a lyric poet who's tragic suicide cut short a career of beautiful and witty work.
One poem I found interesting was "To A Loose [promiscuous] Woman""My dear, your face is lovely And you have lovely eyesI do not cavil at your life But only at your lies--You are not brave, you are not wild You merely ride the crest of fashion;Ambition is your special ware And you have dared to call it passion."Something that while written 80 years ago, still rings true today.
It's fashionable--dare to deny it!
to have multiple sexual partners, and it's not brave or wild to do it.
(…) Love, come forth,Come forth before the autumn goes,And let us seek thro’ ruined pathsThe garden’s last red rose.I just recently discovered Sara Teasdale's poetry, but I'm already so in love with it!
I began to really enjoy her work when I broke this mental patterning, and now I wish I’d held on to the book longer to reread the last two sections.Notes to Self:First Poet to with The Pulitzer (but right before they changed the name to Pulitzer, so often overlooked)For future reference:“The spring herself, when she woke at dawn,Would scarcely know that we were gone.”Note: tie in to Ray Bradburry Short Story about the electronic house and the Shadows on the WallAlso see “The Voice” - is this in public domain?
Certain lines in this poem tremendously future forward, others don’t translate to modern thought.
Familiar only with her short lyrics, I did not know that Sara Teasdale attempted dramatic monologues in her early book Helen of Troy and Other Poems (1911).
So in the poem "Jewels" she compares turning her eyes from her lover to women putting away "The jewels they have worn at night/ And cannot wear in sober day." Another lyric "Thoughts" becomes the life lived in dressing rooms and nurseries.When I can make my thoughts come forth To walk like ladies up and down,Each one puts on before the glass Her most becoming hat and gown.But oh, the shy and eager thoughts That hide and will not get them dressed,Why is it that they always seem So much more lovely than the rest?
Collection of Sara Teasdale's poetry from 1907 to 1933, including poems on war, childhood, nature, and love.
Especially love.
And New York plays a leading role in so many of Teasdale's poems, the skyline being compared to the waves of the ocean, the landmarks of the city described in a way that you can still feel, smell, and hear today.
And there are other love poems here that are genuinely funny, as in the poem Wild Asters, where the daisies of spring know a lover is true, but Bitter autumn blowsAnd all of the stupid astersNot one knows.There are of course poems, love and otherwise, that miss the mark, and feel tedious to a modern ear.
I fell in love with Teasdale's poetry as a teenager and wrote my bachelor's thesis on her.
Some of these poems I know by heart; I've read them over and over again.
She uses images, mostly of things in nature, to express emotions, and hers are either very happy or deep down in the dumps.
My theory is that she may have been bipolar.
The meaning of her poetry hits you as soon as you read it.
I wish she'd lived longer and written more!
Anyone who likes Teasdale may also enjoy the poetry of Christina Rossetti or Lizette Woodworth Reese.
I was glad to have found the smaller bound volumes of Teasdale's poems, because several were excluded from this collection, and one was one of my favorites ("Spring" from Rivers to the Sea). There aren't any explanations for the exclusions other than that they were based on conversations she had with friends.I tend to like her shorter, rhyming, sentimental poems than her longer, affected sonnets and tributes to mythological figures.
After hearing the poem; " There will come soft rains" ,There will come soft rains and the smell of the ground And swallows circling with their shimmering sound: And frogs in the pools singing at night,And wild plum-trees in tremulous white, This is just part of the poem, but it is beautiful. so I bought the her poetry book, and they are all beautiful, well worth buying and reading,,
I first came across Sara Teasdale in an anthology of poetry by women. I fell in love with her work immediately. The edition of her Collected Poems that I own has a lovely introduction/biographical sketch of her that really helped me put her poetry in the context of her life, making it all the more rich and meaningful. On the surface, her poems don't seem like much, but looking beyond that first impression one finds that her poems are as complex and unique as the poet herself.
I go back and forth reading this book. I have a limited edition, maroon hardbound copy of this collection and I treasure it - although I have not read all of the collection to its entirety. I've been a Sara Teasdale fan ever since I read her poem, "Barter". For an amazingly powerful poet, I'm surprised she is not more well known.
I discovered and fell in love with Sara Teasdale's poetry when I was in college. She had a true gift. She was very unhappy during her short life, and that very unhappiness imbued her poetry with a depth and pathos that has always reached out to me. I especially love the poetry she wrote about the ocean.
There is no magic any more,We meet as other people do,You work no miracle for meNor I for you.You were the wind and I the sea -There is no splendor any more,I have grown listless as the poolBeside the shore.But though the pool is safe from stormAnd from the tide has found surcease,It grows more bitter than the sea,For all its peace.
I’m working on the Collected Poems these days. I became a fan of Teasdale's many years ago after reading “The Look” in high school, and I’ve been rather enamored ever since. This collection is a little rough in spots–sometimes she can be a little on the trite, melodramatic side–but sometimes she’s perfectly brilliant. Careful, though: her poetry will make you want to fall in love.
I'm not close to half the book and yet I know it's a five star book and the best I read this year...and a dear company for years to come.Done and it's not a book you wanna be done withmost of the poems are personal and evolve around one theme yet they're worth endless readings and many readers can find themselves in them
Something about Teasdale's poetry really speaks to my heart. I've read the collected works all at least once, and have gone back to many of the poems repeatedly. Many of her poems are quite lyrical, and I've even set some of them to music. (I don't do much of that.)
