https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13833.Emperor_Mage
The nice thing about it was that it was like reading this book for the very first time - I remembered absolutely nothing about the plot!So here it is: Fifteen year old animal mage Daine and her mentor, now 29 year old Numair, travel with a delegation from Tortall to Carthak, to try to negotiate a peace treaty with the Emperor Mage, Orzorne (who's come a long way from the teenager he was in Tempests and Slaughter).
As a veteran of the Lioness Quartet, I know that in Tortall the question is not whether or not the gods are real but how long it will take one of them to show up, and this is the book in which at least one of them becomes a driving force.
So I'm going to waste a little more of your time analyzing one scene, one of my favorites in the book: when Daine and Prince Kaddar go to the archery yard and Daine beats all the Carthaki nobles in archery.First of all, we get this:"Women aren't up to the discipline of military life.""You must tell Lady Alanna that sometime.
But it's more successful when done with plant magic: there's something much more obviously tame about plants, as opposed to animals, and plants are also much more prevalent: the idea of literally using someone's garden to bring down their home is much more chilling than using a god-granted power to wake up dinosaur fossils and destroy a palace.
That could've been done by anyone, not just a Wild mage, and so this feels less like Daine's victory than the Graveyard Hag's.
One thing I like about the Daine-being-kidnapped plot is that it demonstrates the emperor's absolute power.
In Emperor Mage, Daine gets to pretend she's actually a girl sent from a royal envoy as diplomats into a foreign land instead of a girl who wants to be an animal and surrounded by animals all the time.
Daine also gets conflicting messages from the Emperor Mage, Orzarne.
The jury is out on him for much of the book, so I wasn't sure of where he stood on the side of good or evil, and I liked that characterization of him.Daine...wow, she really saves the day in this one.
Wasn't Pierce meant to write that book about Numair's younger years at the university studying under Lindhall Reed and having weird conflicted relationships with Varice and Ozorne?
Even if the criticism is justified within the logic of the text (slavery is bad - obvs - and I kind of like that a YA fantasy novel addresses it since a lot of fantasy worlds are predicated on just accepting rigid pre-modern social hierarchies), and while we do get at least one sympathetic Cathakian in the form of Kaddar, it still kind of bugs that Pierce decides to set up this framework with this book and this culture.
It opens with Daine, Numair, Alanna, and other nobles arriving in Carthak in their ship, where the older group, including Numair who has been given a pardon by his sworn enemy, Emperor Orzone of Carthak, and the titular Emperor Mage, for peace talks while Daine has been sent to cure Orzone’s birds (he is a bird lover) who are suffering a mysterious illness.
This book also, in addition to animals, has dinosaur fossils, with whom Daine ends up having some interesting adventures, but of course, it was Daine’s connection with animals (live ones) which remained my favourite element of the story.
The adventure elements of the story were also fun, with Daine as always having to enlist the help of her friends to defeat the enemy.
Along the way, we get to learn more about Numair’s past and meet a few of his old “friends.”If there’s one thing I’m sure about after reading this book, it’s this: Tamora Pierce has spent a significant amount of time in the Smithsonian Museum of Natural History.
Daine actually has a bit of a “rival” in this book, when Numair runs into an old flame who’s obviously still interested.
I’m pretty sure that I was about one hundred times more peeved about the whole thing than Daine was.
I still absolutely adore this book. Wild Magic is dear to me because it was my first book by Pierce, but Emperor Mage makes my heart soar every time. Zek, Kitten, Bonedancer, the hyenas, the Graveyard Hag, the reanimated dinosaur bones!, and hints of Numair's back story... the sumptuous surroundings and rot underneath... and finally some answers about Daine's father!
In fact, even with all her Mary Sue qualities, Daine makes me wish fervently for the days when this character was the norm, instead of the whiny emosparklyteenaged brats we get now.Numair and Alanna are back and are great.
I also liked how we FINALLY got some closure about Daine's father.What REALLY improved my opinion of this book were two things: the climax and the religion/pantheon of gods/goddesses.
I'm sure this has been done elsewhere, but this is the first time I remember seeing this, and I thought it was clever."Emperor Mage" is an improvement over "Wolf Speaker".
IT WAS A YA FANTASY BUT WRITTEN LIKE A FABLE FOR CHILDREN,in a good way. THE ACTIONS WERE STUNNING!
I'm pretty sure at this point everyone has read this book, and if you haven't - you really should.Daine is off to Cathark, along with a delegation from Tortall.
Daine is to heal the emperor's birds while the delegation attempts to forge a peace treaty.
As the talks press on, Daine discovers that there are plenty of things happening in Cathark that she doesn't agree with.
In this book we also finally get some more development of the relationship between Daine and Numair.
This is probably my favourite quartet, and I am now off to read the fourth book.
I can just about taste the fascinating, intricate, complex story of a girl who is unwittingly growing into a conduit between the Divine Realm and the mortal realm, one who has powers that continue to grow, isolating her from those around her (except her not-that-much-older mage mentor) as she struggles to build a place for herself in the world.
I liked the glimmers of respect he showed for Daine at the end, but even that was too simple a response as she'd just brought down the palace, oversaw the destruction of the former emperor, and raised the extinct from the dead.
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/Daine, Numair and Alanna journey to Carthak, in the hope that if Daine can heal the Emperor Ozorne prized birds, it will help the peace process between Carthak and Tortall.
However, Daine get mixed up in both political and religious situations as the Goddess, the Graveyard Hag, gives her a power which could ruin everything.
This series has everything it has magic, action, romance and a story which draws you in and you end up reading, not knowing where the hours have gone.
I would recommend this to anyone who likes Sabriel or Eragon.
Loved this one! Review to follow!
No. So why is there a good Tortall and bad Carthak vibe going on?2) There is this one sentence that seemed really strange to me and I'm wondering if it is just a typo or if it hints at something related to the author.
First of all, I think brown might've worked just as well but even if not, shouldn't it be something like, "he was a black man," or, "he was dark-skinned." Am I being too PC?
It irked me how it appeared as the entire country of Carthak was apologizing to Diane for the actions of one crazed, power hungry man.
The Emperor Mage is the third book in Tamora Pierce's The Immortals Quartet, and by this stage if you haven't read the previous installments (Wild Magic and Wolf Speaker) I heartily recommend that you don't start here — you'll be completely baffled.
A peace delegation including Alanna the Lioness, the Gareths and other nobles from Tortall have been sent to the hot, swampy Charthak Empire in order to negotiate peace with the war-mongering Emperor Ozorne.
Read More: http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
I LOVED THIS.
I flew through it while the 2nd book took me some time.
I was immediately into the story; I liked the change in setting and meeting all the new characters and creatures.
Zek!!
And Kaddar was so interesting, his relationship with Daine was great.
This book was so exciting and awesome, I think I'll start the next one right now.
I really love Daine's powers and watching her learn more and more about her wild magic.
Also, every time Numair calls Daine "magelet" I die a little inside <3
Here she is brought on a diplomatic mission to a kingdom south of Tortall (which is strangely like Egypt.
A war with Tortall.In order to stave off the potentially devastating consequences of war on their small kingdom, a mission of all the knights you remember from previous books in order to wage peace, as well as heal the Emperor's birds, whom he cares about more than life itself.
Fun, fast, and while it isn't as good as some of the other Pierce series, it definitely left me ready to read the last book in the series.
Reread this during a sick day. Ohhh boy it reads different as a 30-something than it did as a preteen. Pierce almost always handles her non-European counterpart cultures awkwardly, and it's no different here. I do wish other books in the series were more like this one other aspects, though. This book has pretty much the best pacing of any book in the Tortall series, and has a perfect blend of mystery, court intrigue, comedy, adventure, etc.
There's nothing I can say that will adequately express how I feel about these books and I'm not even going to try. Besides, the fact that I read them all repeatedly (I quit counting after the 10th time) is the highest form of praise I can give anyway. Daine, Numair, and the others are friends as dear to me as any in this world.
[Happy sigh] If nothing else a classic for the chapter title Daine Loses Her Temper.
There are more new ideas in Emperor Mage, and there's also a more complicated political plot, as well as a fairly detailed relationship (non-romantic) built between Daine and a prince of another country, so this book is a step forward in terms of maturity and breadth; but it's just not as emotionally satisfying as either of its predecessors, either in terms of the main interpersonal relationships, or the main inter-species bonds.[spoily bit.
necessary to explain the above sentiment.] Daine's new ability in this book is one that is borrowed for the duration of this story arc -- already a bit of an odd choice for a series which otherwise does a great job of gradual and sustained growth for the main character.
I swear Daine picks up a new animal side kick in every book and I love it!! This was definitely my favorite book in the series so far, which is weird because Daine is mostly with animals or other Carthakians, instead of Numaire. I just love this series so much but my brain is tired and I'm sick so that's all I got lol.
There really needed to be a book that was Daine in Tortall.
(view spoiler)[And I think will contribute to Daine/Numair not working for me this time around.
The age difference and the teacher/student are problematic enough, but I think I could have gotten around the in this instance, for reasons I will discuss probably after book 4, after I am reminded of how it goes down exactly (I have surprisingly little memory of book 4).
1. Daine and Numair actually spend very little time together in books 2 and 3.
Daine never spends any time with anyone else her own age.
Despite the sometimes unbelievable reactions characters have in the book (nobody likes to be beaten at anything least of all a young man (note the ego) by a little girl), for the most part the book holds you in Pierce's realm and enchants you to keep flipping those pages.One thing though that I felt a bit let down about in the book was Diane's main reason for being along on the "Peace Negotiation Mission." Her purpose was to further the talks by taking care of the emperors precious birds.
Carthaki ships have been attacking the coast of Daine's country of Tortall for the last year, resulting in increasingly violent skirmishes, and the intention of this delegation is to negotiate for peace between the nations.Accompanying Daine on this trip are the famous lady knight Alanna, star of Pierce's LIONESS QUARTET, Tortall's most powerful mage and Daine's teacher, Numair, and the young dragon, Kitten.Daine finds Carthak to be an alternately strange and disturbing place; she's not comfortable with the practice of slavery, which is legal there, or with Emperor Orzone, a powerful mage in his own right.
I loved Tamora Pierce's description of the different types of dinosaurs.
And they actually played a pertinent part in the storyline!(view spoiler)[I am kind of glad though that Daine's power to animate skeletons was only temporarily given to her by the Graveyard Hag - it would be a little too much to be a permanent power.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite quote: "Someday I must read this scholar Everyone, she thought as she bit her tongue to keep from giving a rude answer.
(view spoiler)[It would be a little creepy to eat something you had shapeshifted into and almost been killed as.
Graded By: StephanieCover Story: Let’s Play Dress UpBFF Charm: PlatinumSwoonworthy Scale: 6Talky Talk: SmorgasbordBonus Factors: Dinosaurs, Animal Friends, Ozorne’s Outfits, Daine Loses Her TemperRelationship Status: BFFsRead the full book report here.
Daine comes along to take a look at the Emperor's ailing birds.
Meanwhile the Emperor has no plans for peace, and plans to use Daine to ruin the peace talks.Another great story.
I think one thing I really love about these book is that there isn't really romance.
Don't get me wrong I love romance, but hate when it's all the story is really about.
I like how its more about Daine's powers, animals, stopping a war ect.
I know the romance is coming in the last book ;)
Yes! This is the type of storytelling I know and love. Not all of that hiding in the woods, animal friends, protect the environment crap. I was so happy this one was better and advanced Daine's powers while still advancing the story. I cannot wait for the impending war that is going to happen in book 4.Conclusion: To Buy
