https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80156.Film_Form
3.5
I may have approached reading Film Form from the wrong angle.
Part of the problem is that Eisenstein tries to take a scientific approach to something that cannot be systematized - the means by which an image produces an emotional response.
He is constantly invoking music as a comparison - but unfortunately, the systems by which aural and visual information are processed in our brains are entirely different.
Certain intervals in music are hard-wired to activate various emotional responses.
Our responses to visual imagery, however, is much more top-down, and as a result much more chaotic.
Seminal. Period. It's all about montage, sure, but people don't recognize the linear editing as much as they should. Read his theory - it's about cell-to-cell, not necessarily sequence-to-equence. Just ask Brian DePalma. He's been cribbing on this shit for decades.
brilliant film theory; holds that film is always about revolution, and any film should incite one in the viewer. replace the catharsis from the aristotelian model of drama with incitement/invitation to revolution, and you've essentially got it.
brief essay forthcoming - eisenstiens critique of griffith pinpoints the dickensonian moralistic roots in all cinema, beginning with the dynamics of the "chase scene"...and thats just for starters. just you wait until you bite into the juicy essay on joyce, damn it! Eistenstien is a gifted writer and his hodge-podge use of references strikes at you furiously. Supply your reader with bullets, Sergei.
Eisenstein var ljósárum á undan samtíma sínum.
3 3/4 stars
Grammatically speaking, one written element in the structure of their language, which could be read as "dog + mouth = bark," set the stage, as it were - because in Kabuki he mentions his appreciation in their way of working transitions with a set design that moves behind the actor as he advances in a forward motion upstage - this combination begins to inform his approach to using the montage to say what words and subtitles could not in silent film.
One course was even titled "writing about film" - I don't know how you could not include his work given he approaches film like a language.
Eisenstein's theories of montage are applicable to other media, particularly literature, which, as he repeatedly points out, is closest to the way that he thinks about film.
As such, Eisenstein's idea that the montage is given meaning through a single image that "directs" the viewer how to interpret the sequence of images, no matter where in that sequence of images this image occurs (even at or near the end) seems remarkably similar to cognitive processes.
Eisenstein rejects the "blending" approach to montage of his teacher, Kuleshov, that would be "top-down" (sequence worked out before individual images), in favor of a dialectical approach, or a conflict-based system.

For example, Eisenstien notes that movie editing is similiar to Japanese ideograms, i.
e. "a dog + a mouth = 'to bark.'" Film montage editing follows a similiar form, whereupon one image is placed next to another to relay a concept.
One example I can think of is the famous "Godfather II" ending.
At the end of the movie we see a sepia shot of a stoic Michael as Godfather staring out his mansion window (at this point he's killed all of his enemies and his brother).
The two shots together portray intellectual concepts such as lonliness, bleakness, etc.
So I know Eisenstein is a vital component of film theory, but man, he is a little hard to read. You really only need one parenthetical phrase per sentence, if that. I don't know how much of it is his writing and how much of it is the translation, but it's a bit of a slog. Topics covered include film as a language, the role of film to tell stories, and the ever important component of montage in film and in all the arts.
I have almost read all of what there is on and from Eisenstein, and come to the conclusion that, how pioneering and amazing his films may be, as a writer on film theory he is overrated. It's a shame that as a film student you think you have to read everything on him and find so little. Read Pudovkin instead and you will find everything you are looking for.
I'm not sure whether it is the translation or the depth with which Eisenstein analyses his topic but I found it very hard to read. The lessons there are interesting and applicable to my film making but I found it hard to digest. Perhaps a better translation or analysis by a third party would have been a lot more accessible.
Complex
Eisenstein, you think goodly, but why your English translator only translate into English words and not also English sentences?
I can understand why this book is important in the realm of film studies, but its density has instigated many a nap. Montage, montage, montage.
Read at UCLA
Film genius at large! What a magnificent contribution to cinema. Learn from the master.
Fascinating, but not convincing, and often infuriatingly abstract in its concepts and language.
I like the Russian approach. It is very simple, functional, yet emotional.
If you're interested in film studies
Pioneer Eisenstein wrote one of the seminal works in cinema theory.
If you're a movie buff, you'd appreciate this book. Sergei Eisenstein pioneered "Intellectual Montage"...Which modern film makers have adapted and use on a regular basis
