https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/275654.Death_Dealer
People who, according to Rudolph Höss, were to blame for the horrors at Auschwitz: 1.
The prisoners themselves People who, according to Rudolph Höss, were NOT to blame for the horrors at Auschwitz: 1.
He was not to blame for anything that went on at Auschwitz because the orders he gave were only those given to him by Himmler.
He uses an entire book to make himself a less guilty party in the murder of around 1.1 million people, who never left Auschwitz.
The book deserves five stars because it gets you into the mind of a cruel man who can carry out cruel actions and still be able to play the martyr.
In this book, you will heard countless times how it wasn't Hoess's fault.
He even goes as far as to suggest that the work his prisoners had to do day in and day out was good for them; it kept them psychologically sane.
At times it even felt like he was trying to vilify the prisoners in the sonderkommando!This book was truly horrific in content and at times I simply couldn't believe what I was reading.
Rudolf Höss was a linchpin in the machinery that drove the gears of the Holocaust. As such his perspective (although biased) needs to be examined - to prevent such perspectives in the future.
The SS guards he was assigned, the poor medical care, lack of supplies and indifferent higher officers all caused the brutal and deadly conditions at Auschwitz.
There was nothing he could do to stop the sadistic guards from encouraging the mistreatment of prisoners or killing them.But then he admits the Kommandant who followed him fixed the problem of prisoner beatings in no time.The worst is his reaction to his role in killing perhaps three million or more people.

(Because you can’t give a Nazi 5 stars)“Rudolph Hoss’s memoirs are perhaps the most important document attesting to the Holocaust, because they are the only candid, detailed, and essentially honest description of the plan of mass annihilation from a high-ranking SS officer intimately involved in the carrying out of Hitler’s and Himmler’s plan.” (from the book’s preface).
Hoss was forthright in conveying his own personal history, his role in the Nazi machine, and his position as Kommandant of Auschwitz.
They eventually evolved to become death factories, as Hoss reflected, “…who could imagine the horrible tasks that would be assigned to the concentration camps during the war.” When he was finally given the assignment to establish and build Auschwitz, he adamantly vented his frustration toward his subordinates.
And most disturbing of all, to me, is the fact that even today, seventy five years later, one only has to turn on the nightly news to see all the 'little men and women with their little hatreds' still on full display, every single day, in every corner of the world.
It is ordinary men and women who are ordered to carry out these horrors.
By examining these little men and women and their little hatreds, we can learn from this history.
This Italian edition (for one in English see Death Dealer: The Memoirs Of The Ss Kommandant At Auschwitz) comes with a lucid preface by Primo Levi (himlsef an Auschwitz survivor) - Hoss sees himself simply as somebody who wants to do his job properly, or at least this is the justification he is putting out to the world.
In his allucinated perspective, perfecting ways to "process" large numbers of inmates becomes almost an act of kindness to his prisoners: "Death would overcome [them] in the crowded cells just after the gas had been pumped int.
He is simply a guy doing his job, and he cares about doing it properly.
This is just one example of many, where in an almost defensive tone Hoess seems to attempt to reiterate his humanity, and even his own victimhood, to fascinating effect.
This anecdote really stayed with me because, above every other value in the human heart, Hoess held aloft the concept of Order .
For this reason he could hate all priests and lose his faith forever due to a childhood resentment, yet was able to serve in many top NS positions where he diligently managed the systematic liquidation of millions, so long as the principles of order, rules, and duty were respected.
I’m not sure if the British captors of Rudolf Hoess were aware of the socratic technique when they forced him to write his autobiography but, in getting Hoess to write this horrible, self-aggrandising book, similar results are achieved.Predictably, ‘Commandant of Auschwitz’ is dripping with denial.
Hoess even has the audacity to claim that all he ever wanted to do was to live the life of a farmer with his wife and children (the romantic Nazi ideal), but that the lure of being a soldier again after the first world war was too much.
Hoess attempts to manipulate the reader through describing the most excruciating banalities about the difficulties of running a concentration camp.
This was a very disturbing and eye-opening account of the operations of Auschwitz-Birkenau from 3 select SS-Men. I bought it at the bookstore in Auschwitz and the vivid descriptions from the authors were made very real to me since I spent a whole day at both camps.
It was different from accounts by Holocaust prisoners or survivors (ex.
Rudolph Hoss wrote his autobiography in prison with the intentions of making himself look good to the world (or as good as one can in his situation) but his words still lack humanity.
You might have to take breaks from this book, as it is very haunting and disturbing, but it is a very important read.
It feels weird giving this book five stars, but it was such a fascinating and detailed look into Höss’s mind, I have to rate it as such. I read this book slowly, as it was a heavy, difficult read, but I learned so much and recommend it to anyone interested in this subject matter.
A horrifying read that awakens our oftentimes apathetic hearts. Full review is on my blog.
What follows is the strange mixture of detailed descriptions of the Nazi extermination machine, complete with extremely valuable and chilling step-by-step rundowns of how the prisoners were processed, selected, gassed, worked to death, cremated (complete with an appendix exclusively about the killing process), interspaced with a humdrum refrain of complaints (about the clunky red tape that hemmed him at every turn, about ignorant superiors and incompetent subalterns) along with Höss's reflections on human nature that gain expression in his obsession for cataloguing virtually everyone, be it prisoners or SS men.
Commandant of Auschwitz is a true account from the Auschwitz Commandant's perception of all the events taking place in Auschwitz and other concentration camps.I've had this book, which consists of only 235 pages, on my bookshelf for a while now.
Not one group in the camp goes unexamined by Hoess, including Jehovah's Witnesses, Jews, women, and homosexuals.A particularly disturbing excerpt from the book reads:" By will of the Reichsfuhrer SS, Auschwitz became the greatest human extermination center of all time.
Those within the states who are carrying out Union stripping bills may want to read this book, or maybe they have, since the last huge Union stripping measures occured in Germany between WWI & WWII with all of the 'free-thinking' people who lead the Unions and/or refused to give up their Union ideals having been sent to concentration camps.
After reading this book, I suggest that every person who is poor, blue collar or disabled make a mass exodus of the U.S.; after all tea party candidate have already suggested concentration camps (see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RvlKMg...) People are evil, with some of the worse offenders against humanity being those who cause their authrocities in the name of their religion!
I read this book quickly...I wanted to read it but not to linger on it any more than necessary because I felt such disgust and dirtiness just touching the pages.
Or is he diabolical, evil, clever and trying to write a persuasive account so that his life or at least his reputation be saved?I have to say its the latter.
If only because we cannot be educated enough on the potential horror and evil that can burst forth in our world and come out of seemingly normal people.Depressing and terrible, yes.
Rudolph Hoess, who oversaw the Auschwitz camps during the time that the crematoriums were built, during the time when millions of Jews and other human beings were exterminated there, finds it within himself to spend an entire book explaining why he's at no fault at all, and shows no regret whatsoever.
The blame seems to lay all around him (he blames his superiors as well as his subordinates) but somehow manages to escape him.What's even more disturbing is how he fills entire pages questioning the moral standards of the prisoners who were part of the "special detachment" (sonderkommando), or the kapos.
Because unfortunately, Rudolph Hoess does not come across as an evil man, which makes it all so incomprehensible.
It's been almost 10 years since I read this book, but it was eye opening.
It was factual and so interesting on a moral level.
I still felt as if he was a despicable man, but it was interesting to read about the camps from a different perspective.
It was obvious he did not feel remorse for what he did and continued to claim that he was doing the right thing.
But this isn't a repentant man admitting he was fooled into doing horrible things.
He still believes what he did was right.
If you had any doubts about the Holocaust this book will change your mind. Reading this book is very scary and upsetting. He treats the Jews and others as vermin to be killed. If you belive Hilter did not know what was going on this book will end that notion.
Rudolf Hoess was history's greatest mass murderer, the architect and SS Commandant of the largest killing center ever created, the death camp of "Auschwitz" (located in Poland), whose name has come to symbolize humanity's ultimate, abject descent into evil.
Hoess details in his book how he converted Auschwitz into an extermination camp and installed gas chambers and crematoriums.
I feel that we carried out the orders in a moral fashion, and the orders of destroying the village, of killing the people in the village, and I feel we did not violate any moral standards." Was Calley a sociopath like Hoess?
Rudolf Hoess was history's greatest mass murderer, the architect and SS Commandant of the largest killing center ever created, the death camp of "Auschwitz" (located in Poland), whose name has come to symbolize humanity's ultimate, abject descent into evil.
Detailed in this story, Hoess explains how after an experimental gassing there in September 1941 of 850 malnourished and ill prisoners, mass murder became a daily routine.By mid 1942, mass gassing of primarily Jews utilizing "Zyklon-B" gas commenced at Auschwitz, whereupon extermination was conducted on an industrial scale with 2.5 million innocent men, women and children were eventually butchered through mostly poison gassing, but also through barbaric methods such as starvation, disease, shooting and burning.
Он говорит, что её надо прочесть тем, кто...
Я ни по одному критерию в список не попадаю, но Стайрон говорит, что прочесть полезно всем.
Но всё же в его речи слышны нотки непонимания: я делал свою работу, даже в ущерб времени с семьёй, я старался на благо родины, уничтожал евреев.
Он наиболее честен, потому что это его дневники, которые не предназначались для посторонних глаз.
Он ещё хуже Гёсса, но только потому, что пассивное содействие или бездействие хуже активного.
Какие-то идеи проникают в его сознание легко, но затем он с этих идей сходить не намерен, вопреки даже здравому смыслу.
On the other hand, the poor folks sent to the gas chamber were regrettably just part of his job that couldn't be avoided....A pain and sadness, which he couldn't show to others, especially the officers under his command.Although, a fair amount of his recollections are self serving and steeped in a military honor perverted by Nazism, I do think that he was ultimately affected by the kindness of his Polish captors at the very end.
He paid for those fatal character flaws of being unable to express his deepest fears and doubts.I remember that I didn't really recognize the name when our guide through the camps told us about him, and I made a point of finding out more about this man who got handed one of the worst, amoral assignments in all military history.
Cette lecture m'a souvent mis mal à l’aise, car cet homme qui a accompli un travail monstrueux à l'extrême, n'est apparemment pas aussi anormal, inhumain ou bon à interner que ce à quoi on pourrait et voudrait s'attendre.
Entre autres, je citerais le fait qu'une grande partie du peuple allemand avait connaissance de l'extermination des juifs, mais qu'elle y était indifférente.
Une lecture parfois difficile, car éveillant de nombreux sentiments ou questions, mais instructive.
Rudolph Hoess a commandant of Auschwitz concentration camp has a story that I have never seen before.
This book details the life of Rudolf Hoess who grew up as a misfit young boy who was never able to fit in.
He became an SS and eventually moved to Auschwitz as a commandant when he opened it.
Rudolph Hoess was a regular guy he went to war fighting for the rights of his country like many.
Are the organized crime groups this oblivious, do they think that killing people over a couple hundred dollars is right.
Rudolph Hoess, the “consummate professional of the Holocaust” according to Ian Buruma, was more an apt candidate for the “banality of evil” than (the secretly fanatical) Adolf Eichmann.
Hoess wrote an autobiography while awaiting trial, and execution, in Poland in 1946.
These excerpts are edited by playwright Jurg Amann in a way intended for a theatrical reading.
Hoess reminisces about his childhood pony, early years as a soldier, early love, and his gradual rise through the SS to become the commandant of Auschwitz.
This edited document is easily assignable to students, perhaps in conjunction with camp survivors’ memoirs.
Another book that I was prompted to read after having watched a six-part series about Auschwitz on the AHC network.
This is the memoir of the man, Rudolf Höss, who served as the Kommandant of Auschwitz during most of its operation.
But, it does give great insight into the manner in which Höss, and many other Nazi leaders, approached their "jobs," and how in some measure they attempted to balance the need to be "numb" to the massive killings while at the same time express concern about the soldiers under their charge and deal with the demands of their superiors.
Because this memoir is something one reads as an historical curiosity rather than for literary merit, giving it a star rating seems a little pointless. Some of the chapters are intersting, but it definitely isn't a book most people will read cover to cover. Some details are horrific (as one would expect), other parts were quite tedious. One sentence that jumped out at me, from a chapter entitled The Gassings: "And yet, I really had no reason to complain about being bored at Auschwitz." Jesus. Glad to hear you weren't bored, Rudolf.
This book, about the WWII death camp of Auschwitz in Poland, was one of the most difficult books I have ever read.
It is the Holocaust as seen through the eyes of three Nazis.
They are SS-Hauptsturmführer Rudoff Höss, first commandant of KL Auschwitz, Pery Broad, served in the SS and Gestapo at Auschwitz, and Dr. Johann Kremer, a camp physician.
If one wants to get a picture into the self-serving mind of those SS monsters that committed the horrors of the Holocaust, read it at your own risk.
This is evil as its most banal.
