https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141051.Vegetarian_Cooking_for_Everyone
The instructions for that second recipe, to sum up, say to saute in oil thinly sliced onions until translucent, abut 4 minutes, and then add garlic, beans, tomato, and enough water to cover and simmer until tender.
I'm not how that qualifies as "time consuming" but like I said, my aunt was not into cooking.
(I was 9 at the time and had not yet learned that many people don't know how to cook.)Another page is bookmarked: "Spicy Potato, Tomato, and Pepper Tagine," "New Potato Gratin with tomatoes and olives," or "Spanish Potatoes with saffron, almonds, and bread crumbs." Maybe they all seemed too ambitious.
if you like to eat food you will like this book.
if you like to cook or wish you knew how you will like this book.
how better to pass 4 minutes then reading about kambocha squash.she has some elaborate recipes in here but what i really love the most is the basic information she provides.
like how to cook each type of dried bean and present stews for company (puff pastry on top makes a basic stew "company-ready" per lady madison.)in all fairness sometimes the recipes are a bit too indulgent with oil and dairy and require modification.
but I think that's just fine, since the recipes work well even for the non-Americans :) The book starts first with instructions for beginner cooks, then goes to recipes, listed by type, and startign with seasonings.
stocks, garnishes and steps to make them): corn chowder with new potatoes golden peppers and basil, roasted red pepper soup with polenta croutons, barley soup with caramelized onions and pecorino cheese* stews and stir-fries (incl.
basics, enchiladas, bread puddings): cauliflower gratin with tomatoes and feta, spicy potato tomato and pepper tangine, goat cheese enchiladas with corn and red mole* beans, lentils (incl.
That is to say, EVERYONE SHOULD OWN THIS BOOK.One of Deborah Madison's basic ideas is that covering a vegetable in garlic, olive oil, and parsley will make it more delicious, and I have found this to be true.
She has some other equally good basic ideas, and her approach has really shaped the way that I cook over the years.
And the cooked carrot salad with feta, paprika, and olives was a big hit last night, where there was some pretty stiff competition.....
Anyway, I love Deborah Madison.
The way I use the book is by buying whatever looks good, and then coming home and figuring out what to do with it.
There hasn't been a single meal I've made from this book that has been disappointing (though the Asian dishes tend to be sweet, if you're not into that kind of thing), and most of the best things I make (Barley and Kale Gratin, page 520--I didn't even have to look that one up!) are in here.
My final comment is that the book is very democratic in that it doesn't use a lot of obscure ingredients.
She does have some more exotic or specialized ingredients, but these can almost always be worked around if you can't find what you need.
This means that there is a high percentage of this book that I can't even use - all the pasta, rice, grain, bread, bean, and dessert recipes!Why do I rate it so highly, then?
(Red beans and rice, anyone?) Madison, however, is clearly truthful when she says these recipes are those she likes to cook - and Deborah Madison clearly adores vegetables!
The section on vegetable side dishes is quite extensive, and many of the appetizer, soup and entree recipes also incorporate generous and loving treatment of veggies.Furthermore, I have never made a recipe from this book that was not absolutely perfect.
Recently read this cover to cover, making a list of recipes to try in the next few months.
I've had this book for a few years and have made several recipes from it and have never been disappointed.
I consider this book one of the basic cookbooks that everyone should have in their repetoir, vegetarian or not.
A few sample recipes:Apple and Celery Salad with GruyereCarrot Red Pepper SoupButternut Squash Gratin with Onions and SageEggplant Rollatini with Corn Bread StuffingSummer Spaghetti with Corn and TomatoesNoodles in Thai Curry SauceOnion Galette with Mustard CreamPolenta Dumplings with Warm Sage and Garlic ButterCurried Quinoa with Peas and CashewsRisotto with Scallions, Lemon, and BasilCarmelized Golden TofuPear SmoothieLacy Buttermilk Corn Cakes with Pepper RelishGinger Cream SconesPeppered Cheese BreadSandwich Foccacia with RosemaryApricot GaletteChocolate TerrineMango Sherbet

Eh. Don't get me wrong.
there's a lot of good recipes in here.
But so many that involve animal products, especially cheese, which is much harder to replace than milk or yogurt.
There's also gluten, which I need to avoid as well.
So basically while the recipes cover a wide spectrum of basic vegetarian cooking, it's too much effort for me to sift through for the vegan gluten free ones.
If you are just looking to expand an omnivore's diet, however, or eat purely vegetarian, with dairy and eggs OK, this would be a great book for you.
The first vegetarian cookbook you should buy and the one on my shelf with the most stains.
Madison's lentil recipes changed my life. I want to cook my way through this entire book.
This book is an intensive guide to vegetables. However, the reason I love it are the cakes. These might be the best cakes I've ever baked.
This is a really solid and densely-packed cookbook that's easy to read, get ideas from, and modify.
Madison organizes recipes in a very sensible way, where you go to the section on soup, subsection on winter squash, and find a bunch of different variations all together.
She'll tell you how to make a bunch of different types of stock if you want to get fancy, but most of the recipes are fairly straightforward.
Same for allergen avoidance - she's not avoiding anything, but it's easy to work around whatever you have to avoid.
Bought the original in a used bookstore, then upgraded as a first wedding anniversary present. Madison knows whereof she speaks, and has crammed a wide variety of recipes into this book. Great for folks who are learning to cook, great for vegetarians and meat eaters alike.
This cookbook is great for basic, French-style cooking. There are a lot of good recipes for sauces and condiments. I find that this is not my g0-to cookbook, however. I like my food a little more exotic than this book offers.
the title says its for everyone but i feel like it didnt really appeal to me and every other Trans Fluid Octagon.
This is 'joy of cooking' massive, you could press flowers or even tofu with the book itself, but brilliant! Her sauces make me think. A keeper.
This is a very useful recipe to have, because of the instructions for preparing a very wide variety of vegetables.
I use the chapter on soups the most, because I do not really collect soup recipes.
If you want traditional recipes, with recommended spice amounts and ingredients, this is the book for that.
I would go with Bittman if you would prefer a basic recipe with suggestions on how to expand it to suit your preferences.
I find myself using Bittman's book as a regular reference much more than this one, because I have to make less alterations to the recipes because of food allergies.
The prose is simply nice to read - yes, I did take this into bed with me for some pre-sleepy-time reading!I've already noticed that I've become more adroit in the kitchen with a little help from the section on knives, which ones you need and how to use them.
Also, it's great to learn what to look for when selecting vegetables and how to handle each one.
It's easy, but not being a trained cook, I'd never have thought of it without help.So, if you're looking for information and inspiration for using vegetables and grains (it's not only rabbit food here, it's everything non-meat), then pick up a copy.
This book certainly has plenty of recipes, and they look easy enough and well explained enough.The problem is, I'm not much of a fan of squash of any kind.
And onions are great, but as a seasoning, not as large cooked squishy mouthfuls.
salad?I didn't give this book much of a chance, because when I flipped through it looking for something I wanted to try, I couldn't find anything.
All of the recipes (or so it seemed) were heavy on the squash, potatoes, eggplant, and large chunks of onions, or the dish just looked heavy in general.
Great design & layout, and a near perfect index (by my standards), along with color photographs, make for a beautiful book.
As she says of this book in her introduction, "If you are a committed vegetarian, you can cook every recipe in this book.
If you're a lapsed vegetarian or, like me, you don't attach a label to your eating style,you can still cook everything in this book and serve it with meat, fish or fowl.
This book is really a source for those who want lots of vegetable recipes and information .
While I have most all of her cookbooks this is my absolute favorite.
My absolute favorite of any cookbook (except Fanny at Chez Panisse).This is not just for vegetarians.
I have yet to make anything in this cookbook that is not truly good.
She also explains things to people who are intimidated by cooking as a rule.
This is a good book for anyone who shied away from veggies because they were raised on over-cooked, soggy unrecognizable vegetables.
Why did people ever imagine that was appetizing??
this book is so awesome i can't even begin to describe it because it would take too long.
in summary, this book is not just for vegetarians but for anyone who wants to know how to cook non-meat things.
most cookbooks use up most of the room for meat recipes leaving other things as just things to eat on the side.
this book tells you how to cook delicious things and whether you choose to add meat to them or have them on the side is totally up to you.
like i said, it's so awesome you really shouldn't be without this book.
It's not necessarily because the recipes are the best tasting (don't get me wrong, most are delicious, but I've made better meals from other books); it's more that she offers an excellent balance between gourmet and simplicity.
Before I really knew how to cook, I could make almost any recipe in this book and she easily explained how to use any techniques I hadn't used before.
It's a great resource for anyone vegetarian or non-vegetarian who likes to try new recipes, and wants to become a better cook, but doesn't want to have to spend extra time looking up how to do certain techniques.
Wow. This is the most comprehensive cookbook I think I've ever read.
I even like it more than Bittman's How to Cook Everything Vegetarian.A few of the ingredients look expensive/hard to find, but maybe that's just due to where I live.
Everything looks super easy to make, as well.Maybe after I've had a chance to make some recipes, I'll revisit my rating.After making some food: I'm less impressed.
First of all, more than half of the recipes I wanted to make, couldn't be made because the ingredients were nowhere to be found in my city.
Nowhere.Secondly, the recipes I was able to make were nothing special.
Hard to say one "read" a cookbook...but I checked this out of the library and enjoyed going through it page by page because I love her chatty tone and pragmatic how-tos with each recipe, as well as general instruction on cooking.
Most of the recipes are accessibly presented.
There are also some great ideas for more complex, robust vegetarian entrees and meals.
I'm not vegetarian, but this cookbook covers so much about so much food and meal prep in general that I'll be regularly eating out of it and using it as a reference as soon as I buy a copy.
I love this book for two reasons.
One, the recipes describe simple ways to make complex and subtle flavors.
Think black bean spread with a sniff of smoky chipotle.
I will be exploring this book for the rest of my life, I'm sure; for example, while flipping through it tonight I discovered that I can pulverize sesame seeds with a little salt to make an excellent topping for oatmeal.
I recommend this to anyone who likes to eat fresh and well, but doesn't want to spend their life in the kitchen.
Well, let me expand that: I recommend this book to anyone who eats.
The book's worth it for the butternut squash and tofu stew alone.
It is totally delicious.
However, a number of the other recipes don't work--especially the baked goods and some of the savory custard tarts if you're not in the southwestern US (a friend there and I have compared results and have had totally different outcomes on the same recipes--hers work, mine don't--and we both know how to bake).It's also a good reference for how to cook all sorts of vegetables and would be a decent stand in for the Joy of Cooking for people who don't care about cooking meat.
It's also how I learned I was allergic to hijiki, so I might be a little bitter since that was one of the worst nights of my life.
This is an essential book for anyone who likes to cook with lots of veggies, whether you're a vegan, a vegetarian, or a confirmed omnivore.
The book includes virtually every vegetable you could ever think of, providing a section for each specimen with prep, cooking and storage tips, and a couple of sample recipes highlighting each veg.
This is in addition to a wealth of general cooking tips and tricks, and a whole treasure trove of helpful information for cooking pros and the kitchen-impaired alike.I enthusiastically recommend this book to anyone who'd like to veg up their diet but have no idea how to make it interesting.
This book will get you steaming and sauteeing faster than you can say 'greens'.
A great cookbook, truly for everyone: vegetarians, meat-eaters (who will find lots of good side dishes or who can change dishes according to their preferences), kosher-keepers (it's easy to find parve/dairy dishes), and vegans (Madison specifically notes that almost all recipes can be altered to make them vegan).
This is our Food Bible: we make the leek and potato soup all the time, as well as the golden gratin.
The golden gratin is the first dish I ever tasted rutabaga in, and I subsequently fell in love with this veg.
