https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73906.Taliesin
Of all of the great books I've read around the King Arthur legend, this is my favorite.
It is acutally about Merlin's parents, and involves the lost city of Atlantis and it is a beautiful but sad love story.
At least that is what I feel when I remember the book; it has been years since I read it.
And what's more interesting is that the description on Amazon talks of a message and symbolism in the story akin to C.S. Lewis.
I don't remember that, so I want to read it yet again, which makes it a 5 on my criteria scale.
:-) The two alternating strands of narrative, Charis' and Taliesin's, which will finally intertwine, are eventful and attention-grabbing; the characterization is sharp (Charis was initially hard for me to relate to because her age in the first part of the book wasn't specified --I eventually deduced it to be 12 or 13-- but she grows into a splendid heroine); the Atlantean and Celtic worlds are vividly evoked, and some key scenes are drawn with great power.
And if I don't rush to add the sequel to my to-read shelf, it's only because there are too many books there already; eventually, I would like to follow up on this series.
His writing reflects the oddity of the many Arthurian source texts - Merlin is always problematic, the hugely variable character of Arthur, Guinevere's choices and actions,etc.Considering if Arthur existed he likely lived around 400AD (long before courtly love or a true England), Lawhead puts us in exactly the right time period.
I also love Lawhead's portrayal of Guinevere, even though it deviates bit from the original sources.I would recommend these - there are fantastic/magical elements, especially in Taliesin and Merlin, but that is an essential part of all the original sources (and most ancient and Medieval texts).
Perhaps it's that I set the bar too high, expecting great things from such a renowned author, or perhaps it's that I'm reading the cycle for my dissertation and hence got overly critical, but either way, the book suffers from poor writing, poor plotting, and a few major historical inaccuracies that ruined it for me.The writing: passive voice abounds.
I spend most of the book wondering why any of the stuff Lawhead was telling us about was in any way important.And the historical inaccuracies: unless some sort of time-travel occurs that I missed, Lawhead has Atlantis sink in the 400s AD, right around the time the Romans are withdrawing from Britain.
While across a vast sea, bloody war shattered a peace that had flourished for two thousand years in the doomed kingdom of Atlantis.Taliesin is the remarkable adventure of Charis, the Atlantean princess who escaped the terrible devastation of her homeland, and of the fabled seer and druid prince Taliesin, singer at the dawn of the age.
It is the story of an incomparable love that joined two worlds amid the fires of chaos, and spawned the miracles of Merlin...and Arthur the king.My Review: Ohfagawdsake.An Atlantean princess?
Atlantis, assuming Plato told the truth, sank over 3500 years before this book takes place.
This is my first review here so I thought I would start with one that has meant the most to me.
I was blown away from the very start.
I read this book a while back(a long while) and I still am blown away by how tender this book was.
The story is about beauty of the soul.
As i've said before this is my first review so I may not be that good at it but this book really left a lasting impression on me.
Reading Porius reminded me how much I liked this book when I was 12 or 13 and got it from a little bookshop in North Wales. I figure if it stayed with me this long, it must be worth 4 stars at least.
Suddenly, the book speeds up to an alarming pace, and Lawhead decides that he's going to stop building character, and instead plow through tons of legend-inspired storyline to show off that Yes, he did do his research and Yes, he'd be happy to prove it.
What started as a compelling, if somewhat simplistic, character drama, turns instead to a very distracted tale of legend.Adding insult to injury is the (to me) intolerable way that Christianity is shoved down the reader's throat in the last half of the book.
well, because Taliesin has an internal monologue which goes "Why would this God be better than the rest?
In reading it I found a way to stress both aspects of the Christian story that have always been held in tension:--The coming Kingdom of Christ and by implication, the renewing and giving of life, real life, to the world.--the destruction of the evil elements of the world.Whether or not Lawhead fully realized this theological implication (and I doubt he did) he masterfully brought out the tensions in both and thus, ironically, harmonized them.
The writing borders on beautiful at times.THE BAD ASPECTS OF THE BOOK (and the rest of the series).Lawhead treats heretics as heroes of the faith (in all fairness, however, this is seen in other series, not this one).
Tried it a second time and I'm the first to admit this time it was purely my own fault that I didn't get further than page 100 -- I'd borrowed the audiobook while listening to something else, and then once I got around to Taliesin I had 6 days in which to read it, listened for 2 days and then missed 3 because of a combination of things -- once again, mainly not in the mood for it.
Maybe I'll come back in a few months or a year.
Epic historical fantasy series opener! I loved seeing Arthurian legend begin to come together with Merlin's parents - Charis, a princess of Atlantis who just managed to escape the devastation, and Taliesin, a druid Prince and talented seer. If you're interested in Arthurian legend, you have to try this novel. Now, I need to get my hands on the sequel!
I am discovering small gems on the free shelf and so it is with "Taliesin"."I will weep no more for the lost, asleep in their water graves......" is how the book begins.
Lawhead has managed to combine the tale of Atlantis and the tale of the most famous bard (out side of Merlin that is) Taliesin.
And thus begins the story of Taliesin of the radiant brow.This book, as I said, is a charming read, and the reader is enveloped in the mysteries of Druids and seers, Roman occupation, war, and the destruction of Atlantis.

This was quite an engaging read. I love how Atlantis is worked into the early beginnings of a King Arthur tale. Can't wait to see how the story continues with the next book: Merlin!
This was an amazing book! It had a great combination of fantasy, adventure, tragedy and romance. I found the style of writing engaging and the plot was great. I really enjoyed it - one of the best books I've ever read!
One of the best adaptions of the Aurthorian legend (this is the first step in said legend).And believe me I'm sick to death of all the adaptions. Enough already King Arthur is a great character but let him rest. Still this is a good series of books.
In fact, for most of the book I wasn’t even sure how any of this related—in my flimsy knowledge—to Arthurian Legend or how each POV related to each other.That is, I was confused until Taliesin, hot off a dream-like vision of Charis, begins referring to her as the Lady in the Lake when they finally meet, two-thirds into the novel.
At least Taliesin only declares his love for Charis, never having spoken to her before and that because he wars publicly with Avallach about just whom is going to marry his daughter.Unrealistic and ridiculously saccharine romance aside, the only other complaint I have (although I wish I had none) was the degree of enthusiasm a few of these characters had for Christianity.
In some ways it was, and in other ways I did not enjoy the book at all.This goes way back in the Arthurian legends to tell the tale of Merlin's parents.
In this Arthurian legend especially, where a lot of paganism is involved, it is very disconcerting to read a book that expresses the beliefs this way instead of being a fabulous work of fantasy.
While it is a fantasy tale, there are some genres like the Arthurian legends, where are you taking a risk by deviating well accepted norms within the genre.
Call me a sucker for a tough girl, but I adored the character of Charis.
The fact that he spends most of the book viewed from other characters' perspectives probably indicates that Lawhead was trying to set him up as this legendary figure, relying on his fame to...oh wait, ooooops, actually, Taliesin isn't all that famous.
The trouble with Taliesin is that my beloved Charis promptly transforms into a lovestruck goofball the instant she encounters him, which from that point on basically turns the book into Twilight for me.
Charis basically likes Taliesin because he's hot.
Who knows?I enjoyed this book a lot, don't get me wrong.
His efforts at building suspense were completely lost on me and I never once developed an affinity for his protagonists.I read about 40% of this book and I specifically wanted to make sure that I read the parts some reviewers have claimed were "forcibly Christian", "preachy", "propagandist", and so on, and I did.
As a Christian who is not against this sort of thing in principle I was kind of anxious to see if Lawhead had proven equal to the task.
It was worth a try I suppose and apparently there have been some who have proven good soil for Lawhead's efforts, but on a purely aesthetic level, I think it flopped.Overall I just found this book to be really rather boring.
having never read atlantean or arthurian legends, i started out enthralled and eager to dive deeper into these myths.
the book went from boring to intolerable upon the abrupt interpolation of two christians - or rather, of jarring sermonettes that hopelessly disrupted an already agonizing pace.
i suppose this is forcibly christian fiction at its finest, which might have been more of a shame if the book hadn't lost me about a hundred pages before the lectures began.
They're all so pretty and lilting and beautiful, and I wish people had names like that nowdays.Every single one of the characters is real and so 3-D.
Charis and Taliesin, and all the rest were real and I completely lived the story through their experience.
And a creep.The style the book is written in is amazing.
And how it's all a story written by Charis years later is really cool.
It's a really pretty style that completely reflects the feel and setting of the actual story.I may or may not have almost cried at the ending.
The style isn't always easy to connect with, but I, personally, love it to pieces.
Ich bin so happy, dass ich für dieses Buch immer noch 5 von Herzen kommende Sterne vergeben kann.Das ist ja längst nicht mit allen Büchern aus meiner Jugendzeit so.
Aber Taliesin hat mich wieder gepackt und immer noch meine liebste Merlin-Artus-Saga.Den Twist, Atlantis mit in die Geschichte zu packen, finde ich genial und ist überaus geschickt gemacht.Die Charakter haben Tiefe, Ecken und Kanten.
Taliesin selbst bleibt immer ein bisschen unnahbar, das passt aber gut zu seinem Charakter.
Mein Lieblingscharakter dürfte wohl Elphin sein.5 Sterne für den grandiosen Auftakt in die beste Merlin-Artus-Saga die ich je gelesen habe.
As a prospective writer I found this book amazing for resting and relaxing as well as a how to guide of how to write time lapses, logically and coherently in about 50 different ways.
The characters show real growth and in such an epic read it is a continual growth process not a onetime thing.
This is really one of the best ever epic fantasy books I have read in a very long list of books in this genre, I will most assuredly recommend this to all fantasy genre lovers.I “read” this on audio and the mastery of the narrator .
WaAr
In the last year I had seen this book referenced a couple of times regarding the superversive literary movement. I totally enjoyed this as a blending of the myth of Atlantis and King Arthurs Court. Just brilliantly done. I also liked how the story of the historical Taliesin was used to blend these stories giving it a historical fantasy flavor. Plus as any good historical look at the King Arthur story, Christianity should not be left out and it is part of the story here.
This book tells simultaneously the story of the fall of Atlantis, the subsequent travel of Princess Charis and her family to Ynys Prydein (Britain), and the discovery and training of Taliesin as a druid-bard. The two eventually meet, marry, and Myrddin (Merlin) is born, just weeks before a tragedy brought about by Charis' jealous half-sister, Morgian.
Okay, a series on King Arthur opens in Atlantis? Atlantis! It's kind of downhill from there.It was well done, and a fun read, but I expected better from Lawhead.
crec que llavors escrivia millor sobre els llibres, i tot el que dic ho segueixo pensant, inclús el fet de voler llegir de seguida els llibres següents (per què no ho vaig fer?) Aquí les meves paraules:Comença amb dues històries, la de la Charis, la filla del rei Avallach, que viu a l'Atlàntida, i la d'en Taliesin, un nen que és trobat recent nascut pel príncep Elphin.M'he quedat amb les ganes de saber d'on provenia realment en Taliesin, però suposo que això ajuda a fomentar l'aura de misteri que envolta al personatge.Tot i així, aquest llibre comença a posar les pedres de la llegenda del gran mag.
It has been a long time since I have been so enthralled by a story that I could hardly wait until the next opportunity to sit and continue reading.
I am starting 'Merlin' today!A masterful integration of history, mythology, and story-telling, Lawhead creates a poignant retelling of a very old tale, creating a new vision of the dawn of the Arthurian age.
Lawhead reintroduces traditional characters, giving them new depth while retaining their iconic characteristics.
He introduces new characters that fill the unspoken gaps left in our minds by traditional tales.
This ambitious series is a retelling of the King Arthur legend (one of my all time favorites!) from the very beginning.
As in, the book opens with Merlin's great-grandfather.The story switches between a princess of Atlantis, Charis, and Taliesin, the druid son of a Briton chief.
The previously mentioned great-grandfather is on the page at the same time as Charis, who appears to be a teenager.
Only later is is (sort of) clarified that she is a child, but the passage of time was tricky.The Atlantean angle seems interesting but unnecessary, though perhaps it will indeed add an important element to the story.
