https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/132688.The_Way_to_Cook
A number of years ago, scientists at the Western Regional Research Center of the U.S. Department of Agriculture in Albany, California, discovered that dried beans do indeed contain elements some people find difficult to digest.
To cope, the human intestines send out voluminous gases of protest and rebellion.Fortunately, however, these same scientists found that about 80 percent of the offending elements are soluble in water.
Then add fresh water, cook the beans, and goodbye troubles for most bean eaters.“But doesn’t this also drain the nutrients out of the beans?” ask some nutritionally anxious cooks.
There is but a minimal loss, say the scientists.
This is a book that is very much worth having.
For me, it has it's obvious limitations, because I don't eat meat, but it's been very useful for fish; and although I consider myself having a good hold of it already, vegetable preparations.
The format of the book, with the master recipes and variations, is comprehensive and very informative, a handbook on *the way to cook*, not just recipes.
This does, however, require more time studying and reading than a recipes-only cookbook, which is an attribute if one wishes to know a very lot (though not nearly everything) of the way to cook.
This modestly-titled, huge book has, besides Julia's trademark je ne cest quoi, detailed directions on how to make anything.
Armed with this book and some patience, anyone can learn to cook almost anything that isn't specifically country-based (e.g., sushi).
I considered myself an experienced and pretty good cook when I first got this book, but I've learned so much from it that my skills have improved a great deal.
Julia's breezy yet bossy way will amuse the reader, and the mouth-watering food will keep the cook coming back to this book again and again.
Timeless. Perfect. I love the way this one is organized. It corresponds to a lot of video segments you can find on You Tube, so you can watch Julia do it first. <3
Some of the recipes in here are a bit dated for American home cooks (not sure many people are going to be touching the chicken aspic), but the majority of the book is full of good, practical food and instruction you can rely on. When in doubt on how to make something, grab the Julia Child book first... she'll walk you through it with good step by step instructions and pictures. This is the book I toss at people who are learning to cook - particularily meats, breads, vegetables, pastries, and stews.Definitely worth a try:French BreadBeef Zinfandel (stew)
If I ate meat, this book would surely get four stars.
If it incorporated ethnic or non-European ingredients to any degree, it would even get five!
The master recipes and their variations are concise and Julia's entertaining and opinionated writing shines.
But no tortillas or salsa, no soy sauce, no couscous or hot peppers or tofu or ginger...even most of the cheese called for is Swiss!
The book is a wonderful resource for European-based American food, but in this American century, I don't think this can quite be considered "the way to cook." I can't decide if I would want to own it or not.
One of the best books on how to cook, not just recipes, but technique, step by step through recipes and permutations, not to mention how to use leftovers, or as she states "feasting on the remains". As a home cook, I learned much and still refer to my aging copy frequently for questions or direction on how to best approach a dish. Not to mention her meatloaf recipe is the best.
I think Julia Child was one of a kind and I've read lots and lots about her and by her but never her "Bible" (Mastering the Art of French Cooking) or this new testament. For me, I need bigger pictures and shorter ingredient lists to get excited about actually trying a recipe, but I did enjoy her commentary. Fun to flip through but not a keeper.
Just about my all time favorite. I've learned so much, but the thing I use the most is how to boil an egg.
One of my go to cookbooks. Fond memories every time I use this cookbook
My first copy of this book has seen a little too much wear. Time to purchase another one. Hey, at least I can prepare the best hard boiled egg of anyone I know! Time for 10 star option.
I use this all the time. It is well written and organized. It is my favorite cookbook, and I have nearly worn it out. I cook all the time, teach cooking classes and entertain frequently. Of the many cookbooks I have, this is my go to.
In this cookbook, Julia child updates some of her cooking techniques, introducing cooking methods such as the microwave. This is an excellent book for beginner cooks, and there are treats for seasoned cooks as well.
this book teaches the proper way of cooking. i suggest this book to all food lovers.
What a great book. I wanted to know more about Julia Child after watching the movie and decided to get this book and read it thoroughly. I enjoyed it deeply.
It's Julia...what more can I say?
This is Julia at her best! Each of the dishes included are presented in a rather simple manner. True, the included dishes may venture beyond a "typical" home dinner but let's face it, there are times we all want to venture away from the "usual." There is also a video series to go along with this book and you can find some of them on the Net.
Friends who know me will snicker at this obvious addition to my "already read" shelf, as I'm a self-styled Julia Child hag.
One that I can honestly say I have read -- not scanned or cooked from.
This was a techniques book before food styling was a profession.We are now late enough in history for "foamed food" to have come into vogue, gone out, and returned.
Julia taught to cook with with dried spices.This was cookery for a simpler time.
A time that will never return -- good riddance, maybe -- but it's nice to pretend to remember.
This book is my go-to for any culinary question. The recipes range from simple to complicated but because Julia Child had a way with teaching, you never feel overwhelmed. And, not only that, she explains how to properly carve a chicken, trim meat- all those things that you should know never bothered asking our mother (that is if my mother ever actually knew). I also reference this when I see other recipes and I am not sure if they make sense. I recommend owning it. You never know when it will come in handy.
After reading APPETITE FOR LIFE I felt that Julia Child believed this cookbook to be her greatest. It is amazing in its depth and breadth of types of food, the incredibly detailed explanations, the photographs, and her voice comes through loud and strong. I couldn't believe how BIG the book is--its size and length. I haven't read every single recipe, but I want to tackle a few of my favorites, for example, the recipe for French bread! (She doesn't tell how many hundreds of loaves she and Paul baked in the interest of creating the perfect recipe!!).
What can you say...? Julia's voice in her cookbooks is so prevalent and clear. In difficult recipes she guides you through with reassurance and authority--I just love her. There are many recipes in this book I make over and over: her beef bourguignon, her scalloped potatoes--her pizza with tomato sauce recipe we can live without! (we just made it last night!). I just adore her. We are so lucky to have had her in our lives and in our kitchens.
A must have...I got this as a precursor to her MTAFC Vols. I & II, and am glad I did. Goes from basics to more complex variations of classic dishes. I have referenced this book a lot, much like I use the Joy of Cooking, to compare recipes, look at methods of roasting, baking, etc. A good first JC cookbook! That said, who on earth makes aspic (cold poultry suspended in jello) anymore?! Ugh...
Julia Child knows what she is doing in the kitchen. This book is more for learning technique than actually cooking anything, because really the majority of the recipes call for tarragon layed across a chicken pate covered in aspic, and who really wants to eat that? Next stop will be a full set of Mastery of French Cooking. Oh my.
Julia Child has been one of my heroes for years - she singlehandedly changed America's eating habits when jello and meat & potatoes were the norm. Julia's books plus her "Cooking With Julia" half hour television show made us all feel that we too could become experts in the kitchen ...not that we could but .. even so her books are a delight. I return to them again and again.
If I could only keep one from my vast stores of cookbooks, this would be it. Nearly every page is spattered with batter, or oil, or some other kitchen effluvia. Julia's great jubilation in producing succulent dishes shines through every one of the beautifully composed pages. I come back to it again and again.
My go-to resource when I need precision in my cooking or baking. Julia's La Tarte Tatin is an other-worldly dessert and a delicious example of the importance of technique in baking. It is a recipe I make whenever I need to remind myself that it is worth the time and effort to make pie dough from scratch.
To know Julia was to love her. To love her was to cook from one of her recipes. The key, with the exception of deserts, is to read the recipe and make it your own, put your own soul into. Deserts, you can't do that. You have to put love into them, but you've got to follow them to the T or else they'll be ruined.
This is my go-to cookbook. For my mother it was Joy of Cooking but when I need to know how long to roast, what temperature is safe, how to make the perfect gravy, its all here with Julia's wit, bevity and good solid instruction. And I am reminded of meeting her many times while I lived in Boston as I look at the lovely inscription from her in the front of my well loved and well worn copy.
ok, i have to be real here. this book is great, but julia isn't the greatest cookbook writer. her instructions are hard to follow. you have to read it very, very carefully and her recipes take 10 times longer to make than ones that you might find online. BUT there's a reason to her madness...her recipes are the "dankest" ever. it's like going to a 5-star restaurant. it's that good.
Once you figure out how to navigate this the recipes come out well. However, the book is large, dry, and confusing (i.e a "recipe" for bûche de noël where every component is in a different part of the book.) The recipe for madelines is very good and ALWAYS releases from the pan.
