https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/892295.The_Annotated_Sherlock_Holmes

No one has ever topped Sherlock Holmes for me. All of the extra material in these books is wonderful. This is the 3rd complete SH anthology I have owned. I bought the second one for the illustrations and this one for the annotations.
The best single-volume carryable collection of Holmes stories is Sherlock: The Essential Arthur Conan Doyle Adventures, selected and introduced by Mark Gatiss and Steven Moffat.
This volume--better in the 2-vol.
version, though I have a backbreaking single vol.--is what you want when you want to read a sentence, look at a picture, contemplate Victorian London, fall asleep, wake up, take a shower, and read the next sentence.
Or a whole story, even.
The order is disorienting, and the whole conceit--these are true stories that reveal the flaws in Watson's "memory"--is especially confusing when your fever is high.
But there isn't a better sickbed companion.
I am lucky enough to own both volumes of the Annotated Sherlock Holmes.
If you love Sherlock Holmes and you have an opportunity to purchase this two volume set, do not hesitate!
Bring your wallet and acquire it as both a pleasure and an investment in 1000's of details you never knew about Holmes and his times.
A lovely bibliophile's treasure of Arthur Conan Doyle's most famous works.
I take very careful care of my annotated SH; the only sign of age over the years is damage to one of the dust covers, as I'm afraid I have loved and still love these huge books too, too much!
I love all things Sherlock Holmes.This annootated set is simply amazing.
I'm so impressed with it that I own TWO sets of them.
LOL!I started reading Sherlock Holmes stories when I was in 5th grade based on my dad suggestion.
Now my dad doesn't read much fiction so for him to reccomend something is pretty rare.Since I started reading Holmesat a fairly impressionable age I feel like I grew up with him.
It's kinda strange--and yet neat at the same time.I've read the stories over and over again since then and have always enjoyed thim.I seem to pick up some new fact or reference in the annotations every time I read a story again.
I bought these volumes for 75 cents each ten years ago because they looked cool, and am still picking them up when I can't sleep or have the flu or need a good story.
We got some Sherlock Holmes audio books for a road trip a couple of years ago, and while they were a lot of fun, it's really not the same for me to hear these stories without the long digressions about someone's profound research into 19th century train tables, lunar charts, or cigar industry trivia that has prompted them to call into doubt the *actual* motives lurking under the surface of the story.
The actual Sherlock Holmes stories are great fun. Give them five stars. But I was quite disappointed with the annotations. Something like 80% of them are all about the game of pretending that Sherlock Holmes and Watson actually lived and Watson disguised the people and places in the stories. So there are endless notes about what day of the week this took place on so it must have been this particular year, when you take into account the actual train schedule for that year ... It's all very tiresome.But ignore that part and just read the stories!
The complete 56 short stories and 4 novels about Holmes, along with excellent annotation and explanatory esssays about Dr. Bell and other relevant topics. Although it took me several weeks to read all of both volumes, this was a task I turned to with great excitement every night after the boys were asleep.
Many of the annotations involve dates, and news excerpts proving or disproving that the events in the story actually could have taken place on a particular Sunday, or if that year had a holiday that would have rendered that impossible.
When the vast majority of annotations read in this manner, I quickly lost all interest in reading them.
And then I wondered why I was reading this bulky book, when I could just switch to a lighter hardcover with all the illustrations and all the same stories.When the annotations for an annotated edition of Sherlock Holmes are not worth reading.
The ultimate in all things SherlockThis review is from: The Annotated Sherlock Holmes: The Four Novels and the Fifty-Six Short Stories Complete (2 Volume Set) (Hardcover)I regard this two volume set as one of the best gifts I have ever received.
All of the Doyle stories with annotations, commentary & biographical detail.
Not biographical detail of Doyle, but of Holmes.
There is even learned speculation concerning Holmes whereabouts & activities during the period in which the world believed him to be dead.
Similar material brings Holmes, Watson & their world to life as never before.
Loved it! Annotations helped to understand references that are easily lost on modern readers (like myself, I'm a totally modern reader, I wasn't around until the 1970's) and also points out inconsistencies and inaccuracies, and potential resolutions to some of them. Increased my appreciation for the stories immensely.
Have read all of Doyle's Sherlock Holmes and probably others as well, just never bothered to put them in to amazon or goodreads, so dates wrong. Some KU some paperback some hardback some collections.
Just love Sherlock Holmes and gives you a view of world in the 1890s
The entire collection of the Sherlock Holmes novels and short story collections. Finally finished the series and would highly recommend it.
1) "I Hear of Sherlock Everywhere Since You Became His Chronicler"2) "He Is Now Translating My Small
Since that time, Holmes has appeared in dozens of other books, radio dramas, TV shows, and movies.I am sure that many of you have seen a Sherlock Holmes movie or TV show, but I wonder how many have read one of the original stories.
As the years go by, I am sure we will see many more interesting interpretations of this famous detective.
I would encourage you, however, to pick up a copy of Doyle's work and experience Holmes and Watson as the author created them.
Once I was out of school and in the military, I had very little time to read or space to keep a set of books.
When our daughter was born, we spent more time at home.
That's when I became interested in reading.
My wife reads all the time.
So, when the baby was asleep, I grabbed this encyclopediaesque reference book on the world's most famous detective and found it absolutely fascinating.
Not only, did I get to read all of my favorite stories, but I learned so much about the characters.
These books area a real treasure.
Especially so because I seen almost every decent Sherlock Holmes movie and read everything about Doyle that I could get my hands on and I really should have dedicated more time to reading the books by now.
The one I did read was fantastic though, and though I usually am quite good a figuring out whodunit, I did not see it coming when the murderer was revealed and how everything was connected.
These books have affected my life so greatly but in such a indirect sort of manner.
I love this book or rather books as it is a two volume set.
I got it as a Christmas present many years ago and it is one of my all time favorites.
It's beautifully done with tons of extra information about the stories and the author and filled with the exquisite illustrations from the original stories in the Strand.
I have used it as a reference many times over the years and especially during the perfectly executed TV series starring Jeremy Brett.
For me this is Christmas personified--Victorian, mysterious and rich with past memories.
I'd only read a few Sherlock Holmes stories before my godmother gave me this in two volumes. They are all the short stories and novels in estimated chronological order of when they took place. The stories are classics and just as hard to figure out now as I'm sure they were back when they originally were published. Also, this edition has notes and essays about the time period and what influenced Arthur Conan Doyle. Some of these are distracting and occasionally irrelevant when taking the stories too seriously, but adds a nice touch for Holmes fans.
I never knew there were so many 'Holmesites'. They are every bit as ardent as Janeites, and Holmes is not even a real person! There are newer annotated versions, but this one is the best. I not only gained a new appreciation for readers who really get into a work of literature, but I enjoyed the stories immensely. I first read the two large volumes borrowed from the library, but I eventually bought my own copy.
I have some doubts about Baring-Gould's interpretations of the Holmes stories--just to be absolutely clear, there are several schools of thought about the stories even among Holmes aficionados, not to mention the fact that, gee, the books were published forty years ago, after Baring-Gould'd death. Honestly, has anyone come up with an annotated version as extensive as this? (no, really. I'd like to know.)
The fact that this is the complete collection is great but the main feature here is the annotations and how does that hold up? Well half of it is background info that either does or doesn't add much to the original stories. The other half of the annotations are quotes from random people or fan theories. While this may interest some, most of the relevant info an be found elsewhere including the stories themselves...for free. 3/5
This two book, hard bound, and thoroughly annotated version contains the four novels and fifty-six short stories. Beautifully illustrated with art from a multitude of publications, this is my favorite collection of Sherlock Holmes.I read it for me, then read the stories to Seanie and Chris. I will probably read some of the stories from this book to Ari and Dorian as well.
For me this will always be the definitive text. Conan Doyle's stories and novels are accompanied by footnotes, detailing everything from what a gasgogene was to how much a pound was worth in US dollars at the time to what date Baring-Gould and his fellow Sherlockians assign to the story (because we are pretending these were all actual events and that Holmes & Watson were real).
I actually did one volume of this last year and finished the 2nd this past week. I think there are many things about the annotations which are inadequate but I still love these volumes and enjoy the background information they provide on all the stories. I think nearly any Sherlockian will enjoy reading this!
These stories are timeless. These annotations... not so much. Baring-Gould played the game with gusto. Klinger's annotations are less dense, perhaps, but closer to useful literary critical thought. Baring-Gould's edition is a classic; Leslie Klinger's is probably a more sensible choice for the casually curious.
Oh, what a treasure trove these two volumes are for the avid fan of Sherlock Holmes, his faithful chronicler Dr. Watson, and their intrepid advocate Sir Artur Conan Doyle. An astonishing work of erudite intensity, and absolutely the cornerstone of any serious Holmes fans library, as it most certainly is of mine.
After you have read all of the Sherlock Holme's stories, read the annotated version. The annotations add immensely to understanding and creating the atmosphere of the time period. Plus there is additional history of the times, people, and places. I understood what was happening in the stories much better after reading the annotations.
Reading the canon with insight from above is always helpful. Seriously - for the stressed out and hectic lifestyle most lead revisiting the old mysteries can almost be like a medicine. To be able to read a mystery without political undertones or political correctness is still fun.
