https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/600278.The_Breaking_Point
Nope. Don't like the characters, don't like the set-up, don't like the feel of the prose. Just boring & blah. But I'll give it the standard DNF 2-stars regardless; it's not poorly written in the grammatical sense, so perhaps it's me not jiving with the author's style. Or maybe it's not one of her better books...? *shrug* I'll try MRH again someday & find out.
Yes, there was a murder but it happened ten years ago and in fact at the start of the story we even told who committed it but he is thought to have died in a snow storm.
To say anything more would be revealing too much, better to emerge yourself in the story.
Of the many aspects that enthralled me the one that most strikes me is the decency of some of the main characters.
But the decency of the best characters gives your heart joy and a wish to find such people still existing today.
I'm actually listening to a Librivox version of this mystery. About a young doctor living in the east, who can only remember his life from the most recent 10 years. People from a traveling theater group recognize him as someone from the west who ran away after a murder. Very good.
Free download at Many Books.
Instead of focusing on Elizabeth, the book mainly focuses on Dick, a young reporter trying to garner the truth, and various other characters as they come in and out of the story.
It's a past he doesn't remember, but one he feels he needs to know about in order to move on with his life, a life he wants with Elizabeth.Now I don't want you to get the impression that there isn't a mystery here, because there is.
Now it's up to Dick, David, the young reporter, and a few other friends to piece together the truth and finally put the past to rest.
Group read with Public Domain Readers.
I read it on Gutenberg.
Audiobook on Librivox.Dick Livingstone is a successful doctor.
But he has a mysterious past that he can't remember.
He didn't care about the future till he knew of his love to Elizabeth Wheeler.
Now, he can't propose to her without knowing his past.
He's afraid that his past might negatively affect his dear ones.
He must know who he was?
Why does David object to Dick's going to Norada?
Did he commit a murder in his past?
Will he ever be free and start afresh again with Elizabeth?
| One of the things about reading mysteries of the early 20th century is that you know there will be certain happy endings.
As the book went on I could see where the author could choose an acceptable ending that wasn't Dick and Elizabeth happily ever after, and further it became harder and harder to see any way they could be together.
This provided more suspense than I usually get in these books, and the combination of the dual sides of Dick's life and the sight twist that was the solution to the mystery gave a good payoff.
This book was written over 100 years ago and was touted for its suspense and drama. It focuses on a young doctor who falls in love with Elizabeth - a woman who sings in the choir... At least this is what the jacket says. I found it a loooong read.
It went on and on.
As such, I picked up this book with a bit of trepidation ...And loved it.
In this case, literally.The story takes a melodramatic turn when he finds out that prior to an illness 10 years earlier resulting in amnesia, he had lived a completely different life - one that seems to completely obliterate any chances of a happy ending.Since it was written in 1922, not all of the medical and psycological aspects of the book are correct.
But even so, Rinehart delves into how the human mind works, and mixes that with how human nature works, to create a suspenseful, dramatic, mystery story.
I wanted to like this book, the first Mary Robert Rinehart I've read.
I remember my mother loving this author so when I saw it was available I decided to try it.Dr. Dick Livingston has joined his uncle David in his general practice in small East Coast village.
Dick is a quiet man with a mysterious past, but he is well-regarded in the village.
The star's manager is appalled when he looks out into the audience and sees Dick there.
The only real suspense was whether or not a half-brother existed, and whether or not Elizabeth and Dr. Dick would marry.
I listened to this book via Librivox and quite enjoyed it.
The reader did an excellent job and the story calmly bubbled on.
I wouldn't have listed it as a mystery (only found out later that the author was nicknamed America's Agatha Christie).
I enjoyed it however as a nice novel with interesting twists and turns.
I think the author did a great job painting the different characters.
Whether the amnesia bit was medically realistic I can't tell - either way, it was an original plot, with interesting characters, giving an interesting glimpse into American life in the 1920's.
It's very old school, to the point that I could see the 1920s MGM movie version of it playing in my head.
A lot of it is fun, but it's dated in bad ways, namely: Dick and Elizabeth.
Good lord, Dick is insufferable and Elizabeth is a walking "look at your life, look at your choices" lesson.
I skimmed the last bit of the book since I knew it would be all about Their Great Love.
That said, it's an interesting mystery and all of the secondary characters are great.
This book captured me and I couldn't do anything else until I'd finished it. I didn't give it more stars, only because it didn't have what I'd call redeeming value, like historical information or deep philosophical inquiry. It is simply an excellently written mystery. Great characterization and settings (it is set and was written in the 1920's), but mostly well drawn plot.And now I'm in trouble, because I just learned she wrote a lot of mysteries, and has been called the American Agatha Christie, though she preceded Christie. I know I'll be captured again.
This book may come across as somewhat melodramatic for today's readers, but it had me anxious to learn the outcome. The characterization was very good, and the plot held many twists and surprises. I cared about the characters. Rinehart did a very good job not making the villains totally one-sided and evil. Everyone had flaws, but they were within human bounds. Excellent reading. Satisfying ending. (As an aside, searching for this book on Goodreads, I never before realized how many books have been titled  Breaking Point .)
Like a long quiet volcano erupting.It's been a long time since I've read a full length novel. I thought this might be too long at first, but what a plot. Much like a volcano, this story has a bubbling undercurrent. A small town doctor who is missing ten years of his life is triggered emotionally by love, causing his missing years to bubble up and overtake his current life. Much like lava after an eruption, his triggered memories will forever change the topography of his life
The Spiral Staircase: Mary Rhinehart, Knowing the year this book was written, I can certainly overlook certain descriptions,comments. Times change and so do people. We also tend to write “what we know”. With that being said, I will focus on the writing and storyline. I personally find the story to drone on and on. I did not find it exciting, intriguing or even mysterious. The writer did not manage to pull me into the story. I had difficulty choking it down. It is slow and dribbles.
Rinehart's fictional account of a case of "repressed memory" in which Dick Livingstone who for a decade was unperturbed by certain aspects of his past suddenly begins experiencing 'flashbacks' of this past... Who is he? Though the mysterious elements here were quite different from other Rinehart novels I've read I must say that element of intrigue was still most present and kept me at the edge of my seat throughout!
This is more a novel of suspense than a murder mystery. The main character is a young doctor who has a blank spot in his memory due to amnesia. Just as he is getting romantically involved with a girl his past comes back to haunt him. Unlike some of her other novels, this one has a fair amount of melodrama.
PG for language.  The story was overly dramatic. The mystery was terribly predictable. Two lovers, one with amnesia and a mysterious past. A dramatic return of memory and a desperate struggle for forgiveness. Like said it was annoyingly over dramatic. The best characters were some of the supporting characters.  I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.
Listened to this via Librivox and really liked it. It's the story of a man who remembers only the last ten years of his life so he goes on a journey to discover his past - for good or for ill. We not only follow his journey in the present, as well as into the past, but follow the lives of those he's loved. It's really a good tale.
Published in 1922, some of the writing on relationships and marriage were so forward thinking, I most thought it was written by a modern day writer but set in 1922. Long winded at times, but such was the era it was written in. The story did capture my attention and I started and completed it in one day. Murder mystery romance, intriguing characters, great classical read.
A small mystery, a dash of romance, and a large dose of WWI-1920's era melodrama; it unfolds very slowly as the case is looked at bit by bit from every angle. But Rinehart manages to keep it interesting.
Having enjoyed several of Rinehart's mysteries, I searched for them on Gutenberg Free EBooks. Instead I found some non-mystery books she wrote at some point in her career. I found most of them, like this one, very enjoyable light reads.
I came across this book on Librivox and the description sounded really interesting. The novel is a mystery and I thought the author did a great job of revealing bits and pieces and every time I thought I had figured something out, something else unexpected would happen and completely throw me off.
I loved this story about a man who has amnesia for 10 years and the woman he wants to marry. The characters are interesting, and one of the characters that I thought would turn out to be this man's nemesis, becomes his friend and ally instead. Awesome. Read most of the book in one weekend.
This is my current favorite book. If you want a book that's very emotional, tons of plot twists, romantic, sorta suspenseful, and a lot of character development this is the best book ever. READ I adore it beyond words.
Rather more melodrama than mystery, but still rather engrossing and compelling.
Excellent; a really absorbing mystery.
Too little story
