https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383201.Dancers_in_Mourning
I think, in order to love and adore Albert Campion as I do, you have to read the following Margery Allingham books in the following order:--"The Crime at Black Dudley," her first novel, where Campion is introduced via what I feel to be a highly creative technique; the story is told from the perspective of another character who intitially thinks that Campion (because his behavior is so nutty and bizarre) is the killer.
This was a very, very good book. It was slow in starting, at least compared to other Campion mysteries, but it got going faster and faster as we read, and has a twist right at the end, there has to be a twist at the end, right? What would a mystery be without it.
Albert Campion is called upon to investigate a number of hoaxes being carried out against Jimmy Sutane, a star dancer who is appearing in a successful musical based on the memoirs of “Uncle William” Faraday whom we first encountered in Police at the Funeral.
Dancers in Mourning Ipso Books.
Allingham adds immeasurably to our understanding of him as a human being while questioning the whole ethos of Golden Age crime writing.“Hitherto he had been an observer only in the many dramas which he had investigated and that circumstance had given him an unfounded sense of superiority.
Fantastic characters. Gripping tale. And last, but by no means least, The Great Magersfontein Lugg befriending a lonely little girl and teaching her to pick locks, to Mr. Campion's great annoyance. She has the time of her life!
This was an interesting story but it felt like it was trying too hard. Some places were overloaded with flowery prose and too much angst. I was able to guess who the murderer was early on in the story. Having said that, I do like Albert Campion, and will certainly read other stories in the series.
***.It’s been years since I read a mystery by Ms. Allingham, but it was easy to slip back into the habit.
Although Campion is the obvious star of the plot, he really doesn’t do a lot.
The story revolves around a series of less than funny gags that were being played on the successful writer of a new musical review.
Campion moves in with the writer and his family and follows the action for several days, when the first killing occurs.
In her day, Ms. Allingham was one of the mystery writers of choice, and is still widely read today.
Campion is happy to try to sort things out--not only for Sutane, but for "Uncle" William Faraday, author of the book upon which the musical is based.
He finds himself caught in any number of ethical dilemmas and committing all sorts of sleuthing "sins"from suppressing evidence and misleading the doctor called in on the first "accident" to delaying the finale as long as possible.
I saw the other possibility well before Albert Campion-- a rare thing--and an added delight.I make it sound--oh, I don't know--kind of soppy with "delightful" and "endearing." It isn't that at all.
To cut a long and complex story very short indeed, a quiet visit by Campion to the country house to investigate some petty attacks against Sutane is interrupted by the sudden death (possibly suicide) of Chloe Pye. A little later, Konrad is killed in an explosion; the light on his new bicycle turns out to have been rigged.
The twist was a genuine surprise to me: it turns out that it was Mercer, not Sutane, who a) was married to Chloe Pye in the distant past and b) committed the murders.
Unfortunately, Allingham isn't really a good enough writer to pull out the discord and disharmony between the actors in the profression.
There just seems to be too many characters who are not differentiated enough to make them memorable - for an example, I still wasn't sure by the end of the book who Socks was!On another note, there is a hint of romance between Campion and Sutane which isn't really realistic as they seem to simply love each other just because - not for any character of their personality.
Finally, the murder - which is a side aspect of the novel - doesn't really make sense.
Why would the killer - who is portrayed as being uninterested in others' lives throughout the novel, get married to start off the sequence of events?
From book 2, Campion has been working around the edges of romance, but being continually disappointed. This is a slightly different disappointed romance because it both is impossible (due to the lady being married), and confuses Campion enough that he loses perspective rather.
I was terribly bothered when one of the characters confessed at the end that he knew all along who the murderer was but he allowed him to kill 4 or 5 more people because his honor demanded he not peach on his friend!
Moves a little slow, but Allingham nicely shows all kinds of re-direction. Even Campion has the "wrong" suspect until the last two pages. Campion has emotions and Lugg is surprisingly nice.
Slow in starting, but it picks up speed and has a twist right at the end. Still, Allingham is no Dorothy L. Sayers or Josephine Tey.
But before he can do that, one of the characters dies suddenly, and Campion now feels he must remain.We are so accustomed to Campion meeting bizarre circumstances with aplomb; it’s a bit unnerving for us (and him) to view his loss of sang-froid.
Also, he realizes that the central characters simply do not realize the seriousness of the situation they find themselves in--until it escalates in unmistakably sinister ways.Allingham weaves a baroque spell in this story, and the unsettling atmosphere is encapsulated in the words she has left us.
gorgeous writing, atmosphere, plot, and great fun.
It's not openly stated, so you can ignore it, it'll go over the heads of the younger crowd, and it's easy to ignore if you're not gay, but the gay character Konrad isn't just pretty and superficial but comes in for universal nasty prejudice (and is a nasty person in some ways).
Allingham is such great fun and her writing in this one is beautiful, absolutely beautiful throughout, especially the scenes and characters are so amazing, it's a shame to pass on such a good book (i never give whodunnits 4, never) because of this, and it's not a fraction of the book, but it would ruin it for those affected by or sensitive to it.
A majority of the book concerns unpleasant characters (even the ones the author seems to think are "good"), Lugg & Campion, excepted of course, which makes it rather hard going.
Several repeated phrases stick in the eye; I thought it was parody at first, but after two pages of every sentence ending in "don't you know", it gets trying.(view spoiler)[The last chapter is somewhat unexpectedly poignant and tragic and greatly improves the book...a little more of that and this would be a three-star book for me.
(hide spoiler)]Overall, Ngaio Marsh's Vintage Murder published in the same year is remarkably similar but superior in every way.
Allingham's detective Albert Campion is confusing in personality here, varying from effete socialite a la Wimsey to sharp analyst a la Sherlock Holmes.
But the plot is fascinating, set among the characters in a musical comedy plus the author of the book on which the play was based, it slips in a lot of sidelights on theatre operation in England as the plot unfolds.
The death of an annoying character is an early event and Allingham is fair with clues but springs a big surprise at the end.
However when I checked back, she did drop clues earlier that I didn't follow up to the maximum.
Classic British at it's best.
This is one of my favorites, while being somewhat different from the usual.
Campion is confused by feelings for one of the people involved, leaving him less effective but just as good a reporter.
Lugg (always a delight) is called to fill in as a butler; a challenge which leaves him time to teach the child of the house lock-picking & Three Card Monte.
A wide selection of police, each delivering a portion of the puzzle.
Allingham's use of language remains elegant and on point.
If you haven't read Campion, this is a good place to start.
This rating should be on the high end of four stars, near five. The first couple of chapters seem slow, the characters a bit dull. From there the pace picks up nicely. The characters become some of Allingham's best. Campion is the most human of detectives and I love him for it. The twist in the ending was not completely unexpected but the suspense building up to it is well done. This is one of the best of the series I've read so far.
This was somewhat different in that along with the mystery, the main character's issues were addressed. Refreshing to go back to a time when people had a moral conscience.
Classic who dunnit - of a time and place - that keeps you guessing until the last page.
Good plot, albeit with a slow start.The characters are well drawn and convincing (I think), without being too boring either.
A fine whodunnit. Very well written and a good mystery. Allingham and Dorothy Sayers may be my favorite mystery writers.
Rating 3.80 for this vintage mystery.
Wordy, but I still couldn’t put it down. And the ending!!!?
As good as it gets.
First published in 1937, still the best.
Synopsis: when a song-and-dance star is victim to malicious practical jokes, only Campion can get to the bottom of it. Then a starlet is killed.
good. i liked the periodness of it as well as the mystery
One of the best Campion stories. Great descriptions of interpersonal relationships. Great atmosphere.
