https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6149.Beloved
Maybe it's the Toni-with-an-i thing; it's definitely the Oprah connection and the fact that she's a lady author, but whatever the reasons, I feel like people who haven't read her believe that Morrison writes these lovely, lyrical, ladylike books that will soften the heart and elevate the soul....
Of course, the most horrific parts of the book aren't invented; Morrison clearly spent a lot of time researching the historical record of slavery and thinking about its effects and meaning, and her ability to wrest a novel like this out of that past is just incomprehensible....
"BelovedYou are my sisterYou are my daughterYou are my face; you are meI have found you again; you have come back to meYou are my belovedYou are mineYou are mine" It's 6 o'clock in the morning and I have finished with one of the best books I have ever read in the course of my short life. I am sleepless and I need a moment to organize my thoughts, sort out my feelings. Come back to real life. But I can't.A part of me is still with Sethe and her daughters, Denver and Beloved at 124. A part of me
Beloved reveals festering psychological wounds, deep emotional scars that could never ever heal.Beloved is profoundly lyrical and empathetic in its depiction of grotesque events that unfolded during the most ignominious part of America's history.Beloved wrenches your heart out, shreds it into a million tiny pieces but then stitches all the pieces together and hands your heart back to you - all bloodied and messed up.Maybe a few years down the line when I read Beloved again, I will write a more coherent review and sound less emotional.
But I will try.And I will read this book again when I feel like my life is difficult or I can't go on anymore.
I'm sure Sethe and Beloved will be there to hold my hands and lead me forward.I cannot write anymore.
I am an aspiring author, myself, and that also leads me to be kind to the books.That being said, I really hated this book.I like fantasy and magical realism.
I like my stories intense and emotional, and I like it when characters are so full of passion that it obscures their sense of the world around them.That being said, I really hated this book.I found Beloved incomprehensible to the point of absurdity.
It's one thing to have a book that is full of magic and poetry or to have a character's passion overwhelm their ability to describe the world from time to time, but I also need to know what is going on.
Paul D’s presence makes the ghost leave, and he alienates the shy, awkward Denver and begins to make Sethe unshackle herself from the past… until a mysterious stranger – with no lines on her hands or face – appears at 124 to mess things up.Beloved overflows with stories: some tragic, some vicious, some joyous, some brimming with love.It takes a while to get all the names straight; I found myself flipping back to see when a character was introduced.
These are balanced out with scenes of kindness and generosity.Not all the white characters are bad; one feisty young poor white girl helps Sethe deliver her child in a boat, and there’s a subtle portrait of a pair of generous, older white siblings who radiate humanity.
Beloved is a novel about haunting; it is a novel about the human inability to move on from the past and how easily it can resurface. We may try to move on, but it never really leaves us. And when the past is painful and full of blood it echoes for an eternity.  “You know as well as I do that people who die bad don’t stay in the ground.” Enter Beloved, daughter of Sethe, a girl killed by her mother many years previous to escape the shackles of slavery. Was it murder? Was it mercy? Was it both? I
Beloved is a novel about haunting; it is a novel about the human inability to move on from the past and how easily it can resurface.
Enter Beloved, daughter of Sethe, a girl killed by her mother many years previous to escape the shackles of slavery.
Although Beloved is the physical manifestation that is haunting her mother, the reality is somewhat different.
It is her past; it is the injustice she faced and a decision she was forced to make that will never leave her.
Thus, men like Paul D are forced to wonder with no real sense of belonging.
Sometimes I read to escape my reality, only to find myself in a universe endlessly more complicated, more painful, more difficult to understand and follow.
Sometimes basic statements like "I could never understand why a mother would kill her child" seem to dissolve, leaving a confused feeling of not knowing exactly anymore what is right and what is wrong, given specific cruel circumstances.Sometimes novels shake me and leave me scarred, endlessly sad and grateful at the same time.Beloved Toni Morrison.
If you want to know what slavery does to people, read Beloved.It will not leave you unaffected.
It has been a while since I last was online (according to this computer's calculations: thirteen days ago) & since then I have finished the monumentally loved "Beloved."The only way I can describe this sure classic is: "it's a mix between the most brilliant of Hawthorne (his Scarlet Letter bears plenty of similarities to Beloved since it too deals with a time of intense persecution in this country; the roles women played at such historical crossroads; the ghosts of the burdensome past making cameos in the present; haunted house motifs galore...
But it definitely embodies all the things that make me hate books.
Its also just a giant pastiche of people who can actually write, which makes it just feel disjointed and annoying since it switches between standard narration and stream of conciousness and surrealism in intensely awkward ways.
It's not even like that switching between different narrative structures is inherently bad, but this book definitely does it in the most ridiculously annoying way of any book I have ever read.
It's just artsy-fartsy nonsense for people who want to feel like they're reading real literature when they're not.

It seems to be a good book to read in the light of the recent discussion on the Roots reboot, as well as the recent New York Times article which discusses how African-American DNA bears signs of slavery.
And it would hurt her to know that there was no red heart bright as Mister's comb beating in him."And Sethe:"Would it be all right?
Go ahead and count on something?" This time around I tried to focus more on the characters I didn't dwell on much in my first read, so Denver, Sethe's daughter, received more of my attention.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ I FINISHED!!!!!! I realize this is a classic and a Pulitzer Prize winner and yada yada yada, but oh my goodness am I glad to be done. Dear Oprah, what’s going to happen to me since I hated it???? That’s what I was afraid of. Going in to this book I knew nothing about it except for the fact that it was on the Banned Books List and that Oprah said I should read it . . .  I did manage to finish, but WHAT. A. SLOG. There are only about 47
Going in to this book I knew nothing about it except for the fact that it was on the Banned Books List and that Oprah said I should read it .
I will say that Beloved is the only book I can remember reading where I was in love with the story but hated the way it was told.
(Sidenote: Beloved is realllllly strangely fitting if you’re someone still looking for a ghost story to add to your October reading list.) I think Toni Morrison’s writing style is one that you’re either going to love or hate.
Plus, I'm predisposed to dislike the so-called "ebonics" on display here in Beloved, an aspect of this book that continues to be controversial; that is, Morrison wrote all the dialogue here as actual barely-educated former slaves in the 1870s would've actually talked, making it difficult to follow along and requiring close attention while reading, a decision that some "Western Classics" style professors have accused of being damaging to the arts in the long term, and another bad legacy of the politically-correct years.But then again, let's plainly admit that I have absolutely loved reading all these old Victorian novels that I have through the CCLaP 100 this year as well, of looking back on the nerdy little overdressed white people who were my very ancestors and seeing how they talked, behaved, what they found important, what they fretted about when the doors were closed, feeling that connection between them and myself, feeling that except for the wardrobe and funky flowery language we were actually quite alike.
When Paul D is in need the community of free blacks is more than willing to help.The story is based on a real case, on in which Margaret Garner (remembered in this book as the family name given to the less horrendous slave owners) in 1856 killed her children for the same reason.Most men in this book are oppressors, but a few rise above.
More than just a great ghost story or an outstanding tale of slavery, Morrison has written a classic of 20th century American literature.
In the beginning there were no words. In the beginning was the sound, and they all knew what that sound sounded like. I could leave it like that.I should, really, I should. Leave it, in her words, in her meaning, in her context and effort and heritage and everything that is not mine. Never will be mine, these things that should rightfully flay me alive every time I happen to dwell upon them, whether in flight of fanciful musings or serious consideration as they so rightfully deserve. The only t
Listen to the voice long enough, and you will begin to see the hazy and bloodcurdled outlines of the question, the content, the situational chaos bounded by need on one side and means on the other, and the world that will never be able to afford to stop picking up the pieces.
Yonder they do not love your flesh.
They don’t love your eyes; they’d just as soon pick them out.
And O my people they do not love your hands.
Flesh that needs to be loved.
And O my people, out yonder, hear me, they do not love your neck unnoosed and straight.
While much of their pain stems from the horrors of slavery, it is also comes from their relationship with Sethe.
the sadness was at her center, the desolated center where the self that was no self made its home. Sad as it was that she did not know where her children were buried or what they looked like if alive, fact was she knew more about them than she knew about herself, having never had the map to discover what she was like.  I’m accustomed to hear different stories. I’m accustomed to live around different lives. I’m more used to beauty than ugliness. I’m more used to songs than silence. I’m more used
Sad as it was that she did not know where her children were buried or what they looked like if alive, fact was she knew more about them than she knew about herself, having never had the map to discover what she was like.
I’m accustomed to hear different stories.
I’m more used to living my life on my own terms.
Her story deserves to be passed on.With Love.Beloved....being so in love with the look of the world, putting up with anything and everything, just to stay alive in a place where a moon he had no right to was nevertheless there.
This is the worst book that I have ever read.
It epitomizes what elite academics love about literature: It is dark and nasty (which, to an academic, means realistic) and it is obscure and incoherent (to an academic, this means deep and profound).
I disliked everything about this book - its leftist message, disgusting characters and grotesque writing style (a conglomeration of broken grammar rules, disorganized structure and ungainly narrative).
"Beloved" is quintessential of the literature embraced by academics and which I think is morbid, uninspiring and worthless.
“Darkness is stronger and swallows them like minnows.”  - Toni Morrison, Beloved“Beloved” is a beautiful, haunting story that is set around the time following the slavery emancipation declaration.
It’s very poetic and lyrical, full of metaphors and powerful imagery.The book tells the story of Sethe, a runaway slave who has left her home in the South but is still living in the past.
Toni Morrison stands in a class of her own.This book was beautiful yet tragic; a true masterpiece.
I heard that Toni Morrison was a good writer so when we had to pick a book from this long list I decided to read it.
I know the book is supposed to give you a view on the cruel treatment of slaves but after I finished I actually less sympathetic for them.
I like a decent metaphor as much as the next person but that is not what I think makes a good book.
You know how your supposed to feel all deep and intelligent after you read classic book.
embracing death as a gate to freedom!...She showed no signs of insanity nor repentance.Those hedious acts seemed the right thing to do in that particular, cruel, reality picture!This real life event has been the seed to Beloved and it's probably the only truth about this story.That, and ...
a house to live -- 124  was fiercely haunted by  the missing 3, who was entitled to an afterlife revenge!124 was reminding the murderess (if I may say so?!) mother that she once had 4 kids instead of 3!When I think about this infanticide, all I can say is ...
The ghosts of Sethe's past are manifest in the novel, given first an invisible, malefic presence in the house she lives in, and later given flesh and breath in the form of a mysterious young woman who calls herself 'Beloved'.The structure of the novel is non-linear, with the revelations about Sethe, about her children and the men in her life presented gradually, in painful flashbacks, reflecting the tortured mind that shies away and denies the painful memories, approaching them obliquely and fearfully, lest they shred her sanity once more.
in all of Baby's life, as well as Sethe's own, men and women were moved around like checkers.
Their argument, as far as I can gather, is that slavery was, y’know, a long time ago and we’re now entirely inclusive and lovely towards all people and so writing about slavery is tantamount to trying to make us [by which I mean white people] feel guilty for something that 1.
Flesh that needs to be loved."I mean….dear God. And the thing is, I totally agree with the sentiment of almost everything in the above passage; it’s the presentation of that sentiment that bothers me.Every sentence in Beloved aches [or creaks] with emotion, with meaning and significance; and, for me, the impact of the story, and the full horror of the subject that Morrison was dealing with, was compromised by that.
Although they are interesting, and at times painfully real, it is the poetical manner in which Morrison renders their views and thoughts that leaves the reader breathless.
That struggle is a real one, and although I hope no one reading this has a past issue on par with human bondage, we can still relate to the idea of living in a present that does not want to leave something in the past back there.The novel's hopeful ending nicely ties up the horror that preceded it, and gives the reader of sense of the future belonging to those who wish to embrace it.The strength of "Beloved" is its amazing use of figurative language.
confusing, boring, and pretentious, this is the book that convinced me that the pulitzer doesn't mean shit.
Beloved: Toni Morrison's Novel of the Cost of Freedom First Edition, Beloved, Alfred Knopf, New York, New York, September, 1987, Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, 1988The task of the Underground Railway has been made more difficult. It is 1850. As a part of the Compromise of 1850, our Nation, in yet another effort to stall a War Between the States, has passed the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850. A Federal Officer is subject to a fine of $1,000.00 if he fails to aid a slave owner in returning
Those, such as members of the Underground Railway, are subject to a term of imprisonment of up to six months and a fine of $1,000.00 for rendering aid to an alleged runaway slave.Beloved is Toni Morrison's novel based on the Margaret Garner case.
Morrison made it tougher in "Beloved."Sethe is Margaret Garner's fictional counterpart.
Eighteen years after murdering her child, Paul D, one of the men who had worked as a slave on the Kentucky farm, has entered Sethe's life as lover and potential husband.
“Freeing yourself was one thing, claiming ownership of that freed self was another.”   Toni Morrison’s  Beloved is a melancholic but beautifully written story about Sethe, a slave woman who having escaped slavery will never be free. She is daunted not only by her memories, but also by the ghost of her baby daughter that died nameless. On her grave there is just a word: Beloved. Her suffering is poignant and heartbreaking.  “Sad as it was that she did not know where her children were buried or w
Toni Morrison’s  Beloved is a melancholic but beautifully written story about Sethe, a slave woman who having escaped slavery will never be free.
“There is a loneliness that can be rocked.
A dry and spreading thing that makes the sound of one's own feet going seem to come from a far-off place.” 
I can say honestly that I cherished Beloved like certainly it deserved, however I was depressingly impacted, and it left me with a very sorrowful taste.
As Morrison doubtless felt and foresaw in her readers when writing Beloved.
If you have not read Beloved, I urge you to do it!
Denver, Sethe’s other daughter, who once welcomed Beloved in the house for she too needed some form of emotional recognition in society, manages to come out of her sister’s spell and seeks help.
Between 3.5-4 stars.“Freeing yourself was one thing, claiming ownership of that freed self was another.”This book explores, primarily, the character of Sethe and her violent past and horrifying trauma of her previously enslaved life in Sweet Home, Kentucky.
This book also explores the life of Sethe's other daughter, Denver.
Denver is alive but lives a life of isolation and loneliness in the house with her mother, hardly ever venturing outside the walls of house 124.
With her extreme loneliness, Denver is the one character who first tries to seek, love and embrace the spirit of Beloved.
Morrison based the novel on the story of Margaret Garner, an escaped slave who killed her child as she was being recaptured, to save the child a lifetime of slavery.
Anything could stir him and he tried hard not to love it.”But it is a horror story (and I don’t mean the ghost), horror in the true sense of the word, slavery.
There are reviews saying this is the worst book ever, expressing hatred and loathing for the novel.
Hatred and loathing; worst book ever!
It seems that slavery has now to be a topic studied in history; making it too real and present creates strong reactions.
Restam então Sethe e Denver, dado que Howard e Buglar já se puseram a milhas!Beloved está a vingar-se duma morte prematura -- a vida fora-lhe roubada antes dos 2 anos, pela própria mãe.Sethe nascera escrava, mas almejara morrer livre e arriscara uma fuga que não fora bem sucedida.
Assim, pouco antes de ser recapturada, cortou a garganta da sua Beloved, tencionando proceder da mesma forma com os restantes filhos, e em seguida suicidar-se, abraçando a morte como única via de libertação.
