https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40717929-an-excellent-mystery
It's fitting that the middle book of the Cadfael series is the most unique.
The "excellent mystery" part doesn't kick in until a third to halfway through the book and isn't fully explained until the end.
It wasn't until a scene late in the book of Nicholas single-mindedly seeking Hugh in the pouring rain that I realized he was displaying just as much passion as poor Brother Urien, just about very different things.
The final act of the book is very moving and also brilliantly constructed, bringing each character's tangled thread to a conclusion.

An Excellent Mystery, a phrase taken from the Solemnization of Matrimony from the Book of Common Prayer, is a great name for this episode in the Cadfael saga though there are no actual weddings here to solemnize.Instead this story deals with a man who becomes betroathed to a much younger girl before departing on crusade.
A mystery develops when it's discovered tha the man's fiance never made it to her intended abbey.
Again, as with so much of Ellis Peters' Cadfael saga, the mystery is secondary to the picture we develop of life in that time.
There are problems involving point-of-view, with information being revealed to reader that the main characters could not possibly know--an unwelcome change from earlier books--and Cadfael appears very little and does very little.
The thing that almost made me put An Excellent Mystery down--and it is the first Cadfael book I have even come close to putting down--was Brother Urian, who's subplot was disturbingly full of sexual harassment and homosexuality and added almost nothing to the plot except lots of long, awkward and repetitive monologs.
Since the Cadfael books do not have to be read in order, I would suggest that all but die-hard fans skip this disappointing entry in the series.
Brother Cadfael is re-assuring; a well-weathered monk with knowledge of the world, of battles and romantic love, a gentle man, whose knowledge of medicinal herbs and ailments makes him even more respectable.
The Abbot, Brother Radulphus: a very capable leader of the monastic order, and a man without obvious faults: unwavering in his convictions, protector of the weak, a friend to Brother Cadfael, and keenly aware of the need for political shrewdness at a time of civil war (as that time was for England).And this is what I dislike about the series, the near-perfection of the main characters, the lack of any obvious faults or strife to weigh them down.
A pair of monks, refugees from the destruction of their abbey in the fighting and destruction at Winchester, arrive at Shrewsbury, one obviously dying, the other, his devoted companion, mute.
Ellis Peters actually lived in Shrewsbury, England, where Cadfael's monastery of St. Peter and Paul can still be visited.
You really do feel as though you are in that long-lost world lit only by fire, where it's quiet and green and life moves at a pace most people can be happy in.Cadfael is a suitably complex man.
He's lived a full life, now he wants to be quiet.
All the elements familiar to Peters’ readers--death, mystery, and sleuthing set amid a historic civil war, medieval culture, Welsh borderlands, and young love; but Peters mixes the ingredients a little differently this time.
As he fades, those around him seek to ease his earthly and emotional burdens, including the disappearance of his espoused bride three years previous.“His spirit outgrows his body … there is no room for it in this fragile parcel of bones.”Murder mysteries all involve death.
And most important by whom?“Happiness … consists in small things, not in great.”The Cadfael mysteries are set at the Benedictine monetary in Shrewsbury, England, during the twelfth century civil war called the Anarchy.

Za razliku od većine romana o bratu Kadfaelu, u ovom zapravo ne postoji nikakav zločin a naslovnu misteriju pogodiće na trećoj strani svako ko zna o čemu se radi u Betovenovom "Fideliju" ili je eventualno gledao "Mulan". Pa ipak je ovo simpatična, spora, lagana knjižica za jedno popodne i načinje pomalo ozbiljnije psihološke domete od prosečnog romana o Kadfaelu.
i am always impressed with Peters' ability to tangle language so it sounds medieval, and i had never thought of how the Normans may have irritated the Saxons just by being there in the decades following 1066, but overall this was a bit of a disappointment. i had solved the mystery half way through which made the rest sort of unexciting. The series is great - this book, only ok.
Not cool.So what I'm going to do, for the rest of my review, is pretend that the central plot and mystery of this novel did not in fact happen and deal with Brother Fidelis as he presents himself throughout the entire story, all a beautiful mute boy.
"Now only give us the empress herself prisoner, and we shall have stalemate, and begin this whole struggle over again." There is some great tension and good lines about the fortitude of humanity concerning this development in the civil war, but I'm not going to talk about that, because there is an even more profound set of concepts being explored in the human aspects of the story.
If your idea of an "excellent mystery" is one where the actual enigma isn't even presented until halfway through the book, then this is for you.If an "excellent mystery" is one in which about a third of the cast seem to know all about it, and spend a lot of the second half of the book giving each other meaningful glances and saying, "Since you know what you know, what will you do?" you'll enjoy it.
(view spoiler)[ I've always wondered how these women who passed as men in those days managed to hide their periods, particularly in an all-male environments, but that's just me.
(hide spoiler)]
It is a fascinating blend of brutal war (destroying villages and monasteries) and quiet life among the monks and their devotions.
As a former soldier in the Crusades, Cadfael brings a worldly perspective to his monastic life and that is what adds zest to the novels.He is not a pious man judging others---he is a worldly man, who has loved (and still appreciates women) who has chosen to step into a life of service.
His blend of quiet duty and continuing curiosity about life "outside the walls" is what adds zest and interest to the stories.
In the past, I have recommended Ellis Peter’s mysteries unreservedly.
That character’s victory over it is an important part of the story, but the struggles he has throughout the book made for some very uncomfortable reading.
(view spoiler)[ The fact that a woman lived for three years in a monastery is weird enough, but that she is almost constant contact with one of the men and he couldn’t figure it out was very strange indeed.
But they weren’t and nor were they viewed as such.
Ellis made it clear that they weren’t scandalous, but it was still very uncomfortable.
indeed it was, with a nice twist at the end.
The eleventh of the Cadfael series book.
A not so difficult mystery (I figured out the solution of the mystery by page 80), but nevertheless not a boring books, as it is still interesting to see how the secret will be revealed.
This means that even if I knew what they will find out, I was still following the story, so as to see how the young hero will discover the truth and how God or luck (or Ellis Peters) will bring the reveleation so as for the people around the secret would not be harmed.
One is tall and gaunt, in his late forties, but emaciated and clearly not in the best of health, and the other is tall, not more than twenty, but mute, and attends faithfully upon the elder monk.It is soon discovered that the tall monk, Brother Humilis, had been Godfrid Marescot, who had gone to the Crusades some sixteen years before; when he returned some three years back, with a wound that he knew would be his death (and that also rendered him incapable of fathering children), he arranged to join the priory of Hyde Mead as a monk to live out the rest of his days.
The main mystery, however, is the disappearance three years ago of the young noble girl once affianced to the elder of the abbey's newest residents, which has only now come to light...
This one differs from the rest of the books in the Cadfael series in that there is no murder to solve as well as a refreshing absence of the usual tale of star-crossed lovers Brother Cadfael must help bring together which admittedly has been getting a bit boring and repetitive for me.
The absence of those two elements was a nice change, making this a very enjoyable entry in the series despite the fact that I figured out the mystery pretty much immediately.
Edith Pargeter is quite clear - she was only ever interested in writing about the good in people.
I think this is what makes her work so endearing and engaging.
This episode in Brother Cadfael's adventures is especially interesting because the author engages with what she herself clearly believed marriage was all about.
It also contains the most 'fortuitous' act of God of all of this series but - Cadfael makes a point of acknowledging that it has conveniently got him (and everyone else) out of a hole.
So I forgave it because the author was not expecting me to swallow it whole as being a likely development.
Despite the cover of my edition, there is no murder in this mystery story and despite this singularly strange lack in a Cadfael story, there is no lack of strange doings for my favorite monk to unravel. I wasn't enamored of the third party, the young man who sets the mystery in motion. He wasn't a well developed enough character to have such a defining part in the tale. In my opinion at least. Still, all my favorite characters where here and Peters writing was wonderful as usual. Maybe not the best of the series but still very good.
This is one of my all-time favorite series of books and probably my favorite from the series so far. The literary quality is so beautiful and rarely matched by modern writers. Ellis Peters, with a beautiful turn of almost every phrase, manages to take the reader to the middle of the 12th Century England, educate us along the way while sharing such gentle insight into the human condition that we want to continually return for a visit. Who wouldn't want to have Brother Cadfael as a friend and confidant?
This was, indeed, an excellent mystery! This series is so delightful and entertaining, it is easy to excuse the perhaps somewhat farfetched plots. The characters are always wonderful, and I particularly enjoy the way history is blended into the story line. I'm continuing to work my way through this complete series....
This is probably my favorite Brother Cadfael book so far. There isn't the same kind of mystery as usual -- there's no body, no murderer to track down as such... Instead, it's an intriguing reflection on love, loyalty, and the strength of human bonds, which can be just as mysterious as any murder.
The Civil war between King Stephen and Empress Maud touches Shrewsbury Abbey. (This is one of the fascinating themes that drew me to this series). Cadfael has to come up with the truth again.As always a good book that just happens to be a good mystery.
A slow boil if there ever was one. I had no idea what the actual mystery was going to be until maybe 60 pages in, and I didn't even remotely suspect the ending. Excellent, indeed!
About 1/4 of the way into this book, I realized I had read it before -- but I went ahead and read it again anyway for the simple delight of this wonderful series.
Just an okay mystery.
Overwhelming news from southern England soon distracts the attention, so I should say that the book begins with Brother Oswin departing to do his stint at St Giles.
It's not clear that he would do that well at St Giles, but since Brother Mark has already reached the rank of deacon at Lichfield, the odds are pretty good he's not coming back, at least to stay.
Brother Urien, introduced in this book, has joined the monastery for an all-too-common reason: bitterly disappointed in love, he hopes for peace in an environment where he's forbidden any expression of sexuality.
In this, the eleventh of the chronicles, Brother Cadfael has two mysteries on his hands.
Who are the two mysterious monks, one dying, one a mute, who have turned up at Shrewsbury Abbey.
As usual, the resourceful monk is assisted in his inquiries by the steadfast sheriff, Hugh Beringer, as he untangles both the mysteries.I buy the Brother Cadfael books when they are on sale for $1.99 because I don't think they are worth much more than this.
There is the usual lovesick couple he helps to put together, and the hours spent sipping from his private stock of wine in his workshop.
It lacked some of the elements of the generally formulaic plot, while still maintaining much of what draws me to the series- the interweaving of 12th century history, the expression of the quality of mercy, and a main character who is comforting in his goodness, but still complex enough to be interesting.What little outer mystery there was in the book became rather apparent very early on, and yet I still enjoyed the tale for the sake of its telling.
I enjoyed it, but it isn't one of my all time favorites of the series.
