https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35503.Without_Feathers
Book of notes, Without Feathers allowed me, as a fan of the comedian, who became one of the greatest filmmakers ever, to know some of his notes. Some would come to give rise to some of his cinematographic works that we have all had the opportunity to see by the time they have become timeless. Others are mere drafts, notes with biting humor, ironic and rich as Woody Allen always gifted us.
Το Χωρις φτερά αποτελείται απο μια σειρά μικρών διηγημάτων και 2 θεατρικών. Τα διηγήματα ηταν κατα την γνώμη μου μετριότατα με καποιες εκλάμψεις χιούμορ. Τα θεατρικά ηταν εξαιρετικά! Σίγουρα θα ξαναδιαβάζα κάτι από τον Γουντυ Άλλεν γιατί ακόμα δεν έχω καταλήξει πόσο μου αρέσει στο ρόλο του συγγραφέα..
If you haven't already read  The Whore of Mensa , then do so now! Here's a trailer:"Hi, I'm Sherry." They really knew how to appeal to your fantasies. Long, straight hair, leather bag, silver earrings, no make-up."I'm surprised you weren't stopped, walking into the hotel dressed like that," I said. "The house dick can usually spot an intellectual.""A five-spot cools him.""Shall we begin?" I said, motioning her to the couch. She lit a cigarette and got right to it. "I think we could start by appr

یه اثر خیلی متوسط از وودی آلن.. اصلا شبیه به کارهای جالبش نبود.. شاید خیلی سرسری نوشته شده بود..
"I ran into my brother today at a funeral.
We had not seen one another for fifteen years, but as usual he produced a pig bladder from his pocket and began hitting me on the head with it.
Time has helped me understand him better.
Let's face it: he was always much brighter than me--wittier, more cultured, better educated.
His mixture of intellect, seemingly random tangents, and borderline psychopathic ravings kept this book glued in my hands from start to finish.
He fills each page with a seemingly vast knowledge of these unheard of topics, giving the illusion of validity.
Some pieces rightly deserve to be called comedic genius ( The Whore of Mensa, Death - A Play, If the Impressionists Had Been Dentists, A Brief Yet Helpful Guide to Civil Disobedience), but unfortunately I didn't care as much for the others.
Hence the term "demonstration." If a person demonstrates privately in his own home, this is not technically a demonstration but merely "acting silly" or "behaving like an ass."A fine example of a demonstration was the Boston Tea Party, where outraged Americans disguised as Indians dumped British tea into the harbour.
Later, Indians disguised as outraged Americans dumped actual British into the harbor.
A todas luces pasa a ser uno de mis favoritos, sólo por "alienarme" aún más al hacerme reír a carcajadas en plena sala de espera del aeropuerto, en el avión, y cuartos lúgubre s de hospital, provocando que más de alguno se molestase, me alegró días por demás tristes, e impregnó en mi con declarada simpleza ideas de colosal envergadura tales como; el por qué de los principales psiquiatras judíos y el porque de la muy necesaria y buena dicción de Dios.
Loved the title! (a take on "hope is the thing with feathers" from Emily Dickinson). Disliked pretty much the rest of the book. I disliked it for apparently the same reasons that someone else liked it... the book is self-indulgent and weird.
For example, in "But Soft....Real Soft," Woody Allen takes on the age-old intellectual argument over the authorship of Shakespeare's plays.
The crazy thing is that he makes both kinds of tone work well together.The centerpieces of this book are 2 plays.
But the pacing of the humor is admirable, and it certainly is refreshing to read plays that, like Pirandello's, break down the conventions of theatre and remake them in new, exciting ways.This book is a appropriate for precocious kids, college students, New Yorkers, intellectuals and anyone who wants to laugh deeply at the folly of human existence.
Was about to toss this book, then realized that shit who knows when a day might come when I'm really down and this could cheer me up. If you have it unread, take it on a vacation sometime and enjoy yourself. (That's what my beach-fun-fiction shelf is for.)
A collection of Allen’s comedic writings.
This is for the most part solid, laugh-out-loud Allen parodies and absurdity.
Allen is at his best when parodying, say, the great Russian writers (“Should I marry W.?
Not if she won’t tell me the other letters in her last name.”) or Ibsen, as in “Lovborg’s Women Considered,” or just being plain absurd, as in the superbly useless “Slang Origins.”Throughout, the neurotic Allen themes resonate – fear of death and intimacy, etc.
But in all, this is prime, vintage Allen, and at his best, he’s note-perfect.

خدایا چه جوری یک ادم انقدر نابغه میشه!
I didn't quite know what everything meant, but I remember sitting in the back of the room at school when I first bought this book and laughing maniacally at each and every page.
A dala tomu jednu hvězdičku, bohužel jsem si v té době asi ještě nepsala review, takže kdo ví, proč jsem to vlastně nesnášela...Každopádně teď jsem se k tomu náhodou dostala znovu a je to fakt super!
Ale působilo to dost funkčně a pobavila jsem se, takže jsem zcela změnila své původní stanovisko a je možné, že jsem to tehdy asi zahodila po pár stranách, jelikož jsem si nepamatovala zhola nic; což se vám obvykle vybaví, jestli jste něco četli nebo ne...
I když minulý rok jsem takhle četla Kunderu a zjistila jsem až po padesáti stranách, že jsem to už vlastně četla.
Woody Allen, genial como es, al parecer también es susceptible de ciclarse y, así como en algunas de sus últimas películas parecería que estamos viendo la misma historia repetida mil veces, pero en otra locación, así sus cuentos, maravillosamente escritos y realmente divertidos, en ocasiones parecen simplemente el mismo texto reescrito.
Por otra parte, es muy inquietante encontrar, una y otra vez, referencias al físico de mujeres (casi siempre jóvenes, prácticamente adolescentes, o clichés sexistas como la azafata sueca o la rubia curvilínea) y a su conquista que, si bien son divertidas, no dejan de echar una sombra en el contexto de la vida privada de Allen.
Kitap Woody Allen'ın en azından benim için yeni ve farklı mizah anlayışıyla bezenmiş notları, öyküleri ve oyunlarından oluşuyor.
Benim için farklı bir mizah anlayışından kastım; saçma(absürt)* anlayışı.
Ancak kitapta ciddi manada beğendiğim 3 bölüm var.
Birinci sırada: "Ölüm" isimli oyun geliyor ki kesinlikle anlamlı, düşündürücü ve güzel bir oyun.
(Hikaye demek uygun olur sanırım) Adı ön yargı oluşturmasın içeriği hoş, gayet güzel, özgün ve farklı bir metin.
Üçüncü sıradaysa "Tanrı" oyunu var.
Bu oyunda oldukça özgün, farklı ve düşündürücü bir oyun.*"Dünyadan o kadar uzakta ki ışık hızıyla seyahat eden bir adamın oraya varması altı milyon yılını alsa da, yeni bir ekspres hat ile yolun iki saat daha kısalacağı söyleniyor.""Quelm'deki ısı sıfırın altında yedi yüz elli derece olduğundan suya girmeye izin verilmiyor..."
I first read this in high school and I've been re-reading this for years--and I must say the humor is still effective.
It doesn't sound dated at all.
Lines that still make me laugh after all these years: "Scholars will recall tht several years ago a shepherd, wandering in the Gulf of Aqaba, stumbled upon a cave containing several large clay jars and also two tickets to the ice show.""Of all the wonders of nature, a tree in summer is perhaps the most remarkable, with the possible exception of a moose singing 'Embraceable You' in spats."
Woody Allen does The Day Today a day days and days before The Day Today. Today remains a day The Day Today and these stories are still funny.
I am a big fan of Woody Allen’s strange brand of humor. This book was right there.
It reminded me of "To Rome with Love", where we get to see different stories, some of them quite good, and some of them quite cheesy.
It got time before I could understand the tone and humor of each story, but once you get into them, most of them are quite enjoyable.
I often wondered how it would be like to be in a New York theater listening to this meta-play that is so keen on philosophy and humor.
I would love to see the characters in a play calling the author to understand the future, like an ancient oracle.

No he leído nada que sea tan gracioso, original y ocurrente como esta recopilación. Se trata de una serie de cuentos e historias escritas por el autor a lo largo de varios años, algunas con su característico estilo y otras que parecen venir directamente de otro planeta. Es un libro ideal para aquellos que buscan algo divertido, pero con muchísimo nivel y chispa, perfecto para releer por partes o completo. Indispensable en cualquier biblioteca, ya sea física o virtual :)
Čirá Anarchie sa mi páčila veľmi, takže očakávania boli vysoké. Neviem či je to Woodym, mnou alebo prekladom (nejkým strašným omylom som si zadovážila slovenský preklad namiesto českého) ale túto knihu som na nakoniec pretrpela. Niektoré nápady boli geniálne, ale ako celok ma to nudilo. Jendu hviezdičku dávam preto, že menej sa dať nedá a druhú za intelektuálne radodajky.
Funny stuff that is definitely early Woody.
Tiekli mi slzy a vydávala som štartovacie zvuky považované u bronchitikov za úprimný smiech.
(Videla som niekoľko Allenových komédií a takmer vždy to bol trvalý útok na moju bránicu.
74)Myslím, že byla chyba dávat se dohromady s Gauguinem.
79)"Proto jsi spala se svým psychoanalytikem?" [Weinstein]"To byla terapie," pravila chladně.
"Podle Freuda je sex královská cesta k nevědomí." [ex-manželka Harriet]"Freud říkal, že sny jsou cesta k nevědomí.""Sex nebo sny - nebuď hnidopich!"Prvá (troj)veta:[Výbor z Allenových zápisníků](Výňatky z dosud tajného soukromého deníku Woodyho Allena.
Tóm tắt việc sử dụng não của mình cho quyển này:- 30% thời gian sử dụng não một cách có thành ý, bị tác giả xoắn não vài cú ngoạn mục và rõ ràng là có để lại vài nếp nhăn, đồng thời với việc bị xoắn não là miệng bị méo vì cười không đúng cách :)_).
Điển hình là chương "sách cuộn" với ông "Chúa" level nói đùa với tổ phụ Abraham, hoặc trong "chỉ dẫn ngắn nhưng hữu ích về bất tuân dân sự", "đừng đùa với thanh tra Ford",...- 30% thời gian ráng sử dụng não hết công suất mà chỉ cảm thấy não hơi "ong ong", miệng ú ớ vài tiếng: chắc mình hiểu đúng.
1.5, la verdad. Lo bueno es que terminó.
There are two ways one can go about reviewing this book; either try to match its top-notch absurdist humor and witty wordplay (and fail miserably), or write the most mind-numbingly humdrum review ever. So I'll do neither.
I went backwards as far as Take the Money and Run and particularly liking "Bananas", "Annie Hall", "Zelig" and - on a far different level - "Manhattan"."Manhattan" became quite soon the first movie I watched more than twice and also the first movie I watched in original language (with English written subtitles to get it better) due to that awful dubbing business which made three generations of Italians unable to get any English.I briefly fell in love with Diane Keaton (!), quoted too many times Muriel Hemingway's final sentence "Not everybody gets corrupted" and still know large bits of "Manhattan" by heart.When a few years ago I heard the Italian dubbed version by mere coincidence I couldn't tolerate it.
