https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1676628.Dope
I tip my hat to the fine folks at Project Gutenberg: virtually every title I have or will be reading in the near future comes from them.Dope, a Story of Chinatown is a non-Fu Manchu novel that marks the first appearance of Chief Inspector Red Kerry.
Kerry is trying to solve a mystery that involves a mystic/drug dealer and embroils him in a web of deceit, Chinese merchants, and passions.There are descriptions of drug use that may alienate some people (just as the casual racism may.) Some of the places and situations remind me of Conan Doyle’s story, “The Man with the Twisted Lip” where Watson accidentally meets Holmes while the former is retrieving a friend’s husband.
Fairly wallows in the depravity of 1920s opium dens, with outrageous 'yellow Chinamen' and other stereotypes, and the most aaaatrocious Scottish accent I've ever seen (Mrs Second-Sight Kerry is from 'the shores of Loch Broom' but via Brigadoon and Mike Myers - even on paper).
Rather raw descriptions of cocaine and opium use, and also gets bogged in descriptions of rooms and corridors, and then a bit incoherent.
Also, as I see some more evil Chinamen lurking in my 1920s reading list, I feel obliged to remember that it was Jardine & Matheson who introduced opium to China against the wishes of the imperial court in the 1840s, in the cause of free trade and with the enthusiasm of the British government, ie to balance their tea exports.
There are lots of things wrong with this story, but there is a fun bit of mystery to be had in the end. It's set in London, roughly a century ago. The main characters are society types who are mixed up with drugs and a fierce cop who is trying to get to the bottom of the matter.
1910 novel of British upper class, opium dens and murder. (This author wrote all the Dr. Fu Manchu books.) Fun froth.
A better read than the Fu Manchu series in that this story was considerably more plausible.
The beautiful people turn out to be not so beautiful after all.
I would say that this could apply to today, but there isn't even an attempt to conceal anything now.
cons: Most overused word: Savagely.
The fake walls and the trap doors hearken back to the Fu Manchu stories.
And for those taken aback by the racist inferences, consider the time, the upbringing and the fact that we are seeing it from a singular point of view.
Times have changed for most of us.
Rohmer's account of the girls descent into drug addiction that makes up the books second section is surprisingly truthful for the times and for Rohmer. However the book in it's last half is more typical of Rohmer as the police chase down yet another villainous Chinaman, although Rohmer has to gain a few points for naming him Sin Sin Wa.
From a literary point of view, this is most certainly no master piece. It's a sensationalist "mystery", not very well executed, and full of the absolutely worst kinds of stereotypical and xenophobic character depictions (remember, this IS a book by Sax Rohmer). But as a source on the contemporary view of the drug and nightclub scene, it's very useful, and rather entertaining.
(First read Jan 2012]the racism can be tough to stomach. and I imagine many people would have no reason or wish to do so! I like crime/adventure stories like this, and in a few ways Rohmer is pretty good at it. I love the sense of place in all the locations near or on the river. and the fog.
guilty pleasure ;)
read SOMETIME in 2006
Couldn't put this one down... Great fiction transcends time.
Classic murder mystery featuring dope fiends, opium dens and sinister chinamen
