https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/962781.The_Dragons_of_Blueland
This is a pretty fun book about how the dragon tries to go home to his six sisters and seven brothers, and his dear gigantic mother and father.On the way, he's spotted by a farmer, leading to the best part of the book, the hilarious Chapter Two: Mr. and Mrs. Wagonwheel. I was laughing out loud at these kooks. So funny.More problems arise as the dragon approaches home only to find some men have trapped his family in their cave! Can he and his human friend Elmer save them?
Cale & I’s first read aloud! Somehow started with the last book of the trilogy but he still loved it. Chapters are honestly no longer than a picture book, we read two in a sitting for about 10 minutes. :)
The baby dragon drops off Elmer, flies home to Blueland, and discovers his enormous - in both number and poundage - family is in danger of being captured and taken to the zoo.
He goes back to get Elmer...
(view spoiler)[who quickly resolves the problem, the end.
(hide spoiler)]Considerably weaker than the first two, though the kids didn't complain.
I have the feeling that Gannett rushed this one so as to get it out of the way; she seems to have married and begun having children around the time she was writing "Dragons of Blueland".
This was the least favorite of the series. The first one was the best, and it went downhill from there. I read this for the first time with my 5-year old son. He wanted to rate it with 4 stars; this is the first trilogy we have gotten through together. I would have given it two stars, but added an extra one because it wrapped up the story well, and I will always have the memories of reading this with my son.
A wonderful early reader story. I remember reading this when I was little, the librarian @ my elementary had a bunch of us help her craft a gigantic yellow & blue paper mache (covering a 8x4 foot chicken wired body) dragon to be displayed in the library. When I had my own children I read the series them while they were small as well.
The second and third books weren't anywhere near as good as the first, but my kids adored these books, so 4 stars. This was the first genuine chapter book series we've finished together, and they were quite proud of that. They are great adventure stories for kids that scare easily (like my five year old), and I enjoy their gentleness and charm.
This was my least favorite of the trilogy, because it just wasn't as funny as the first, and didn't have the feeling of adventure of the second. This was Charlie's favorite of the trilogy "because it had all the dragons in it."
The conclusion of a really sweet series that my kids wanted to read on their own after hearing it from me. What more could a parent hope for?
This was one of my favorite books ever as a child!
The book is a great tool for the imagination, and as I happily found out today the remaining two books in the trilogy are all as equally wonderful.This book follows in the footsteps of  Elmer and the Dragon with the dragon endeavoring to return to his homeland of Blueland.
He rushes back to Elmer for help, and together they devise a plan to hopefully free the dragon's family before it's too late and they're shipped off to zoos and circuses.The brilliant illustrations continue to titillate the imagination, and the dragon's mad flight is a delight to read.
The dragon's family, while figuring little in the book, is likewise wonderful and the illustrations were enough to make me laugh.
The final chapter in the tale of Elmer and the baby dragon he rescued is a satisfying conclusion to this children's trilogy, and helps wrap up their adventures nicely.
And the entire series is not only sweet and charming, but a nice stepping stone from picture books to chapter books for children.After parting ways with Elmer, the baby dragon, Boris, sets out to find his family.
A sweet and lovely ending to a charming children's book trilogy, "The Dragons of Blueland" still manages to delight readers over sixty years later, and is both a nostalgic return to the past for adults and an entertaining adventure story for kids.
A bit tired.Boris--that's the dragon's name--drops off Elmer at home, then starts his own journey home to the Mountains of Blueland.
The men don't look like they're going to leave without taking some dragons with them.Boris knows a secret entrance the cave, so he sneaks [almost all the way] in and tells his family to sit tight--he will go for help.
There are some plot points that don't make sense: Boris makes his way home very slowly with a few close calls with humans, but when he's going to and from picking up Elmer, he manages the journey much more quickly and easily.
My five-year-old and I finished this book, and thus the trilogy, tonight.
I felt like this book was mostly exposition, and then not enough time was spent on the escape of the dragons, which was the most exciting part.
I also wish we readers got to spend more time with Boris the Dragon and his enormous family.
And he likes to look at the illustrations a lot and will study them even when I'm not reading with him.
I only wish they were in color!I'll definitely be recommending this trilogy to other parents.
We have just finished reading: My father's dragon -- Elmer and the dragon -- The dragons of Blueland.We absolutely loved the books!
They are short chapter books, approx.
Despite being short they still feel like a full story and remind me of the books I read as a child (which were largely published in the 1800s or 1950s.Miss 4 and I like to explore different books and authors at the library, sometimes around particular topics or themes.
We try to get different ones out every week or so; it's fun for both of us to have the variety and to look at a mix of new & favourite authors.
Elmer and the dragon he rescued come together again, this time to save the dragon's family from a group of men that have discovered their hidden home and plan to capture them.After reading the second book in this series, which I didn't think was very good, it was great to see Gannett return to the type of story that she created in the first book.
My daughter really enjoyed this one and we read it a couple times, much like we did the first book.
I would definitely recommend this series for young readers, though honestly you could skip the second book and not really miss anything.
Read with Silas :)
Read with Vivian (age 7)
This adventure kept the kids interested and they wanted to hear more to find out what happened next.
The first in the series is the best. But trilogy story for read aloud to early readers.
I didn't like them trapped in the mountain.
Such a fun read aloud book! Perfect for preschoolers!!!
Cute, just like the other two.
2018 - Read aloud with W age 4
...although, I'd love it if there was a fourth in the series - could you imagine?
I liked the newspaper story in the end.
The best of all the dragon stories.
~2017 Reading Challenge: a book involving a mythical creature~
I liked it! I liked Elmer saving the dragon's family from the guys.
This book is so charming. You just feel that 1950s era nostalgia after reading it. A wonderful children's story that will still capture young hearts and minds today.
I did not enjoy this quite as much as the first book but it was still fun and fanciful.
