https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42359.Pinky_Pye
It's an almost 60 year old book, but it's still crisp and enchanting, with its small mystery and chatty yet wry narrative; reading Pinky Pye  - really, reading Estes period - arouses an overwhelming sense of nostalgia for a another time and place (albeit one most likely nonexistent outside of children's books and fuzzy memories).
I hope there are still families like the Pyes out there, children who can still be fascinated by crickets and watching a man catch a 2 lb fish in the surf, who build wagons from junk drifted to shore after a storm, who teach their dogs to count, who are content (or even allowed) to sit on the roof and watch whatever needs to be watched.
Another fun title by Estes! Cleanliness Report coming soon!
I read this just after Ginger Pye and loved it even more. I also remembered it more as I was going along. I probably read this just a couple of times as a young child, and the sequel three or four times. It's a very happy book, charming, graceful, with some humor that children might not catch the first time through.
I was surprised to find that I enjoyed the sequel much more than the first book!Pinky Pye tells of the Pyes' summer in the northeastern US sea on Fire Island, and their discover of a remarkable and precocious abandoned kitten.
There's still the feeling of nostalgia and a time long gone by, but this one seemed a little more engaging, and it also featured the title character more, who really did live up to her reputation as a cleverer than usual pet (poor Ginger).I really liked this book, and it's rare when the sequel can live up to its predecessor, even if it's written by the original author (I'm looking at you, Dodie Smith).
An ideal family full of curious outdoor-loving children go on a summer trip with their mother, bird-man father, to Fire Island with the their five year old uncle and the family pets--for an adventure!
This is a sweet old fashioned tale meant completely for children, which I found to be refreshing, yet the vocabulary and truisms of children and family life were humorous and laugh out loud for an adult.
Did Father or the new-found adorable kitten who loves to type write the book?
Let your children decide.
I adored so much about this book and have found a new favorite author.
I love all the Eleanor Estes books, but particularly those about the Pyes and Moffats. This one is no exception. This is a charming and sweet tale, and a great follow up to "Ginger Pye," Estes Newbery Award winning book. This is a great read for both children and adults - kids will enjoy the adventure of the people and the pets, and adults will enjoy the charm and nostalgia for a simpler time.
This is a cute little story about a kitten named Pinky who is abandoned on Fire Island, and adopted by the Pye family while they are on vacation there. Pinky and the other family cat, Gracie, are the only ones who know the secret hiding in the attic of the Pye's vacation cottage. Pinky astonishes everyone on the island with her feline prowess and intelligence. The little family adventures keep the story interesting and fun!The plot is fairly obvious, and the writing is nothing special; but the wholesome charm of this story kept me reading and enjoying it!
Surprisingly, I thought this book was awful. Previously, I read its predecessor, Ginger Pye, which was a Newbery Medal winner. Well, this one was not and it is clear why. The plot was so loosely constructed I found many of the chapters absolutely unnecessary which really should never happen in a book, much less a book for children. It was, altogether, boring. It's a shame because Eleanor Estes is a really great author and I love most of her novels. But with this one, in my opinion, she should have taken a break from her typewriter.
Luettu suomeksi nimellä "Lintumiehen perhe". Mainio ja lämminhenkinen kirja, kivaa perhe-elämän ja eläinten kuvausta. Kirjaa ei löydy suomeksi tästä palvelusta, mutta jos haluat lukea kommenttini, se löytyy Kirjasammosta, mistä löytyy myös teoksen kirjastoittainen saatavuus. Linkki:http://www.kirjasampo.fi/fi/kulsa/sah...
i also really really really liked this book too. although i read it when i was little, i still think it was a good book. i like books that tell about peoples lives and this was perfect! i love this book. i think it was just as good as gynger pie and should deserve a medal too :-p!
WORST book ever,VEARY poorly written
The Pyes have summer adventures – and add a new member to the family, the cat Pinky – when Mr. Pye, a bird-man, is sent to Fire Island. It’s dated, nostalgic, slow-paced, and sweet, and best for innocent, undemanding younger readers.
This is the much beloved sequel to Ginger Pye. I listened to this book aloud via audio book. Another beautiful written book by Eleanor Easte. Fun, engaging and full of surprises. My 8,6,4 year old really liked this one.
I'm so glad we followed up after "Ginger Pye" and are reading this one. This book is better than Ginger. The chapters don't seem to ramble on and on or change focus. My girls, aged 9 and 13, are both enjoying the story and hate when we can't read one night. We love Pinky, and her, "Woe."
Delightful story of how the Pye family acquires a small kitty who likes to type and climb. Or does she acquire them?
Cute.
The Pye family is back, with nine (almost ten) year old Rachel, brother Jerry who is ten, Papa who is a famous ornithologist or bird man, Mama, three (almost four) year old Uncle Bennie, cat Gracie, and very smart dog Ginger.
Meanwhile at The Eyrie on Fire Island, Pinky is earning a place in the Pyes’ hearts by boxing with Ginger, playing games with Mr. Pye, watching Uncle Bennie collect crickets and grasshoppers, and, of course, typing her meditations.
Uncle Bennie is putting his crickets and grasshoppers in the attic to sleep at night, but in the morning they’re gone and their box is poked through with holes.
The situations in "Ginger"'s story were at least believable, and well-told, but by the end of the book I was doing some serious eye-rolling.
(That whole silly business with the seagull!)If Estes had stuck to a happy summer outing, and maybe had Mr Pye find the owl in a more believable way--maybe on that visit to the sunken forest which is so disappointingly glossed over in two sentences after a long leadup--it would have made a much better read.
I think if I had read this book as a child, it would have made me as twitchy with embarassment for the author as some of the sillier episodes of the Moffat stories did.
I read and enjoyed Ginger Pye and have long awaited this sequel, Pinky Pye. It wasn't a bad book.
The writing was SO simplistic, even more so than Ginger Pye. And my other main complaint: there's no problem, no crisis that they have to resolve.
Pinky Pye. She's so smart, she can type!
But, from there, the story gets SO boring.
There's that whole deal with the owl, but it doesn't have anything to do with Pinky's ability to type.
If you a) are in the intended age group, ages 8 and up, and b) read and enjoyed Ginger Pye, then I recommend Pinky Pye.
The 1958 sequel to Newbery-winning GINGER PYE by Eleanor Estes (1906-1988) that features the likable Pye family of Cranbury, CT, and that almost entirely takes place one summer on Fire Island at a cottage named, by its owner Mrs Pulie, the Eyrie.
--gets added to the PYE family that consists of: Mr. Pye, an ornithologist; Mrs. Pye, the family cook; Rachel, 9; Jared, 10; Gracie,the New York cat, 11 years in the family; Ginger, the dog; and Uncle Bennie, who turns 4 on the 4th of July, a day that's looming as the supposed beginning of the end of Bennie's thumb-sucking!
Better and more focused than Estes' Ginger Pye, to which this is a sequel, but with the same warmth, and with the author demonstrating the same ability to get into a kid's head.Here, the Pye family spends the summer on Fire Island where the father intends to study birds, but finds himself laid up with a sprained ankle instead.
Housebound, Pye bonds with the newly-adopted kitten, who fascinates herself with the typewriter.
Much of the charm of the book is found in the portions "written" by the kitten.
The kids loved it and wished that there were more adventures of the Pye family.
She was a cute, feisty, conceited, talented, observant little kitten.
I wish I had a kitten just like her.This book was also considerably less sad than the first one.
There was a nice little mystery though, even if it was pretty easy to guess.
It’s about a certain other animal, too, and it’s about watching and observing.I almost wish there was a third book.
I’m sure there can be no end to the adventures of the Pyes.See the full review on my blog, Awesome Book Assessment.
Continuing my current phase of rereading childhood favorites, I stumbled on Pinky Pye at the library, as I cruised down the aisle in the childrens' room.
And I reread it with relish, all these years (50 or more) later.
Although I figured out the 'mystery' long before the characters in the book did -- possibly assisted by the faint memory of the first time I read it, all those years ago -- I read it to the end.
Delightful characters, and a window into a time much farther removed from today, than when I read it originally.
Sweet, rather slow story about a family who moves to an East Coast island for the summer so that the ornithologist dad can do some research on the local bird population and ends up taking in a clever and funny abandoned black kitten. Gentle humor that appealed to all of us (including my husband, who is more of a horror/thriller reader). We solved the "mystery" early on, but it was still fun to hear about the family and their pets. Especially if you've enjoyed Estes' other books, or the books of Elizabeth Enright, you're likely to enjoy this.

We listened to this as a family on our drive to Florida one winter.
We couldn't wait to get back in the car to listen after pit stops!The story follows the Pye family for a summer month on Fire Island, which is a new place for them to explore while their father studies birds.
They adopt a cat, Pinky, as a companion to their dog Ginger (another Estes story we will have to read too).
It's a simple story of simple timeless summer adventures with a cute twist at the end.
Cute story about a family's summer on Fire Island, where their father is supposed to be studying birds but hurts himself and is confined to the yard.
Mr. Pye spends more time studying the antics the homeless kitten the family adopts.
Everyone agrees that the kitten - Pinky Pye - is quite brilliant - especially as she learns to type.
Other members of the family take over the bird-watching (that is, his daughter and the two cats) and they make a remarkable discovery in their attic!!
At times this book was a little slow and I wished we could hurry up to the ending, but the twins enjoyed it!
Gentle and sweet story about the Pye family's summer adventure on Fire island. I read it together with my daughter. The language is excellent and appropriate for 3rd-5th grade. Lot's of little anecdote's to amuse the kids, about animals, birds along the way as the story builds up to a nice climax. The characters are entertaining with distinct personalities. I thought it was funny that the author even wrote from the point of view of the cat, she must be a cat owner.
Another great book by Eleanor Estes, we laughed a lot with this story. Pinky is by far the most interesting member of the family! "She is adorable, lovable, enchanting and fascinating. A whole book could be written about her and has been. Look in the library for it. Don't skip a word of it, it's all true." -a quote from Pinky Pye about Pinky Pye from the book Pinky Pye.
This was a great book. I liked Ginger Pye a little more than Pinky Pye, but it still was pretty well- written! I'm sure many people would agree with me. Cat lovers would adore this book! It was a somewhat long read, but it wasn't too long that it would become uninteresting. People would really enjoy this book.
