https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227002.Quartet_in_Autumn
Widower Edwin’s hobby is attending Anglican services; Norman lives off fried food and visits his brother-in-law in hospital; Letty lives in a boarding house and has a friend in the countryside; Marcia has had a mastectomy and hoards tinned food and empty milk bottles.But for all of them a line applied to Letty holds true: “It was a comfortable enough life, if a little sterile, perhaps even deprived.” Especially after her retirement, Letty knows “she must never give the slightest hint of loneliness or boredom, the sense of time hanging heavy.”From what I’d heard about Pym, I might have expected a lighthearted satire about country manners and Anglican vicars.
(Pym too had recently left her long time editing job due to ill health.) As always the characters are utterly unique.
When Marcia and Letty retire the four are separated but events keep bringing them together and not always for happy events.I love Pym’s subtly, the blind allies she leads us down, the insights you have to suss out for yourself, the unexpected out of place humor, the heart tugs that don’t spill over into schmaltz…but just barely.
I think in “Quartet” she’s at her best though, if you’ve read her earlier books, it might jolt you with its darker tone.
I don't think she's that underrated actually.(view spoiler)[In 1977 the Times Literary Supplement polled a host of literary notables asking them to name the most underrated writer of the 20th century. Pym was the only author who received more than one vote; Larkin and Lord David Cecil both picked her. (hide spoiler)]
"No meio da vida estamos no meio da morte..."Letty, Marcia, Edwin e Norman são quatro sexagenários - duas mulheres e dois homens - que trabalham na mesma empresa.
Um é viúvo os outros são solteiros.
Reservados e solitários, a ligação entre eles é a usual entre colegas de trabalho, pouco conhecendo uns dos outros.
Com o aproximar do momento da aposentação, surge a angústia do que fazer de tanto tempo livre, além de vaguear e esperar...Docemente, sem nunca cair no melodrama, Barbara Pym envolveu-me serenamente no dia-a-dia daqueles seres tão comuns, que aceitam a velhice, a doença, a solidão, a perda como algo natural da vida e resgatam da adversidade um pouco de esperança ou ilusão."...
I enjoyed this story that was more of a character study of four elderly office workers that lived quiet lives in London during the 1970's. Each character had their own unique quirks but ultimately their rigidness turned into a tale of loneliness.
They quite often did this now, and although it had started by Mrs Pope suggesting that Letty might like to watch the news or some improving programme of cultural or scientific interest there was now hardly an evening when Letty did not come down to watch whatever happened to be on the box, whether it was worthy of attention or not.”The story of these quiet sad, lonely people are not entirely dispiriting though, while Marcia becomes more obsessive and secretive – Letty at least shows she is able to remain positive and move forward in her life, even beginning to reach out to the people around her by the end of the novel.A novel of four ageing lonely people who have out lived their usefulness – whose jobs, when they retire will not be re-filled – is understandably poignant, but it is also shot through with Barbara Pym’s sharp humour.

Such a lovely hopeful heartbreaking novel. I wish I'd read Barbara Pym before.
A look at 4 unmarried people of retirement age in the 1970s, 2 men and 2 women who work together (before the women retire). As I am approaching this age myself, I found some aspects of this a little daunting but I take heart in the fact that I am not like Marcia!!
Quartet in Autumn is about two men and two women in their early sixties, solitary but not necessarily lonely Londoners, who work in the same office in the mid-1970s.
When the two women, Marcia and Letty, retire, the equilibrium of each member of the foursome, which other than the 8 hours a day they spend together at work have absolutely no connection or relationship to one another, is shaken in unforeseen ways.
Typical Pym: subtle humor, sharp observation with at least one character who is an enthusiastic Anglican.
Points for one character who has cauliflower au gratin for lunch which is surly a variation on cauliflower cheese?
On the contrary, there is so much compassion in the awkward way that the four retired protagonists connect.
Their thoughts run unbidden to one another, the tiny echoes of past interactions, in the absence of pressing current concerns, dictate their inner (and outer) lives.Pym's ability to write the quotidian rhythm of life without losing the reader is both artistic triumph and a reaction to the hegemony of the young.
Away from the current of social change of 1970s England (though not unaware of it), away from the passion of youth and the caprice of narrative, Quartet in Autumn finds humanity and hope in quiet and unnoticed lives.
I can't tell if Barbara Pym was writing this tongue in cheek or if the 1970s were really so different from today.
I really enjoyed the book despite the comments above.
In my view, the characters are the reason to read Barbara Pym. But the story is also interesting; the writing is wonderful.
This book was short-listed for the Booker Prize in 1977.
I've found these recurrent themes in the 3 books I've read by her.
Friendships are key in her books.
According to wikipedia, she was "was also one of the first popular novelists to write sympathetically about unambiguously gay characters" (referring specifically to A GLASS OF BLESSINGS)
Although I can't totally relate with the stage of life that the characters are in, I did find them interesting, sympathetic, and I liked how it showed the different ways in which each character handled life changes and how they approached getting older.
I just re-read this for the second time and , to my surprise, it ended on a more upbeat note than I had remembered. Each character is sensitively portrayed and the manner in which they relate to one another rings true. They both know and care more about each other than they realize. How each person puts meaning into his or her life is written in the understated and clear-eyed Pym manner. There is pathos, tenderness, and humor here and Quartet in Autumn reigns supreme for me over all Pym's other novels.
QUARTET IN AUTUMN. (1978). Barbara Pym. *****. This was Ms. Pym’s first book after being ignored for sixteen years by English publishing houses. She was resurrected after an article appeared in the TLS written by two critics in answer to the question: “Who was the most neglected writer of the past fifty years?” (or words to that effect). They both named Pym. This novel was published soon after that article, and was short-listed for the Booker Prize that year. It is the story of four elderly peop
They both named Pym. This novel was published soon after that article, and was short-listed for the Booker Prize that year.
It is the story of four elderly people who all work together in the same office by day.
Each of these elderly people is lonely in his/her own way, but has learned to cope.
In their minds they try and reach out to each other, but can never seem to actually do it, until the death of one of them brings the remaining three as close together as they are likely to get.
A more intense Pym work than ever.
Reading Pym is like someone sitting eye to eye with you and talking very honestly about the private thoughts, faults, and wishes of people.
No baloney, no highly-built plots, no messiness.
Her characters are aggravating, just like people we know.
They aren't always attractive or sexy.
They age and make mistakes and sometimes cannot get outside of themselves.
And they often miss the brass ring, but are still ok in spite of it.
And through these characters Barbara Pym wrote again and again about the beautiful sweet and sad mixture that is life.
As usual Pym is wonderful. This one is rather darker than most of her other novels. This is what Anita Brookner would be like if she had a sense of humor.
A partir daí, com um senso de humor peculiar e refinado, a autora retrata as dificuldades de adaptação dessas pessoas, que a partir daí tem um grande problema pela frente: o que fazer com tanto tempo disponível?
O livro tem um tom bem melancólico, mas tudo é narrado com tanta delicadeza, tanta sutileza que é possível sentir um certo quentinho no coração apesar da situação meio deprimente e patética vivida por essa quatro pessoas.É uma pena que essa autora tenha tão poucos leitores...
faz com que tudo valha a pena..." 3% (5 de 195)"Naquele dia os quatro forma à biblioteca, embora em horários diferentes.
I've decided to stop resisting the impulse to give Barbara Pym novels 5 stars, because let's face it, I love them. Despite her trademark lightness and wit, however, this is a fantastically grim and bleak novel. 4 friends -- or rather, colleagues, for they are barely friends -- approach retirement. Hilarious hijinx most decidedly do not ensue. They are difficult people; lonely, yet nervously hostile to foreigners and Black people, and mean-spirited towards each other; searching for intellectual and emotional satisfaction, but instead consumed in minutia. It is an amazing book.
Vintage, wonderful Pym, but too close for comfort, as I'm getting up there in years myself. But is 60 is the new 40? Her characters are beautifully drawn, and out of four isolated individuals Pym creates a sort of bittersweetly harmonic symphony with a note of optimism at the end.
What a lovely but sad novel.Barbara Pym has such an eye for detail of the eccentricities of life and human frailties as we approach old age. Told with wit and charm.I loved it!
A book about four people, two women and two men, who work together in an office doing work that is never explained.
The women, Marcia and Letty, are being laid off and will not be replaced, leaving the men, Erwin and Norman, to carry on alone.
At first the men are dismayed but quickly accustom themselves to having the office to themselves.Erwin and Norman decide to keep in touch with both women, and the plot proceeds.
The men carry on with their lives, such as those lives are.This novel is the first of Pym’s I’ve read, but I’m continuing to read others.
This book made me want to go and stick my head in the oven - but in a good way!
It's a simple, elegiac and darkly humorous novel about middle age in a certain era.
The loneliness of the four main characters is palpable and the mundane and repressed existence of the post-war middle classes as they near retirement is vividly captured on every page.
The humour lies in the subtle mockery of their lives, but not in mocking the characters themselves whom I feel the author secretly loves.
Writing of the lightest touch.
I can see why Larkin said she was under-rated.
Her style of novel is different from more modern novels, subtle, less based on action and technique but focused on a solid plot and well-developed characters.
The novel follows these four characters as they approach the autumns of their lives, reaching retirement, having worked their entire lives at the same company since World War 2.
Each character has different challenges and ways of coping with growing older in solitude and their journeys are both sad and uplifting.This book is plotted well with beautiful characters, but it doesn’t rely on action or flair to tell this story.
Quartet in Autumn is a mediation, a quiet study of the lives of four people as they age and living in their world.
It seems Ms. Pym couldn't get the book published.
If you've read the book do you have any idea why it wasn't published right away?
It ended up in little piles in my bedroom (no I'm not much of a housekeeper) but it was sort of a symbol of some of the characters lives in the book."Quartet in Autumn is one of the books Pym wrote during the 15 years when no one would publish her, and perhaps the same kind of balance between hopelessness and inner strength helped shape this novel's story about four friends in an office nearing the age of retirement.
I had never even heard of Pym, but after reading Quartet in Autumn and Excellent Women I can see why some regard her as the most underrated British author of the 20th century.
Marcia, Letty, Edwin, and Norman have little in common other than their shared office space, but the novel shows just how intertwined lives can become, even when the connections between individuals seem tenuous or artificial.
One tragic situation in particular forces a closer acquaintance for the four, and while I don't want to spoil anything, I found myself both profoundly saddened and strangely hopeful after reading the book.Pym does a spectacular job of making four ordinary--sometimes truly odd--older people into intensely sympathetic characters.
Quartet had me gasping with shock and astonished laughter at nearly every page.
Set in seventies London the book traces the everyday lives of four lonely individuals in the autumn of their years.
Pym has managed to write a book that contains barely any likeable characters but that is still a page-turner, and this daring has ensured a work of painstaking (and painful!) observation of human nature.
It’s an uncomfortable read, and a sad one, but in its favour it is thought-provoking rather than didactic.
It’s not stylistically amazing but well worth a read and I couldn’t stand to put it down until I’d finished it.
#1977Club - April 2018‘Quartet in Autumn’ is one of Pym’s more memorable novels because of its theme of growing old and the loneliness and isolation that can occur with ageing. But what makes this heavy theme bearable is Pym’s incredible ability to add humour and lightness to even the most bleak of topics. I found this novel intelligent, moving and incredibly relevant with our social and political issues we face today.For a full review, do check out my most recent blog post:http://ramblingsofaredheadedsnippet.c...
My dad used to say, "Bad news, Good news." So as one of the foursome passes away, will this be good news or bad news to the remaining lonely threesome. This book takes a look at people who live in a small world without too many friends or relatives and how filling up their time in retirement could be a time of apprehension. A short read, moving slowly but deliberately and decisively towards the end goal.
I loved this book. After a slow start I really started to feel for the characters. A sensitive look at their lonely lives struggling to deal with retirement, trying to reach out in their own way, some with more success than others. Although sad I felt there was hope at the end. I will definately be reading more Barbara Pym.
