https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2235096.Kitty_Foyle
Just so alive and colorful, if someone told me it had been written today, but set in a past time, I'd have believed it.I esp.
loved when people complained about a lack of privacy or way to be alone, because in this modern age (the 1920's) there are so many ways for people to connect: by telephone and telegram; and what with movies and newspapers, books and magazines, people are involved with each other all the time.
Some complaints, or the way we look at life, are ageless, I suppose.Anyhow, loved the book.
This is a story, kind of racy for its time, of a girl who is working and growing up in the first half of the century.
There are really important pop culture references in here, and that's part of what I love -- immigrant pop culture is here.
Kitty's a Philadelphian who gets involved with the upper class, and so there's reference to the old Philadelphia main line.
I love that.Kitty's written by a man.
In fact, I remember being impressed by Morley's ability to capture a woman's thoughts.
Or, more to the point, really, I guess to capture this particular woman's thoughts.
A short episode of countryside life & study is ended by a sever illness of her Dad, so she returns home.
As one could expect, a classic drama changes Kitty´s life - a boy from the upper level of society and her fall in love.
But it is not a simple love story as one could expect.
It is a great reaging though, and I love returning to this book to enjoy powerful dialogues of girls that found themselves unexpectedly in the job market and jobs that just were created.
It was fun to read because it is a book that is very much a product of its time (traditional gender roles, constant visits to speak-easies, racist language), but it also feels very timeless and contemporary in Kitty's reflections on life and human nature.
I read the book because I wanted to see how much the movie had sanitized it.
The book is quite different, and in some ways the Kitty of the book seems more mature than the Kitty of the movie, more capably independent; however, both are interesting peeks into budding feminist thought in the years leading up to war, and visions of women who have lives outside of married domesticity.
Told in the first person, girl from the wrong side of the tracks meets and falls in love with a guy from the other side.
Smart Kitty knows it won't last after she meets his family but can't help herself as she falls into the affair.
Ahead of its time regarding what young women were thinking (ie.
smoking, drinking, and sex!) but it was written by a man which was surprising.A different read and interesting how Morley writes.
Also, he thoughts on social differences, politics and religion are even true today...
really ahead of his time.
I guess that I never realized that one of my favorite movies was a book.
There are not many adaptations that I like, I am usually on the side of the book.
I heard Ginger Rogers tell me the entire story.
Her character was well drawn but Wyn was weak, he had a few moments but, other than charm, he did nothing for me.
I was most drawn to the stories of friends chatting together over work and life and loved the descriptions of the retail industry in the early part of the last century (I say this as I prepare to binge on season 2 of Mr Selfridge starting tomorrow!).
I finished re-reading this classic novel from the late 1930s, for the first time since I was a teenager. (My mother had given it to me then.) A sweet & charming book, a little slow-moving for today's tastes, but it so captures the spirit of that time and the lives of the "white collar girls," as the narrator (Kitty Foyle) calls them.Apparently, the book was a big bestseller in its day. It was also made into a 1940 Oscar-winning movie, starring Ginger Rogers as Kitty.
Yet, our protagonist, Kitty, is a single gal who’s gotten pregnant out of wedlock AND had an abortion.
Having just read “A Tree Grow in Brooklyn,” and “”Sister Carrie,” it’s hard not to compare the three, especially “Tree” being published after “Kitty” in 1943.
Kitty is more middle class than the other two – she’s referred to as a “white collar girl.” Like “A Tree Grows .
However, the movie is pretty darn good -- wished I'd seen it before reading the book.
I wish there was a 3 and half stars because I did really like this book. Not quite enough to rate a 4 though. I love that its written in 1939 so you get the jargon they used then. I love that it discusses sex without putting it in your face. That's how things were then. Subtle. I also love that she didn't throw herself at his head and chase him. Women today could learn from class like that.
This book was listed as one of the best written in 1939. It is a bit disappointing to me. More on: http://bookwinked.wordpress.com/
for some reason i wanted to read ths book. it was written in 1939 and must have been scandalous in its day. but a good story. i hear the movie is good as well
Found this copy at a book sale. Loved the movie, can't wait to read the original story. I did like this and kept hearing Ginger Rodgers narrate. Now I have to see the movie again.
Much was made at the time of the controversy of her getting pregnant without being married, which was almost as scandalous as her having an abortion, which also happened.
Most interesting to me was that this was told through first person narration of the woman, even though it was written by a man.
There may have been some sexism of the day, "I will write a woman because who else could, if not a man," but it is well written.
Not something I will remember forever having read and try to re-read throughout the years, but it was worth it once.
A must read for anyone who loves literature. What a great discover on the shelves of my local library, a repaired first edition no less. Morley’s prose is fun to read and even more delicious to decipher. I loved reading this novel, with raised eyebrows more than a few times by how we haven’t really, as a society, changed at all but also, how a character like Kitty Foyle came to life in the late 1930s....
Kitty Foyle, written by Christopher Morley, is a book about a good old American girl growing up in the 1920s and 30s.
It was written in 1939 and became one of the most popular books of that year.
The book was also turned into a movie starring Ginger Rogers.
As far as the movie goes, it’s the same old tale—the book it much better.
In fact, the book goes into so much more detail about Kitty’s past that the movie can hardly be considered more than the use of the character with little to no use of the plot.Read more: http://bookstove.com/book-talk/kitty-...
I loved this book. Christopher Morley has become one of my favorite authors. I have read three, Parnassus on Wheels, The Haunted Bookshop and now Kitty Foyle. Not a clinker in the group. This is the first person narrative of a "white collar girl" in the 1920,s and 1930's. It is hard to believe this book was written in 1939 and that it was written by a man. Christopher Morley clearly understood a lot about the desires and fears of all kinds of people.
This book mixes a working class/Main Line Philadelphia, depression-era, and white collar working girl struggles into one terrific story. Most of the themes are timeless and still with us today. The writing style is first-person and old fashioned, and all the more enjoyable for being so.
I have to thank Vicki for recommending this book to me and then lending me her copy. I really enjoyed this as much for the way the story is told (stream of consciousness) as for the characters and places. One caveat, it was written in 1939 so there is quite a bit of political incorrectness.
Just loved this book. African American place in families dated but probably appropriate for the times. Reread this again. Christopher's philosophies on life through out the book (as Kitty) are great and should be remembered (by me)
If you like good literature, this is the book for you. It's a classic, describing the different classes of people in the 1920's and 1930's in Philadelphia and Chicago. I LOVED THIS BOOK.
My mother, a professional stenographer, related to Kitty. Reading this book helped me grasp the world of the rising white collar woman in 1930's America.
One of my favorites and one of the few I hang onto permanently.
I was not as shocked by this book as I am sure many were when it originally appeared back in 1944. Great story. The novel I read had a 35 cent price on it so that sort of tells you how old it was.
Nice novel !
