https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51210.A_Streetcar_Named_Desire_and_Other_Plays
There is Blanche DuBois, the white woods, a kind of tragic, fading beauty who hasn’t quite forgiven herself for having killed her angelic husband by telling him how disgusted she was in him over his homosexual affair, conveniently while the other piece of music that plays throughout was playing.
I still haven’t reviewed that the Menagerie and probably never will now.So, what with the music (both floating in from the local bar and bouncing around in Blanche’s head) and nearly everyone in the play being a pain and some of the scenes being simply unbelievable (the last scene with the poker game going on as Blanche is being taken to the loony-bin is a case in point), I really can’t say I enjoyed this.
Erschwerend kommt die oft gravitätisch –sperrige Übersetzung von Berthold Viertel in meiner Ausgabe hinzu, die eine weitere Hürde darstellt.Unvorstellbar, dass das Einhorn sein Horn verliert, nur weil der Herrenbesuch schon anderweitig verlobt ist; was hätten Sylvia Plath oder Anne Sexton dazu gesagt, die nur wenig später die literarische Bühne betraten?Tom und Laura haben mich nicht wirklich gerührt, die klassische „Fallhöhe“, die dramatische Helden haben sollten, fehlt ihnen.
Und so bleibt dann am Ende nur die unausstehliche Mutter, die mir schließlich doch noch am besten gefallen hat, denn hier wird spürbar, wie aus einer fatalen Mischung aus eigener Unzulänglichkeit und Liebe zu den Kindern Tyrannei erwachsen kann.Und dann war da noch dieser eine Satz, den ich groß finde:„Er lächelte und leistete sich einen eleganten Abgang.“Fazit: 2,5 Sterne (manche Klassiker liest man besser nicht neu)2.
However, it is through insisting on veiling the harsh light of her shameful past with a paper lantern that she is blinded by her own inconsistencies and is confined to lying to others and to herself.Blanche's character foil is the new American immigrant from Poland Stanley Kowalski.
This act of desire results in the destructive death of Blanche's sanity leading her to her next afterlife- a nut house.My opinion is that Tennessee Williams weaves an intricate play from the dirt of humanity to show us caricature versions of ourselves.
For example, the male dictatorship chosen by Stanley to protect the ritual of poker games from the encroaching female fancies of listening to the radio.
Tennessee Williams was a master of drama filled with menace and the ever-present threat of sudden violence, of hot passions and driving ambitions, of the clash of egos and desires, of people on downward spirals who are still trying to hold onto their dignity and self-belief.
This book contains three great plays among the extraordinary body of his complete work.
His work is never simplistic, it never takes the easy path.
A Streetcar Named Desire is a brutal, sweaty, aggressive drama about doing what it takes in order to survive the bad hand that fate has dealt you.
Sweet Bird Of Youth; A Streetcar Named Desire; The Glass Menagerie - Tennessee Williams I used to think Williams was the best. Vivian Leigh in Streetcar is an amazing performance. Plus, it's always fun to see how old the actresses are playing women who are fading. I still think of his work fondly, although now it just seems melodramatic and overwrought. Or "bigger than life and twice as unnatural".Library copy
alcoolismo, homossexualidade, puritanismo, enganos, ciúmes, incesto, loucura, amor, ódio, amargura. emoções à flor da pele.todas as peças são excelentes. reli 'subitamente, no verão passado'. é a minha preferida. agora procuro a sua adaptação ao cinema, 'bruscamente, no verão passado'. sem sucesso.
সুইট বারড ... :ভালো লাগে নাই তাও না। পড়ে মনে হইছে টেনিসি উইলিয়ামস সারা জীবন লেখালেখি করার পর, যেই অসাধারণ কিছু বুলি কোনো নাটকে জুড়ে দিতে পারেন নাই, তাদের বযভার করতে কোনোমতে জোড়াতালি দিয়ে এই নাটক দাঁড় করায়ে ফেলছেন।এইভাবে বলা ঠিক না। কিনতু নাটকটার গলপে আমি কোনো তাল পাইলাম না। অনযদিকে বুলিগুলি, কলাসিক।দয গলাস ... :অতযনত ভালো। ছাপায়ে হাতে হাতে বিলি করার মত। ঘরে ঘরে মহড়া হওয়ার মত।ঘরে ঘরে, অনতত আমাদের সমৃতিতে, অবশয তাই হয়।সটরীটকার নেইমড ... :অসাধারণ লাগছে পড়ে।দুঃখ লাগতেছে, কার জনয জানি না। মিচ, বলানশ,
সুইট বার্ড ... :ভালো লাগে নাই তাও না। পড়ে মনে হইছে টেনিসি উইলিয়ামস সারা জীবন লেখালেখি করার পর, যেই অসাধারণ কিছু বুলি কোনো নাটকে জুড়ে দিতে পারেন নাই, তাদের ব্যভার করতে কোনোমতে জোড়াতালি দিয়ে এই নাটক দাঁড় করায়ে ফেলছেন।এইভাবে বলা ঠিক না। কিন্তু নাটকটার গল্পে আমি কোনো তাল পাইলাম না। অন্যদিকে বুলিগুলি, ক্লাসিক।দ্য গ্লাস ... :অত্যন্ত ভালো। ছাপায়ে হাতে হাতে বিলি করার মত। ঘরে ঘরে মহড়া হওয়ার মত।ঘরে ঘরে, অন্তত আমাদের স্মৃতিতে, অবশ্য তাই হয়।স্ট্রীটকার নেইমড ... :অসাধারণ লাগছে পড়ে।দুঃখ লাগতেছে, কার জন্য জানি না। মিচ, ব্লানশ, স্টেলা, স্ট্যান, আমি জানি না।৫ অক্টোবর ২০১৫
Neste livro estão quatro das suas principais peças: "O eléctrico chamado Desejo", "Gata em telhado de zinco quente", "Fumo de Verão" e "Bruscamente no Verão passado".Todas elas muito intensas, com personagens complexos e em que são debatidos temas que muitas vezes são "postos de lado" ou tratados de uma forma pouco esclarecedora.Aqui não.
I thought Blanche was fascinating and I wanted to use my black-belt skills on Stanley and make him bleed.
Reading up a little on his life makes me understand how he could write with such depth, though unlike some critics I’m loathe to make a direct link between Blanche and his sister.One curious effect the play had on me was it made me hungry to direct it.
Now, though, I’m seriously considering putting on a production.
Considering we’ve got a student acting society, with several good actors, I may actually do this next year.
So I enjoyed this book/play.
Thankfully vacation and pool time gave me a chance to finish this buddy read about 4 months late.I enjoyed the dialog and the setting.
I haven't read a play in forever but it was fun to get the off stage descriptions.
Um, this is kind of a big deal and it've never heard anything about it ever.
Even I had heard people yell out "Stella" before but no one wants to talk about how Stan rapes his sister in law then has her thrown in the looney bin?
I first fell in love with A Streetcar Named Desire when I studied it at an english literature evening class in 2005.
I had actually owned the book for a while; in a moment of sheer rebellion when I was hunting through my scatterbrained drama teacher's office for a book of monologues I came across an old battered version of Streetcar and pocketed it, thinking it looked 'interesting'.
I think it is this confusing feeling I recieved regarding the main character that interested me, and I find the majority of her dialogue simply marvellous to read.
I love Tennessee Williams plays. I first discovered him whilst studying at university and although I never read a full play I enjoyed his work and his insight into humanity. I found this whilst unpacking my books and decided to read it. Out of the three my favourite was the glass menagerie...I think everyone has a laura in them....where they feel down on themselves to have their hopes raised only for them to be taken away again. I'm looking forward to rereading cat on a hot tin roof and maybe try another play or even see another in the theatre.
Plays are meant to be brought to life in a theatre and reading them is usually a second rate experience. But not these plays. TR could have written them as novels; he chose the language of the stage to reveal everything he knew about the fragile little birds of this world. Pure poignancy.
Some really great plays. My favourite was probably Sweet Bird of Youth.
These were just painfully beautiful. My favourite of them all was 'Sweet Bird of Youth' - some of the lines in there just cut me, they were so intense. I recommend these to absolutely everybody.
Cały zbiór i tłumaczenie to jakaś totalna miazga. A klimat w "Nocy Iguany" jest tak genialny, że choćby za to należy się maks.
The staircase excellent.
I decided that nothing HE had written or would write would be some of the best literature written.
The movie embellished the characteristics of the different styles of the time gathering the Best Actress for Vivian Leith.
Kim Hunter, of Planet of the Apes, received Best Supporting Actress.
The book was excellent as was the movie.
However, this was the best TW novel to date and if you did not like his writing them watch the movie then re-read the novel or read the novel for the first time.....DEHS
I'd never read Williams or seen any movie versions of his plays but holy socks knocked off, what a trip. He is deserving of his greatest American playwright title. I swear I could have saved half the lines as favorite quotes. Each of these is full of suffering, manipulation, passion, violence, turmoil. I loved that every character is seriously flawed or in some way unlikable and that the endings aren't uplifting. What a master at evoking emotion. Yowza. I need a walk and a rom-com.
"Quando algo nos persegue na nossa memória ou na nossa imaginação, as leis do silêncio são inúteis, é como fechar uma porta à chave numa casa em chamas na esperança de nos esquecermos que ela está a arder. Mas fugir do incêndio não o apaga. O silêncio em relação a uma coisa só lhe aumenta o tamanho. Cresce e apodrece em silêncio, torna-se maligna..." ("Gata em Telhado de Zinco Quente")
Stella, Stella, Stella – a classic and great entertainment set in a bygone time and place.
I watched the movie a few years ago, and I know how confusing it can be watching the play listening to that heavy NewYork accent, so many things can go over your head.
For that, to make it easier for myself I heard it as an audiobook, and read it at the same time.
But, the audiobook was so terrible, I don't know why I got it...
it was so terrible!
I knew that I would like the play anyway, and I like it a lot.
It was funny, sad, terrible, and meaningful.
I've seen the play twice and that scene several times and it never fails to grab me, one of the finest scenes in drama (that unfortunately comes in the middle of a drab and dreary play).Equally interesting, for me as a drama dork, is the concept Williams presents and that shows in the stage directions, a thin screen with projections on it, subheadings for each scene, and little images that match the vinette.
A Streetcar Named Desire is much the same way albeit without the urgency, while The Glass Menagerie is its own breed and, though it is Tennessee Williams through and through, is one of the most unique plays I’ve read or seen in awhile.
What makes these plays so powerful, however, is how they ensnare the emotions of the reader in their trap, whether it’s the urgency in Sweet Bird of Youth, the incredulousness in A Streetcar Named Desire or the unsure pity of the characters in The Glass Menagerie.
As a pair, they work - Tom in a practical sense supporting the family and filling the shoes of a father who had left them years before to follow his own passions, and Laura from an emotional perspective by constantly placating her mother whilst playing the role of victim that her mother has lumbered her with and this, along with being left alone by her husband, has allowed Amanda to martyr herself.
Like many high schoolers, I read the Glass Menagerie for English class, and other than seeing a few Williams' one-acts staged several years ago, that was my sole experience with his work until I read Streetcar.
I read this solely over a series of train rides (treating the breaks in reading as my intermissions), and found that I quite enjoyed this play.
I didn't realize until I was about a third of the way through it that Blanche is really the main character of this play, and it's the unfolding of her story that drives the plot.
SWEET BIRD OF YOUTH ***PRINCESS: I guess there's a clock in every room people live in.
.CHANCE: It goes tick-tick, it's quieter than your heart-beat, but it's slow dynamite, a gradualexplosion, blasting the world we lived in to burnt-out pieces.
. Time--who could beat it, whocould defeat it ever?
Maybe some saints and heroes, but not Chance Wayne.
I lived onsomething, that--time?PRINCESS: Yes, time.CHANCE: .
. [...]CHANCE [rising and advancing to the forestage]: I don't ask for your pity, but just for yourunderstanding--not even that--no.
Just for your recognition of me in you, and the enemy, time,in us all.
I read The Glass Menagerie and Sweet Bird of Youth two years ago, Liked the first one - which contains a very good scene near the end - and disliked the second.My review on A Streetcar Named Desire is here I don't know why i don't like Tennessee Williams so much although i appreciate his plays' ideas, respect his imagination and the intensity of most of his characters. Maybe it's the language which is the most weakest point of his plays, You may like it spoken in theatre or in a movie but not re
I read The Glass Menagerie and Sweet Bird of Youth two years ago, Liked the first one - which contains a very good scene near the end - and disliked the second.My review on A Streetcar Named Desire is here
  I don't know why i don't like Tennessee Williams so much although i appreciate his plays' ideas, respect his imagination and the intensity of most of his characters. Maybe it's the language which is the most weakest point of his plays, You may like it spoken in theatre or in a movie but not read.
“A Streetcar Named Desire” is an excellent introduction to the plays and literature of Tennessee Williams. The story takes place in a poor section of New Orleans and portrays a dysfunctional marriage between a brutish man, his pregnant wife, and her sister who arrives unannounced (and with a sordid background). The story symbolizes the demise of the old South (the lost sister’s antebellum plantation home), and the rise of a more ruthless southerner. This is a dark, troubling play that leaves the reader with a deepening sense of despair. It won Williams the 1947 Pulitzer Prize for literature.
The streetcar named desire is incredible. My favourite character will always be poor Blanche. Her horroor when she meets Stanley or the end, when both her sister and Stanley betray her and imprison her in a nut-house. I've also read the glass menagerie by Tennessee and was thrilled. Many dare say that The street car named desire is better than the glass menagerie but I think they are equal in literary quality. Perhaps the author themmes however, are too similar in all of his plays which make them harder to judge.
Four stars for "Sweet Bird of Youth" and "The Glass Menagerie" but I would give 3 to "Streetcar". I was disappointed with the highlight play - maybe because of all the hype. I was definitely excited when I got to the classic "Stella!" scene. Tennessee Williams is a little too dark and tragic for me, but I can see why he was a celebrated and noted playwright. You could feel the settings and ambiences he created.
