https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3388.Corelli_s_Mandolin
“Love itself is what is left over when being in love has burned away.” —Doctor Iannis.Απαπα! Why, oh why did I wait twenty years to read this enchanting novel?Being something of a contrarian, I didn’t succumb to the rampant Corellimania that existed after this novel’s release in 1994. I’m so pleased that I have now righted this wrong.Bernières serves up a Greek wartime love story that is as multi-layered as a Sunday moussaka.Set on the Ionian island of Cephalonia during Italian and German WWII

The characters are exquisitely drawn with humor and humanity.
The plot, centering on the Italian invasion of a remote Greek island in WWII, is a wonderfully engaging love story.
Unfortuntely, things don't stop there.
The second half of the book is drek.
It's as if the author completely lost interest in his characters, but felt obliged to carry them to some long-term conclusion.
It's a crying shame, because if this book had stopped where it should have, it would be one of the greatest books of the 20th (21st?) century.
The presence of--& intrepidly sudden breaks from--romantic conventions is what makes "Corelli's Mandolin" (alongside its romantic older brother, book two of his Latin American trilogy, the devastating love tale "Senor Vivo and the Coca Lord") one of the MOST ROMANTIC novels of ALL TIME.
My favorite of Louis de Bernieres (so far).I devoured Corelli's Mandolin like some bon vivant living in the 20th century.
Like a character in one of his novels, in fact.
I read it in the final days of the US election of 2016, and finished my review the day Donald J Trump was declared President Elect - a man whose candidacy was first treated as comedy, but now feels more like tragedy:More… (no plot spoilers).
German girls were technicians, Spanish girls uncontrollable and melodramatic, and French girls were so vain you had to pretend to be in love with them from the start.” (hide spoiler)]Enchanting Isle - Quotes“An island so immense in antiquity that the very rocks themselves exhale nostalgia and the red earth lies stupefied not only by the sun, but by the impossible weight of memory.”More… (no plot spoilers).
De Bernieres style falls between Vonnegut and Gabriel Garcia Marquez, and if that doesn't make your head spin and pants feel hot then I don't know what will. It's ridiculously European, in every good sense of the word. It's an epic romance for nihilists and atheists.The only two horrors come from the realization that the book is now out of print, and that it was already filmed with Nicolas Cage and Penelope Cruz. Satan's hand is everywhere unseen...
Lyrical. Took my breath away and broke my heart. Greece. War. Decency of soldiers. Indecency of war. Monsters. Humans. Where. Cats. Young girl's bed. Old woman's dream. Ending. And of course the Mandolin. Did I mention, Greece ? It is never too late. Love may get ole but if it is real then it's never forgotten nor forgiven. It can survive a war, it did and it survived them, in spite of each other. It survived the shuffle in the company of humans .
This is the first time I've ever given a book one star...I actually feel sort of bad doing it. Despite it being well-written, it's pacing was terrible, and I really had to fight to get through it. And then the ending -- oh the ending. After trudging through nearly 600 pages, the ending was about the most unsatisying I have ever read. I literally threw the book against the wall when I was done. And some idiot decided to make a movie out of it, with Nic Cage as Corelli? I can only imagine how awful it must have been.
Also Sputnik fell out from the list in its 2010 version.Set in the beautiful island of Cephallonia (now Kefalonia) in Greece during World War II, Louis de Bernieres' (British, born 1954) Captain Corelli's Mandolin, first published in 1993, sizzles with love, music and honesty.
Then Pelagia meets the mandolin-playing Italian captain, Corelli and falls love for him too.
Theirs is a forbidden love since Pelagia is still betrothed to Mandras and Corelli is an Italian whose country is at war with Greece and the Allies.
When the time comes that my own daughter falls in love with a man, I hope I'll have the same fortitude and maturity that Dr. Iannis has in that scene.
The islanders do everything they can to make life difficult for the Italians, forming a quiet sort of resistance group, and Pelagia does her bit by making life uncomfortable for Captain Corelli.
The odd-ball characters, like the strongman Megalo Velisarios or Father Arsenios the overweight priest?;is it the wonderful descriptions of the Greek Island of Cephalonia?; is it the love/hate relationship between Corelli and Pelagia?Louis de Bernieres has a wonderful style of writing, interspersing the main thread of the story with what seem at first sight to be unconnected anecdotes.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.I've had this book for years after accidentally stealing it from College (we were asked to pick two books on a table to take home over the Summer to read and I chose this and Catch-22, but when I returned the following term I was in a different class and simply forgot, about half a dozen times, to return them and subsequently have had it since) and have finally gotten around to reading it after starting and stopping it a few times.It is kind of a story of two halves, one concerning the Second World War occupation of the Greek island of Cephallonia and the other concerning the inhabitants of said island as they deal with the war, love and attempts at writing Greek histories.It is sublimely written in places: there were times when I was completely lost in the prose, especially when Beriniéres wrote about love in exactly the way I feel about it and not many authors have ever been able to convey before:“Love is a temporary madness, it erupts like volcanoes and then subsides.
It was a slow climb to build any momentum ( it took me ~85 pages to get into the book), and then I was in love with it, and then it plummeted downwards and eventually had me enthralled again , till the ending, where it left me happy but mad at the same time.The story of Pelagia and Antonio and the supporting characters was the story that I loved.
Luckily the last 100 pages or so drew me in again, or I could not reflect on it fondly.The author is a very accomplished writer, but his use of obscure "big" words annoyed me.
“O Captain! My Captain!” —Walt Whitman The sheer beauty and emotion that coats the pages of this book are breathtaking. I laughed, I cried, I fell in love, and my heart was broken. Eavesdropping on the horror of war, I found heroes in the unlikeliest places and, at the end, I wanted to hurl the book across the room!To evoke such passion is the true sign of a great writer. The setting is the Greek island of Cephalonia, and life is relaxed. As I became invested, the monster of WWII rips its way t
Eavesdropping on the horror of war, I found heroes in the unlikeliest places and, at the end, I wanted to hurl the book across the room!To evoke such passion is the true sign of a great writer.
I felt the horror of war, the strength of those left at home and the bravery of men on the front line.
Even in the despair of battle, love and compassion can be found.
The plot followed several key players as their lives unfold and, at the risk of giving too much away, I will merely urge you to read Captain Corelli’s Mandolin.
Would you think less of me if I said I loved this book?
Will you defriend me and publicly mock me if I said it made me cry a little bit?
Maybe I loved it because really this story is not a story with a happy ending.
This book symbolises the waste of time, the waste of life and love and a missed opportunity for happiness which can be created by one decision or chance event.
Maybe that's all life is...
a series of missed chances.
Did you take your chance when you saw it coming?
Add a mandolin-playing Italian Captain (as suggested by the title) and the story promises music and romance.
Corelli's Mandolin tells a devastating WWII story of Cephallonia being pillaged and despoiled during the occupation by, first the Italian, then the German armies, and finally their own guerilla fighters.
Evil befalls each of these characters and I kept reading and hoping they would be spared.Of course, there is the romance between Captain Corelli and Pelagia.
Ironically, it is the war that first installs Corelli in Dr. Iannis’s house as a billeted captain who eventually falls in love with Pelagia.
This book is spectacular. There were whole sections that I read over and over because they were so beautifully written and even one particular chapter that I made my whole family read - and even though none of them are readers they all thought it was fantastic!! I can honestly say I have never read a book that could move between genres so easily, with comedey and tragedy completely interwoven. Read it Read it!!!
This is Benito Mussolini, one-time Fascist dictator of Italy and streetlight ornament of the same: And this is Mussolini talking.Unless you understand Italian, you have no idea what he's saying. But I bet, even without the historical context, you understand that he's a major asshole. Just look at the body language.In a way, Louis de Bernières is a lot like that, a little in love with himself. His authorial blurb tells of his many manly adventures. He holds an advanced degree, but is desperate to
And this is Mussolini talking.Unless you understand Italian, you have no idea what he's saying.
Just look at the body language.In a way, Louis de Bernières is a lot like that, a little in love with himself.
At times, the first 150 pages read like a guy going through a thesaurus.
I would provide an example, but I donated my copy to the local library.One also gets the sense that he favors the equatorial lifestyle to the exclusion of all others.
I have no problem with this (I, myself, prefer said lifestyle), but always casting the natives and Italians in a favorable light and never the Germans?
Imbued with a mythic weight and a delightful tragicomic lightness, Louis de Bernieres' Corelli's Mandolin bursts with tenderness and wit.
Corelli's Mandolin is not in the least a simple love story.
It is a portrait of a fiercely proud and independent little community rebelling in what small ways it can.
While I love history and historical novels somewhere in the middle of the book I got slightly irate getting though sections of descriptions of war maneuvers when I really wanted to know more about other characters.
Still by the end I was grateful to Bernieres for the history of which I discovered I knew so little.
They meet, they fall in love, and then they don't see each other for thirty years until they are magically reunited and realize they were intended to spend their whole lives together but somehow misread the instructions on the box. Don't you just hate it when that happens?
What a beautifully written book!
I wept; I laughed out loud; I was furious; I was anxious and worried; I gasped in horror; I smiled secret smiles; I rejoiced; I LOVED.
All the characters, even the minor ones, come to life.
I did think a few chapters could have been edited, as they didn't serve the plot (but DID provide background history of WW II), and I found the ending unsatisfactory.
I read it first in March 2001, and then recommended it to one of my book clubs and re-read it in Oct 2001.
BTW - The movie was absolutely horrible.
Forget the movie!
READ the book!
The new History of Cephallonia is proving to be a difficult project because Dr. Iannis cannot seem to write it without "the intrusion of his own feelings and prejudices." "This island betrays its own people in the mere act of existing," Dr. Iannis writes, at the historical moment when Greece is about to be invaded by Italy and dragged unwillingly into the war.
My daughter (19) also read this book while we were on holiday in Kefalonia, and much of the history it recounts was completely unknown to her.
This is a meaty, sweeping, witty, and romantic story about one of the more literarily-neglected corners of World War II, the involvement of Italy and Greece and the occupation by the former of the latter.The action centers on the Greek island of Cephalonia, where the village doctor, Iannis, tends to the ailments of the locals and raises his beautiful and intelligent daughter, Pelagia.
The settings are brilliantly described, the horrors of war and terror not whitewashed, yet the story has an overall feeling of goodness and romantic glow about it.
I've read several books by Bernieres and Corelli's Mandolin is one my favorites.
Bernieres's also written a crazy book that takes place in the Andes where this tribe takes peyote or some such drug and they start wandering all over the moutains and have wild dreams.
The book begins with a parody of Mussolini that made me laugh out loud.
The rest of the book follows Italian soldiers occupying a small Greek island during WWII.
The soldiers bond with their fellow Germans until Mussolini switches sides and suddenly they've got to put down their wine and bruscetta to have a quick battle.
Written with passion and incandescant humor, the novel recreates WWII-era Greece (and to a certain extent, the rest of Fascist-occupied Europe at that time) with striking beauty.
The characters are unforgettable and nearly all likeable; raw pathos, tragedy, comedy, and romance are fused into one gripping narrative that defies classification.
It is, if anything, an effective composition of high Romance and a coming-of-age story: two classic stories in one.
The overall impression of the book is that of a touching, highly entertaining story written by one with a deep love of the people and places.
Corelli's Mandolin: A Novel is among my highest-recommended book.
Sublime.
It took me quite awhile to finish this unusual novel, not because it failed to hold my interest, but because it felt so strange to be reading a story about an old catastrophe while living through brand new interesting times...the daily news has been most distracting.
Louis de Bernieres weaves history and local folklore together in this touching story that centers around Pelagia, a young Greek woman who falls in love with Captain Corelli, a member of the occupying army.
Pelagia's father, Dr. Iannis, is a fascinating character, and the wisdom he passes on to his daughter are among the most profound words I've ever read in a novel.
easily one of the best books i've ever read...so good, i'm reading it again, even though i just did.
An American artist - one of many that passed through our lives - left me her doggy, much-read copy of Captain Corelli's Mandolin, exhorting me to read it; it was `incredible, unbelievable, the greatest book she'd ever read'.
I left that copy with my friend, who's never managed to get through it either.A few more years passed and I saw it in a jumble sale, the spine unbroken, apparently unread.
It could all have been broken down to a chapter or two and the book would have been greatly enhanced by that because it seems to me that LdB had pretty much lost the will to live by then.And then we reach the ending which was pants.
The story begins in 1940 in Ceppalonia Greece, a small island described by Dr. Iannis as being full of magic and light.
He usurps the home of Dr. Iannis as his headquarters and gradually falls in love with Pelagia, the doctor's daughter and only child.
Their love story forms the main plot but their are several subplots that engage the reader and blend together to form a type of crazy quilt, one that works even though, at first glance, seem not to quite match up.
One of my favorite quotations is this advice the widowed Dr. Iannis gives to his daughter: "When you fall in love, it is a temporary madness.
I love how much it made me laugh.
;)Funny story: My friend, Anke, who is German, was in town when the movie came out and we were trying to decide what to go see and she stated that she liked Nicholas Cage, so we opted for that.
I had completely forgotten that this book is not at all kind to the Germans (justifiably).
While the movie was awful, it was not made any better by my extreme discomfort at basically bringing up a major blight on my very good and kind friend's national history for two hours.
The light humor keeps the story moving all the while educating the reader about Cephallonian culture.I was engaged from the first chapter when Dr. Iannis removes a petrified pea from old man Stamatis's ear!
Its not much later that Stematis returns wanting the pea put back in his ear so he will have an excuse to not listen to his wife...
From Psipsima, the marten, Lemoni, a child, Pelagia, the doctor's daughter and Corelli's love interest, Dr. Iannies (he of the pea removal), Carlo,...all are colorful vibrant characters.This book enamored me so much that I will be reading de Bernieres' Birds Without Wings sooner rather than later.4.25 stars
