https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/514625.The_Ballad_of_Peckham_Rye
Though this is sharp social satire, I don’t think it will stick with me long. A trickster/shapeshifter (perhaps)/con-man/devil? (knowing Spark, that’s very likely)/Pan-figure comes to town and chaos/changes ensue. Would these things have happened anyway? Maybe not; but maybe so, as Spark is clear in her belief that evil is always afoot, that (as we see through the character of the gray-haired, pontificating Nelly) we must be vigilant against lies and deceit. Are the forthright characters the ones who dislike the charlatan, who see through him? Not necessarily.
The art of the impeccably constructed comedy, lean and mean from scene to spleen, is Muriel’s MO. This one concerns a sharp-tongued Scot who invades Lyon’s Corner House-era Peckham and upsets the apple cart with his multiple machinations. Spark’s perfect ear and skill at crafting a knockabout romp is on a par with Mr. Queneau and this short novel induces in this reader a state of toe-tingling rapture.
It is part fable with a spot of magic realism, a dash of humour, some nice twists and clever observations of life in the early 1960s.
Dougal has one shoulder higher than the other and has a bump on either side of his head, under his hair; he tells people that they were horns that he has had removed.
Dougal is a shadowy figure, pan like, causing mischief, playing on foibles.
An unusual social satire with some snappy dialogue and delicious come uppances; a sharp dissection of British life in the early sixties.
All I can say is that this totally confused me. Sure, I understand what happened, but I have no idea what the book is saying. A man wreaks havoc in the lives of many.Without humor, or if it was there it went over my head!Spark's lines said nothing to me; I usually find them so clever. This is the first book by Muriel Spark that has totally failed me.The audiobook narration by Nadia May / Wanda McCaddon was fine, but did not improve the book for me.
I appreciated how much Spark was able to convey about daily life, aspirations, class restrictions, postwar capitalism, and universal human frailty when so much of the book was basically brief dialogue exchanges.
A distinctive character named Dougal Douglas (yes, he’s a Scot) turns up in this south London largely working class suburb and much of the book is simply how he interacts with the locals and what influence he has upon them.
The author manipulated my emotion in a masterful way, starting lightly then building, and as I drew nearer the ending I increasingly admired both the style and the complexity of the message.
«Vuoi tu prendere questa donna come tua legittima sposa?».«No,» rispose Humphrey «francamente no».L'aggettivo più indicato per questo libro potrebbe essere: bizzarro.Muriel Spark imbastisce una commedia ricca di humor inglese ambientandola nella Londra degli anni '60, una Londra industrializzata e sempre più attenta alla situazione degli impiegati.
Aggirandosi guardingo fra impiegati e operai, intesse relazioni e mette zizzania, irretisce segretarie e scopre sotterfugi, cerca di guadagnarsi un posto più in alto nella ditta e nel frattempo si fa assumere da una industria concorrente, lasciando così un segno indelebile del suo breve passaggio in tutta Peckham Rye.La commedia della Spark, che inizia in maniera tradizionale, viene sconvolta da un personaggio sopra le righe, impossibile da decifrare anche per il lettore: sinistro, a tratti quasi perverso, pronto a calunniare e a mentire per i suoi misteriosi scopi — che sia forse l'incarnazione stessa del demonio?
As usual, Muriel Spark was enough over my head that I finished this highly comic novel and was not quite sure what I had just read.Peckham Rye is a small town outside London and the setting for all kinds of poking fun at members of the English lower middle class.
Lots of illicit sex going on, gossip and rumor of course.When Dougal Douglas comes to town and insinuates himself into two rival companies as a "human research" man, ostensibly to improve productivity and thereby profits, he upsets many fixed conditions.
Dougal Douglas does his human research, looking for the fatal flaw in each subject.
I don't like Muriel Spark. She's not really on my side. I feel that she hates us all for the dreadful time we're having (fair enough) but she is convinced that it's our fault. And so she sneers at us and it isn't very attractive.A couple of the best sneers:"She said, 'I feel as if I've been twenty years married instead of two hours.'He thought this a pity for a girl of eighteen.""'God!' she said. 'Dougal, I've had a rotten life.''And it isn't over yet,' Dougal said,"
A wickedly funny and odd little book, hard to know how to read it. A clue is in the title: The Ballad... The character of Dougal Douglas or Douglas Dougal, is the quintessential "stranger who comes to town" and leaves many maimed in his wake. Is he the devil incarnate? perhaps. Is Dame Muriel Spark a devilishly good writer, always surprising, nudging her characters and the reader off balance...? Yes, indeed.
I started this with high hopes, initially enjoying the writing style and story, but as the book progressed I found it less and less well written, and despised almost all of the characters. The shocking climax of the book happens on the last few pages, and it's utterly ridiculous. Not a good initial introduction to Muriel Spark.
The good working-class citizens of Peckham Rye, a South London suburb where people speak with distaste of any need to "cross the river," don't know quite what to make of Dougal or his nubby horns.
Dougal takes this position at two competing firms, hence the name change, and sets about his "human research" that assures he seldom darkens either of his offices.
Instead he makes friends all over Peckham, which means, in effect, he sets about ruining several peoples' lives.When Spark published her novel in 1960, Peckham Rye was a shining example of British pettiness and tedium.
It seems to me like the residents of Peckham are very deeply flawed all on their own and just blame the new Scottish guy in town.
Granted Dougal is a jerk and "likes taking the piss" but this hardly seems to make him responsible for everyone else's choices.
Note that at the very beginning of the book Dixie even blames Dougal for Humphrey not being a germaphobe, but in fact, Dougal hates sickness."I feel as if I've been married 20 years instead of 2 hours." - DixieWell, I feel like I've been reading this book for 20 years instead of 2 days, so I can relate.
A Scottish man named Dougal Douglas arrives in the town of Peckham and gets two jobs working for rival textile factories as a consultant on the board of Human Resources to investigate and better understand the discontent amongst workers.
The wild story is all over the place and includes blackmail, violence and even murder but it's all pointless.It's almost as if Spark had a general idea of what she wanted to write about but couldn't figure out where to take the story, so instead of tossing it in the rough draft pile she decided to string a bunch of arbitrary plot threads together with the hope that utilizing ambiguity would somehow amount to something meaningful.
This short little book is an amusing vignette of south London life in the late 50s.
It feels more like an episode than a rounded story, even though it has a clear narrative arc.
The style is pared down but engaging and somehow infuses the story with energy and momentum.
I don't live far from this area of London and the fact that it was set there is what attracted me to the book in the first place.
However, I sadly didn't get much of a sense of the it, which, in the 50s would have been quite different from modern day Peckham.
This one can only be described as "wickedly funny" - and that phrase has perhaps never been more apt. A young man arrives in a little London suburb, and through his charm and wit (and perhaps demonic abilities?), he sets the sleepy little burg into a tizzy. It is wicked, it is funny, I'm so glad I'm reading Spark finally.
I read to page 100 and decided that it was remarkably like a Muriel Spark novel.
Coincidence?
I think not.
What I mean to say is that it's shrewd, sly, and wickedly humorous without being malicious.
Nevertheless, I found myself really struggling to finish, maybe because it's not a plot-driven book and I feel like I get the general Muriel Spark gist at this point.
And now I don't have anything to read for fun, and Rock of Love is available on Netflix Watch Instantly.
So, for the love of my residual literacy (and dwindling IQ), please recommend books!
After reading Memento Mori and loving every part of it, I was expecting this one to be as witty and as interesting as the aforementioned. I was wrong. There was really nothing at all that interested me in The Ballad of Peckham Rye, I didn't find it humorous and I didn't care for the characters' fate. On the whole, this novel had an attractive plot summary, which, in my opinion, could have been executed a lot better, but it didn't blow me away.
spigolosa ballata satirica su un giovane ineffabile e dai tratti diabolici che andrà a sconvolgere l'equilibrio di un quartiere operaio londinese. questo libro di muriel spark trasuda humor nero nel raccontare le avventure di dougal douglas e le sue manipolazioni ai danni delle persone che incontra; non sempre la vena macabra funziona e l'ironia non graffia come dovrebbe- ma nel complesso una lettura piacevole che si sofferma sui meccanismi della fabbrica e sulla società inglese.
This book fits in the fine English tradition of “novels about young men who behave badly and get away with it for a while.” Examples of this genre include Barry Lyndon and The Adventures of Roderick Random.
I didn’t particularly enjoy either of those two books, but I liked The Ballad of Peckham Rye. I can think of two reasons off the top of my head: 1) It’s much shorter (The Adventures of Roderick Random was a chore) and 2) It’s written by a woman.
It’s also much funnier than either of the other two books, probably because Spark is closer in time, and therefore her humor is more relevant.
Douglal Douglas arrives in Peckham and takes a job as an Arts Man which allows him to do what he likes which is mostly mischief.
He is Scottish with a deformed shoulder and proceeds to cause disruption in the mundane lives of everyone he meets.
The story is told in flashback after Humphrey walks out of his wedding with Dixie.
The story is about sexual honesty and hypocrisy set in the 1950s.
An intriguing novel that left me wondering whether he was a Pan like creature or just someone who rebelled by causing disharmony.
I enjoyed this quite a lot, although the back cover blurb implied quite a different story than the one Spark enjoyed rolling out here. The way Dougal turns everyone's lives upside down simply by being curious, quirky, and interested in people was comical, and here as in the other Spark novels I've read, she seems to take great pleasure in gently disliking everyone she creates.Read after Barbara Comyns as Spark was an 'others also enjoyed' recommendation, and the styles were quite similar enough to be satisfying.
3.5 Loved her writing style, I will read more of her work, one day.
The Ballad of Peckham Rye by Muriel Spark - Very GoodDougal Douglas (or Douglas Dougal as he sometimes calls himself) has come to Peckham to join a factory, in Personnel, as 'the arts man' - the new thinking of the time is that there should be one.
It amuses him, and the reader, to watch as things fall apart around him.Dougal Douglas (or Douglas Dougal as he sometimes calls himself) has come to Peckham to join a factory, in Personnel, as 'the arts man' - the new thinking of the time is that there should be one.
Stirring up discontent at work and in peoples lives.
Stirring up discontent at work and in peoples lives.
Still there is a lot that is interesting about this slight novel and in the central character of Dougal Douglas Spark has created a memorable – if not entirely likeable – character.Spark creates the feeling of the ballad of the title in the opening chapter – in which we are introduced to Dixie and her fiancé Humphrey Place.
One of them said that it would be impossible to combine a traditional ballad with kitchen sink realism.
At that point Muriel Spark said that she'd do it.
That’s my best guess for the origin of The Ballad of Peckham Rye. The result isn’t pretty, but I’m surprised that it was done at all.There’s much about it that confuses me.
And for all Douglas’s ballad-like mischief, most of the rough blue-collar residents of Peckham Rye come through with barely a scratch.
It trivializes the ballad part and that may have been the point.Finally, I gave up trying to understand the novel and just enjoyed it.
Undoubtedly he’s a fun character, one whose unpredictability charms and disturbs those he meets, but I’m not sure Spark clearly works out what’s at the centre of him.
Quite at lot is made by the character himself of the horns he had removed from his head when he was a child, but I’m not sure it really leads anywhere.
He’s another outsider who proclaims his genius, but one who is lot less socially integrated than Dougal and so still appears a strange and unique character.
Dougal Douglas, I’m afraid, in 2011, has lost a lot of his USP.The last third of the book turns oddly threatening, with forays into gangs of hooligans, blackmail and murder.
His research' is negligible, but his machinations sow discord and destruction throughout the town.'The Ballad of Peckham Rye' is full of what I'm coming to think of as Sparkian traits: darting, almost slashing, glances into people's lives; gentle mocking of modern notions (here the need to bring an 'Arts man' into industry, and the emergence of 'Human Resources'); a story that is full of leads that are then blocked off (here, Douglas's off-screen ex-lover, and even his real reason for coming to Peckham at all).This book doesn't have as much humour as 'Memento Mori', or the compelling thriller-ness of 'The Driver's Seat'.
And then the classic descriptive paragraphs like this one, which captures Douglas's dark attraction for the poor people of Peckham Rye:Mr Druce had formerly been blond, he was of large build.
It brings to life all the quirks and foibles of its "upper-working, or perhaps lower-middle" characters in an almost loving satire, that had me oscillating between nodding in recognition, splitting my sides with laughter, crying (at a couple of instances with genuinely powerful emotional heft - without revealing details, there is a scene where a character confides to her boarder that she recently came across a man she suspects to be her long-lost brother, and the story is total M.
Anyhow, I could say more, but I think I will leave it here for now and just say that this is an enormously enjoyably witty little book, and comes highly recommended.
This is my second time reading but I remembered nothing from the first.
I read it because I was going to Peckham, but the colourful multicultural Peckham I saw in July 2015 was nothing like the drab one depicted in this novel.
The story follows Scotsman Donal Douglas who works as an 'arts man' (time and motion) in a textile factory.
he has a crooked shoulder and 'young white teeth' He likes to dance and caper and his devilish ways make him irresistible to some of the characters he encounters, the rest he antagonises.
The language and texture of the 1950s gives it a black white and beige feel.

