https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/902715.Before_They_Are_Hanged
"We should forgive our enemies, but not before they are hanged" - Heinrich Heine Before They Are Hanged is Abercrombie's second entry into the twisted and grim world of The First Law. It follows on from the three story arcs that The Blade itself stylishly led towards.
Here we follow the action of "the worst-armed, worst-trained and worst-led army in the world" For one of the narratives arcs, three points of view presentations are followed, often within the same chapter switching between actions and opinions.
Most of Bayaz et al's scenes are travel based (the end of the world isn't close) so we are presented cool stories by the characters to pass the time at campfires.
A party of haters  Abercrombie certainly likes to give a dark twist on what could have been a conventional fantasy series.
These just aren't the sort of people that have friends, at least, not for very long.
It’s all about Glokta, the nastiest bastard in fantasy.Superior Glotka was once a hero.
It’s his job to torture.
Except on his mission he learns to torture people in another way; he manipulates them emotionally and forces them to aid in his hopeless defence of Dogoska whilst he tries to uncover who murdered his predecessor.
I think Abercrombie has earnt his reputation as King of grimdark fantasy.
sure, he can turn into a mass murdering psychopath when pressed, but my gosh, that doesn't happen too often!(2) an ex-slave who lives to destroy her former abusers.
reading about their journey was pure pleasure.
although i am confident more will come out of that journey.also pure pleasure: the continuing misadventures of the torturer Glotka.
Glotka remains a wonderful and unusual character.
sure these are all some bitter folks, but they barely even qualify as anti-heroes.
and the writing remains "muscular".
this was more than a good read, it was a wonderful experience and i am really stoked to see how it all turns out in the third book.
While Superior Glokta holds Dagoska against the Gurkish, Collum West endures untold hardship in the north in the companion of the Prince and Logen's six barbarian friends.
Meanwhile, Bayaz, Logen, Luthar, and Nessa head toward the edge of the world for something that should best be left buried...As Elizabeth said in her review of The Two Towers, middle books in a trilogy are tricky business.
More Glokta in the next book, please!
West pushing the Prince off the cliff was one of my favorite parts of the book.The ending was better than my highest expectations.
This dark sequel to The Blade Itself is everything I hoped it would be.
A great mix of epic and heroic, fantasy-heads can do far worse than giving this trilogy a spin.
The Blade Itself was very good, but it didn’t really go anywhere and left the reader somewhat mystified as to where the story was headed.
Here’s hoping Last Argument of Kings continues this run of good form and closes the trilogy in spectacular fashion.
The fun continues!!!I give a high rating due to its page turning storytelling, dark humour, fight/battle scenes, and characters. Especially characters! There are new interesting characters made first appearance on this book. (view spoiler)[For example Nicomo Cosca and Caul Shivers. They will have more important roles on Best Served Cold. You'll love Cosca although he is an unreliable drunkard. (hide spoiler)]But as book two of a trilogy serial, the plots are still far from finish. At least some
The fun continues!!!I give a high rating due to its page turning storytelling, dark humour, fight/battle scenes, and characters. Especially characters! There are new interesting characters made first appearance on this book. (view spoiler)[For example Nicomo Cosca and Caul Shivers. They will have more important roles on Best Served Cold. You'll love Cosca although he is an unreliable drunkard.  (hide spoiler)]But as book two of a trilogy serial, the plots are still far from finish. At least some questions/mysteries from book one are answered on this book.
So he plays his part of the game better than anyone else and proves that just because you are horribly crippled the mind is a dangerous thing and being smart will save your ass more than a solid sword arm.Logen and Ferro + the rest of the travelers (Bayaz, Jazel, Quai and Longfoot)
With all they went through to get where they were going I didn’t expect the outcome and can’t wait to see what the band of brothers + Ferro will do now.The Northmen and West
Thankfully, it was toned down somewhat from book one, which was torturous to read at times.Our story here picks up right where book one left off, and soon finds the cast split into three main groups.
Bottom line: There are so many threads left dangling here that it just begs you to jump right into the third and final book, but since I’ve already managed to hold out for two years between reading books one and two, I think I can resist the urge to wrap things just a tad bit longer.
This picks up where "TBI" left off, and carries the characters and plot away in new and unpredictable directions.
The fight scenes are top-notch, approaching the Bernard Cornwell-level of excellence.
Abercrombie keeps the story moving, but it is driven by the characters.
He never falls victim to the fantasy trap of privileging world-building over character and plot, or of using made-up words when perfectly good English ones will do (Stephen Erikson, I'm looking at you!).
I learned more about the social structure of the Union and the North, but it was through the characters and not through needless exposition.
'We should forgive our enemies, but not before they are hanged.'Heinrich Heine Sadly I didn’t enjoy this as much as I did the first book, not that it wasn’t good but I felt as if it was missing something vital. World building and WritingThe author didn’t disappoint in this aspect, the world building is superb. Same goes for the writing, third person multiple POV. 'The failure of something great is never a simple matter, but, where there is success and glory, there must also be failure and shame
Characters and PlotThe plot didn’t really progress much, more than half of the main characters(Logen, Jazel, Ferro, Bazel) are on a journey, it took 90% of the whole book before they reached where they were going, the whole journey was kind of boring, just few occurrences that was fun to read.
There was good character development for Jezal, Logen and Ferro, I think Bazel is one dimensional, there was no progress whatsoever in his character.
It was the part of Glokta my favourite character in the series that have a major progress in the whole book, I was always glad whenever it was his POV.
Glokta frowned.
Never have three ideas belonged together lessThis second book....dare I say was even better than the first.
It was and had every freaking thing I could possibly want in a book.
Glokta is my hero in every aspect of the word.
He's witty, raw and down right nasty...and I love him for itLogen, the deadly brute...that's *realistic about things* is hard not to love.
His personality is down right wonderful and love to see how he continues to grow and bring the group closer to each other.Jezal character did not fail in the least to have me laughing out loud throughout this Epic read.
Joe really shines when it comes to his characters, his writing and his style.
His characters are what makes the book so enjoyable, with lots of funny/cynical moments.
Joe’s style is unique, and that’s what I like in his books, he can write a great book without pulling off lots of sophisticated tricks (plot-wise).There’s more plot here in comparison to the first book (the first 30% was another exposition, though), and the book has a great ending, while Joe pulled-off an Abercrombie-trick from his hat (which is not the Butcher/Sanderson-trick), and with a moving scene afterwards.
There are three major plot-lines in here.The first one is a defense by Union forces of its northern territory against an invasion by barbarians united by a ruthless and cunning leader.
The high command of Union consists of scheming politicians who do not care about the outcome of the war except to advance their own ambitions.The second subplot is a defense by Union forces of its southern territory against an invasion of a mighty Empire united by a ruthless and cunning leader.
The second part of the trilogy “Before they are hanged” takes us into the wastelands of the old empire.
Glokta gets impossible and a suicide mission to save the city Dagoska from the attack off Gurhul Empire.
Meanwhile fueling the war with northerners, Major West went to fight with unprepared units and mutually antagonistic generals.
The only hope is supreme commander Burr that keeps them together.
One thing is certain, the leader of northerners Bethod is relentless and his enemies can only hope for death.
First of the Magi Bayaz led his small group, over the old empire that has all but not hospitable.
and when I say development it could be to the better, the worse or just to the batshit crazy, which I honestly haven't seen done that much before.Let me add that this book probably contains the single most hilarious sex scene I have ever read about *slo-mo claps* This book is such an amazing blend of brutal, gory, awkward, funny, dark, touching, sad, exhilarating, I wouldn't know where to start in my review..
Anyway, it may not be the best book to binge-read, but it's the best thing that happened to me during a stressful month (Petrik man, I owe you!
4.85 starsI like reading fantasies well enough but was never too keen on those being termed as High/Epic Fantasies considering them not my cuppa... or so I thought. I am glad to be wrong in this instance :)This series is well into my favourites/re-reads shelf. My only regret is that I took so many months to finish this one off, no fault of the book just my capricious infidelities towards books O.OP.S : Glokta (No more words needed)
Before They Are Hanged is a superb follow up series with fantastic characters devious plots and schemes and volatile action that does not stop until the very end!
Abercrombie has instantly become one of my favorite fantasy authors after I read the first book in this series,  The Blade Itself.
Finally the last arc is my favorite, as everything related to the devilishly fun character of  inquisitor Glokta.
Incredible characters full of tension and emotion, battle scenes of epic proportions and lots of humor and grimdark moments, make this book a must read!
In the second novel the characters scatter towards different sides of the world.Logen "You-have-to-be-realistic-about-this-things" Ninefingers, Jezal dan Luthar (he is growing on me more and more), Ferro Maljinn, Malacus Quai, Brother Longfoot and Bayaz the First of the Magi, embark on a mysterious quest leading them across the Old Empire to Edge of the World.
By half point I was pretty sure I would give a perfect five to the second book, but...To tell the truth the only story-line that kept me satisfied till the end was Glokta's.
خب، بریم سراغ ریویوD:قبل از هر چیزی باید بگم من چندان از ترجمهی جلد اول راضی نبودم که آقای سیمرغ توضیح دادن یکسری مشکل پیش اومده که دلیلِ اون اشتباهات بودن، حرفشون منطقی هم به نظر میرسه. این مشکلات خیلی زیاد پیش میان. خیلی خوشحال کنندهس که این جلد اشتباهاتش از انگشتهای یک دست هم کمتر بود و مترجم تونسته بود متن رو خیلی یکدست و خوب در بیاره. فکر کنم میشه گفت این مجموعه هم یکی از اون فانتزیحماسیهاییه که با ترجمهی خوب توی ایران چاپ شده. (بین اونایی که خوندم فقط ترجمهی اربابحلقهها و گروهان سیاه رو پس
فکر کنم می‌شه گفت این مجموعه‌ هم یکی از اون فانتزی‌حماسی‌هاییه که با ترجمه‌ی خوب توی ایران چاپ شده.
(بین اونایی که خوندم فقط ترجمه‌ی ارباب‌حلقه‌ها و گروهان سیاه رو پسندیدم.)و خودِ داستانD:این جلد بالاخره ابرکرومبی یکم دلش به حالت مخاطبش سوخت و توضیحات بیشتری داد، در مورد برادران ائوز، آدم‌خوارها، خالول، بیاز و...
اگه توی یه کتابی کاراکترهای اصلی نمیرن عجیب به نظر میاد.) حس کردم آخرای کتاب وقتی بالاخره دلش اومد و چندتایی از شخصیت‌هاشو کشت و زخمی کرد خیلی براش سخت بود و به طرز عجیبی اون قسمت‌ها احساسی شده بودن.
Volumul doi mi-a placut cel mai mult. A fost carte in care unele personaje bune devin rele, unele personaje rele devin bune; avem parte de actiune si violenta, dar si momente tandre; e familiar dar unic; iti creste asteptarile pentru ca deodata sa le darame, dar fara a te lasa frustrat sau confuz; e magic, dar realistic; este intunecat dar hilar; inteligent si abordabil; te tine treaz toata noaptea. Este o trilogie cu personaje foarte bine create, plotul se vede ca lipseste, dar chiar nici nu mai conta la un moment dat, atat eram de incantata de personaje.
He also has killed two men now, so that makes him a little more wise about battle and what it really means to take a life.Logen Ninefingers - I liked this character since the beginning of THE BLADE ITSELF, so I can't really say I've enjoyed watching him change and grow - he's a pretty Good Man, you know, except for being a merciless and brutal slaughterer of thousands.
I'm was so glad to see West finally grow a spine and save Cathil from that scumbag.It's also fair to note that I love how Abercrombie makes this play out.
Murder mysteries.""Allright, guess I'll already have my own Peter Falk.""Pardon me, sir?""Yeah, you know this Colombo guy I invented.
Missing teeth, walks slowly, always has another question...""Glokta?""That's him, what did I do with him?"You send him south.""Why would I do that?""It's the middle book, guess you wanted him to do something untill he's more important in book 3 again.""Makes sense, why did I write 3 books?""Money?""Sounds about right.
So murder mystery in the south it is with Glokta.
Where are they?""North.""Anyone near them?""West.""No, I know everybody is West, is someone North?""You had this character named West, sir.
I te kako.Abercrombie je uspeo da nadmasi sebe i napise jos bolji nastavak.Ako smo u prvom delu imali malo manje fantastike, ovde je i to ''ispravljeno''.
fantastiku ili komediju.Scene izmedju Logena i Fero su me dovodile bukvalno do suza (od smejanja).Likovi su jos vise razradjeni, i kako ih i mi sada odlicno poznajemo, tako se i oni medju sobom vrlo dobro poznaju.
Pregrst akcije na sve moguce nacine.Ovo je jedna od retkih retkih knjiga gde mi cesto ponavljanje nekih hmm, izraza nije uopste smetalo.
Middle books in trilogies are often pretty average.
Several separate story lines run parallel throughout the book and each one features strong characters so I never minded switching back from one to another.
Having said that Superior Glokta has to be one of the best characters ever written.
Despite the fact that he is deformed, merciless and totally evil he makes some of the most entertaining comments and you just have to like him!
He probably helped make Glokta what he was for me.
Let me just say if you like this genre then read this trilogy.
Not delving into similarities and differences too much, in my humble opinion and only having read two of Abercrombies' books so far, these two are the best epic fantasy series ever.
There is one massive difference though, while Martin creates this beautiful, enormous, diverse world through his wast amount of characters and his story, Abercrombie does it the other way around.
In a lot of books in my reading history writer would get you to the battle and then simply skip to the aftermath not feeling comfortable tackling the fight scenes.
Za nekog ko ne čita epsku fantastiku WOW!
I like Logen Ninefingers, I like Jezal, I like how much their characters were grown and developed in this book, but Bayaz's whole quests just seems so vague.There is no information on how he supposedly knows that this magical item is needed and so the motivations for the characters following him is lacking.The other two storylines, I enjoyed very much.Sand dan Glokta is probably my favorite character of this series and I would argue one of the best written.
BTAH continues to follow the troop of reluctant heroes, including Ninefingers, Jezel, Bayaz and Ferro; Inquisitor Glokta, defending a besieged city and hunting for a traitor; and Colonel West working to defend Angland against the Northman, along with a small band of Northmen with grudges of their own.
Letter updates between Glokta and the Arch Lector are an interesting way of updating the story.The tale is full of detailed fight scenes.
More love and romance with Glokta(he continues to be the most interesting character in the story.
The story has no easily guessed ending, it's harsh, tough and cruel, but with a ray of hope and happiness.
A rough-tough place to call home.And of course some quotes that really hooked me up., though not a flood of them as in "The Blade Itself".So we begin the journey with a harsh character—Dogman and watch his growth to become a leader.
We could see that he will change from "The Blade Itself", there were some hints about his harshness.
But it makes a good story, not long-boring-hard-to-follow.
And boy oh boy, is there some character development in this book.Another thing, he writes action/fighty-fight scenes the way Charles Bukowski writes filth: he makes it transcendentally beautiful.
Once in a while, because I suspect I'm half-retarded, I will read a character's dialogue out loud, all under-my-breath-like, to see if it sounds like the way a person actually speaks, with throat vibrations instead of text, ya know.
Joe's characters never fail to not only sound like people, but people so, so much cooler than I am.In closing: if you haven't yet, go read the first fucking book, then this fucking book, and then the last fucking book.
