https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68497.The_Scar
Say goodbye to the festering filth of New Crobuzon! Welcome to a floating pirate city chock-full of mysteries, lies, betrayals, photophobic haemophages, and merciless manipulation.  Now, where do I apply for its citizenship??? A pirate city is every child's dream. Including, apparently, my own inner child, desperately in need of inner babysitter.Before I say anything else in my review, I want to confess - I absolutely, wholeheartedly loved Armada. I loved its tolerance, its camaraderie, its stub
The titular Scar has many meanings, multilayered just like Miéville's prose and storytelling.
Scars become the symbols of fight, survival, love, unity, pain, remembrance, and healing.
That's why I instantly loved Armada - for dispensing away with the cruelty, for accepting them and admitting what New Crobuzon denies - that they are who they are, with rights and possibilities, with chance for love and respect and life.
[...] His feelings welled out and bled together (their festering ceased) and they began to resolve, to heal in a new form, to scar.” 
Much like any good fantasy, The Scar is less about Miéville's lunatic world and more about the way people struggle and adapt and somehow survive.
His honesty about the human condition lends a very real edge to the story- it would be hard to accuse him of shying away from difficult topics or showing his readers (or his characters) any undue kindness.All of the things that make The Scar interesting are things that could cause other books to fail entirely.
The fact that Miéville has managed to put them together into such an incredibly good read makes him one of the most exciting writers I've come across in a long time, and a refreshing addition to the genre.
If we're going to get into the New Weird, then let's at least have the right characters available to make the fractal flower bloom, right?Best parts include the changing perception of the Armada, from unfortunate press-gangers to a free and awesome society of truly epic minds and goals.
Just like the first book in the series, Perdido Street Station, the city is a deep and revolving character in it's own right, changing, at least in its inhabitant's perceptions, into something complex and multi-layered and and not only flawed, but almost heroic.
The novel is as rich in detail as it is in awesome description, interesting characters, and great payoffs.
The Bas-Lag series is truly serious in its creativity, so READER BEWARE.):)
China Miéville’s “The Scar” is set on the vast floating pirate city of ‘Armada’, among mosquito-people, walking cacti, criminals punished by being surgically ‘Remade,’ and a fine cast of monsters, from the murderous “Grindylow”, to the incomprehensible “Avanc”.
Her ship is attacked by pirates and subsumed into a vast flotilla, a floating city named Armada.
Her initially lack of self-confidence in relationships with other characters become complicated by sex and betrayal.Panoramic and stunningly inventive, “The Scar” is astonishing in the vastness of outer space books to read.
There is a very interesting plot, and many memorable and colorful characters, some fun twists and a unique steam punk setting flowing from the world building of the earlier Perdido Street Station, some political and social metaphors and a socialist sub-text, but make no mistake, what fills the sails of this very enjoyable book is Armada, a floating amalgam of pirated vessels.
So once again, Mièville presents us with a complex, politically grey, ambiguous scenario.I agree that totalitarianism (as represented by New Crobuzon) is undesirable, but I'm not so sure that imperialism always is 100% bad (The Chinese and Roman empires brought a lot of benefits to its citizens, for instance - most of the time, that is, when the rulers weren't going crazy), and I'm known to be pretty much anti-anarchist, depending on what your definitions are.
From here she is drawn into machinations that could make Armada a serious world power, and into the dangerous and supernatural factions that compete for power in the floating city.I don't want to give too much away so won't elaborate much more about the plot, but suffice to say this book is an absolute frenzy of awesome ideas and I was continually gobsmacked at the breadth and depth of China Mieville's imagination.
Every element of the story, from the vast floating pirate city of Armada, to the unique creatures of Bas-Lag (lobster/human hybrid 'crays' for example), to the steampunk techno-magick that drives Mieville's world is seamlessly slotted into a vast and detailed story that I did not want to leave.
Still, I will tip my hat to Miéville for doing what I think he is doing here: writing an anti-epic.(view spoiler)[ Here's why I think of it that way: The big pay-off at the end is all fizzle.
The other big pay-off, Beliss's attempt to return to New Crobuzon, is achieved but we do not get to see it happen.
The efforts to warn New Crobuzon about a grindylow attack?
The attack on the Armada by New Crobuzon?
Miéville has created an entire work centred on a hero who tries to achieve something but consistently fails.
Not only that, but each time her efforts turn out to be entirely deluded.
And there are a lot more monstrosities and curios in the offering.GrindylowThe story follow Bellis Coldwine, escaping New Crobuzon in the aftermath of the events in Perdido Street Station.
I would probably have enjoyed this book more if I had read it before Perdido Street Station (which remains my Mieville favourite so far).
But for me, just like Bellis Coldwine, I wanted to go back to the dirty streets New Crobuzon - Armada just couldn't compete.I'm giving this....3.5 StarsPS: I couldn't resist using "puissant" in my review seeing that it appears to be Mieville's favourite word this book.
It’s a place where a man like Tanner Sack, medically altered into something inhuman and imprisoned aboard a slave ship bound for a new world, can breathe free.
It’s a place where a young maid and a boy from a misogynistic village can join and become the most charismatic leader The Armada has ever known.And then there’s Bellis Coldwine, standing out in sharp definition against all the blur.
Like The Armada itself, this motley assortment of prose somehow bridges together and reforms into a sweeping, effortless picture.And here’s the thing I love the most about this book: that picture, that story, with all of its suspense and catharsis and death, was just a beginning.
On my list of "All Time Favorite" Novels.
This is the second China Miéville novel I have read (the other being Perdido Street Station) and both that book and this one are on my all time favorite novel list.
The world of "Bas-lag" created by Mieville, of which New Crobuzon is its most famous city, is in my opinion as imaginative and richly detailed a world as I have ever read about.
This is about the highest praise I can think to bestow as those other works have few peers in the realm of world building.
Dick Award For Best NovelNominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel
“For every action, there's an infinity of outcomes." "Countless trillions are possible, many milliards are likely, millions might be considered probable, several occur as possibilities to us as observers - and one comes true.” - China Miéville, 'The Scar'At some point there was an infinite number of possibilitites with this novel, the funky follow-up to Perdido Street Station and book 2 in the Bas-Lag/New Crobuzon trilogy.
A reader who is paying attention is going to allow a word like gout or puissant to pop up just a few times in a novel that is 600 pages.
I restarted The Scar last night because I needed a dose of Mieville's prose, and was blown away, as I always am, by Mieville's description of place.
Pull it out of the story, make it a fragment, and I would savour it like a tasty meal I was eating for the first time.On the story level, the opening of The Scar is both an important introduction to the story where so much will happen on Bas-Lag's oceans and an instant tug away from New Crobuzon, the steaming Metropolis at the heart of Perdido Street Station.
Why it is not called The Bas-Lag series I have no idea, all of the Scar is set outside the great sprawling city of New Crobuzon, though it is frequently referred to.As with the amazing Perdido Street Station this book is full of interesting characters and peculiar creatures (some of whom are pulling double duties as interesting characters also) full of magic (thaumaturgy, natch!).
I find this book endlessly fascinating and I look forward to visit Bas-Lag again in the Iron Council.
On the evidence of this book, I can only conclude that Mieville is not a very good writer.The weird fantasy cum steampunk story concerns a floating pirate city (made up of stolen vessels lashed together) and particularly three characters kidnapped on their way to settle a new land: a 15 year cabin boy, a remade slave and a translator needing to start a new life.
Comparative EmpathyAll through this work of fantasy, I couldn't help comparing it to William T Vollmann's  "The Royal Family"  and Angela Carter's  "The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffman" .The more you read the work of William T Vollmann, the more you find things lacking. Fortunately, as if by way of compensation, most of these same things are present in the fiction of China Mieville.Vollmann is touted as the master of empathy, even though his characters rarely show any empathy for each
Fortunately, as if by way of compensation, most of these same things are present in the fiction of China Mieville.Vollmann is touted as the master of empathy, even though his characters rarely show any empathy for each other.
However, even within this framework, there is a far greater fictional and factual insight into diversity, differences and relationships than what Vollmann's marketeers and purveyors assert is reflected in his trickster-egoist indulgences.Reading "The Scar", I couldn’t resist the conclusion that Vollmann is bogus, whereas Mieville is the real thing.
If you like China Miéville (and admittedly, he's not to everyone's taste) and you enjoyed Perdido Street Station and like New Weird science fiction/fantasy, you will love this book.China Mieville clearly borrows from the long and honorable tradition of British and American novels and plays about strange sea voyages (Robinson Crusoe, Moby-Dick; or, The Whale, The Tempest etc.) There's also, of course, the ultimate sea story, Homer's Odyssey.
Her plan had been to return to New Crobuzon after a few years away, and she feels she can never go back.In Armada, Bellis meets various others.
The ending doesn’t make you feel warm fuzzies that despite hardships and adventure, everyone sails off into the sunset singing gaily.
You feel confused.
Nataliya and Catie have already explained, far better than I ever could , the labyrinthine, kaleidoscopic, outrageously imaginative settings and protagonists that Mieville explores in this extravaganza of adventure, pirates, dictators, quests, betrayal, manipulation, loyalty, revenge, love, battle, vampires, cactus people, ghouls, mosquito people, grindylows, the avanc….the man’s imagination seems boundless.
But against this rich background, some protagonists loom enormous, and their emotions are palpable, their pain and confusion and motives leap out of the pages and tear at your heart.
He's resentful of those who have done this to him, and being rescued by Pirates is actually the best thing he could have hoped for!We follow both of these characters as they each have their own tale to tell about their time on board the ship, as part of the Armada, and as citizens of New Crobuzon.
In Armada, however, even the Remade are free and equal, so Tanner pledges his loyalty to his new home in a way Bellis is categorically incapable of doing.
Like pretty much every character in the book, he can't be called a protagonist or an antagonist, but it seems like, more than most of the characters, he does have Armada's best interests in mind.Of course, the one pair who symbolize Miéville's avoidance of romance have to be the Lovers themselves.
Do I want to see New Crobuzon arrive to smash Armada, killing so many people, just so Bellis can go home?

This is quite a strange book and it really didn't head in any of the many directions I could have imagined.
Mieville's extraordinary world-building is in evidence again, with legions of creatures, aliens, and countries in play.This one takes place entirely on the ocean, from one ship to a connected flotilla-landmass thing...
Okay, clearly I don't have Mieville's way with words.
So for people with water phobias - steer clear.It was an imaginative book and the story itself was anything but straightforward.

When I started this book, I didn't expect to love it in the way that I loved Perdido Street Station. I was right. They are two very different books. Where Perdido.. was one fantastic, magical surprise after another, The Scar has more subtle depths. And for that, I think I love The Scar even more. Scars are not injuries, Tanner Sack. A scar is a healing. After an injury, a scar is what makes you whole. In The Scar, Miéville takes the idea of the scar and mines it for every possible metaphor and m
When I started this book, I didn't expect to love it in the way that I loved Perdido Street Station.
And for that, I think I love The Scar even more.
Again and again, the theme of scars was raised, explored and taken in a different direction.
Truth is another of the book's key themes.
Beyond that, the book explores recurring themes of personal action and inaction, loyalty, possibility, obsession and home.
Miéville gives you a lot to think about in this book, long after you've closed the last page.
Many of the key themes are explored via the book's central character, Bellis Coldwine.
So far my favorite Miéville's book.Again main star is one very fascinating city but very different one. New crobuzone is filthy, dream shattering capitalist metropolis, pirate city Armada tries to be opposite. While in Perdido street station he criticizes capitalism in The scar he takes shots at communism and socialism, which I did find bit surprising as Miéville is left wing political activist. Other than fascinating city this book features multilayered story, well developed characters and creatures so strange I occasionally had hard time imagining them. All things standard for Miéville's books.
If she had been just a bit more passionate, she would have been one of the strongest female characters I've read.Bellis Coldwine is an unavoidable linchpin for the main story and someone who pushes the events forward, but she herself isn't very distinguishable.The consequences of Isaac's actions in Perdido Street Station can be seen here, albeit indirectly and miles away from New Crobuzon.
Armada by Franco BrambillaLink to more artwork and one of the reasons why I read this longer.There are so many fascinating characters and beings here that a whole review could be written only about them.
Even after reading the book, my feelings towards Armada are ambiguous.
I love China Miéville.
His imagination has no bounds and each book he writes is original.
As usual his world building in this book is phenomenal.
Who else could have created mosquito people whose men are harmless herbivores while the women (six foot tall but flying just like mosquitoes) crave blood and can suck a human dry in minutes.
And then there is the creation called Armada, a floating city formed by attaching hundreds of boats together.
I loved his descriptions of how the parks and libraries, shops and houses were placed in this city and how people progressed around it over rope bridges between decks.
An excellent book and well worth reading.
The most irritating part of his otherwise excellent Perdido Street Station is still very much in play in The Scar - that is, Mieville is still kinda unsure of himself, he still feels the need to prove himself, and his method of choice is Big Long Vocabulary Words.The problem is that he latches onto one, and then uses it again and again, sometimes in slightly questionable context.
It does, however, come close to being one of the most imaginative - even more so than Perdido Street Station, I think.
The Scar is more self-assured than Perdido Street Station, has fewer cringe-moments, is constructed with much greater artistry.
Another annoying tick: characters had (incredibly obvious) realizations and then spent pages thinking about how much their mind was blown.
The ideas behind Miéville's societies are good, but he doesn't follow them up well--I still don't know how a single character ate, or where they got their clothes, or anything like that.
There are exactly four female characters with any page time: Bellis, who (view spoiler)[is literally only useful as a conduit for male characters' actions.
(hide spoiler)] Every other character is male and every single goddamn thing that happens in this entire goddamn book is driven by dudes.
I think this book falls into the category of just not really my thing.
There are some books of China Miéville that I have really loved - Embassytown being my favorite so far.
I think there was less going on in that world, and because of that, characters were free to tell more of a story.
I was interested in her understanding (and confusion) with some of the men but many of those storylines fell flat in favor of the action in the story.
The nice thing about Miéville is that every book is so different, that not exactly enjoying this won't deter me from trying future books.
