https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220331.Jean_de_Florette_Manon_of_the_Springs
Jean de Florette, and, Manon des Sources, both originally published in 1963 and first published in English in 1966, are set in the hills of Provence in Southern France in the early twentieth century and together tell a tale of deception, betrayal and revenge.
این ده، میدان هموار و نسبتا درازی هم داشت، که بر دره ی طرف غرب مشرف بود، و دیواری از سنگ‌های تراشیده، که ده متری بلندی آن می‌شد زیر بند آن بود.
Moderan klasik francuske književnosti... Knjiga koja je sjajno ovekovečena odličnom ekranizacijom sa Depardjeom u glavnoj ulozi... Potražite i knjigu i film...
Family, and the continuity of generations are also a significant aspect of the novel's theme.The provincial drama sets the sly, old peasant Cesar Soubeyran(aka Papet), and his dimwitted nephew, Ugolin(aka Galinette) against the cultured, refined hunchback from Crespin, Jean Cadoret, focusing on a plot of land that is fundamental to them all.
The Soubeyrans have their own schemes for the land--rich of soil, under which flows the eponymous natural springs--and deviously plot to sabotage Jean's endeavors.The ill-treatment of Jean de Florette from the villagers of Les Bastides bears a slight resemblance to that of Victor Hugo's Notre Dame character, Quasimodo.
He's learned the difficult art of growing them successfully, and there's a good market for the flowers, but the problem is that carnations require huge amounts of water.
There's this old farm, Les Romarins, which would be ideal: it has a fine spring.
Before Jean arrives, César and Ugolin sneak in, and block up the spring.
They figure that, without water, Jean won't be able to do anything; he'll be forced to give up, sell the farm, and move back to the city.
César and Ugolin get control of the farm, and unblock the spring.
There is a magic here that I simply can’t catch in words.Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources, two of his later Provence novels, were made into movies directed by Claude Berri.
These are books not so much read through the eye as processed through the heart; they were processed through my heart.I could not fail to love Jean the hunchback; I could not fail to love golden-haired Manon, in her simplicity and in her beauty.
In Manon’s hills, water is more precious than gold; in Pagnol’s novels, words are more precious than gold.
(I'm off my onion, of course, but you're reading this, so you're a little off too.) I can feel the sun's heat on my skin in this book.
Yes, it's ridiculous, but I won't recant.The other thing I've come up with is that somehow, in an amazing feat of insight and skill that most authors wouldn't dare or even think to try, Pagnol has made all his characters Children.
Manon and the Hunchback are Nature's Children, and I feel as if Pagnol gave me a gift, introducing me to them as he has.
6 JUL 2018 - film today - Jean de Florette (1986) - and, it is a wonderful film. The film is in the original French, of which I have none. Thank good for subtitles. I do own this book - a 2-in-1 novel - which I will begin reading tonight.9 JUL 2018 - the films were presented back-to-back and were each equally wonderful. The novels are sublime. It is a rare thing when film and book are equally outstanding - this is that rare time.
اگر دلتان هوس شنیدن قصه ای دارد ، این کتاب را بخوانیدماجرای لطیفی که مثل جریان زلالی از پنجره ی ذهن 
I had seen the movies years ago and remembered really liking them, so I stuck with reading the novels even though they are more character/theme driven than plot based.
Two of the main questions that these novels address include: "Am I my brother's keeper?" and "Who is my brother/neighbor?" It's worth wading through to the end, where the plot does kick in with a serious and Greek-tragedy worthy twist.
The films are very true to the book, often down to the exact wording, and with stellar casting and performances, so if you want to save time, just watch the movies.
Jean de Florette is our August bookclub pick, and it is beautifully written but incomplete without Manon of the Springs. bookclub august 2015
Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources have long been two of my favorite movies since I saw them in the late 1980's. I owned them on VHS and have watched them too many times to count. I'm so glad I finally read the books. The story of greed, struggle, heartbreak, revenge, forgiveness, and regret pulls you in. Manon is a fantastic character. She's strong, independent, clever, and kind.
(Total is only 440 pages anyway.) When two scoundrels plug up a spring near their farm in rural Provence, hoping to claim it for their own private use later, they start a snowball of events that turn into a life or death matter for pretty much everyone in the village.
A beautiful and relaxing portrait of a slow-paced but hard-working lifestyle--let's walk ten miles daily to get water, but through hills of lavender; with a picnic of bread, sausage, and white wine--and also a great moral story of crime, punishment, love, family, and community.
Jean de Florette, his wife Aimee and daughter Manon are the perfectly happy family, leaving the town life behind and getting back to nature.
They have no experience for this endeavor but Jean relies on his books to predict the rainfall, for growing crops and for raising rabbits, etc.
The entire family willingly worked themselves to the bone.
I was joyful of their every success and mournful of every setback.Ugolin is an odious farmer/would-be-entrepreneur who covets Jean's land.
BUT his self-important god-father, the Papet is just an evil manipulator, plotting ruin.The townsfolk and Mother Nature played their own very frustrating roles.An excellent read.
Provence is a magical place where the light is orange on everything it touches, lavender and sun flowers fill the fields, and the people walk gruffly through your heart.
Right outside the town are purple fields and golden roads and the sun, sun, sun is everywhere.
Marcel Pagnol was a native of this region and his books capture the heat and the heartaches that this country is steeped in.
Both of these books were made into brilliant films.
Ms. Diane Jeter, wherever you are, I read these books in French in honor of you.
Timeless classic set in the wild countryside of southern France. A plot laced with twists and turns, exposing the follies and foibles of the characters of this close-knit village community, who guard their land with a vengeance, whose livelihood is at the mercy of Mother Nature, where blood runs thicker than water. With the most befitting score http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V44E_Y...
I saw this movie when I was seven or eight and my only memory was of Ugolin sewing the ribbon to his chest. What can I say, it's the kind of thing that stays with you. In any case, while the first book may be a tragedy and the second a story of revenge, the overwhelming theme seems to be the responsibility each man has for his neighbor; that standing by is not enough but we all need to be active in our kindness. A much better take-away than masochistic stitching, I think.
تلخی ِسیاه ِواقعیت وقتی با پلیدیهای ِپنهان ِروح ِآدمی همراه می شود آنچه به بار می نشیند چیزی جز سیه روزی و حرمان و نکبت نخواهد شد.داستانی بی ادعا شسته رفته و به لطف ترجمه های دوست داشتنی سروش خان حبیبی روان و سهل خوان که یکسره در تلاش است که پیوستگی ابتدا و انتهای داستان را با تعلیق ها و پیرنگ ها و بستر های مناسب برای هر اتفاق تا انتها حفظ کند که خوب در انجام این مهم بسیار هم موفق است .
I love these books. Great story, marvelous characters tenderly drawn, subtle psychology, and all in the service of a gentle meditation on chance and fate. I can't recommend these highly enough.
I saw the two novels in one (Jean de Florette and Manon Des Sources) and thought I would give it a try.
I was so taken with it that I had to get the DVDs and then the audio tape.Set in the 1920s in Provence and full of the simplistic ways of life the story unfolds into tragedy, revenge, satisfaction and finally a bitter twist.
Manon's revenge for her Father's death seems just but ironic with these simple people, and at the end you empathise with her but at the same time in a strange way, with the protagonoists.
Two short novels that work best as one longer novel. Pagnol details the tragic greed of two Provencal peasants which costs the life of a man, and how his daughter decides to avenge his death. The rural landscape near Marseille is beautifully described; possibly THE novel about French peasant life.
Amazing!
His rich, cunning uncle César (also known as “Le Papet”) is more ambitious: why not buy the fine farm of Les Romarins, that has a spring on its land?
Ugolin feels bad about the whole thing, but his uncle manipulates him horribly and they both watch Jean slowly exhaust himself to death trying to farm his land in the drought.
She then decides that she will get revenge, and that while Ugolin and the Papet will pay the harsher price, the rest of the village will go down with them for their odious complicity in her father’s death.It’s a powerful, tragic, beautifully written story.
Dans la suite, Manon, fille de Jean Cadoret a une occasion de venger son père… Belle, intelligente, ayant une merveilleuse complicité avec les animaux et la nature, elle donne aux villageois une sérieuse leçon de justice, d’amour et de bonté.Alors que le deuxième roman parle de vengeance, assène aux criminels un châtiment mérité faisant appel aux fabuleux talents de scénariste de Pagnol, « Jean de Florette » tient plus du traité sur la bêtise et la méchanceté humaines.
Elle est d’une part, l’amie de Manon, l’entoure, l’amuse, lui donne les précieux outils de sa vengeance, et accentue d’autre part la barbarie et la grossièreté des criminels quand ils sont face aux durs labeurs et à la survie dans la nature.
Genial
Then my friend Deb in Germany raved about how good this book is.
You have to be concerned with other people's business in order to help them, and that's called Christian charity.
Because, you see, to be loved by God it is not enough not to do harm; virtue is not keeping quiet and closing your eyes and not moving.
Virtue is acting, it's doing good.
That's why, when the opportunity for a good deed is presented, all ready, in marching order, right in front of your nose, it's because the Good Lord is offering it to you.
A long, long time ago I'd seen the film of Jean de Florette with Gerard Depardieu, whom I thought was the bee's knees back then but who has since gotten a little crazy, claiming he drinks a dozen bottles of wine a day without getting drunk, and, apparently, befriending Putin.
Jean de Florette is a tragedy, with much nobility and humor,and with a sort of redemption in the next book featuring his daughter, Manon--so you should read both, but I liked the first one better.
Jean de Florette enthusiastically moves onto the land in hope of giving his family a better life but is as ignorant of and resistant to nature's primal realities as most book-learned urbanites are.Meanwhile, his new neighbors are as ignorant of and resistant to outsiders as most untraveled provincials are.
I couldn't close the book after the last page but sat in stunned silence at this moral parable that had unfolded then neatly tied itself together before my eyes.After you read Jean de Florette and Manon des Sources, don't miss the film versions featuring Gerard Depardieu, Emmanuelle Beart and Yves Montand, with music from Giuseppe Verdi's: The Forces of Destiny.
I got to the point where I would be sitting and reading and, when, in the pages of the novel, rain came, I would flail around and cry out "IT'S RAINING!!" and thus greatly confuse people around me, who would look out the window in search of the clouds.
In this way, it is rather like a traditional tragedy, except rather than causing the downfall of one hero, internal struggles and faults cause the downfalls of many people.
3But, in the end, I wish this was a more well-known novel, it truly is a masterpiece and is definitely universal in its themes.
I first saw the films 'Jean de Florette' and 'Manon des Sources' long before I knew that they had been adapted from a book (which itself was adapted from a teleplay).
I love books which immediately suck you into a designated time and place and it's as if you're there yourself.
Some of the characters act so despicably that you're convinced that you will never feel sympathy for them, but in time, you do (or at least, I did).The book even had elements which I felt were lacking in the films.
Enjoyable saga of Provencal peasant life, as tax collector Jean inherits a cottage and plans an idyllic self-sufficient rural retreat with his wife and daughter.
The first book sets out Jean's story, the second details Manon's revenge.
So far, so good - a pleasing relaxing saga set among the characters of village life.
Dramatically there was no benefit to the story by Ugolin being ugly, it was superfluous.
And actually, given that it did not impede his life at all, why was Jean portrayed as a hunchback?
