https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19860524-like-a-fire-is-burning
It has always been ironic to me that the first Mormons actually had to leave the United States—the country founded on freedom—and travel 1300 miles before they were able find a place where they could peacefully worship.This is the story found in the 9 volume series The Work and the Glory, by Gerald Lund.5600 pages—exactly—in 32 days.
Book nine ends in 1847, a few months after Brigham Young leads 12,000 Mormon Pioneers from Nauvoo, IL to the Valley of the Great Salt Lake.The fiction part is engaging, well written, and breathes life into the historical events.
Slow in many spots, but I loved all the history throughout the book. Joshua is infuriating but I have hopes for his return to the family.
There is also the parts about the mobs in Missouri and Zion's Camp.I liked the first one better.
But I did enjoy some of the history of this book.
Stories such as lying down with a snake and it not biting him while in Zion's Camp.
I also really enjoyed the parts with the Kirtland Temple dedication.
This book also had a section in the back that explained the parts that were true in the story vs which were fiction.
I felt the fiction stories lacking in luster in this book.
Book one made the history come alive better.
and I'm SO glad that I realized that if my mom was enjoying them so much and recommending them to me, they must be worthwhile.This series, along with the Kent Family Chronicles (by John Jakes, about the United States), made me fall in love with historical fiction.
In this case, it was not only my knowledge of Church history events that was increased, but my understanding of those events.
Reading this series was such a wonderful way to increase both my knowledge of the Church and my testimony of the gospel.
I felt like there was a lot more historical stuff in this book than in the first one.
I would just be getting into the "good" stuff (a.k.a. the stuff about the characters who aren't actually real) when Lund would throw in another one of his historical essays that would mess up the flow of the story.
I'd prefer the historical stuff be in the background and the characters be the most important part of the story, but this series is the other way around.
Obviously I still like the series enough to be reading it my 3rd or 4th time.
Though I always love his books and there are many parts of this one I really enjoyed it took me almost a year to read and to me that is saying something if I'm not excited to pick up a book and finish it.
It maybe because I've seen the movies and though a little different stuck to the plot.
So maybe on book 4 I'll enjoy them more thoroughly.
The story line is good but again it took me forever and it kept getting set on the back burner even when I didn't have other books to read.
Reread August 2018——Reread October 2016——I learn so many things each time I read these books. It's interesting that certain character challenges this third time around meant more to me as I've had more life experiences of my own since my last reading.
I am loving these series! This particular book made me sad because of all the persecution towards the Saints and Joseph Smith. It absolutely broke my heart. But I also can't help admire all those who stood as a witness to God. Super great book!
This is the second time I have read The Work and the Glory. I am reading it now to a friend in the Nursing Home. We are thoroughly enjoying the experience together. I am quite sure, I am getting more out of it this time. Reading aloud has it perks.
Good but not as good as the first. The Chuch history is very cool, but seemed to get a little slow for me.
Beautiful historical fiction.
i really enjoyed this whole series
Again, these books are a phenomenal way to learn church history and better understand the context of the Doctrine and Covenants, but they're not the best written books in the world :) but I can't deny liking the story!
As with anything spiritual, however, the opposition will not likely be converted if they go in to something skeptical, and I could see how these books could inspire the skeptics to raise eyebrows, which makes me sad because as a LDS woman, I can see such great beauty and inspiration in this story.
I read this book during our family'es Church history vacation to New York and Ohio.
Reading it for the history was perfect and helped me not mind the "Sunday School lessons" so much.
It helped him appreciate the sites we visited such as Fayette where the Church was organized, the Newel K.
Knowing that story and then seeing the Erie Canal, Niagara Falls, the Buffalo Harbor, and the Fairport Harbor in Ohio made that story live, just as seeing other sites did the same thing to other stories.
So I think I've figured it out. Lund is a great writer but his dialogues are weak which is why his books appeal to me less as an adult as they did back in high school. The story is compelling, and the historical portion well done. But something happens as soon as the characters start talking to each other. It's an easy read, and a fun way to understand church history, which makes them well worth it.
This is a hard book to read, the persecution of Mormons is a shameful part of America's past. It's a triumph of ignorance and intolerance over freedom. Even knowing the history before starting the book, it's hard to go through these things with the characters.On the other hand, the story and writing were good, if not quite as strong as in the first book.
I enjoyed this book more than the first one in the series. I like the historical fiction but also find it annoying when all of a sudden a large section of historical facts is thrown in just as the story is developing more. My favorite part of this story the continual development of the fictional characters. I am interested to see what happens to them in the next book in this series.
Continued to enjoy a fictionalized retelling of the Restoration of the gospel. I am amazed by the experiences that people had in the early days and find myself wondering where we've gone wrong that such things seems so rare nowadays.
The Adventures of the Steed family continue. The writing continues to be excellent and the story is engaging. I haven't had any difficulty distinguishing historical fact from the writers creative ideas. People who are not Mormon in the story are treated with respect.
I love the historical part of these books. It’s interesting to think of the sacrifices and situations that early members faced. As I read this book, it also made me think about how the Lord’s timetable for everyone is different. I like that.
I think I was even more engrossed in this Volume than the prior. The notes at the end separating fiction from fact was a helpful addition. The author started a more back and forth, or choppy, storyline...but I think it was to cover so many locations and narratives. I'm excited to start Volume 3!
Awesome!
This was a fun quick read. Not as light as the first book because it dealt with Jackson County mobs. Fun to see the fictional characters placed into familiar stories.
I love this series and the author's writing style. I enjoy rereading them.
He was more interested in the history than actually writing about his characters.
Mary Ann has been married to her husband for years while it was a struggle for them, you knew they would get through it, with their intense love for eachother they weren't likely to give up on one another.
Onto good things!The church history, while not ALIVE with this story, was nonetheless interesting.
I did learn some cool new stories.I did like seeing Nathan grow in this story, he has quite the growing experience.I found the characters Lydia, Melissa, and Nathan all relatable.
I was impressed with the way the author included spiritual experiences at the temple dedication.
Of course, Lund also found a way to include minor details, such as Zelph, which will help the reader become more aware of the lesser-known stories in LDS Church History.
Several passages are almost directly taken from historical accounts, but I love the way he puts them in the perspective of his fictional family.
These books are a great for learning about Church History in a way that is uplifting and exciting.
I'm enjoying reading this series. I read them long ago as a teenager. It really helps bring to light what many families in the early church went through.
I still love Nathan and Lydia (sigh again) and their three children.
But I was really sad when Lydia miscarried, even though it was dealt with, in like, a paragraph.
Marriages: Lydia McBride and Nathan Steed get married at the beginning of this book.
Melissa Mary Steed and Carlton Rogers also get married in the early stages of this book.
Births: Nathan and Lydia have three children: Joshua Benjamin Steed, Emily Steed, and Nathan Joseph Steed.
Joshua and Jessica have one daughter: Rachel Steed.
Melissa and Carl have two sons: Carlton Hezekiah Rogers and David Benjamin Rogers.
Lydia has a stillborn child, Nathan Morgan Steed.
Work and the Glory: Like a Fire is Burning.
This is the second book in the Work and the Glory books.
It is about Nathan and Lydia and there life and moving to Kirtland and having kids.
Joshua and Jessica and trying to have kids and he is mean to her.
Ben and Mary Ann move to Kirtland and they help built the temple Joseph is told to make.
I really enjoyed this book it was really good.
I like it because I really like the first one, so it is like it and follows along with it.
Most the stories that
It is about Nathan and Lydia and there life and moving to Kirtland and having kids.
Most the stories that have real people in them is real and so everything is real and everything really happen.
And some of the stories I have heard before so I liked knowing them.
The book is a little sad about that happens to some of the people and what throught had to go thought so that makes be sad but I really like sad books so it was ok.
What I did not like about this book was that the story jump around to all the different people in the book.
Here is a little background on this book.In the early 1800's, a church called the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints(more popularly known as Mormons) was started.
Almost instantly, people started persecuting the church, and the Mormons were driven from place to place for a long time.
This book particularly is about the Steed family who joins the church.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who loves historical fiction, and is also interested in how The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints started.
