https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/178213.Building_a_Character
Building a Character (The Acting Books #2), Konstantin Stanislavski عنوان: شخصیت پردازی (شخصیت سازی) : کار هنرپیشه روی خود در جریان تجسم - مجموعه آثار استانیسلاوسکی (2)؛ نویسنده: کنستانتین استانیسلاوسکی؛ مترجم: مهین اسکویی؛ تهران، سروش، 1376؛ در 651 ص؛ شابک: 9644352327؛ چاپ سوم 1387؛ شابک: 9789643765750؛ موضوع: بازیگری با روش استانیسلاوسکی - قرن 20 م
There comes a point about halfway through "Building a Character" when Stanislavski's earnest young protagonist, Kostya, complains to his mentor, Torstov, that this batch of lessons all seem rather technical and not nearly as much fun as all the creativity and inspiration that was the foundation of the last batch of lessons (found in Stanislavski's first volume, "An Actor Prepares").
Without the strong foundation all this preparation creates, your acting will be a hollow imitation of real life, the worst sin imaginable by Stanislavksi.As Kostya shuts his trap and does as he's told, you begin to understand that whether or not you can bear with the instruction offered in the pages of "Building a Character" will indicate clearly how serious you are about acting.It is no great effort to be creative.
This and An Actor Prepares and Creating a Role are not academic books on theatre history. But they are far too important and influential to ignore. In the Actor Prepares Trilogy, Stanislavski defines acting as a very serious activity requiring immense discipline and integrity. He lays out a system for acting that demands a kind of psychological realism that was rarely seen in pre-19th Century acting styles. It is common for teachers of acting to regard the works of Stanislavski as the beginning of the modern era in terms of how young theatre artists are trained.
I have to say that I really struggled with some parts of this book.
Some chapters are really technical and very detailed and that is tiring after awhile.
The chapters in the end are very interesting and I couldn't put the book down!
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who is interested in acting.
It contains the basics of Stanislavski's method (along with "An actor prepares").
Some concepts of the method are really hard to grasp by reading and only through practice you can really understand them.
I will definitely read it again in the future.
Considerada la segunda parte de "Un actor se prepara", en este libro se analizan las técnicas necesarias para construir un personaje de manera creíble, natural y expresivo como marca el "sistema Stanislavski".
El propio autor reconoce que sin un "ojo experto" no se puede resolver realmente las objeciones que surjan en el desarrollo interpretativo del actor amateur por lo que este libro tiene que ser intercalado con verdaderas clases de teatro (preferiblemente las que sigan este sistema) para que pueda ser verdaderamente eficiente y práctico.
Por ello recomiendo a todo el mundo que lea esto que se apunten a clases de teatro.
I took around 6 months to complete this book,read it in bits and pieces,second book of Stanislavsky's "An actor Prepares" trilogy .I found this book very technical, many concepts related to speech,diction,Theater ethics I found very relatable but grasped few concepts like Tempo rhythms with a very poor understanding.Last few chapters in the book were really interesting.I recommend this book to the people who are interested in Pursing theater,It will surely be of great help :)
Stanislavski's theory of method acting requires actors to dip into their personal emotional wells to achieve verisimilitude in their roles. As such, actors are expected to exercise self-reflection regularly as part of their technique. Stanislavski's techniques for building a character are as useful to the lay person as to the actor--they are practical lessons in self-control. If practiced habitually, such technical awareness will expand one's moral perception as well as one's emotional depth, making one a more sensitively attuned actor in the world.
El libro es muy pesado y la verdad es que me da la sensación que en las cosas más "sencillas" se explaya en demasía y deja la vitales un poco a la pata coja.
Lo mejor del libro son sin duda los últimos capítulos, los más interesantes y ricos.
Creo que es una lectura obligada para todo aquel que quiera ser actor y la verdad es que me alegro de haber profundizado en una de las lecturas complementarias de una de las próximas asignaturas que cursaré en la Universidad.¡Ya puedo decir que he leído (algo de) el sistema Stanislavski!
(Algún día podré escribir el apellido de este hombre sin tener que mirar la portada del libro...)
Building A Character by Konstantin Stanislavski is a textbook masquerading as a novel.
Constantin Stanislavski is best known for his ‘system’ of actor training, preparation and rehearsal technique.
Written in 1948 and translated into English in 1950, the book reads like a novel and is about Tortsov, the Director of the school and theatre who gives acting lessons to his students.
Why this book is written as a novel, I have no idea.
But I do know that it does not work.
I found the way the book was written to be distracting and interfered with the learning experience.
From probably the most famous of all acting teachers, this fictional tale of a Russian acting troupe and its charismatic leader serves to teach the secrets of the method actor and all that goes into creating and being the character you are portraying. The language is not the easiest to follow but the science and thought is fascinating.
Konstantin Sergeievich Stanislavski (1863-1938) es uno de los nombres fundamentales del arte dramático. Su método, desarrollado a lo largo de décadas, es la columna vertebral de este gran libro. Infaltable en las bibliotecas de los amantes del Teatro.
Great materialCovers precisely the aspects of character building. Though many aspects cannot be learned, only it can be improvised through sequential practice.
Joitain mainioita hetkiä ja mielenkiintoisia pohdintoja taiteesta. Osa kuvatuista harjoituksista ei luettuna täysin auennut ja jaksanut kiinnostaa.
This isn't as interesting as An Actor Prepares, there's a lot weirder stuff here that's harder to relate to.
Like rhythm work with a metronome, different beats and how every play has an underlying beat and other beats layered on top of it and you can screw it up by not being on the right beat with your fellow actors.
I know that this stuff is also important for acting, but it's just not as easy to think about and apply to the work.
I think a lot of the stuff in this book almost has to be experienced in person.
salah satu buku penting dari 'bapak teater' dunia: 'building a character'. buku ini melengkapi buku dari pengarang yang sama, yang diterjemahkan oleh ws.rendra duluuu...[saya gak tau pasti, apakah ini buku yang sama?]buku ini baru saya beli kemaren, cukup tebal dengan kertas ringan sehingga enteng dibawa-bawa.yang menjengkelkan dari buku ini adalah sampulnya kok bergambar butet, yang tidak ada kena-mengenanya dengan teater garasi yang kaya dengan aktor-aktor hebat.he..he..
Stanislavski may have written this for actors, but as a writer, i found it unique and very helpful in writing a screenplay. It was a whole new picture of purpose and method. It was given me by mentor and friend, John Brascia, a screenwriter, producer, who was also the primary dancer in "White Christmas." He said the book will add to your depth and push you to work harder as a writer to present a character as Stanislavski creates.
I know Stanislavski's approach to acting is highly revered. But for me at least, this book was just confusing. I was expecting a how-to manual, but it was more of a collection of anecdotes that I had no idea how to apply to my own life. (Even the exercises are presented in a way that made them generally feel to me more like stories than instructions.)
Volume 2 of THE classic actor's handbook, and though "Method Acting" is essentially out of style, you have to know where the art has been to understand where it is now. It's still a fascinating read, as it was written during the discovery of the technique itself.
Membaca buku ini mengingatkanku pada latihan keras Maya Kitajima dalam serial Topeng Kaca untuk menjadi aktor yang mumpuni. Menjadi aktor memang bukan sekedar tampil di panggung atau depan kamera dengan hanya mengandalkan tampang keren atau nama beken.
In Building a Character, Stanislavski outlines the work an actor needs to do to develop himself to have a sharp vocal, physical, and emotionally expressive instrument. Again a brilliant book.
Every actor in the world should read this book. Truly amazing and insightful. Naturalistic approach, but there are lots of crossovers to other styles.
Great!! The last chapters is just a must read to all actors.
more research for first novel
this book is instrumental to my instrument.
Did not like this as much as the first. Found it tedious to read and everything was a bit too repetitive.
اگرچه در یک دوره ، شاید تا نیمه ی قرن بیستم، این کتاب راهنمایی برای بازیگران و کارگردانان تیاتر بود، گمان نکنم هنوز هم از "متد استانیسلاوسکی" استفاده می شود.
