https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55403.Black_Hawk_Down
The descriptions match in print what the film Private Ryan showed on-screen re the bloodiness and horror of actual combat.
Bowden describes not only the perspective of the American combatants, but of some of the Somali participants as well.
He informs us that the Italians were providing information to the locals re the American movements He also lets us know something of the complexity of the problem in Somalia, not a simple situation in which a freedom loving people is being subjugated by an evil warlord, but one in which there are many warring factions, each as nasty as the others.
STAFF SGT. Matt Eversmann's lanky frame was fully extended on the rope for what seemed too long on the way down. Hanging from a hovering Blackhawk helicopter, Eversmann was a full 70 feet above the streets of Mogadishu. His goggles had broken, so his eyes chafed in the thick cloud of dust stirred up by the bird's rotors.
Impressive.Another example of where the film is not even close to how good the book is, this narrative is gripping and very powerful.I had an Army friend who was there in Mogadishu at the time and said that the book was good journalism whereas the film was ridiculous.
Professional tough guy, former University of Georgia bulldog under Vince Dooley.This is, of course, a journalistic novel by Mark Bowden about the Battle of Mogadishu in 1993.
Bowden avoids sensationalism while still capturing the ugliness of an operation gone very wrong and the human costs associated on both sides.
This “snatch-and-grab” mission, expected to take less than an hour, resulted in the ferocious 15-hour Battle of Mogadishu, the “longest sustained firefight involving American troops since the Vietnam War.” The soldiers fought off thousands of armed Somalis, confronted by one unanticipated snafu after another, including (but certainly not limited to) the well-coordinated RPG attacks that successfully took down multiple U.S. military helicopters.
They used to kid Randy Shughart because he shunned the modern rifle and ammunition and carried a Vietnam era M-14, which shot a 7.62 round without the penetrating qualities of the new green tip.
This is not just a booklover speaking – the movie was really good, but the book does a much better job of bringing out the human elements, insights into the Somali perspective and the aftermath of the mission.The African nation of Somalia had been ravaged by civil war and a famine had broken out.
America lost eighteen of her soldiers while the Somali death toll was in hundreds.The book is a non-fiction account of a military operation, yet it reads like a war fiction.
In between describing the fighting, the author would provide the back stories of the US soldiers, the political climate of Somalia, and the experiences of a few Somalis.
I remember when this actually happened, but being a freshman in high school, I had bigger things going on...
Stebbins who's foot has a golf ball size piece of metal in it is given a pain killer and a gun to protect out the window.
Medic says "Here's a gun, you can guard this window." "okay" says Stebbins.
"But as your health care professional, I feel I should warn you that narcotics and fire arms don't mix." I did cry & get choked up throughout this book, either because of what was going on at the time and or hearing first hand accounts.
When American soldiers were dropped by helicopter into the Bakara market right in the heart of Mogadishu, Somalia on October 3 1993 for a supposedly easy in and out abduction mission they had no idea that they were going to be part of one of the most terrible, long and sustained close-combat firefights since Vietnam war.
When the battle was over the causalities among the Somalis where over 2000 with a lot of civilians among them and of the initial raiding force 18 American soldiers were dead, with more than 70 badly injured and one of the Black Hawk pilots captured by Aidid’s men.
Anyway, I've done unjustice to a really excellent work of history and military biography, and now it is time to correct this.So please disregard any comments and thoughts on my behalf before Oct 2, 2017.Now, the actual review:A fantastic book.Spectacular narrative, lots of personal touches, and we learn about the soldiers who fought, their fears and frustrations, their ideas and ideology, their creed, their friends, how they felt through the battle.
The soldiers are happy, mad or frightened.It is also a thousand times better than the movie.
This is one of those great books that you can't put down; it reads like a novel, a fast paced narrative that can sometimes make you forget that it's a true life drama where real people die.
I enjoyed reading this book and it's nice to see an honest appraisal of a stuffed-up mission, which was no fault of the men on the ground.
This is a well presented account of the men of the US Army Rangers and Delta Force troops involved in a mission to capture a pair of high-ranking deputies to warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid.
Well done to the author and the men involved!
One highlight for me: When I finished reading the book, my son, who was in Iraq at the time, told me he had met one of the men who survived this incident.
However, he also told me he met this man as he was being flown out for a cancer checkup.
One sad note: He was killed when the Medivac helicopter taking him to his cancer checkup in Baghdad was shot down in November 2003.
My son was the last person to see him alive on the ground...he helped to load him into the helicopter.
Expertly done in so many ways.The chief drawback: so many of the characters were interchangeable, it became very hard to keep them straight each time we returned to one.
Gripping read and detailed account of the 1993 horrific operation in Mogadishu that resulted in American soldiers dead and wounded.
Before reading this book, the only memory or information I had about the event were the images of two American soldiers being dragged through the streets by the Somalians- courtesy of CNN.This is a story about bravery, honor, and camaraderie- all of which are borne out of utter chaos.
Everything that can go wrong during this operation does: two Black Hawk helicopters go down, people are dying, soldiers are going in the wrong direction, and supplies are scarce.
‘The Day of the Rangers’ pushed many Somalis, friends of Aidid or not, into active hostility towards the U.S. troops.As Bowden points out, the fact that the situation in Somalia didn´t change after Aidid´s death says enough about the misjudgement of the U.S. to pick that particular fight, and of their misjudgement of conflict in failed states in general: “In the end, the Battle of the Black Sea is another lesson in the limits of what force can accomplish.”The Americans had also badly underestimated their opponents’ capabilities and willingness to take them on.
elite western troops with an inflated sense of their power, which translated into underestimation of their opponents and disdain for the civilian population.
Instead, one of the Black Hawk helicopters is brought down by a rocket-propelled grenade, and in the chaos that follows, the Rangers and D-boys are trapped in Mogadishu surrounded by hundreds of angry locals, the "combatants" and "non-combatants" essentially indistinguishable, and forced to hold them off with superior firepower overnight, until they are finally rescued in the morning by the 10th Mountain Division, a regular Army unit.Bowden, who interviewed as many of the survivors as he could find, including the super-secretive Delta Force troops (who, once he was able to find them, were surprisingly willing to tell him details of what happened), also went to Somalia and interviewed as many Somalis as he could find who were there, getting both sides of the story.
The American mission to capture two of clan warlord Aidid's top people was supposed to "take an hour" and at first seemed like it would be completed within minutes of their taking off from base.
But then a black hawk helicopter went down, then another, and "ninety-nine American soldiers [were] surrounded and trapped" overnight and fighting for their lives.
The account of the warfare is detailed and spools before your inner eye as vividly as any film--it reads like a novel.
As a result of that firefight in Mogadishu, 18 American soldiers lost their lives, and 73 were wounded.
Nevertheless, the images of dead American soldiers being dragged and abused by Somali civilians were (and still are) truly revolting and are inexcusable.The book also reveals details that were not in the movie or were modified for dramatic purposes.
Several American survivors and officials have expressed satisfaction with Bowden's narrative that he was often invited as a speaker in many military seminars and conferences.Perhaps the greatest contribution of Black Hawk Down is the instilling of a sobering reminder, before 9/11, to people that war is not a walk in the park and is certainly not a video game.
The raid, as we all know, did not go well, and the task force ended up getting pinned down in a fierce gunfight with the local populace, losing two helicopters, 18 soldiers and requiring a huge multi-national operation to rescue them.Bowden does exactly what he sets out to do in this book, to create a detailed and accurate historical account of this conflict.
They are in the soldiers minds dirty, immoral and contemptible, a viewpoint which ultimately makes it easier for them to do what they have to do.In the sense of an historical and personal chronicle of a “modern” war-time conflict then, this book is outstanding.
By actually talking to soldiers that were in the battle, their emotions and characteristics paint a perfect picture in your mind.
It was a fast paced book that was difficult to put down, for fear that you may miss something in the battle.
Though it was extremely enjoyable, Black Hawk Down was an extremely confusing book with too many characters.
I felt that the background information on the characters was enjoyable, but he gave too much on too many people.
When he resumed talking about the battle, it was difficult to remember who was who.
486I am not one to shy away from difficult subjects, but Mark Bowden's Black Hawk Down is one of the most disturbing books which I have read in recent years and it is disturbing on so many levels, the loss of life, the senselessness, the clash of cultures, the fact that the necessary time was not taken to learn the essentials lessons from this, but instead a rush to put the past and Somalia behind us.Black Hawk Down is an account of a battle fought on October 23, 1993 in Mogadishu, Somalia and as Bowden says "it was one of the most one sided battles in American history." The Rangers and Delta fighters were up against unbelievable odds.
It was not until I read this book that I was able to get a greater picture of the men involved, what 'went down' and the atmosphere surrounding the 'Mog' in the early 1990s.This is a very easy book to read as far as writing goes, Bowden is skillful in his ability to depict history with the flow and descriptions one often finds in best selling novels.
This is a well written book with a modern tale of heroism told in a sincere and skilled manner.85 %
I'm still not ready to bump Matterhorn down; however, this book at least equals it considering that it is a particularly engaging non-fiction account.Here are a few outstanding aspects of this narration of the Somali firefight:(1) The author includes the perspective of Somalians as well as UN Peacekeepers.(2) The author does a wonderful job of eliminating his own bias - until the Epilogue and Afterward.
I found myself amazed that anyone could win a war with so many divisional objectives in play.My only knock on this book is that I would have liked to have seen even more of the Somali perspective.
Seeing the viewpoint of each of the factions would have been great, however, its not likely there would be many Somalis willing to speak out.
Anyone with delusions of it being glorious or anything other than hell needs only to read a few chapters of Black Hawk Down to have those fantasies shattered to smithereens.
After all, it is a presentation of real events so I do not think it fair or appropriate to complain about it being dry, depressing, or long since the author is telling it the way it happened.
Some of his descriptions are so vivid, you almost feel like you are there.I suppose the main reason I struggled to finish reading Black Hawk Down was because I didn't do my homework.
That said, I am glad I read this book.
Reasonably accurate. Having served with some of the participants, it's inevitable some things would be left out. But by giving both sides, Bowden does a good job of showing the fog of war.Violating one of Rogers Rules of Rangering is pretty amazing for Rangers and Delta to do, but they did. Same plan over and over-- eventually they will catch on.
Having worked (albeit briefly) in a number of African states, it's both sad and informative to read about another step in Somalia's modern-era civil war and descent into its current, depressing, all-too-often seemingly hopelessly chaotic state (although, increasingly, Somalia is enjoying some amount of reconstruction and is now optimistically described as a progressing, evolving "fragile state").For non-military readers, the most important thing to know is that the author succeeds in presenting a detailed, harrowing non-fiction account of a dramatic military confrontation that reads like best-selling, airport bookstore fiction.
Executive Summary: I think this is a case of bad timing more than the quality of the book. I think choosing to read a nonfiction book about a lot of American soldiers dying near the holidays was a bad idea on my part.Audiobook: Alan Sklar seemed to be a fine narrator. Unlike fiction books, I always prefer the narrator do as little as possible with nonfiction. He read clearly and with good inflection. Full Review I saw the movie adaptation of this book years ago when it first came out, and recall
I think choosing to read a nonfiction book about a lot of American soldiers dying near the holidays was a bad idea on my part.Audiobook: Alan Sklar seemed to be a fine narrator.
I think Mr. Bowden wanted to ensure we knew whose these American soldiers were, and he goes into a lot of detail about many of them at the start.Things really start to pick up as everything goes wrong.
I am glad I read it though, and I think it's an important story to have been told, especially at the time when it was released.
In my view the American military was triumphant against incredible odds, but ultimately the political establishment did not have the stomach for any further losses.
Though told primarily from an American point of view (as it should be), it was amazing that he was able to get interviews with Somali fighters, and other foreign nationals present at the time.
Until this book was written, this battle was not even a footnote in American history.
What is also becoming clear as time passes, is that skirmishes such as this one impact foreign policy far more than people think.
Like the movie, your eyes will be glued to the pages in this book.US soldiers are assigned to arrest and bring to justice a Somali warlord who has been stealing food shipped by the United Nations to prevent hundreds of thousands of deaths by starvation.
When 2 Blackhawk helicopters are shot down during a raid to arrest the warlord and his cronies, the Americans face incredible odds battling through streets in hopes of reaching the crash sites to rescue their brethren and return to safe lines.This battle marked the first time a commanding general was able to lead his troops with on-time visual reports thanks to helicopters equipped with cameras.
This account of the infamous battle in Mogadishu, Somalia benefits both from the story being so compelling, and from Bowden's structuring style.
Bowden interviewed everyone he could get ahold of, both in the US and Somalia, before writing the book- then compared stories and asked for clarification wherever there were discrepancies.
Because of this, you get the story from many different perspectives, shifting between them as it unfolds, and the honesty of it serves to illustrate the many complications that arise when the world's strongest army ends up engaging mobs of armed and angry people in a third world country.
An intense and incredible story of a 1993 mission by the US Army Rangers and other forces in Somalia.
Hands down, this is one of the best books I have ever read.
The portrait of each of the main characters is solidly drawn, and you really care about what happens to each of these men.
Unlike many books about war or battles, this one gives a real sense of the terrors of close combat and guerilla warfare, and the courage of the soldiers who were faced with battling under extreme circumstances.
It's a true story which makes it all the more compelling.
A remarkable book. The way the story is told, the detail, the vividness, and emotion.
