https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557307.Sharpe_s_Eagle
Sharpe's Eagle is where so many of the familiar faces that recur throughout the series originally crop up.
Most notably Sir Henry Simmerson...(Simmerson as so aptly played by actor Michael Cochrane in the tv series.)He's the snobbish, ineffectual British officer everyone loves to hate.
Simmerson brings with him a couple of shitty lieutenants, who become lethally entangled with Sharpe.
He plays a real prick here.)However, it's Simmerson who will, in future books, become one of the biggest, continuous thorns in Sharpe's side.
But hey, it's a rollicking good time nonetheless!Read the books and go watch the tv series...it's got Ned Stark Sean Bean as Sharpe!
I enjoyed this book very much. The book is concerning the life of a Captain in the English army. He is fighting for his honor and for the Eagle of the French army. This is a very cuvetted color. He is trying to keep his rank by stealing the Eagle because he had lost his color to the French in a previous battle.I recommend this book highly.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
I am always faintly ashamed to be a fan, I generally hide my taste for them, but I get off on what they have to offer.There are high-end historical novels, like Aubrey-Maturin (the one series I am proud to be a fan of) or Wolf Hall, that are sort of like Deep Throat and other the classic porn movies -- if you have to admit to your tastes, they are the ones that are easy to claim as your own.
Not in any obsessive or overwhelming or unhealthy way, but fondly and warmly because...well...reading Sharpe is enjoyable, and who doesn't like enjoying themselves?
With no way for Sharpe’s company to get to England the riflemen are seconded to The South Essex regiment.
The miracle Sharpe plans is the capture of a French Eagle.The English with their Spanish allies are about to fight the French at Talavera.
Vastly out numbered the English and Spanish also need a miracle if they are to have a victory this day.Whilst Captain Richard Sharpe is hard pressed fighting the French he also needs eyes in the back of his head to see what Sir Henry Simmerson is up to.Another great read form Bernard Cornwell.
Sharpe's fighting in the peninsula, but as ever, his worst enemy is the British Army.A know nothing, by the book martinet colonel brings in a troop, and makes things harder for everybody, as Sharpe and Co. try to get them into fighting shape. Meanwhile, his womanizing nephew is cutting a swathe through the ladies, but seems to want Sharpe's woman. It all comes down to a big battle. Sharpe has to get an enemy company's sigil to stay a captain, and he'll do anything to keep his rank.Great stuff.
I am reading the history of Richard Sharpe adventures in chronological, not publication order.
This has a side effect of accentuating the uneven quality of some of the books, and the episodic nature of the saga, with some inconsistencies from one book to the next that do not bear too close a scrutiny.Sharpe's Eagle is my eighth book, but one of the first to be published.
I shouldn't be grumpy about the relatively weak plot and cardboard characters, especially as I plan to continue reading the series.
I was a big fan of Sharpe as a young adult. This was the first book in the series when I started reading Cornwell and it has everything that I came to expect from the other titles. The historical details are fascinating and the action is amazing. The smoke from the battles comes off the pages. Consider this as a gift for male teenagers who don't read that much. If it captures their imagination they will feel like their learning a little history and they will have many books to work through.Carac
Hrm. When I read this, it was the second in the series. It is now listed as the eighth. Cornwell must have developed a fondness for prequels...EDIT: And it turns out this was actually the first published entry in the series! MADNESS!First Read: 1994 or 1995?Second Read: March 11, 2017 - March 15, 2017
It's too bad it worked out like this, who wouldn't want to see a young Sean Bean in Sharpe's Tiger?
Because this is a Sharpe novel and he's an officer, Simmerson is predictably a despicable moron douchebag.
Unfortunately for him, despicable moron douchebags don't do too well in Cornwell novels and it's up to Sharpe to redeem the regiment's honor after a disastrous mistake on Simmerson's part.
I haven't read the books, but I've heard they're much the same if not worse.)That rant over with, I loved Cornwell's telling of Sharpe's involvement in Talavera.
Unfortunately, a French cavalry troupe is spotted, and, much to Sharpe's confusion, Simmerson tries to catch it with foot soldiers...
Sharpe's Confusion soon turns into disbelieve and then to dismay as he sees the cavalry troupe route a regiment ten times their number.
Fortunately, this is the moment Sharpe becomes annoyed, saving the King's Colours and capturing a field gun that he turns onto the enemy, chasing away the cavalry and by the end of the book he kills a couple of thoroughly disagreeable British Officers, beds the woman (apparently all women of the time liked a bit of rough) and captures the first French Eagle.
Да не забравяме, че става въпрос за епоха, в която офицерите са купували назначението и повишенията си и в която армия, процентът на войници издигнали се от ниските ѝ чинове до офицери е пренебрежителен като число.
Кампанията на Уелингтън срещу французите продължава и води към битката при Талавера (Испания), един много интересен епизод от Войните на полуострова (Peninsula wars).
;)29th Regiment attacking the French at the Battle of Talavera on 28th July 1809 in the Peninsular War:P.S. А сержант Харпър е представен като любител орнитолог!!!
Better than I thought.Bernard`s first & I can see the stuff of later novels in it.I prefer his Uhtred & Arthur novels but I like how Sharpe has a big Irish mate like Uhtred has a little Irish mate.Might even read more of his Sharpe`s someday.
Better than I thought.Bernard`s first & I can see the stuff of later novels in it.I prefer his Uhtred & Arthur novels but I like how Sharpe has a big Irish mate like Uhtred has a little Irish mate.Might even read more of his Sharpe`s someday.
SHARPE'S EAGLE really impressed me, even on audiobook!The thing that surprised me the most was the way Cornwell is so open about the injustices of the British army.
The amazing thing about Sharpe is that he has such a clear sense of injustice yet he continues to make his way in the army on his own terms.
Listening on audiobook was really an exciting experience.
The only thing that annoyed me was the way he read the evil Colonel's voice like he was one of Dr. Who's DALEKS.
But other than that this was an amazing experience.
I'm really excited about Sharpe!
Bernard Cornwell does an excellent job of detailing the events of Sharpe in this book.
So after the start events where the Colors get taken by the enemy (which is the worse thing possible to an army that can happen, losing your color the country flag that is)Sharpe on a unspoken promise sets out with his eye on a French Imperial Eagle to even the score.Bernard, does brilliant explanations and has perfect scene writing skills every little skirmish or battle he describes everything down to such details I felt I was there right along side the army.
No sé en que momento caí rendido a los pies del rudo soldado inglés y su tropa de temibles fusileros, posiblemente resistí los primeros veinte minutos, dudo que aguantase más.
Por los personajes, que se integran en la historia de tal forma que es posible ver el retrato de una época pasada.
Por las descripciones, tanto de las batallas como de la situación política del momento, explicando la estrategia de los dos contendientes.
No solo es una serie sobre las Guerras Napoleónicas, tambien retrocede a la conquista de la India siguiendo la carrera militar de Lord Wellington.Un buen libro para una gran saga
So the gumph at the beginning says this was the first Sharpe book that Bernard Cornwell wrote, but is currently the eighth chronologically.
I read them in chronological order, so I was well acquainted with Sharpe in India and Copenhagen long before he got to grips with the dastardly Napoleon.
That said, it is a tribute to Bernard Cornwell that his prequels and sequels all fit together very well.
This is one the best books in the series,it has all the ingredients.
Talavera, Spain, 1809. Sharpe faces Napoleon’s armies at Talavera. His ferocity and strategic genius are, of course, hindered by weak and ineffectual allies (the Spanish, who flee in terror at their own musket volley, and the requisite enemies on his own side: in this book, the fatuous Colonel Sir Henry Simmerson, and his effete, woman-beating nephew). But they are no match for Sharpe, of course, who gets the girl, kills his enemies, loses the girl, and wins heaps of awards. Yes, it’s all a bit formulaic.
The first of many books about Richard Sharpe, a soldier in the Napoleonic Wars who works his way from private in the ranks up to officer. Sharpe is a terrific character - violent, but likeable. I fall in love with him every time. Sean Bean plays him in a TV mini-series based on the books. Good series, but the books are better.
I enjoyed the Sharpe's novels pretty well. They do seem to bog down now and again, you must build in a romantic angle. In this one the obligitory inept officers almost bring about disaster and shame the Regiment. it falls to Sharpe (of course) to redeem their honor.
I don't often encounter historical/military novels that themselves have a strong sense of prior history the way that Sharpe's Eagle has, for the Roman Empire strongly permeates the book, especially in its opening chapters.We open with Sharpe and his rifle company* being drafted into yet another weird little scheme.
And lose the regimental colors (the physical embodiment of a regiment's honor and pride the way a Roman legion's eagle was back in the day, and what the French still use for this purpose ca the early 1800s, and now the title of this novel makes all the sense in the world, don't it?) into the bargain.That's all prologue.
This one is my absolute favorite Sharpe book so far. The "blowing up the bridge" scene that comprises the first 15-20% of the book is masterful. I particularly enjoyed the French cavalry applauding. This book is exciting, appealing, and very rewarding.There are so many parallels between life in the Regency British Army and modern corporate life that it's frightening.
This is the first book written by Cornwall in the series, but chronologically it is book 8 in the series. You can see the development of the author when you read the books in order, and this is a seriously good debut novel.
La compañía delteniente de fusileros Richard Sharpe, un soldado audaz, profesional eimplacable, es enviada a destruir un puente sobre el Tajo.
Pero loque en un principio no es más que una simple demostración de fuerzase convierte en una ignominiosa derrota cuando la caballería deNapoleón aparece en el campo de batalla.
Sharpe, un oficial que haascendido por su valentía tras largos años de servicio de elejército, no está dispuesto a olvidar esta afrenta.
El peligroacecha, y procede tanto de las tropas francesas como de su propiobando.
Action packed adventure again, with commendable new allies and detestable new antagonists. Valuable historical insight into the troubles of the Peninsular war is also sprinkled throughout without detracting from or interrupting the story.
-Update:I have revised my rating as I have reflected on this book.
I believe I allowed my bias to impact my decision on the book.
In reflection, I feel like the book itself is a well written work that has an engaging story.
This book has left a positive imprint on my memory and have changed my rating appropriately.=============I wanted to like this book, but I feel it let me down.
I believe part of the problem is that I've read so many other books by Cornwell that I had high expectations.
If I had read this book first, I would have enjoyed it more.
This was the first time where the out-of-order writing of the books caused me serious fits.Sharpe's Eagle was the first Sharpe book (though I didn't know that when I read it) and when viewed from that vantage point it is pretty good.
Fun, not too mentally taxing, and Sharpe gets to be better than everyone else all the time at everything.When viewed as part of the entire series of Sharpe books (well, the three I've read) the appraisal changes somewhat.
Yet the previous book, not ten pages from the end, had Sharpe complaining that he didn't want to be sent back home.In this book he says that he has never met General Hill.
Lieutenant Sharpe, recovering from a saber wound, has his first encounter with the South Essex Battalion of infantry, newly arrived from England with two aristocratic and totally incompetent officers at their head.
Sharpe saves the day, only to make implacable enemies out of the two aristocrats.[return][return]One thing leads to another, and Sharpe and company fight at the Battle of Talavera where Sharpe wins renown, a French Eagle, and a promotion to Captain.
The capturing of the French Eagle is based on a real event; only the names were changed to make an excellent story.[return][return]Not quite so meaty as some others in the series, it's still a great read.
What should be a straightforward mission becomes complicated by the fact that, for the sake of diplomacy, they are also to be accompanied by a Spanish force and, to further complicate things, in order to give the Spaniards face, a British force will also accompany them.
The real problems lie in the inadequacies of the Spaniards and the incompetence of the British commander...
Sharpe is the efficient fighter (and killer) we have become accustomed to by now (if we've been following the series) - in fact, he's a bit of a superman.
Since 1981, when it was first published, author Bernard Cornwell has written sequels and prequels to this first in the series.
Being who I am, I read the prequels first and have as such enjoyed the writing of an experienced, quality writer.
The story isn't quite as interesting as other earlier books plots have been, and I believe a lot of that is Cornwall's inexperience (at the time) as a writer.
It is still a good read, and as expected, Sharpe survives quite a number of conflicts, but ultimately, the Eagle isn't the best of Cornwell's books even though it technically was the first.
After reading several Cornwell books, I finally started the Sharpe series.
This was a great introduction to Richard Sharpe.
He is similar to other Cornwell heroes in that he is skilled in war and seemingly invincible.
He does have his weaknesses but he uses them to motivate himself to greater glory in battle.
The story was well written, as usual.
There were a few slow spots but they set up the next action.
Fortunately Richard Sharpe is able to rise above the failures of others to realize his goal.
