https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1123566.Taggart
Adam Stark, along with his wife and sister, has stumbled onto a nice gold find in the mountains of Arizona territory.
The only problem is that it’s right in the middle of Apache territory.
Into the mix comes Swante Taggart, a man with a questionable past, pursued by a famed bounty hunter.Another solid entry in the Louis L’Amour collection of western novels.
I continue to be amazed that with such a large output, this author could come up with so many different plots.
This novel includes a fairly strong romance plot as well; something unusual for most L’Amour books.
A fine L'Amour entry, with an interesting setting I'd like to explore myself, described in vivid terms and set in the scorching deserts of the Southwest USA.
Greed, gold, ambition, and a girl who misunderstands her man are all played out with skill and dramatic storytelling that is an excellent display of L'Amour's talent.As a bonus, this has one of the most fleshed out and interesting female characters I've encountered in a L'Amour book, giving Miriam more of a personality and part in the story than usual.
All of the main characters are given stark, interesting stories and personalities, against a powerful drama.
Adam and his wife and sister were trying to stay out of the way of the Apaches who were raiding in the area.
Adam had found a rich vein of gold and was trying to get as much of it out as he could.
Taggart had had his own ranch before a larger outfit ran him off of it because they wanted his land.
He had tried to protect his land and was now accused of murder.
While he's trying to outrun a bounty hunter he stumbles on Adam's camp.
He also has a wonderful way of describing the land where his books take place.
Classic L'Amour, the Raymond Chandler of westerns. Better plot than most westerns, and L'Amour was in his descriptive prime here.
Rather than the silent, strong, tall stranger coming into town, this one starts with the unlikely hero and his family and brings in the strong and silent type later so the reader got two for the price of one.Taggart brings together two stories- two different men and two VERY different women, a gold mine, Apaches, and an ambivalent bounty hunter.
She doesn't need saving and wants a man she can walk beside not behind.Into this troubled household comes Taggart, the stranger, with a posse on his tail and the Apaches stirred up by his entry into the local country.
This book is about a man named Taggart.
Taggart was a wanted man.
Although I did like how Taggart sacrificed his time and easy out just to help a lady that probably wasn’t going to be thankful for any of his services.
That’s why I thought the theme of this book was to always help people even if they don’t deserve it.
They will most likely be thankful for your help in the end.
Taggart is a good man and that’s why we should all try and be like him and act what he would do.
This is exactly what I read Louis L’Amour for: a tight story that is almost just a vignette of the idealized old west. A man wants to get rich for good reasons; a fickle woman; a man on the run; and an amoral gunman. And surprises delivered out of the blue exactly where they matter most!
Good story, rather complex after some of his works. The mine in this book is a take off of one talked about in another book. I wonder if they really left god in crevices in the desert like they do in Louis L'Amour's books? Any way, this was a good book to read, and I enjoyed it a lot.
Read in the 80s
I liked this book
In this book there is a man and his wife and his sister they went to the mouatins and adam them man found gold then later in the book a man named taggart came to there house and asked to stay there. Here are some examples of figurative language casting a bot the fail is a simile shadows reaching to words them is a metaphor taggart had been so long with out food his stomach shrenk is a metphor the wind touched the viloin of the tree is syblismsoms. And my last one is mirriam felt her spine stiffi
Here are some examples of figurative language casting a bot the fail is a simile shadows reaching to words them is a metaphor taggart had been so long with out food his stomach shrenk is a metphor the wind touched the viloin of the tree is syblismsoms.
And my last one is mirriam felt her spine stiffien is a metphor.
I realy like this book beacus it is dcerry action packd and it made you want to keep reading it all the way threw it is a western book i like waster books beacus they keep you hooked all the way threw that is why i liked this book.

It was a good one.This story in particular included an account of a prospector during the gold rush, which I am absolutely engrossed by.
But THIS prospector was a man of true grit in a pretty interesting story that kept me turning the 140 pages.
Apparently La'mour was even stranded in survival-type situations several times, and had to gut out his existence in a contest against man and nature.
La'mour has a deep-rooted appreciation for our affiliation with the dirt, and has a rich poetic appraisal of man's need to be out in the open air.
Louis L'Amour wrote nearly a hundred novels.
I also like action and adventure, cowboys and Indians, westerns, gun fights, and good old fashioned drama.
The bounty hunter and a whole lot of Apache Indians are nearby too.
Taggart himself wants nothing more than his freedom; but he's a man of honor and will fight for the people who tried to protect him.
If you like stories of the frontier, if you're a sucker for the dusty trail, even dustier saloons, stage coaches, gun fights and the thrill of the chase, you can't go wrong with Taggart and Louis L'Amour
Is gold worth dying for?
As Adam Stark inspected the newly found lode, snuggled beneath a mass of rock which could tumble at any moment, he coolly decided that it was.
He also decided that he would not leave the valley until he’d gleaned one hundred thousand dollars worth of gold from the mine.The important thing is to hide his presence from the marauding Apaches.
All he wants is the reward on Taggart’s head.With all of the action about, will Adam be able to preserve the mine’s secret?
And will the activity upset the Apaches?Visit The Blithering Bookster to read the rest of my review!http://blitheringbookster.com/home/20...
Jared BarrettPage 112/12/16Ms. MolesTaggart Book Review Taggart, a Western book by Louis L’Amour, is about a man who had found gold. Adam Stark is this man. He, his wife, and his sister were working silently on a very large vein of gold, but had to keep quiet from the Apache raiders. Stark needed to make the money to take his wife to San Francisco, where she desperately wanted to go. When the stranger Taggart, a man on the run, comes into their camp, tensions rise very high. My opinion of Taggar
Jared BarrettPage 112/12/16Ms. MolesTaggart Book Review	Taggart, a Western book by Louis L’Amour, is about a man who had found gold.
Adam Stark is this man.
He, his wife, and his sister were working silently on a very large vein of gold, but had to keep quiet from the Apache raiders.
Stark needed to make the money to take his wife to San Francisco, where she desperately wanted to go.
When the stranger Taggart, a man on the run, comes into their camp, tensions rise very high.
It is ideal for anyone looking for a good western.

At 32, Swante Taggart is in the prim of his life.
He is a powerful man with intelligence of the land matched by none.
He seldom speaks, but when he does you want to hear what he has to say.
Many of Louis L'amore characters fit this description, but it describes the type of man that I never get tired of reading about.
This book is not your typical western, but a study in character.
I have read many of L'mour's books and "Taggart" is quite possibly one of the best he's written.
It's a believable story where the narration only complements the prose.
Another highly capable L'Amour hero in difficult straits who meets a tough, capable woman. In this one, a stretch of desert, mountains, and mesas in the Arizona Territory play an important role as well. The standout character might be a bounty hunter -- who is the villain, but still capable, and semi-honorable -- for a while. The weak (and weakly drawn) character is a Mexican woman named Consuela -- she just wants riches and high-life until she learns better.
I enjoyed this L'Amour western more than most. He paints a lovely and accurate portait of the American West and in a view that I share, loves the desolate places on earth. He may not be able to describe Las Vegas, Disneyworld or Atlantic City, but when it comes to the beauty of the desert, the tundra, the open ocean or the prairie, few are better. He even went so far as to include a little romance in this effort.
The first of L'amour's books that I've read, I didn't know what to expect. His writing was solid yet simple. He adds a lot of nuance and small character touches that may not play into the larger story, but create a lot of texture. If I have one criticism, it's that his almost relaxed style robs his action scenes of some tension. But it's not a big problem, since he relies more on character and colouring the world. Very enjoyable - I look forward to the next novel of his I pick up.
As I work my way through the entire L'Amour western collection, I find I didn't like this one quite as much as the others.I found the long, drawn out discussion between the two female characters monotonous and other parts of the story seemed rushed.Still a fun read, just not up to the standard set by his earlier works.
(Genre:Fiction/Western) Classic Louis L'Amour book--rugged cowboy hero comes across a beautiful lady in need (along with her brother and sister-in-law) and uses his skills with a rifle, to protect them and see them to safety. What's not to love? If you like other L'Amour books, then you should like this one as well. :)
It was at typical L'Amour, hard fighting, some romance, and the good guy wins the last shootout and the girl at the end. Fun, no psychology to worry about and some expressions of what kind of men it took to make a way in the West of those time. Although I had read it some years earlier, the details were fuzzy, so I enjoyed it.
Deep in Apache country Adam Stark is mining gold with his disillusioned wife and his sister. He hopes to gleam enough gold to take his wife to San Francisco where she might be happier. When Taggart rides into the claim, the wife plies her wiles on him to see if she wants Taggart instead of her husband. Stark has to try to keep his gold and his wife.
It was a very good book about a man who shot some people trying to protect his land then had a bounty hunter hot on his trail. He came across a family of 3 and helped them fend off indians and protect their gold. He ended up marrying the one woman, his friends sister, and killing the bounty hunter.
I devoured L'Amour books in my teens so decided decades later to revisit. There is something reassuring in his plots - they are not difficult: wronged hero gets the girl and the baddie gets his just rewards.
Taggart is yet another great western written by the master of the jenre. Taggart the title roll, is a drifter who is wanted by the law for murder. He is trailed and tracked by a man hunter. There is a lot of good suspence and fights.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
I read this book a few years ago. It was my first western and it reeled me in. Louis L'Amour gives me just enough detail to paint a wonderful picture in my head. He is a must author if you enjoy a great story about the wild west.
L'Amour, Louis PB
