https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210918.The_Tiger_in_the_Well
The publisher's blurb on the back of my edition of TTITW reads "THE PLOT GRIPS LIKE A DROWNING MAN AND DRAGS THE READER DEEP INTO THE SEWERS OF VICTORIAN VILLAINY." Yes. That is exactly what the plot is like/does.
I would add only: "IT'S REALLY FUN TO READ AHH!" Pullman always hero-worships his protagonists a bit, but he writes such compelling ones it's impossible to blame him.
I don't have a crush on Mr. Goldberg the way I did when I was younger* but by god he's fun to read about--a perfect counterpart for Sally.*I might still have a slight crush on Mr. Goldberg
Pre-review This looks terrifying, but I still gotta read it. Review It was terrifying. But it was also very good, like the rest of this series, and basically everything Phillip Pullman writes is fabulous. I was so scared at many points and empathised so much with Sally. I can't imagine how awful it would be, to have some hidden enemy know everything about you and always be one step ahead of you. I did guess the villain, mostly because of (view spoiler)[his mention at the very beginning and the
Like I said in one of my status updates, the great thing about this series is that you're never entirely sure who the villain is until the very end.That's not to say this book was without problems.
The villain's death seemed very anti-climactic, and (view spoiler)[I honestly couldn't believe that Sally wouldn't have killed him.
(hide spoiler)] Also, there could have been a few more pages at the end just to tidy things up more, and we could have had Sally's or Goldberg's perspective on the meeting at the prison.
(view spoiler)[They had what, two meetings?, and by the end they were kissing and Sally had decided to marry him.
Meeehhhhh, Sally's second book was good, and this one...was not.
One, Sally is back to annoying me.
You're supposed to be too much of a badass chick to deal with his incompetence.
And four, why is everybody else so stupid?
*Slaps hand to forehead*(Just realized points one and three are...kind of the same thing.
But she's so stupid and annoying in this book that it probably warrants two separate points.)In the end, Sally ends up with a sexy, smart political leader, who I kind of dig, but I still miss Fred :(
Instead the characters who represent these issues become friends and allies of Sally in her fight against the evil Mr Parrish, his shadowy employer (whose identity is pretty obvious if you read the first two books in the series), and the patriarchal Victorian Law. As the story goes on Sally gets to witness and assist her friends in their own struggles, which, as it unsurprisingly turns out, are connected with her own.
Con mi suerte de siempre, resultó ser el único que no trata de Sally, sino de otros personajes secundarios.
Bien, el único problema que tuve fue comerme spoilers gigantescos sobre los finales de los otros libros, pero eso estaba visto.
Si bien la saga de Sally es mucho más «informal», solo podemos esperar calidad de Pullman.
(view spoiler)[ ¿Cómo puede ser que Sally demore tanto en darse cuenta de quién es el enemigo?
Hasta yo me di cuenta, y eso que no leí los otros dos libros.
(hide spoiler)]No esperaba de este libro, eso sí, que fuera tan político.
I loved it!I always knew that Ah Ling was behind the whole thing.
I mean who else from Sally's past that would want revenge?
Today people are kind of doing that with Muslims.
I knew that these things were and are going on but I never really thought about them.
Some where there's human beings going through horrible things.
I mean what would I do if I thought about those things all the time?
This is a very good ending to the Sally Lockhart series.
In the other books, Sally is not always shown.
I so wanted to kill who ever was behind this whole thing.
She’s a single mother, competent, independent, and a successful and prosperous business owner.
The images of Victorian London are detailed and clear.
The contrasts between rich and poor, worker and owner are sharp.
I didn’t see that book as specifically YA either, though.My only criticism, and it’s not a strong one, is that I thought Sally should have been a bit quicker on the uptake in identifying the real force behind her troubles.
Real life, of course, is not like that.I highly recommend this book to all readers, especially those fond of Victorian mysteries.
It’s a great story.
The third installment of the Sally Lockhart mysteries series is even more complex than the other two entries.
It is also, unfortunately, a little too obvious, as I figured out the identity of the mysterious villain way before Sally did.
All seems to be well until Sally receives papers that state that she's being sued for divorce and custody of her child.
One problem: Sally never married anyone.
The problem compounds when her alleged husband starts taking all of her assets.So, Sally has to discover the origin of the cruel plot hatched against her.


This is the 3rd in the series that I've read. I liked the first two quite a bit, but I found this one very hard to get through. I think it's because the story is short on charm and long on political viewpoint. That's not what I was looking for in a YA novel. I also found some of the aspects of the bad guys pretty nauseating. I forced myself to finish it because I knew that once I put it down I'd never pick it up again. Too bad - Pullman had a good series going.
Socialism on the London docks for young adults
Londres victoriano, un montón de mujeres y socialismo a espuertas. Win-win-win en una novela que se supone que es young adult.
Those of us who know Sally also know she will do everything in her power to make sure that doesn't happen.The story I loved, the historical context was wonderful.
Sometimes my children listened to the story with me, they liked Harriet and thought it was funny when she called biscuits "bickets", after that they would say "bickets?" to ask for the story to be played during our travels.I love the way Pullman threads humor through his work and several times I found myself laughing out loud.
she's a real adult, and this means that sometimes terrible things happen, there's no resolution, and then....
maybe i like my political diatribes dripping with metaphors and cloaked in allegories, but i will give leeway for the fact that it IS technically Young Adult Fiction and sometimes you have to be a little more obvious for the kids.
but, finally i was clear on my emotions here - i really want to drink whisky with sally lockhart!
in the first book i thought i probably wanted to wrap her up in a blanket and tell her to just be a kid for a minute.
Mr. Pullman is a master writer, and a genius when it comes to storylines: this book especially was so full of suspense that I just wanted to keep reading.
It is definitely one of the most captivating books I have read in a long, long time.Also the characters are still wonderful.
Besides a wonderful story, amazing writing and some of the best characters ever, Mr. Pullman also offers a mirror for society.
And I must admit, I find him only the more wonderful for trying to tackle such desperately important issues in a children's book.
We not only follow Sally, but also many other POV characters, which makes the story very interesting.
The writing is superb: some review said Philip Pullman is the modern day Charles Dickens (though still writing fiction that takes place in the 1800s), and I would agree, but I would even go so far in saying that Pullman nails many aspects of writing better than Dickens, such as focus on important aspects of the story while still allowing for lovely little digressions (some of those lovely little digressions in Dickens become, well, not so lovely when there are so many of them).The tone of the story continues from The Shadow in the North to be dark and at times serious, but believe me, I was laughing out loud often.
The story is so real, and will make you laugh and cry and keep reading until the end.
"Tiger in the Well" has been perhaps my favorite book thus far of the Sally Lockhart series.
One of the best aspects of this series is that Sally continues to grow and change.
An interesting aspect of this book is Sally's reaction to the spreading of socialist ideas in England.
His personal politics have a strong, identifiable influence in the His Dark Materials trilogy, so it's not terribly surprising to see that influence in these books, as well.
Instead, you see her simply grow to become more accepting of other ideas, and understand that there is a need for change in how things are being run.
However, I felt it was rather overwritten, being far too long to maintain the urgency of the plot, and the villain was so obvious it was painful waiting for the protagonist, generally a very astute character, to catch up with the reader.
Overall I felt the book really lacked subtlety - the deus ex machina was so frequently foreshadowed it might as well have had flashing arrows pointing at it, and the political element to the plot, which I loved as an idea, soon got very wearing as you were repeatedly subjected to the same arguments, and on occasion were actually lectured by characters.
There are several things going on: Sally's persecution by a mysterious man, persecution of Jews emigrating from Russia and other eastern European countries into England, and the struggle of Socialists in Victorian England.
In the second, she learns independence (both economic and personal.) She also becomes aware that evil is not just violence, but the greed and power that is behind it.
This third book defines that evil.
She finally becomes aware of her own part in this evil.
The mystery is easily solved by anyone who has read the first two books long before Sally figures it out.
A magnificent woman!
That is how one character describes Sally Lockhart.
She is far ahead of the pack of Victorian lasses with their smelling salts and corsets.
Pullman makes her entirely believable.
The same cannot be said for her baby girl Harriet.
If only Pullman had made her just one year older, then I'd have gone along with her wonderfully willful and curiously adaptable character.
Still, the events both Sally & Harriet go through to survive disaster after disaster make for a very good adventure story at any age!
Absolutely fantastic and wonderful to behold, and I'm not even kidding...
this book is wonderful.
Especially for those strong ladies out their, independent and fighters...
yup, this book is for all of you because damn, it'll give you hope.Okay, so it's not an epic work of fantasy like "His Dark Materials" but this series in its own right, is brilliant, full of action and emotion and I can't deny the love I know I feel for it and for Sally and her fight throughout.However, all my other thoughts and ramblings about this one are in my blog, so go and check it out my lovelies!!
I'm still gobsmacked at the idea that this is a YA series.
The themes explored in these novels - the opium trade, human trafficking, exploitation of immigrants, socialism, early feminism - don't seem like anything my kids would have read in their teen years!
And my kids were pretty bright kids.
That said, this is an amazing series I wish I could point it out to all the Steampunk folks - "Look, this is real Victorian era grittiness!" This volume, "The Tiger in the Well", was a compelling, and in many places painfully difficult read.
SO much better than I remember it being, and small wonder: these plots are intricate, these motivations are adult. I was a very precocious reader, but these emotions were beyond me on my first encounter with The Tiger in the Well and as a result the book frustrated me. No longer!
I read it hoping for some redemption after the debacle which was Book the Second. I think I felt so betrayed by Pullman that I couldn't fairly assess this book on its own merits. I'm still mad at him.
Reread. Gripping and suspenseful read with many plot points skillfully woven to create a epic story.
what a great ending to the trilogy. socialism, social justice, passionate love and sewage. what more could i want?
so far, so awesome. can't wait to finish!update - was right. it was awesome. a feminist protagonist, socialism, human trafficking, all set in the 19th century.
I didn't realize until I was about five pages in that I had somehow ordered this book from the library before the second book in the series, but I was so hooked already that I didn't want to put it aside and wait.
TitW was so well plotted and fast paced, and I feel some of its gripping nature is due to the frustration and injustice that Sally faces.
Anyone who can read this without wanting to slap Mr. Parrish's silly little mustache (does he in fact have one?
I feel that he must) off his face, must be a robot.
Sally Lockhart, now twenty and the single mother of almost two year old Harriet, is happy in her comfortable home, which she shares with her friend and business partner, sixty-five year old Webster Garland, and young Jim Taylor, her very first friend in London.
But her happiness is short lived, and her home, her work and her whole life begin to crash down with the arrival of a divorce petition and a claim for the custody of Harriet from a man, whom she has never heard of.
