https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820924.Refuge
Another reading friend posted about it on her Instagram stories and it reminded me that the essay I read in the Writing Non-Fiction class I took, "The Clan of One-Breasted Women" comes from this book.
In that essay, Terry examines the facts of radiation fallout in the Nevada/Utah desert and the high occurrence of cancer in the women of her family.
So when it came up again in social media, I knew I had to have it.Last year, I read When Women Were Birds: Fifty-four Variations on Voice, which is almost exclusively focused on Terry's mother, and the blank journals she left behind when she died from cancer.
Williams is an especially confounding writer, and part of it has to do with her voice—it’s very assured, but in that certainty lie the seeds of alienation and annoyance.
Additionally, she tries too hard to wring some elemental truth from her prose, which, in many instances, results in a feeling of artifice.
On the other hand, and this is why she is so confounding, there are moments of sublimity, truth, and flat out dynamite writing that almost make the journey worthwhile.
She manipulates thematic elements throughout, balancing the concepts of “isolation” and “solitude” in a dialectical dance.
I hold tight hoping Terry Tempest Williams will devote an entire book to her grandmother.
This is a personal story about being part of a bad and a good world community, living in a world ultimately controlled by natural forces, and human realization or denial of these forces.
It is also a very personal story of the author's love of nature especially the lake and the birds of Utah, her Mormon religion, and, her grandmother's world religion.
I'll be reading more by Terry Tempest Williams.
So, of course, I wanted to read to understand more closely the mind of this mentor and I like the idea of the subtitle "An Unnatural history of Family and Place." I had not heard of Williams previously.
But this is a bittersweet and sacred story of one family's journey through losing those they(a mother, two grandmothers, and aunts to cancer) love.
Williams speaks for herself, her deep personal intimate feelings (which were some of the most moving parts of the book) and speaks for the others remaining.
How can one be thrilled with such a bittersweet book with death as an outcome?
And so familiar (yes I lived in Utah, yes with all my ancestors' pioneer histories, yes with the pervasive blessing and burden of Mormonism, yes with the inspiring and healing landscapes of mountain and desert, yes my mother died young of breast cancer) it was too painful to even cry through it.Williams' poetic style reminds me of the old time naturalists-- she is a keen observing soul out there in nature-- deeply woven into the natural world, intimate with the birds.Refuge is unique-- it came out of nowhere and knocked the wind out of me.
Lo mejor que he leído hasta ahora, duro y bello.
However, there is something about living on the edge of the Great Salt Lake and the Wasatch Mountain Range that makes you want to reflect on your life and what it means to be close to nature on a spiritual level.
Terry Tempest Williams's book, Refuge, is the perfect book for women who want to turn their thoughts inward, especially when it comes to our relationships with our mothers and daughters.
The most poignant part of the book for me is how Williams and her family dealt with her mother's cancer, her dying and the grief that comes after.
Her mother is dying of cancer and she is a scientist who studies birds near Great Salt Lake."The pulse of Great Salt Lake, surging along Antelope Island's shores, becomes the force wearing against my mother's body.
And when I watch flocks of phalaropes wing their way toward quiet bays on the island, I recall watching Mother sleep, imagining the dreams that were encircling her, wondering what she knows that I must learn for myself.
The light changes, Antelope Island is blue.
Mother awakened and I looked away."I would never, ever write something like that.
Oh, a difficult book. Heart-rending and heart-lifting.Refuge weaves together two tragedies: a catastrophic flood of the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge in Utah and the death of Williams's mother from cancer.Terry Tempest Williams is one of my hero-writers. The solid science of her naturalism is balanced by her mysticism. She writes desert prose from the desert: it can be harsh and unsparing, but there is so much beauty to be had.Recommended for grievers and bird-watchers.
this is no conventional book by a conventional author- it is written by a fierce nature lover and serious nature writer. though nature writing is not my favorite genre, tempest williams reached me in a way no author ever has. i've turned to this book like i would turn to a best friend over the past few years- it's always as good as i remember it.
Terry Tempest Williams is a local author with a transcendent story.
Part memoir, Utah history, Audubon guide, and observer, Williams tells the story of the rise of the Great Salt Lake in the 1980's and its destruction of the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge.
Alongside this historical and ornithological account, Williams relates her own search for refuge as her mother and grandmother die of cancer, Both "down winder" victims of the nuclear testing in Nevada during the 1950s and early 60s.
Williams prose is other worldy.
A definite must read for local 'birders', and those seeking to find their own refuge amidst loss in this fragile existence.
This book was listed as "suggested reading" for a nature-writing class that I took in college. The book is about the long, slow death of the author's mother from cancer. In Utah in the 50's, parts of the state were used for nuclear testing. Many people got cancer as a result. It's a sad book, but starkly realistic. Terry Tempest Williams is a naturalist, and I actually met her when I lived in Utah. She's lovely. This is a realistic American story of a family tragedy, how our environment can hurt us, and what we have to do in response.
In the same way that when someone is dying many retreat, I chose to stay."I finished The Hour of Land, late last summer and fell hard for Terry Tempest Williams and wanted to read everything she has written.
Well, nearly a year later, I am finally getting around to Refuge.
This was written nearly 25 years ago, but her prose just sings with strength and passion.
This one deals with her dying mother and the threatened survival of the Bear River Migratory Bird Refuge, at the Great Salt Lake.
“¿Por qué la muerte os resulta siempre tan sorprendente a los estadounidenses? ¿No os dais cuenta de que la danza y la lucha son la misma cosa?”
The writing is so beautiful and descriptive that I felt like I could see everything she wrote about. Why have I not been to the Bird Refuge? Maybe I need to venture out to the Sun Tunnels. This is a book with two stories that the author weaves together: the rise of Great Salt Lake and the impact on the wildlife, particularly the birds, is one story. The other is the rise of her mother’s illness. The way Williams puts it together is heartbreaking and moving.
Didáctica porque nos va hablando de las especies de aves que habitan el Gran Lago Salado, esa región de la America profunda, Utah, tan desconocida como misteriosa; comprometida porque cada perla de sabiduría es también una reivindicación ecológica y política; tierna porque narra cómo su madre afronta el diagnóstico de cáncer preparándose para morir mientras toda la familia se resiste a ello.🌾🌾🌾Una obra que tiene todo: momentos para indignarse, para aprender, para llorar, para reír, para reflexionar, para soñar, sentir el calor del sol y la brisa, darse un baño salado, dejarse llevar sin resistirse...
I finished Refuge at least two weeks ago and have spent a lot of time wondering why I didn't like it as much as I expected to.
Evidently the author and others who spend lots of time communing with the lake and its inhabitants don't use the article "the" when they refer to it.
I swear I could hear James Earl Jones saying, "Great Salt Lake" every time I read a sentence like that.
I was taught as a young girl not to 'make waves' or 'rock the boat'." Like Williams, I come from a family of Mormon pioneers, and my perception of our women is one of profound wisdom and strength.
Nevertheless I was pleasantly surprised how immediately familiar the physical and mental landscapes felt—I too experienced a rural upbringing, snugly sheltered by religious belief and close familial/ community bonds—while at the same time I was constantly struck by how differently my own response to such environmental factors have subsequently been.
And as over the last three months I’ve had two people very close to me—one just several years older than I, one several years younger—diagnosed with cancer, it inevitably echoed loudly through my own current emotional state as well.
This book is the sort of beautiful that makes your soul ache.
I've seen reviews criticize the dialogue as not sounding at all natural enough, and while I think those criticisms are indeed fair, I'll admit I hardly noticed, so swept up was I in the maternal relationships of the book, and of an ever-changing bird refuge as a metaphor for a family's wholeness.
I really haven't read a book that better encapsulates what it's like to watch a loved one pass from this world.
If you're struggling with the loss of a loved one, I highly recommend reading this book.
Even if you're not, haven't ever, I still highly recommend reading this book.
My copy of this book is covered with notes and underlined passages.
Williams uses her intimacy with nature to adeptly describe her intimacy with people, relationships, core beliefs, and life's meaderings.
I also have seen cancer death up-close with Jon's mom, and those chapters rang very true.
And I agree wholeheartedly with the belief that death can be a very sacred time.
The strength of the book is its objectivity.
That is not the case in the final chapters.
Whether I agree with Williams' political stance or not, I was offended at her dogmatic approach.

This series of essays is written by a woman who happens to be Mormon. The fact she is Mormon seems to do more with geography in this book, than by choice. It is a wonderful series of essays because she is a naturalist in writing. The Salt Lake and the environment around there take on almost a divine beauty in the way she describes it. There are some poignant, wonderful tender essays about the land, and her mother and her writing style is just that - tender.
This is a beautiful and powerful memoir of observations about birds, the Great Salt Lake, Mormons and cancer. It sounds like a random combination, but it isn't. She ties everything together and it makes a very coherent story about what it means for her to live in that part of the world as someone who cares about nature.
One of those books where you aren’t the same person once you’ve finished it. My boss said to me the other day that “she doesn’t waste your time”, and I couldn’t agree more. Every moment felt purposeful & poignant. Just a wonderful, honest book about grief & survival. I loved every second.
Wow, wow, wow. I finished this book a moment ago, and I pressed it to my chest and closed my eyes and listened to my heart beat against it. This is a book about grief, love, birds, acceptance, and the willingness to live life, even when you know pain. "Pain prepares us for peace."
Tempest is present to the pain of losing her mother, present to the details of life in the bird refuge, and in a kind of transcendental way, present to the divine within nature, as well as within her faith tradition.
“La paz de las cosas salvajes:Cuando la desesperación por el mundo se apodera de mí / y despierto de noche al menor ruido / asustado por cómo puedan ser mi vida y las de mis hijos, / voy a tumbarme donde el pato joyuyo / posa su belleza en el agua y la garza azulada / pesca.
/ Acudo a la paz de las cosas salvajes / que no gravan su vida con previsiones / de dolor.
Acudo ante las aguas tranquilas.
/ Y siento sobre mí las estrellas cegadas por el día / que aguardan con su luz.
After reading "Finding Meaning in a Broken World," or at least trying to, I was skeptical. I was worried that this book, too, would have too many loose ends, too much 'everything is everything' sentimentality. But no. This is a heart buried deep as a root for us to find thirty years after, when the Great Salt Lake is now receding rather than expanding, and it's meanings are all fermented in the best way, now. I loved this book. Mothers and lakes and birds. Loss and healing wrapped into place. A revealing of the secret matriarchy that exists in Mormonism.
Beautiful, soulful meditation on death, natute and the natural cycles of life. It's not as tight or elegant as TTW's later books as she was growing into herself as a writer still but you can already see the sublime genius she became at work here.
This book was too personal to talk about. I just want to say that if you are at all interested in a women's studies/nature studies/mormon studies memoir please find a copy.
