https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17280.The_Feynman_Lectures_on_Physics_Vol_3
jesus christ, why did I give this book 4 stars last year?
I recently realized that I've wasted 3 years getting a physics degree instead of picking up these books.
that is a rather depressing thought :)few quantum mechanics books don't start with the Schrodinger equation.
feynman follows a different path (of course).
I love how Feynman never gets too bogged down with the math, whenever he presents an equation, he finds ways to explain the physical meaning of it and you just go: "yes of course!
the equation MUST look that way!".
every physics major should read this book.
I finally understood the concept of duality after reading this.
After a long time (what was it, almost a year?) of reading three or four lectures at a time, I've finished at least a first pass through the Feynman Lectures!
There's no such thing as being done with these lectures (I'm already back into the first, skimming through things again) which seem to take more and more brilliant shades on with increasing intuition.
His friendly examples and ability to link disparate examples within physics together absolutely astounds.
I'm learning physics in a bad generation, I'm sure of it.
Reading Feynman's teachings makes me nostalgic for a community of particle physicists I've only ever met in pages.
Read the review for the Vol-I I just wrote.
Same holds here.
This set into me and I became a world famous scientist in due course of 15 years as well although I like to reserve such comments for every 2 years.
No devaluation of Feynman's personality since he was also a great musician and artist.
Well this is not a review about me, but the point is how much Feynman's books have passionated me.
Feynman's books are a way for anyone even if one is a luminary physicist like Weinberg.
Thats what he was as a scientist.
This is the first book in the series I purchased, my thinking I studied Physics I don't need the baby stuff....
Famous last words.
As I read I realised I needed to get back to my maths, and the baby stuff too.
My main interest buying this book was quantum physics, and trying to understand time.
Stephen Hawking and Lee Smolin had stirred interest, but I needed more.
Feynman's diagrams were a quandary, especially since I'm stuck in 3 physical dimensions and time.
so what better place to get more information than his lectures.
Defeated i purchased 1 & 2.
Feynman makes difficult concepts easy, and pushes you toward a deeper understanding of concepts you thought were trivial. Overall this is good, but it can be frustrating. For example, "I thought I understood refraction, but after reading Feynman's book I realize that I don't have a goddamn clue." These are the kinds of sentences you may find yourself uttering if you pick up these lectures. Still, the Puritan in me admonishes both of us that without pain, there can be no gain. Overall these are really excellent lectures. I particularly enjoy the one on brownian motion. Check it out.
Great introduction to quantum mechanics, assuming you already know a bunch of applied math/mathematical physics. Feynman is engaging and tries really hard to reach the first-time student of the subject, but the presentation and language are a bit dated now.
Read & Reread & read again..
Quirky approach to physics. Excellent as a supplement; I wouldn't recommend this as your first approach to physics.
Used these classic texts as a freshman physics major at New Mexico Tech. Very challenging books, but provide insights into the world of physics and the workings of the great mind of Richard Feynman!
I gave up this reading as this is what I did for the first volume of the series, https://www.goodreads.com/review/show....
I found interesting
This is an excellent set of physics lectures. Feynman was very talented at right to heart of the matter and making everything seem obvious.
Expensive, but wonderful explanations of Physics for the non-technical.
Very informative and very fun to read. I never imagined Feynman had such a powerful accent.
