https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1492337.Fighting_Caravans
While there is a great deal of fighting in this book--between the caravan trains and the Native American tribes--it is not a spaghetti western, nor does it really reach a high level of violence.
Both extremes is disingenuous to reality, but both also have sparks of truth within them.So, to get back to the book: I thought Grey did well at painting a picture that was not too clouded by any one way of thinking about history; that captured humanity as it was, and painted a picture of the harsh reality of the West.
Not all villains are evil, and not all good guys sport halos.Great book.
Clint Belmer lost his parents in a Indian raid when he was young. Now he makes his living guiding caravans past Indian country. His biggest fight will not be with his enemy but with the man trying to steal his girl.
The last book I read of any genre that I enjoyed as much as this was Little Big Man, which has some surface similarity with this book, though a much different tone.Fighting Caravans follows the life of Clint "Buff" Belmet from boy to man, the majority of his life taking place with the social milieu of the freight caravans which moved goods and people across the dangerous plains of the western frontier.
Zane Grey definitely deserves his place in the history of the western novel, and I will be reading more of his work.
I think Zane Grey is my favorite author of westerns.
He has a large body of excellent writing and mostly involve cowboys of the old west, while also inserting a bit of romance.
This story tells of the large caravans that carried goods of all kinds from one place to another and the hardships involved, including fighting off indians and outlaws.
It is also the story of two very young people (10 & 12) who traveled by caravan with their parents.
Their parents were killed, they were separated, and grew up looking for each other on the trails.
I love westerns. I love the cliche stories of strong men and women fighting for their lives in the West. From childhood I have adored Louis L'Amour and I once read a Zane Grey that I really disliked. I decided to give him one last chance and remembered why I didn't like his writing. His women are all weak and fawn over the men. The men are too stereotypical. Even though some of the fight scenes were ok, I just didn't get the feeling of the Old West that I love to read about in other, better, western writers.
Great bookGreat book, seems historically accurate. One of the best old west books I have ever read it gets to be just a little of a love story at one point though. Otherwise great book.
How many years since I read a western? Wow! It's a love story that barely surfaces above all the bloody adventures of massive caravans crossing the prairies in the mid 1800's, fighting Sioux, Comanches, Kiowa and Paiute tribes. The civil war rages but the caravans keep moving.
There was a lot of 'fighting' in this book, well what did I expect with the title eh? Kind of over the top I thought. The west made people crazy! Maybe that is why I love the whiskey.
Southwest
2  - 3 stars
2 ½ - 3 stars
Great story, I have always loved Zane GrayI have read westerns by Zane Gray since my father introduced me them as a young boy. I find them all good.
Until I read Louis L'Amour, Zane Grey was my favorite western author. This book was good, but not one of his best.
Any Zane grey is worth reading twice!
Quite a yarn. Grey had a real talent for story telling. Took a long time to cover all the history involved but well worth the time it needed.
