https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21414439-truthwitch
"I will kill you," he went on."No." The girl's eyes thinned; she pushed herself further upright and the moon streamed over her. "I d-d-d..." She coughed. Then wiped her mouth. "I don't think you will." Ah, this book. I went back and forth on the rating and I do want to say this: unlike the other highly anticipated January novel - Passenger - Truthwitch is a fast-paced, enjoyable adventure. However, I know picky fantasy readers will see right through this book.If you are looking for a light fant
However, I know picky fantasy readers will see right through this book.If you are looking for a light fantasy read with descriptions of dresses, balls, dancing, and an inevitable romance, look no further.
I will also note that I like the emphasis put on female friendship before everything else; I was a little disappointed that we didn't get a Safi/Iseult LGBT romance, but I'll settle for the next best thing.The only other interesting character is the villain - a blood monk called Aeduan.
Possibly the most eye roll-worthy thing of this book is the budding romance between Safi and Merik.
My full review can be found here: https://youtu.be/sFv_OsfgZKYTHIS WAS REALLY GOOD AHHH.
I HATE TO ADD TO THE HYPE POOL, BUT IT WAS REALLY GOOD.
Susan built up such a unique world with amazing characters.
I even liked the little romance that starts to build in this book!
I'm all for books with romances that aren't overwhelming.
My one complaint is that I found myself confused at times, because you're just expected to pick up on the different roles that the witches play.
Other than that I really enjoyed this story and I can't wait to see what's in store for the rest of this series!
Make room on your all-time favorites shelf: TRUTHWITCH is an instant new classic. It reminded me of why I started reading fantasy in the first place: its fierce and vibrant world, richly-drawn characters, and dazzling intrigue harkens to the best of Megan Whalen Turner, Robin Hobb, and Jacqueline Carey. And while it pays homage to the epic fantasies that have come before it, it also lays the foundation for a bright new chapter in the genre. I haven’t been so enthralled and inspired by a book since I first read Lloyd Alexander’s THE BOOK OF THREE. Do not miss out!
4.25 I love female friendships
I saw another author do this--give some insider info on the book via a review--and I thought it was a cool idea.Basically, the entire Witchlands series will be full of the stuff you've come to expect from me (if you've read the Something Strange & Deadly series or the Starkillers Cycle).
There's epic action, really high stakes, diverse lead characters, a huge world, and tense (tense!) romance(s).On top of that, Truthwitch has elemental magic and a chosen pair (of kickass girls!) who bring balance to the world.
;)At its heart, though, this book is about friendship--the epic friendships that transform your life.
I'm so very sad to have to admit this, but TRUTHWITCH really isn't working for me. The world-building is hazy, therefore, I feel confused and frustrated. I keep trying to make order of things in my mind, and it's exhausting. The writing is not horrible but it doesn't flow. Many have mentioned fast-pacing, but I crazily feel like this is super slow because of how much it asks for our undivided attention and quick understanding... when nothing is really detailed or explained.DNF at 25%. Can I blame the hype? I'm blaming the hype.
“Safi acted instantly – as did the monk. His sword swished from its scabbard; her knife came up. She clipped the edge of his blade, parrying it aside. He recovered and lunged. Safi lurched back. Her calves hit Iseult, yet in a single fluid movement, Iseult kneeled – and Safi rolled sideways over her back. Initiate. Complete. It was how the girls fought. How they lived. He was good. The best fighter she’d ever faced. But Safi and Iseult were better.” This book, to put it simply, is wildly entert
Is that sex-positivity in a YA novel?Wait, these female characters actually have…SELF CONFIDENCE?They don’t need men to save them?
They don’t let the adults around them dictate their lives?
It has singlehandedly restored my faith in Young Adult Fantasy novels, of which I’ve read many and enjoyed...very few.
You know, the kind that just bubbles up out of your mouth unbidden, and for whatever reason – maybe because you forgot you were in public, and it seems like you’ve done something to anger the gods, because these embarrassing outbursts always happen to you in public – it doesn’t sound like your normal laughter, but more like something that might belch forth from a drunken pilot whale’s blowhole?
“If you wanted to, Safiya, you could bend and shape the world.”   Dear Susan Dennard,I love you. Je t'aime. Σ'αγαπώ. Te quiero. Ti amo. Ich liebe dich.You are the sunshine to my stormy day. The medicine to my flu. The butter to my bread. The Saturday to my hectic week. The oasis to my desert. The strawberry topping to my chocolate ice-cream. The lyrics to my music.The answer to my prayers. For it was the work of Book Gods that sent you to my life. I am going to celebrate our acquaintance by sa
But Safi doesn't want to be a pawn, nor help the ruthless ruler she despises.
Iseult on the other hand, her Threadsister and a pariah, wants to find the place where she belongs.
Hunted and on the run, they come across allies and foes, they fight sea monsters and corrupted magic and trained assassins, they discover love and make decisions that will eventually determine the outcome of the war.
Safi is the hot-headed one, with a short temper and a big mouth that always looks for a fight.
Iseult on the other hand is the reasonable one, who never belonged anywhere, who was never wanted nor needed.
5/3/18 - ON SALE for $2.99:https://amzn.to/2HLhMFYReviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsI don't know about the rest of you, but when one of my favorite authors recommends a book or another author, I AM THERE. How much more so when the recommended author is the real life bff of said author? How much more so when the book in question is meant to be (at least in part) an expression of that friendship?In her acknowledgements, Dennard says: Friendships can be just as epic as romances . . .  That's lovely,
5/3/18 - ON SALE for $2.99:https://amzn.to/2HLhMFYReviewed by: Rabid Reads4.5 starsI don't know about the rest of you, but when one of my favorite authors recommends a book or another author, I AM THERE.
In fact, many suspect--have suspected from the beginning--that the treaty is nothing more than cover for the emperor to build his armies under the guise of law keeping while undermining any potential threats.Change is coming, and our girls are at the heart of it.Enter Merik, the prince of a once world power, now decimated by past wars.
This is easily one of the worse fantasy books I’ve ever read.
Iseult returns home after departing six years previously, ten pages later she is chased off by an angry mob.
That felt like a bit of a plot whole along with the weird fact that the she’s never been attacked before in other parts of the city just seemed like a major oversight.
I mean, I need to know these things very early on if I’m going to carry on reading.
It’s a complete shambles in terms of character, plot and its world.
Mostly, I just felt this was super narratively all over the place because it’s trying so hard to be A Cool Fantasy Book – it expects you to enjoy the journey of several characters with several different countries but also doesn’t really make you care about this world or, more importantly, any of those characters or relationships.
Like, I think he has potential, but he currently feels like he’s being engineered to scare the shit out of me, and he honestly doesn’t because Safi spends so much of her time lacking any fucking common sense and not getting away from him.I also want to talk about the relationship focus in this, because I feel like that aspect was really disappointing?
It's probably the first very very hyped book that has gone so far above and beyond my expectations that I can't even DEAL (six of crows is another but this went EVEN ABOVE THAT FOR ME)I loved all the characters, their relationships, the plot the world building, the magic system, EVERYTHING so much.
I didn't realize I loved the characters but then THINGS GOT CRAY AND IT GOT EVEN BETTER.There's so much to love here - a focus on friendships, wonderfully lovable characters, a really interesting magic system (that I wished there had been even more of!), a great plot with fabulous setup for the next books, and a really interesting world.Time to IMMEDIATELY reread this book.
Although the world building was a bit confusing and clunky at the beginning, Truthwitch more than made up for that with its characters, twists, and turns.
Rarely do I feel so instantly attached to an entire group of characters like I did with this book.
Even though I originally got this ARC at BEA, I'm glad I waited to read it because I cannot imagine having to wait over a year for the next installment.
A year will be painful enough.
I am already eagerly anticipating my re-read of this book so I can catch all of the things I'm sure I missed this first time and to revisit these characters.
"I guard the light-bringer,And protect the dark-giver.I live for the world-starte,And die for the shadow-ender.My blood, I offer freely.My Threads, I offer wholly.My eternal soul belongs to no one else.Claim my Aether.Guide my blade.From now until the end." I AM OBSESSED WITH TRUTHWITCH. It was on my  top ten most anticipated releases of 2016  and it DID NOT disappoint one bit. I can already tell that this series is going to become one of my favorite series of all time because, guys, this world
I appreciated how fast-paced this book was but it felt like Susan Dennard just thrusted us into this world of witches and magic and expected us to know this universe and how it works right off the bat.
when it comes to taking in different worlds that are introduced to me in books, so unfortunately the beginning did not really work out for me the way I hoped it would.
For me, it felt like I opened up the book and started right at the middle of the story with everything going on at once without any prior knowledge as to 
Due to the severe lack of worldbuilding, there is NO PLOT.Our main character, Safi is a super special snowflake because she is a Truthwitch and can discern truth from lies so everybody wants her for wars or whatever.
I hope this is a thing (hide spoiler)] I know he spent the majority of the book chasing after Safi and Iseult (sorry, I don't count this as a spoiler because the entire plot is "Safi gets chased"), but I really liked his inner dialogue and his witchery is badass.I kept hearing about how amazing the friendship was in this book and I was super hyped about this.
3.5 stars.I did really enjoy this novel. But for me I just could not connect with anything. From the names to the places everything was just extremely confusing to me. What i did love is this novel is a mixture between the grisha trilogy by Leigh Bardugo my FAV author and Aang the last airbender! :D Better review to come soon!
For those of you that love super intricate world building and plot lines, this is your book....I read someone's review that said this book was a light fantasy read for people who wanted to read about dresses & balls and that picky fantasy readers would want something more complex.
There are plenty of light fantasies I love but I've read enough of those to recognize this as more.Ohhhh, and the romance is very, VERY slow burn in the beginning which means you actually learn who the characters are as people and fall for them as who they could be together instead of just giving us one simple glance and poof they have attraction.
Just as good, if not better, the second read through. Now on to Windwitch!
3.5? 4?For the positive, I love the magic system, the world, and the overall story.For the negative, the love story was a bit too sickly sweet for me and the writing was not good.I will continue the series!
3.75⭐Now that’s what I call a pleasant little surprise. I loved this book. The reason why it’d taken me an entire year to finally decide to read it was because I’d already banked on it disappointing me. What a mistake that was. I loved the overall plot and were it not for the gross lack of world building, it would’ve been a solid 4.5⭐ read.But what it lacked in the WB, it more than made up for it with its characters. AMZING CHARACTERS! Each one more intriguing than the previous, particularly the
I loved the overall plot and were it not for the gross lack of world building, it would’ve been a solid 4.5⭐️ read.But what it lacked in the WB, it more than made up for it with its characters.
I’m hoping book two will shed some light into some of these questions, at the very least, because I’d hate for my love for this (promising) series to be tainted simply by a lack of explanation.
Here are five reasons that will make Truthwitch your next book-hungover-worthy read.1.
WORLD-BUILDINGThis novel shows why I love fantasies.
FRIENDSHIPTruthwitch is without a doubt the best YA fantasy novel with strong focus on female friendship.
Truthwitch is what I call a real page-turner and since I haven’t read one in months, I’m very grateful for this book.
Thank you Susan Dennard!Truthwitch is a very promising start to new YA fantasy series.
It has all three aspects that I require in good fantasy novel (world-building, storytelling, characters) mastered perfectly and I can’t wait to get my hands on sequel!MORE REVIEWS ON MY BLOG 
The strong friendship between Safi & Iseult totally made this book what it is -- how often do you see a friendship that's more important than the romance?!
All of the chasing/fleeing really helped the pacing at least!So it took effort to get through everything and figure out the world, but there seriously is SO MUCH POTENTIAL here for the sequel.
I really did like the magic, the characters, and the world, so I'm hoping that this series just needed to find its footing and that the sequel will be awesome.
They are best friends and maybe more (magically speaking not romantically speaking) and they are incredibly fierce in their protections of each other.There are plenty of other things to like in the story though.✧ Interesting new magic.✧Some of the magic reminded me a little of the Grisha series by Leigh Bardugo.
I don’t necessarily want it to overshadow the entire story but I love the slow burn of a romance if it is done right and so I very much enjoyed the dance between Safi and Merik.
I usually get like that when I'm extremely bored, and so I caught myself doing it a lot as I was reading Truthwitch: knowing that I need to finish this, but being bored out of my mind, and so compelled to scratch away at the patience of anyone near me until I'm very firmly told to shut up.Truthwitch, for me, absolutely bombed; it was boring, the characters were flat, the prose was weak, and above all, it may as well have been written in Amharic for how well I understood it.
All of these things are very important parts of Truthwitch's world-building as a whole, but they remain a total mystery at the end of the book.
FULL REVIEW POSTEDCan I just get a big HELL YES because this has been one of the only books I have genuinely enjoyed in a while and im v impressed by susan Dennard, you got me interested, lady, im coming back for more(s) - The world, while confusing initially, is really thought out and developed - Culture, history, politics, magic, all really well done- I really enjoyed how the plot was intricate and the story revolved around that- There were multiple POVS (yes!!!) and they all became connected
FULL REVIEW POSTEDCan I just get a big HELL YES because this has been one of the only books I have g
I really liked the book - the beginning was a little hard for me to get into, mainly because the two protagonists do something I thought was foolish.
In the world, there are various types of witches and the two main protagonists are both witches - Safiya is a Truthwitch, she can tell when someone isn't being truthful and Iseult is a Threadwitch, she can see a person's threads which relate to their moods.
Well the Bloodwitch is after Safiya and Iseult and they go on the run.
Truthwitch is a story about two characters, Safiya and Iseult.
Right from the start, we're thrown into some serious action, with Safiya and Iseult running from a bloodwitch, who has smelled the truth of Safiya's Magic and will stop at nothing to capture her and use her as a pawn in his own game.
I was so invested in the story and the moment I started Truthwitch, I could not out it down.
Besides Safiya and Iseult, we had prince Merik, windwitch and ships captain who only wants the best for his people, to ensure that there is food for everyone and that they can once again, have beautiful lands.
Between that and the quick, exciting pace of most of the story, Truthwitch will find a large fan base, particularly among teenage and young adult women who like fantasies with kickass heroines and hot guys (especially if they're princes).* * * * *Initial post (after reading the first third of the book):The first 30 or 40% of this upcoming fantasy novel is [was] available on NetGalley, so I downloaded and read it last night.
But I just really need to tell you that I LOVED this book.
Oh my god I haven't felt the friendship feels so strongly since Code Name Verity which is one of my favorite books ever.
What a page-turner -- so magical, fierce and overflowing with characters who will inspire you to be braver, kinder, courageous and to love genuinely and with all your heart.
The magic system and the different witchery and things such as that were a lot for my brain to absorb/be patient with but then things really clicked and I COULD NOT PUT THIS BOOK DOWN AT ALL.
Cinda Williams Chima gave this book 5 stars. So obviously I need it.
