https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/420404.Yertle_the_Turtle_and_Other_Stories
A really good titular story!  COWABUNGA, DR. SEUSS!  And the turtles, of course… all turtles are free.  As turtles and, maybe, all creatures should be, It’s said that Yertle the Turtle exemplifies Hitler, and while I have no doubt of that,......I think that he could be King Nimrod (from Tower of Babel’s story) as well, but again,......I think that Yertle the Turtle exemplifies all tyrants, cruel to their own people; and fools, wanting to be higher than anybody else.Yertle the Turtle was king of

I had read many Dr. Seuss books over the years, since I am a huge fan of his work! Now, I had finally come back to one of my childhood favorite stories of all time, “Yertle the Turtle and Other Stories” and I still enjoy it to this very day!There are a total of three stories in this book which includes “Yertle the Turtle,” “Gertrude McFuzz” and “The Big Brag.” Yertle the Turtle In this tale, Yertle the King of all the Turtles, wanted to have a throne where he could see everything from high above
Now, I had finally come back to one of my childhood favorite stories of all time, “Yertle the Turtle and Other Stories” and I still enjoy it to this very day!There are a total of three stories in this book which includes “Yertle the Turtle,” “Gertrude McFuzz” and “The Big Brag.”
I enjoyed all of the stories in this book as each story shows a different take on characters becoming too self-absorbed into themselves in certain situations, such as “Yertle the Turtle” showing the consequences of letting the power go to your head, “Gertrude McFuzz” which shows that you should just be yourself and “The Big Brag” which shows that there are better things to do than just bragging.
I read it over and over again, memorizing every line, and taking in every lesson about vanity that Dr Seuss was teaching.
As an adult I found a whole new appreciation for the book, as I learned that the character of Yertle was based on Adolph Hitler.
Seuss used Yertle to demonstrate the rise of fascism in Europe, and show is distaste for it.
In the final lines of the story Seuss's true intent comes out as he proclaims that all turtles and every creature should be free.
That's quite a bit of political theory for a children's book, don't you think?
This one probably requires a five year old to fully grasp the lessons about pride that are inherent in the mile-high Yurtle, the far-sighted worm and that silly long-tailed bird. But it is still fun to read and one day will probably help me to explain a lesson…
Huzzah!I love it when Dr. Seuss gets preachy.Now, I know my fair share of Dr. Seuss books, but for some reason I'd never heard of Yertle the Turtle until a colleague of mine said I should read it when I teach governments next year.To that colleague: thanks a lot.
In fact, I might do that this year as a little review.Yertle is the absolute monarch defined.
It's his power becoming absolute and corrupting.
...Of course, I'm not sure that that particular method would work for turtles since they would just pull their head back into their shell.Firing squad.
Sorry Yertle.
I repeat, a children's book.
A. Children's book.
A. Children's book.
However, Dr. Seuss embodies Adolf Hitler's invasion of Europe using a turtle and a pond.
I KNOW!!!
BRILLIANT!!!
T_TAnd it's poetic too!Here's a part of an article from Wikipedia about the book:"Seuss has stated that the titular character Yertle represented Adolf Hitler, with Yertle's despotic rule of the pond and takeover of the surrounding area parallel to Hitler's regime in Germanyand invasion of various parts of Europe."This is a YouTube link for the story with narration: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gqjEst...Hope you enjoy it as much as I did.
Great stories by Dr. Seuss that are relevant to adults as well as children.
The concepts of not making yourself better at the expense of others and the idea that you are not necessarily better than someone else or that you should be happy with who you are are fundamental lessons everyone should take to heart.Overall, it's an engaging read that really has adult themes while still being appropriate for children.
It's not our girls' favorite of his stories, but it is one of mine.This book was featured as one of the selections for the March 2015 Dr. Seuss reads for the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Be kind to others.Be happy with yourself just the way you are. Dont try to be someone you are not. Dont be greedy.Be humble.I just LOVELOVELOVE this one! I cant believe that I dont own a copy!
***Rated by my son***
My brother got this book from a book giveaway at his school. It was a very funny and good book.
I will be rating this book by the individual stories.Yertle the Turtle: 5 StarsI really loved this story because it showcases the story that people can relate to in real life especially very selfish people.
If you ask for help do not take advantage of those who are helping you and be thankful with what you have in your life.Gertrude McFuzz: 4.5 StarsI enjoyed this short story but the reason why I didn't love it like the others is because the plot is typical and has been used so many times in our history.
Enjoyed this collection of three stories, the theme this time seems to be about ego.Yertle is a turtle that is the king of all he sees, one day he realises that if he was higher up he would see more and because of that he would rule over more land.
so he makes a throne out of turtles and like all good leaders he abuses those at the bottom.the next story is about some bird with a rubbish tail and who is jealous of another bird who has a pretty tail.
Nice collection of short stories from the good Doctor. Each has a little moral, but so entertaining it never feels preachy.
What an amazing book. It follows a Turtle King that was written from Hitler but honestly I think this cruel Turtle King could be many people in power. Standing on people regardless of their pains. I highly recommend this book to kids of all ages. In fact, adults could take more from these stories.
We got a jump on Dr. Seuss' birthday in period Kahn today, reading The Lorax and Yertle the Turtle.
Yertle the Turtle and Other Stories is targeted for older, more fluent young readers.You know that I do enjoy reading books aimed at readers younger than myself…and every year those numbers keep getting bigger and bigger.
Each with their own style of hair as they ride the waves.The Stories"Yertle the Turtle" is a cautionary tale about aiming too high, especially on the backs of others…as Mack can attest.
Again, the rhyme has its rough spots, but I do adore Dr. Seuss' storytelling techniques for getting another moral tale across with laughter.The Cover and TitleThe cover is a grass green background with a white cloud and the title and author's name in white.
Man Yertle the Turtle's some good stuff.
I'll let the master tell his own story beginning from the point where Yertle threatens to stack thousands of turtles one on top of the other so that, from atop the stack, he can become king of everything he surveys:But, as Yertle, the Turtle King, lifted his handAnd started to order and give the command,That plain little turtle below in the stack,That plain little turtle whose name was just Mack,Decided he’d taken enough.
Unlike our bedtime read of the too-long The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins which touched on similar themes, Sigourney asked for numerous repeat tellings of Yertle.
Minear.Yertle, the despot king turtle, decides he wants to increase his kingdom.
His own lust for power ends up being his literal downfall.The second story, "Gertrude McFuzz" is about a bird who is jealous of another bird with a more beautiful tail.
She goes to great lengths to increase the beauty of her tail but loses the ability to fly in the process.
She has to learn to be happy with who she is the way she is.The final story is "The Big Brag" which reminds me of Sean and his best friend.
'Yertle the Turtle' -- possibly the best book ever written on the subject of turtle stacking." Ever since I saw that episode, years ago, I've wanted to read Yertle the Turtle, not so much for the sake of reading it, but to better appreciate the Simpsons joke.
Well, I just read the book, and indeed my appreciation for the joke has increased.
I'm sure if I read this book at age 5, what with 20 years of nostalgia, I'd rank it a 5.
This book contains three stories: Yertle the Turtle , a story about a turtle king whose ambitions turn a little too high;  Gertrude McFuzz , who is jealous of her friend's tail and gets herself into a mess because of it, and  The Big Brag , a story about two animals who argue about who is best, ending with a very wise worm.---The message of these stories is to be content with what you are and have—that you are special the way you are and that there's no need to do silly things or to argue about
This book contains three stories:
Yertle the Turtle
, a story about a turtle king whose ambitions turn a little too high; 
Gertrude McFuzz
, who is jealous of her friend's tail and gets herself into a mess because of it, and 
Some of Dr. Seuss's rhyming books are better than others, and I loved this one.
The meter is perfect and pleasantly slipped off my tongue as I read it to my son.
It wasn't annoyingly hard to read like Fox in Socks and some other books of his; it was a pleasure to read and is perfect for reading out loud.
This book was alright.
Of course Dr. Seuss is known for putting political morals inside pretty much all of his books, so I think that it was easier to read because it wasn't completely toned down for young readers.
I enjoyed "Yertle the Turtle" out of the other stories because at the end when Yertle the King was no longer king, it showed Mack (the one who kicked the king off his throne) on the rock showing that he may get greedy and make another throne out of helpless turtles.
There is a lot between the lines that don't jump out to you, but if you carefully analyze his works you'll see the relation to political morals.
I remember reading this one at my grandma's house, and also at my house growing up. I read it over and over. My favorite of the longer Seuss books, and my younger son says that he likes it a lot, too. It has 3 separate stories. Yertle is the king of all that he can see, so he makes other turtles pile up so he can stand on their backs (I read somewhere that this story was Seuss's commentary about Hitler).
Stories are still a bit on the long side for my 4 month old, but she's a trooper and stayed with me until almost the end of the Yertle the Turtle story -- fidgeting only when the story became, in her opinion, two pages too long. This is one we'll definitely pull off the shelf again when she's older.
Yertle the Turtle is a tale of the megalomania of leadership, false consciousness, ensuing class oppression and the revolutionary role of the proletariat told and illustrated by the inspired labor artist, Theodor Seuss Geisel.God knows, it changed my life!
Gotta love Dr. SeussAnd this one is in rhyme with a moral.
Really funny.. I loved it..
one book down, four to go #cramathon
"Then again, from below, in the great heavy stack,Came a groan from that plain little turtle named Mack.“Your Majesty, please .
I don’t like to complain,But down here below, we are feeling great pain.I know, up on top you are seeing great sights,But down at the bottom we, too, should have rights.We turtles can’t stand it.
Our shells will all crack!Besides, we need food.
We are starving!” groaned Mack."Beautiful little story to be read.
Even though it looks like it is for just for children, but it has a great meaning that it should include adults as well.
Contentment and humility - they're hard to get, and hard to prescribe to those who need it. So, why not through story? Like his story of the sneetches (which teaches tolerance), the story of Yertle the Turtle and the others that follow it in this book winsomely present a moral lesson - be content with what you have, don't envy, and don't brag. Rather than using typical exotic creatures and settings, Seuss sets these stories in our real world with real animals. But the same old catchy rhyme and rhythm are built in throughout.
Title: Yurtle the Turtle and Other StoriesAuthor: Dr. Seuss Illustrator: Genre: Fable Theme(s): Politics, Animals Opening line/sentence: On the far-away island of Sala-ma-sound, Yertle the Turtlewas King of the pond.
Though the extra material likely won't appeal to the picture book audience, the writing is accessible enough so that slightly older readers--and their parents--will be engaged by such observations as Yertle's resemblance to Hitler.
Picture Books; Stories in rhyme; Humorous storiesProfessional Recommendation/Review #2: Mary Hynes-Berry (Children's Literature) Every few years Random House reissues the various Dr. Seuss tales including this one, which dates back to the 1950s, before his Cat in the Hat easy-reads, and why shouldn t they?!
