https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425704.Weeds
Subsistence living is hard just attending to food and shelter.
The focus is on the inner nature of Judith Pippinger as she develops from free-spirited childhood through all the mood swings of childbirth and the burden women often acquire serving a family.
It required grueling hard work to live and Judith's nature was carefree only about three chapter's.
Everything about nature is beautifully written.
If Sylvia Plath were the main character in Little House on the Prairie it might resemble this book.
REAL, but little sunshine.
Recently read Wilma Dykeman's THE TALL WOMAN that I think has similarities, but that book ended on a more uplifting note.
This is well-written and moving, but in an awful way that makes me sad for the way people's potential shrivels away when they're trapped in a life too small for them.
Toiling all day every day for such small returns can be soul-crushing, and it would be easy to think of one's life as wasted and hopeless.
The only two people in the book with any sort of self-awareness or the ability for reflection are Judith and Jabez Moorhouse.
Plenty of people choose to become farmers and find joy and fulfillment in such a life, but all of these backwater country folk seem simply not to have the capacity to realize they're all very small and unhappy and would be better off doing something else.This bias is, of course, very influential in the overall attitude of Judith towards her life.
First let me say what I found GOOD about this book: Kelley was an excellent writer.
I was often caught up in the story and loved many of the descriptions of Kentucky, and everyday life as well as the presentation of the main character, Judith.
Well, Kelley didn't KNOW these people at all, and it comes across in her book very strongly.
The one preacher she features in the work is clearly not a man of God. Kelley's lack of her own faith is clear in her writing, as is her sense of superiority to the Kentucky farmers she so briefly lived near.
A depressing book about a young Kentucky farm girl in the nineteen teens with a lot of promise--she has energy, intelligence, and drawing ability.
However, like all the other girls she knows, she marries early, has children, and has to deal with extreme poverty.
Although she was born in Canada and spent time in Greenwich Village with Sinclair Lewis and Helicon Hall with Upton Sinclair, she married an artist and moved to a farm in Kentucky.
Kelley only had the one novel published in her lifetime because she was too busy taking care of her family and the various farms.
This naturalist/feminist novel first published in 1923 takes place in Scott County, Kentucky.
A friend who is a local history buff told me that the story, centered in an impoverished farming community, was set in northern Scott County.
Perhaps it's just my civic pride, but I find it hard to believe that there was ever such a backward, isolated community in our county.
Judith Summers Kelley worked for, and was strongly influenced by, Sinclair Lewis.
Her friends were many of the feminists, suffragists and political activists of that era so her novel has historical and thematic interest.

Mom read this is one of her learning in retirement classes...there's Boones mentioned in it.
It must be interesting...I hope they aren't inbreeding.
Well, I finished it and the Boones didn't come up again, so that may be for the best.
It's about a Kentucky woman who is full of life and then she starts having children--today she'd be a working woman on the pill.
Anyway, I wouldn't necessarily recommend this one even though it was interesting.
If you're really into poor folks at the turn of the century and day to day life and how depressing that can be, you might enjoy it.
Really nice book, however depressing, about the ways society can trap families in systems of poverty and suffering for generations, with little hope of escape. Not an uplifting novel, but well-written and interesting throughout.
http://tymelgren.com/books/may2013.html
