https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44688.Magician_s_Gambit
Somewhere in the middle of book three is when I start to wonder: does anyone out there actually read a standard heroic journey myth with most of their attention on the main character?
It's hardly a spoiler if I tell you he's going to tromp in and out of every kingdom on the continent before heading off to fight the final battle.No, it's not the hero who's the key player in the heroic journey.
The real action's off on the sidelines, where your cranky old sage and your bitter, sardonic guide are engaged in a game of one-upmanship via one-liners.(I will not write Belgarath/Silk slash.
I will not write Belgarath/Silk slash.
But, better late than never, and his sorcerer training has finally begun.One writing tic that Eddings displays—Belgarath scratches his beard about every second page!
However, I know that she is not abandoned permanently, as Eddings has very obviously telegraphed her role as future love-interest for Garion.Love the religious fanatic who is actually confronted by his god and told in no uncertain terms to quit judging others and get on with making himself a better person.
Eddings takes some pointed jabs at fanaticism which endears him to me.
I hope to read the fourth book at some point this summer!
So I didn't notice a lack of female protagonists in books I read, because none of these people were like me anyway.As an adult, however, I'm more aware of the imbalance, so I was completely delighted to (re)discover that Ce'Nedra's status as a POV character--one of only two in the Belgariad, if I'm not mistaken--begins in book 3.
That's wonderful.One of the things I'm really enjoying in these re-reads is being reintroduced to a character and suddenly remembering their whole story.
I flew through this & enjoyed every minute. A few more characters are added, a couple are subtracted. They really needed to be & I enjoyed those moments immensely. Eddings might not write horses as well as some authors, but he occasionally pays attention to them, which is nice. They're not just cars with hooves, although I certainly wish we could clear up our lameness issues as fast as he can! On to the next!
Review will come after book five
The Belgariad has been beloved by me since I was a kid, but having read many more books of as many genres and authors since then, I've realized that Mr. Eddings authorship leaves much to be desired.
If it really takes Garion and friends weeks and months to travel around, then why don't Polgara and Belgarath use the time to teach Garion about sorcery?
Questions and problems like these have really been bothering me in this read through.
Anyway, despite all these problems, The Belgariad remains one of my all time favorite series.
It is almost his signature, and none of his characters personify that more than the quick wit and dry humor of the weasel faced Drasnian spy and thief, and occasional businessman Silk.
This book, the third volume of the Belgariad, Silk gets to have a showdown with his nemesis, the Dagashi agent known to Garion as Brill.The third book picks up immediately where the second ended.
We’ll see two duels here, the first I mentioned earlier, with Silk and Brill and another one with Belgarath and a disciple of Torak that ends with devastating results.
In this book, our heroes continue on their quest to unite the races of men and cast the Ring of Power into the fires of-wait, wrong book.
The other central characters continue to do their thing, none of them seem to change much as this series evolves, but they are fun characters so this also doesn't bother me.
The party also briefly meets a woman named Taiba towards the end.
She doesn't really play a role in this book, but it's strongly implied that she too will join the party before too long.The writing remains weak in places, and there are some minor plot contradictions and disconnects, mostly towards the beginning of the book.
1. Too many allusions to facts unknown to the reader. I understand that it should all come together in the finally book, but I will forget most of these details by the time I get there.2. The skill of magic comes to Garion way too easy. Belgarath and Aunt Pol constantly walk around with their mouths agape at how amazing this guys is. 3. The ending was too much of Deus ex machina for my liking. 4. Not bad, but not great. I still have hope that in the end I will have an Aha! moment
3.5 stars. Another good installment in the Belgariad. The plot continues to move forward at a nice clip without much slowing. One final note: I listened to the audiobook narrated by Cameron Beierle and he did an excellent job with the series.
3.5 stars. Another good installment in the Belgariad. The plot continues to move forward at a nice clip without much slowing. One final note: I listened to the audiobook narrated by Cameron Beierle and he did an excellent job with the series.
Sve manje mi se sviđa ovaj serijal.
Stalno očekujem nešto da se desi, neki preokret, ali ništa.
Nastavlja kao i dve prethodne knjige, niti se poboljšava niti pogoršava.
Vrlo retko mi se desi da mi je potpuno svejedno šta će se desiti likovima, kao što je slučaj sa ovom knjigom.
I taman kad se desi nešto uzbudljivo (doduše u ovoj knjizi se desilo jednom ili dva puta) i pomislim konačno se nešto dešava i srce mi brže zalupa od uzbuđenja, to se završi za dve stranice i dalje nastavlja istim tempom.
Neki odgovori likova pa i čitavi dijalozi su poprilično otrcani i iritantni, kao npr.
If possible, even better than the first two books in the series. Things are speeding up, now that Garion's gotten past the initial shock and denial, and it's fascinating as the party of travellers grow to include some more crucial (and extremely fun) new characters. The only downside is Ce'Nedra, who is an absolute pain, but even she can be charming when she wishes to be. It's exciting to watch as Garion begins to realize his talent and potential.
A meandering middle volume with much too little plot and overly simple and small advancement of the same group of adventurers endlessly traveling to dull locations. Only the final 30 pages were interesting. I hope to find the next volume of more interest.
Basically I'm trusting in the author to fulfill everything in this story, neatly tying all the loose ends, so that I can then say, "damn that was epic." I was a little scared when I realized that there are going to be more characters joining/leaving.
The way Edding writes woman and how his male characters might come off with the standard machosim (macho-ism, maybe?) might irritate some readers, however I think he is just going along with what he decided with.
I enjoy the way Edding's works his magic, It's vague enough that you cannot pin it down to concrete limitations and I like that.
The narrator has been annoying me ever since I started listening to Pawn of Prophecy and once Ce’Nedra stayed at Prolgu and I had to listen to Relg ranting at Garion, rather than Ce’Nedra and Garion squabbling, I found I’d simply had enough.
I know the story picks up, and if I continued I’m sure I would have started enjoying it again.
However, my health is currently bad, I’m very tired and have started listening to The Grey King as a read along with a couple of other bloggers, so this one has kind of been squeezed out.Magician’s Gambit David Eddings The Belgariad, Book 3 Audiobook DNFThe Belgariad:1.Pawn of Prophecy 2.Queen of Sorcery 3.Magician’s Gambit 4.Castle of Wizardry 5.Enchanters’ End Game
This was the weakest of the Belgariad books so far.
Most of the book seemed like a rambling Dungeons and Dragons game filled with random encounters and new, made-up monsters described on the spot and forgotten about just as quickly.
I'm not really sure why the book was titled Magician's Gambit.
There wasn't much of a gambit at all.
Perhaps David Eddings should have named this book, "A Chorus Line of Gods and Random Monsters." At least then I'd know what I was going to run into.The series still has life in it, though, and I'll press on.
I’ve now read plenty of stories about nameless orphans etc who turn out to be the missing bloodline to the throne who then go on to battle unimaginable (except that of many a fantasy writer) evil to save the world.
Personally I absolutely loved the Belgariad series of books and found them to be enthralling and exciting.
In particular I loved the characters and thought them to be some of the most well rounded and clearly defined I’d ever read.
But given that Eddings had five books to do this I would have expected nothing less (mind you some authors can’t even manage that!)
Once more I feel the need to ask, "Is Garion an idiot?
How can he possibly have no clue about who he is and what his mission will be?" I mean, for goodness' sake.
That's my only real complaint, though.
Also, since Eddings doesn't really do emotions at all, I got kind of irritated with Ce'Nedra and her random outbursts of crying or whatever, because I was like, why the heck are you crying?
I feel like Eddings did a good job in keeping them separate and making them all recognizable and unique from each other.
Review to come! :D
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
David Eddings'in Belgariad serisinin üçüncü ktiabı. Seri beş kitaptan oluştuğu için artık macerada önemli bir mesafe kaydedilir. Ama henüz tam açıklanmayan olaylar da var. Bu arada hep olduğu gibi yazar keyifli diyalogları, kahramanların arkadşlıkları ile okura keyifli anlar yaşatmaya devam ediyor.Ayrıntılar: http://kitapokurum.blogspot.com/2018/...
It's when in books there's another character introduced and you can kinda guess this person is supposed to be the love interest of the protagonist but that character is A) annoying as hell and/or B) when it's the author telling us it's the love interest and but the story itself speaks differently.
I'm only starting with the fourth one now, so I don't know if she's really the love interest or not, but so far Ce'Nedra is already driving me up the wall.She's constantly annoying, condescending and looking down on Garion and no, I don't find it cute.
Re-reading the Belgariad that I read as a youth continues to be very enjoyable. This one (Book 3 in the series) continues to build upon the other two, but was a better narrative and is more enjoyable as the characters continue to develop.
Those of you that are familiar with the "Hero's Journey" will definitely recognize the plot of this series. However, it is wonderfully written. The characters are interesting and humorous. I have enjoyed each book so far, and I highly recommend it to my fellow Fantasy fans. They are relatively short books. So those of you that are intimidated my Big Fat Fantasy books won't be frightened by their length. Three down and two more to go!
The tour continues29 Jun 2012 This is the third book in the series and in this one Garion and his companions continue with their tour of the continent, visiting each of the kingdoms and learning about them and their god. In this book we are also introduced to the woman that will become Garion's lover: the imperial princess Ce'Nedra. It is interesting some of the comments that are made of this book because in a way it seems to be the book where things begin to come to a head, with Silk and his ne
Obviously everything comes out good at the end of the book, but in a way it is not the end by any means as there are two books to go.
Some have mentioned Eddings' ability to weave humour into his books, and I must admit that in a way humour is almost (though not quite) essential to a good book.
That said, there are many good books out there that do not use humour all that much and I guess that is because not everybody is a born comedian.
Spolier free review.Book 3 continues the story a young farm hand Garion, his Aunt Pol and a mysteries vagabond and storyteller Mister Wolf as they are mixed up in a great prophecy and the theft of the powerful Orb of Aldur that was created by a god but was stolen by another god to be used for his own corrupt will.
‘Magician’s Gambit’ does just that and takes the story into new territory by exploring religion, war and slavery.
Silk's wicked wit, Polgara's inexorable nature, Mandorallans towering nobility, Ce'Nedra's girlish machinisms etc all these characters mixed together make a good book with, lets face it a pretty standard fantasy plot, though a very well realized and executed one, a truely excellent one, well after the book is closed I know I will remember all these characters and they will stick with me, and they have, I first read this book 10 years ago!So at the midway point things are moving on to the conclusion of this series and I am thoroughly enjoying the journey.
This and my other reviews can be found at http://amethystbookwyrm.blogspot.co.uk/With the Orb now in Cthol Murgos, the group go to the Vale of Aldur so that Garion can learn more about sorcery from Belgarath and Pol and to talk to Aldur.
With the prophecies starting to come true will they be able to regain the Orb?Magician’s Gambit is the third book in the Belgariad series and I enjoyed it more than the last two books.
I liked Ce’Nedra more in this book, mostly because we got to see how she thinks.Magician’s Gambit is really good and I would recommend it to people who enjoy classic swords and sorcery fantasy books.
When I first started the series, I found myself wondering why I was reading it.
I think the books are a great length for fantasy as they aren't nearly as daunting in size as some *cough* The Eye of the World *cough* A Game of Thrones *cough* While those books and series are all wonderful, they're long and I know that's off-putting to a lot of people who want to read but don't really want to read long things (if that makes sense).
I definitely recommend reading this series, even if you think they've become cliched (psh).
