https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85935.Selections_from_the_Prison_Notebooks
this is a very pleasant book. it helps a lot if you read it while writing job applications. of course it also makes you want to go to prison but let's stop here.
I suppose that's what's so appealing about all the more liberatory, less orthodox, less deterministic Marxist thinkers.The cultural turn is wonderful, and his criticism of "common sense" is just as forceful today as it was then.
Hegemony, intersubjectivity, these are all fascinating topics, and it's easy to see how Gramsci's writing became the seedbed of cultural studies.I must say though, he's very fixed in his time period, especially when he talks about the shocking immorality of the rich.
We read Gramsci, and we see the birth of Western Marxism.
I decided to read this book in order to presenting a simple essay for "Critical Theory" subject at my university.
Gramsci was a Neo-Marxist, he writes all the essay when he was at prison.
Gramsci notable work was his theory about "Hegemony", but you will never found a chapter about hegemony itself.
Although in his writing Gramsci never ever mentioned "The Role of Media", many scholar (who I assume never read this book) often mentioned Gramsci's Hegemony was all about media.
To be able understand Gramsci's writing you should read the first chapter of this book, titled "Intellectual Organics".
Certainly his own experience as political activist and leader contributes.For a mass of people to be led to think coherently and in the same coherent fashion about the real present world, is a “philosophical” event far more important and “original” than the discovery by some philosophical “genius” of a truth which remains the property of small groups of intellectuals.Gramsci explores how a new conception takes hold of a social group, comparing a rational approach to an authoritative one, and instead making a more sociologically-based conclusion in the power of groups.
one of the key leftist texts. author develops a number of innovative ideas within the context of Marxism. hard to overstate the value.
He wrote extensively on the role of intellectuals, on education, history, politics, culture, the modern state and philosophy.
The Prison Notebooks was written between 1929 and 1935, when Gramsci was a prisoner of the Italian fascist state under Mussolini.
He developed the concept of 'hegemony', arguing that the ruling class sustained its control of society and the state through hegemonic domination of education, culture, sport, religion etc.
Working class revolution whould therefore only succeed if the struggle was broadened from that in trhe work place to a broad based struggle involving the contestation of control and space in education, culture, sport, the community etc.
The sense of achievement after finishing this is similar to that of finishing Capital...it is massive and, given its fractured nature, I'd say even more challenging. Gramsci is so often referenced, however, I took many of his ideas rather for granted. After reading him for myself, I'd say there is more of interest here, and more that I find problematic than I'd ever expected...and is definitely a book to think over and pick up again. Hegemony and common sense, political struggle, popular education (and not so popular education), it's all here...
قيام التنظيم الدولي الشيوعي للمجتمع بعد انتصار البروليتاريا في حرب المواقع وسيطرتها على الدولة.الثورة كنتيجة حتمية لفكر جرامشيكل هذه النقاط تتجه بالضرورة صوب فكرة واحدة: الثورة، بوصفها تلك الغاية أو الفكرة الشاملة التي يمكنها إرساء القيم الجديدة في المجتمع بعد هيمنة الطبقة العاملة على مؤسساته المدنية.
I was acquainted with certain Gramscian concepts through secondary sources, such as "cultural hegemony" and "organic intellectuals" and "passive revolution." But I did not know about his thorough critique of trends in Marxist thought, such as the vulgar interpretations of historical materialism and the crudely reductionist economic determinism proposed by Bukharin and many others since.
By stressing that only mankind itself can set into motion the laws of historical materialism, Gramsci brings back the importance of human agency and praxis into Marxist ideology.
Most of the final section "The Philosophy of Praxis" is devoted to this and it is my favorite section of the book.
Antonio Gramsci (1891-1937) adalah seorang intelektual berkebangsaan Italia yang dipenjarakan selama 10 tahun oleh rezim fasis Mussolini.
"Kita harus menghentikan otak ini untuk bekerja selama 20 tahun” demikian ujar jaksa pada saat pengadilan terhadapnya (Wikipedia).
Kolakowski menyebutnya sebagai teoritikus politik paling orisinil sesudah Lenin yang mencoba mengkritisi kelemahan-kelemahan Marxisme dan melakukan analisis terhadap penyebab kegagalan revolusi proletariat (Huda:2006).Gagasan sentral pemikiran Gramsci ialah konsep tentang Hegemoni.
Ia menuliskan pemikirannya dengan bertitik tolak pada kritiknya terhadap pandangan marxisme ortodoks, terutama kerangka teoritis Nikolai Bukharin dalam sebuah buku The Theory of Historical Materialisme.
Buku tersebut sesungguhnya bertujuan sebagai textbook yang berisi ajaran-ajaran Marxisme-Leninisme sebagai pandangan dunia proletariat.
Although not a Marxist, I found this to be a masterpiece. The work itself are notes collected from the authors time in prison under Mussolini. So many topics are covered outside of the economy and revolution. There are a variety of interesting theories and the author subjects even points of view close to him to criticism. He raises many issues and identifies various problems with strands of philosophy. There is some Marxist dogma and some of his views do suffer from a materialist rigidity but there is generally so much to recommend.
Italian marxist, predecessor to cultural studies. An invaluable conceptualization of hegemony. One of my favorite quotes of all time - we have to create an inventory of all the traces historical processes have left upon us in order to begin critical elaboration to understand ourselves and the world
انطونيو غرامشي ، وأخيرا .الشيوعيون والسجن ، قصص لا تنتهي . " أمي العزيزة لا تقلقي بشاني ولا تفكري اني بصحة سيئة .....يصلني من الطعام وجبتين اقرأ ست جرائد في اليوم وثمان كتب أسبوعيا ، اضافة الى المجلات المصورة والأدبية "رسائل غرامشي لوالدته - ١٩٢٨ الجزء الاول .
Reading this today for my orals exam. Not understanding it at all and don't have the energy to try harder. I think I'm just going to hope that no one asks me questions about this one...
The Italian fascist regime wanted to shut down Gramsci's brain when they imprisoned him. They failed.
These took me a long time to read and were labor intensive to read but were well worth the effort. They are very smart texts with very important ideas such as his view that revolution failed because it did not include the exploited classes. Gramsci deals with people's drive for power and imposing various paradigms on society and the impact of these attempts,etc. Definitely an interesting, worthwhile read.
»Gramsci ist der wichtigste Linke Intellektuelle, den man nicht kennt. Von den Faschisten in Italien eingekerkert und viel zu früh verstorben ist sein Einfluss auf linkes und sozialistisches Denken ist heute leider begrenzt, seine Gedanken und Einsichten bleiben aber im höchsten Maße relevant. Wer jenseits kommunistischer Parolen und sozialdemokratischer Mitte nach Inspirationen für progressives politisches Handeln sucht, sollte sich mit Gramsci vertraut machen.«– Peter Dörrie (PD-Autor)
-this was my second read on part of it, first read on more than half though-i thought that the preface by the editors was really interesting and helpful-favorite part this time around was the section on conjunctural analysis as a method, except he doesn't call it that.
I mean, it's Gramsci. Which means there's a lot of stuff that feels dated and it's a slog to get through but at the end you feel smarter and better prepared for struggle. Do wonder why we don't have a more updated Selections, but...
A very important read, but for a "selections" volume this edition still features a lot of material that could only be considered extraneous.
One of the most revolutionary things I read in undergrad.
ليست رسائل أدبية، هي رسائل سجبن" سياسي" يؤمن بشدّة بما سجن لأجله ،يحنّ لأهله وتفاصيلهم الدقيقة فحسب.
As the vanguard of the proletariat a Party should be the most progressive part of that class but it shouldn't be working from above the rest of the class, it should be working within it to pull it in the right direction and that is how the new, revolutionary, cultural hegemony should be formed.
As revolution progresses society will gradually shift to the left meaning the cultural hegemony will also, cultural memes will tend to support the revolution more and more as progress is made.
Of particular interest in Gramsci’s notes are his conception of the party as an assemblage of organic intellectuals of the proletariat; the necessity of military organization (as opposed to relying on pure spontaneity ) conceptualized with politics in command; the winning of hegemony by the proletariat against bourgeoisie domination not only capture of state but also in the realm of ideology and civil society; and in this context the need for building a national-popular bloc (which all find echoes in the strategy and tactics of the Chinese Revolution under Mao Zedong).
But anyways, my 3 star choice here is just because I don't really think this particular volume does a good job of presenting and/or explaining Gramsci's thought.
So in the end, what I got from this volume was more a set of biographies of various people and parties in Italy since 1850 instead of an exegesis of Gramsci's thought.
Maybe in the end the best thing for me would just be a book _about_ Gramsci's thought rather than a presentation of primary sources...
This was written from the Regina Coeli prison in Rome 1926, where Gramsci and sent by Mussolini's fascist intellectual purge.
Prison illuminated Gramsci's analysis of the intellectuals' role in the state and revolution, the rationale of materialsim, and most importantly how the predictions of collapse made by Classical Marxism had not come to pass.His contribution can be boiled down to the term "cultural/ideological hegemony".
This means that capitalism has successfully controlled the range of acceptable discourse.This can be in the form of actual censorship of social pressure that causes self-censorship.While often cited as the budding of a branch of Marxism, Gramsci's most definitive work actually evolved political thought to a different species.
I have to admit I feel a bit opssessed with Gramsci since i started reading this book, he died in fascists prison as he was sentenced for 20 years in an attempt to stop his brain from functioning where he ends up writing this profound work ..Gramsci is one of the most authentic marxists and he was one of the few theorists who practised politics thus his theories are more and more practical and still relevant ...his analysis of social hegemony where one class is dominant over all others is an attempt to explain failure of revolution or lack thereof ..
his idea of passive revolution, his concept of civil society and its relation with state and class power which bases its power on negotiating consent and his concept of common sense makes him one of the most interesting marxist theorists .
"لم أرى أشخاصاً أكثر استحضاراً لمواقف الطفولة والذكريات البعيدة أكثر من هؤلاء الذين كتبوا داخل المعت
Od prve strani bereš, kako se mu duh lomi in kako misli, da bo preživel in premagal samega sebe in druge, vendar ni.
Mogoče bi isto storil, kot je on, vendar težko verjamem, da bi zavrgel vse zaradi utopije.
Saj drugega niti ne morem reči, ker so se vsi sistemi s časom izpridili.
Je pa ostala intelektualna zapuščina, ki je tudi brez vrednosti, vendar za kakšno ceno!
Prebral in prelistal sem knjigo, ki me je razžalostila, saj da so sistemi pripravljeni ubiti misel v človeku, kaže na to, da je knjiga in misel le največje orožje in najmanj nadzorovano orožje, katerega se vsi sistemi bojijo.
The influencing writings I have read except Dr B R Ambedkar's literature.
