https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1682216.The_Nature_Of_The_Physical_World
Remarkable insight into Einstein's General Theory of Relativity. The writing is clear and forceful. The ending superb!
Any sentence that begins: 'But no one can deny that...' is likely to compel from me a passionate contrarian denial, and that is what happened about four chapters from the end of this book.The copy I read was on a shelf in the Physics tearoom, and belonged to Don Walker's Honours Supervisor:[1]: "The law that entropy always increases - the second law of thermodynamics - holds, I think, the supreme position among the laws of Nature.
But if your theory is found to be against the second law of thermodynamics I can give you no hope; there is nothing for it but to collapse in deepest humiliation." ; "We often think that when we have completed our study of one we know all about two, because 'two' is 'one and one'.
I thoroughly enjoyed this series of lectures delivered in 1927 by Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington.
These lectures give the layperson an insight into the theories of Relativity and Quantum in an engaging style and school the layperson to avoid identifying the real with the concrete and mixing incongruous conceptions of the world of consciousness with purely symbolic world of physics, and yet not “to pluck our eyes because things persist in deluding us instead of giving us the plain truth”.
However, the book was written post 1927, so many of the most important concepts had been introduced.He focuses too heavily on the distinction between real and percieved for my liking, mainly because I do not take issue with the seeming inconsistency between the way that scientists break the world down into "meter readings" and symbols, whereas these are clearly not the things we percieve.And interesting insight into basic philosophical science at the time, especially considering it is the lecture notes for a Cambridge undergraduate course!
دسم ، من نوع الكتب الذى يجبرك على القراءة بتأنى و سيتركك مع نظرة مختلفة لطبيعة العالم أو ما نسميه الواقع ما أساء للكتاب بحق هى مجموعة المقالات فى آخره
