https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/465697.The_Balkan_Trilogy
He was employed by the British Council as a lecturer.In 1939 the heroine of this trilogy, Harriet, slim and dark, newly married to Guy Pringle (big and tall), after having met him three weeks previously, boards the Orient Express with her new husband.
Get out!” Once again Guy shows great concern for everyone else, but Harriet continues to feel very isolated.
Harriet who in Bucharest absolutely loathed Yaki (who had lived with them for several months) now learns to accept him.
However, before long the situation once again deteriorates and Harriet, Guy and their English compatriots have to find a way out of Greece to safety.
From ‘poor old Yaki’ who yearns constantly for a life now gone, to Guy’s boss, Professor Inchcape, to Guy’s colleague Clarence Lawson, whose company Harriet accepts when her own husband is too busy, to the scheming Sophie, who attempted to marry Guy for a British passport, to the journalists who cluster round the bars and cafes listening to rumours.
Harriet begins to long for safety, but Guy refuses to accept that he will have to leave and, to Harriet’s exasperation, throws himself wholeheartedly into organising the summer school at the University.Many of the characters in the first book also appear here.
The first two volumes of the trilogy saw Guy and Harriet Pringle in Bucharest – newly married and coping in a Europe newly at war.
You laugh, but it could happen.As the garage door opened, however, through the pouring rain, I could see that the yard waste bin had already been emptied by the local government sub-contracted service.So I placed Olivia Manning on the trunk of my car and ushered the bin back to its accustomed spot.
Because in the two minutes it took me to retrieve the garbage can, 40-thousand headmen played segue through my brain, and I did not think again of 'Fortunes of War' for the 25 minutes it took to get to the car dealership.Which is when I looked on the passenger seat and saw no book.Did I mention that it was pouring?
Addictive, compulsively readable, often savagely funny, Olivia Manning’s trilogy turns Rumania and Greece and the advent of World War Two into a stage for a vast array of characters from displaced European royalty, to members of the British ex-pat community, to Rumanian antifascists.
They have been married barely a week and have known each other for hardly more than a fortnight; this wartime marriage of strangers is the central mystery of the novels: “She could only wonder at the complexity of the apparently simple creature she had married.” Guy, a leftist, is interested in ideas, intensely sociable, generous to a fault; he collects new people with an avid yet somehow impersonal hunger.
Manning's Balkan Trilogy is a very interesting look at a side of World War Two that I don't often encounter, that fought in eastern Europe.
It mirrors some of her life experiences and is followed by The Levant Trilogy which I definitely plan to read also.As the story begins, Guy and Harriet Pringle are arriving in Romania after a sudden romance and marriage during his leave in England.
Throughout this the reader also is witness to multiple interpersonal vignettes: the Pringle's marriage, the members of the British Consul, Yakimov ("poor Yaki"), the students and other teachers.
Manning writes in the 1960s, and we know what becomes of the gypsies selling flowers and Bucharest's many Jews, both rich and poor, even if Guy and Harriet don't (though anti-Jewish persecutions are very much a part of these books).
We know too that this moment is maybe the last moment in time when merely to be British is to have a certain ascendancy almost anywhere in the world (no matter how poor or shambolic you may be).So this is the rich setting into which the jewel of Manning's epic story of marriage, class, war, masculinity, manners (so many things!) is placed.
Often times, between two lines of dialogue, you discover who an unimportant character is with the same depth you would an important one, and she seems to do this just to add colour to the story.
Not only does the entire book creak under the weight of pages upon pages of dialogue, but she manages to make it sound like prose.
The entire reading experience is very pleasant, but these two things – character building and dialogue – deserve to be mentioned on their own.
Manning managed to teach me a lesson about my own city – and that I am ever grateful for.
Their relationship is tried time and again by the rumors that surround their marriage as well as Harriet's friendships with other men (and Guy's friendships with other women).I thought at first that Manning's realistic characters was what made the story so darn addictive, but then realized that they would have to be as detailed as the environment in which they lived.
Guy's need for work and projects keep his mind occupied and is, most likely, a way for him to remain emotionally detached from his wife.The second narrative The Levant Trilogy apparently details their life as the war forces them to move on to Egypt.
“Better a ship at sea, or an Irish wife, than a house in Macedonia.” Semi-sprawling novelized memoir of Brits circulating through the occupations and evacuations of the world war in Rumania and Greece. Author Manning deftly takes the reader along for an unpredictable and dangerous ride through the distant outposts of the Balkans, as Europe swarms with turmoil. Atmosphere and character are well crafted here, with portraits of people that could only exist in that time and place. Manning has a wri
Semi-sprawling novelized memoir of Brits circulating through the occupations and evacuations of the world war in Rumania and Greece.
Author Manning deftly takes the reader along for an unpredictable and dangerous ride through the distant outposts of the Balkans, as Europe swarms with turmoil.
Atmosphere and character are well crafted here, with portraits of people that could only exist in that time and place.
Part of the charm of the story is that the reader is left to contemplate whether the war makes the man, or vice versa ..
Spies were shot.
Olivia Manning opens up a world that is completely outside my experience - the settings are Rumania and Greece during World War II - and yet is excruciatingly (in the cringe-worthy sense) familiar because many of its characters are British ex-pat, post-colonial slackers and pretenders of the worst sort.
Guy and Harriet Pringle meet and marry in the space of Guy's summer break from his work teaching English - as an employee of a British Council-type organization - in Rumania.
In all, a fascinating account of civilian life in middle-Europe on the brink of war, informed by the author's own experiences as the wife of a British Council employee in Bucharest during the war.
"Full of Sound and Fury Signifying Nothing"What I took away from this 1000 page book is:"The Germans are coming!
The Germans are coming!""We can't leave because we are such good people and can't leave the little Jew boy behind, even though he's ungrateful and super rich, like all Jews""The Germans are coming!
The Germans are coming!""We can't leave the Russian/Irish prince behind, from the goodness of our hearts, even though he betrayed us to the Gestapo.""The Germans are coming!
The Germans are coming!""I can't leave the cat behind, even though she's not mine and I have no idea where she is""The Germans are coming!
"Marry in haste, repent at leisure." I forget the origin of that quote, (was it Shakespeare?), but it's an apt description of the three books that make up "The Balkan Trilogy".
I reviewed the first 2 books separately when I read them, so this is more of an overview of the three parts."Friends and Allies" finds Guy and Harriet in Athens, where they fled after the fall of Rumania into Nazi hands.
Now I really want to read "The Levant Trilogy" by the same author, which finds Guy and Harriet in Cairo after escaping from Greece.
Manning has really captured what it's like, I think, to be human - with love and fear and hope, each doing their best to be whatever it is that any of us need to be, and never quite sure what that is.
Now for the third time, I'm struck, once again, by Manning's great skill to capture sight and sound and smell - the pathos of the poor, the arrogance of the rich and the powerful ...
Would I recommend?What does it sound like?Of course ...
some quotes:about Guy:"She was annoyed at the same time, seeing his willingness to have Sasha here as a symptom of spiritual flight--the flight from the undramatic responsibility of to one person which marriage was.""And yet, watching him as he sat there, unsuspecting of criticism or boredom, an open-handed man of infinite good nature, her heart was touched.
To have one thing permanent in life as they knew it was as much as they could expect."falling in love: "their sense of likeness astonished them.
Although she could not pin down any overt point of resemblance, Harriet at times imagined he was the person most like her in the world, her mirror image."
Somewhere near Venice, Guy began talking wit a heavy, elderly man, a refugee from Germany on this way to Trieste.
recited quickly: "The military, mad with grief and indignation at the murder of a beloved Prime Minister, seized the young men and, unknown to the civil authorities, shot them out of hand."page 185:"Although Rumania is a maize-eating country, it grows only half as much maize as Hungary.
I'll not abdicate."page 454:"Hitler cares nothing for Balkans politics.
As it is, the country has fallen to pieces, the Iron Guard is in power ad the Germans have been invited to walk in at their convenience.
Parfait livre de longue haleine pour un voyage rempli de trajets en autobus, de cafés de fin d'après-midi & de bières de début de soirée. J'essaierai d'en parler un peu plus quand je serai de retour à Montréal.  Deux-trois semaines plus tard : Ce livre m'a littéralement pété entre les mains en cours de lecture : après deux cents pages, la vieille reliure a abdiqué & les feuilles se sont mises à tomber, le plus souvent en petits paquets compacts, encore enduits de colle sèche. Je me suis
Si on reste dans une vision du monde résolument british (& donc un peu lacunaire, pour dire ça comme ça), Manning n'en réussit pas moins à tisser une espèce de téléroman en trois tomes autour de l'avancée inquiétante de la guerre, de la vie étroite qui est celle de la communauté d'expatriés à Bucarest, & des soubresauts qui traversent le mariage des Pringle.
C'est tellement intéressant & prenant & fascinant de se faire balloter entre la grande Histoire & les plus petites qu'on en oublie presque de rappeler à Manning que les sujets non-britanniques sont eux aussi dignes de récits complexes & nuancés.En bref : malgré les bémols, une belle grosse brique satisfaisante, à lire avec beaucoup de temps devant soi.
I heard so much about this book, i couldn't wait to read it.
I got the Kindle trilogy and started.
The only thing that kept me going was the fact this is the first book I have ever read that was set in Romania, and which even weaved a few of my parents' language which i speak (badly) into the story.
So, there was a very personal angle - as the events take place in Bucharest, and at eve and then in - the Second World War, a time when my parents were there.However, I just couldn't really connect with the characters, I found the writing tedious, and was bored.
Finally, 60% into the trilogy (somewhere in the 2nd book) I gave up.
Oh Harriet.Just have the affair already.Leave your husband.Forget about the damn cat.And spare me from all these unpleasant characters.
Why am I giving only 3 stars to a book I enjoyed so much?
By then, Guy had his own presence on occasion and Harriet spent more time questioning her relationship with him, although not reaching the same conclusion most women with any self respect would probably have reached!The main reason I enjoyed this book so much is the history.
Many characters behave with utter selfishness, never giving a thought for the consequence of their actions on the lives of others.
I was stumped completely by the Greek phrases as they're written phonetically and I couldn't find a way to translate them at all.
Harriet's husband Guy has not won me over, and it's hard to take his politics seriously, but I suppose he represents a "type."I found the reactions of the characters, especially Harriet, to the Fascist treatment of oppressed groups (Jews, Romanian peasants, gypsies, etc.) flat or cursory, and not much deeper when played out in the lives of specific individuals.
I would have expected the author to use the experiences of specific people to draw out more of an emotional connection from the characters, but that only happens occasionally, and when it does it is short-lived.In any case, I'm looking forward to the next trilogy, which is set in the Levant.Another good recommendation from Amy.
I put this book on my 'abandoned' shelf a year ago with the comment that I didn't have the patience.. but THIS year I am sitting in Venice with lovely time to just get lost in books and had time to thoroughly appreciate the characters and time and the 'drama' of the small British ex-pat group who populate this novel.Add to this my favorite aspect of a very good read - wonderful narrative of place and mood - and I was wrapped up in this for many days of good reads.HIGHLY recommended!! to all my friends!
Olivia Manning can really write...her characters are so realistic that I found them extremely easy to dislike. I gather that she lived through the period in which this book is set, and I was fascinated by the detail, which kept me reading, about war torn Europe. But oh what a wet lettuce of a central figure is Guy Pringle...ugh ugh ugh. Many of the characters were beautifully drawn but profoundly irritating and tedious. Perhaps rather too lifelike.
Very interesting trilogy. I wouldn't be surprised if it is banned in Romania, given the pretty much uniformly hostile treatment of Romanians in the story! Nevertheless, interesting storylines that push the novels forward, first-rate painterly writing, and writing that conveys a tremendous sense of what must have been the atmosphere of that time and those places. Bravo, Olivia Manning!
I simply loved this book. A whole range of characters. Feelings and emotions without relying on silly humour. I wasn't alive, but I'm sure it captured the times. A must read. I look forward to The Levant Trilogy now.
This is written much more like a memoir than novels. They are rich in detail of local color but thin on plot. It has good description of the Balkans in about 1940.
It was nearly 1,000 pages, a length I'm not opposed to reading, but usually reserved for books I'm deeply committed to, a Tolstoy or James Joyce.
By the end, I realized I had thoroughly enjoyed it.The three novels concern a newly-married expatriate couple, Guy and Harriet Pringle, living in Bucharest, Romania, where Guy is a lecturer/teacher.
Their circle of friends inhabit much of the novel: their comings and goings, gossip, acts of deceit and benevolence.
The characters are engrossing enough that you don't mind following them over the the course of three novels (and another trilogy - The Levant Trilogy - which I will read at some point).
Inainte de a citi cartea, am vazut serialul BBC. Am vrut sa citesc si cartea, dar din pacate, in multe pagini am regasit o intelegere superficiala a locurilor si oamenilor. Harriet are aroganta unei tinere ce se considera "civilizata" in opozitie cu barbarii din Bucuresti iar provestea este relatata permanent prin lentila frustrarii si geloziei. M-am asteptat sa gasesc in carte o imagine obiectiva a unei perioade extrem de agitate, insa am fost extrem de dezamagita.
It really was amazing. I knew nothing of Romania/Greece in WWII. Looking forward to reading the Levant Trilogy next.
This trilogy of novels transported me to a world that became a real part of my life. The characters were charming, obnoxious, and everything in between. It seems odd to say I couldn't put it down, because obviously I had to put down this 900+ page book at times, but it did not leave my mind. I have immediately moved on to the next installments of the Pringle couple, the levant trilogy. With the wars in the world today and the many refugees, this book is very relevant. I enjoyed it thoroughly. Manning was a wonderful writer
Magnificent
