https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50976.The_Roots_of_Heaven
هدف او حمایت از فیلها ست، و دست به قیام میزند، و به یک یاغی مشهور در جهان، بدل میشود.
اما مورل میگوید: «برای من تنها نجات فیلها مطرح است».
در این میان، افرادی به او میپیوندند، انسانهای بی کس و تنها، تبهکاران فراری، طرفداران طبیعت، آنارشیستها ........؛ هر کس با ایده ی ویژه خود، به دور او گرد میایند، و خوانشگر از طریق همین جمع، با جبهه گیریهای مختلف اروپاییان، مسلمانان، و اعراب و .....
3.5*O percurso de um homem que fez da defesa dos elefantes a sua cruzada, um homem com carisma suficiente para mobilizar gente à sua volta e criar um movimento que provocou uma onda de agitação, varreu continentes e granjeou simpatia e admiração pela sua obstinação.
Às tantas comecei a desconfiar que foi propositado; que o autor assim quis para vincar a convicção das ideias dos vários grupos; na verdade, do princípio ao fim, todos – quer fossem pelos elefantes, pelo colonialismo ou pela independência - se mantiveram fiéis às suas ideologias.Gostei, mas deixou um sabor amargo...
And after I was done reading, I still did not know what is elephant meat called, like pork is to pig.Morel.
When we save creatures like elephants from extinction do we save ourselves too?
That people from the Western countries protest their wholesale killings and the sale of ivory only because they already enjoy the comforts of highly-developed societies and would want to keep Africa and its elephants only as some kind of a zoo.Are you a "nature lover"?
Do you read novels like All Creatures Great and Small?
★★ Solitudine  Pubblicato nel 1956 “Le radici del cielo” ha l’ammirevole pregio di rappresentare lo spirito di delusione nei confronti dell’Umanità che caratterizza il secondo dopoguerra. Tra i due grandi schieramenti ideologici che manovrano la politica e l’economia si pongono riflessioni che prendono le distanze da ogni ragion di stato.L’Occidente vacilla sotto il peso di tutto questo e non a caso questa storia si svolge in Africa dove illudendosi di ripartire da zero, in realtà, si ricalcano
Gli elefanti così tanto difesi da Morel sono in realtà strumenti per cogliere le differenti interpretazioni esistenziali: gli avidi e materialisti non vedono altro che il guadagno; i poeti e gli artisti ne fanno esempio della perfetta estetica del Creato ed infine gli ecologisti che pensano alla salvaguardia del pianeta.Così anche Morel è passivo delle diverse interpretazioni a seconda di come si voglia vedere le cose: chi lo ammira ne riconosce il coraggio di fare ciò che gli altri osano solo pensare; i nemici gli attribuiscono un valore intenzionalmente politico, per cui Morel diventa il giustiziere anarchico e, in quanto tale, da abbattere senza rimorsi.Il colonialismo sale sul banco degli imputati.

A need for protection and company, from which obstinate people like Morel try to escape by mean of petition, fight committees, by trying to take the protection of the species in their own hands." "our needs for justice, for freedom and dignity are roots of heaven that are deeply embedded in our hearts, but of heaven itself, men know nothing but the gripping roots." "when you live too long you end up knowing nobody" and "where there are elephants, there I go free" The book references that a nation must give up something of its nature for its freedom; for America it was the bison, for Russia-the wolves and for Africa, the elephant.
محشر!فستیوالی که همهی درونمایهها و فهرمانهای رومن گاری - از لنی گاری کوپر گرفته تا رزا در زندگی پیش رو و پارتیزانهای Nothing important ever dies - در آن حاضرند و خوش میدرخشند.مدتها بود زمان به این بلندی نخوانده بودم و داستان آنفدر کشش داشت که ترجمهی افتضاح عدنانی را تا آخر تحمل کنم.وافعا ترحمه ضعیفی است که در کنار غلطهای بیشمار نگارشی باور این را که کتاب را نشر ثالث چاپ کرده مشکل میکند!
محشر!فستیوالی که همه‌ی درون‌مایه‌ها و فهرمان‌های رومن گاری - از لنی گاری کوپر گرفته تا رزا در زندگی پیش رو و پارتیزان‌های Nothing important ever dies - در آن حاضرند و خوش می‌درخشند.مدت‌ها بود زمان به این بلندی نخوانده بودم و داستان آن‌فدر کشش داشت که ترجمه‌ی افتضاح عدنانی را تا آخر تحمل کنم.وافعا ترحمه ضعیفی است که در کنار غلط‌های بی‌شمار نگارشی باور این را که کتاب را نشر ثالث چاپ کرده مشکل می‌کند!
I don't read books again, because there are just too many books I want to read and so little reading time that remains. This book, if I were to read a book again, it would be this book.
Sulle tematiche affrontate in questo romanzo hanno già parlato altri molto diffusamente e non mi sento di aggiungere nulla di utile.
A me è piaciuto, mi piace di solito Romain Gary e qui ho scoperto un altro dei numerosi registri che questo scrittore era in grado di utilizzare.
Perché solo 3 stelle quindi?
Certo credo di aver ben compreso i concetti che Gary voleva affrontare, non mi rimane alcun dubbio del tipo "chissà cosa voleva dire con questa frase" perché tutto è stato ampiamente sviscerato e affrontato sotto tutte le sue sfaccettature.
Quindi per qualche anno non venitemi più a parlare di elefanti.
Um grande livro, é de ler e pedir mais.

Mais on voit déjà apparaître son cynisme, ses analyses fines de personnes, ses réflexions sur le sens de la vie, tous ces aspects que j’adore d’autant plus dans ses romans suivants, en particulier dans les mangeurs d’étoiles, La danse de Gengis Kohn ou encore Clair de Femme.Morel est un ancien prisonnier français interné dans un camps de concentration, qui y a survécu en rêvant à la liberté des éléphants.
فیل ها بهانه اند، انسانیت در خطر است.«روزی خواهد رسید که مردم در بازار به دنبال قرص، شربت و آمپول انسانیت می گردند.»نقل از کتاب.رمان حواشی و پرداخت هایی مشابه رمان دیگر همین نویسنده به نام "تولیپ" دارد. همان پامبرگونگی شصخیت اصلی و دغدغه های مرتبط با آینده ی انسانیت و رفتارهای آدمیان.خواندنش طولانی و وقت گیر اما تلنگرهایش سهمگین است!
Preso nota di diversi titoli, mi è capitato questo suo romanzo sugli elefanti, e non solo.
In quello che fu considerato il primo romanzo ecologista anni '50, ho trovato di più che la difesa della natura.
Il messaggio che soggiace in tutta la vicenda a me sembra la difesa della nostra umanità più profonda, in un tempo già reduce dalle barbarie e le persecuzioni naziste e sotto la minaccia atomica.Sensibilità che appare sopratutto nei tantissimi personaggi.
Tutto ciò mi è molto piaciuto, e vi ho ritrovato ciò che di Gary mi aveva colpito.Mi ha meno convinto lo sviluppo della trama.
Yarısına kadar geldim kitabın ama çok ara verdiğimden ve hikayenin içine bir türlü giremediğimden bıraktım. Sonra tekrar okuyacağım.
داستان کتاب درباره عشق عجیب و غریب یک مرد فرانسوی به فیلهای آفریقاست.
(برای خلاصه ش همین رو فقط می تونم بگم.)من از رومن گاری کتابهای زیادی خونده بودم (لیدی ال، زندگی در پیش رو، خداحافظ گری کوپر، سگ سفید و چند داستان کوتاه) توانایی بسیار زیاد رومن گاری توی نوشتن در ژانرهای مختلف و فضاهای متفاوت باعث شده بود که فکر کنم هرچی از ایشون بخونم حتماً زیبا و لذت بخشه، اما حقیقت اینه که اگر اول این کتابشون رو خونده بودم هرگز سراغ کتاب دیگه ای ازش نمی رفتم.
ترجمه ی کتاب خیلی خیلی بد، و نگارشش واقعا ضعیف بود.
Just finished what is my first reading of Romain Gary and ... wow !!! He captured me in only two pages and kept me until the very last word. A travel across space and time to The French colonies in Africa in the 50’s. A complex novel full of humanism, a front runner writing on ecology and African emancipation, a confluence of charismatic characters. If Ernest Hemingway and Robert Capa mean something to you, no only their respective works of art, but their lifes in their very fanciful aspect, then this novel is for you ! Enjoy.
This book is excellent--intense, strong, upsetting, infuriating, and frustrating.First published in 1956, it looks at colonialism, nationalism, and traditional lifestyles in the context of French Equatorial Africa.
(All hunting--traditional, for ivory, and big game for sport.) Waitari, a French-educated Oulé and nationalist, joins his cause to reach his own ends.
England has already left Sudan, so the eastern frontier is open an undefended, with arms and nationalists going back and forth.
The cast of characters here is long--French, Oulé, Arab, American, German, Sudanese, and more.
Not an easy read, and not necessarily enjoyable.
But a very very good read.
I loved this elegant exploration of the clash of cultures, the nuances of human interests and the depiction of post World War II Equatorial Africa. Morel is obsessed with the protection of elephants from the cruelty of traditional village hunters and the big game hunters from the West who kill for sport. His motivation is attributed to various things according to the viewpoint of those assessing him. Gary shows an acute understanding of human motivation as he depicts how various characters aspire to something beyond themselves or just try to survive he best way they can.
Instead, it's a story that just lives in a world recently gone crazy.
It's written by someone who clearly thinks it's possible, maybe plausible, that humanity isn't going to survive the next 20 years.All that leads to an attempt to save the elephants in Chad, and the discussion of environmentalism (and environmental radicalism, and environmental terrorism) is fascinating.
It matters that this is about elephants, and the novel gets into the hairier discussions of privilege and racism inherent in a white guy coming in to "save" Africa.
دسترسی به متن انگلیسی ندارم و فرانسه هم بلد نیستم، ولی فارسی کتاب واقعا بده. نثرش پر از دست اندازه و توی همین سی صفحه ای که خوندم، حداقل دو تا جمله طولانی بود که فعلش گم شده بود. ناشر محترم هم که طبق معمول زحمت ویراستاری رو به خودش نداده بود.
...یک زن تنها زمانی که مردی را دوست دارد قوی و بی تفاوت نسبت به همه چیز و مصرانه کاری را انجام می دهد
Fort, superbe et profond.
“Le radici del cielo”, Romain Gary.«...come possiamo parlare di progresso quando continuiamo a distruggere intorno a noi le più belle e più nobili manifestazioni della vita?
Parla delle nostre ipocrisie, delle storture del progresso.C’è un’epicità sorniona ne “Le radici del cielo” che deriva, credo, direttamente dall’Africa subsahariana che fa da sfondo e pretesto al libro.
The image of elephants as symbols of freedom---they roam the wide open spaces---is done to death.
(At least almost my death !) The story, such as it is, concerns a former French prisoner of a German WW II concentration camp who dreamt there of the free elephants that he imagined roam Africa and headed for Chad as soon as he got out.
The German prostitute helps bring more arms for the anti-hunting crusader who always believes that the world would support him if only they knew.

J’ai mis du temps avant de vraiment rentrer dans ce livre, mais une fois que je m’y suis vraiment plongée, je ne pouvais plus le lâcher.Gary a clairement tiré de ses expériences en AEF pendant la guerre des descriptions magnifiques des paysages. Les personnages sont tous intéressants, et les traits d’humour de Gary qui apparaissent toutes les quelques pages sont un régal. La métaphore des éléphants comme reflet de la condition humaine est bien trouvée, et les diverses tentatives de récupération du mouvement de Morel sont un bon résumé de la basse nature humaine.Un livre que je pense relire.
Romain Gary parvient à mettre des mots sur la dignité humaine, grâce à ce personnage, élevé au rang de mythe dans sa propre histoire, et pourtant rien qu’un homme.Morel, cet homme qu'"on" essaye tour à tour de faire passer pour un terroriste et un misanthrope, parvient à conserver sa foi en l'homme et est rejoint par des personnages plus truculents les uns que les autres.
Ses portraits de Gary ne tombent jamais dans la facilité et semblent révéler ce que tout le monde porte en lui-même : le vécu de la condition humaine.
I can't believe it took me seven days to read this novel, when I had expected to do it in three at most.
I have decided that generally the mid-twentieth century French authors wrote some great novels but obstinately refuse to take it easy on their readers.
Like French food, you don't just chomp and swallow your way through it in a rush but must chew 30 times, pause, lift your eyes to heaven, and savor.
I would hate to read this book in a literature class or book club and have to hear other people analyze it then spit it out.
This is such a good book with very interesting characters and background stories. If a little heavy handed on the freedom theme. It took me so long to read it because it was terribly bound, the covers cracked off in pieces and I was afraid to break the spine in case the whole book fell apart - a lame reason to take so long, but it was hard to even open this book enough to read it!
