https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5152478-wintergirls
For me this one is a don't bother to read it.NOTE: For anyone who wants to rip into me and tell me that I don't know anything about eating disorders.
So I'd appreciate it, if that's your only intent, if you didn't leave a comment telling me what a bad person I am for not liking a fictional story.
A careful reading of the review would make it clear that I did not care for the way the author chose to portray this character, not that I was putting her down for having an eating disorder.
I was lucky enough to get an early copy of this book, as Laurie and I share a publisher. It is so, so good. The voice is unique, the style like a puzzle and a poem, all at once. Highly recommended. I think it will be HUGE with teenage girls.
You see the story unfold, and you know that the author is trying to show the horrors of eating disorders, but the book never feels preachy.
A complaint that I have seen about this book is the fact that the author never really explains what has caused Lia to be the way that she is.
As you know from my Shatter Me review these kinds of things can really annoy me if they are overused, but I think in this story they were okay used in moderation and never really made me lose focus on the plot.For a story about such a depressing subject the book didn't make me feel very depressed.
I'm extremely impressed with the way the author was able to capture all of Lia's experiences with the perfect words, words that fit together so flawlessly it's impossible for them to be described any other way.The portrayal of eating disorders in this book is also PHENOMENAL.
I'm truly amazed this isn't an own voices novel with how accurately the author was able to capture the experience of suffering from such a life-altering disorder.
I'm also so thankful this book showed the truly horrifying reality of eating disorders; This is a fatal illness.
Lia fights a war every day.
A war with food.
When she looks in the mirror she sees the pockets of fat hanging on her body.
She picks the bruised apples at lunch so she has an excuse to cut some of it off, she sews quarters in the lining of her robe to add weight when she has to stand on the scale in front of her stepmother, and she cuts herself – just little cuts in order to let the pain leak out of her body.When Lia learns that Cassie, her best friend, has been found dead in a motel room, maintaining any healthy habit is extremely difficult.
I initially found this book to be absolutely repulsive - the narrative was suffused with this sense that something was hideously wrong, and the devices that Anderson was using to describe narrator Lia's reality hinted at a disturbing mania.
As it turns out, this is exactly right - Lia's sense of self was damaged even before her former best friend Cassie died alone and in pain.
The loudest and most horrific is, of course, Cassie reminding her that they have a pact and that she is waiting for Lia between the veil of this world and the next.Anderson does an incredible job of portraying mental illness and eating disorders, opening a door for readers into the inner hell of sufferers.
Laurie Halse Anderson sinks her teeth into writes about eating disorders in this one. She distracts from the too-familiar story and flat characters uses lots of "clever" formatting, including numbers/tiny text/three guessesThis could have been a good book if Anderson had spent less time being "clever" and more time creating solid characters that would have strengthened a story that's been told plenty of times before.
it's not bad, i just already have a favorite teen-problem-novel about anorexia, one that doesn't have the voice of this narrator, who was so immersed in her dreamworld, she frequently spoke in this forced-poetic voice that i found distracting: "used to be that my whole body was my canvas - hot cuts lick my ribs, ladder rungs climbing my arms, thick milkweed stalks shooting up my thighs.
i lack the amount of self-control it takes to not eat the entire pint of ice cream.
so i liked the layering of two different enmeshed problems - i appreciated its ambition, but ultimately i prefer my old tried and true book from my junior high "be aware fair".
I ship this book. Ship! Ship!! Ship!!!WAIT.I MEAN... CAN YOU SHIP BOOKS?Before I go further, before I'm made out to be insensitive, these are things you need to know.1. YOU MIGHT NOT GET IT BUT2. WHAT'S MORE I'M MOSTLY LIKE 3. TO THOSE WHO STICK AROUND LOOKING TO FIX MY PROBLEM - YOU NEVER LEARNNow that that's out of the way... STORY LINE   "Dead girl walking”, the boys say in the halls.“Tell us your secret”, the girls whisper, one toilet to another.I am that girl.I am the space between my thig
We don't quit because we do want to get it.About 50 pages later, I can't help it, I get so frustrated with Lia and I just have to say itAND THEN I ASK I'm almost ready to give up when it happens, almost 200 pages into the book, I believe.
That's just it, Lia made me believe in her story.
There are only small steps upward; an easier day, an unexpected laugh, a mirror that doesn't matter anymore.I am thawing-Lia▶ I failed eating, failed drinking, failed not cutting myself into shreds.
The reader is likely to interpret her feelings as little more than ordinary teenage angst - when eating disorders are much more than that.I hesitate to write this, because there is no one-size-fits-all description of someone with anorexia or bulimia.
I am really amazed by reviewers who say, "Wow, now I understand anorexia!" when Anderson describes only the obsessive thoughts in Lia's head (of course we have no idea why or how they got there) and the way she behaved in response to those thoughts.
I'm cold!) and this book was...it was like reading about a self-destructing snowflake.
I put off this book forever, but I really loved Laurie Halse Anderson's The Impossible Knife of Memory and I knew I needed to read more of her masterpieces.
This book is dangerous and beautiful.
And I feel like Lia did not get the help there that she needed.
So I found that very emotional to read, because Lia NEEDED someone to stand there telling her she was okay and she was loved.
I thought it was beautiful, but there were times when it felt like a filler.
I don’t think I ever read a book that left me so lost, for lack of a better word.
It’s that need you feel as a reader to shield the characters you read about and to save them, but you realize there isn’t anything you can do, but read on.Wintergirls tells the story of Lia, a high school senior who struggles with anorexia.
As the story progresses, things get worse and worse for her - she feels guilty for Cassie’s death, she is haunted by the demons in her head, by the demons of her illness, and she unravels.
WOW. Laurie Halse Anderson knows how to write a good and powerful book!
This was my first read by Laurie Halse Anderson and I now see why people love her writing so much.
She has a way of explaining inner thoughts in beautiful and heart-breaking words and phrases, and while the language is poetic it doesn't drown the actual story.
It's a very strong and impactful story; especially, I would imagine, if you read it as a young adult which this novel is targeted towards.
Laurie Halse Anderson is a master at her craft, and as mentioned earlier I definitely agree with everyone who claims that she writes beautiful, yet haunting stories.
This book gets five stars and not four from me, despite a couple of flaws, because Lia seemed so real and the writing style was wonderful and the language was lovely.I’d highly recommend this book to those treating and caring for those suffering from anorexia nervosa, bulimia, and certain types of mental illnesses.
Apparently, the final copy of the first edition of the book is printed, but she’ll message the editor about my concerns, and if they agree with me it’s possible changes will be made in future reprints.)I had very recently read this author’s book Speak.
In a world riddled with made-for-tv, paint-by-numbers eating disorder cliche, Wintergirls by Laurie Halse Anderson separates itself from the pack.
The set-up is standard: Lia is the caucasian, teenaged daughter of divorced parents.
Anderson goes on to deliver a stark, heart-wrenching account of Lia’s decision to survive or succumb to this frequently misunderstood disorder.
Laurie Halse Anderson is an undoubtedly beautiful writer.
Lia wants to eat, but her disease forbids it.
Eating disorders are rarely about food.
Wintergirls  recognizes this issue and instead explores the reasons Lia starved behind.
To sum up: Highly recommended for teens interested in or struggling with an eating disorder.
Lia, of what I know, was anorexic even before the death of her ex bestfriend Cassie.
Again, I did not finish this book so maybe it was explained further in the story, I don't know.
I did not finish this book, not because I did not like it, but because I could not stand how Lia hurted herself and lied to every single person she encountered.
The thing is I just learned today that I do not really like sad and frustrating books envolving real life problems, mental illness, death and characters I can not connect to all at once.
I don't have a lot insight into the disease so this was a real eye opener for me; I wasn't aware how people with anorexia were able to actually self-discipline themselves to not eat.
What happened in their lives to get them to this point?
Additionally, the author uses a lot of different writing formats that were often annoying/distracting/disorienting ::distracting/disorienting/distracting/disorienting/::while not really adding anything to the story.
All in all it wasn't anything overly special, though I still enjoyed the story.
It had a lot of depth and was really thought provoking, but otherwise it fell flat, just a lil bit.--For more of my reviews, visit my blog at 
Although I couldn't understand what moved Lia to do certain things, I had a good look at her inner world which was a terrifying and bleak place.
I felt extremely sorry for her.My main concern with this book was the fact that I couldn't quite grasp why exactly Lia loathed herself so much.
And what exactly made Lia to finally decide to seek help?
Maybe these things were explained in the book, but I guess way too subtly for my taste.
This is the book that everybody should read, even to just obtain some understanding of what's going on in the minds of people suffering from eating disorders.
Not quite as good as Speak but AHHHH STILL SO GOOD. I want to go eat something now.
Lia had ignored Cassie's numerous phone calls and is now carrying guilt over the loss of her friend which starts a downward spiral of calorie counting and refusal to eat.
To be honest I wasn't a huge fan of Wintergirls when I first started reading this one.
When done though I was glad I did as this one is a look into a territory that I was not at all familiar with and I think it does a good job showing what a girl like Lia is going through.
Speak is one of my all time favorite novels, so to say I was excited to read Wintergirls was an understatement.
I was excited until I realized what Wintergirls was really about: anorexia.
But as hard as it was to read this novel, I felt like it was even harder to put down.
Anderson continues to impress my with her beautifully written novels.
I’ve seen Anderson’s writing described as lyrical and I have to say that I fully agree.
Anderson’s writing is almost hypnotizing, she has a way of explaining a situation thoroughly using as few words as possible.
Είναι φυσιολογικό εξάλλου να μας ενδιαφέρει η εξωτερική εμφάνιση και η υγεία του οργανισμού μας.Πότε όμως αυτό ξεφεύγει από τα πλαίσια του φυσιολογικού και γίνεται αρρώστια που σε κατατρώει,σε φθείρει και σε παγώνει σιγά σιγά;Η Lia παλεύει με τη νευρική ανορεξία,έναν εχθρό που αργεί να γίνει αντιληπτός,μια νόσο που αργεί να παραδοθεί στα χέρια ειδικού γιατί οι ασθενείς,δε τη φοβούνται,αλλά την επιδιώκουν.
After she was dead, I'd do the kindest thing, and have her cremated, and I'd even take a mortar and pestle and grind the bits of bone left into powder, then scatter her ashes over a barren landscape where nothing could survive, and her remains wouldn't accidentally nourish anything in the ground, because that's as close as I could come to providing her heart's (seemingly only)desire-- to weigh absolutely nothing.I don't think the reader is supposed to like Lia. I'm not sure if the reader is supposed to identify with her-- I know I didn't.
Overall I have a feeling this book would be frustrating and disturbing for those who know nothing of disordered eating; and for those with disordered eating, I think it would be very triggering. So really, I wouldn’t recommend Wintergirls to anyone.
I am oh-so-ready for more people I know to have read this book so I can talk with them about it!!Though it will inevitably be compared to SPEAK, I felt like this marked a real advance in Laurie Halse Anderson's ability as a writer in comparison. That said, the main character is dissociated, so it's hard to feel particuarly close to her as a reader. But I think that's the point. I don't think it's an exaggeration at all to say that some readers will find salvation in this book, and for that alone, it deserves a dozen stars.
In a world with a lot of books like Sad Perfect, horribly triggering, non researched, and disgustingly dangerous to the eating disorder community, we have Wintergirls.
This book is well researched, so well written, and Laurie Halse Anderson has created a beautiful piece that is so respectful to those with eating disorders.
She’s a wonderful character, and as weird as this sound, I’m kind of honoured she’s a character that represents eating disorders.Anderson has such a way with writing that took me away.
I am so happy with this book and the way that it portrays eating disorders.
2016 Reading Challenge:  A book with a blue coverOriginally read: 2010Reread: October 2014, March 2016October 2014 / When I first picked up Wintergirls, I was wading quickly into the deep end of an eating disorder without even realising it. If you'd asked me why I struggled so much to eat 'normally', my haughty response would have been something much along the lines of there is nothing wrong with watching what you eat. This book marked the first point in time that I came to realise that I was s
A book with a blue coverOriginally read: 2010Reread: October 2014, March 2016October 2014 / When I first picked up Wintergirls, I was wading quickly into the deep end of an eating disorder without even realising it.
This book marked the first point in time that I came to realise that I was sick.
It made me want to recover, and I'm more grateful for that than I can put into words.
The one author I wanted the very most to meet, and she was every bit as wonderful as I could possibly have imagined.
The scary part of Anderson's novel is that what you're reading about is all too scarily real for a lot of young people in our world today.Lia is a teenage girl with an eating disorder.
Cassie begins to appear to Lia, questioning her and slowly the novel reveals the nature of their friendship and the scary pact the two made together.
Even the horrifying revelation of how Cassie died doesn't deter Lia from her path toward destruction.Lia's story is a scary, dark one that is probably all too real for many young women in our world today.
There are only small steps upward; an easier day, an unexpected laugh, a mirror that doesn't matter anymore."Young, ambitious girls choking on life and set to hurt themselves for the difficulties they face.
What if a book like this pushes one adolescent reader over the edge?
My only concern would be for grown-ups to check their children's reading choices and be aware of the impact of the subject matter on a vulnerable teenager.
It might also be a cry for help if they pick a book like this on purpose.
