https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18790.The_Portable_Faulkner
If you're curious about the powers of William Faulkner but you're intimidated by his long, loopy sentences and dense structures (which is totally understandable) then THIS IS THE BOOK FOR YOU.Cowley's introduction (eloquent, informative) was praised as "splendid" by Faulkner himself.The selections are generous, form a larger social narrative, are representative of his work in a larger context but can be read as separate peices all their own.
Short stories, excerpts from novels, even a detailed character sketch for every character of "Sound...Fury" which are written by Faulkner specifically for this volume.
Those alone are illuminating, georgeously spelled out, moving, and true.You can't go wrong with this pick.
I think I've read most of the stuff in here, probably not all.
with so much of the Faulkner mythos that it would require (from someone like me) careful study, which I didn't do, to get a clear picture of the relationships of the characters, or even how they were related to the protagonist, or even whether the protagonist in the earlier parts actually appeared in the fourth part.I'm sure this description will really turn off a few people, which is okay; Faulkner is probably not your author.
Stories. They endured.
As you probably know, most of Faulkner's work takes place in the fictional Yoknapatawpha County, Mississippi, and this volume collects stories and novel excerpts that give you a sense of the county's history, and arranges them chronologically (by the order in which they took place, not by the order in which Faulkner wrote them).
And then there's the rest of Faulkner's work.Re-reading this helped me realize two things: That Faulkner was a writer who had a peak (the aforementioned two novels plus As I Lay Dying) and the rest of his work ranged from pretty good to questionable, and that he has a couple of fundamental problems as a writer.
I highly recommend Malcolm Cowley's slicing, dicing and rearranging the highlights of Faulkner's works.
Faulkner himself was very impressed with his editor's vision of his works, and said so.
This book is the best way to dive into Faulkner's Yoknapatawpha (god help with the spelling of that world) County.
Because Faulkner re-wrote so many things, literary overlaps, that Cowley parsed and cut and put together this indispensable book.
It's a book that one can pick up, read year after year, for the rest of one's life, and use it like a literary Bible to refresh and renew one's mind and spirit.
This is a collection of stories from several novels and shorts set in Faulkner's brainchild of Yoknapatawpha County.
There are several stories, some stand-outs being "The Courthouse", "Was", "A Rose for Emily" and the "The Bear".
"The Bear" in particular took my breath away.
This collection would be a great way for someone new to Faulkner to break into his sometimes dense writing style, as the stories are collected from different sources and, though ordered chronologically (by setting, not publishing date) one can skip ahead or come back to which stories seem the most (or least) appealing.
Hint: if you start with "The Bear" you will want to read more...
The best and worst of Faulkner. You get the simple poignancy of the Compson family stories, the spooky 'Southern Gothic' in pieces like "A Rose For Emily," but also the needlessly incomprehensible rambling in "Spotted Horses."
The five stars are for Malcolm Cowley, whose introductory comments were invaluable. As for Faulkner himself, I don't know what to say.
Only read "The Bear" and "An Odor of Verbena" on this pass, two short stories that function as my introduction to Faulkner.
In spite of their captivating narratives ("The Bear" presents a man who rejects away his entailment because of its history with slavery and "An Odor of Verbena" centers on a son's ethical conflict regarding the pressure to avenge his father), I found these stories rhetorically stale.
Nevertheless, Faulkner's voice deserves its credit and his ability to weave thematic density with a compelling storyline will bring me back to his writing, hopefully in the form of one of his more extensive works.
This is a massive collection compared to its small cover size. Malcolm Cowley does an excellent job of creating a palatable group of stories by sorting them properly and providing very warranted commentary, and Faulkner's writing does not disappoint either. I'm going to need a new edition of this because the one I have is falling apart and I have a feeling I'll want it on my bookshelf.
Some reading is effortless, even some of Faulkner's writings.
However, the first stories in this historically-ordered collection -- because they delve into truly foreign cultures/peoples in old Mississippi -- are kinda tricky.
One day I couldn't make heads or tails of the dialog, and then the next it would click.
I think it is like being someone who appreciates lots of different styles of music -- I know I don't listen to a whole opera, a great Mingus/Ellington jazz suite, hours of alt/indie rock radio, followed by a rousing bluegrass concert.
There are moods, seasons, jags.
I think there is a Faulkner for every season in this collection.

A great starting point for those who have never read Faulkner and intimidated by his reputation. Malcom Cowley's introduction a must before reading the book, which consists of short stories and selections from novels.Stories and selections are arranged in chronological order as events occur in the fiction. This aids the reader in understanding the complex relation of events and characters that occur in Faulkner's fictional Yoknapotawha County. Faulkner had not written or published the stories in the order that they occurred in the fiction.
Enjoyed it a lot.Really tells how deeply the natives, blacks and whites including slave owners lives were interwoven with each other. We are take back into that time completely. Faulkner has such a deep love of nature and can take you into his deep experience of the natural world he lived in.
When I bought this I did not realize that it had excerpts from his books. This is a good beginning for those who have never read him. Some of his writing is difficult to understand and this skips the difficult parts.
Read this at my great grandmother's house when I was 19 (found it on my dad's old shelf of college books). One of the best books I've ever read in my life. "The Bear" and "Old Man" are worth it. Plus everything else. Kudos to Cowley.
This is a great collection, and also the book that put Faulkner on the map. Malcolm Cowley is a remarkable man, and Faulkner was lucky to have him. Otherwise, who knows? Would anyone have read The Sound and the Fury?
Picked this up because my dad loved Faulkner. Most of his stories are good, but a few make me go wtf? Decided to split reading the book in half to rest my brain. Overall a great read. Truly love Faulkner. Good collection of stories
If you haven't read Faulkner, this is the way to do it. The notes are as interesting as the stories, and the collection covers a good range of his work. "A Rose for Emily" and "An Odor of Verbena" are two particular favorites of mine.
Faulkner is one of my favorite nonfiction authors. His notoriously difficult reading opens doors to extreme and fantastic worlds. This collection is shorts and excerpts
My first non-genre reading selection of the summer....
required reading for any fan of Faulkner
Five stars simply for "The Bear," one of Faulkner's masterpieces. Otherwise, four stars for the collection as a whole.
I was rooting for the bear.
What I remember most about reading Faulkner is the need for plenty of time and solitude to get into his world.I really need to read this again...
Faulkner's great!
GREAT indroduction to Faulkner.
I hated this book.
Essential to help you understand Faulkner and his world.
Started this after listening to "S-Town", couldn't make it through - might try again another time.
