https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6091075-so-long-and-thanks-for-all-the-fish
The heavy rain pours down, lightning flashes in the nearby gloomy hills, illuminating for a brief moment the cheerless surroundings, the miserable, soaked man, tries to hitchhike but nobody will stop in this weather.
Meanwhile back on a real alien world, Mr.Ford Prefect is in deep, deep, trouble, the kind that can get you dead permanently.
Returning to the third planet from the Sun (Sol) Mr.Prefect finally reunites with Arthur, after an extended search, Dent, doesn't answer his home phone, yes he got back , because his friend was too busy teaching Fenny, how to fly ...
1. You will never read anything so British again in your lifespan. 2. If you're a writer, try underlining every adverb in this book. Then, read a book on fiction writing that advises you to avoid using adverbs. (Any ironic chuckling afterwards is optional.) 3. This book should be rated "Mostly Harmless." 4. Thanks, Mr. Adams. So long, and thanks for all the fun.
It is no longer sci-fi since Arthur Dent has come back from space travel to Earth and a good part of the story is his love story.
I mean if you are reading, alongside with this book, the wonderful prose of Alan Hollinghurst or the funny yet strange characters of Anne Tyler, then you'll know what I mean.
It's like reading Shakespeare and upon getting tired, you close it and try Nicholas Sparks.
I still in awe how Adams was able to extend his trilogy to this fourth book without showing that he was tired.
I was like cheering Arthur Dent and Fernchurch, welcome back to earth!
It turns out it takes little more than a moment's questioning to burst our preconceptions at the seams, yet rarely does this stop us from treating the most ludicrous things as if they were perfectly reasonable.It is no surprise that famed atheist Richard Dawkins found a friend and ally in Adams.
By showing a universe that makes no sense and having his characters constantly question it, Adams is subtly hinting that this is the natural human state, and the fact that we laugh and sympathize shows that it must be true.It's all a joke, it's all ridiculous.
Douglas Adams originally only meant to write two sequels to his original classic, and I’m sorry to say, this book shows it.
Arthur is back on earth, courting a new young woman he met recently (who’s got a long list of psychological problems) and through a couple of random events, the two meet up again.
It’s clear that this is a book Adams never meant to publish, and it just seems like a random smattering of ideas and anecdotes he wanted to use in his other books, but never got the chance to.
What random, quirky, and hilarious mysteries lay before Arthur before he can solve the ultimate question?
Arthur goes through so many obstacles that are ridiculous, and random that I laugh until my sides hurt.
It is really off the wall stuff, and I can't help but having a good time reading these books.
I just hitch myself on the ride for a few good laughs and smile on my face.
I somewhat feel a little closer to the ultimate question, but so far away.
Maybe you will figure out the ultimate question or understand the plot, but I am just hitching myself for the ride.
"Arthur no podía creérselo. Treintasegundos de conversacion y ya lo habia echado a perder" Este libro es un giro de tuerca bastante considerable en comparación con el resto de los libros de esta saga, se nota un alejamiento considerable al tono y temática, pudiendo ubicar más por el lado de comedia romantico (si, dije eso) que ciencia ficción y no es que sea malo, de hecho es una relación que puede ser muy divertida pero que aun teniendo a Dent se siente completamente desconectado.Personalmente
"Arthur no podía creérselo.
Treintasegundos de conversacion y ya lo habia echado a perder"
Arthur and Fenchurch's romance is touching, especially a chapter where they both fly through the clouds together, but storywise it doesn't really go anywhere - the identity of Earth's saviours is fairly evident from the books title (though incidentally, why is there a picture of a sea lion on the cover - misdirection?), and Fenchurch never remembers her divine plan for world peace.At the end Adams tags on a coda where Arthur and Fenchurch meet up with Ford Prefect and Marvin (who dies, again) to read God's Last Message To His Creation, following up on the finale of Life, the Universe and Everything, but if anything this feels almost tagged on simply to please the fans of the previous novels.
He is more confident in who he is, and how to get around, while still maintaining his bumbling ways with women, which naturally leads the reader into the romantic comedy of the story.I know many people who have never read any of the Hitchhiker's Guide books because they are "not into sci-fi", or simply didn't get much of the humor in the initial trilogy.
For them, I think that the prize of getting to this, the fourth book in the (inappropriately named) trilogy, will make reading the first three books worthwhile*.
Sorry for the Inconvenience16 November 2016 When I first read this book I loved it namely because I happened to be a hopeless romantic and our protagonist, Arthur Dent, finally gets a girlfriend. Well, finally is probably not the best way to describe it because Adams does raise the possibility that Arthur may have had a relationship with Trillian (and when the question is metaphorically asked the reply is basically 'none of your business'), and also suggests that there is a rather long gap betwe
The other thing is that for a bulk of the book the story is set not only on Earth, but both Arthur and Ford are going their separate ways – it isn't until we get close to the end that the two once again come together, but it is only for a short while as Arthur and his girlfriend (Fenchurch, so called because she was conceived in the ticket line at Fenchurch Street station, though my only experience of Fenchurch Street station is having a meal at a pub underneath it) head off to try and find God's final message to humanity (or the Universe to be precise).
The focus is on Arthur Dent: after years of being kicked around by the universe, poor Arthur finally finds himself in a good old fashioned love story.Well, maybe “old fashioned” is a poor choice of words.
He spends some time investigating how the hell he could be back on Earth considering it was destroyed in the first book, sure, but the story is principally concerned with Arthur and:”What is he, man or mouse?
Others may wish to skip on to the last chapter which is a good bit and has Marvin in it.”Before diving into this series for the third time, I considered this book to be the weakest of the five.
Addio e grazie per il buonumoreSe alla quarta puntata della serie iniziata con la “Guida galattica per autostoppisti” sono ancora a svagarmi nei romanzi di questo sottovalutato geniaccio di Douglas Adams è soprattutto per il buonumore che ogni volta la sua lettura mi procura.Pur essendo ben lontano dai vertici della narrativa, questo humour tipicamente inglese, che flirta col non-sense e richiama lo spirito dei Monty Python e la fantasia creativa di Kurt Vonnegut (che non è inglese ma in qusta compagnia ci sta…) ha la sottile capacità di divertire, divertire e divertire.
Poznata je činjenica da svaka trilogija u pet nastavaka ima genijalan četvrti nastavak. Douglas Adams je genije. Njegovo poigravanje sa SF žarom, kao da se ruga apsolutno svakom kalupu u koji ga žele smjestiti, a usput se ruga i gotovo svemu na ovom planetu, od demokracije do masovne halucinacije, pa do vječnog pitanja smisla života i znanosti. Toliko mi je žao da sam na pretposljednjem nastavku, žao mi je što svaku od ovih knjiga pročitam kroz nekoliko sati, volim ovo ludo putovanje svemirom i svaki put tako kratko traje.
I understand that for many people it's the least popular, because almost the whole thing takes place on earth and it focuses mainly just on Arthur Dent and not the other characters.
After the somewhat overwhelming third book, it was a relief to have a novel that didn't keep jumping around between characters and plot, and just focus on one thing at a time.Plus, this story had a much more human element to it that the others did not.
It seemed like the book ended on a really exciting note, with the newly formed emotional bond between Arthur and Fenchurch intersecting with the exciting space travel that had been involved in the other books.
By the fourth installment, any misgivings I had with the nature of the story and Adams' humor have been well underscored by a frustration at such a cynical attempt by the author to produce something for the sake of producing it.
There is an interesting love story nestled in the middle of this one that remains nice if and only if one can overlook the fact that Adams, like so many other times in this series, went back to the first novel, strip mined a throwaway line for a high concept and decided to weave an entire story around it.
It was a throwaway line for a reason.
So I'll do something I've never done before: write an honest review while trying to explain the reasons I didn't like this book as much as the other three.I didn't dislike this 4th book (in a trilogy of 5) but can't avoid a certain uneasiness after reading it.My first emotion was of disappointment, but towards the end of the novel I started to like it a little bit more.
Audiobook. Useful for insomnia.
The giant robot at the end was also a lot of fun, and I laugh whenever I think of him lying awkwardly on his face on the beach at Bournemouth.
The satire works so well because it's set against such a fabulous backdrop.
When things stay earthbound, the satire is a bit more hum-drum, and the book as a whole has a bit of a darker feel.The plots also a bit haphazard - I almost got the sense that Adams just didn't really enjoy writing this one as much.
It has it's moments, but I don't think it really stands up to the first three.
If you love any of Doug Adam's work, you will be sorry to miss this one.If you are unfamiliar with his work, I urge you to begin with the Hitchhiker's Guide and move through them in order.
Meh. Didn't like this one as much as the others, not sure why. It was similar to the rest, but just didn't grab me at any point. The only part I really liked was the inside out house, that made me giggle, and it was neat, but it was too short of a part and that was really all that interested me.
I love this series. I laugh so hard when I read it, and I don't mean like low chuckle and a smile, I mean laughing so that other people look at me and I have trouble explaining to them why I'm laughing in public laughs.
"The recurring impression he had that just when he was least expecting it, the universe would suddenly leap out from behind a door and go boo at him".
Two women looking at the Pacific for the first time and one says "It's not as big as I expected".
A & F find God's final message to creation ("We apologise for the inconvenience").Brief summary and favourite quotes from the other four of the five books, as follows:Hitchhiker's Guide (vol 1): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Restaurant at the End of Universe (vol 2): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Life, the Universe and Everything (vol 3):http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...Mostly Harmless (vol 5): http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...And Another Thing...(vol 6), by Eoin Colfer : https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This was one of my least favorite books in the series but still moderately entertaining, like a drunk who rambles but is periodically hilarious.
Or an adventure has concluded, everyone goes home, but the story just doesn't know when to quit.
I feel like I as the reader sit around a lot waiting for something to happen while Adams drags this out with his often long-winded-and-rambling-for-comedic-effect-and-also-hard-to-follow sentences.
Arthur goes to the pub, cafeteria, is perpetually awkward.
And just when you think the adventure is over, because it really was but Adams tugged them back into space, there's a whole nother book.
WARNING: This review contains a slight spoiler.(view spoiler)[At the end of Life, the Universe and Everything, the third book in Douglas Adams' five-book “trilogy,” as in the first two — The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and The Restaurant at the End of the Universe — Arthur Dent pines due to the destruction of his home planet, Earth.Only it didn’t happen.
However, Adams has completely redeemed himself here.What I can reveal is that So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish finds Earthman Arthur Dent, who thought he was literally the last man in the universe, reveling in new love and coming into his own.
Comical and back on track to amusing. I liked it. It made up for book 3 in the series for which I wasn't too fond. For those making their way through the series, I almost want to recommend skipping book 3 and going straight to 4. I don't think you will miss much. And I don't think it's absolutely necessary to have read 3 to comprehend 4. The old quirky humor was back and the weirdness was gone. The old quirky humor was back and the weirdness was lessened. Excuse me. *Clears throat* The consiste
For those making their way through the series, I almost want to recommend skipping book 3 and going straight to 4.
And I don't think it's absolutely necessary to have read 3 to comprehend 4.
*Clears throat* The consistently quirky humor was ever present and so was the weirdness but it applied to the storyline so it was much more tolerable and we actually welcomed it.
Hello weirdness without you we'd not believe we were reading a Douglas Adams book.
Although it varies very much from the books, those actors at whom I visualize as the characters as I read.
And Marvin, who was my favourite character of the lot didn’t come around till the very, very last bit of the book.Secondly, unlike the first three books where the author almost deliberately steered clear of any hint of romance, even between Zaphod and Trillian who were in a relationship at the time.
So yeah, I really, really hope that the next book has Zaphod, Trillian and Marvin in it as well and they all go on an adventure together, like old times and that Arthur dumps what’s-her-name.
More or less pointless, yet exceedingly charming. Adams' writing is in killer form here, hilarious and touching as ever. Books #3 and #4 are pretty much about nothing (in retrospect, book #3, 'Life, The Universe, and Everything,' has a brilliant title), yet they could have been about Something and I would feel pretty much the same about it, I'm sure. It's the quality of writing I go in for, and Adams can't be beat at what he does. I loved every minute of reading this tiny book, and believe me, there were several.
Less frentic, easier to digest, more thoughtful than the previous installment, with a cute, quirky romance, and much less galaxy hopping. The humor is more subtle, the jokes have breathing room. A welcome change of pace.
From the Forward:"Douglas Adams was tall.
He was brilliant: I’ve met a handful of geniuses, and I’d count him as one of them.
He was a frustrated performer, a remarkable explainer and communicator, an enthusiast.
He was an astonishing comic writer: he could craft sentences that changed the way a reader viewed the world, and sum up complex and difficult issues in aptly chosen metaphors.
He combined the trappings of science fiction with profound social commentary and a healthy sense of humour to create fresh worlds.
He was a competent guitarist, a world traveller, an environmentalist, a man who held remarkably wonderful parties, a gourmand.
The penultimate book from the wonderful Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy.
