https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/823561.I_the_Jury
There were some fancy boys “jogging” and I glared a contemptuous good morning to them.Inside I had my usual breakfast: three raw eggs and three fingers of Kentucky bourbon.
We glared a contemptuous good morning to each other and I went inside.Standing outside my office door, I first saw the dame.
I, I just don’t have words,” she stammered and then broke down in wet, girly tears.“That’s OK, kid, I know the score,” I said as I took off my jacket, “You look like you could use manly hug.” I glared at her contemptuously, and did some more knuckle pushups, downed a man-sized slug of the good stuff, and moved in.
By 1980, seven of the top 15 all-time bestselling fiction titles in America were written by Spillane.
“I, the Jury” introduced the series hero Mike Hammer whose hard-drinking, tough-talking, woman-beating, whisky-swilling machismo answered the needs of the postwar "male action" market.Hammer is less a detective than an ultra-violent vigilante.
In the story, Hammer’s marine ‘buddy’ Jack, who lost an arm saving Hammer's life in the Pacific, is sadistically murdered.
Spillane's patriotism was, however, always tinged with a pessimistic, quasi-religious sense of doom, and in the early 1960s he predicted a race war in America.
As a pulp author, Spillane's guiding principle was that "violence will outsell sex every time".
Hammer seems to possess a photographic memory, recalling that he had seen a phone number once upon a time .
Not.)Spillane's writing is really pretty dreadful, at times laughably bad.
Our time will come, but it must be right."Groan!If you can cut through all this over-the-top B.S., there's a absorbing little mystery to be solved, but it's a pretty big IF.
I'll tell you this - IF I hadn't been reading this for a group, I'd have quit a few pages in, and IF my used copy hadn't arrived signed by the author, this book would already be in the library donation box.
I would be the first to admit one of my problems was reading this book right after Raymond Chandler who really was a great writer.
To call Mike Hammer two-dimensional would be a great insult to a countless number of very well written two-dimensional characters from all literature genres.
The novel has some charm even with all of its problems, I am not completely sure I will never read any more books of the series in the future; I might.
For anybody who wants to read a good book of the genre please look into real masters: Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler.
I, The Jury is the first Mickey Spillane book I’ve read and, despite being a fan of the hardboiled detective genre, and enjoying this book, it will probably be the last.All the elements for a good murder mystery are in place here.
While those disturbing attitudes may have been inherent to Mike Hammer, the language used wasn't relevant to the story and I'm confused as to why Spillane chose to include it, especially since it didn't add to the charm, or myth, or valor, of his hero.
Ένα από τα κλασικότερα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα νουάρ όλων των εποχών, και για πολλούς, κλασικό αριστούργημα και διαμαντάκι' της αστυνομικής λογοτεχνίας.Είναι το βιβλίο όπου ο Σπιλέιν γνωρίζει στο αναγνωστικό κοινό τον σκληροτράχηλο και ντόμπρο ιδιωτικό ντετέκτιβ, Μάικ Χάμερ, ο οποίος είναι ακαταμάχητος στις γυναίκες, και αδίστακτος διώκτης του εγκλήματος και της αδικίας.Σε αυτό το 1ο βιβλίο, οι αναγνώστες, ίσως, αντιδράσουν στο απόλυτο και ιδιαίτερα αρρενωπό στυλ του Χάμερ, απορρίπτοντας το ως
Ωστόσο, στη συγκεκριμένη ιστορία, ένας από τους καλύτερους του φίλους δολοφονείται, οπότε και ο ντετέκτιβ θέλει να πάρει εκδίκηση για το χαμό του, θίγοντας με αυτό τον τρόπο το νόημα της αληθινής φιλίας που δεν έχει βέβαια καμία σχέση με την αυτοδικία.Ο Σπιλέιν, έξυπνα, υφαίνει έναν ιστό που στα δίχτυα του μπλέκονται πολλά ετερόκλητα άτομα από το χώρο του υποκόσμου, της τέχνης και του πνεύματος, σχολιάζοντας εμμέσως το πόσο λεπτά ήταν στην μεταπολεμική Αμερική τα όρια μεταξύ νόμιμης 'πρόσοψης' και ουσιαστικής παρανομίας.

Spillane was an early favorite of mine, although I never cared for the Mike Hammer series as much as some of his other works.
Hammer makes a lot of bombastic speeches which works better for me on screen or in Spillane's western, The Big Showdown, which was written for The Duke.
It was a better book when I was 13, but I'm afraid it's lost its luster.Most of my favorites are his short stories & standalone books.
The Tough Guys has 3 good short stories, the last of which is "The Bastard Bannerman" which he later turned into The Erection Set, one of my favorite standalone novels.
Mike Hammer investigates the murder of a former cop and war buddy, Jack Williams, in what turns out to be a race against the law with one determined to bring the killer to justice, the other, hell bent on exacting his own form of vengeance.
Bullets reign supreme and bodies fall quicker than shell casings as the list of suspects dwindles and Hammer’s sight becomes blinded by a too good to be true vixen.
Mike Hammer’s style is blunt, forceful and everything his polar opposite, Pat, is not.
In I, THE JURY, Hammer comes up against prostitution, drugs, murder, and deceit as he narrows the suspects down to the killer.
This is quite the opposite of how I feel when reading a McGee, Scudder, Parker, or Hap and Leonard series book.
I thought I, the Jury started better than I remembered, but the rest of the book was pretty boring despite a quick pace.
I think that's because, unlike all those other series protagonists, Mike Hammer is boring.
I can imagine, post WWII, how an alpha-male, silent-type, might be popular, just don't get how Spillane's style got to the top of the heap.As for the plot, the biggest disappointment for me was knowing from very early on who the killer was and than having that turn out to be right.
I like to think I’m pretty broad minded when it comes to reading older books.
When Mike explains that he’s going to shoot the bad guy dead, the cops sort of suggest he shouldn’t, but you get the sense they’ll overlook the faux pas if he does.
Mike won’t lose any sleep over it.The book was an interesting snapshot of another time and is probably worth a read for this reason alone.
But if you want your PI hard boiled all the way through, he might be what you’re looking for.
Mickey Spillane is such a pleasure to read.This first Mike Hammer story has all the hallmarks of the hardboiled detective novel but with the added bonus of the protagonist being a complete and unashamed misogynist, unafraid of offending anyone.
You jump on and ride like the wind through intrigue, fist fights, witty dialogue, sexual encounters and the inevitable denouement.Having said that I was left wondering right to the final line whether Hammer would keep the promise he makes at the start of the novel as Spillane skillfully demonstrates how to write a great hero and put him in a tough spot that people want to read about.
Meet Mike Hammer: tough-talking, dame-loving, feisty wise-guy-punching private eye. The wise-cracking first-person narrative was greatly informed by author Spillane's work writing superhero funny books in the 1940s and it fits perfectly since Hammer himself is a larger-than-life, over-the-top caricature who loves to rough up the baddies and tweak the nose of uptight authority figures. The heart of the story is an overly-convoluted mystery with an improbable ending but if you can look past the regrettable stereotypes and slurs that were probably eye-raising even 70+ years ago, there's lots of pulpy fun to be had.
From language ("let me alone" instead of "leave me alone", and the author feeling he needed to explain the phrase "cold turkey") to clothing (Mike Hammer visits his tailor no fewer than three times in the first novel, and he always wears a hat), to science (the "expert psychoanalyst" sounded like a sophomoric dumbass when talking about psychology, and hypnotism works differently in the novel than in real life) The starkest difference was sociological.
Sexism, racism, and even a bout of homophobia when Mike throws water on a couple of "fruits" who are fighting.After thinking about it, I realized that this novel is a lot like a trashy romance, except it's written for men.
Spillane is not Raymond Chandler or Dashiell Hammett, he doesn't have their depth or their darkness or their humanity ...
but what he has, he certainly has.
And he has energy and movement and, while his style is certainly not as developed as above company, his style has a rawness about it that suits the narrative medium he's operating in."Those big-shot writers could never dig the fact that there are more salted peanuts consumed than caviar..."If you read my little background history of my novel you'll see that I credit my father introducing Spillane to me in particular with putting the whole package together.
Chandler and Hammett can be bad enough, but this is -- whoa.
It's written slickly enough, and Hammer is almost ridiculously, hilariously hard-boiled -- with a sticky, too-sweet centre that doesn't taste right.
He's not exactly Chandler's "shop-soiled Galahad" -- heck, not even a Lancelot.It was really hard to enjoy that for those reasons, and because I guessed the killer well in advance.
It's enjoyable enough as a trashy read, but I hope to god no one takes it seriously.I was going to strike the other two books off my list, but apparently Hammer gets a little less offensive and Spillane's plot gets a bit tighter, so I'll try them.
Great fun to read - love the "shoot/punch now, ask questions later" character of Mike Hammer.Will definitely be reading more of this series.

Mike Hammer is the prototypical tough-guy private dick, and the world he inhabits is one where women are either dames or broads, guns are rods, and nobody is ever truly trustworthy.
"I, the Jury" introduced the world to Mike Hammer.
It's been filmed for the big screen at least three times that I can remember, but none of them have come close to the sheer brilliance and, well, shocking-ness (I'm an English teacher, I swear...) of Spillane's straightforward-as-a-bullet prose.
I even remember watching and enjoying the 80s TV show starring Stacy Keach.
I was introduced to reading by my roommate, whose taste in books included the likes of Donald Hamilton, J.D. MacDonald and Mickey Spillane.
So when the money was about to run out we read.
I probably read ever Mike Hammer, Matt Helm and Travis McGee written at the time along with any book with similar bad guys and women that we could get our hands own.
I vaguely remember the details of “I, The Jury” but figured out who done it quickly (only because I had read most all of the Hammer books and had knowledge of his character).
Most all detective stories, which I primarily enjoy as puzzles/challenges (like a sudoku or a chess game or a math puzzle), leave me to some extent dismayed at the end: minor or even flagrant illogicalities/improbabilities abound, as do instances of the author's glaring ignorance of his (more often her) subject matter (armchair travelers/philosophers' writing -lack of legwork) ...
Strong writing, too - a bit annoying now and then because of its adolescent preoccupation with fighting, drinking and so, above all its repetitious mention of women's physical qualities (and there we have yet another pair of incredibly sexy legs ...
I just love the name Mike Hammer.
Hilarity already!Know who else loves Mike Hammer?
I think we see all of them but two naked, and we hear about all of their (but one's) breasts (and Mr. H.
But trust me, if we had another 25 pages or so her breasts would also be alive and struggling against the binding fabric of her blouse too, really.)I think I was expecting Raymond Chandler and I got a mix of Arthur Kade and Jesse James.
(I was thinking at first that I meant the outlaw Jesse James, as killed by Robert Ford, but motorcycle mechanic/womanizer/racist J.J. may be the better fit.)
Now that I got that out of the way, I really did enjoy this book.
Yes, it’s dated with it’s ideals and perception of society, but this was the 50s and the mindset of America was a completely different one (although tRump is determined to set the clocks back to this period of time which we need not revisit, but that’s an altogether different matter).
That being said, I enjoyed the grit and pulp of I, The Jury and it’s realistic dialogue of an era one can only find in film noir.
It’s a quick, slim read, and if you can wince past some of the dated references, Spillane’s world of dames, .45s, and street smart criminals is worth a try.
Mike Hammer's a tough guy.
A real tough guy and the ladies and the crooks just cannot leave him alone.
The scenes and confrontations have just the right balance of tension and action and Mike's relationship with the Police is enjoyable.Now I'm a guy, and Spillane appears to be writing just for guys.
The Jury are two dimensional would flatter the writer, and if I were a woman I would probably find the whole thing rather laughable.
In short I the ending was a bit s@$%.A good read - but probably won't read another.
So my husband had to read “I, the Jury” for a popular fiction course and recommended it to me because he thought I’d get a kick out of it.
Mickey Spillane’s Mike Hammer is another type of sleuth altogether.
Hammer is a 1940s-era hard-boiled macho man who shoots first and asks questions later.
At one point in this book Hammer threatens a man by telling him: “I’ll smack you so hard you’ll spill your insides all over the joint!”.
Now I think I’m going to read a dense classic to punish myself for spending time on “I, the Jury”.
The first Mike Hammer book by Mickey Spillane, I The Jury has action, it has dames, it has suspense and drama. Mike Hammer lives among comic book type action and is loved by the ladies like James Bond. If one can now look past the dated, male-centric tone, this is a book to be read for pulp fiction lovers.
A very good first page: few authors put the crime right on page one.Pace=5: A thrilling one-sit read.Plot=5: A classic who-done-it, but on steroids.
About 2 men playing tennis, Spillane writes: "A couple of pansies trying to decide who would be the queen of May." A stupid, hateful line.
Then, the author has Mike throw water from the window of a house at them, but they are still on a tennis court.
And, oddly, the big man Mike Hammer refuses any sexual advances by the ladies because the time isn't right.
I, the Jury opens with the passing of private specialist Mike Hammer's companion, Jack.
Jack, obviously, isn't only a companion however the man who spared Hammer's life amid the war.
This little truth drives Hammer to swear that will he discover Jack's executioner as well as establish a touch of Old Testament, tit for tat, style equity when he discovers whoever did it.
A man who, by his own particular word, isn't hesitant to execute somebody to accomplish equity yet who resolvedly declines to lay down with lady he needs to wed before they are hitched; at that point runs off and lays down with another person.
After several decades I decided to re-read this classic on what would have been Mickey Spillane's 100th birthday.
Having read at least a hundred hard boiled detective books since then, this one has lost a bit of it's shine from what I remember from reading it the first time.
It was his first novel and on a second reading I can see that it lacks the sharp cutting descriptive prose of some of his later books.
The fact that I remember that says something about the impact of this book.
Released in 1974 it gave Charles Bronson a new impetus in his acting career; playing the vigilante, out to find and kill those responsible for murdering his wife.Some 25 years earlier in 1947 Mickey Spillane’s first Mike Hammer book was published.
Respect then to this book with such bold ideas where we meet the main protagonist as such a man.He is the judge, jury and executioner of Jack’s killer and even Pat uses the press to publish Mike’s speech of vengeance hoping it will flush the killer out.Reader’s new to Spillane and the backdrop to his writing of Hammer must understand it was a different time.
