https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1182095.The_Branch_Will_Not_Break
The American darkness, its hunted and its misfits, still haunt his verse, but there are moments here when—like the blue jay in a pine tree featured in “Two Hangovers”--Wright warbles with new lyricism, with even a touch of optimism, convinced that, at least for this particular moment, “the branch" upon which he sings "will not break.”I have chosen three specimens to end my review, the first one because I believe it to be one of the finest examples of personification in American poetry (and also because it shows Wright's gentle humor), the second because it perfectly evokes the countryside surrounding my present home of Columbus, Ohio, and the third because it shows James Wright in one of his (all too rare) moments of perfect joy.
I know this book like I know my burned copy of 'August and Everything After'. "Suddenly I realizeThat if I stepped out of my body I would breakInto Blossom"Perfect.
Nature poetry - I somehow never cared for it. But even Wordsworth would be a Wright fan. Poetry should be felt; not read. And boy, do you feel this.
James Wright makes me want to lick the pages. "I have wasted my life."
I have just re-read this collection. I am thinking that if ever there were one volume where you could register the break from an Audenesque intelligent formalism to a free-spirited (yes, 60s!) almost-Chinese use of images in an American mode: this is the book! I think it is high-time for a James Wright reevaluation in the American poetry tradition (ignoring his son's work for maybe a decade or so....)
Like this one:Depressed by a Book of Bad Poetry, I Walk Toward an Unused Pasture and Invite the Insects to Join MeRelieved, I let the book fall behind a stone.I climb a slight rise of grass.I do not want to disturb the antsWho are walking single file up the fence post,Carrying small white petals,Casting shadows so frail that I can see through them.I close my eyes for a moment and listen.The old grasshoppersAre tired, they leap heavily now,Their thighs are burdened.I want to hear them, they have clear sounds to make.Then lovely, far off, a dark cricket beginsIn the maple trees.Or this one:MilkweedWhile I stood here, in the open, lost in myself,I must have looked a long timeDown the corn rows, beyond grass,The small house,White walls, animals lumbering toward the barn.I look down now.
While James Wright won't be vying for my favorites list, I did enjoy several poems in this collection, and respect his craft.3.5/5
I did start to question how many times a poet can get away with writing "dark" in a poem, and was reminded of what poet Steve Orlen once said to a classmate of mine: "Do all poems want to be beautiful?" If you're interested in an exploration and gentle critique of Wright's early work, look at Robert Hass' essay on James Wright in "20th Century Pleasures." But despite some qualifications, I still find this a lyrical, imagistic, surprising, resilient, formative book.
Though Hugo's whole essay applies, I especially love these irreverent words in relation to Wright: "To write a poem you must have a streak of arrogance, not in real life I hope.
I have so many words and phrases underlined that I might as well not have underlined any...for instance, in "A Blessing" Wright describes standing before a wild horse in the darkness as "a light breeze moves me to caress her long ear/that is delicate as the skin over a girl's wrist./Suddenly I realize/that if I stepped out of my body I would break/Into blossom." My goodness.
Second, "delicate as the skin over a girl's wrist" puts any simile I've ever written, ever THOUGHT off, to shame.In another poem, Wright tells us "the moon is out hunting...walking down hallways of a diamond." I have no intellectual clue what a diamond's hallways are...but intuitively, this line resonates and carries a tremendous lightness and spirit.
It's a real treat to walk the hallways of Wright's poems.
In this collection there is Wright's famous poem, "A Blessing" near the end of the book; however, what I find really strong with the book is the definitions of terms built up so "dark" means another thing, as of other seemingly innocuous words like "friend" or "mare." Aside for "A Blessing" there are a lot of strong poems which I feel could be read individually as well as part of a collection, "The Undermining of the Defense Economy," "Twilights," "Fear is What Quickens Me" just to name a few that I've marked for me to read again.I would highly recommend this book for someone seeing how a collection should be crafted.
James Wright's poetry is like a beautiful hallucination.
You think when you read A Blessing in school, that beautiful ending line about breaking out into blossom, and you think that's as good as it gets.
But it gets better.
Or, just as good.
With some not so good ones thrown in, but there aren't an awful lot of those.
Who writes a poem and calls it" Today I was So Happy, So I Made This Poem"?
No one could get away with that today.
Beauty, sadness, pretty little pictures of perfect moments.
That's what James Wright's poems are to me.
Even the dark ones.
I'm not the hugest fan of poetry, but I'm taking a poetry class and this was one of the collections we're reading.
I read through it in about twenty minutes, mostly because the author is from around where I live and I wanted to see what he wrote about.
That said, I actually liked it.
I'm not the best at deciphering what is being said in poetry, but this collection was pretty easy to breeze through and I didn't have too much difficulty with it.
I found several of the poems to be quite beautiful.
All in all, it was an enjoyable read.

I bought this slim volume of poetry months ago because of its high rating on Goodreads. On the jacket of the book it says it should be read at least 3X s and then maybe once a month of as long as one lives. The first time I tried to read it....I was not impressed.....did not get the couple poems I read and set it aside. I decided to try it again.....and really liked it. Most of the poems are simple and elegant . The third time I've read it.....some poems are wonderful....some still mystify me.
It may be admitting my ignorance, but I didn't really understand most of this poetry. Some had rhyme and most had some structure, many portrayed an emotion somehow, but I could not understand his meaning. Was it all metaphors above my head? Having read it all in one sitting aloud and alone, I began to enjoy it more, but understanding still the same. I would love an intellectual discussion group to dissect it and debate possible meanings.
Haunting. Deserves a reread. Good verse.
the football poem..
I didn't get it.I've had this on my TBR for two or more years, having added it in a fit of "I should read more poetry" and then, of course not reading it because... poetry (an also because it took an academic library to have a copy of it for me to peruse.)Put this on the pile of poetry I don't understand the big deal about. There were a few great phrases here and there but altogether it fell flat for me. IDK, I'm not a poetry critic or anything. Anyway, YMMV but for me it just sort of existed.
So Ive reconsidered James Wright. I dont care about some of the pretense, whether he has read Goethe or Sappho, which says little about him as writer.. maybe more about him trying to pander to critics. The best poems are the ones without allusion, the taut nature poems. You definitely sense some ideological kinship with Merwin, the sense of deeper image, nature interpreted with a religious magniscope at a speed that few can muster, he has seen magic lay still whereas we can only aspire to imagine it.
One of the best poetry books of the 20th century. Wright learned the surreal image from Trakl and Vallejo and others, and joined it to the personal elegiac tone of the classical Chinese poets and came up with a profoundly beautiful and emotional poetry that captured well the rust belt despair of Ohio. It's a great book for young poets to read in order to think through how to order a book of poems.
Wow, just... Wow. This was much more heavy on local references, which I loved. James Wright has an incredible talent for writing poems that are mystical and earthy all at once. And the context of the title's quote is just wonderful. Highlights: How My Fever Left, Two Hangovers, A Blessing, American Wedding."Suddenly I realizeThat if I stepped out of my body I would breakInto blossom."--A Blessing.
It's hard to move this book from "currently reading" to "read," because from the moment I picked this book up, I've been reading it. It's like my poetry security blanket (which I once said about Ralph Angel, so to him I apologize for having "replaced" him... I like to think of Wrigh and Angel as Doggy and Dolly, my little dog and blanket puppet I carried around until I was 6 or 7. One is not enough.) A wonderful collection that everyone and anyone interested in poetry should read.
Some of these are among the most excellent poems I've ever read, and some are among that overhyped pantheon of Robert Frost nature introspection that makes much popular contemporary American poetry so dull. It's almost as though the poet stumbles upon greatness accidentally, but really I think it's more the case that he wasted his talents on words already written to death about New Hampshire.
I'm adding a new shelf called 'i-dont-get-it' for stuff like this. For the books that I can technically mark as 'read'--in the fact that I read the words that were written down on all of the pages page--but that I just wasn't able to arrange in my head in any meaningful order. Know that any star ratings for books on this shelf can and should be ignored. Expect this shelf to fill up quickly.
Probably my absolute favorite book of poems. Should be required reading for anyone from small cities that are suffering from lack of industrialization or modernization. He was trained by Roethke from Saginaw too and there are some elements of that in there. Title poem is probably my favorite, but others from the book are more famous.
Favorites: "As I Step Over a Puddle at the End of Winter, I Think of an Ancient Chinese Governor," "Lying on a Hammock at William Duffy's Farm in Pine Island, Minnesota," "Two Horses Playing in a Field," "Rain," "Today I Was Happy, So I Made This Poem," and "Milkweed."
A beautiful mosaic of the triumphs and failings of the American Dream. There are definitely stand out pieces but read as a whole it is an incredible experience.
One of my favorite books of poetry.
This is a classic!!
This book changed my life. It is by far my favorite work. Period.
I really enjoy these poems. They were silent poems. Spiritual... Will say more about this at a later time...
