https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18006496-queen-of-shadows
I think we all deserve it after dealing with Aelin and the author's bullshit, am I right?Now, let's get down to business.How to ruin a book series by adding absurd romantic subplots and destroying some characters for the sake of a ship: A novel by Sarah J.
Aelin blamed him for everything--leaving Dorian, having a part in Nehemia's death, working for the King of Adarlan and never killing him.
He was dedicated to his Prince and King, and yet the author created this poor excuse of him having a relationship with Nesryn Faliq even before Throne of Glass so he wouldn't mind seeing Aelin and Rowan together.
“Maybe the world should burn.” Epicness. That's the only word I can think of to describe Queen of Shadows in order to encompass its complexity and awesomeness, because while I loved Throne of Glass and Crown of Midnight blew my mind away and Heir of Fire broke my heart into teensy tiny pieces, neither of those installments felt as grand as this one -- worlds collided, debts were paid and a queen rose to her glory.   “Let’s go rattle the stars.” I'm going to start by saying that I've read it twi
That's the only word I can think of to describe Queen of Shadows in order to encompass its complexity and awesomeness, because while I loved Throne of Glass and Crown of Midnight blew my mind away and Heir of Fire broke my heart into teensy tiny pieces, neither of those installments felt as grand as this one -- worlds collided, debts were paid and a queen rose to her glory.
The fact that he's Aelin's male version is only a shade of his real personality -- he had me tearing up and smiling at the same time with his boundless love for his queen and his loyalty and sarcasm were a recipe for instant swooning.
It depends on whether you are committed enough to this series and these characters to read 650 pages of just okay.This book is loooonnnng.
Like other much-loved fantasy greats, her books have become more layered, with other characters, perspectives and side stories existing alongside Aelin/Celaena's story.
Though, I personally don't care for many of these characters and I have to force myself not to skim-read through their chapters to get back to the main story.And, to be honest, a whole lot of this huge book (about two thirds) feels like set-up for what is going to happen.
We're about 2000 pages into this series and I honestly don't think I can take any more about how amazing Aelin/Celaena is.
There is such complexity and poignancy in each of their stories, and I loved every single one of them, as well as what Aelin's interactions with them showed about her character.3.
I get why people might be upset by (view spoiler)[Rowan and Aelin getting together, and maybe if there hadn't been so much previous back and forth with Dorian and Chaol, and if Chaol hadn't pretty much disavowed Aelin through most of this book, the new relationship would've been more palatable (hide spoiler)], but I'm pretty happy with the way the way the big change develops and is described in and of itself.
Updated: September 30th. This is  my  opinion,  my  review and if you don't like it, I don't care.#CHAOLWESTFALLDEFENSESQUAD-------------------------------------------------------------------------I FEEL BETRAYED.At first, I wanted to write a long, very long review about Queen of Fanfiction but then i tought Why sould I waste my time? It's not worth it. This thing.. i call it "thing" because for me QoS is not a book,  it's a very poorly written fanfiction. CONGRATULATIONS SJM FOR RUINING A GREAT
i call it "thing" because for me QoS is not a book, 
CONGRATULATIONS SJM FOR RUINING A GREAT SERIES!!!.
This new Aelin was so bad that she didn't ever care about saving Dorian, her friend.
Dorian was left aside because Maas cared more about Aelin & Rowan's adventures that what was really going on with his character.
He deserved better than what he got.But you know why she did all this, right??R O W A E L I N.All for the sake of a ship.
I'm not gonna continue reading this trash.
CHAOL WESTFALL DESERVED BETTER!!
DORIAN DESERVED BETTER.
SPOILERY BOOK DISCUSSION HERE - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l_GL7...THIS WAS ABSOLUTELY EVERYTHING I WANTED AND NEVER KNEW I NEEDED. THANK YOU SARAH FOR THIS PERFECT BEAUTIFUL BOOK.Here are some of my spoiler-free impressions:DORIAN. PRECIOUS CINNAMON ROLL. I CAN'T.AELIN. QUEEN OF SHADOWS. MORE LIKE QUEEN OF SLAYING YASSSSS GET IT GIRL.ROWAN. i'M SCREAMING.CHAOL. MORE SCREAMING.AEDION!!! LYSANDRA!!! MANON!!! AROBYNN!!!!!!!!!I had about twelve heart attacks while reading this book. IT WAS AWESOME.
BRB CRYING FOREVER. This book was a wild ride! While I loved this book, I did feel like the characterization within this book was a bit off. That's the main reason I didn't give this 5 stars. Other than that I was thoroughly happy with what went down in this story, even if certain things didn't go the way I wanted them to. GIVE ME BOOK 5 NOW. K THANKS.
SO GOOD. SO FREAKING GOOD.NOT JUST GOOD BUT GREAT.GAHHHHHHHHHP.E.R.F.E.C.T.I.O.NI read Queen of Shadows back in June but could not say anything about it (not even that I had it!). But now I can and let me tell you, Sarah has done it again! I LOVED QoS, so beautiful, bloody and outstanding. OH and...ROWAN...SWOON!!! 5/5 stars of course!
YOU FREAKING PERFECT PIECE OF LITERATURE.DEFINITELY THE BEST BOOK I HAVE READ SO FAR IN MY LIFE.
QUEEN OF SHADOWS WAS AMAZING. I LOVED IT. CAN NOT WAIT FOR THE NEXT ONE HERE'S MY EXTREMELY FANGIRLY BOOKTALK: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lSSKo... LET'S TALK ABOUT IT MORE PLEASE
Oh my god. Perfection.
In Heir of Fire, I had a few issues with the various POV switches, but I thought the transitions were smoother in Queen of Shadows, and I actually like Manon and her story a bit more in this book.
Aelin even says something to the effect of "Even though I said I'd always pick you, I didn't mean I'd actually always pick you." I feel like books 1 and 2 were so insignificance and fake now in regards to the romance.
Overall the amazing plot, squad assemblage, and writing make this book wonderful while the romance and earlier portrayal of the characters sorely disappointed and confused me.Update 5/22/15Queen of Shadows is 672 pages long.
“But she was her own champion now.”  Brutal and magnificent. A force of nature. How else can I describe a book about witches, demons and dark lords, fae queens and warriors, possessed princes, rebels and whores?Queen of Shadows deserves more than 5 stars. Queen of Shadows rattles the stars.  “She was a whirling cloud of death, a queen of shadows, and these men were already carrion.”  The fire-breathing bitch-queen is back. Ready to gather her court, claim her throne and wreck havoc to those wh
How else can I describe a book about witches, demons and dark lords, fae queens and warriors, possessed princes, rebels and whores?Queen of Shadows deserves more than 5 stars.
Every time Dorian was in pain, my heart broke.
Every time a story full of pain was revealed, my heart broke.But then Aedion would say something funny and I would be like 
Ahoy mates, I'm on board!BUT, I didn't like the way Sarah handled the Chaol/Celaena relationship.
They all have changed, him and Celaena (and Dorian for that matter), they're not the people we met in the first book, and that's expected.
Without it, a kingdom is nothing, and will be forgotten by time.”If you read any of my updates I’m sure you’ll already know how I feel about this book.
I’m sure he can’t even remember the world with magic and it’s no surprise he’s afraid of it.
I wouldn’t have sworn the oath to you if I didn’t think you could.”I like Rowan but despite him becoming the main love interest for Aelin I still don’t love him as much as I love Dorian or Aedion.
01/28/16 Everyone is lowering their 2-stars rating to one star, and tbh I completely agree, this is not worth two stars.***times I broke down and cried: 5times I screamed and cussed at the book: 38fucks I give about this series right now: 0 Let’s start this review a bit different.
He is definitely flawed, but who is not.So the way Sarah handled his character in QOS just broke my heart.
This was not Chaol, not the guy who was ready to give up everything he worked for and ever believed in to send the girl he loves away to keep her safe.This was just a twisted version of him and honestly, I can’t believe Sarah actually came up with this.
This one takes a close 2nd to Crown of Midnight as my favourite in the series. So so SO good!
I'm removing my review and writing a new one, because since I've started this reread, BOY have my feelings changed!
There are so many pages in this book and I don't feel they were necessary, also, I wanted to punch everyone.Another thing that I hated was what SJM did to my babies: CHAOL AND DORIAN.
SHIPS I'M NOT ON BOARD:- Rowan/Aelin: I think they can convince me, but right now I'm a little icky towards them.- Chaol/Nesryn: I like Nesryn as a character, but SJM just put her in the book so Chaol could have a new couple, and it felt forced.MY NEW SHIPS:- Aedeon/Lysandra: YES, I love them!!!
Each characters struggle in this book, this series, is poignant and relevant and relatable and the way all of their storylines have beautifully intertwined is pure magic.
The friendships formed warm my heart.
Sarah J Maas has created pure magic.
My heart is so full and content right now.
These books have me feeling all kinds of ways and I'm always drowning in emotions once I'm finished.
I'm forever grateful to Sarah J Maas for creating these books and crafting such an epic story!
I haven't fangirled this hard about an author or a book series since Potter.
Coherent much.- Can I say that the thing about Aelin and Celaena being two separate persons feels like a joke?
I remember after reading HoF seeing so many people say that Chaol was behaving like a terrible person and that he couldn't accept Celaena because he didn't love her and things like that.
I don't care if you love Rowan, if you want him to end with Aelin, if you write it in a good, realistic way, I'll be fine with it, but you just don't destroy all the characters because you feel like it.
"Do you think monsters are born or made?"  I just... I just... I can't... I just don't know what to say. Celaena is coming for everything they said she couldn't have. Game of Thrones meets Batman. That's what the Throne of Glass series is... and yes it's as epic as that sounds. Sarah J. does it again. Another stunning build of a book. This review is going to be so hard to write. I want to gush. I want to scream. I want to rage about this book, but can't because *sigh* spoilers. As much as I wan
I will still write my feelings about it and highlight a few moments I loved, but I just wanted to give warning this review WONT have spoilers in it...
There are a lot of characters introduced and finally produced in this book that I unfortunately wont be able to touch base on in this review.
God, I love him in this book (If you've read QOS you probably read that sentence and thought I was insane but I don't care).
There is one certain witch in particular that I can't wait to see in the next book.I know I talked a lot about the characters and not so much about the plot.
UPDATE (08/14/15): QUEEN OF SHADOWS IS HALF A MONTH AWAY, I REPEAT, QUEEN OF SHADOWS IS HALF A MONTH AWAY!!!!!!!!!UPDATE (1/23/15): Aaaand we can finally stop calling it Throne of Glass 4 and start calling itWant to be updated on everything Throne of Glass?Visit the Throne of Glass fansite!It's not a trilogy?! EVEN BETTER Now for the long, long, long wait:[paces around the room][sits down][checks watch][stands up][paces around the room]I JUST NEED MORE OF ROWAN OKAY.
I am so impressed with this series. She was fire, and light, and ash, and embers. She was Aelin Fireheart, and she bowed for no one and nothing, save the crown that was hers by blood and survival and triumph. I honestly cannot remember the last time when a series was so consistently good. It's the fourth book and yet the story and the characters feel as fresh as the first. Aelin Galathynius has returned and her life as Celaena Sardothien is a part of the past - or so she thought. Aelin must spen
I honestly cannot remember the last time when a series was so consistently good.
Aelin must spend a few more weeks as Celaena the Assassin before she can take up the mantle as the Queen of Terrasen - or as others call her: 
I absolutely adored this book - the personal growth from Aelin and the other characters really cinched this novel for me.
I still don't know fully how much they will play a part in the series but every time I read their side, I'm completely enraptured.
can i give this one million stars.\pins[gjanbsf;igu[iUWRBNG[aiounfwdpvaoiunsfpgiubs[FUVBthe ending]odifnailsjfbgas;ifubg;iausbnfg[iousnDG[OUABNFOIUASNDGTHE CLOCK TOWERLSIDUFGpsbnr[fiuns[DIUGNAIUGNpsiungpaisubgTHE FIREEEEEE
Re-read on audio. Still awesome and still loving the narrator of the books ❤MIND BLOWNSooooooooooooo, I loved this book! I was a little iffy there because I wasn't sure if Rowan was going to be in it but it's all good :-) Celaena/Aelin has returned to Rifthold. She's trying to sneak in undercover. She has a little bit of a different look for a bit. A little bit of hair dye goes a long way, but most people knows who she is. She is back to save her cousin and do what she needs to do to get rid of
I fell in love with Lysandra in this book, I love what she truly is and when Aelin does what she does to change a few things, it is on with all of the "special" people :) That's all I can say...you know, the spoiler thing!
Well, ya know, there is a little bit more evil in their world so it's best if some of them hook up and get it done.
It's certainly not over, you just know there is going to be more to do with the way the book ended!
4.5 StarsDefinitely my favorite in the series so far...which surprised me what with how long it was and how long it took me to read it.
I usually finish books I am loving within a day or two and this one took me almost a week.
But, life happens and I haven't had as much time to dedicate to reading these days.
I just love epic fantasies involving loyalty and character development/surprises and this book was rife with examples of both.
Knowing this series is fully complete now...and and that I already have all the remaining books on my shelves ready to go.Small life victories, my friends!
FIRST YOU MAKE CELAENA LEAVE CHAOL AND NOW YOU MAKE HER LEAVE ROWAN?!
SARAH WHY WOULD YOU DO THIS TO ME, YOU SET ME UP- Making me slowly like Rowan and then just TAKING IT ALL AWAY T_TI hope this situation will be remedied- preferably through a hunger game type of setting where Chaol, Dorian, Aedion, and Rowan fight to the death for Celaena.
My rank of who I would want to win that game:1.
Rowan2.
Aedion3.
Dorian4.
Chaol (sorry Chaol, you were just not meant to be)What's your rank?Heir of Fire Review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
True this would probably take the page count well into the 1000s but I would not mind if it was a well written as the rest of the book.
The fallout from there is death with in the first half of this book.
The body count is higher in this book but there are not as many fights described.
Along with her own vengeance, she must deal with the fallout from the months she has been missing, one disadvantage is all the training she did to hone her powers in the last book, is lost as magic does not work in Adarlan.
She's Chaol's second-in-command.+ Celaena is sassy and deadly and has so many scars and is just GENERALLY AWESOME.+ The ending is intense and emotional and I nearly bawled, but mostly I was angry about how things were going.
But here are some things that really SUPER bothered me:+ Rowan and Aedion mean the best and love Celaean, their queen, a million percent...but I just about HATED how often they tried to stop her doing things.
That makes me so so sad, considering the first 2 books/novellas weren't like this.+ I really hate Celeana's attitude towards Chaol and Dorian.
By far, the best book in the series yet. Review to come.
