https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5043.The_Pillars_of_the_Earth
(I'm still a bit out of sorts after reading the deus ex machina riddled Breaking Dawn, where all the natural consequences of three books worth of actions were completely erased-ugh.) There was a natural ebb and flow of triumph and misfortunes in Pillars of the Earth.
And in the end, that was all that mattered.Pillars of the Earth will be on my favorite books list for a very long time.
Tell the truth--no one else read the book.
It was all an elaborate media/pop culture scheme to trick me into reading this book.
I'm not sure I can go on living if I have to believe that this is what my fellow man is reading these days.My utter disdain for the book comes from many a source:A) It's 900 pages.
We might not be able to build the church.--Crafty Phillip overcomes the complication.--Insert licentious sex scene.--Building a church, building a church, building a church .
We might not be able to build the church.--Crafty Phillip overcomes the complication.--Now insert gratuitous sex scene.Lather.
“The most expensive part of building is the mistakes.” Look, it's difficult to explain exactly why I liked this book. Seriously, if you take a look at the blurb, note the 973 pages, and the fact it's a very long story about building a cathedral in Medieval England, you might think I've been smoking something. But for me - and I'm assuming for a large number of other readers - it was so damn compelling.I'm going to get the crap out of the way first - if you are sensitive to scenes of rape, DO NO
Seriously, if you take a look at the blurb, note the 973 pages, and the fact it's a very long story about building a cathedral in Medieval England, you might think I've been smoking something.
But for me - and I'm assuming for a large number of other readers - it was so damn compelling.I'm going to get the crap out of the way first - if you are sensitive to scenes of rape, DO NOT READ THIS BOOK.
Just when it looks like Philip is going to succeed, some more shit happens.
When I was about 500 pages in, he saw how miserable I was and asked why I didn't just stop reading it, but at that point, I was invested in it; I had spent all that time getting that far, that I needed to finish it, and I couldn't wait to come to the end.
And most importantly, it needed someone who understood when the story had been told; that while there will always be other stories to tell, that each book has its own natural end, and that these stories may not belong in this book.Ken Follett may be a bestselling author of suspense novels (and even historical fiction such as Pillars of the Earth and World without End), but he is no writer of epics.
Yes, yes I did!I cannot say enough about this book, the story, the writing, the characters, etc.
If someone had said to me, “Here is a 1000 page book about the building of a cathedral 1000 years ago in England” I probably would have fallen asleep before the end of their sentence.
But, do not judge a book by its description – it is a 1000 page book about the building of a cathedral, but Follett does an amazing job of crafting a historical fiction story around it that will keep you engaged from page one until the very end.With 1000 pages, there has to be filler, right?
Beyond that there seemed to be three characters in the book: Bad guy, good guy, and good victimized-yet-able-to -overcome girl.What got me most was: Ken Follett seemed so proud of his historical research that he mentions every 40 pages, "_____ took out his/her eating knife" Really, they didn't have forks, how is constantly reminding the audience of this fact important to the story?
One fact does not a novel make (unless it's a really clever fact.) The bad characters keeping the amazing building from completion felt like a fountainhead rip-off, but that might just be me.On the positive (?) side the book is an extremely easy read, I might have enjoyed it more were I laying in the sun half drunk on something sweet and rum-filled.
”He was mesmerized by the challenge of making soft, round shapes out of hard rock.
The stone had a will of its own, and if he tried to make it do something it did not want to do, it would fight him, and his chisel would slip, or dig in too deeply, spoiling the shapes.
But once he had got to know the lump of rock in front of him he could transform it.” There are so many memorable characters populating this epic novel that I would be hard pressed to even say who is the main character of this novel
The nobles certainly do not want to work for a woman, but I think the issue that is even bigger is that Maude is very sure of herself, even one might say imperial.
William is but a brutish thug, a tool of his demented, greedy mother and then later a weapon of evil for an archbishop named Waleran Bigod (great name, eh?), who wishes to obtain more and more power at the cost of everyone else.
He makes enemies in lofty places, including the aforementioned Archbishop Waleran Bigod, who at every turn tries his level best to destroy Philip and his dreams of a cathedral.
This book was so completely fantastic that I almost forgot the outside world existed when I was reading it.
These are truly some of the most human characters I‘ve ever read about; these people could have existed.This is no less true for the villains of the book, William Hamleigh in particular is characterised superbly.
By contrasting these two characters Follet demonstrates how the church has the power to do great good and also great evil.
This, for me, is quite a strong message to take from the book because it shows us the dividing nature of man, of life, of good and evil; it shows us that all things can be benevolent or terrible.
It was good, but I much preferred "World Without End."Follett creates such a remarkable world full of characters you love and you hate.
And when I think about what I would have done if I lived in that time period...
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
First the book review goes on Goodreads, and then I send it on over to my WordPress blog at https://thisismytruthnow.com, where you'll also find TV & Film reviews, the revealing and introspective 365 Daily Challenge and lots of blogging about places I've visited all over the world.
Many thanks to their original creators.
Examples and anyone may correct me if I'm mistaken as I am not a history major: * Aliena is frequently described as having long, curling loose flowing hair.
* After the attack on the castle, and the imprisonment of their father Aliena and Richard are allowed to live alone in the castle with only the steward?
All I can say is that if you want to read a very well written and researched book on this period, please see Sharon Kay Penman's When Christ and His Saints Slept and Time and Chance (Ballantine Reader's Circle).
And lets not forget Jack, Aliena, Richard, Waleran, that bastard William Hamleigh, or any of the many other characters.Ken Follett was primarily known as a thriller writer before Pillars and it shows.
Since Follett is a thriller writer, he tended to keep things to the point for the most part, though I thought he was ignoring Elmore Leonard's rule about not writing the parts people skip a few times.I don't really want to say much about the plot for fear of spoiling anything.
Agnes' body wasn't even cold yet.- Lots of rape in the 1100's- Since Kingsbridge is fictitious, does that make Pillars of the Earth historical fantasy?- I really hate William Hamleigh.
A massive tome with a spine thicker than Arnold Schwartzenegger’s forearm, Pillars looks intimidating enough to make even the most avid readers wary; its 973 pages are densely packed with unforgiving walls of 8-point text with nary a line break in sight.
Things start off on a sour note as we must bear witness to a painful prologue in which Follett tries to establish some sort of basis for an intersection that we are led to believe is soon to come – only to abandon this plotline for so long that we’ve forgotten what the point of the book is by the time it comes around again.
A tapestry of medieval cathedrals centered around an epic drama and some would term it melodrama but that's open to debate. Ken Follet actually wanted to write this book years before it was published. But his agent told him to build up his base of fans by writing several more thrillers. His EYE OF THE NEEDLE pushed him up to the best seller list. At a later point, after writing those novels and studying medieval cathedral architecture, Follet got to write his 900 page novel centering around the
At a later point, after writing those novels and studying medieval cathedral architecture, Follet got to write his 900 page novel centering around the British dispute of the crown between Queen Maude and King Stephen; these were the contestants who preceded Henry II, who is best known for his colorful History with Eleanor of Aquitaine, Richard the Lion Hearted and the gray King John.
Story centers around several commoner types, with a few exceptions, whose lives intertwine in the eventual struggle to build a glorious cathedral.
STORY/PLOTTING: A minus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: A minus to A; SETTING/EPIC SCOPE: A minus; HISTORICAL FLAVOR/ACCURACIES: B plus to A minus; OVERALL GRADE: A minus; WHEN READ: 2006 (second reading)
The thing is, even with all the re-marrying and such, there are so many evolving inter-relationships between these main characters as the struggle for political power unfolds, and of course everybody grows up, has children, etc - that EVERYTHING seems to happen to this small group of people.
There's also quite a bit of focus on the reason for, and the means to, building cathedrals - Follett muses in his Foreward that one of the things he never could understand is why people in such destitute times would have put so much energy into buildings of such scale, and this book addresses that.
How does one review a book that one cannot even describe?So many times after gushing about how good Pillars was, people ask me, What’s it about?And I, swirling in the happy aftermath of a mind so blown away that it’s still traveling near the speed of light, struggle to gather what’s left of analytical thinking and dumbly blurt, “Um, it’s about building this cathedral…”Way to not to sell a book.I still have trouble really describing Pillars in a way that satisfies.
It’s about love, hate, sacrifice, duty, honor, sorrow, ambition, dreams… It’s about cold, hard life in the Middle Ages during decades of civil unrest where both good and bad people, downtrodden and as hungry as they are, still dream and compete and seek a sense of accomplishment in their lives.
Read The Pillars of the Earth by Ken Follett.
By the time you're done reading this huge book you will feel as if you've spent the better part of your life hoisting brick and laying mortar.
Follett obviously did a lot of research in order to construct this mammoth book.
It's a strange sort of romance that'll sweep up most readers...sweep them up like a broom down a bowling alley lane.
After writing previous money-making books for his publisher on the promise that he would be allowed to create his baby, this behemoth known as The Pillars of the Earth was that baby, and it's a tubber!
It is a ''showstopper'' book not only in the Historical Fiction genre, but in Literature in general.
Still, for an obsessed reader of historical novels like yours trully, it can become the standard by which all other historical sagas are measured.
However, here we have good characters with whom we agonize over their fates, evil characters whom we hate with passion, and characters that stand in a gray area, driving the story forward.
Aliena is one of the best female protagonists in Literature, and Waleran with William Hamleigh fight for the title of the ''best villain'' in the genre.
The TV-series adaptation was really good, with a plethora of excellent casting choices.
It’s far worse than any sin.”Since there is pretty much nothing I didn't like about this book, and since the only reason why the fifth star is missing is that Medieval history isn't really my thing and so I loved the Century trilogy far too much more in comparison with The Pillars of the Earth to give the latter the same rating as the former, in this review I will only be trying to explain you why I find Ken Follett's stories simply, utterly irrestistible.
When you read Follett's historical novels, just as when you enter a cathedral, you feel humbled.
An absolutely amazing reading experience.
I listened to the audio version of this book, which means just over 40 hours of content, and when it was finished, I actually believed it should have been LONGER.
With as much as I had heard about this book, I went into it with very high expectations and they were absolutely met (if not exceeded).
I can't recommend this book highly enough.
I also need to say that the narrator, John Lee, did another amazing job.
Coincidentally, he was also the narrator on the only other 40+ hour audio book I ever listened to, Pandora's Star by Peter F.
HIGHEST POSSIBLE RECOMMENDATION!!!!
Ken Follett leaves his comfort zone with this epic tome, which highlights the development and building of a massive cathedral in Kingsbridge, a rural English community.
The story continues with the evolution of Kingsbridge as a local hub, creating much needed markets and economic fluctuation in order to sustain the costly building that is being erected.
Phillip and Tom remain the central characters whose ideas prove to be stalwart themes throughout, but the reader is graced with the likes of Alfred and Jack, offspring (literal and through marriage) of Tom, who seek to continue the build for as long as it will take.
Sunt mai multe personaje centrale, toate cu povesti interesante, unite de incercarea de a construi o catedrala de proportii mari intr-o staretie nu prea mare si nici de importanta majora in lumea catolica.E foarte interesant sa aflii cum traiau atunci oameni, tot pachetul socio-economic de atunci.
Intri intr-o lume primitiva si straina noua, iar talentul incontestabil al autorului de a descrie peronajele, locurile, atmosfera si chiar mirosurile te ajuta sa vezi totul clar ca si cum esti acolo.Recomand tuturor persoanelor peste 18 ani indiferent de genul literal pe care il preferati, e o carte ce trebuie citita, are de toate.
This epic novel draws the reader into the 12th century story filled with tragedy, romance, success, betrayal and revenge.
Through these characters we live vicariously.
The description is so well written that the reader feels they are in the story, whether in Kingsbridge, England building a Gothic cathedral or in Saint-Denis (France) studying cathedral architecture.
The plot and subplots weave through the building of Kingsbridge cathedral and the many character lives it touches.For the review of the storyline, I point you to fellow reviewers, all excellent reviews.
I will be reading the next two books in this trilogy.
I highly recommend this book.
A friend recommended this book.
He loves his wife but lusts for the witch, then goes back to focusing on his lesions.As the family nears starvation, the wife goes into labor in the gelid forest and dies in childbirth.
The witch-babe comes upon the mason for a brief prurient-interest sex scene.
The baby is then rescued by monks who feed it by dipping a cloth into goat milk and letting the lad suckle.
This book is 124,000 pages long and I am on page 98.
Not a good time to whip out "Angry Birds" 2) Sex scene with concupiscent witch actually was sexy.
Let's just get that out of the way so there is no confusion later on.Ken Follett describes a gloomy, dismal, nearly barbaric society whose citizens' greatest concerns seem to be their egos and their lust for power and control.
He uses the building of the great European cathedrals as the impetus for his story; the magnificent structures were made possible through trickery, lies, greed, criminal acts and selfish ambition.
He mentioned eating with a knife almost as frequently as the tunics his characters wore (Setting it apart from modern day.
Toward the end of this 1000 page book I noticed the ad for the equally non-descript titled SEQUEL released 17 years after Pillars.
Is this why Follett looks so smug on the back cover w/his black turtleneck?Maybe in the sequel he'll explain why he couldn't find room in the story for Martha after age 6.
She was my favorite character and she got maybe 5 sentences of mention after page 300.
When the author got writer's block he must have pulled out some custom Magic 8 Ball with two possible responses: A) Rape or B) Further uncertainty regarding the King of EnglandThe result of that Magic 8 Ball shaking is Pillars of the Earth.
I loved the twists and turns of this novel and as historical fiction goes this is among the best I have read as the research is excellent.Set in 12th-century England, the narrative concerns the building of a cathedral in the fictional town of Kingsbridge.
I never thought I would read a 900 page novel on the building of a cathedral but the plot is so compelling as it spans 40 years of social and political upheaval and we see how church politics affect the progress of the cathedral and the fortunes of the protagonists.
Ken Follett has written a novel that entertains and presents an amazing sense of time and place.
It's hard to bring myself to read some of the scenes that I didn't remember until I came to them (it seems that the medieval world was a rapist's paradise).The actual cathedral building bits were fascinating to me, though if I had to take a test on the jargon of cathedral creation I'd fail.
It's a highly enjoyable read for people who like history, and it's got a lot of interesting characters doing interesting things (although that stupid prior made me itch, what a maroon as Bugs Bunny used to say).
I think that because the story was told from the point of view of many characters (5 or 6, I think), the author was able to show so much more of what was going on in many different places at the same time.
But at the same time, I'm sad for it to end because I'm going to miss the characters.I still have the same complaint that the story is a bit soap opera-y and some elements of the story seem modernized from what it was probably like in 12th century England.
As long as this book is, I wished it was longer.This novel transports you directly to 12th century England.
Traveling is done on horseback or on foot, traversing muddy roads, not to mention the forests filled with thieves.This story follows the lives of dozens of richly-developed and colorful characters (some of them good, some of them evil) for the duration of 50 years.
One of these characters is Tom Builder.
Tom's been charged with the building of a massive cathedral in the fictional town of Kingsbridge, England.
Tom has worked on churches before, but never as the master builder, never as the one in charge.
I think you can learn a lot about a person by reading their favorite books.
That being said, the plot was great but the antagonist got boring in the last third of the book.
I liked the plot except for the antagonist waring on my patience.
I do like complex plots such as this one...
The bad guy comes in terrorizes the good people and frustrates the building of the cathedral.
then the good people rebuild and make a little progress.
I also liked how the book covered decades of time...
I haven't read many books that do that.
