https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/876916.Biggles_Fails_to_Return
A good old-fashioned commando raid19 July 2015 Sadly this is going to be one of the last Biggles books that I read for a while, namely because I have finished reading all of the ones that I borrowed off of my Dad and the rest of them happen to be 700kms away in his study. Maybe I'll grab some more the next time I am over there, but considering the number of books that are on my shelf:I don't think I am going to be scrounging for reading material any time soon (though spacing some of the really h
I have also noticed that this book was written during World War II, though I suspect that the collection that I read (The Biggles Omnibus) was compiled afterwards because Johns has a little blurb where he talks about how there were commando operations (such as when Mussolini was rescued by the Germans after being captured by Italian revolutionaries) that would make you never want to watch a spy thrillers, or adventure movies, again simply because the truth is actually much exciting than fiction.
The other funny thing was how Johns talked about the Italians going for a swim in the harbour, which is something else that I saw when I was over there.
Back to boyhood for a bit of Biggles ...
and the books are just as exciting today as they were then.By the very title of this one, the reader knows that Biggles is not going to appear straight away.
However, it is not until page 163 that our hero makes his appearance.
Exciting, gripping, great fun and everything else one would expect from a Biggles' story.
The answers take them on a daring rescue mission in and around Monaco around the time of its occupation by the Italian army.Although it predates his works by 9 or 10 years, the scenes in the mountains above the principality foreshadow Marcel Pagnol's descriptions of life in the arid collines of Provence.
Little details of the local characters' lives under the growing oppression of fascist domination and wartime scarcity bring home that time and remind us Brits that continental types really bore the brunt of the conflict.
Hardly a victory for feminism, but strong women nonetheless, within the context of genre and period.
B24I really like this Biggles-book. It is one of the few where Biggles didn't play the main role.It is equally shared between Algy, Ginger and Bertie.Was it of the modest attempt to include some romance? Perhaps.What surprised me was the outspoken voice of the Monegasks against the French, and Sicilian against Italian, and a common dislike against fascist regime.
Algy, Ginger and Bertie set off to look for him, but without the boss to keep them in line they soon go off the rails, strumming guitars, swilling wine and dallying, believe it or not, with women.
There are the usual implausible coincidences, impossibly lucky escapes and a positive Olympus of deorum ex machina, but it also contains affectionate and knowledgeable descriptions of Monaco and the surrounding Alpes Maritimes (Johns was always at his best as a writer when describing scenery, particularly desolate places) and yes, there are actually women participating in the story as characters.
This group includes Biggles, (He has been found) the Princess Marietta Loretto de Palma who Biggles was sent to rescue and who helped Biggles recover from a bullet wound, a man named Mario, (the princesses assistant) Algy, Ginger and Bertie who are all Air detectives and friends with Biggles and some new (not so important) friends.
What got me excited was when Biggles and Ginger stole a plane at the wharf of Monaco in France and picked up the rest of the group.
Very similar to many Biggles books but not boring!
Biggles, Algy, Bertie and Ginger will escape somehow.
The special thing with this book is that it's missing Biggles. Or Biggles is missing. It starts by Algy being assigned the WWII RAF squadron Biggles is running and him going to London to figure out what has happened to Biggles. Then the story brings us to southern Europe in a chase for Biggles, together with Algy, Ginger and Bertie (there has to be three).This story is also a bit different in that it contains women. And W. E. Johns doesn't seem to know anything about that half of humanity. He should not even try.
A very good one.
Another great Biggles book! Always loved and still love to read these!
