https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13330761-the-dog-stars
making sure i don't drop any naughty words?well, i can't five-star this book, so i guess i am writing this for nothing, and it might get deleted in the "every book is a winner" mentality of your book-worldview.but i am gonna write it anyway, in the hopes that goodreads.com can still be the place it should be - where people can have opinions about books that are about books, and not as a means to move product.this book is fine.fine is not a bad thing, amazon.for me, who has read a lot of post-apoc fiction, it just seems very familiar.

Hig lives in an old airplane hangar and Bangley lives in a house up on the hill with a good view of “the kill zone”.
They even leave an old dumpster out front to provide the attackers with a place to hide which actually just bunches them up so Bangley can pick them off like yellow ducks at a county fair.

If you did not like THE ROAD, you're still going to like THE DOG STARS.Yes, Heller's book is reminiscent of McCarthy's, but you don't have to be a dystopia devotee to appreciate it.
But at other times, like when protagonist Hig takes to the mountain streams with his faithful dog, Jasper (yes, there's a dog book hidden in here -- at least for 100 pp.
Still, the fragmented delivery fits Hig's personality nicely and gives Heller a chance to show his talents in creating voice.The greatest treat of all, though, is the writing.
A little scary to begin a book with such high expectations, but I really feel good about this one.
And I know it will stay with me for a long time.The author is a poet, a pilot, an outdoor adventure writer, and a cat owner.
Now he is an outstanding fiction writer as well.My hubby & son are both wanting to read it next.
Son loves good writing, post-apocalyptic novels, and calls our dog Jasper (her name is Jazzie, he has called her Jasper for almost 12 years now).
I sobbed.Glen Duncan says it well on the dust jacket: "Make time and space for this savage, tender, brilliant book." Good advice.
"I knew Bangley well enough that he'd had enough killing in one night not to fuck with my dog".
But......why kill anyone is what I kept thinking?
Even in a post apocalyptic world?
......Yes, I had the conversation with Paul - he tried to explain to me why, but I still feel angry.I HAVE A DIFFERENT MIND SET than automatically killing off people.
Lots of profanity...Lots of stream-of-thoughts...A man and his dog....Dog dies.
Nut gun man.
Airplane, fishing, cooking, a love story.
Colorado.I have a LOVE/HATE relationship with this book -- but couldn't put it down!!!!!DISCUSSION BOOK.....THINKING BOOK....Expect to feel off balance!
The Dog Stars was recommended to me for that very reason but the first thing I noticed when I picked it up was that the cover resembled one of my favorite books, The Sorrows of Young Mike (also by a Colorado author).
My favorite part was when he describes a man who spent the last years of his life organizing the slides that tell the story of his life.
It was an introspective description of how someone relives their life and I think there is some correlation to the reason people write.
The next stop in my end-of-the-world reading marathon was The Dog Stars, the 2012 debut novel by Peter Heller, an author based in Denver.
Haunted by the voice on the radio, Hig decides to mount an investigation, much to Bangley's displeasure.In an effort to document the end of the world as if a mariner were scribbling notes in a ship's log with a dull pencil, The Dog Stars is written in a haltering shorthand that if described to me, I probably would've dismissed as being too obscure, too pretentious for my taste.
But what he encounters and what he must face—in the people he meets, and in himself—is both better and worse than anything he could have hoped for.Narrated by a man who is part warrior and part dreamer, a hunter with a great shot and a heart that refuses to harden, The Dog Stars is both savagely funny and achingly sad, a breathtaking story about what it means to be human.My Review: I've tried and I've tried to think of a nice way to say that I don't like Iowa Writer's Workshop stuff because it's always Very Writerly.
(Thank goodness for a book that doesn't spend all it's time telling me how massively smart the main characters are while they continue to do progressively dumber things...I'm looking at you Insurgent).
The more I think about it, what I really liked was how stripped down it is.
There is so little left for Hig to hold on to, and I like how the text reflects his bare existence.
I like when a book has the ability to haunt you long after you've finished it.
You are negotiating with your own death.The reviews I've read are enamored with the Mad Max/The Road comparisons with the novel's hopeful endcap to the apocalypse.
But there isn't much follow through, and there's even less by the admirers of the book.I'm wondering if Heller is trying to make a commentary on how we are living today—not about the future or some idealized humanity.Hig's partner Bangley and another character he meets after he takes his fool's flight west are both ex-special forces, hardened men who do not make the fine distinctions that will get Hig killed.
I did like the message and concept but I believe that the author didn't use their full potential, he focused too much on fishing and flying and old Cessna and at times it wasn't even so much a post-apocalyptic novel about fishing, but a self-help guide titled: "The World Ended - What To Do Now?"Kinga: Personally, I do like books about fishing, roaming the forests and some general unhurried meditating, although you might be right that for the first 80 pages the narrator was ordered to wander about while the author was just starting to figure out the plot.Basia: My feelings exactly.
Sure this has been done many times before, and it is a favorite genre of mine, but in this book The Dog Stars by Peter Heller, we are treated to a very unique point of view.
The only thing that keeps him going every day is his love to fly his plane and his best old pal, his best friend, his companion, his dog Jasper.
There is a great deal in the first part of this book that which has been done before, but Heller finds a way to add his own unique twist and color to make it work.
I did have an issue with the part where after Hig finds a couple of other people and after he convinces them not to kill him and then plans to fly them out (view spoiler)[, he does all this math to calculate how much weight he can safely carry on take off, figures out he would have to leave the man and take the woman...but barely.
(hide spoiler)].......so that was kind of rediculus.But the best part of the book is the relationship between Hig and his dog Jasper.
I was so removed from the plight of the character in this book - (view spoiler)[I didn't even cry when the dog died.
Perhaps it has to do with the main character's reason for living, and the fact that I couldn't really figure out what that was after (see spoiler).
He seems to live to fly.So, to recap...this book pales in comparison with, well, you know - BUT - two saving graces: I did enjoy the relationship between Hig and his neighbor, Bangley.
The strength in this tale lies in Heller’s portrayal of grief stricken Hig, who is continually balancing his lyrical introspections on finding meaning in his narrowed life and his cherishing of the beauty that remains.Hig has been living a lonely life for nine years after an epidemic flu killed off most of humanity.
Does not want to communicate what the death and the beauty do to each other inside him.The stars in the book are a perpetual reminder of how small humans are in the scheme of things, as in this example:Now we walk fast in the dark.
Shame because there are lots of good things in this novel.
Hig is like a man advertising himself on a dating site.
He loves fishing and hunting except for the part where he has to end a life.
It began to feel like Heller was imagining Hig from the comfort of an armchair, not immersed in a world where every stranger is a deranged serial killer.
Hig finds Eden and Eve. And cue the hyper flowery prose.
For me the parts that worked best were Hig's relationship with the natural world and his uncomfortable but life-preserving partnership with Bangley and his arsenal of weaponry.
That's exactly what got me into reading Mr. Penumbra's 24-Hour Bookstore - which I didn't think was all that good - but this one appealed to my tastes: I enjoy post-apocalyptic fiction, and thought that it could be a new and interesting addition to the genre which is now mostly populated by novels for young adults.
The ending itself I thought was inconsequential and out of the left field; it certainly did not cement the novel in my memory.The Dog Stars is the author's debut, and reads like a short story or a novella stretched into a novel; while there are parts of it which I enjoyed I doubt I'll think of it in a year or two, and doubt that it'll enter the dystopian canon.
In that book, Captain Towers hears a faint Morse code signal, transmitting from far away, and heads off on a tour of a ruined world, seeking life.I suspect that Peter Heller is also familiar with On The Beach.
Hig will eventually try to track down a static-broken voice he heard on the radio years ago in much the same way that Captain Towers follows the enigmatic Morse code signal.
And like Captain Towers, he will find comfort in surprising places.Much of this book is surprisingly heartbreaking in its beauty.
Not so much talked, but of sound body - and of mind, you be the judge.
The ones who are left are mostly Not Nice, why we live here on the plain, why I patrol every day.His name is Hig and he settles to the telling appropriately, like a hound circling and circling the rug before his bones drop to rest.
His tale is a sketchy one.
Experience provides him with the requisite awareness for survival, and the skills to maintain.
Theirs is a prickly co-habitation, yet it serves to produce a string of tomorrows and is respected for that.Heller's dystopian tale is honest and intelligent.
Eh. I had a hard time getting past the writing style.
Considering that the narrator mentioned several times how much he enjoyed poetry and would have liked to have been an English teacher, I think that the writing style Heller chose was not particularly effective.
As far as the plot -- I found the bleak, miserable post-apocalyptic future painted by Heller to be completely pointless.
All the characters might as well go ahead and kill themselves at the end of book and save the reader the time of the pointless love story.
In the sub-genre of post-apocalyptic fiction the reader is left with a narrative mostly bleak, bare-boned, and animalistic; "happy endings" or "humanity" are typically cast aside for a much more gritty tale of survival, with the concept of "survival" used liberally as it seems more just dumb luck that the protagonist makes it to the end of his or her ordeal.
Heller presents the story from Hig's POV, but never completely embraces a stream of conscious form of diction; he settles for some amalgamation of SoC and traditional third-person writing styles.
I put a bunch of books on hold at the library and The Dog Stars came in first.
I feel like it was fate for me to read.The Dog Stars has now become one of my favorite books of all time.
The writing style resonated with me right away, so from the first few words I was hooked.
But for me, it brought an intimacy to the main character - Hig - and his coping with loss and survival.
ESPECIALLY when it comes to books or movies that feature dogs.
Reading this book stirred up the memories, the good and the bad, that comes with loving someone.
I heard a lot of good things about this book and picked it up from the library this week all without knowing what it was about, or that it has been compared to McCarthy's The Road or anything like that.
This book did exactly that.There is a sort of terse style to the prose especially the dialogue that takes a few pages of acclimating to and once you do you realize it is perfect for the story and for the world the characters find themselves living in.
While never quite as bleak as The Road I found it far more touching, more human, than McCarthy's world.
This is definitely a book I would recommend...
My husband didn’t care for this novel much but I really enjoyed it. Hig’s life in the post-apocalyptic America was always sensually vivid to me. I loved the descriptions of him flying his Cessna aircraft, his relationship with his dog, the tension of his fights with murderous intruders, the thorny relationship with his macho misanthropic neighbour. Granted the fragmented prose style takes a little getting used to and maybe there’s some cheese later in the novel but all in all a great read.
Se desplomó. Di un paso al frente para abrazarla. Pensé en dos árboles casi arrancados e inclinados el uno contra el otro. Pesado, repetitivo, interminable, aburrido. La constelación del Perro consiste en viajes en avioneta, descripciones de la avioneta, descripciones de paisajes, caminar, más descripciones de la avioneta, más descripciones de paisajes... Literalmente no pasa nada en todo el libro, nada. Como aspecto positivo puedo decir que tiene algunos pasajes que me encantaron, solo eso. Ah
Cuando no tienes nada que perder estás tan vacío, tan ligero que la arena en la que te conviertes se la lleva una ráfaga de viento y es tan insustancial que se eleva hasta fundirse en la tormenta de arena de las estrellas.
Y por la noche no puedes soportar oír tu respiración sin el contrapunto de otro aliento, y bajo la gran quietud se oye, como una banda sonora, el estruendo de la catarata de todas las cosas que te van arrebatando.
He crafts a well paced, interesting and fresh novel that exists in a genre that has been done to death.9 years after the combination of a super-flu virus and a deadly blood disease wiped out a good chunk of humanity, we're thrust into the lives of Hig and Bangley, two survivors.
When not wrapped up in that, Hig often takes to the sky in an old 50s airplane he has dubbed "The Beast", visiting nearby communities and bringing aid to the sick.Content to just stick to his new home and take out any intruders, Bangley lets Hig go off on these R & R trips with his dog, Jasper.

I read this. It was really good. I never want to read it again. Jerky can be made of... entities... you might not expect and apparently man's best friend will go ahead and eat it. I didn't need to know that. Cats are better, anyway. This story was dark and twisted but also beautiful. I give it 4.5 stars. But I kind of want to run it through a paper shredder so it never haunts me again.
While the background story is post apocalyptic, the story for me centered around Hig, his love for Jasper, and even his somewhat convoluted love for his one friend left in the world, someone he probably would never have befriended in the "real" world. It's about relationships, how and where we find them, and what happens when your world falls apart and the relationships you counted on to see you through until the end of time are gone. Heller's writing is frequently beautiful, poignant. I loved this book.
