https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54525.The_Triumph_of_the_Scarlet_Pimpernel
This wasn't my favorite of the Scarlet Pimpernel series. A bit repetitive, and I actually guessed Sir Percy's plan as it was unfolding, which doesn't happen in every Scarlet Pimpernel book. Still, it was an epic finale to the series. After everything that happens, it is easy to leave this book feeling like Sir Percy and Marguerite will finally have a chance to find a happy, peaceful life.
This is the fourth Pimpernel book I've read.
I love the Scarlet Pimpernel but I just couldn't get into this one.
The first 120 or so pages were difficult to get through.
The Scarlet Pimpernel doesn't appear very much.
There's also little of Marguerite and Chauvelin.
It also incorporates a lot more history than the other Pimpernel books I've read and I think the author spent too much time on it.
It got better at the end, but somehow it lacks the spark that the author is capable of.
My favorite Pimpernel books are definitely the original Scarlet Pimpernel and also Eldorado.
I think this was the final book in the series??? (not sure about that) and it was generally entertaining, although it did tread some familiar ground. I enjoyed the explanation of the brand and what it meant, and found this, the winding up of Robespierre's time as leader of the Reign of Terror, an interesting and enjoyable story. Recommended.
[These notes were made in 1984:]. I remember this one vividly from my childhood as the story where Percy is branded with an "M" on his forearm. It's marginally more implausible than some of the others (involving, as it does, a "double" in the coal-heaver Rateau), but the final confrontation with Chauvelin (Marguerite, as usual, having got herself imprisoned by him) is magnificent.
Loved Orczy's wonderful sense of adventure. I can't but marvel at this aristo author who could have been another Austen, but chose to be Dumas.
This is another in the series of books about th Scarlet Pimpernel. It is one of the best in the series about the revolution and the horrible treatment of not only the aristocracy but anyone against the leaders and many lost their heads for no reason other than they were said to be against the leader. The Pimpernel would save many from this fate of death and damage the leadership with great plots of subversion and intrigue.
(these are listed in chronological order) • The First Sir Percy (I bet The Laughing Cavalier is really good too, but I haven't read that one yet) - this book is about the Scarlet Pimpernel's father/grandfather.
• The Triumph of the Scarlet Pimpernel - The last adventure/rescueIf you want to read more than this and still not read the series I'd read the following (these are iin chronological order) • The First Sir Percy (I bet The Laughing Cavalier is really good too, but I haven't read that one yet) - this book is about the Scarlet Pimpernel's father/grandfather.
I read this book because I volunteered to do the editing for a Librivox dramatic reading of it.
Bob Neufeld's narration is consistently dramatic, and his reading of the villain Chauvelin is delightfully creepy.
Jason Mills's reading of Sir Percy Blakeney, the Scarlet Pimpernel himself, is at times playful and boyish, at times grave, and always downright charming.
Amanda Friday's interpretation of Theresia Cabarrus brings the historical character to life as she convincingly portrays her both at her most manipulative and at her most earnest.
The experience of reading this book would not have been as much fun in any other context.
Originally published on my blog here in May 2000.Though better than I Will Repay, The Triumph of the Scarlet Pimpernel is far inferior to The Scarlet Pimpernel.
The cloying romantic side of I Will Repay is omitted, yet the story is less interesting and less exciting than the first novel.
Like the other Scarlet Pimpernel novels The Triumph of the Scarlet Pimpernel presents a one sided view of revolutionary France, and here it is even less balanced than before.
Almost every sentence is tinged with contempt for the poor of Paris, and those who ruled France are demonised to such an extent that it is difficult to see why anyone would have supported their rise to power.
Orczy even set all of this against a backdrop of the days before the downfall of Robespierre – and manages to work the Pimpernel in as the instigator of the Thermidorian Reaction.One thing I especially appreciate about Orczy’s writing style is her unwillingness to let us as readers be omniscient.
We only get to see the action as it unfolds around whomever we happen to be reading about – we rarely get to have a foretaste of the Scarlet Pimpernel’s plans and plots; and never into his thoughts.
And it makes it all the more thrilling when his plans finally are revealed and executed.
It's not a favorite Pimpernel book, but I enjoyed it. It tends to drag in some places, many of the supporting characters are flat, and the ending is quite predictable, but I enjoyed the development of a strong female villainess. I also enjoyed the return of the indefatigable Sir Percy and willful Marguerite.
Fantastic. Although, I wished for a little more for the 'lesser' characters. It seemed to end too well to those who didn't deserve it then we get nothing for the good ones. But I thoroughly enjoyed it. MORE MARGOT PERCY!
I found that the first 100 pages or so really dragged. I waited and waited for the story to start moving. Once it did, I loved it. I though it was cleaver, fun, romantic and full of adventure as the original "Scarlet Pimpernel" was.
I adore The Scarlet Pimpernel, but I didn't really like this one. It took a long time to really get going and was about other people more than Percy. Also, his triumph in the end was based on luck and chance and not so much a cunning fail proof plan.
This book is so good!!!
These are such great books. So much fun!
I listened to this on librivox. Wonderful dramatic reading which made the story come alive. Also was glad for the end of the French Revolution.
Good fun, suspenseful as always, a lovely read.
Great book, almost as good as the original. It is always great entertainment to read about the adventures of Sir Percy and his league.
I found out what became of Sir Percy, y'all. He survived. And triumphed.
Robespierre is overthrown, and the Pimpernel saves his lady again.
I love the elusive pimpernel! He's like Horatio Hornblower plus the French Revolution minus the scurvy.
I love these books!
