https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118565.Mountaineering
If you are not a climber and/or are not interested in ever being a climber, then, for the love of God, do NOT buy this book.
But if you love the outdoors and backpacking into the high country or would like to improve your skills climbing rocks/ice/glaciers/whatever, then this book is fantastic.
Written by a team of professional climbers and continuously revised, this book covers every aspect of climbing, from setting up camp, choosing the right gear, advanced climbing techniques, even protecting the environment ("leave no trace").
It's essentially a textbook for learning how to climb...
the only thing missing is the mountains themselves (you have to provide those).
Highly recommended for anyone interested in mountain climbing.
The one and only bible of mountaineering.
Reading this monster requires a huge investment of time, energy, and patience.
It is not only long, but too fucking verbose and the intonation is boring.Having said that, I am extremely happy that I went though it.
I now have the theoretical basics to do about anything on the mountains on this planet.
In practice, however, it's a different story.
It takes several months to read about, but a lifetime to practice them.If you read something like this, it will motivate you to go further and work to become a mountaineer.
I learned so much from this book that I hesitate in taking off a star. (I do admit to skipping the sections on belaying, et cetera, since I've no intention of advanced climbing). The only issue I had with reading the book relates to the textbookish language that made for some tedious reading. I'm not sure how one could make it more exciting, but there you have it.The material on hiking and/or backpacking in harsh conditions was excellent, especially the chapter on traveling through snow and in avalanche territory (watch National Geographic's  The White Death).
This reference book is to mountaineering (or just camping and hiking) as Joy of Cooking is to the cooking world. A must have for any outdoorsman (or woman).
Freedom of the hills is packed with knowledge and skills that are helpful in order to survive in the mountains.
As a mountaineer I am always pushing to increase my skills and knowledge in order to climb more difficult mountains.
The book covers anything from basic knowledge of gear to more advanced skills and techniques.
This book gained the title of 'The Mountaineers Bible' for a reason.
The most helpful portion of the book for me was glacier travel and anchors.
Without the knowledge that I gained in this book I would certainly not be here to write today.
The latest edition of the classic guide to mountaineering describes fundamental climbing skills; discusses rock, snow, and ice climbing techniques; recommends clothing and equipment; gives advice on safety and first aid; and includes a new section on waterfall ice and mixed climbing. Simultaneous.
When I bought the book, I thought I was going to learn about mountaineering in great detail, and perhaps a little about camping and rock climbing.
Granted that no one book can tell you all there is to know about every aspect of climbing, this one provides a solid base-knowledge and the foundations for taking the next steps.
Mark up the pages, add notes, write down your own ideas, and read it multiple times.
I'm a first generation climber just trying to figure things out, and I'm beyond grateful for others who have gone to the time and effort to put something like this together.
What can you say about a book that is six decades in the making, evolving and written by a whole group of experts from various parts of the sport?It is simply the best text book for mountaineers.
It includes quite a bit of alpine climbing and very good basic rock climbing advice.
Lots of excellent illustrations.
I see the changes in the last 3 or so editions, but they are only modest improvements.
I happen to have editions dating back to the original "Mountaineers Handbook" (Superior 1948).
This is an excellent gift for any mountaineer that doesn't have the latest copy.
Saying that this is the "Bible of Mountaineering" is an understatement. A more accurate comparison would be to say that this is the Bible plus everything that has ever been written on religion since that time, neatly summarized into less than 600 pages.Anyone willing to put in the time will benefit from reading this book.If only textbooks were this insightful when I was in school -- 5 stars.
I am seriously reading this book for my WTC course with the Sierra Club. Just started reading about navigation & how to use a compass. Besides supporting the Sierra Club I suggest supporting the Mountaineer's Books. My sister works there & they publish great hiking, mountaineering, & camping guides.
Hands down the best book on Mountaineering I have read. The only other titles that rival it are the Mountaineers Outdoor Expert guides for the specific activity you are training for. Make sure you pick up a current edition. The first edition, published in 1961 is worth browsing for entertainment but maybe not for lifesaving tips on the mountain. I read the 7th edition.
The essential mountaineering handbook. A concise (600+ pages!) text book for the basic knowledge necessary for backpacking and climbing mountains off the grid. Reading it once is not enough. Practicing the concepts in the field will be the only way to digest the material. You will use it as a reference guide again and again, countless times.
Great reference for hiking, backpacking, mountaineering, rock climbing, and winter camping.
It is rightly considered the Bible of mountaineering and contains all the information that you would ever want to know about mountain climbing.The book is especially easy to read considering the subjects covered.
The many pictures are definitely a help and while outdoors experience is really the only way to learn mountaineering, the book is really well written.
The authors write with a clear and concise language with pictures added for extra comprehension.For any aspiring mountaineer, this is a must to read.
I am sure that no matter how many mountains I will climb, I can still return to this book and learn something new.
In the grand tradition of The Compleat Walker, this is a wide-ranging field guide to challenges and techniques for mountain travel. The book assumes that you're going climbing (and not just hiking), but if that's not you, you can skip the middle chapters on technical climbing. The chapters on equipment, shelter, navigation, snow travel, leadership, safety, and first aid were all practical and applicable, and the chapters on geology, snow, and weather were excellent introductions to the mountain environment.Recommended for anyone who spends significant time outdoors in the mountains.
It's pretty cool to have this book handy in ebook format while killing time in morraine camp at 5,000m and consulting the glacier! I wish it had more specific technical information, but I suppose that's why it lists other books as reference.
AMAZING
learned a lot. provides a good basis and support for all the nuances i'm learning in person
Required: Must read, study, and keep close if you want to be a mountaineer.
Read this back in college. Covered the mountaineering basics of the late '60, early 70's. It is still a classic.
There are quite a few dead people who wish they had read this book. Don't be one of them!
The number one mountaineering textbook, in my opinion. This book thoroughly explains almost everything a mountaineer needs to know or learn!
At the moment I'm enrolled in a wilderness guide training program in Finland, and had recommended this book to several other students; so I felt I owed it to both them and myself to give it a look with a critical eye.For the last 50 years, this book has been considered the bible of climbing and mountaineering, it covers all aspects of outdoor life, with an emphasis on mountaineering.
Even if you are an outdoorsperson of a different stripe, I'd recommend this book; its chapters on rope use, LNT, and navigation are very informative.
Actually, this begs a set of good questions: with large, non-fiction pieces, at what point am I "done" reading?
At what point can I pass judgment (i.e. give a rating)?
I guess I'll just do what feels intuitive: give it a rating when I feel I can safely judge it and say that it's "read" when I feel that I've "read" it.
Though I've only skimmed sections and read a few (of many) chapters in detail, I'm comfortable already giving this book 5 stars.
It's everything you could want in a book for mountaineering.
I'll be "currently reading" this one for a little while longer...
the bible
I'm having one of those moments when I look around and realize I'm surrounded by the products of a single source, an author, an artist, or in this case, a publisher.
The Mountaineers are a seattle based outdoors organization that, among many other things, published awesome books.
This book is a long term loan from my climbing buddy, who is obviously trying to groom me into a competent climbing partner.
The freedom of the hills is a bible of mountain survival, everything from picking out insulation layers and navigating by maps to building igloos and rescuing a partner from a glacier crevass.
I got my copy of Edition 3 in the mid 1970's, amid the "clean climbing" mountaineering revolution that swept Yosemite and other popular climbing centers.
This book was it...
Tools, technique, practical advice, the whole show, and it served me well.
My copy as well as my ice tools from that time are now looking seriously antique (possibly myself as well) but this book, and it's subsequent revisions still stay to the center of the climbers craft.
It kept me alive, and it will do the same for you (provided you read and heed it's advice).
My Dad used to say to me "Mountaineering is like backpacking with less margin for error".
Of course the reality is that there are additional skills, concepts, and so on that you absolutely need to know before hauling yourself onto a rock face or summiting glaciers.
This book contains all of that , the accumulated wealth of knowledge based on the experience of more than 40 of the world's best mountaineers.
Git ya'self several copies, sleep with one as a pillow in the hopes that the information will naturally osmose into your brain and DNA.
love mountaineering, be safe, and in your many travels 'n' respect our beautiful Planet!
I read this book cover-to-cover when I was taking a mountaineers course a long time ago. Since then I've used it as a reference book and recommended it to anyone interested in the wide variety of mountain/backcountry interests. For me it's a must have and I continue to return and re-read sections. I recommend purchasing the latest edition - my edition is earlier and some techniques, technology, etc. have evolved. If you are not sure about buying it new - check it out from the library for a test drive. I bought my edition in 94
This textbook is the Bible of basic mountaineering, written by the experienced climbers of the Seattle Mountaineers Club, a volunteer organization devoted to alpine exploration and stewardship of the pristine outdoors. This guide explains fundamentals of all types of basic alpine climbing (rock, snow, and ice), belaying, rappelling, safety, route finding, how to use equipment, how to tie knots, and rescue. (My comments are on the 5th edition, but I am certain that the 7th edition improves instruction even further.)
