https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14748.Good_in_Bed
Regardless of the time that love is shared, or held on to, the depth, the intensity, the interwoven sense of purpose can vary.
I still love some that hurt me badly – badly, but this is a different kind of love than what I share with my incredible husband (who does leave balls of socks all over the house and wonders why the dogs eat them).
Well by reading some of the reviews below, I guess I am the only one that really did NOT like this book.
I have another one Jennifer weiners books and now i am thinking " should I waste my time?
I felt she was flat and i really hated the scene where she ditched the guy in the restaurant when he said it wasn't a date.
Update: I had another book by this author & I gave it away!
I am not going to waste my time reading it when there are so many other GOOD books out there.
this book had a lot of things going on---none of it was interesting.it starts off with this ross-and-rachel-"break" situation and a (semi) harsh column about dating a 'large' woman, and then it turns into a soap opera (i expected an evil twin to appear!) it was just bad. real bad. also: she was a size 16 at 5'10 with big boobs!! lord. really. cry me a river.
I did like reading it, but at the same time, it's definitely not one I would recommend or would be on any "must read" list I would write.
The thing I think Jennifer Weiner did well was writing in a way that I did get sucked into Cannie's life and her pain.
You do just kind of want to grab her and shake her, and say, "Give it up!" But, at the same time, it's true to life in my experience.
In a way, that's what's great about fiction .
The third worst book I have ever read. I just cannot stand main characters who portray themselves as perpetually victimized, while refusing to take any responsibility for removing themselves from the victim-state. It didn't help that I felt the author intentionally 'crafted' her characters to be as pathetic as possible, then framed the story in such a way as to imply the reader has no right to condemn any of them for their decisions. Insultingly bad, even for a genre (I refuse to call this anything but 'chicklit') that has set the bar pretty low.
This was so good that when it ended I felt like I had lost a friend. I got so attached to Canny, that I just wanted to call her and chat with her about her life. I would read this book again and again...in fact, I have.
The I-don't-like-my-job, I-can't-find-a-mate, I'm-almost-30 angst books?
But the protagonist does (1) sell her screenplay, (2) become close friends with a movie star, and (3) have a handsome doctor fall in love with her (his specialty is bariatrics but he likes fat chicks!
The blurb on the front cover from the New York Times really says it all: "This season's beach-book Queen for a Day." As in read and quickly forgotten.
How is that a selling point for a book?
My first grader can sound out words and takes great interest in what I'm reading.
He didn't understand the title of the book, so I told him that it was about someone who sleeps all night and never gets up to get in their parents' bed.My husband wanted to know if it was fiction.
My major criticism about this book, however, is that the unrealistic twists and turns rival those of a Great Adventure roller coaster.
I'd leave the family dysfunction - I thought her passages about her father were touching and honest.All that said, though, I liked it enough that I'll probably read "In Her Shoes," which I believe is the sequel to this.
She always knew she was plus size but the humiliation of seeing it in a national magazine has her questioning everything in her life along with her relationship with her ex.
It was often quite humorous but also rather touching in moments when Cannie is dealing with different areas of her life.
Overall, an emotional roller coaster of a ride with the main character while dealing with being a plus sized woman in a society obsessed with weight.
I would have to read more of Weiner's work to make a statement about her work as a whole, but at the conclusion of my first Jennifer Weiner experience I'm left feeling irritated at the idea that criticism of work such as Good in Bed is construed as sexist action when really, the book is either composed of lazy writing or is such fantasy that it becomes so unlike a story that would really happen and thus, is not to some people's liking.
This book made me second guess my judgmental stance on "chick lit." It's a genre I usually avoid, mostly because I tend to be a pretentious asshole. But I really, really enjoyed this book. Weiner is smart, witty, and insightful. I laughed outloud. Much to my surprise, I couldn't put this one down.
His first article was about her and entitled "Loving a Larger Woman." Basically the first half of the book she spent mad at him about the article, then pinning over him trying to get him back, then crying and whinning that she was fat and no one would ever love her.
I just felt like slapping her and saying "Build a bridge and get over it." (BTW, that's my daughter's line) I mean, I am no skinny person, but I have never moped and whined about it like this character did.
She did some other things while pinning and whining and crying.
I'm kind of all over the place with this book.
I definitely had a love/hate relationship.Maybe it has to deal with the MC Cannie Shapiro or maybe it's how it was written...Cannie just got out of a relationship with her boyfriend.
However, Cannie doesn't like she sees her ex-boyfriends name on a magazine called Loving a Larger Woman.
Cue the eye roll guys.I think that and the whole holding onto her past relationship was just kind of rubbing me the wrong way.
Other than that, I liked the overall story (in a way) and I was really happy when I finished the book.
Pretty good for chick lit.
The situations were often (but not always) unrealistic, but the character's emotions were genuine, which helped to make the heroine likable and impressive.
The second half of the book was pretty strong and I devoured it quickly.
I liked that Cannie's weight loss obsession took a backseat when other more important issues were happening in her life.
I was glad that the book wasn't just a huge diatribe of weight loss woes.
Overall worth a read.Buy, Borrow or Bin Verdict: BorrowCheck out more of my reviews hereNote: I received this book for free in exchange for an honest review.
I don't like reading a book with what feels like a lump in my throat the whole time.
I like a release from the pressure at least every once in awhile.
I didn't particularly like Cannie and yet I disliked what happened to her.
I ended taking this book to work and putting it in the 'free if you want pile'.
Someone I worked with picked it up, read it, and gave it a few more stars than I did; however, not a big 'must read' rating.
I have another book by her that I don't think I'll ever read.
Some days, all I want is good chick-lit.
Good in Bed sells itself as chick lit.
And for a book that is supposed to normalise plus-size romance, Cannie spends like 65% of the book whining about being fat.
It does have other chick-lit aspects to it, however, like making a celebrity best friend, publishing a movie script, and having a hot (Jewish) doctor fall in love with you.
All I wanted was a good romance, and while this book is a lot of things, it definitely isn't a good romance.
I am haunted by this book. There is a scene in it that I think about all the time. I don't know if the writing was that good or if something about it just resonated with me - Either way I seriously think about it alot. Has it really been almost 6 years since I read this?
This book hurt my soul. I found that I couldn't put it down... It's not well written, completely mindless and the story is nonsense.
It’s got a sassy protagonist Cannie, her tell all ex-boyfriend, her hot lawyer bestie, her newly lesbian mom, her underhanded co-worker, and so on.
Cannie’s mother has what looks like a terrible marriage to a man (who is by all accounts a shitty father too), and after struggling through a divorce and single-motherhood, she finds love and happiness in the arms of “the Dread Lesbian Tanya.” I.
I’d have liked a non-homophobic Cannie to win, for a fat girl to beat out the others, but this was too much for me.
The story is downright dark and depressing at times and I thought she nailed the emotional reactions to every major topic (e.g. her father's selfishness and lack of love for his kids, Bruce's callousness and consistent immaturity, and finally the birth of a premature baby).
My qualm was only with the unfeasibility of some of the story's turns of events--specifically her chance meeting in the bathroom with the movie star who became her best friend, sold her screenplay for her, and then the section where she was in Hollywood just doing nothing for a month, during which time she wanders into a random doctor's office in California and finds her MIA father, all culminating in being pushed at the airport by her ex-boyfriend's new girlfriend, thus sending her into premature labor.
I picked up this book expecting a nice bit of easy reading chick lit but got so much more than that.
The prose is flawless, and it reads at a 'serious novel' pace giving an analogous level of satisfaction, as opposed to the complacent, irrelevant, weakly written 'chick lit' reads that you get from lousy, second-rate authors looking to cash in on the chick lit genre.
It is an intelligent, witty and thought-provoking read.Warning: Do not attempt to read this book while travelling on public transport.
A lot of people (mostly men) interrupted me to make jokes and comments about the title of the book and the author's surname.
Girl-power!What it really was about: Cannie's father is a doctor/douche that left when she was in college (Princeton) and he only paid for ONE year!
She is neither funny nor kind, and even berates the ex-boyfriends new girlfriend for being a kindergarten teacher and her choice of college.
They start out with good intentions, I think, and then they go down this slippery slide of "I'm going to bash and berate very single person that ever hurt me and I can because I'm like, an author and stuff." This book deserved more and we deserve more.
The novel is about how Cannie deals with the mess, and eventually moves on with her life.
(Weiner has admitted that she likes giving her characters happy endings, which is part of the reason I wanted to read this.
2016 has been such a dumpster fire of a year that a happy ending sounded pretty good.)I appreciated some aspects of the novel more knowing that they were based on Weiner's real life, such as the bad breakup, her struggles with overeating, and what it was like having her mother come out as a lesbian.
Whiny and self-indulgent wish fulfillment. This book left a bad taste in my mouth. I should've just reread Bridget Jones's Diary.
It was like a diary of a mad woman.
All this time spent on talking about the small things could have been spent describing the environment and characters with more light.Anyway, the main character, Cannie is a plus sized woman that did not have the best childhood.
I cringed as I read and discovered this mad woman making mistake after mistake without any of the supporting characters spotting on.
All in all, this book felt like Sex in The City meets Diary of a Mad Black Woman...
Reading on Wikipedia about this book, I learned that this is supposed to be chick lit.
I started this book thinking I was reading Chick Lit or its older sister Women's Fiction.
Jennifer Weiner has been very vocally involved in a discussion lately about how women writers are treated by reviewers, and now I can see why this is an issue for her.
Cannie Shapiro, Weiener's protagonist in this book, is wrestling with relationship and family issues, much like male characters in novels written by men.
Cannie also has body image issues, but let's parallel that with men in books who talk about their substance abuse or their penis.
Cannie is a writer, as many, many male protagonists are.
Okay, so I liked the book and I hated the book.
I liked the book because Cannie was HIGHlarious, but I hated it because she was a whinny sorry excuse for a women.
I be damn if I'm not going to beat the crap out of some chick that pushes me into a sink and almost kills my baby, I'll be damn if some dude is going to write crap about me and get away with it.
Maybe I am just a vindictive person or a hateful one because oh my Cannie was such a push over.
it was crap, the book was crap, I was no where happy with the book, except she made me giggle a few times.
Baiklah…Setelah membaca Good in Bed ini, hampir sepanjang bab isinya selalu menceritakan Bruce seperti halnya ciri khas dia, kebiasannya, gayanya, bendanya, kegemarannya hingga aku benar-benar bosan mendengar tentang Bruce mulu rasanya hampir saja aku pengen bersesudahan dan tidak ingin menyelesaikan namun, aku tidak bisa menahan betapa penasaran si Cannie, gadis yang memiliki tubuh besar selalu dikerundungi kemalangan, harga dirinya runtuh, bahkan dia mencoba diet, membuatku kasihan terhadap Cannie, jadi yaaah….aku meneruskan membaca sampai selesai.
Sementara artikel tidak menyebutkan namanya, hanya berinisial “C” dia tahu semua yang ditulis oleh Bruce, Rincian yang begitu mendetail tentang dirinya dan perjuangan pribadinya dengan gambar tubuhnya.
But I don't know that any of this moved in the direction I expected, as I mentioned before.I tend to like less realistic chicklit, to escape reality, and this had a really bizarre combination of that, and horrid reality.
I was totally crying in a couple of places, and not because they were touching and cute (like I would normally expect with chicklit).
If you have weight issues, or have ever lost/almost lost a baby, I could see this being just a little too "real." Much like when I read the light-hearted chicklit that included the death of a father, it might have just been a little too close to home.
this book is that girl in high school you knew and didn't really like.
and she was a little fat, so you would talk to her way more often than if she'd been thin or "normal" or whatever, because you didn't want her weight to have anything to do with you not liking her, so you'd suffer through talking to her in the halls and at lunches, but by god, the more you talked to her, the duller she became.
(we heard)so this book is that girl.
it's ok to not read it; we know it's not because you don't like fat people.
