https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682751.Animalia
Brilliant Book.I have read many ABC book to the kids over the years and this by far is the very best of them.
There is alliteration - love it, and it good alliteration too.
The never-gonna-stop nephew looked at this for an hour looking for all the little details.
Both kids read this with joy.
I love what he did with 'X'.
I love what he did with 'X'.
I love Kitty Koala and the 'K' page in general.
I love the outrageous Ostrich.
'X' is the best for using the letter.
This book gave me joy.
I love this book so much! I practically lived in it when I was kid.
Rabid Reviewer Raves Raucously Re Regal Rudiments for ReadingOkay, parents and grandparents (and those who have no progeny), this is the GREATEST graphical alphabet book for youngsters, young readers, old fogies, and any other group of English-language readers whatsoever.Each letter of the alphabet gets either a full page, or a two-page spread of beautiful color art depicting numerous animals and items which start with the given letter.
Perfect for an oldie and a youngster going through together, looking at each item in the picture and figuring out (if they can) what word the wonderful Graeme Base had in mind.Over 3 million copies of the book have been sold.
I found a copy for a friend's grandchild. This reminded me to have a look at my own copy & I have just had a lot of pleasure, not only looking at the beautiful pictures, but appreciating Base's rich use of language. I blush to say I didn't find all the little Graemes. A beautiful body of work that took Base three years to complete.It can't be a spoiler to show one (ok two!) pictures. Just gorgeous.I used to own   as well. While I didn't enjoy that book quite as much I'm sad that it appears t
I found a copy for a friend's grandchild.
This reminded me to have a look at my own copy & I have just had a lot of pleasure, not only looking at the beautiful pictures, but appreciating Base's rich use of language.
I blush to say I didn't find all the little Graemes.
A beautiful body of work that took Base three years to complete.It can't be a spoiler to show one (ok two!) pictures.
Just gorgeous.I used to own 
While I didn't enjoy that book quite as much I'm sad that it appears to be missing.
Hopefully a copy will turn up at my work.
Although I do quite enjoy Graeme Base's Animalia as a general concept, the intricate and involved illustrations do seem incredibly over busy and much too in-one's-face for them to ever be even remotely considered personal favourites (as I tend to rather crave and even require visual simplicity and unclutteredness, and sadly, upon rereading Animalia, the over-busyness actually started to give me a bit of a sick headache).
It can take a very long time to read this 32 page book, not because the text takes that long to read, but the illustrations are so profuse that it can take ages to find everything on each page.
This can be read by children to themselves but it’s much more fun to read it with one another and point out all the A, B, C, etc.
I’d recommend it to most 4-8 year olds, although there are a few illustrations of things that could be frightening for some sensitive children.
What I love is that the phrases for each letter are very involved, lots of great words here, no "dumbing-down" for kiddies.
images" in the pictures (the animals are the main focus) I soon realized that Base was adding lots of OTHER images with the given letter.
For example: Unicorns for "U" is the main focus, but then if you look carefully you can also see umbrellas and Union Jacks in the picture.
Kids will love that.
I didn't give the book five stars because, alas, I'm not really a fan of his illustration style--this is just personal taste and I think this is a great alphabet book!
One of my favourite books from years ago, I finally picked up a copy for myself the other day.
This beautifully - and cleverly - illustrated children's book is just as much fun when you're an adult.
Each page or double-page spread conjures a letter of the alphabet with rhyming alliteration and illustrations full of things starting with that letter.
We used to have races to find and list as many words as we could from the pictures, and we had a jigsaw puzzle of the Crimson Cats page.
Endless fun for kids and a great way to learn new vocab.
My ardor for this amazing book really cooled once I noticed the swastika. Am I too sensitive? Is it weird that I more or less accepted the kangaroo kidnapping a lady koala with a kalashnikov, but I draw the line at Nazi symbols...? In any case, this book is incredible and my toddler loves it, but I never could quite enjoy it the same way again and there are a lot of other children's books out there that don't have hidden swastikas and who knows what else in them.
Last review of June (although I'm behind a few days with a busy schedule) bringing me to an approximate halfway point on this challenge/goal.
I recently saw this book, and I gravitated towards it and was again with my nose inside.
I spent many similar afternoons and evenings like so as a child.
Wow, did I love this book as a child.
Hands down, from my experiences as child and emerging reader, the best ABC book I laid hands on.
I'm so happy I came across this one again so I can add it to my year in picture books - it needed this one included!
A charming abcedary that little kids won't mind being read to from, and adults will enjoy reading out of to. My favorite is the "C" two-page spread, in which a crawdad, a creek, and a can (that once held Coca-Cola), as well many other items beginning with "C," battle it out for visual supremacy. The artwork is so far above the norm that in this reviewer's opinion it counts as classic.
An absolutely gorgeous alphabet book, with my favorite ever L page "Lazy Lions Lounging in the Local Library". See how many items you can find that start with the featured letter. C'mon, it's fun![image error]
I'm a bad parent to have held out the Graeme Base books from the Offspring (but they're signed, and they have little Base doodles, and they're mine). The PandaBat is now enthralled. We hunted down little Graemes for an hour.
The second, which is the approach taken in this book, is to have as many items as possible crammed onto each page.The result is an alphabet book that grows with your kid, because even a grown-up can spend a lot of time quietly poring over the pages of the book to catch one last detail, find one more F word, locate the boy in the striped shirt on every page.There are a few pages that seemingly indicate violence - hogs going into battle, a kangaroo in a kidnapping, warrior wasps - so parents of more sensitive children will want to read this book before purchasing.
I am very in the minority here, but when I read this book as a kid I just felt really overwhelmed by the illustrations. They were just so full and busy that it was too much for me. When I read it again yesterday I had the same feeling. I love the words and the way the author uses such a vast vocabulary, it's a great book for that. I just find myself getting really frustrated when I read and wanting to clean up each page to make it less "messy."
A great ABC book with fascinating illustrations. I just spent almost an hour looking at the base of every picture, trying to find all the other 'hidden' images that start with the same letter as the main theme. This is a great book to read along with inquisitive children, as their curious eyes hardly miss anything.
I can't believe it took me until my 5th child to find this book. The illustrations are luscious - you could spend hours picking out the details. I am buying this one in hardcover. If you have a pre-k/kindergartener, be sure to check it out!
I must have checked this out from the library a hundred times.
I love this book! Sometimes I get out my copy and look for the objects in each book just for the fun of it. Being a librarian, my favorite picture, of course, is the library lions!
On that page alone, little kids can point to a dog or a dragon, older children can pick out dynamite or Doctor Who, and adults can feel smug at identifying the hard stuff.Like the Decalogue.
It’s possible that Graeme Base contributed more to my lifelong love of crime and mystery novels than any other author.
Including a hidden picture of the author himself as a boy – it’s like a Where’s Wally in a book that’s already full of challenges.
Bill Bryson is my all-time favourite writer, Stephen Hawking the world’s finest brain, and Graeme Base in a league of his own as a children’s author and illustrator.
I read this as a kid. Good book to learn about animals. I am trying to go back and review as many books as possible that I have "read" so that in the future I can read my reviews and remember more about each book. So sorry for the news feed full of random reviews of kids books!
"Animalia" is a fun, colorful safari ride through the alphabet.
The book is bursting with illustrations of animals, from peacocks to lions and animal legends, such as unicorns and dragons.
The writing is joyful and silly.The road map for the journey features each letter of the alphabet, from A to Z with zany alliteration.
For instance, "G," reads "Great Green Gorillas Growing Grapes In A Gorgeous Glass Greenhouse." Sure enough, there are shamrock green gorillas.
There is great potential for an "I Spy"-like game here.
In fact, the book's introduction encourages it.
This is one of those children's books that I bought long before I had a child.
It's a great book that works on so many levels.
This book is a great read-aloud for story time with toddlers and preschoolers.
School-age children to adults will enjoy hunting for objects beginning with the featured letter on each illustrated page -- kind of like an early I Spy book, only you have to identify the objects, not just find them.Graeme Base spend three years working on this book and was a very young man when he did it.
Not a second of his time was wasted.
Lush alliteration and gorgeously detailed pictures are just a few of the reasons why we really like this alphabet book by Graeme Base.
The numerous inclusion of items that begin with each featured letter scattered throughout each page makes the entire book a treasure hunt.
And I even liked the way he handled the letter 'X' - it can be such a troublesome letter and there was nary a xylophone in sight.
I love it!This book was selected as one of the books for the October 2013 - Alphabet books discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
I don't understand the less than average ratings for this book.
By the time they are learning to read and write, they are far more advanced verbally than their little eyes are able to read.
So parents and teachers don't treat them like babies, but start to teach, and stretch their little minds and understanding.
Nothing but love for this book.
The complex pictures provide an ample opportunity for littl'uns to find items they are more familiar with that begin with the various letters, and ones that adults may need to explain.
Amazing illustrations...
every child worth his or her salt in primary school owned a copy of this and The Eleventh Hour!
(And a box of Derwents too, for that matter.) The most fun the first time you reach the end as well:A final word before we go;There's one more thing you ought to know:In Animalia, you see,It's possible you might find me.Whereupon you have to scour through each page all over again to find Graeme!
It's like Where's Wally only BETTER.ETA 20/10/2012: I also now own a miniature paperback version of this, courtesy of the Herald Sun's kids book promotion :D
An amazing, unique take on your standard alphabet book. Base has clearly put a lot of time and effort into creating each of the illustrations, and the intricate detail on display is phenomenal. One could spend hours studying every page to discover all of the images hidden inside! The X page is a bit of a cheat since none of the words included start with the letter X, but I give Base a pass since he goes above and beyond with V, of all letters. This is a very fun book that I will definitely enjoy revisiting with my son.
This is the most fabulous alphabet book ever! I wish it had been written when I was a child, but I've enjoyed it tremendously as an adult. Every time I read it again, I find more pictures to identify with whatever letter I'm reading. It is way more interesting and imaginative an introduction to the alphabet than any other ABC book I've ever read. For example, the F page, “Four Fat Frogs Fishing for Frightened Fish”, also has a flamingo, fan, fungus, forest, fuschia, ferns, and other interesting F stuff in the picture. A great read, and ever new.
This is an amazing book which takes a look at the alphabet, from A to Z. The illustrations are rich, complex, busy, intriguing, and expertly articulated. The longer you look at each page, the more you will see! The title which announces each letter uses alliteration to the max! This book is not just for kids who are learning their letters. Adults would enjoy this book as well. This is a classic and a keeper to stay on the shelf for generations to enjoy.
This book feels to me like a book that you could/should hours with...there is just so much detail and so many layers. Even though I have read it with my children 3 or 4 times, I still know there is more to see and find. The illustrations are gorgeous, and the alliterative lines are wonderful to read aloud. I need to find/make more time to explore this book more.
