https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816870.Johnny_Tremain
Anyhow, long story short, Johnny got his job back at the paper and married Cilla cause she was pregnant or something which was not totally unusual at this time for a fourteen year old girl.
In any case the book sprays out an unweilding amount of boy drama and hot girl sort of descriptions about the towns folk to the point that any nine to nineteen year old would easily form a wicked boy crush on both Johnny, Tubbers and Cilla, the latter being a girl-crush.
"wah, I was born rich but I grew up poor. wah, I burned my hand."
How in the world did I only give this three stars before? This book was pretty much perfect. I have recently learned that this author was my great-grandmother's college roommate. My desire to reread has very much intensified.
Great story about the Revolutionary War from the perspective of a silver smith.
Many famous names from that time are in the story like John Hancock and Sam Adams.
Johnny is an apprentice as a silver smith until an unfortunate accident maims his hands.
Johnny slaps his friend who is a girl for something she says in front of a room of people.
Johnny was a great character until that scene.
I rated it high for the great portrayal of the time period, but that scene really bothered me.
I guess that kind of thing did happen in that time period.
Johnny Tremain takes place in pre-revolutionary Boston and is about a prideful (but slowly improving) boy who finds himself in the center of the independence fervor.
As Johnny Tremain struggled with adversity, his decisions, and his relationships with those around him - all the while inviting us into this exciting time - I could not help but become emotionally attached to his character and his story.
Not only is it an exciting way to get a view into an essential period of America's history but uses a relatively high level of language for being dubbed a children's book.
I hated this book!!!! if u read this book you will become boring and old!this book pulls you into a wrinkled old time of so-called "action"!!! i could havefound more action by going to a retirement home and watching the 900 year old people play bingo!!!!!! i of course was forced against my will to read this,otherwise, i wouldnt go spitting distance of it!!!! if you enjoyed this book (mr.flegar) then you are boring old!! do not read this thing! it's a plague!save yourselves!!!!!!!!
It has mystery, suspense, romance, history, coming-of-age, overcoming personal and physical problems; gosh, it has it all.I've always wanted to read this book, just never got around to it till now.
If your child is studying Revolutionary War times in history, this would be a great literary supplement to that history lesson.
It brings the history of that time to life.Including, but not limited to: One if by land, two if by sea, Paul Revere, John Hancock, Lexington and Concord, Minute Men, Boston Tea Party...and more.
All seen through the eyes of our fourteen-year-old hero, Johnny.I highly recommend this book.
Definetly not the greatest book ever written. Pretty terrible actually!! Didn't like it at all. Expected it to be better and i'm very dissapointed. It was very hard to understand what was going on im each chapter and I would not recommend this book to anyone.
It was really good, although the ending was bittersweet and there were a few loose ends I felt needed tying up.I loved the little backstory/mystery with the Lytes (I think I'm spelling that right!).
Also, I loved Goblin (no, it's not silly to have a horse as your favorite character).It was cool how some of the British were portrayed as normal people instead of devils.
;) Seriously, though, it was nice to see both sides portrayed as having faults.There were also some characters I hated ...
I hated Miss Lyte for most of the book, only to be pleased with her in the end.
It showed a boy, who, making new friends, joined the cause to make the world a place where “a man could stand up.”Cons:N/ACharacters 5/5Pros:Every character in Johnny Tremain was wonderful, but a few stood out in my opinion:Rab-he was so laid-back and likable!Cilla-she was incredibly loyal and sweetJames Otis-he was thought insane by most, but the message of the book came from him: “that a man can stand up”Cons:N/AStyle 5/5Pros:Esther Forbes has one of my favorite styles of writing.
‘A boy in time of peace and a man in time of war.’”“‘That a man can stand up’ — as simple as that.
I have long believed that when I need some 'light' reading, good children's literature beats pulp fiction every time.
It satisfied and made me glad I read it when I was done.Esther Forbes won me by page 55 when I read this sentence: 'Spiritually Johnny shrugged, determined to be neither over-impressed nor envious.'I was struck by the autodidactical aspect of Johnny's practices.
This quote captures his omnivorous reading appetite and made me laugh aloud:'He spent his time [...] in learning to write with his left hand, and an orgy of reading.
He read anything — everything.
Gold standard for historical read-aloud fiction.
I hated this book when I read it in middle school (?). I had to choose a historical fiction book and I believe the librarian recommended this one. I found it terribly boring when I read it. Looking back now, I probably wasn't very open minded about reading something I wasn't really interested in, like most kids.
HATED THIS BOOK
Sometimes I think reading books for school makes me want to read less.
Classics Cleanup Challenge #10Audio #158
I remember loving this book years (or decades?) ago in elementary school and given that it is set in Boston on the eve of the Revolutionary War, it was a perfect choice for a family road trip from Boston to Cape Cod. The title character, Johnny Tremain, is an apprentice to a mediocre silver smith.
Due to an accident while pouring silver on the Sabbath, Johnny's hand is maimed and he is forced to take a more menial job delivering the town newspaper.
Certainly the first historic fiction I ever read because it was the first book I read myself.
Whetted my appetite for more.Having moved many times as a child, I was functionally illiterate.
(I faked reading by memorizing the Dick and Jane stories at school.) My mother enrolled me in a summer reading program which taught phonics.
(Contrary to the Wikipedia entry, most schools did not teach phonics in the mid-20th century.) Wow.I picked Johnny Tremain (Probably not this edition) from the library at Anderson AFB, Guam, and read it myself.Thus began a life-long love of history, historical fiction and books.Thanks, Mom.
If I'm not mistaken this is yet another book ruined by the same awful teacher who ruined a bunch of other books. Oh well.
Maybe I bought a copy of this at the U.S.S. Constitution gift shop in Boston this weekend. MAYBE I DID. AND MAYBE I DON'T CARE IF YOU KNOW IT!
As an apprentice to a silversmith, Johnny sees great success and is a good worker.
But he suffers from an accident which results in serious burns, leaving his thumb attached to his hand – promptly ending his career as a silversmith apprentice.
As war becomes close at hand, Rab, who is from Lexington, decides to join the Minute Men there.
When the first British troops start moving, Johnny is there to relay the message to Paul Revere, who makes his historical midnight ride throughout the countryside to warn the Minute Men. I think this book would be great for 5th graders.
Again, it was a couple years or so ago that I read this book (I feel like all my most recent reviews start out with like this...).
But anyways, I remember that I loved the book (and that the movie was a little bit of a disappointment).
Johnny Tremain was very lovable, and if I remember right, there was a young little romance between him and Cila (was that her name?).
Some of the parts were so heart-wrenching, and some were so wonderful that I'm pretty sure I went back to slowly re-read and soak everything in.
Definitely a 5-star rating!
Read in 1977 - pre-GoodreadsReview 12.01.17Yikes, that's a review done 40 years after the fact. What do I remember about this? I remember I liked it. I remember it was about the Revolutionary War. I remember about the silver and the hand and the webbing. Still gives me chills. I later on went to a Christian school where we weren't allowed to read this. I think it was because it had a swear word in it.
I feel a renewed sense of appreciation for the good ole' US of A. The Revolutionary War era has never appealed to me, so I haven't read many historical fiction books set in that time. Now I really want to read more! Johnny Tremain was packed with historical detail, and I savored every word. It was empowering and page-turning. The mystery and friendships were so well-written. I will definitely be stuck somewhere in Johnny's world for a while.
I read this nearly 8 times over the course of my life. I think the first time I read it was when I was 10, but I have been in love with it ever since. Whenever someone asks about my favorite historical fiction book, I always remember this one the most. Just superb!
As she recounts the life experiences of twelve-year-old Johnny Tremain, Esther Forbes skillfully conveys the excitement, danger and commitment experienced by the patriots who fought during the US Revolution.
Many of the characters in this account are accurately portrayed and described—including several of those who helped write the Declaration of Independence.
Reading this book cannot fail to make this time period truly understandable and alive.
Unfortunately the length and language discourage the younger reader.
I read this and then I listened to the book on tape.
The book cassette was engaging and superb.This is a book to be read many times.
Wow it's so touching! I really LOVED how it ended completely! But I wish the author continued more with Cilla... haha gotta love romance. Overall it was great! I loved the details and it was like I was back in that time... being one with Johnny Tremain! HaHa sorry just trying to describe what I feel... sorta like, when I'm reading this book! :O Well I don't think much of my friend's would enjoy reading this book but I certainly have. Maybe... *cough* insane Helen did but she's insane so xP
I read this in eighth grade or so for school. The beginning was pretty entertaining, but as the story went on, it got less exciting. (view spoiler)[It was rather interesting hearing of Johnny's experience as a cripple. (hide spoiler)] I don't remember much else, other than that.
The book itself was not a surprise. I had a large idea how the story was going to go. In the beginning, I enjoyed it but it slowly disappeared. If I didn't know what to expect, I probably would have enjoyed it. A fun classic book about the beginning of Revolutionary War.
You know how when you go to open goodreads, it says, "goodreads. Meet your next favorite book." Well. I did, and this is it.
