https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13210.Wouldn_t_Take_Nothing_for_My_Journey_Now
Maybe today more than ever.The second quote can be applied in many different ways, from health decisions to the personal, and certainly the current political climate and how we feel about what is happening in our world?" Each of us has the right and the responsibility to assess the roads that lie ahead, and those over which we have traveled, and if the future road looks ominous or unpromising and the roads back uninviting, than we need to gather our resolve and, carrying only the necessary baggage, step off that road into another direction.
Maya Angelou recites her poem for Bill Clinton's 1993 inauguration.MAYA Angelou, author of the best-selling books I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings, Gather Together in My Name, and the Heart of a Woman, has also written several collections of poetry, including Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water ’fore I Diiie.
In Annie’s words: ‘I looked up the road I was going and back the way I come, and since I wasn’t satisfied, I decided to step off the road and cut me a new path.’ Each morning Annie, armed with an iron brazier and coal, would walk three miles to a cotton mill, carrying two five-gallon pails filled with chicken pies.
I started reading this during a short train ride. Chapter one: In All Ways A Woman. I drank it up, and then I thought and thought and thought. and then I went to my writing group, and started to talk. And I haven't stopped talking about it. Granted, every chapter is short. Every theme, random. But each makes me think. Use it for your morning meditations or read one chapter per train ride.
Ms. Angelou shares a lot of wisdom in this book...I love it where she states, "We need to have the courage to say that obesity is not funny, vulgarity is not amusing, insolent children and submissive parents are not the characters we want to admire and emulate. Flippancy and sarcasm are not the only ways in which conversation can be conducted."
Aside from a scene at the bar, when the narrator has a breakdown after realizing that despite her stardom she is alone and without a date, I didn't go on an experience in this book--like I do with Maya Angelou's books.
Not sure what I expected. The pieces in here are like journal, note-to-self entries for the writer's records, only that some of the thoughts will inspire whosoever picks it up. Otherwise, pretty "meh."
This book made me feel good to be a woman. The life lessons are wonderful. The chapters are short, but each one pertains to life and our journey through it.
This book is a collection of Maya Angelou's meditations on a broad range of subjects, from health to manners to memories.
I picked it up expecting a quick read, but was unprepared for how quick it really is: there's really very little content, and her meditations are generally only a few paragraphs long.
Are they, as the poet James Weldon Johnson said, 'resting in the bosom of Jesus?' If so, what about my Jewish loves, my Japanese dears, and my Muslim darlings?
48) You know, some of us do just fine without Jesus's bosom, thankyouverymuch.
I was disappointed that the book had so little content.
It's hard to find words to describe how much I loved this book but I'll do my best.
Reading this was like talking deeply with a favorite aunt, a wise grandmother, a best friend, and a sister all rolled into one.
There are books that just feel good to read, that bring us back to ourselves and remind us about the existence of our soul.
Maya angelo reminds us that everything we do, every seed we sew, every energy we put out into the world, shapes the world around us and will directly come back onto us.
Maya Angelou discusses life and some of the lessons she’s learned along the way.
Faith, racism, grieving, and respect are just a few of the topics included in this book.While most of the lessons this author speaks about were inspiring, there was one in particular which I liked the most.
Sometimes you come to a point in which you are not satisfied with the way your life is headed or with the choices you have in front of you.
It always feels rewarding when you can come away from a book feeling like you learned something valuable that you can apply to your own life.
after reading "i know why the caged bird sings" and "singin and swingin and gettin merry..." this fall, i was excited to read the final paperback that came in this box set that i borrowed from my mom.
the book is dedicated to oprah and it feels clear that it is targeted towards her audience - little "pearls of wisdom" rather than whole stories.
of course it's still maya angelou so there really are some pearls in there, she is amazing and smart and funny and real, but just as i would start to get into her story she would wrap it up with some lesson or advice, then move on to the next one.
it didn't feel fulfilling.
For anyone who hasn't read Maya Angelou I'd run to the closest bookstore.
I've read all her books, as I do when I like any author, and I have to say Maya Angelou is beautiful and gracious in all of her books as well as in person.
I saw her once in Santa Cruz, Ca. and once in New Mexico and I often think about the regal presence she gave in her presentations.
Both a poet and memoir writer, her books speak about life and love and hardship and they don't mess around.
You can start with any of her books you choose and you'll be glad you did.
I was given this as a gift nearly 20 years ago when I was still in my teens, and just re-read it recently.
This was my introduction to Maya Angelou, and reading it the second time was as wonderful of an experience as reading it the first time.
This is an excellent gift for a woman of any age, especially for a young woman.
Curl up with Maya, a cup of coffee or a glass of wine anytime you want to feel a little more connected to all that you are, or connected to the wonderful women in your life.
I really like the book. She is a great woman who had a lot of wise things to share. One of my favorite quotes from the book is “Perhaps travel cannot prevent bigotry, but by demonstrating that all peoples cry, laugh, eat, worry, and die, it can introduce the idea that if we try and understand each other, we may even become friends.” I think this book would make a great gift for a young person just starting out their journey in life.
I wish I had a pen with me while reading this because I want to underline every sentence! This book is definitely a quick read and it's one that everyone should give a chance. Each passage ends with these metaphors or these important lessons that are so beautiful! I'm definitely going to re-read it again very soon. And if you have a birthday coming up just know that this book is what I'm getting you :)
Liked this book by Maya Angelou. It was filled with short essays about her experiences and about women. The snippets she provided about her own life picqued my interest to the point that I might see if she has a bio or autobio out there. Update: she has 6 autobiographies. Guess I'll start with 'I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings'.
A bit too short for me and it didn't really touch me as much as I was expecting.
loved this book, a quick wonderful read. the book is a bout life, and Maya Angelou tells it by short stories, situations and poems
We are more alike, my friends,than we are unalike.
I think that is what I personally love about Maya Angelou, she unabashedly and without any sense of shame or shyness lays out her experiences in life and has something everybody can relate to on the human level.
HomeAfricaOprah WinfreyAgingSensuality and SexualityFameAnger/Rage/ViolenceBeing a WomanHow to Live WellThe Power of Faith and SpiritualityThese two books, like so many of her other published pieces, make on feel as if they are receiving sage advice, wisdom, and a sense of peace via conversations with a dear and beloved friend.
"If you don't like something, change it and if you can't change it, then change the way you think about it."The wisdom as well as the wit with which the wisdom was expressed can be applied to everyday life.
I love a book that makes me feel like an older family member just imparted me with some invaluable life lessons and experiences that are gonna help me make my own life just a bit better.If only all of my thoughts could come out of my mind and mouth being so short and to the point the way hers do.
It's not to say that the ideas in here aren't good, but they do make this beautiful brain that is Maya Angelou look simple, disjointed and un-put-together (and I've read "Caged Bird" so I know better).
It looks like she did this for a quick buck.
Nobody turns something like this and slaps a $6.99 price tag on the back without just trying to stuff their pockets.
It's cheap, and she is better than that.It's heresy to say these sorts of things about a legend, but equally, I have greater expectations from a legend.

The first book that introduced me to Maya Angelou was " I know why the caged bird sings, and I've loved her books since that very first read.Wouldn't take nothing for my journey now is just as riveting, albeit on the spiritual and introspective side.
She has a unique way of looking at the things,good and bad that has affected her life .
WhatI got from reading this book is change one thing, no matter how horrible, change everything.
I got the chance to see her at the Paramount theatre in Oakland, California in the eighties.
This book is worth reading anytime!
In my mind, this book will be archived with the title How to Be. Maya Angelou's writing style is so musical and beautiful; I wished it would go on forever. Alas, it is quite short. I read this in bed on a Sunday morning. But literature does not necessarily need length to be impactful. I trust the hell out of Maya Angelou to tell me how I should live my life, and her anecdotes and opinions regarding womanhood, love, death, style, respect, and virtue are ones I will not soon forget.
I really enjoyed this book. It was short and sweet, a collection of essays/tidbits of wisdom that Ms. Angelou collected throughout her life. Some of the tidbits were a little cliche, but others really hit home for me.This is a very short book - I finished it in about 30 minutes - but it's one I will reread. Love Maya Angelou. :)
I love reading this book. It is so heart-warming. My favorite chapters are In the Spirit, Jealousy, and A Day Away. All three of these chapters really touched me. I wish that everyone could read this simply antedotes on living well. It would be a better place.
I have to give this little book 5 out of 5. I really enjoyed it and now wish to own a copy of my own. It was quick and easy to read and made me think a lot. I'd struggle to find a favourite part as I enjoyed it all. A must read for me.
While I love Maya Angelou, this books seemed a little scattered and piecemeal. I would prefer to see her choose a few of the topics she writes about in the book and delve into them further. It was an okay read, but not my favorite of her works.
I would recommend this book to (almost) anyone. It's incredibly uplifting, full of generosity that we sometimes lack in our day to day lives. I think everyone can learn something from her stories.
