https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41015723-swords-in-the-mist
This may just be my favorite "Swords" volume.
This--in spite of the fact that it is designated #3 in the series--is as good a place for new readers to begin their journey through the marvelous kingdom of Lankhmar.Two of the short stories develop familiar fantasy and horror themes--a malevolent meteorological phenomenon ("The Cloud of Hate") and a temporary entrance to an undersea kingdom ("When the Sea Kings Away")--with such precisely-imagined detail that they become startlingly original.
"Lean Times in Lankhmar" is quintessential Leiber, featuring a memorable evocation of the city's "Street of the Gods," and a superb narrative exposition in which details that first appear merely descriptive all contribute to an exciting--and hilarious--denouement.
It is called The Cloud of Hate and is as good as any in the second book - I suspect it was an inertia which kept it so.After the great start the pace of the plot came to a screeching halt.
I really mean it; they play passive roles in the drama only reacting to the events and never actually acting to prevent them.A good writing quality and really mediocre stories most of the time yield 3 star rating for the series.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Swords in the Mist (1968) is Fritz Leiber’s third collection of stories about Fafhrd, the big northern barbarian, and the Gray Mouser, his small wily companion who has a predilection for thievery and black magic.
* "Their Mistress, the Sea" (original publication) — This story makes a nice bridge between “Lean Times in Lankhmar” and “When the Sea-King’s Away” but it’s entertaining in its own right.
I would suggest that, unless you consider yourself a completist, you find “Lean Times in Lankhmar” and “When the Sea-King’s Away” and skip the rest of Swords in the Mist.
Swords in the Mist: Uneven volume, but “Lean Times in Lankhmar” is goodOriginally posted at Fantasy LiteratureThis is the third collection of stories in Fritz Leiber’s FAFHRD AND THE GRAY MOUSER series, and the quality is quite varied.
Finally, “Adept’s Gambit” (1947), is an odd fish that doesn’t really fit with the rest of the series, a novella in which Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser are placed in our ancient world and sent on a long quest by Ningauble of the Seven Eyes.The highlight is definitely “Lean Times in Lankhmar,” in which Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser part ways to settle down and give up their adventuring.

Fritz Leiber invented the term "sword and sorcery", and he was the finest author the genre has ever had.
In fact he was, in my opinion, the finest author of fantasy period.
I rank him above Tolkien, Howard and Moorcock, never mind Martin or Jordan.
I've read him described as a "master prose stylist", and the description is apt indeed.
Fritz Leiber was, simply, a terrific, extremely talented writer with a true love of language and a prodigious, playful, incredibly unique style.
He was the best, period, and anyone with any interest at all in fantasy who neglects Leiber is cheating himself.
4.0 stars. Third in the Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser series, this book (actually a series of connected short stories) continues the excellence of the preceding two novels. I look at these stories as the fantasy equivalent of comfort food. They are always entertaining, take place in exotic locations with great characters and and friendship of the Fafhrd and the Mouser is the glue that brings the stories together. A fun, fast read.
It's rather easily dispatched in the end, but I like this story a lot, mostly because of how Leiber describes the different denizens of Lankhmar, including Fafhrd and the mouser, reacting to this hate-fogg and its attempts to get into their minds.
In this case it's maybe a bit too much, as mouser and Fafhrd just kind of shrug of the Mingol's intentions as the harmless whims of a silly old men, and the women in question, it's suggested, might even be ok with the idea.
“Is it not sweeter now to hear the music of Innesgay’s betrothal from afar than mingle with the feasters, jig with them, be cramped and blinkered by their social rituals?” “There’s many a one in Lankhmar gnawn fleshless with envy by those sounds tonight,” the Mouser said darkly.
Out here we see the city and the stars, we hear the rustle and the tramp of life, we crouch like hunters in a stony blind, straining our senses for—” “Please, Fafhrd, no more danger signs,” the Mouser protested.
A Must-Read for All Fantasy fans.A full half of the book is one story, ADAPT'S GAMBIT & it is a bit of an odd bird.
It's an odd early story from 1948.
The prose style is obviously of a younger writer and early in the tale there are quite a few clumsy sentences with odd verbiage.
The prose style smooths out a bit as it progresses but the story structure is not as well built as an older Leiber would achieve later in life.
And oh, what a delightful respite this book is to Brett's long-winded tale.
I feel like I should like this more than I acctually do: Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser are fantastic characters, Leiber's prose is witty and sparkling, and sword & sorcery is one of my favorite genres. Yet, most of the time while reading this series, I'm bored out of my gourd. What gives?
Adept's Gambit was interesting, had a few very funny moments - like the interview vith the seven eyed warlock or the heroes magical troubles with girlfriends - but I felt it went on for too long.the opening story is The Cloud of Hate : good at setting the atmosphere and reaquainting the reader with the duo and with the city of Lankhmar.
Book three of the short stories created by the amazing Fritz Leiber. Included is the Adept's Gambit produced in the late 1930s and published in 1947. Set in Ancient Greece, so Fritz had to write a small story in the 1960s to set up some time travel for the Fafhrd and Gray Mouser. The best of the stories is "Lean Times in Lakhmar." Someone should snap up the media rights for these two brilliant characters. If you liked the play between the Hound And Arya, Brienne and Podrick, Logan and Jezal, they are all influenced by Fritz's writing.
The third installment of the adventures of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser. See my review on my blog, The Next Fifty, at:http://wanda-thenextfifty.blogspot.ca...Beautifully written
I`m amazed that not two texts have the same ideea and there are a lot of good and variated stories in this series.This time we have stories abou mysterious clouds in Lankhmar, amazing religions that separates, for only a brief moment our duo of heroes, we traverse the sea and other worlds in search of some Ancient deity, or we have other bizzare quests.There are some humour moments, the dialog has aso some funny lines and the love factor has it`s time, but, in truth, there isn't much attraction in the air, like it was the case with the first volume.
Leiber's conception is impressive, magical air tubes rising from the bottom of the sea to the surface, down one of which Fafhrd and then the Mouser climb on a rope tied to their sloop, and when the descending Mouser looks up, "the circle [of sky] overhead did grow smaller and more deeply blue, becoming a cobalt platter, a peacock saucer, and finally no more than a strange ultramarine coin that was the converging point of the tube and rope and in which the Mouser thought he saw a star flash." "The Wrong Branch" (1968) is a short transition "story" explaining how Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser could have adventures on our earth, there being hidden inside the mazy caverns of Ningauble of the Seven Eyes’ cave doors exiting into other worlds and times and universes.
Better freedom and a chilly road than a warm hearth and servitude.-The Cloud of HateYou could basically copy most of my review from Swords Against Death and print it here, because it's all applicable again, and while I suspect that it may also apply in the further books in the series and I'll have to find something else to talk about, I don't really care, because the stories are so evocative that I don't mind reading more of them even though there's no new characterization or plotting.The lack of overarching narrative isn't that surprising, because the stories were written over the course of decades and while this collection puts them in chronological order, they wouldn't originally have been read that way.
This book has my favorite (thus far) Fafhrd and Grey Mouser tale "Lean Times in Lankhmar."
Fritz Leiber's seven book 'Swords' series may well be the finest fantasy sequence ever written.
Whatever the reason, I am working my way quite slowly through the seven books and will probably finish the sequence no sooner than 2010.*Swords in the Mist* is the third in the series.
The entire second half of the volume is taken up with one novella, 'Adept's Gambit', which should be an utter masterpiece but is hampered by a curious narrative technique in which a crucial flashback takes place at exactly the same time as the crucial climax, both distracting from each other.

The first half of the book contains three classic stories: The Cloud of Hate, Lean Times in Lankhmar, and When The Sea King's Away. The latter is an especially creative story, with our heroes traveling under the sea in an attempt to mate with Poseidon's wives. The second half of the book contains the story Adept's Gambit, which isn't quite as good as the others. Ideally I'd give this book 3 and a half stars, but GoodReads doesn't do that.
So I have a weak spot for "Swords and Sorcery", and Leiber is quickly becoming a favorite in the genre. A great travel read - I read it on a plane back from Colombia, and it seemed perfect for the airplane environment for some reason.
Sword and sorcery mixed with high fantasy. I never liked Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser as well as Conan but they are fun reads. More light hearted than Howard's work, and more fantasy with less gritty realism. Still, I enjoyed them, and Leiber can really turn a phrase.
3rd Fafhrd and Grey Mouser book
Sebuah buku petualangan fantasi yang menyenangkan. Magicking, swordfighting & wenching abound!
Leiber has a way with words that is breathtaking. The world of Newhon is described with intensity and skill unmatched by any other fantasy authors I have read.
I felt more excited about continuing to read the series at the end of that tale, incidentally the last in the book, than at any other time.
Part of the reason for that -- a big part -- was the character of Ahura, who was clearly and strongly hinted as being a continuing/returning character when the adventures of Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser would continue in the next book, something never seen before in this series (though there were characters other than the central pair who continued across the stories within the first book, at least).
a tentokrát je v ní jen pár povídek a pak takový polorománek.
Některé z těch povídek jsou vyloženě na pár stran, spíš jen taková atmosférická rozpinkávačka před hlavní prací, a většina je na klasické téma "hrdinové někam jdou, objeví se něco, proti čemu nemají naprostou šanci (a jeden z nich je navíc posedlý nebo jinak mimo), ovšem stane se něco, co zlo zabije (nebo utečou)".
Nápady tady už nejsou tak zajímavé jako v minulé knize, ale je tu povídka Hubené časy, která je zatím to nejlepší, co jsem od Leibera četl.
Asi jako když čte staré Spider-Many od Stana Leeho.
This collection of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser suffers from a kind of bipolar situation.
The first 4 tales are short stories of the greatest kind.
In fact, all 4 of the first stories of this book are great.And then we get into "Adept's Gambit".
this is a longer tale and is a kind of tale-within-a-tale.
I did not enjoy that story, even though it does contain some good language and clever bits.
It is not a bad story...
it's just a bad Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser story.I still gave this 4 stars because the first half of the book is tops.
Again, this is not a novel.
It is a collection of short, charming tales of the adventures of two interesting sword-wielding characters.
Set in primitive, strange lands.
I read this book as part of the 3 book collection, and by the end, it gets a little tedious.
With no over-arching story, it's just little bites of stories.
They are well written, and well connected together .
but I'm taking a break before I read the next set of short stories.
I need a real novel to sink my teeth into.
Still, I recommend this author, and these characters.
Fun.
