https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825338.Take_Three_Tenses
This book treats over a century in the lives of members of the Dane family and develops interest in eight individuals and the roots and the results of their choices and attitudes.
Most are Londoners and a valuable view of English mores and beliefs is one of this novel's strengths.
I found some of the scenes of bereavement especially effective and also liked the author's profound support of faith and love in the face of seemingly fearsome circumstance.
Published in 1945, I conjecture that more than a few baby-boomers may owe their existence to its deserved popularity ( it was made into the 1948 film Enchantment with Teresa Wright, Evelyn Keyes, Farley Granger and David Niven).
Such an interesting book, that's sort of about nothing and everything simultaneously (well, aren't all the best books like that?)It manages to be both cosy and gossamer; almost claustrophobically stuck inside a house but at the same time it shimmers freely back and forth through past, present and future. Also it's surprisingly very feminist for 1945. I don't think you'd write it any differently today!This might actually be five stars, I can't quite decide. I think I need some distance from it.
There is something about Rumor Godden. In high school, I watched the movie "Enchantment," which is based on this novel, and LOVED it. I was reminded on this movie a bit ago and looked into it. It turned out that it was written by Rumor Godden who wrote one of my favorite children's books (Holly and Ivy). I very much enjoyed this book and the way that Ms. Godden deals with time and characters.
For the first ten or twenty pages I didn't really know what to make of "A Fugue in Time" (the novel's UK title) , and I must admit to thinking more than once that it was easy to see why it had been out of print for so long.
The reader has to pay close attention to the cues Rumer Godden gives us to alert us to sudden temporal changes - we may hear from Roly (the child), Rollo (the young blade) and Rolls (the retired general) in a single paragraph: in reality all are the same character at different stages of his long life.
I found myself very quickly engrossed in this, it's a very fine book.
What a unique book!
A love story, a story of second chances, a story of an old man reviewing his life while Word War II rages, a story of a family - all told from the point of view of a house, the house that old man stands to lose because the lease is about to expire.
Godden's greatest strengths, IMHO, are character and setting, and she does a wonderful job in presenting us with a family full of strong and flawed personalities.
You end up empathizing with characters you don't necessarily like.
The time frame ranges from the late 19th century to the 1950s, and the story is both open-ended and complete.
If you like Godden's other books, you'll enjoy this one.
Despite Rumer Godden being one of my favourite authors, this experimental novel did not quite work for me. She tries to have an overlay of three different time frames and sometimes in the same paragraph, which can get confusing.
The house itself is a main character and is described so well. There is such atmosphere. But - the time periods keep switching between generations without warning and I found that difficult to follow. It also meant I didn't really connect with the "human" characters.
Intricately woven tale in three time periods. Rumer Godden is just always high on my list.

Lost in Time Rumer Godden's works are masterpieces of the English language.
I've heard it said that, to God, all eternity is as the present.
Well, at least in a tiny part, to read Godden is to see time as God. Picture the way memory works: a thought may precede images of the future, which relate to thoughts of the past, which, in turn, focuses our attention on the present.
Godden writes like this, a glorious jumble of past, present, and future all roiling about inside our mind.
If you love words, reading, and the written word, you'll love the works of Rumer Godden.
I did like this. Almost it was the house that was the narrator. A family had a 99 year lease on a house. It was up. Only the old general was alive. He mused - but time was fluid, so the plot unfolded strangely.
A novel-length poem. Jumping from one voice to another, leaving confusion and doubt. Totally without meaning. One of the few books I would throw away
I love Rumor Godden. Her stories are so heartfelt and the literary structure on this book seems very modern to me. Once I start one, I can't put it down. Highly recommended.
This is so lovely; the story of a London house and the family who lived there, wrapped together quite beautifully.The author explained what she did far better than I ever could.“This novel was the first in which I used a theme that has always intrigued me, Dunne’s Experiment With Time, i.e., that time is not consecutive, divided into past, present and future, but that these are all co-existent if only we could see it: if you are in a boat on a river you can only see the stretch on which your boat is travelling – a picnic party on the bank perhaps: a kingfisher diving.
"In me you exist," says the house. That's a Rumer Godden sentence, and I'm susceptible to them. This is about a house and a family and the passing years. Godden's China Court is about exactly the same thing and I correctly surmised that China Court was the second attempt and the more successful one. The book was important enough to her that she wrote it twice. Neither of them are my favourite Godden book, but there is something distinctively Godden about them all the same. I think she likes peo
Godden's China Court is about exactly the same thing and I correctly surmised that China Court was the second attempt and the more successful one.
I liked the stuff about the house and time about as well as I liked it in China Court but the characters here are not really committed to.
There was more narrative momentum too in China Court, I found, though the sense of everyone living at once is the same.
It is indeed worth doing again, this book, worth doing again better - not that there isn't that fly in the ointment of the slap in the face in China Court.
The title of the edition I read, a 1976 reprint of the novel that was first published in 1945, is just A Fugue in Time: the “take three tenses” part comes from a grammar lesson Selina is giving her little brother Roly but also applies to the novel’s focus on past, present, and future of 99 Wiltshire Place, London.
While the perspective is mostly that of Roland / Roly / Rollo / Rolls, we also experience the lives of the women: Griselda as a young wife who hasn’t realized how constraining marriage and children will be, her unmarried daughter Selina, Lark, adopted by John after his wife dies giving birth to Roly, and Grizel, who has choices none of the others had.
This is Rumer Godden's sixth book-length work, published in 1945.
It is the story of a house, a fine house, and the Dane family who has lived there for generations.
The house is full of memories, and maybe something more than memory.
The book begins with this sentence.
"The house, it seems, is more important than the characters." But the characters---the Danes---are wonderfully drawn.
Here we see one of her common themes: the world turns, time marches on, and we are helpless to stop it.
At the same time, we are transformed by change, often in unexpected ways.I loved this book.
It is a long time since I read one of Rumer Godden's novels, but as soon as I started this one I was back in the place she always takes me.
I don't know how she does it, but there is a sense of the mystical, and an otherworldliness.
Maybe it is the "collision of England and India" as her writing has been described.This was a lovely little story, we move back and forwards in time as a family's history takes shape.
Once the characters are introduced it is easier to keep track of where the author is going, but this adds to the charm of the book.
Not sure where I read that this was a great book … I am glad I found it to read. This particular copy was the Little, Brown and Company 1945 version from the Valdez Library … Complete with the "Council on Books in Wartime" blurb. I will ponder why this book is considered weapons in the war of ideasI enjoyed the style and the story. Not to mention the characters including the house's Fugue.
I'm not quite sure what to think about this book. At first I found the time slips really difficult, but the more I read the more I liked it. The way the whole family history is revealed is very clever. Not my most favourite Rumer Godden book, but certainly worth reading and maybe deserves a second go.
Four stars is mostly based on the fact that Rumer Godden wrote this. It isn't my favorite novel that she wrote, but her writing style, word choice and the way she crafts a story earn four stars from me.
There were times when I would have rated this book lower than four stars. The form is experimental, but it is an interesting experiment, and most of the time it works. The beauty of language and acute observation of Rumer Godden, as always, carries it through. Well worth reading.
Strange book, that slips from past to 1945 present in each scene. A little old fashioned but beautifully written and very touching. Unique.
An old book I found in a little free library. Kind of an interesting tale of a couple of generations in an old house, using the house itself as a canvas to paint the story.
