https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177194.Thunderball
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: James Bond fights a non-political criminal multinational, while scenes and concepts from past adventures are reused.
Now this is a great Bond story!First published in 1961, this was the 9th Bond novel for Ian Fleming and is a rip roaring good time for fans.This has it all:Criminal villain mastermind.
While Fleming has come up with several great villains before, we are finally introduced to THE criminal, Blofeld, the Number 1 of SPECTRE – and who was without a doubt the template for Austin Powers parody Dr. Evil.
spy, SPECTRE is rolling the dice on a big and dastardly plan and its up to our hero to save the day.Action.
The underwater scenes are cool and the villains were superbly cast and performed.
SPECTRE gets hold of an atomic bomb and threatens to detonate it in a major city if he doesn't receive £100,000,000.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE:1.) Bond calling women "bitch" all the time.
(hide spoiler)]4.) Old James Bond Classics: Bond saving a young woman from getting run over with a car by executing "a passable Veronica;" Bond hitting on his nurses when he's in the clinic; Bond fighting people underwater (this is a favorite of Fleming's); Bond going on and on about how much he loves his car; Bond vs.
This is important, since it elevates the story above the zany pop culture status of the films.
I believe it is her favourite, just edging out Live and Let Die, which I also read on her recommendation previously.Thunderball does contain all the ingredients we have come to expect: exotic location – check, undersea adventuring – check, beautiful Italian girl with catchy name – check, memorable bad guy – check, atomic bombs – check… I could go on, but I think you get the idea.
This novel also has the distinction of being the one to introduce Blofeld and Spectre, so its importance in the Bond canon is cemented.If you’re a Bond fan, you certainly have read this by now.
It took reading the book twice - most recently as part of the Bond Buddy Read with Troy - to take in that Fleming describes SPECTRE as a well-functioning corporation, to recognise that he set up Blofeld as this puppeteer that pulls the strings behind the scenes rather than engaging with Bond one on one (even tho this will come later in the series).What was interesting on this latest read was how ridiculous the whole premise of the threat of nuclear missiles being stolen is in the context of the ongoing Cold War at the time the book is set.
Rating: 4* of fiveI am viewing the Bond films on Amazon Prime.
As a result, this film was made again in 1983 by the title Never Say Never Again, Sean Connery's swansong as Bond.
That was a better film.This one also has a crap theme song sung by Tom Jones.
Yakity blah blah, standard Bond stuff.What elevates this silly romper-room antic mess into four-star territory is the sheer verve and the evident glee with which all involved go after the action.
C'mon...but gosh was this fun.Doesn't hurt one little bit that Connery wore racy bathing suits for quite a lot of the film.
Thundball - the Bond book so good it was made into two movies, both of which starred Sean Connery.
Onto the story; Bond has been Bonding it up so M decides to send him to a health farm called Scrublands; whilst there he encounters a strange man named Count Lippi who is a tong member.
When he returns to London and improved health he is called into the office only to learn that a sinister organization has stolen two (2) atomic bombs and are demanding a ransom.
This book has convincing action, fascinating diving sequences (so much better than golf), a damsel in distress and a nuclear submarine.
James is in poor shape it seems, 60 cigarettes a day (think of that today...where'd he even find a place to smoke that often?) do not keep the doctor away, oh and he drinks a lot to.
And of course as seems to happen each time James goes away to rest, someone tries to kill him.
This one is no less exciting, smothered in cold war paranoia we get stolen nukes here with the US and UK trying to get them away from SPECTRE (and of course the evil Ernst Stavro Blofeld).
Bond is the sort of character who will toss a woman into bed first and then tell the woman bad news afterwards ((view spoiler)[like the fact that her brother is dead (hide spoiler)]).
I had a hard time being entertained by either the book or the movie.
I'm happy to say that in the book anyway (I can't remember the movie well enough to comment on this part), M is well ahead of his times, telling Bond about the dangers of medications and processed foods:"All drugs are harmful to the system.
I think that it's this reason that makes him seem so seamless as he describes the in depth operations of what Bond is doing on his missions, and I also think it's this reason why no other predecessor to Mr. Fleming has come near being able to write as good of a Bond novel.
THUNDERBALL (The Adventures of James Bond) - IAN FLEMING - Published by the FIRST EDITION LIBRARY HARDCOVER (FEL) 1990 - REPLICA OF 1961 ISSUE. Printed in Great Britain. FEL with Slipcase Measures 9.13" X 6.57 x 1.11". FEL Books are - EXACT, as in, same size, same type, same binding and same dust jacket as the original. Exact replicas of the First Editions right down to the first critic's comments printed on jacket flap. Printed on acid-neutral paper, cloth covers and sewn bindings.
As part of Operation Thunderball, James Bond is tapped to gather intelligence in the Bahamas where the plane might have gone down.I watched the movie Thunderball several times during the James Bond Wednesdays on TBS of my youth.
Nassau and the undersea world are featured as backdrops for Bond's tracking down of Emilio Largo, SPECTRE operative, via his mistress, Domino Vitelli.
By far the best elements of the story are Bond's uncertainty about his hunches and seeing his intelligence gathering, which is mostly guesswork all the way up to the satisfying end.
It seems that something I can look forward to in these later Bond books is the character becoming middle aged and reactionary.Despite a plot which would still work in a contemporary setting (terrorist group steals nuclear weapons) this is a very mechanical novel.
Famously ‘Thunderball’ was based on a screen treatment (which caused Fleming, and the makers of the Bond films, lots of legal problems later on) and this book does feel like a novelisation of a film which hadn’t yet been made.
I rewatched the Sean Connery film after finishing this and OMG, the book is soooo much better!! As I have mentioned in my reviews of some of the previous Bond books, the character in Fleming's original books is much more 3-dimensional and to my mind at least, more interesting.The plot of the movie has only parts of the plot from the book & makes much less sense.
In other words, Fleming (at least in this book) has a tendency to do block-description, paragraphs upon paragraphs of description, and that tends to bore me and stifle my imagination as a reader; it’s telling me too much and not leaving it up to me to paint the picture; it’s trying to paint a picture so detailed, I forget what I’m even looking at.But because Bond is such an established character in the minds of all those who know him, to actually go back and read the Fleming books, I think, is an illuminating experience.
One of Bond's more remarkable traits in the movies is his ability to use women as a means to an end without much care as to their well-being.
But here, in the book, he just sounds like any guy who's too caught up in puppy love.I suppose I'm being hard on Fleming/Bond, but since he is the poster-child of the tough-guy super-spy, I suppose he can take it.As for the plot, it is much closer to the movie than I expected it to be.
I am not criticizing Fleming's Bond in the above review, only making observations on the differences between the book and the movie.
I don’t know if there was a health trend going on at the time of publication (1961) or if this was some kind of response to readers/critics of the series up to this point.
It’s the first introduction to SPECTRE which, in the words of Felix Leiter is “a bunch of really big-time hoodlums – ex operators of SMERSH, the Mafia, the Gestapo – all the big outfits.” It’s also the first time we meet Ernst Blofeld and although we get a lot of description from his point of view, Bond doesn’t actually meet or interact with him in this novel.
I’ve noticed a positive trend which should be of some comfort to critics of earlier Bond novels.
It started off with an interesting premise with Bond being sent away to become healthier.
The book picks up near the end in a climax which is almost worth the tedium of the 100 pages before it, but this book also lacks the almost supernatural characterization of the villain.
Many, many pages are given over to just Bond and Leiter complaining (mostly about food) and sort of endlessly conjecturing about their situation.
He's a caricature of his previous self, and has far too much "screentime," making this more of a buddy picture.Third, Bond is lost in the climax.
Very movie-ish, and ultimately as boring as the final reel of the EON film itself.
I finished this one a while back, but unlike some others, it has stayed with me.As a fan of the Bond films since childhood, when I started reading the Fleming books it was very hard to let go of the movie Bonds at first - very hard not to superimpose the look, feel, and even the music of the films onto books mostly written long before the first film.
These sequences are also some of the best writing I've seen from Fleming so far.By today's standards the Bond books are light on body count and gore, and written in a style that is either minimalist or dull, depending on your point of view.
THUNDERBALL is my favorite of the four I've re-read so far, and I should note that I didn't expect this to be the case at the outset: Not more than five pages in, M., the head of MI6, launches into an extremely weird rant on wheat germ and the inferiority of processed foods -- an odd start indeed for a spy thriller.
(Good thing, too, as it unfolded in front of the reader's eyes, so it'd be tedious for our hero to have to start so far behind us and catch up.) Then it's just a matter of hanging around the principals until something happens.
* The ninth Bond book.* Fifth appearance of Leiter, first appearance of Blofeld.* Fleming's back in top form (after the disappointment of Goldfinger) in this, the novel that introduces Blofeld and SPECTRE (though Bond doesn't get to go after Blofeld here and doesn't even know he exists).* High stakes--two stolen atomic warheads--and a solid plot that begins on an amusing tangent as Bond is forced by M to spend a couple of weeks in a sort of health spa to clean out his system.* Exciting climax, and one of those that shows that the Bond of the books isn't quite the superman he often appears to be in the movies.* Controversial, in the sense that it began as an idea for a film, with other writers involved.
Noticing these Bond books stopped getting good after Goldfinger.
This one started out good, but Then I lost a little interested afterwords.
The Spy Who Loved Me (the one I'm on now) isn't any better either.The main reason I liked this one though is threw out the book we begin to realize that Bond is a human.
He has his flaws as every good character should have in a book.
Bond smokes and drinks too much.
Plus you never hear in the film that his drinking is a flaw like in the books.
Almost as much fun as watching the Sean Connery movie (not the remake, tyvm).
A good spy novel as all James Bond books are. They seem to lack the tension and complexities of the films but make up for that in the easy to follow and realistic plot and action. The books seem much more plausible than the films. The one thing that I don't like about the books is the obvious obnoxious attitude of Bond to women. He is always portrayed as a player and ladies man, but in the book it comes across as a real feeling of superiority and disdain. Not nice characteristics in a hero.
Somehow felt slighter than the previous stories. Still good Bond action.
Other than that, the 9th novel in Ian Fleming's James Bond series, Thunderball, is the usual craftsmanlike product in the series.I would probably have liked to have more background about SPECTRE, the SPecial Executive for Counter-intelligence, Terrorism, Revenge and Extortion, and its leader, Ernst Stavro Blofeld.
That would have taken some of the wind out of James Bond's sails, but it would have provided a more useful background to the nuclear extortion plot that the organization is planning.There is a lot of blub blub action, and another attractive Bond heroine in Domino Vitale (nee Petacchi).
As a true fan of all things Bond, I've seen the movie Thunderball exactly 63 times.
As for reading Bond novels, Thunderball was only my 2nd - I read Carte Blanche (By Jeffery Deaver) late last year.
In reading this Thunderball by Ian Fleming, I was able to track along the story very well as the movie follows the novel to a great extent.
However, there were many things about the novel that were perhaps more interesting than the movie.
BOTTOM LINE: this was a fun read and if you're a fan of Bond, a must read.
I can think of no higher praise for this book than to say that I made it almost to the end before I realized that I had seen the Bond movie "based" on this book.
It was actually the exact Bond movie that made me swear off all Bond movies as pure seventies stupidity.I'm only mentioning the movie to emphasize how it has nothing to do with the book whatsoever, and then move on.Fleming writes some ripping good yarns.
The characters are not particularly believable but achingly interesting, and Fleming has a rare gift for making even ordinary interactions seem fraught with danger.
I do believe that I may read all the James Bond novels.
Thunderball and Moonraker represent, for me, the quintessential James Bond novels and Thunderball may be the masterpiece of the entire series.
Even if you've never seen a James Bond movie or read an Ian Fleming novel, Thunderball's story should seem familiar to you: a shady terrorist organization hijacks two nuclear bombs in order to hold the world ransom and it's up to James Bond to foil their evil plans!
There's so much about this novel to love and it contains so many classic James Bond elements that I couldn't help but feel nostalgic despite having never read it before.
This Bond novel is a solid effort, perhaps with greater technical detail than others, resulting in some relatively dry passages.
And to me, this one is a bit darker than the other 8 Bond novels (I'm reading them in order).
One could argue that Fleming supplied only his and Bond's name given that this novel feels different than the rest.
This book isn't up there with "Moonraker" or "From Russia With Love" but is far better than "Diamonds are Forever," for example.
So, for me, I'm on to the next one, "The Spy Who Loved Me," in which Fleming is the only writer credited.
