https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44522.Over_to_You
The experience of the old pilot was conveyed well in the character's thoughts, especially in his last line of the story, "Why don't you relax a bit?".An African Story is one of the most weirdly disturbing stories I've ever read.
It's that creepy but sucking you in story but the ending was satisfying and upped my rating.Madamme Rosette is where Dahl plots these pilots who execute a seemingly simple plan to free these girls being kept by Madamme Rosette.
I feel the topic of discussion of women's body weight, shaking of body parts could've been left out as it did nothing for the story except decrease its rating.Katina was really good.
The first is undoubtedly from Dahl's direct experience, the second can't possibly be but is especially haunting.'They Shall Not Grow Old' is the extraordinary tale of a pilot who inexplicably disappeared for two days without noticing himself that the time had passed.'Katina' tells of a shell-shocked young Greek girl who the pilots save and befriend during a battle over Athens.
Her hatred of the Germans is such that she leaves the trenches to shake her little fists at them during air raids, with tragic consequences.
В полет към теб, в полет към живота или смъртта: http://knigolandia.info/book-review/v...Не може да се каже, че съм фен на детските книги, заради които Роалд Дал има толкова много фенове – все се каня да попрочета някоя от тях, но след като преди време злослучих на “Семейство Тъпашки”, така и си останах с намерението.
Отчитам, че това е грешка, ще я поправя рано или късно.
Но да се докосна до разказите му “за възрастни” си струваше – Дал е прекрасен разказвач, има деликатно умение да предава емоция и да открива красивото и в най-грозните времена, а на места ми напомняше на любимия ми Ромен Гари.CIELA Bookshttp://knigolandia.info/book-review/v...
Se trata, tal vez, del libro de Dahl que menos huella me ha dejado. Reúne relatos con la experiencia del autor como piloto en la Segunda Guerra Mundial. Tiene, eso sí, el sello de Dahl, y satisfará a los que han hecho de ese escritor un fetiche. Entiendo que se tratará de las primeras experiencias del joven autor en el campo de la literatura, pues sufrió un accidente y, ya en el hospital, comenzó a escribir cuentos de guerra para revistas.
Interesting to see where Dahl started out as a writer. A general melancholy runs through the stories , a sadness at the waste of life or dealing with causing or watching death.A couole of the stories ate clearly propaganda pieces with the death of a child or hero pilot at the hands of the evil german. Definotely a collection of uts time but all the more interesting for it. Most were written in the midst of war and that tension is obvious.Worth a read for curiosity and a feel of history
The mamba and the cow - astounding!
Een bundel korte verhalen van een groot schrijver.
Voornamelijk door het thema doorheen het boek: oorlogsvliegers, en dan niet de spannende heldenverhalen, maar de belichting van de keerzijde van de medaille: het lijden, sterven, verlies,...
Prettige verhalen zijn het niet, dikwijls kan je alleen verder lezen met een krop in de keel, soms lijkt het toch een positief verhaal te worden maar kent dan een gruwelijk (maar niet zoals in horror) einde.Doordat het korte verhalen zijn, kon ik het wegleggen en nadien terug oppakken zoadt ik er na enkele dagen toch door geraakte.
Goed geschreven door een totaal andere Roald Dahl maar leuk om lezen is anders.
okay, so actually this one doesn't have the focus on the pilot but it's still tense and good!#3 "Piece of Cake" -- an overconfident pilot has his plane catch on fire, pilot falls into emotional shock, time slows way down and he finds himself struggling to be able to move to free himself from the flames --- This one had a scene that I found a bit of dark humor in: When someone comes to the pilot's aide, the pilot feels pain in his nose and asks what's wrong with it, to which the newcomer replies, "It actually doesn't seem to be there very much." I probably shouldn't have found that bit funny but the polite tone used to notify someone that a prominent part of their face appears to have left the building just tickled me.
Here we see yet another side of Dahl showcased, and as could be expected, it's brilliant through and through. Certainly some of my favourite work of one of my favourite writers. On a sidenote, I'd just like to say that "Katina" in particular is a fantastic story and deserves special mention.
I found the stories poignant and rather melancholy, but that is to be expected as they were concerning pilots in the RAF during WW2.
Il se lance alors dans une carrière de noveliste produisant des œuvres provocatrices et terriblement drôle telles que Mon oncle Oswald ou encore La grande entourloupe.Ce n’est que plus tard, alors que marqué par la mort de sa femme, et devant prendre en main seul l’éducation de ses enfants, qu’il se lance dans la littérature pour la jeunesse avec les romans qui feront sa renommées : Charlie et la chocolaterie, Le bon gros géant, Sacrées Sorcières, Mathilda, James et la grosse pêche, etc.Si vous avez envie de découvrir les premiers balbutiements de l’auteur, il est essentiel de lire le recueil de nouvelles A tire-d’aile, compilation de texte autour des thèmes de la guerre et de l’aviation.
even then
Suhteeni Roald Dahliin on perustunut käytännössä hänen riemukkaisiin lastenkirjoihinsa, ja muutamaa hätäisesti lukemaani novellia lukuun ottamatta en ole hänen aikuisille suunnattuun tuotantoonsa tutustunut. Ennen kuin nyt.Dahlin "Over to You: Ten Stories of Flyers and Flying" (Penguin, 2011)sisältää kymmenen lyhyenlaista novellia, jotka käsittelevät tavalla tai toisella ilmailua. Tarinat sijoittuvat usein toiseen maailmansotaan, ja ymmärtääkseni niiden tausta on myös hävittäjälentäjänä toimineen kirjailijan omissa kokemuksissa.Novellien sävy on enimmäkseen tummanpuhuva, ja paikoitellen hyvinkin riipaiseva. Kuolema tai ainakin sen pelko ovat alituiseen läsnä.Onnistunut kokoelma.

I read Roald Dahl as a child...and even now, years on, he hasn't let me down. You find layers after layers of new meaning and nuance in his writing each time you come back to it, like coming back to a home that is even better. A lovely book of short stories at times sad, others sharp, but always wicked - wickedly human and biting and wonderful.
The book has been entirely dedicated to pilots engaged in the World War, their flying experiences, their ordeals, their pleasures and their spirits. It has 10 chapters, each with a different storyline. Atleast 7 chapters have either abrupt endings, vague flying experiences with no logical explanations; or they have a storyline that is too stretched.
It was a great surprise for me to find this author many years later on shelves with books for children.Over to you - already the title is quite ambiguous - I wonder what it means to other readers.I see it as a routine in military radio communication - when each person ending his/her message says - over.Military communication, right, the book is based on author's experience as RAF pilot during II World War. Roald Dahl serves in Africa, Middle East and Greece.
Some stories are shocking, but I do not think author's intention was to shock the readers.
I found these stories immensely interesting and entertaining, especially learning the life of RAF pilots during WWII.
Dahl's descriptive style is spare, but effective and every story had a punch.
What especially interested me were the paranormal experiences of the pilots.
Having grown up in an Air Force family, I had heard stories from pilots who "saw" various things that they reported - a hand in the sky, for example.
Dahl based these stories on his own experiences as a fighter pilot in the RAF, so I tended to believe the paranormal stories were actually experienced or reported to him.
This early collection of Roald Dahl works was dark.
Some of the stories are based on first or second-hand experiences, while others are entirely fictionalized (all are fictional).
But reading these definitely gives you a sense of the darkness Dahl experienced as a fighter pilot, and it surely got him started on his later short stories, a lot of which are dark as well.
Even some of his children's stories are a bit dark.
I am thankful someone asked him to write this - it gave me a glimpse into his worries and his fears.I listened to the audio version, and Prunella Scales was much more interesting to listen to than Timothy West.
“Продължих да стоя и да се взирам в сърцевината на огъня, откъдето бликаха алените пламъци и наситената, нажежена до бяло топлина. Постепенно тяхната яркост се разсея, стана мека и жълтеникава като слънчева светлина и през нея, някъде отвъд, изникна образът на малко момиче, застанало насред полето, с озарени от слънцето коси. То вдигна глава към небето, което бе ясно и синьо, без нито едно облаче, а после се обърна и погледна към мен - и тогава видях, че предницата на бялата му басмяна рокля е обагрена в наситено червено... цвета на кръвта.”
Tales of derring-do during his days as a Spitfire pilot, from the master storyteller Roald Dahl.At this time of year I sometimes look up at the sky over Kent and think how close we came during the Battle of Britain. This short, humorous read captures the spirit of humble bravery and youthful high-jinks, particularly the story of liberating a brothel full of prostitutes in Cairo.But it's also a narrative of lives, and limbs lost.
A brilliant read from the author who brought us our beloved childhood books. "Over To You" is a collection of stories based on Roald Dahl's experiences as a fighter pilot in WWII, before he turned writer and and gave us some memorable tales growing up. This is not just about history and facts, but gives us a glimpse into the mind of a fighter pilot during war.
Differs a little bit from Dahl's typical surrealist & outerworldly writing style but it is part of his earlier work, after all. An interesting view of World War Two and the life of a fighter pilot that is an easy and fun read.
The mood of this book was a little too sad for me.
A good, enjoyable read. A bit of an eye opener regarding the harsh realities of war.
Very neat to see Dahl's surreal tall tale style and even a bit of his kid's book whimsy applied to the grit of the war story genre.
Love this so much, also, one of the stories are extremely similar to a small part of “Porco Rosso” by Ghibli.
Audiobook - Some interesting Tales concerning WW2 fighter pilots
Started well, dragged a bit
Dahl really proves that it's possible to be an exceptional children's book author, yet also write serious stories also.
This book is a collection of war stories, but ones unlike others told.
These are the stories of the countless thousands who never returned home, or those that did, without fanfare or acclaim - some would argue the real heroes.
Being inside the mind of someone who is fighting a losing battle, rising everyday knowing that death awaits, whether their own, their friend's or their enemy's is something none of us could imagine, yet Dahl is able to put us there, facing the terror, the acceptance, the fight for survival at all costs.
