https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73860.Dibs_in_Search_of_Self
this specific therapeutic moment, the time when the session is over, is an extremely important one, crucial really, and i think that in a good therapeutic couple the loss is felt by both therapist and patient.
the way in which axline makes room for dibs is truly wonderful and the most shining lesson of this small book.
i think that what dibs feels, what blows him away, what makes him giddy with joy, is the loving space, the bright presence, the full emptiness he experiences with his miss A.
It is totally devoid of commentary or technique or explanation as to why Dibs' personality radically shifts and changes in 6 months (it was later explained that this probably took place over years, which just served to confuse me-- why pretend that it took six months?).
Then, something in therapy helped him to change his ways and conform to his parents expectations (ironic since what they seem to be trying to do is get him to express and accept himself)- and so Dibs submits and his parents begin to love him and everyone lives happily ever after-- but how could Dibs not see or be plagued by the fact that his parents' love was clearly conditional and precarious?
One of the earliest case studies of autism. However, it's very dated and, at this point, I think it may do more harm than good. Axline subscribed to the then-prevalent theory that autism was caused by emotionally distant parents, something that has proven to be false. This is useful in the sense that it shows the development of the field of child psychology, but no parent of an autistic child, or person trying to understand the causes of autism, would benefit from it.
This is the book that inspired my career choice, and later influenced my specialization as a play therapist/social worker, along with "Play Therapy" by Garry Landreth.This is a beautiful story of a child who needed unconditional positive regard and a non-judgmental environment where he was allowed to call the shots in order to heal.Read this, and you'll know exactly what it's like to be one of my child clients in a play therapy session.
I have read this over and over and I will definitely read it again. It's a true story written by a therapist about a little boy who turns out to be autistic but this was when autism was a little known condition. I can't really say much more about it because I'll end up sounding American and all that jazz!! Just read it!
ya'll, if you are going to come up with a fake name to protect this kid's identity, can you come up with something better than "Dibs"? like, what are you smoking?sometimes Dibs want to throw paint on the floor and so he does that. sometimes Dibs wants to spray water everywhere and he definitely does that, on like ten different pages. often Dibs wants to kill his mom and dad but he doesn't do that because that is not what people do in uplifting psychological narratives.
All the sessions are held at Miss A’s place, where the playroom is fully equipped with interesting materials, and it is always Dibs that decides what to do with these.
does not command or instruct him to do anything, the only exception being that at the end of the hour-long session Dibs must be prepared to stop the play and be collected by his mother.The only time Miss A.
Firstly, the therapy works very rapidly and very well, and I felt it slotted too nearly into the therapist's theories and plans.
For example, when Dibs thinks about God, he says, "But Papa and Mama are not God-believing people and so I am not.
But at the beginning of the book, Dibs doesn't respond verbally, is quickly overwhelmed and lashes out at people, and, while clearly very smart, cannot control his emotions.
I also felt that Axline expects an awful lot of emotional maturity from a five-year-old.
It is a story with little hope, but within in the pages is found, a life and a sense of self.
It was wonderful to watch this scared little boy grow up and fight his enemies.
As we said we wanted it.and a two other favorites: "...
I found out that I am not unhappy when I feel love.
Now I am big and strong and not afraid."Perhaps there is more understanding and beauty in life when the glaring sunshine is softened by the patterns of shadows.
experience that never disappoints or saddens or stirs up feeling is a bland experience with little challenge or variation in color.
The little boy in this book, Dibs, clearly was autistic, although they kept saying he was retarded.
Dibs reminded me of my autistic son who has demonstrated several similar or identical behaviors.
Dibs was emotionally abused by his parents.
Despite their wealth and snobbery I give them the benefit of the doubt because I have been overwhelmed before and I KNOW a thing or two about autism.
Setting aside judgement of the parents, I want to say that reading about their abuse and Dibs' response is not always easy.
Those not affected by autism may not find this book worth their while, but I found it so.
Axline, the author said that, he was that boy that she ever met in the classroom who could teach her what it means to be a complete person.My first impression when I looked at this book was it's a story about a boy who who has a mental problem.
Dibs is about the experience of a little boy that has been justified as mentally retarded by his parents.
And through psychoterapy and love , he did.From this story, I learnt from Miss A, who has devoted her energy and knowledge to help Dibs find himself, on see people and everything surround us in different perspectives.I feel glad to had an opportunity to read this moving story.
I learned about one form of play therapy through responsive questioning. I appreciated that the therapist gave Dibs the room to discover himself and grow to understand and accept his surroundings and environment rather than pushing him towards a particular conclusion. His mothers transformation was also fascinating. I'm not sure how much the reader doesn't know about the extent of the therapy, but it seems like Dibs' mom found herself at the same time.
I loved this book when I read it as an undergraduate, many years ago. I thought the story was captivating, and it provides insight into the development of a counseling relationship longitudinally. For anyone who works with young children, and particularly counselors/therapists, it is a very useful look at how such an experience might work in real life.
A wonderful story of transformation. I learned of how to talk to children in a way that allows them to explore their own complex feelings and of the importance of simple, unstructured play and how revealing it can be.
Gracias a este libro re afirmé mis deseos de ser terapeuta infantil.El trabajo que hace Axline es maravilloso.
Through her innovative child-therapy paradigm called "Play Therapy", Dr. Axline provides Dibs with the opportunity to get in touch with his innermost self, and helps him unlock his fear, anger, resentment, sadness and utter loneliness.
But I wish I were a child-therapist, for I was clueless on how to properly respond to him except by showing my concern and interest in his conversation.Dr. Axline's pioneering work in Play Therapy has been quite an eye-opener to me.
Education and directed learning are of course important, but Dr. Axline's therapy demonstrates that uninhibited, judgment-free expression helps children get more in-tune with themselves, and it is vital for kids to have such an opportunity every once in a while.
The only thing I would add is that Dibs, the client in the case study, came from a wealthy background where he had access to resources like therapy as well as books/toys/technology.
This case study illustrates child neglect within the context of wealthy professional parents, whereas many children from low-income and working class families may feel neglected due to lack of access to resources (e.g. single parent who works full-time, few books and toys at home, etc.) I’m curious about case studies that touch on issues related to SES.
However, I enjoyed this book and would still recommend it to others who are interested in child and play therapy.
I picked this book up at a conference several years ago and it sat on my shelf until it was recommended by a therapist who trained me in Sandtray.
This is a very interesting account of Axline's experience doing play therapy with a 5 year old boy and was a quick read.
It details all of their sessions and really gives a clear look at Axline's technique of play therapy, which I have already found helpful with my own clients.
This book would be helpful for any therapist considering their role in the therapeutic process.
Además, me tincó que fuera un caso viejo, innovador en su época, publicado apenas en 1964,Pero me aburrió.
Lo encontré tan prototipo que Incluso googleé pensando que podría ser un caso inventado, como lo fue el tal testimonio de juventud desordenada en "El diario de Alicia", cosas que a veces se escriben para "dar conciencia", sin importarle al autor si hay que manipular la verdad para llegar a eso.Pero no.
Y pucha, ni siquiera ahí me gustó.Puede que me haya perdido de algo, en todo caso, porque tiene muy buenas críticas.
Virginia Axline is another play therapy pioneer who adopted the non-directive methods of play and guided herself from the phenomenological personality theories of Carl Rogers.When you first read this book, you get this sense that as a therapist or one at heart, your work would really be valid and that it would really make a difference.
Sometimes a very romantic angle to view things, but reading it a second time would actually make you look at things in different ways and perhaps much more realistic manners.
Working in the psychology arena, it has been my experience that human beings take a long time in therapy in order to resolve issues such as Dibs'.
A number of months ago, a friend of mine handed me this book and told me to read it.
No matter what is going on he is always on the outside.Axline is put in contact with his parents and takes Dibs into her care.
Using play therapy, Dibs begin to break down the walls that keep him so isolated from the rest of the world.
I keep catching myself talking to people like Axline talks to Dibs!I never thought that I would love this book but I did.
Dibs' response to play therapy, and the results, seemed almost too good to be true -- that's how beautiful and amazing they were.
I was most struck by how empowered Dibs felt in the play therapy room and by how little of herself the therapist put into their conversations and interactions.
She did very little but reflect back to Dibs exactly what he was saying, with no judgment, no commentary, and no attempt to make Dibs feel better.
And he did, with remarkable results.On a side note, I was envious of the Kindergarten that Dibs attended.
The book portrays very well what a safe and trustworthy environment can do for the unraveling of a person, be it an adult or a child.
It tells us that no matter what material possessions you give a child, or a grown person for that matter, if he or she is starved of love, true growth can never happen.
The book tells us how, if psychotherapy and love changed a child, and moved his parents to change as well, we need not feel disheartened in the presence of family dysfunction.
There is a lot we can do for the child just by providing an environment where he can safely and freely be himself.
This book sat on the bookshelf at home when I was a kid and I read it a few times.
It's about a form of play therapy meant to assist emotionally troubled children.
The kid she describes (and gives the very weird alias "Dibs") is the child of affluent but apparently clueless and emotionally distant parents.
The therapy seems to have a fairly dramatic effect on him in a short period of time (the length of a school year).
It's satisfying in a way that the therapy I'm aware of is not: Dibs experiences beneficial changes that last.
As educators, you must unlock the door of ignorance and prejudice and meanness.”Just as Dibs was aware, to a degree, what Miss A was attempting to do I think it's ok that those whom we are in a pastoral encounter with know that we are there to see the person empowered and dignified through our listening process and reflection.Staying out of the Karpman Drama Triangle of drama is one of the most important things to do as a pastoral carer.
We must avoid letting the other person shirk responsibility for their own lives and decision-making.If pastoral encounters occur with children it is important to have respect for their parents or supervisors.
This book was read for the general course entitled "Human Growth and Development".
It was taught by a physician-psychiatrist, Dr. Bell, employing the standard textbook on the subject commonly used, he claimed, in medical schools as well as a number of supplementary books and articles of which Dibs in Search of Self was one.Axline's book is basically a therapeutic narrative and, so, read very quickly.
The major impression left by reading it was that "autism" may be a very common misdiagnosis--at least in any sense that it cannot be overcome by therapeutic attention.

This is a book for graduate students in child psychology. Everyone else will be bored to death by this incredibly slow, meandering account of a child psychologist discovering a child with Autism and trying to develop a connection with him to help him connect with the world. 50% of the book is about what Dibs plays with in her playroom. Won't assign this to College Now students ever again. But if you are a budding child psychologist then it's a great read.
I found this interesting and reminiscent of case studies I read whilst studying linguistics but it lacked any commentary and was dated in the language used. I assume Dibs was autistic but i needed to understand more about how a diagnosis was made. The transformation all seems a little too miraculous without a commentary,
Having read this at an early age, it was very educational regarding the self. I have not forgotten it - it left quite an impression on me. May read it again to see what I find in it now that I'm older!
