https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/209577.Buddha_Vol_1
It's true that one could possibly read the entire collection - and a handsome collection it is - in a day (at perhaps two hours per volume), but I didn't feel compelled to rush things.In Buddha, Tezuka presents a curious blend of themes and styles.
And a similar version of the life of Mohammed would end in bombs, death threats, and ambassadors demanding apologies.Because the thing is: Tezuka's tale is as irreverent as it is reverrent.He clearly thinks highly of Buddha and his teachings.
And the fact that Buddha isn't even born until the end of the first volume.
This is a variegated and unique interpretation against the historical one we are familiar with, with completely fictional characters and accords, so far at least.
So far, Buddha has just made his appearance in the story, and I am reserving my opinions to further installments.
And the comic cleverly distracts readers off this morbidness and pain with lively drawings, lovable characters and occasional humour.
It is stupidly funny at times, I spilled my coffee at a scene where a sixth century BC Doctor made his appearance with stethoscope and a lab coat.One minor issue with this issue though, the characters kinda look like Astroboy.
I thought reading a book, or the first volume anyway of a series, celebrating and informing readers of the life of the Buddha, Siddhartha Gautama, would leave me somewhat more knowledgeable about the guy and the religion.
This first volume at least is a rollicking adventure set in “ancient times” written and drawn by a master comics storyteller who’s clearly having fun with the material and who knows when to scale back the ribaldry and bombast to emphasise important points about the story of the Buddha.
After a long time I've found a book that has hooked me from the start.It also raises many philosophical questions on life.
But, having recently watched PBS's documentary about the life of Buddha, and having read several other books by Tezuka since then, I figured it was time to revisit the series.
While these stories feel true to teachings of Buddha, it's my understanding that most of them are not historical Buddhist stories, but instead are the inventions of Tezuka creatively and effectively intertwined with the tale of Buddha's life.It's also worth pointing out that, despite the subject matter, this is not a self-serious book by any regards.
I tried but I couldn't like this manga. The storytelling feels flat for me. There are some recurring (POV? fictional?) characters in this manga, but I don't feel they give additional value for the story, and some of their plots are inconclusive.
Anime Buddha with no expressions spared... what next?
I read this book several years ago, I confess, not a whit out if any interest in Manga.
I'd read a scant few "manga" at the time & was thinking: why do all these books seem suspiciously similar to each other down to how the characters were drawn, their roles and (most) surprising, even most of the plot lines!
My true purpose for coming to the work of Tezuka had been to learn much more about the life of the Buddha.
Through 11 beautiifully illustrated, and lovingly written volumes, I was able to explore the wonder that was the life the Buddha chose to live.
The mix of goofy/cartoony (hey, manga for kids!) and serious subjects/scenes, exquisitely drawn, in contrast) in Barefoot Gen is at the heart of the nature of Tezuka's more serious work, and (the eight volume) Buddha is considered by most to be his masterwork, his magnum opus.Tezuka, the grandfather of manga, is one place to start, and I have been making my way slowly, dabbling, through a lot of his work, but this is finally my first run at Buddha, which mixes fictional characters who are pariah, slave and brahmin with actual historical figures, places, and events, and religion/spirituality/mythology (as you prefer).
Not a historically accurate or religiously orthodox retelling of the life and times of the Buddha. Rather, this is Osamu Tezuka throwing every idea in his gigantic brain onto the page. There's epic fantasy, philosophical musings, slapstick comedy, weird meta jokes, political commentary, action, and romance. Definitely not for everyone, but I loved it.
This is perhaps a good introduction both to buddhist ideas as well as manga for those who aren't quite prepared to read from the right to the left.
You may not want to look for historical accuracy in this, but Buddhism has a lot of background texts and myth (itself an incredible understatement), and this may stoke the curious budding Buddhist to explore further.You will find yourself wanting to finish the series, even after the first book, if only for the fact that Tezuka masterfully paces the book around a number of subplots and the Buddha himself only just enters the story as a (much portended) birth in this volume.
Possibly the best of Tezuka's many many many works.
Oddly enough I learned a ton about Buddha and Buddhism via this manga.
The first volume is the slowest if you ask me because it's the only one where the title character isn't the main character until the end.
This volume is important though because it about the caste system.
With that aside, the art in this and all Tezuka's works is breathtaking.
I should note that Tezuka is mostly known for Astro Boy, but this isn't kid friendly.
Overall I HIGHLY recommend this series (all 8 volumes).
This is my first time reading his work, as I noticed the big volumes readily available at the Westminster libraries.As titled, Buddha tells the story of Siddharta Gautama, on whose teaching Buddhism was founded.
I have only a rough idea of Siddharta: how he was a prince born in India, and in opposition to the caste system he renounced his identity and went on a journey until he attained enlightenment and became Buddha.Knowing that, I expected volume one of Buddha to jump straight to his birth and early childhood, however it is not the case.
There are a lot of reasons why Osamu Tezuka’s Buddha: Volume I Kapilavastu is wrong.
This is a version of the story of the Budda that includes humor, nudity, great violence, meat eating, and anachronisms and not very much Buddha.
I want to know more about such of these characters who survive the volume and how the story will bring us back to the foundation of Buddhism.
Tezuka has succeeded in making me care about characters, to feel the loss if any are killed and to wonder at how the story can go forward.
Instead we have the story of Tatta and Chapra and the suffering of all living things.Beginning off with a fable about the bear, fox, and the rabbit, we are off into a world of suffering where humans are given castes at their birth.
No one is allowed to exceed their order and at the top the brahmin reside as the most noblest of all humans.
That all are equal in the order of life; that nature does not favour one or the other.The charm of Tezuka is that he is excellent at making the history of Siddharta accessible to the reader.
I'm giving this a 3 star rating for now and while it may seem harsh, here are my reasonings:* Osuma uses humor rather childishly in the book, which more often than not, is corny and completely misses the point, such as references to New York when likening a city in the story.
It is a style of drawing and expression, and it is certainly worth exploring as to why he chose to do it that way but until I find that answer - it will perhaps remain a rather bothering conundrum.* About 94% of the content within the 1st book has got very little to do with the birth of Siddhartha.
One of the most interesting stories from the earth's historical traditions presented in the most entertaining way possible...
if you ever wanted to know what really went on around the time the Buddha...well...
became the Buddha...read this.
But let me warn you, also, that even though each book in the series is independently an entertaining read, each one is not enough of a story...
I sort of see each book as a chapter (I'm on the third one) and only when I'm through with the 8th will I get a sense of 'completion' with this story...Finally, I have to add, this is the first graphic novel I've ever read (actually I read Persepolis years ago I think that counts) but I'm loving the genre...
The Buddha is the first in the series - a mammoth work set in its own universe spanning eight volumes, multiple characters and pages and pages of cleverly drawn graphics.
What makes the story so interesting is how it interweaves the lives of several characters, dedicating a fair amount of space to each one of them - from the pariah Chapra to the novice monk Naradatta their stories are all dealt with importance.
What is more, they're equally fascinating.
A worthy start to a (hopefully) good series that sustains the tone set by Volume 1.
It feels like it's from the eighties, and when the weird meta-comicky jokes start in like the last quarter, it feels unfocused instead of inventive. Still though, everything else totally works, dude was a comic book master genius, lots of things *do* feel inventive and exciting, and the little peanut who runs around naked and peeing on everybody- because of empathy with animals?- is my favorite comic book character in a long time. Isla is totally right and now I totally want to read the rest of 'em.
Un Siddartha sin duda muy humano.
Superlative! Stunning! Touching! Graphic! Would like to breeze through the other 7 parts.
Wow. what a read.can't wait to read the rest. :)
A classic, early manga, not entirely sure what to think. Enjoyable enough but a really light approach to what some would consider a serious topic. Just getting the feel for it but looking forward to reading through these volumes.
This is my first taste into graphic novels which I could pick from the library near by. I enjoyed it thoroughly. It mixes the historic story of budha keeping the spoken language contemperory. Also seeing all the asian characters taking up the book it gives an entirely different feeling. I have now brought all the next 7 volumes. Can't wait to finish.
— Die japanische Originalversion wurde gespiegelt und wird also westlich von links nach rechts geblättert & gelesen.Meine erste Tezuka-Lektüre und ich verstehe, warum er als Großmeister gilt.
— Die S/W-Zeichnungen sind einfach (aber nicht simpel), mit trefflichen Auge für Details, Emotionen & Haltung.
Überragend sind alle dynamischen Vorgänge sowie eine Reihe großer ruhiger Landschaftsinszenierungen.Für uns prüde Westler & Europäer sicherlich nicht ganz selbstverständlich: Ton & Stil entsprechem einem Jugendcomic, aber weibliche Formen sowie Grausamkeiten werden dennoch erstaunlich offen gezeigt bzw.
Für mich als phantastisch-atheistischer Humanist eine großartige, berührende, lustige, spannende, überraschende & Seelenruhe-förderliche Lektüre.
Being a bit unschooled in graphic novels beyond the big-guns like Sandman, Persepolis, and Maus, I asked him for some suggestions and he directed me to Osamu Tezuka's Buddha series.While I wasn't initially attracted to the drawing style, the story immediately grabbed me and I was hooked!
What I love so much about this story, and the series, is that is works on many different levels for many different kinds of readers.
But if you take the time to pace yourself, and occasionally stop and reflect upon what you are reading and seeing, you'll notice many different layers and messages which make the story both entertaining and thought-provoking.
Misalnya saja, waktu perang Bharatayudha terjadi, kedua belah pihak menyepakati dulu bahwa perang harus berlangsung di padang Kurusetra.Sayangnya sebuah sistem bisa menjadi korup, seperti halnya yang terjadi di India pada saat lahirnya pangertan Siddharta Gautama.
Wajah India inilah yang ditangkap dan disampaikan oleh legenda manga Osamu Tezuka.
Gaya gambarnya mungkin terkesan jadul, tapi kemampuan Tezuka bertutur sungguh luar biasa.Ini adalah buku pertama dari riwayat sang Buddha yang dituturkan dalam bentuk manga.
Tidak seperti biografi konvensional, Osamu Tezuka sengaja menambahkan tokoh-tokoh fiktif yang memainkan peranan besar dalam cerita.
Pada buku pertama ini pembaca diajak berkenalan dengan Tatta, seorang pariah yang memiliki kekuatan supranatural.
There’s no main character (maybe Tatta, but the story is not told only on his perspective), and each chapter is told on parallel or on another point of view on different set of characters, a similar style that he use on Adolf.
This helps lifting a lightly the serious veil, but not affecting the story or losing the reader’s interest.Esta historia está alrededor de la historia del nacimiento de Siddartha.
No hay en si un personaje principal (tal vez Tatta, pero la historia no está contada solo con su perspectiva), y cada capítulo esta contado ya sea en paralelo o desde otro punto de vista con otros personajes, es un estilo muy parecido al que usa en Adolf.
Tezuka's liberal adaptation of the Buddha story is both riveting and kitschy in its use of 80s lingo and Manga humor and silliness.
In the end, Tezuka's ability to tell a fast-paced, well-oiled tale outshines all these cartoonish trappings.Notes:The mix of Manga humor and action with the gravitas of a spiritual text is discriminating and quite original.
Tatta's use of 80s lingo takes away from the any of the period believability in the story.
Chapra and Tatta's stories are heartbreaking but lose their impact with the silly gestures and random interjections of humor redolent in Manga.
Though I'm not a fan of the manga-style drawings, I believe that it was a valid choice to lighten up a story so filled with details and "mythological" events that supposedly let to formation of its main character.This first book (I believe there are six or seven more) introduces us to two interesting characters: Chapra the slave and Tatta the pariah.
Those were tumultuous and war-ridden times and through both Chapra and Tatta we get a taste of what it was like to be of a lower class in those days.
