https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7682.The_Great_Train_Robbery
In Victorian London, can Edward Pierce and his cronies pull off a train heist and get away with a fortune in gold bullion?Like quite a few of my reads over the years, this book appeared on my radar courtesy of Kemper.
Critchton throws the reader into the deep end with his talk of bone lays, twirls, drums, and gammons.As with most capers, the joy is in the planning and watching Pierce deal with getting key impressions, ferreting out key impressions, and dealing with setbacks along the way.
That means we know where the puzzle is leading us, but we are not sure how all these tiny pieces are going to come together to form the big picture!The Great Train Robbery by Micheal Crichton is a similar affair.
It actually reminded me of his first novel he wrote (As Crichton), The Andromeda Strain which uses similar style along with foreshadowing.
He researched those incidents and made/fictionalized these connections to the story.After finishing the novel, I took some time to read the actual story behind the Train robbery.
At the same time, I was astonished by the fact that Crichton invented most of the planning in this tale by himself!
A Mr. Edward Pierce, the reason, a handsome, charming gentleman, well almost, the mastermind of this dastardly crime, caused the theft, along with his helpers, Robert Agar, an expert at making wax impressions, of keys, the copies to open the two safes, containing the gold bars, Barlow, a former thug, Pierce's servant, carriage driver, and muscleman, he can do the dirty work.
A nervous finale, of the robbery, insanely jumping on top of the fast moving train, from section to section, Mr. Pierce, needs to open the compartment door, where the gold is, Agar, already hidden inside, awaits.
The book came highly recommended to me by Jaya, Tarinee, and Smitha.
But once you start reading, you find that it is much more than that.
Story revolves around Edward Pierce and how he successfully excutes this robbery.
Though robbery came much later in the story, it was a real delight to read how Pierce picked his cronies and planned the heist.
I loved specially the scenes where he takes the impression of keys.Michael Crichton's story telling is top class.
Once again many thanks to Jaya, Tarinee, and Smitha for recommending this gem to me.
Pierce's other accomplices are no less fascinating.The ending was excellent also.The only flaw with the novel might be that the victims and the Scotland Yard people were shown to be too naive and trusting.Though Crichton is famous for his science fiction novels, his works in other genres are equally good.
I would recommend this book to annyone who likes a good heist novel and to those who like crime stories set in the Victorian era.
If I am capable of guilt when it comes to my literary tastes The Great Train Robbery could be a "guilty pleasure," but how can a man who did his honours thesis on Michael Crichton's The Great Train Robbery feel any guilt over loving The Great Train Robbery?
I used The Great Train Robbery in my thesis because it was the one book that Michael Crichton directed himself.
He wrote the novel, wrote the screenplay, cast the main characters, and made all the alterations that moved his story from one medium to another.
Reasons why I implore you to check out this book The Setting:  The 1850's, Victorian England. Rich, colourful and detailed, this is one of the most dynamic periods of English history, forever loved by readers both young and old. It was a world of contradictions: beneath the aforementioned richness, lay the pall of poverty, sickness, prostitution and death, harboured by the ongoing Industrial Revolution. The author, Michael Chrichton flits so seamlessly between the two, that it creates a wonderf
Edward Pierce, a charismatic 'cracksman', or master thief, plans a heist to steal a shipment of twelve thousand pounds being transported on a train from London for the Crimean War. The novel, written mainly with the help of court proceedings ( It is based on a TRUE incident) talks about how he brought his plans into execution.The Protagonist:  The (anti)hero is so drool worthy that I actually fell in love with him!
The large info dumps were scattered throughout, pretty much every chapter starts with them and then almost as an afterthought parts with characters added in.
I started skimming this about 100 pages in, if this was any larger I'd have quit on it at that point (I'd feel bad for DNF'ing two books in a row too).
The characters were bland and not well drawn out but I guess they barely had any time to be drawn out as I was too busy learning about hinges and shit for a safe about 150 years old.
But at that point no flying shits were given.
This is the book which introduced me to Michael Crichton, and his inimitable way of mixing fact and fiction so that the borders are blurred, like shading is done in watercolour paintings. I loved it enough to read almost all of his remaining works.As some critic once said: "Michael Crichton is too serious to be considered a popular writer, and too popular to be considered serious." Spot on.
Do you like a well written historical fiction ?Do you like a brilliant edge of seat crime thriller where you encounter twists with the turn of each page ?Do you cherish a book with an intelligent,vicious and meticulous yet manipulative , cunning and ruthless anti-hero whose plannings/layers are so brilliant and detailed that he can easily give Scotland yard a run for their money ?Do you enjoy Victorian England as the setup of your story ?
Στο όλο κόλπο θα συμμετάσχουν με τον έναν ή τον άλλο τρόπο διάφοροι εγκληματίες, μικρά αλλά σημαντικά γρανάζια μιας μηχανής εγκλήματος...Ο τρόπος που ο Κράιτον παρουσιάζει την ιστορία αλλά και την εποχή, είναι πραγματικά μοναδικός.
Υπάρχουν διάφορες σκηνές με δράση, συνωμοσίες και κόλπα εγκληματιών, αλλά επίσης γινόμαστε μάρτυρες μιας εποχής, μαθαίνουμε πράγματα για την κοινωνία της Βικτωριανής Αγγλίας, για τον κόσμο του εγκλήματος, για τη ζωή στο Λονδίνο, για διάφορα σημαντικά πράγματα που έχουν σχέση με την πλοκή.
Η γραφή είναι πάρα πολύ καλή, ευκολοδιάβαστη και εθιστική, με ρεαλιστικές περιγραφές των διαφόρων καταστάσεων και των χαρακτήρων.Όπως είπα στην αρχή, είναι σίγουρα ένα από τα καλύτερα βιβλία του Μάικλ Κράιτον που διαβάζω.
A fabulous book in the historical thriller genre.
I learned a great deal about Victorian London upon reading.
Published in 1974.
Very similar to Devil in the White City.
Both books present a masterful villain in a city known for its historically high crime.
Perhaps less dramatic than Devil in the White City but more educational.
You know who the villain is from the first page so the book tells you how he pulled off the heist.
There is a major plot twist at the end that is the icing on the cake.
My favorite Michael Crichton book and it’s not even fiction.
(By 1850), the population had nearly doubled to twenty-four million, and half the people lived in urban centers....the conversion from agrarian life seemed to have occurred almost overnight; indeed, the process was so swift that no one really understood it.Crichton goes on to demonstrate this assertion in some detail, summarizing the effects of the early Industrial Revolution - then he comes to railroads:prior to 1830 there were (few) railways in England.
The fact that the robbers also overcame the finest safes of the day only increased the consternation.Without question, a definable subculture of professional criminals existed a hundred years ago in mid-Victorian England.

It really felt as if the movie "Ocean's Eleven" was being reenacted in the different settings of Victorian London.And I would advise you do the same if you are as ignorant as me (at least as far as "The Great Train Robbery" is concerned) - don't click on any links on the internet which might summarize the event for you, don't even read the blurb on this site or even on the book.
I can only imagine the number of people he had had to talk to, the amount of newspaper clippings he had had to go through to put together this tale so wonderfully that never, not for a second, do you doubt that those people had said and felt and expressed the very things mentioned in the book, in actuality.
The fact that an audacious, insane, genius of a man pulled off such a large-scale, highly publicized robbery IN THE VICTORIAN ERA is simply astounding - so much so that one comes to admire and root for him in the end.
I loved it!I like that the story is told in past tense, as a recollection of the robbery from 1855.
It worked so well in creating awe and underlining the stunning nature of the whole story as it warranted.It was so fascinating to read all the preparation that went into pulling off what was then termed the crime of the century in England.
I would love to read more books like this - noir thriller, recollection of real events, would be great if it was about a heist, please recommend me some if you have read any good ones.
Aside from the somewhat dull history lessons that pop up here and there, this tale was a nice, fun read. Pierce, the main antagonist/protagonist, comes off as a clever rogue who you want to see succeed, even though his actions endanger lives, none more so than his own. The planning and execution of the robbery is explained in detail, evincing a brazenness one can't help but admire.Definitely recommended.
I first read this in high school and enjoyed it. I just re-read it and think it might be my favorite of all of Crichton's books. It has a great blend of historical fiction, nonfiction, and the author's natural ability to provide a sense of excitement and adventure. Highly recommended even if you typically only enjoy Crichton's science fiction.
I have to say this one was really, really, really good and I was entertained thoroughly.
Expected maybe okay and was pleasantly surprised; certainly that has an effect on how I rate a book.
I was excited to get back and read this book every time I picked it up which is definitely not always the case.
Reminded me of a milder version of In Cold Blood.
A nonfiction historical “novel” about a crime where lots of information was taken directly from trial transcripts.
Germane information from the Victorian era.
Entertaining dialogue.
A touch of true crime intrigue.
I’d highly recommend this book.
“The Victorians always referred to this crime in capital letters, as The Great Train Robbery.” This is Crichton’s fictionalized novel based on what is known of the truth, with a good deal of conjecture and embellishment.What a rollicking good story!
But the way he imagines the lead characters, especially Edward Pierce (the gang leader), is what really breathes life into the story.
It’s always been a favorite book by Crichton and I’ve recommended it to people over the years and a quick, fun adventure / crime story.
The book was adapted to film in 1978, starring Sean Connery as Edward Pierce, and Donald Sutherland as his accomplice Robert Agar.

Michael Crichton has another side it seems, that of the detective historian.
The Great Train Robbery is Crichton’s retelling of a famous train robbery in mid-19th century Victorian England and the enigmatic mastermind behind it, William Pierce.In telling us this tale, Crichton takes us on a tour of Victorian England and its’ culture and morals.
It is educational and compelling and paints a vivid Dickens-like picture of the London underworld, full of British criminal slang and flavor.
This book is a joy to read, or to listen to in my case, as Michael Kitchen absolutely nails the voicing in the audiobook version.
Although sometimes the way that writing style was crafted was a chore or downright bore, the twists and turns in the sneaky story was impressive.
I would have liked it less had the villain not gone out in a blaze of glory as impressive as his planning and execution of the actual crime.
The speaking style was hard for me to get used and I still have no idea what some of the slang means, but the characters still left lasting impressions.
Eventually I need to track down that movie and see if it's the same story-line...Full review to come.
I don’t know how this gem of a book fell off my radar for so long. Using lots of historical research, Crichton has done an expert job of putting this crime back together. I really enjoyed this.
All this preamble leads me to say that I am quite enraptured by some stories set in this world for it is one of those locations in literature I easily identify with.The story line is as simple as the books title suggests.
There are points when Crichton digs up seemingly trivial matters of description about railways, hansom cabs or butlers during that era which later finds a use somewhere along the story.
A lot of journals, books and memoirs are referenced and they have been sewn in without awkwardness into the tale.
The book being an early work of Crichton also has its own charm.
And not because they were criminals--just leave it to movies like "Oceans 11" to make criminals endearing--but because I just felt so bogged down in the slang and the minor details of the plot that I don't feel the characters were sufficiently developed.
I felt like Crichton had done rather a lot of research on the times and just wanted to be sure he could fit it all in somehow.
Crime novel on a grand scale, I love how this book covers the plotting and scheming of the robbery.
The best comparison I can think of is the ocean eleven, particularly with details like the slang for the jobs typical to this "profession" and the underground roles of people who set these attempts in motion.
Its a different spin on the crime with the focus on the criminals and not on those solving the crime.
A well written and intriguing suspense novel by a quality author, although this is probably not among the great books most people associate with him, I think definitely think it could be.
I do admire an author that can take a historic event, do research and weave a story that is entertaining and well written.
In this tale the robbery took place during the reign of Queen Victoria in the year 1855.
The mastermind of the gold theft was Pierce, who planned the caper and hired specific criminals to pull it off.
The story does have it's mishaps, even the best laid plans don't always come off without a hitch.
I find it fascinating that even when caught and during the trial Pierce escaped and faded into history.
The gold was never recovered so sometimes “crime does pay”.

