https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/421002.Elizabeth_and_Essex
The romantic tragedy of the Virgin Queen14 June 2012 This is not an historical text book per se but rather the story of the relationship between the Earl of Essex and Queen Elizabeth I that rings like a romantic tragedy. It is difficult to tell the accuracy of many of the accounts in this book namely because Strachey does not source it in the traditional sense. In fact I am not sure of when modern books began to reference their material (and many of the factual novels that are released these day
When we look back at that period of English history we almost see an England that is coming in on its own.
Elizabeth was sympathetic towards the idea of a national church, however wasn't willing to go as far as some of the radical reformers wanted (and this happened during the English civil war and the period of the republic afterwards).
Elizabeth had her fair share of battles and struggles, particularly early on in life where she was imprisoned and almost executed by her sister, but also during her reign.
I find English history to be fascinating and I find the life of Queen Elizabeth just as fascinating.
I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the Elizabethean-era, or the privatelife of Queen Elizabeth I.
I didn't expect to enjoy a history book this much! 'Elizabeth and Essex' must be the most beautifully written non-fiction I've ever read. The authour is praised for his deep understanding of the characters, and his quiet sense of humour is absolutely irresistible. This is definitely among the best books I've read this year. An exquisite page-turner.
Yet this vital contribution by a master wordsmith in a class of his own cannot be overlooked by today's Elizabethan history buffs.Perhaps Lytton Strachey never intended Elizabeth and Essex as primarily a detailed documentation of this turbulent royal liaison.
Similarly Sigmund Freud's influence over Strachey's work, particularly in Elizabeth and Essex, has been commonly noted.
Not to everyone's stylistic taste, lacking the 'popular' appeal of more recent Tudor histories, this retains an important place in its genre.
I suspected my Elizabethan history reading incomplete before consuming this and on finishing it saw why.Though I might never have bought this thoughtful gift from someone dear, it undoubtedly broadened my literary scope.
Not the edition I read.This read more like fiction than history, but the writing was terrific. I really enjoyed this and would recommend it to Tudor fans.
The doomed headstrong earl - the wounded Queen - the serpent Francis Bacon - the subtle Master Secretary - their story told in beautiful sinuous prose
¿Apasionado por la Monarquía inglesa? ¿Apasionado por la Reina Isabel Tudor? Este libro ayuda a entender un poco su lado humano.
Elisabetta ha cinquantatré anni quando conosce il ventenne Essex e tra i due scocca una scintilla particolare, sarà poi quella stessa donna quattordici anni dopo a mandare il suo “amato” sul patibolo.“Dall’alto trono riccamente addobbato, la regina seguiva quei divertimenti; accanto a lei stava il conte, con cui spesso conversava in modo dolce e benevolo.
Riusce a ottenere cariche e incarichi grazie all’influenza che egli suscita su di lei e solo quando la sovrana si sente realmente minacciata corre ai ripari.Elisabetta è una donna apparentemente forte e determinata ma in realtà assai fragile e incostante.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/1586764.htmlA short (180 pages) but colourful account of the relationship in the 1590s between Elizabeth I and the second Earl of Essex, which ended with his execution in 1601.
No footnotes or much sourcing at all, which makes one a bit suspicious of its historical accuracy, though it is told in suitably dramatic terms.
I had not realised that Essex was actually the great-grandson of the "other Boleyn girl", Anne's sister Mary - indeed his grandmother was quite possibly her daughter by Henry VIII, making him the queen's great-nephew.
Taken as history, this reads as...dated.
I shifted to thinking of this more as historical fiction that majors on the historical and minors on the fiction (novelistic history?), rather like "I Claudius," which is, I think, a more fitting genre judgment.
Also, I didn't have any idea what was actually going to happen (I'm weak on the Elizabethans, apparently), and so the suspense built dramatically and the ending was a very effective punch in the gut.
In the end, surprising myself, I highly recommend it.
I would like to read something on the topic more academic, which is a good sign.
Lytton Strachey was one of the greatest writers of the 20th Century, and this book was not only his biggest seller, it was also sadly his last, cancer striking him down far too young.
But it suggests what a remarkable career he could have had...after the brilliant satire of "Eminent Victorians" and the gentle wit of "Queen Victoria," Strachey now crafted a book which mixed fact and psychological speculation in a larger-than-life romance.
Thankfully, we have what we have...and this may be his most accessible book, and thus a wonderful place for someone who has never read Strachey to discover him.
Lytton Strachey gets as close as possible to historical figures that are centuries distant. He scours existing written correspondence and evidence and paints sharp pictures with them. His writing style ranges from witty to catty, but sometimes it is dry.I'm always glad to read works by Bloomsbury contributors!
An interestingly written account of the relationship between Queen Elizabeth I and the Earl of Essex. The story is compelling, and although Strachey perhaps embellished in places his writing is thoughtful and smart. I recommend this book for those who love Elizabeth I and the Tudors; it nicely balances history and drama and moves along at a good pace.
I liked it, though it can read like a gossip tabloid! Written several decades ago, the language is not so modern and can be a little difficult to follow. I learned a dozen new words, lol. This is a valuable read though because the author still uses much of the correspondence and saved records of these two and of the court witnesses.
I had put this down for awhile because I found it to be sort of flippant, or something in the style of writing. It has some interesting history and these were star crossed lovers for sure. December and May romances are always taxing especially when you are the Queen of England.
I'm in a Lytton Strachey phase right now. I liked reading his take on Elizabeth--it's very gossipy. In this, the queen resembles Miranda Richardson's character in Black Adder more than the usual Elizabeth we see in films/documentaries. Fun.
Never thought I would be done with this one, had to skim much toward the end up until the Ireland episode and beyond. Too much a mix of fact and historical fiction flair. I understand it was written in 1928. but it is not for me.
This was shorter and an easy read. It doesn't go into specific details incessantly about the time period but it is a good overview of the downfall of Robert Deveraux. I do recommend it to anyone interested in Elizabeth's character in her later years.
Strachey's prose is electrified by his adoration of Robert Devereux. All the characters in this history are larger-than-life. Very enjoyable.
Though in some ways deeply silly, this was a very enjoyable read. Strachey's way with words can be hilarious.
http://www.flickr.com/photos/7275613@...
Enjoyable ... hardly history ... unforgettable characterization of Francis Bacon as "a glittering serpent swaying in ecstasy." Read it if you're going to write an opera about the Elizabethans.
