https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43805.Servant_of_the_Bones
Like most of Anne Rice's later work, this book is written in a loose, breathy semisoftcore, purple overwrought style and is sprinkled with too many one sentence paragraphs. The premise of the story isn't bad and I didn't have a hard time getting though it but it does give one that creepy squirrely feeling of having unintentionally intruded upon someone else's sexual fantasies about Antonio Banderas.
This one seems to be written during the height of Rice's creative talents. Although it did have a few boring moments, I actually really liked it. The mythology and ritual of how djinn work in her universe is actually pretty cool. I like that the continuity of how spiritual beings kind of coalesce by pulling atoms and molecules together out of thin air to create their bodies was fascinating, as was seen with Lasher and Memnoch in other stories. Forget the overused characters like Lestat, this one needs a sequel.
The basic idea of this story seemed to come out of left field: A charming, fairly spiritual Babylonian sacrifices himself in a beautiful ceremony for the sake of his people.
99.9% of it is told in flashbacks, which is great since for some reason flashbacks and history lessons are usually my favorite parts of Anne Rice's books.
And of course, since it's Anne Rice we're talking about, the story is beautiful and tragic, with an immortal main character who has to cope with the fact that he doesn't ever get to die and go to heaven like everybody else.
I was rather bored on occations too, especially at the start because I felt that it took way too long to get interesting.The story itself was ok but not especially thrilling.
Part of the problem here was that it was too long, and the tedious story of the narrator wasn't that interesting and took up too much of the book.
In fact, I could have even been two separate books, imho.Whether or not this is a typical Rice book, I don't know, but it hasn't really inspired me to read any more of hers sadly.
I am more used to Anne Rice's vampires, and the occasional mummy, than I am with her other works.
It's the "current" time frame and it's story where the tale struggles a bit.
The messianic lunatic that he fights against isn't a terrible character and the "plan" is actually interesting, but falls short of the quality of the rest of the "historical" story.In the "current" timeline Azriel is helping the wife of the messianic lunatic solve her daughter's death, allegedly at the hands of members of the cult/religion.
It IS Anne Rice, get over it.
Miss Rice has always, not only done much research for her books--including this one--but she is then able to tell a story, making the reader feel as if he is really there with the main characters.
Miss Rice tells the story of Azriel, a young Jew, who is there during the conquest by Cyrus the Persian.
This may seem like a simple story, but the central theme is can Azriel' soul ever go to heaven, since he was made this powerful spirit against his will?
I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys historically beautiful times, and someone who roots for the underdog.
DNF @ 11%I thought I'd give Anne Rice another try. I read enough of this to remember how much her style bugs me. Plus, this is yet another novel about an ancient supernatural being recounting his life story to a scribe. I read that already in Interview with the Vampire.
I would have relished experiencing the varying attitudes and philosophies through the ages, deliberating on their effect and values.I also wish we had spent more time delving into (view spoiler)[Azriel breaking his own bonds: coming to the realization that he didn't have to answer to any "master" that called him, that in fact he could wreak destruction on any who even made the attempt; eventually finding the power to call and command himself of his own free will.
I do respect Ann Rice for her wonderful-written vampire series, and boy can she think up some interesting plots and details.

Pretty boring. He mostly talked.
Admittedly, I didn't finish this book. I read 60 of 360 pages and found it more tortorously boring and overly descriptive. I think the book was laced with a sleep aid.
In my quest to own and read everything Anne Rice, however, I endured and interspersed my stints of reading Servant with nice helpings of Ice Cream books.
In the Servant of the Bones you meet the spirit Azriel as he tells his tale to the Professor and Author Jonathan.
When I was about halfway through, I began to fall in love with the spirit Azriel, and plowed though the rest of the book rather quickly.
While her books on the Mayfair Witches are still my favorites, I look forward to continuing my journey though the books of Anne Rice.
Anne Rice tells the story slowly; A demon or god recalling his past while a temporary recluse writer transcribes the story for him is a unique story line.
I would like to re-read this text because I feel there is so much more to the human side of the god presented in the writing.
As for my own writing the ability of telling a story within a story would be a skill of interest.
The way Rice relates it to the reader, with such smooth transitions,one has no difficulty with telling if they are in the present or the past.
Although it has been a few years since I have read this book, it still stays with me.
She uses flashbacks and backstory to develop her characters and give them personality.
She even gives personality to characters that most others would have ignored.
This layers the story and gives it life.
In this book she goes into mythology and intertwines religions to create a unique story.
Rice's imagination comes through in "high definition" in her writing and it makes you want to continue reading.
She influences my writing because I want to be capable of creating a "high definition" story like hers.
I have a love/hate relationship with Anne Rice. I love her when she moves stories along. Her skills are wonderful and drive the characters and the situations beautifully.Then she lapses into feelings and souls and a bunch of mumbo-jumbo blah blah blah that I couldn't care less about.This was the latter rather than the former.Really, the book could have been 100 pages long, but instead takes you through a thousand years that mean nothing and twenty pages of meaningful stuff at the end.Blah.
I got this one autographed at a signing in Little Rock, Arkansas. I could barely speak as Anne signed it and had to go lay down on the floor between some bookshelves. HA!
Okay, so it is kind of obvious that Anne Rice wrote this book right after Memnoch the Devil.
So the book starts off with Part 1, where a professor who uses the name Jonathan is approached by a genii named Azriel who would like his story known and written down.
The next section of the book, Part 2, is about Azriel's adventures with his favorite master.
He kind of briefly talks about the most recent one, which was actually my favorite single scene in the entire book.
(Rice wrote that Dora, the woman in her last book, Memnoch, was a televangelist too).
I really don’t think this book was at all forgettable, but I’m probably lying, since apparently I did forget about it once already.Synopsis: Azriel was a Jew living in the Babylonian empire until, after a double betrayal, he is sacrificed and incompetently transformed into a spirit who can be called forth by someone who has the knowledge necessary and the possession of his bones.
Also, the last book by her I’ve read was quite a while ago (more than 10 years, I think), before I discovered feminism, and now I was shocked to see how few female characters she has.
If I had been Azriel, I would have left my Jewish family, who clearly don’t love me if they’re willing to (view spoiler)[ offer me as a human sacrifice  (hide spoiler)] in return for getting into Cyrus’s good graces.
If anyone tells you (view spoiler)[ getting coated in poison-laced gold and being pitched into a boiling cauldron  (hide spoiler)] is love, run—do not walk!—the opposite direction.The story happening in the present time (mid-1990’s) involving the Temple of the Mind is uninventive.
And though I accept the possibility that the ideas were fresh when this book was published, (view spoiler)[ man-made epidemics  (hide spoiler)] and religious cults are really played out.
This book is about an ancient Hebrew boy who was selected for a deadly ritual, and ended up being subjected to an even more hideous ritual just before his physical life ended.
It's one of the primary reasons I read her stuff.And of course, like in most of her books, the main characters involved have so much money that they can do whatever they please in life (yawn).
The reason I continue to read her work is because I like it.
The plot itself was good, and somewhat compelling; however, most of the book just DRAGGED...
The book could have been much better had she written less, and compressed the action more, because what she had was good, but slow and fairly unsuspenseful.
I wasn't drawn to read more, to not put the book down, because of the lack of suspense.The only part I really liked was in the beginning, when she told the part of the story that describes how Azriel became the Servant of the Bones.
If I did, I'd probably just read the part I liked, Azriel's origination story.
In fact I think The School on Heart's Content Road was probably worse.
I only read this book because it is for one of my book clubs.
For this book club whoever is hosting gets to choose the book.
The person hosting May's book club is a sci-fi/fantasy fan, which is so not my genre at all.
She offered us 3 choices of books and this seemed the most mainstream, so it got the most votes.
I sincerely wish I had voted for something else.
I don't even have the heart to recap the plot of this book.
This was another good book from Anne Rice.
The main character is narrating through several past events leading to the present his life as a servant to the bones that he was cursed to.
I have read many novels that this type of layers in a story took away from the novels appeal because it made things to complicated but Rice used it amazingly and without the layers the reader would never had been able to experience the conflicts, and depth of the story through the characters choices, made by fear, habit, and his beliefs.
Another #1 for Anne Rice.
When I was reading Anne Rice's "Servant of the Bones" last year, I could not decide if I cared much for her style or the story.
It was not until I finished the book that I began thinking about both the story and the writing style.
It took another three months before I realized how thought provoking her book had been for me.
Since then I have enjoyed a few of her books and just finished "Interview with the Vampire" (Which I always thought was called "Interview with a Vampire".) I've learned to love her style and looking forward to reading many more of her books.
The story about Azrael in Babylon is beautiful, but I suppose Anne Rice is attempting to validate the Book of Enoch which is apochryphal by including a prophet named Enoch among the exiles in Babylon. The Enoch mentioned in the Old Testament is Methuselah's father from a much earlier generation. This is a minor point. Most readers probably will not notice. The contemporary plot line didn't have the impact that it might have had because it reminded me of other similar scenarios I've seen in other novels.
I like it when Anne Rice (1) leaves the world of vampires and (2) leaves New Orleans. She did both in this book and I approve mightily. A very ancient creature is telling his life story to someone, simply because it is a story to be told. We get to sit with both characters in a cabin by a fireplace and listen in. The story is terrifying, heartwarming, aching and joyous at times, and told exceedingly well.
Run, do not walk to the nearest trashcan and deposit it at the bottom. Don't put it on top of the trash because some homeless person might accidentally read it. His life is already pretty sad. We don't need to make it worse.It's about a genie locked inside a pile of bones. The story is told in the same interview format as "Interview with a Vampire". There's a homoerotic undertone throughout the book which I found quite tedious.
Not being an Anne Rice fan, didn't know what to expect when I found this book at a book sale. However, the ancient Babylon setting and Judaism mythology behind the story line really drew me in. Very compelling storyline and one could develop a real connection with the 'bones' by the end of the story.
Azriel, the Servant of the Bones, takes us from the destruction of Solomon's Temple through the ages to modern day Manhattan. This is not a vampire story or a Mayfair Witches story, but one of an altogether different and fascinating character
I I absolutely loved the story of Azriel. I highly recommend the book Servant Of the Bones. I would also like to see a movie made from it. If you like ghost stories this is a must read. Anne Rice is the best!
