https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/751683.Totality_and_Infinity
The analysis of the I (in freedom) in enjoyment, labor, and in dwelling, as undertaken in Section II, allows for two further profound possibilities: (1) the (ethical) hospitality directed straightforwardly toward the Other--in view of the public (that is, outside home or in the home totally dedicated and opened to the Other in service) and in justice--who comes knocking at my door as my neighbor (Section III); and (2) the discrete feminine welcome maintained in the intimate of home in private and behind the closed doors, leading to another type of transcendence: eros, fecundity, paternity, filiality, and fraternity (Section IV).
This work of philosophy shows how ethics is based on one’s relationship with an other, which is accomplished in the form of a welcome, including gift-giving and respect, rather than with violence, that is, any attempt to dominate or make use of an other.What is most striking about the book is how poetic it is, how it makes use of poetic devices such as wordplay and repetition, and how it depends on the experience of reading the book rather than on proving what is asserted.
The book, therefore, approaches the reader much as Levinas says others should be approached: through the gift of teaching.The book is difficult to read.
Levinas applies Phenomenology to Buber to argue that Ethics begins with the intrusion of the face of another human into the confines of consciousness.
Every time I read this, I realize how my understanding of Levinas is partial.
It's rather unquestionable how much impact Levinas had on French philosophy.
And his argument is, at times, fascinating.
It's just that I disagree with the initial premise so much that I disagree with so many ideas that Levinas extracts from that premise.
It's just that to really get it, you have to put yourself in the shoes of a Talmudic scholar who survived the Holocaust, and deeply wanted to wash phenomenology clean of the dirt Heidegger had dragged it through.
And at the end of the day, I find Merleau-Ponty's brand of phenomenology just that much more reasonable.
Levinas has put love into philosophical terms. I don't mean romantic love. I mean love as in the giving of oneself for the well-being of all others.
D'après Sartre, l'enfer c'est les autres. D'après Levinas, le visage de Dieu, c'est les autres ce qui explique pourquoi le pape Jean Paul II a encouragé les catholiques à lire les textes de Levinas.Il faut comprendre que "Totalité et Infini" est très difficile à comprendre. Si vous n'avez pas suivi quelques cours de philosophie à l'université, je vous conseille de lire "Ethique et infini" avant d'entreprendre ce livre qui constitue un défi de taille.
Certainly, an incredibly difficult book--but definitely one well worth the effort. Levinas presents so much to contemplate in a way I find other (alter, perhaps) than in most other forms of expression. The ideas presented here must be continually remembered and reflected on, in my view--very highly recommended.
Levinas has rekindled my faith that it is possible to act ethically and be a generally "good" person without subscribing to any particular codification of religion. Amazing book, if you can get through it. It made my head hurt!
Unfortunately, it is impossible to really understand Levinas’s philosophical project without Totality and Infinity’s other elements, especially its discourse on enjoyment and, after “Ethics and the Face,” “The Ethical Relation and Time.” Moreover, there are considerable portions of Totality and Infinity in which Levinas reverts to the philosophy of the Same, i.e. Western philosophy since Plato, and without acquaintance with these sections, it is difficult to see how, or why, Levinas moved in such different philosophical directions after Jacques Derrida responded to the book with his seminal article, “Violence and Metaphysics.” In order to fully appreciate Levinas and how he evolved as a thinker, Totality and Infinity is indispensable; it is also one of the most important texts in the history of Western philosophy.It is critical, I think, to appreciate how the way in which Totality and Infinity is written reflects the nature of the philosophical discourse therein.
Another college book.
I read this my senior year.
Obviously most of it has been lost to memory.
What has not been lost is the conversation I had eating warm johnnie bread, drinking stolen wine and talking about the Other with my roommate and another friend well into the night.
Levinas' project is fascinating because he is trying to take the existiential phenomenology that Heidegger develops and argue that Alethia is structured by the ethics of the other.
Nonetheless this is a great piece of philosophy and I have to say that this is a necessary read for the 20th Century continental tradition.
Emmanuel Levinas ha pasado por el holocausto, y ni su pensamiento ni el de ningún filósofo podrá ya trabajar como si aquello no hubiera ocurrido.
Su filosofía, aunque pensando las grandes ideas tradicionales de la totalidad y el infinito, aterriza en la responsabilidad incuestionable que instaura la mirada del otro, la cual funda la ética.
Se piensa la totalidad y el infinito, pero solo por tener que cuidar al ser humano de carne y hueso, al otro que que nos impone su rostro.
tiende a deslizarse por lo que humildemente me parece más una poética que una filosofía firme y rigurosa.
This book is full of rich and provocative insights.
Levinas developed his philosophical insights--a blend of themes of phenomenology with ideas from Bergson and German Idealism--during the same period that Heidegger and Sartre were developing their philosophies, and there is strong resonance between all three.
What is frustrating about this book, though, is that, (1) unlike the works by Sartre and Heidegger, it is often characterized by an approach to language that seems contrived and (2) it is excessively, misrepresentatively critical of other thinkers.
The result is that readers often take away these two problems, rather than taking away the rich and provocative insights.
Levinas restores the phenomenological inseparability of the philosophical and the theological in the face of the Other in this deeply ethical work. This work is hard to read. It takes vigor and commitment to get through it. I would recommend, first, just pushing through the entirety of the work before stopping and sorting it all out. This work is not linear. There is a lot of back-and-forth, and it really must be read as such. Otherwise, an amazing work whose heaviness ought not be ignored.
Problematic not for its ideas and fundamental points, though those are flawed, but for the presentation, which is not very persuasive or sensible. Grounding ethics in the distance between self and other is a fairly fascinating idea in itself, but Levinas doesn't flesh it out well.
If there is true, its elsewhere
Difficult
Levinas is not incorrect to attribute a form of inherent violence to Western philosophical systems, but this is hardly transcended by the resentful aspersions cast toward anyone not belonging to this religious sect of traversing the distance between Same and Other.
How pitiful Levinas finds it, this atheist rabble corrupted by such trivialities as "truth" and "speech!" Turning his nose up at these confused truth-seekers, he smirks at their sorry stature, assured that all this unenlightened drivel they speak of about "consciousness, language, truth, being" is imperialist violence, war, conflict, antithesis.
Because embracing the mirage-object of my individual self is a colonial imperialist terrorist act of war?
It’s as if the totalizing system encompasses all but one’s subjectivity, resulting in the islands of self-interested striving towards the appropriation of the other in a Hobbesian rabid monadology that cannot suffer the success of any other than itself, condemning all to lived hells of cold and impersonal individuation.
But it also projects towards an aesthetic understanding of ambience and notions of the chora wherein one’s relation to their surroundings disclose the realm of being wherein the duality of mind-body dissolves into action.
Per Lévinas tutto dipende dall'uomo e dal suo essere sempre in situazione.
L'elemento trascendentale dell'uomo è il suo essere perennemente teso verso Altri: l'essenza dell'uomo è il suo rapportarsi con gli altri, che rappresentano quell'Infinito da cui il singolo si separa.
E' un oggetto sul quale non ho potere, ma con il quale posso entrare in dialogo: il linguaggio è lo strumento della trascendenza e il rapporto con l'altro è la possibilità del senso, che nasce proprio dall'atto del comunicare.
In Lévinas questo straboccare dall'individualità non porta l'umano a confrontarsi con l'essere, ma con altre individualità.
Indeed one of the hardest thinkers to sync up with, Levinas carries the reader from the interiority of the self, which sets out from the enjoyment that is itself an end for all conscious creatures, to the encounter with the Other that calls the self into question—exteriority, which is defined by the living dialog between humans who exceed one another.
This encounter turns out to be the condition of possibility for genuine human freedom and responsibility—the moral, which is prior to the political (and indeed prior to even the rational).Much easier to read this book if you have a grasp of Heidegger's Being and Time, and at least an idea of Hegel and Sartre.
It broke my heart to discover that Levinas ended up being almost ironically ethnocentric. But aside from that, Totality and Infinity is still of high regard and importance for Levinas’ view of ethics as proto-philosophy (and still poetically written).
But if we don’t understand why things matter, how can we know how to treat this new category of thing-being?
This is what David Gunkel calls “The Machine Question” in his book of the same title.Why do we *care* about anything?
Rather than seeing caring/valuing/meaning/mattering as side-effects of cognitive processes, Levinas says they are part of the most basic, fundamental kernel of being human.
In “The Machine Question”, David Gunkel suggests that Levinas is onto something important in terms of knowing how to formulate and understand the machine question.
Idea: people live in a comfortable bubble of manageability, a flow of enjoyment, until they meet real other people (who break into that bubble), who hold them to the standard of responding to another person, which is an ethical obligation to the other person's needs, as though the Other is your master and you are its slave, but not in a bad way.
I think the reason the book is very much longer than that paragraph is that it's trying to show phenomenologically that all of that follows from ontology.
(Which raises the questions: Did Levinas need ontology to understand ethics?
Considerato in se stesso, lo spazio illuminato, svuotato dalla luce dell’oscurità che lo riempie, non è niente.
Se il vuoto creato dalla luce nello spazio da cui essa caccia le tenebre non equivale al niente, anche di fronte all’assenza di qualsiasi oggetto particolare, tuttavia, questo vuoto c’è.
La luce, cacciando le tenebre, non interrompe il gioco incessante del c’è.
Il vuoto prodotto dalla luce resta uno spessore indeterminato che non ha un senso di per se stesso a prescindere dal discorso e che non ha ancora ragione del ritorno degli dei mitici.
Levinas opens our eyes to what was always, already there - the importance of the Other.
He adopts and critiques so much of Heidegger - and, actually, a good understanding of Being and Time is really important for navigating through this text; since so much of what Levinas is doing is a response to his former teacher.
The funniest and most haunting critique of Heidegger is this: "Dasein is never hungry"I would really only recommend this text to major philosophy junkies or those taking an upper-level seminar class (with a damn good professor).
Just return to this text at a later time) 3) Analytic philosophers
This is a kind of ease one develops when one has seen first hand the horrors that ensue from the fragmentation of morality.
Yoga later explained this to me in a different way, by different means, but I never found a western philospher whose writing on this topic I enjoyed so much.I do recommend reading this in a class if you have an opportunity,as I did - but i think if you've taken a philosophy class before and you try reading on your own, you might get alot out of it.
Levinas's first major treatment of his conception of ethics as first philosophy. At its center is a view of the ethical relation as fundamentally asymmetrical, due to the dual height and destitution of the Other. An ethics founded on the face-to-face, Levinas runs into trouble when he attempts to move "beyond the face" and offer a phenomenology of Eros that has been very pointedly critiqued by Irigaray.
Although Levinas' general ehitcal-phenomenological project is an important one, the Devil as usual lurks and dwells in the details. And, at a careful reading, there are many philosophically devilish details in this often convoluted essay.
Levinas has emerged as one of the four or five most influential European philosophers of the second half of the twentieth century, and Totality and Infinity should be considered his first major philosophical treatise. If you only read one book by Levinas, this ought to be the one.
