https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27126.Bitter_Is_the_New_Black
I've read the other reviews of this book and was horrified what people had to say about Jen. This book is real life.
Jen went from (as people say) a "bitchy stuck up rich snob" to an unemployed, insuranceless penny pincher and still managed to see the humor in her life.
Whether it's about gaining weight and the endless struggle to lose it, losing a job you love, struggling to make ends meet, losing friends, bad neighbors, nagging parents/siblings, etc.
So it probably won't be the next assigned reading in any college, but it's a great read that keeps you laughing out loud and I loved every minute of it.

Ok. I can not yet determine what makes me more angry- the fact that Jennifer wrote this book and how egotistical and boring she is, or the fact that I bought this ridiculous “memoir” about her pathetic life.
I wish I could give her some type of accolade, like the book was horrible but she is a good writer, but there is not one good thing I have to say.
The first chapter she rambles on about some business boat trip and doesn’t explain the relevance.
The next chapter she is talking about a friendship that deteriorated in high school and again doesn’t explain anything.
Do you think Jennifer will give me my $13.95 back?
The subtitle should actually be "Or, Why Blogs Are Not Books". The writing is ludicrously bad at times, the "characters" are all thoroughly unlikeable, and I've seen greater degrees of self-awareness emerge among pre-verbal children. And to make matters worse, the snark seems forced and mostly unfunny.
There is nothing deep and profound, no message about life...well...maybe there is a message...prehaps the message is that life is unexpected.
Or maybe I am reading it at a time in my life when things are happening unexpectedly.
I thoroughly enjoyed how self-centered and self-involved the main character is and the descriptions of her life are, truly, laugh out loud funny.
It would be a great vacation read because it's easy and quick and for that reason, I would buy it at a used book store because you will be done with it in a weekend.
I am looking forward to reading her other books.
This book was a total waste of time. I only read it to complete an assignment. A memoir written by a totally immature, obnoxious individual. I threw the book in the trash. It was not worth giving to The Friends of the library. I was a friend by not giving it to them.
I think that this is my last "blog into book" that I plan to read.
I've read a few now and it has finally sunk in that a good blog does not necessarily make a decent book.
Some parts were very funny but overall the book was just sort of pointless.
Plus, the footnotes were really annoying and 90% of the time they weren't funny or even necessary so I stopped reading them for the last section of the book.Jen's ego is overwhelming and her "witty" comments and slams aren't interesting or even original.
I kept trying to like it.
I got this book from a very kind friend and read it while traveling. While it was somewhat amusing and had some funny parts, I did NOT like the main character. I thought she was self-serving and foolish for having no self-control. It is based off of the author's personal story and I appreciate what she has gone through but her antics were ridiculous. I couldn't identify and found the character very annoying.
Jen Lancaster's style of writing best mirrors the interior monologue that I have ongoing in my life.
While a memoir, I found myself laughing out loud and nodding my head in agreement throughout much of the book.
Her wit and humor are so similar to my own and perhaps that is why I so thoroughly enjoyed the book.
Through her success, I guess I now have become a devotee of the Jen Lancaster fan club and eagerly look forward to reading her other book and searching her website.
She like many of the characters in this book disappear never to be heard from again.Ultimately Jen and Fletch make it out okay though they had a hard time in their lives.I will say that since I read the other memoirs you can definitely see that Jen's writing and stories have gotten better over time.
But I feel for Jen since it was definitely a hard thing for her to swallow.Jen's family is a bit much to deal with in book #1.
I loved the author and rooted for her the whole time I read the book.
I LOVE that she's a bitch and says things often without considering how it's going to make others feel (especially since I am guilty of the same thing).
I especially love the part where she tells off her terrible boss.
The book had a casual and personal tone to it which made it easy to read and HILARIOUS.
My only problem with it was the fact that there were several editorial mistakes - Like the word "were" would be in a sentence where it should say "would" - which tells me that the whole book was spell checked but not read thoroughly enough before publication...sloppy.
Don't look at the reviews before you read this book!
I didn't and I still liked the book.
Reading books by new authors as well as helped me out so far because I'm falling more and more in love with authors.
I will definitely try to find another book of hers and see if I would like to continue more of her books.
I have no idea when I will read the next book from Jen - just know that one day I will have another one of her books in my hands.
Jen Lancaster fully admits that at the height of the dot-com boom (heck, in the years leading up to it, too) she was rather a demanding beyotch.But after the American economy took a nose dive in the early '00s she and her husband Fletch both lost their well-paid jobs and had to downsize their life until they were living almost at the breadline, not knowing how they would pay their rent.
Jen decided to blog about their troubles (yes, she's a blooker) and eventually this book was born...Bitter Is The New Black describes their riches to rags story, and has to have the best subtitle of all time...
(Are you ready?
She lives a good life in an extravagant apartment, has a six figure salary, and is the VP at her company.But wait!
That's just the cake and the icing needs to be added; Jen has just been offered a promotion at work-can you say raise?!But in the midst of her fairytale,life happens.
Jen is fired instead of promoted and she is forced to live off the "dole" (aka unemployment).
Forced to move out of her upscale apartment and into the *gasp!* ghetto, Jen is forced to re-evaluate her life and the financial decisions she had made.
The bitch had it coming.
But one can't help but laugh with Jen Lancaster, rather than at her.
Somehow, this self absorbed PITA is endearing, probably because she says the things to idiots that we all want to say but are too couth to actually say.I don't want to call this memoir a "coming of age" story, since Lancaster is already a "grown up" when the book begins, but it is in a lot of ways similar--a life altering event forces her to actually grow up.Loved it--this is a laugh out loud memoir!
I first read this book in 2010, loved it, and read the rest of Jen's cleverly-titled memoirs in rapid succession. I decided to reread this on audio now while we moved houses. It was a great distraction while unpacking boxes!Still enjoyable and I liked the narration. I appreciate how Jen and Fletch reluctantly had to take a walk in others' shoes when both were laid off and were forced to reevaluate what's important.
Jen has a cushy job where she is on the fast track to success. After 9-11, she is laid off and spends the next 2+ years trying to find a job, any job while discovering just how much she took her good life (and spending habits) for granted. This book is laugh out loud funny. It definitely made me happy that my spending habits are in check.
Hilarious, sarcastic and vividly candid. You can't stand her but you can't help rooting for her either. But there was satisfaction from seeing smug people get their comeuppance.
This is the true tale of a shrewish, spoiled girl with a mean streak, who loses everything, and then starts building her life all over again.
Bitter was birthed on the author's blog, Jennsylvania, which is still going strong, although it centers mostly around book tours these days (poor Jen).Strangest of all, perhaps, is that I have very little in common with Jennifer Lancaster.
Our politics, clothing, eating habits, and personal styles starkly oppose one another.
She's a likable person, even with her fashion mania and porkchop fetish.
Bitter and its sequels are a great inspiration to anyone who is starting over or living a life that needs to change.
Ok! Maybe I wasn't in the mood for the "humor" of this book, but Jen totally frustrated me, and in the end I still thought "she didnt get it" ("It" being life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness- so to speak).. I am really glad that I borrowed this from the library instead of purchasing it and contributing to the bank account of the Condescending, Egomaniac, Self centered Smart A**!
I'm slowly working my way through this. I find there's only so much of Jen that I can take. This gal takes us on death-defyingly new heights of self-centeredness, narcissism and superficiality. And she's so unapologetic for it too! You've got to love (or hate) her for that at least. Note: I've got no immediate plans to pick it back up anytime soon.
I appreciated the Chicago setting of this book, but when I counted more than 13 obvious editorial errors, I got a bit disgusted. Hire a proofreader, please! However, not the author's fault. Despite my resistance, I grew to like her by the end of the story.
I have to admit--it is a great title.When I found this gem at a used-book sale for only $2, I decided to give it a try because I did find some of Lancaster's "Tao of Martha" amusing.
But if I'd thought that book was superficial, she comes across like Mother Teresa in Tao by comparison.
Slowly, Lancaster has to come to terms with the fact that she's not as perfect or sought-after as she'd thought, as no one--from the high-finance world to retail--will hire her.The big message of this book is that she learns what's really important in life and becomes a (slightly) changed person.
I guess I should like this book because it is about a woman who lost her job and is torn between her old life of prada bags and her new life of taking the bus, but in the end I just didn't like her.
She was witty and kept up with the interviews and resumes but I just thought she was ridiculous.
She needed to vent to someone about all her troubles and she created a website to do this and the right people saw it and offered her a book deal.
I'm not going to hate on her for that, i just wasn't that into the book.
Really, this was a mesmerizing book.
I couldn't put it down, despite wanting to save the bulk of it for the plane.
The author makes no bones about who she is (e.g. she fits the subtitle perfectly) and you really hate her initially, but as her fortunes drop she goes through a transformation...now she still is a condescending, egomaniacal, self-centered smart-ass, but in a way that seems a lot less vicious and a lot more funny.
I've read the second book as well and found it just as good, so am looking forward to reading the third...on the plane, darn it!
Swings between pretty funny and 'where is the author so I can smack her'. However, for me the final score was tipped slightly to the obnoxious side, I didn't find Jen Lancasters antics nearly as endearing as she did.
I so felt this book. I lost my job that I made really good money at a few days after 9-11 so I know what the times were like. Funny look at that time and being "on the dole"
I never thought I'd read this; every time I heard or saw it mentioned I dismissed it as fluffy chick-lit lite, a la Candace Bushnell or Sophie Kinsella---not that there's anything wrong with that, it's just not really my thing.
Then a woman with whom I work and whose reading taste I respect read BITNB for her book club and pronounced it "pretty good".
I was hooked from the first page.This book is hilarious.
I laughed so much at one point that my husband got mad at me because he couldn't hear the TV.

Jen Lancaster is hilarious!
Her fall from a dot-com Vice President's job with a fabulous apartment and lots of designer accessories to the unemployment line and a not-so-great apartment in a questionable neighborhood is something we can all relate to, even if we're lucky enough not to have experienced it first-hand.
Jen started out as a blogger, and it shows; her writing has a speech-like directness.
Her writing is sure and secure, with a very casual first person/in your face feeling.
This is every bit as good as Bridget Jones and Shopaholic, and way better than The Nanny Diaries and The Devil Wears Prada.
