https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3896.Betty_Crocker_s_Picture_Cookbook_Facsimile_Edition
The recipes were from the old Betty Crocker's 1950 edition cookbook before they changed all of the recipes to make them "healthy." I would suggest to anyone that likes to really cook to get this reproduction of the 1950 edition of the Betty Crocker's cookbook.
Have you ever wondered why the current recipes in the newest edition don't taste anywhere near as good as the ones in the boxes at the store?
Betty Crocker and other companies likely make more money off people buying their boxed cakes than off their recipe books.
I would suggest going back to making the original cakes and recipes they taste like cake.
Loving the classic recipes.
On a different note, I was struck by the section at the end, about how a housewife ought to take care of herself, BECAUSE "If you're tired from overwork /Household chores you're bound to shirk." (!!!) Don't wear yourself out, ladies, because then who will clean and cook?
And this helpful hint: "If you feel tired, lie down on the floor on your back, put your hands over your head, close your eyes, and relax for 3-5 minutes." Did you catch that?
And several recipes call for 1/8tsp pepper.
Careful there, Betty, you or you might end up tasting that!
Like salad in jello, rice rings, cream cheese & anchovy appetizers, sandwich cheese loafs, etc.
The structuring of the recipes takes some getting used to if you are not familiar with cookbooks like these.
The book is very charming with it's trivia, history, cartoons, rhymes, songs, tips and reminders.
I made two recipes with this: Cinnamon Rolls and Devil's Food Cake.
Cinnamon Rolls came out wonderful (just not as puffy as I'd like) and the Devil's Food Cake was a disaster.
If you are interested in getting this cookbook, make sure it's more for the nostalgia or the history of it than for the actual recipes.
Oh grandmother you were so right - some of the best biscuits I have ever made came courtesy of this book!I love the fact that it is so retro too, the pictures crack me up along with some of the content (oh the 50's you were so funny with your woman in the house & no where else attitude).
The retro feel of it also will make you think "WHOA!!" when reading some of the recipes - because of the ingredients.
All in all I think it is a great reference for "old school" cooking and a go to for classic basic recipes.
If you own no other cook book, get this one. My grandmother used it. Every single thing I have ever tried in it has turned out perfectly, and there's a thousand variations on the basic recipes. The cottage pudding, scones, and black midnight cake in particular are wonderful. Granted, there's some fun to be had with the section at the back on how housewives can combat fatigue and doldrums by fantasizing about going out on the town waltzing or lying prone for a while on the kitchen floor, but it's still and excellent book.
This is my favorite cookbook because it is such a classic, it is so nostalgic, and it has awesome memories that are attached to it. Both of my grandmothers used it, and one of them gave it to us.Great information in the front, menu ideas, great pictures.Favorite recipes from it:-the Biscuit recipe. I have it memorized.-Deluxe Gingerbread-Brownies-Texas Rice-Peach cobblerand so much more.
This is my favorite cookbook and the one that I learned to cook from. I've got my mom's 1956 copy now and still use it. I love the little comments about who provided the recipe and serving suggestions and have been known to treat this cookbook like a collection of short stories reading it cover to cover. It is a great cookbook and the recipes are simple and easy to follow. If you think that scratch cooking is too much work using this book may change your mind.
A re-publication of the original Betty Crocker cookbook. When I was growing up, this was one of two Betty Crocker cookbooks to which we always turned. Most of our recipes for pies and cakes are from here. I love the concept of key recipes followed by all of the variations. I definitely should pull this out more often to try new things.
I so enjoyed giving Holly a new copy of this classic - totally '50s with very few vegetable recipes and lots of CAKE! I taught myself to bake with this book as a teenager and still have my mother's original copy.
Okay, I have not actually READ this entire cookbook. I have the original from 1950. But I have looked through it. I love it! I love these old cookbooks. I received my copy from a friend of my mom's who presumably bought it new.
loved it

My Grandma gave me this cookbook so I loved it even before I looked at the recipes. That being said, I love this cookbook even more now that I have looked through the whole thing.All the recipes I've made so far have been delicious. There's a huge variety to choose from and there are a lot of family style/home cooked kind of recipes.Great traditional cookbook to have around, I definitely recommend it!
Very good love the recipes
Another classic cookbook your mother or grandmother had. A must for your collection.
My favorite go-to cookbook.
I grew up with my mom's 1970's version and found it the best cookbook.
I went online and my choices were the 1950's throwback cookbook (this one), or a new "updated" one published only a year or two ago.
After reading reviews, I opted for the classic version.
The only disappointment about the 1950's version is the index.
And the pages want to rip out of the ringbound cover quite often.
It would have been sturdier as a hardback cookbook, not ringbound.
For these reasons, I rated this cookbook with 4 instead of 5 stars.
This reproduction is the same version of the Betty Crocker Cookbook that my grandmother had, so my mom and I are happy to have access to many of the recipes that she used.
(Ex: The Lord Baltimore, which I have not yet tried.) Charlotte desserts and meat (or vegetable) aspics, which seem to have fallen out of fashion, are also included.Because this cookbook is older, don't expect a flashy, full page photo for every single recipe.
And the recipes all call for butter, sugar, frying in oil, etc.
There are no "skinny" versions of recipes in the margins.
One of things you need to know as you read this book is that some of the recipes include uncooked eggs, which in that case you just need to figure out a way to cook the eggs first.
My mom used the recipe Texas Hash from this cook book and it was really yummy!
After reading parts of this book I put together a menu from it that I plan to make for dinner some time.
One thing that I think is cool is that the pictures are the original pictures from the 1950's edition.
I love this book and I really want to encourage you to read it!
I wanted a copy of this cookbook my entire adult life - ever since I left home and had to leave mom's treasured old book behind I've coveted it.
One Christmas (a few years ago now - I don't remember when this came out) I was finally gifted this facsimile edition and as far as I can tell, this is the very same book.
With the delicious Caramel (Burnt Sugar) Cake and Caramel Icing (on page 130).
The only birthday cake I ever really want to have!
This cookbook is one of my prized possessions, not only for the delicious old recipes but because of the priceless sentimental value it holds.
Awesome cookbook. That amalgam of hundreds of "typical" American women really knows its stuff around the kitchen, tell you what! And here my wife and I are not even as good at cooking as some goddamn amalgam!!Get the 1950 version of this, then try to figure out what a "hot oven" is, as opposed to a "medium" or "very hot" oven. Burn yourself with a flat iron -- was it "hot," "very hot," or "OhjesusmaryandjosephwhydidyouDOthat?!?!" Hmm?Also, who uses cakes of yeast nowadays? Germans?Overall, two thumbs in my pie.
This is a wonderful basic cookbook. I love the time capsule that it is. All of that aside, I haven't tried a single recipe from it that didn't work out. My buttermilk pancakes are straight from here. I also learned some good kitchen techniques like using towels in the oven to help keep food warm for serving. There are some interesting novelties...like I learned what deviled ham was.
I grew up with this cookbook in my mother's kitchen and always poured over the illustrations and tidbits on creating a lovely home. I was lucky enough to stumble upon an old edition years ago and snatched it up. The recipes are still good ( most of them.) I don't think I will ever make Kix chicken, but you never know.
This is more than a great retro cookbook. The 1950 edition is a treasure chest of recipes that even those of us who grew up in the 1970s will recognize from our mothers' kitchens. The desserts and breads are especially tasty. Some main dishes may need an extra bit of seasoning for today's tastes--but an equal number are classic comfort foods that will remind most of us of Mom.
The best cookbook ever published anywhere. Love it love it love it! My mother had this cookbook and it was a tattered stained mess but I learned how to cook from it. The pictures, the little editorial notes -- like a trip back to childhood's happy hours. And I still use it! Every week! (Thankfully my sister gave me, as a gift, a brand-new facsimile copy of the original.)
I mean, don't get this book because you want a bunch of useful recipes, get it to laugh at the Fifties and to feel relief that you no longer have to make a man a ham in order to assure your financial future. (I have used a bunch of pie recipes from here, actually, and they've all turned out great.) Just get it. Get it!
I have the 1950's edition and it's fantastic, with vintage photos and cute line drawings as well. This cookbook has very easy to follow recipes for making all sorts of dishes. My favorite section is the "Cookies" one: it's loaded with recipes (some quite unique) and tips on baking.
This is a reprint of the original 1950's cookbook. My mom wore her original copy out. I purchased a copy of the reprint version for everyone in the family a few years ago. It is a piece of history with information that is valid today.
The cookbook I love more than any other!
It's falling apart, but still in use!
This is the best cook book! I love the simplistic recipes and old school favorites! This book is an essential for the lovers of true scratch cooking!
