https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110349.Out_on_a_Limb
I figured anyone that successful in Hollywood must know what she was talking about.So, when Shirley wrote about taking a hot bath every morning and placing her quartz crystals at all four corners of the bath to "replenish her energies" I went straight down and bought myself some crystals.
Of course, not having a personal servant to cook me breakfast was a problem, but I figured if I just concentrated on enough crystals, I would be as wealthy and successful as Shirley in no time.
It was all going so well, until...There she was in Peru being beamed up by aliens.WTF???ALIENS????SHIRLEY YOU WINGNUT!!!!!!Goddamnit.
This is a book for someone who has a thirst for spiritual experience.
Shirley MacLaine has written another beautiful autobiography that brilliantly captures her own spiritual quest and adventures.
You will not be disappointed.As the author of a spiritually-themed book, I appreciate any book that provides food for the soul.
It was a delightful read that intimately connected me with the engaging personality of Ms. MacLaine.Having already had my own out-of-body experience, I was easily able to relate to the author's experience.
You may just come to those beliefs for yourself after reading this book.
Shirley Maclaine the actress takes us on her journey towards spiritual enlightenment a thoughtful take on her quest to know why we are all here and have we had ‘outside’ influences along the way….
I remember reading this book when I was 17… looking back I see what a huge influence it has had on my life… I know Shirley got a lot of flack when this originally came out in 1983, but as the years have passed so many more people have actually written on this subject, I believe this book should be given another look.
I loved this book when i read it 18 years ago.
Shirley has written a lovely book describing a period of time when experiences of an esoteric nature were dominating her life.
She went through that period of time where seeking out those experiences outweighed many other considerations, including how she was viewed by her peers and the public.This is a simple book that manages to have a magical quality as she describes some telling moments in her life.
Review to come.
and then in 1987 with "Dancing in the Light".Think I read two others, yet to be located.In Athens, in 1978, one of the teaching staff got me to read Lobsang Rampa's books.Two was more than enough.And later I heard that he lived in an English suburb, so who could blame him.Before that,in 1977, in Sydney I read a Carlos Castenada, and wasted money on two other books of his,but at least it wasn't compulsory to read them!!!But happily I was reading Sheldon Kopp, Viktor Frankl and loads of poets like Cavafy, Elizabeth Bishop, Wordsworth,Primo Levi and excellent novelists like Colette , Marcel Proust, Isaac Bashevis Singer,Henry Handel Richardson.Shirley REappeared in my Reading Life in 1987.
I give Shirley MacLaine top marks for honesty and I still enjoy her writing style very much.
Some of what she came up with was very inspiring; an eternal soul, the chance to continue to improve as an entity, the possibility of life beyond this earth.
She had trust in some people for whom I had none, but she knew them personally and I didn't.
Maybe, he was a composite of multiple real people.
I still find her an inspiring individual and will read the next in her series of memoirs, but I did like the first two better than this one.
Good book. Very interesting to hear about some of her life experiences and how she learned to open up to the universe’s treasures
I liked Shirley as an actress. Which is why I picked this book up at a used books sale.Huge disappointment. New Age nonsense.
Actually 4.5 stars, rounded up! I thoroughly enjoyed this book, the first of Shirley Maclaine's books I've read. I appreciated her thirst for knowledge of spirit and the universe.
----- honestly it might have been hilarious if i hadn't already come across this road through (so freakin' many) other reads.
this one started off w/ reincarnation, which is fine, b/c that's really just a bit of philosophical thinking, and i've no more problem w/ that than i do any other bit of philosophical thought.
i stopped right there, thinking, "i know where this is going." so, i took a trip hopping through the book and reading a bit every few pages until i got to the end.
This is around the same time scientology started up, I'm pretty sure, and I'm glad she didn't get caught up in that.
Okay, so this book is by the very funny actress Shirley MacLaine.
This book is about her thought processes and rather amazing experiences during that time.
Whether you believe them or not, the books are entertaining and really do make you wonder about meaning behind coincidences in life.The only weakpoint is that the memoir format allows Shirley to go on a little too much about her love affair of the time - obviously this had more significance to her than the rest of us.
Extremely tedious.
Embarrassingly overconfident.
Convinced that she understands and can apply science to provide evidence for things like vibrational energies and the eternal nature of the soul.
Shockingly racist--full of Orientalism.
Look, I'm not the target audience but I'll give your ideas a try.
But you have to actually try to convince me!
You are convinced that you can get predictions of the future that are meaningful but instead of supplying surprising predictions that don't come due until after the publication of the book, you give examples of past predictions that just aren't falsifiable.
While I'm not on the same page as Maclaine when it comes to the after-life, I do admire her as a great writer.
I think she's been written off as a nut, except when she's acting, and then you can't argue with her talents.
But as someone who is writing, content aside, she's great.
The beauty of this book is not only the chronicling of her spiritual journey, but this love story she shares between a married U.S. Senator (anonymous) and herself.
The moments they share, the secret hideaways, the touching notes and longing looks....during parts of this book you almost feel like you're reading a love story.
She has a unique way of thinking about things-just like her personality-not afraid to ask questions or just state her thoughts about what is happening around her and what she might not fully understand.
She seeks answers by reading, talking to others, traveling to sacred places and by taking quiet time to listen within herself.
I like how she takes time to soak in a hot bath to review her thoughts!
Her fame and wealth allow her to travel and do what she wants when she wants-but she seems to use and share what she discovers in ways that benefits herself as well as others.
Ya, sé que este libro fue motivo de crítica popular (al menos según ciertos programas repetidos del año uno que veo en la tele, jaja), pero a mí me gustó mucho.
Me pareció sincera, me pareció interesante, y aprendí cosas tan diversas como la técnica adecuada para no pasar frío cuando se aloja en las montañas andinas.Me gustó que ella tuviera el coraje de contar su historia.
Ella no es de las que tiene que ir a inventar el cuento del tío para ganar plata, porque todos sabemos que es ricachona.
Yo le concedo, al menos, el beneficio de la duda.Me encantan las autobiografías y me gustan esos temas.
Shirley keeps surprising me with her life stories. One does get a feeling she is an energetic and fun-having person. This is a journey to her inner-self and to openness to more intangible things (reincarnation, soul,...) in life. Describing all the conflicts that this causes in her as well as the thorough analysis makes this book a pleasure read and a good learning tool. I guess it could also be reading list for the topics mentioned as the reader would get quite a lot of information about different authors and books.


I read this when I went through my "new age" phase because I really admire Shirley Maclaine as an actress and as a woman.
She took a lot of heat for this book and it was the butt of many jokes.
I often wonder if she were a man if it would have been so derided.
Having said that, the problem with the book for me was the style of the writing.
It was almost like a comic book script and sort of along the lines of a Danielle Steele type book so I can't give it a real, huge like.
However, it is entertaining and a fun read.
I really love this book. I've read it many times - often the book to reach for when the libraries and bookstores are closed. I found it at a low point in my life, and welcomed it for the suggestion that there really is more to life than we can see and analyze. This is a memoir- many others have written "how-to" books along these lines, and I don't like them nearly as well, or at all. I prefer experience, and there are many wonder-ful experiences written about here.
I love Shirley MacLaine, she is a great story teller, drawing you in and making you feel everything she is going through. I love books that make me think about possibilities of things not being what you think they are.This is a good read, I read it in an afternoon, and then wished there were more so I could keep reading it.
Honestly, this book was full of crap. It covers everything from MacLaine's belief in reincarnation to extraterrestrial life...etc. There is way to much information about her love affair with a married British politician. Half the time it reads like a fiction novel. The logic is so messed up...
I won't give a review of this book because it falls under self-help to me and who am I to say whether this book will enlighten someone or not. I think MacLaine is a good writer, but I had this funny sense of her putting on airs that had me rolling my eyes periodically.
The book that began my spiritual journey of hope.. that God had not forsaken me and it was ok to feel different than everyone else. It also started my life long love of Yoga.. This books holds a very special place in my heart.
"Out on a Limb" suggests that Maclaine is an extremely credulous person — the mediums she met got a lot out of her money — but the book also reveals her commitment to reading widely and forming her own spirituality.
Historian Catherine Albanese was correct when she argued in "A Republic of Mind & Spirit" that Maclaine is a spiritual eclectic, mashing together 400 years of esoterica, and throwing in large doses of New Age bodily improvement, UFO hunting, and a romanticized view of Buddhism for good measure.
The end of "Out on a Limb," in which Maclaine organizes séances and preaches her gospel of the New Age, is evidence of what Albanese calls Maclaine's reinvigoration of occultism.
Ms. Maclaine is quite a unique individual. This book is semi-biographical but mainly philosophical. She presents (all) her views on life...transcendental beliefs (confident she lived in Atlantis), alien visits from space and the 'haunting' of her desert house.The book was an insight into her inner being. Yes, there could be aliens that have visited the earth and yes, her house may have hauntings but living in the ancient city of Atlantis.....pretty far fetched.However I really enjoyed the book as I have enjoyed the movies she has starred in.
An interesting read. How many ideologies are out there? How many theses can be developed. I remember a statement I read years ago that suggested if what we believe makes a loving, charitable, peace loving person one should go for it; if it makes you a selfish, hateful person then get away from it. I place that thought right at the end of this book.
I really liked the spunk that Shirley McLain shows by baring her soul in this book. The title really tells us that she is sharing her deepest experiences with us. After reading this book, many years ago, I took a weekend workshop with Shirley McLain in NYC. It was a pivotal point in my spiritual growth. I am grateful to Shirley for going out on that limb for me.
Life ExpandingFive stars because every one should read it!Spellbinding, fascinating, heartwarming, inspiring, life-changing, eye-opening. Shirley McLaine shares her spiritual growth fearlessly.
