https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/643809.Tarzan_and_the_Lost_Empire
So once again Tarzan has found a lost city in Africa.
Man, there sure a lot of lost cities there.
This one is ancient Romans, and Tarzan discovers the cities while he's searching for the lost son of a friend.
Overall not bad but honestly it just feels like we've been here before.
Two lost cities at war, Tarzan in the middle, yadda yadda.
That being said, the fact it was ancient Romans was pretty cool and the story wasn't bad.
I guess it's a matter of either you like Tarzan or you don't, because the stories don't really vary all that much it seems.
This volume in the Tarzan series appealed to me because I've got a soft spot for lost civilization tales.The jungle lord is approached by one of his civilized (European) friends, and asked to search a vast canyon where the guy's son, Erich Von Harben, is believed to have disappeared in search of a "lost tribe of Israel." What Von Harben found instead were two rival Roman city-states, perfectly preserved since the canyon was colonized in the 1st Century.
And what action there was disappointed me a bit--particularly in the arena.I must give credit where it's due, though: when Tarzan is paired against a gladiator, his goose is cooked until the fortuitous intervention of a newfound Roman friend.
Another lost city story. This time it's Romans.
Another winner in the Tarzan series. No matter what character's point of view ER Burroughs takes, he continually succeeds in captivating me. This book is no exception. Tarzan is fascinating hero, who ventures into a forbidden, untravelled territory in search of his friend's lost son. Nkima makes a memorable and colorful companion, one who is filled with rich histrionics and comic relief. The Roman Legionnaires provide a portrayal which I am sure has been culled relentlessly for Hollywood gladiator movies. If you've seen it in Gladiator, Pompeii and Spartacus, it was ascribed here, first. Well done!
Tarzan goes searching for a missing German explorer and discovers a lost Roman colony in the heart of Africa.
Despite being immediately taken prisoner he quickly learns latin and make powerful friends.
A touch of Spartacus here, as Tarzan dominates the Games and gladiatorial combats in the Colosseum, and leads a desperate revolt against Caesar.
Modestly declining the position himself, Tarzan, never the friend of democracy, appoints his preferred successor for the people.
As usual Tarzan is assisted by the Waziri who appear when needed most, slays lions, fights alongside the great apes, rescues his friends and reunites sundered hearts before heading happily home.
I found it very engaging. The thought of having a part of the ancient Roman Civilization still preserved in the middle of a forlorn African valley is very interesting.
The Romans are coming, the Romans are coming. What a great book.
I’m surprised he still has any brains left at this point.
He is getting older.
And there’s still 13 books to go in the series.
And I’m surprised that he couldn’t discover Von Harben’s trail from his tent when in previous books he’s followed much weaker and older spoor across miles and miles.
Crusaders perhaps?Footnote: 1) There are so many inconstancies that I’m constantly having to close my eyes to in order to enjoy these books.Fave scenes: descending the fissure, the diving competition, the ‘fight’ with the bull apes and Gabula’s revenge.
On the surface, it was a lot like the others, lost civilization, young man falls in love with girl from lost civilization, Tarzan finds lost civilization as well...but in my opinion it was better than the others because the lost civilization was an offshoot of Ancient Rome!
Ancient Rome in her emperor and gladiator days.
I was delighted by this book.
And Tarzan was a gladiator!
Solution: Once Tarzan defeated his opponent (of course), he just tossed him out of the arena.
Amazing book.
Damzel in distress; checkApes in need of saving; checkLost European tribes; checkI like the Tarzan series, but some of them are 'mailed in' efforts. This is one. Character development is weak the plot is basic and the scenarios Tarzan finds himself in are routine, but I'll be back for Tarzan at the Earth's Core in a few months.
This book is almost a duplicate of Tarzan, Lord of the Jungle except instead of two rival medieval cities hidden in an isolated valley, it is two rival Roman cities, and Burroughs forgot to settle the love triangle and whether the young man Tarzan is searching for decides to stay with his lady love or return to civilization.
Tarzan finds himself caught between two warring Roman cities, descended from Roman legions that got lost in Africa back in the day. Plot is Burroughs' usual one of lost cities, but the Roman angle makes it more interesting. Read this one as a kid years ago and loved it.
Another good Tarzan adventure.
Edgar Rice Burroughsin "Tarzan taistelee jälleen" (Karisto, 1942) on sarjan kolmastoista romaani. Apinoiden kuningas päätyy tällä kertaa etsimään vuoristoon kadonutta tutkimusmatkailijaa, ja päätyy reissullaan syrjäisen laakson pohjukkaan rakennettuun kaupunkiin, jossa legioonalaisten jälkeläiset elävät kuten Antiikin Roomassa aikanaan. Jos juoni kuulostaa aavistuksen verran tutulta, voi se johtua siitä, että sarjan edellisessä osassa seikkailtiin keskiaikaisessa valtakunnassa, jonka olivat viidakkoon perustaneet ristiretkeläiset... "Tarzan taistelee jälleen" sisältää muitakin aikaisemmista romaaneista tuttuja piirteitä, kuten sotaa käyvät kaksoiskaupungit, paikalliseen kaunottareen rakastuvan ulkopuolisen, mustasukkaisen kilpakosijan ja ainakin pari ihmisryöstöä.Perusvarmaa settiä, siis, niin hyvässä kuin pahassa!
Every bit as enjoyable as the previous one, but a little too similar in plot. In #11 we had a valley populated with medieval knights, in this one he simply went back and created a hidden valley where the Roman Empire still exists, with two cities each ruled by their own despotic Caesar complete with slaves, centurions and gladiator fights in a Coliseum. It was still fun, and had I read this one prior to #11, I might well have given this 4 stars and the other 3.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
Another predictable Tarzan book about a lost civilization. Some Tarzan fans might like this one but I prefer to read stories with Tarzan wrestling lions and great apes in the jungle. More animals and less people, like his earlier adventures. This adventure's pretty flat and dull on most parts. Goshs!! if you compare 'Tarzan of the Apes' with this novel you'll feel what I'm feeling right now..
Tarzan and the Lost Empire (Tarzan #12) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine Books 1928) (Fiction). Tarzan and a young German find a remnant of the Roman Empire hidden in the jungles of Africa. This tale introduces Tarzan's monkey companion Nkima and reintroduces his faithful native sidekick Muviro, sub-chief of the Waziri Warriors. My rating: 7/10, finished 1973.
The following stories sure aren't the original three but this one was good and all Roman. This one, in particular, seemed a little more thought through than the last couple when everything just happened to fall into place at the very end, although the end was wrapped up pretty quickly.
Again a lost civilization to be found in the African wilderness. This time Tarzan can show off his classical education when he encounters two Roman settlements and incidentally kicks off a slave revolt. Call me Spartacus!
No one had ERB's imagination. If there was a way to involve Tarzan with any culture from history (along with a lot that never existed at all), he thought of it. This one was fun, but even more contrived than usual.
Entertaining, light fluff. Tarzan vs the Romans - what did you expect, honestly?
I seem to remember liking this one quite a bit.
I read the hardback and loved it.
Even though the Tarzan stories are over 60 years old they remain timeless. These books are fantastic reading. These books make all the movies and cartoons seem meaningless. Highly recommended
The old lost cities theme, but well done. If nothing else, people learn not to mess with Tarzan
Not terrible but still a pretty generic "Tarzan and the XXX Lost Civilization" novel. Not as completely ridiculous on the Roman stuff as I was expecting. But still way pulp-y.
I admit it. The old Tarzan books are a guilty pleasure of mine. In this one Tarzan finds a pocket of Roman civilization in the jungle (just go with it.) Jane's not in it, which is too bad.
this needs to be made into a series, it could go on for years and years
Tarzan Book 12
