https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25052.Mrs_Piggle_Wiggle_s_Magic
I thought the book was cute, easy to read and the solutions, although out there (hello Radish Cure) were believable enough.That said, I was disappointed in Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's Magic.
That made me sad - because, as I said, I really enjoyed Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle.Another thing I disliked, and this is more personal preference, but the 20 page chapters were really difficult to read in one sitting.
I could read out loud for 20 minutes and complete a chapter before bedtime, but I was constantly having to split them up with this one.If you want to introduce your children to Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle, don't bother with this book - get the first.
In short, there’s absolutely no magic in this sequel. Unlike the original Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle, in which the cures were inventive and writing quite funny, Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle’s Magic depends on silly magical potions sprinkled through a book that’s only occasionally amusing. Stick with the first one.
This woman can do no wrong.
Distraught Mom calls Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle after sending kids and Dad off to school and work.
Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle has kids stop over on the way home from school and gives them magic powder/formula that will miraculously foil their misbehavior (why kids don't ever seem to question what they're delivering to Mom and Dad I'll never quite understand).
Kids arrive home from school and Mom, still wearing her apron from and having barely broken a sweat, serves kids a freshly baked treat.
Mom applies magic powder/formula at opportune moment and misbehavior miraculously begins to dissipate.
PIGGLE-WIGGLE’S MAGIC is the second of four books by Betty Macdonald, in which an energetic, eccentric widow cures children of bad habits (1947-1957).
The pattern of out-of-control children returned magically to normal became repetitive for me--but would not for a child.For me, two chapters stood out: “The Never-Want-to-go-to-Schooler” (negatively) and “The Bad Table-Manners Cure” (positively).
Lester models impeccable table manners and gently corrects Christopher: “Christopher’s mouth was open but full, he had whipped cream on his upper lip and crumbs on his chin.
PIGGLE-WIGGLE’S MAGIC told me that her nieces and nephews love Mrs. P-W and delight in making up bad habits for her to cure.
I like this book because I like magic and wizards and money and all. I like Lester because he teached a boy how to eat properly. So, like, every day, and five days, Lester stayed and then leaved the next day, I think.
Don’t get me wrong it was still amazing and interesting. But it wasn’t as creative as the first book. Instead of smart cures she uses special powders. I still love this book and would recommend it to anyone who likes the Mary Poppins theme!
In the Piggle-Wiggle world, there is a magic cure for everything: interrupting, bad table manners, not wanting to go to school, and all the moms (and occasional dads) can rest at ease knowing she’s there to take the tough cases out of their hands.
Where can I buy the powder for the magic that is the Interrupter's Cure? I need it plz.
These are such a delight to read and listen to! We all really enjoy finding out how Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle solves the childrens problems. The reader on the audio has the perfect voice for these stories. That being said...I think book 1 and 3 are better than book 2...krb 6/12/17
For example, the "heedless" girl who runs around klutzily breaking everything is administered the "Cure for Heedless Breakeritis" powder and magically becomes graceful the next day, never to klutz it up again.Sorry, but that's just not a compelling story.We still see the amusing depiction of the mothers one-upping each other with their advice phone calls, and there are other stories in here that are better than Heedless Breakeritis, but this one illustrates my beef with the entire book as a whole.
I do, however, enjoy the last story about Mr. Piggle-Wiggle's treasure, if only because it gives us a rare insight into Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's character.Moral of the story: read the first book; it's better.
Owen (8 yrs old) and I finished this book up.
We giggled our way through pages each night...
I was hoping that Owen was secretly picking up on lessons the magical Mrs. Piggle Wiggle was trying to teach these not so well behaved kids.
I must say though, MY favorite chapter was the last one.
I just cringe to admit that I got all teary eyed… It really was a sweet book filled with wonderful magical lessons.
I just wish there was a real Mrs. Piggle Wiggle I could call!!!
Owen wants to read the other books in the series now.
Read to the kids. I don't think this book has the original charm of the first book but there are some areas where it is more polished and in some ways I'm glad they dispensed with the "practical wisdom" cures (which were fairly far-fetched anyway) and just went straight to magic powders that did amusing things. It also highlighted for the kids just how deplorable some of these bad habits and behaviours are!
This book makes me smile every time I open it. The old-fashioned innocence of a simpler time mixed with the most spectacularly creative magical cures ever gets me every time. I wish every neighborhood had a Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle for correcting bad behavior. Plus, the last chapter with the treasure hunt for the last of the hidden money is nothing short of a child's dream come true. By far my favorite of all her books.
I read this series to my kids at the beginning of every school year. They love it! The whole series is great for tacking some of those "quirks" that kids have such as tattling, picking up after themselves, listening, crying (over the tiniest of things!) and bad table manners! What a fun way to teach kids how to treat themselves and others! Classics from my childhood that have stood the test of time!
Oh, dear Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle! So charming! I absolutely love the little details of these, and MacDonald's superb writing! This is the charming book in which Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle runs out of money, and the children search her house for more pirate treasure. Only in a book like this could a little magical woman live in an upside-down house built by her husband, who used to be a pirate!
The kids love Mrs. Pigglewiggle books. They are so old fashioned I didn't think they would understand the stories but they said they do. Sometimes I have to explain some words and why they did things differently then, like making coffee on the stove. We read two so far and they can't wait for another one.
My family LOVED this book. Even my toddler begged me to read it each night. I loved that they learned lessons through choice and consequence in a humorous yet series way. We're now reading the second book.
Lovely book through and through. Just as fun to read as the first.
this book made me so happy when i was a little reader... i read it over and over.
These just get a lot of giggles and are fun stories.
Hilarious little stories enhanced by slightly awkward '50s humor and ideology. I firmly believe Betty MacDonald entertained and subverted the power structure at the same time.
These ailments include, thought you said itis, tattling, bad manners, interrupting, heedless breaking, never wanting to go to school, and what do I do itis.My Thoughts: When I saw the cover of this book, I felt like I read it before.
This is the kind of book that feels like you could read it on a rainy day while the smell of chocolate chip cookies are baking in the oven.
Does Mrs Piggle Wiggle have a potion for ignorance?THE HEEDLESS BAKE CURE: I don’t really have anything for this one.
I’m an adult now, and I just finished re-reading Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle and Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's magic, and they didn’t quite stand the test of time the way some other childhood book favorites of mine have.
But I did make a homemade batch of sugar cookies just to eat while reading about Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's magical cookies,and that was pretty satisfying.
I really like Hilary Knights illustrations for these books, I wish someone would make a Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle cartoon with her as the artist.
Re-reading now I did think it was a bit creepy that Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle specifically said adults "make her nervous" so she only hangs out with kids.
The second installment in the Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle series, this has all the fun and quirkiness of the original with new stories and characters.
If you're unfamiliar, the formula goes like this: Mom (it's always the Mom, yay gender roles) has a problem with one or more of her children; Mom somehow gets the idea to call Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle for help, and she does; the "cure" somehow punishes or disauges the child from the bad behavior; Mom is thrilled.
The last story in this volume was kind of long and boring; it breaks from formula and features all the children searching Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle's house for treasure.
This book had all the glimmers of a magical, exciting jaunt.
There were some charming parts and funny commentary about the grown-ups that were nice to read, but the entire book had the air of a short story that some beleaguered student tried to drag into an entire novel for a class project.That said, I wasn't aware when I purchased the book that it was a sequel.
It is my understanding that the first book was infinitely better, and that the charming characters rendered into caricatures here are absolutely lovely there.
Magic indeed. In fact, just about everything in this book is solved with a magic powder or potion, which really waters down the fun. Of course children can learn to be less clumsy/stop interrupting/stop tattling/etc. if there's just a quick and easy magic spell for it! Supposedly, this lets the children "learn their lesson", but in one comment, you can see that the author doesn't really buy it either. Still, I adore the snarky asides on the weird mothers and the childish fathers. MacDonald obviously got a kick of writing those, and I enjoy them in that spirit.
This was my favorite of all the piggle wiggles. I liked in the end when they were looking for pirate treasure. It sounds fun, I wish I could have been there. I could use the treasure to buy a bike. The best was the never want to go to schoolers cure, cause it showed him what he would be if he never went to school. Thought you said cure was fun too, because when they stomped on the leaves it sounded like thunder and lightening!
After reading the first Missy Piggle-Wiggle and the Whatever Cure and the first Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle, this just wasn't quite as good as either of them. Still worth finishing, just not quite as interesting.
Evie says “there’s lots of magic powders. Did Mrs. Piggle-Wiggle send any powder in that chapter? In the Waddle-I-Doers?” Fun, but not my favorite as the kids and parents tend to get on my nerves. But Evie enjoys these books and has started playing pretend, asking for magic powders for different things 😊
