https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158620.The_Wars_of_the_Roses
Peace.Well, until Richard III kills all the Heirs and crowns himself king until Henry VII smites him down, but that's all ancient history, right?
It's not extremely focused, but it gives us some background before Henry VI loses France and sparks the real beginning of the War. The rest is pretty comprehensive to my layman's eye, though, and I'm satisfied even if even I found it a bit dry.And now, I'm set to run through all the Shakespearian Histories for this time!
Well, obviously it's more complicated than that - in fact, the Wars of the Roses is kind of a clusterfuck of a situation, helped in absolutely no way by the fact that all the men were named George, Edward, Richard, or Henry.
When her husband was overthrown, Margaret spend the rest of her life raising armies, negotiating with allies, and generally calling in every favor she had to restore him to the throne.
At length, Mary agreed to provide men and loan money for a campaign against the Yorkists on condition that Margaret surrendered the town of Berwick to the Scots."Can we just pause and appreciate how amazing it is that this even happened?
NO RATING - DNFThis book covers only the first part of the Wars of the Roses (all of which lasted from 1455 to 1487).
This book covers only the wars between the Lancasters and the Yorks (1455-1471).
The second part of the Wars of the Roses (1483-1487), the fight between the Yorks and the Tudors is presented in the author's book The Princes in the Tower.After four hours of twenty-two I am calling it quits.
This is just a string of names.
I really don't care anymore who gets to be king.
I am not going to rate this.
But since everyone is related to everyone else, it's really all the same (I'm not kidding, it's why they usually needed a Papal Declaration that their intended marriages were sanctioned by the Church)!Alison Weir says in the introduction to this book that finding the cause for the WotR is not a simple task and has been made too simplistic by later Tudor chroniclers so she really went back far to explain how England's treasury was empty thanks to the war with France and how that, amongst other things, started displeasure with the common population.
Very detailed giving background to the origins of the conflict that have become known as wars of the roses and more recently "cousins wars" going back to Edward III and his five sons and what they and their descendants meant to the succession.
Another nitpick is she spends a lot of time excusing Richard Duke of York saying he probably didn't want the throne but then he might have and things were not in his control and he might not have been the main architect behind much of the propaganda against the Queen which I find hard to believe.My last nitpick is that it ends in 1471 after the "Readeption" is terminated, when every immediate Lancastrian is dead and only Margaret of Anjou survives as a disgraced former Queen.
If I was given the choice of writing a novel on a certain historic event, you can bet the event at the bottom of my list would be The War of the Roses.
Nor was it one of those books that feels like a chore to read.Weir starts the novel with the early origins of events that would eventually lead to the thirty-year battle for the throne of England, which dates back to King Edward III.
The War of the Roses ends after the Battle of Tewkesbury.
Weir has a great writing style and it was very readable non-fiction.

This actually a successor/prequel book to her early book, The Princes in the Tower, which is about the final act of the Wars of the Roses; the contest between Richard III and Henry VII (née Tudor), and the fate of the children of Edward IV.Therefore, this book is actually about the rest.
Starting with the deposition of Richard II, Weir spends quite some time of the shaky political footing of the Lancastrian Henry IV, and the successful Henry V, before moving on to the reign of Henry VI, and the large number of political problems that led to the Lancastrian-Yorkish struggle that forms the bulk of the Wars of the Roses, and ends with Tewksbury and the death Henry VI.
There are three main problems for any historian trying to tell the story of the Wars of the Roses.
I can’t remember the last time I read a book then immediately started all over again at page one, this time more slowly, just in case I’d missed something.
As well as covering the whole story from the roots of the families of Lancaster and York (with two hundred pages of background and ‘scene setting’ there are plenty of fascinating footnotes to history.
Even for non-historians, this book is a real page turner that proves that, of course, truth really is stranger than fiction.
I enjoyed this because not only does she present the facts as they are, she goes back an additional 100 years to give the full background on where the conflict exactly started...with the sons of Edward the III and the weak reign of Richard the II.
You can look at several instances that helped fuel the fire between Lancastrians and the Yorkists made in each reign up to the point of the conflict between Richard, Duke of York, and Henry V.
Its important to note she wrote this after writing The Princes in the Tower because she felt a complete history was needed to illustrate the full detail of this history.
I first picked this book up way back in middle school in the mid-90s. I liked the cover, liked the idea of old England. What was most appealing to my young self were the introductory chapters explaining the world of the 1400s. You get a good look at the battles that pitted the Yorks against the Lancasters, and the two princes that were killed. Weir goes into the latter much more in her other book. I wish she'd write more on events, but alas, she's basically settled on personages.Good read on this one!
I have read a bit of fiction concerning the War of the Roses but obviously as someone who studies history knows to take that with a pinch of salt as authors love to manipulate history to fit their storylines.
After listening to this book, I feel like I understand more of this conflict than I did before, with so much information given to me, I glad I got the audiobook as opposed to a chunky paperback.
However, after listening to this audiobook, this thought was changed when Weir focused on Margaret of Anjou, this is a woman I haven't heard a lot about, so I am glad I got to learn a little bit more about her.
From the first time I heard about War of the Roses 🥀 I have been obsessed with this fascinating and deadly conflict.
This is the story that inspired George R.R Martin to write his ASOIAF.
This book is perfect for those who have a sound understanding of the conflict, time period, historical and political context.
I wouldn’t recommend this to someone who is new and wants to learn more.I absolutely loved every minute reading this and honestly can’t wait till I can read more about this period.
Whether your a Lancaster or Yorkist, these two powerhouses changed the shape of England 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿
Alison Weir is certainly my favorite historical author.
I knew when the juicy parts (in my opinion) began since I have done a large amount of reading previously on the Wars of the Roses so I don't feel I lost much doing the skipping.On a higher note, as always with Weir, the extensive and vast amount of knowledge you will receive when reading this book is incrediable.
Even if you never read another book on the topic again, you will certainly know more than the average person.
Weir is a great historian. She brings to life the era, and keeps the right balance between detail and interest. She manages to make what could be dry and boring, intriguing instead.
Alison Weir’s book has the narrative pace of historic fiction but recounts the events of a tumultuous period in British history.
Being a pious gentleman, Henry VI is not able to deliver the goods when it comes to military conquest and a chivalrous public image.
Rival factions form at court, the citizens go bonkers and the Wars of the Roses erupts between the houses of Lancaster (Henry VI and his supporters) and York (the Duke of York and his supporters).
Barring Henry VI, Edward IV and Margaret of Anjou and the Dukes of York and Salisbury, the others are not very well sketched.
Alison Weir’s “The War of the Roses” is a book for someone who already has an interest in the subject matter.
“The War of the Roses” is written in a colloquial style and Ms. Weir occasionally intersperses references to current English events or geography.
The text is also as easy to follow as these difficult and complex aspects of English history can be made to appear.Some small quibbles with the text include the handwritten copies of the genealogies of families involved.
It would have decreased temporary moments of confusion.One thing “The War of the Roses” aptly demonstrates is that reality is always more complex and larger than life than fiction.
The author's tendency to switch back and forth between proper names and titles does add to the confusion of "is this one person or two?
has the duke of wherever switched sides again, or was the the title given to somebody from the other faction in the last chapter?" The geneology charts at the end of the book are hard to access in e-reader formats: taking running notes would be a big help for those determined to keep track of the players and their teams.
I still wind up skimming the battle scenes but I never skip over them completely since they usually contain those important details I’d rather the author would just sum up.
No one can claim this is too “dry”, no matter how you might feel about military history:"As their forces broke, the Yorkist cavalrymen raced to the horse park behind their own lines and mounted their steeds to give chase.
Kill the lords!’ Their words went unheeded."For once, I was glad that the author did not just sum up the results of the battle.
A scholarly but eminently readable book about on of the most contentious times in England's history (House of York-white rose v House of Lancaster-red rose).
This is a history of knights, captured castles and a time when 19 year old kings fought alongside their men.
It was incredibly violent time and there are a lot of beheadings, drawing and quartering of the nobility.
She is one of the most astounding women in history in my opinion.My only quibble is not with the book but reading it in the e-format.
The names of the English nobility change routinely and the same person is referred to by different names.
This was a decent read, however I found Weir a often rushed to accept the veracity of contemporary sources without fully qualifying their motives or possible agendas.
He then almost certainly arranged for young Edward and his brother to be murdered in the Tower of London".
This glib statement has completely convinced me that her other title "The Princes in the Tower" is an utter waste of my time.
If you want to read a fascinating book about the princes read Josephine Tey's "The Daughter of Time".
Thanks to this very approachable history, I think I'm finally starting to get a handle on the Wars of the Roses. Next up: The Princes in the Tower, though after being thoroughly convinced by The Daughter of Time I'm afraid I won't be happy with Weir's solution to the mystery...
I can't put this on my 'riccardian' list because it is anything but. Weir is one of the worst, most biased purveyors of half-clad 'truths' and unsubstantiated statements I have read. Not one of her books are exempt from this charge. She states she is objectively looking at the facts and then gives her opinions but calls them facts. Perhaps she doesn't know the difference? Just read the final page and see what I mean - it's indicative of the tone of the rest of the book and lacks any attempt whatsoever to support her assertions with any evidence.
As always, Alison writes nonfiction as though she's writing a great novel. This is a complicated history with a lot of characters, places and events so it was abit difficult to follow at times, but worth the effort.
Link to my review of this book:https://flhwnotesandreviews.com/2016/...
Really great book and I love the history. I love how Alison got very intimate in regards to the lives and personalities of those during the time period.
Wonderful true historical account of the War of the Roses.
The storytelling was amazing that I kept on turning the pages.The War started in 1455 and basically was between the house of Lancaster and the house of York.
Both were fighting for the crown.The first half of the book really gives the background and lead up to the War. There were a great many small events that caused the war starting in the 14th century.
I did need to write some notes during the first half of the book to keep everything straight in my head.
This is a pretty good introductory narrative history of the wars of the roses.
During that time, the crown would repeatedly change hands between Henry VI and Edward IV, the first of the Yorkish kings.The noble houses of England would jostle for power as they supported either the Yorks or the Lancasters.
Besides being interesting to see how interrelated everyone is, it helps provide some clarity when reading about the individuals since they can be referenced in the family trees.As an interesting aside, I learned that the Tudors, who would rule later one in the form of Henry VIII, his father, and his children, first come to notice in the history of the Wars of the Roses.
“As they thundered past, the King and Warwick, flushed with victory, yelled, ‘Spare the commons! Kill the lords!’ Their words went unheeded.”
