https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32260.Gravity
Soon to be ex husband and wife Emma and Jack are a great team.The audio version was fantastic.
Even his portrayal of the female characters was fantastic and he really captured the emotion of all the characters.There was quite a bit of blood and gore in this book and I really enjoyed it!
I guess that is what makes her one of the top medical thriller authors.Would I recommend it?Yes it was great fun!
Any thriller and fan of a little space blood and guts will love Gravity!
Wow!
This was SO good.
I can't think why I have never read it before.
And why oh why did I not go and see the movie.
I suppose it was because I thought it was some kind of science fiction thing whereas it is actually a serious thriller.
I found it hard to put down at any point in the story and when I was not actually reading it I was still thinking about it.
The main characters are interesting and appealing and the reader is fully invested in wanting to save Emma's life.
But the unexpected emergency involving one of the current astronauts at the space station meant he needed to be brought home – and Emma was chosen as his replacement.
She knew he needed to be evacuated immediately – but as the horror of what was happening intensified, the crew on the space station plus their support from NASA knew they were up against something catastrophic – the danger was not just to the astronauts but to anyone who came into contact with them.
Tess Gerritsen moves the setting for her medical thriller to space and boy is it scary! Emma Watson is a doctor and astronaut who is thrilled to finally be able to go into space and work in the space station. However, when a strange illness begins to affect the crew, she finds herself struggling to work out what is wrong with them. Back on Earth her husband Jack can only watch while her colleagues at NASA try to work out how to save the crew.An excellent page turner of a sci fi thriller!
Kitabın başları fazla uzatılmış gibi geldi. O yüzden kitabın içine girebilmem baya uzun sürdü. Son 150 sayfadaysa güzelce gerildim. Tess ablamız beklentimi boşa çıkarmadı.
I enjoyed this so much I didn't want to put it down and only did when I fell asleep! Fortunately I made it to the last section, so I could sleep well knowing they were going to get things worked out! I love all of her books, and this is no exception. It's better than a Michael Crichton book in my opinion. If you're easily "grossed out", though, you might think twice before starting it, but it's worth whatever it takes to read!
4.05/5Yorumu için: http://kronikokur.blogspot.com.tr/201...
had the same storyline as every single alien move out there...bunch of people go to space n come back with an alien parasite...but it was well written...well enough for 4 stars
Tiek daug techninių terminų, detalių, kosminių operacijų, kad nuolat pasimesdavau ir pamiršdavau kur ir ką ten jie visi kosmose daro...
Jo rankos surištos, mat mylimoji kosmose, o jos stotyje dar ir pražūtingas mikrobas atsirado.Tikrai nepatiko man ši knyga.
Esu tikra, kad tokios knygos turi savo gerbėjų ratą.Galbūt tai galėtų būti mokslinės fantastikos gerbėjai ar tiesiog skaitytojai pamišę dėl visų kosmoso dalykų ir nesibaidantys nežinomų terminų.
Tačiau, Holivudas beširdiškai pasielgė su Tess Gerritsen ir pagal šią knygą, be jos leidimo, net autorei nepranešę sukūrė filmą "Life" ("Gyvybė").
Apie tai Tess sužinojo tik iš savo skaitytojų, kurie pranešė jog filmas neįtikėtinai panašus į jos romaną.
This book has everything Science ,Space,medicine and horrible death.When Dr Emma Watson starts her duty on the international space station she find a horror thats beyond imagination .
Some how a single celled organism has found it way on board and has regenerated out of control .People on the station are dieing in horrible ways and Emma could be next if she cant find a solution .
Word of the horrible infection has caused the government to stop anyone from coming home and they are all running out of time to save the station as the astronauts start dieing from the contagion .
Probably my actual favorite of all the Tess Gerritsen books, in the vein of techno-thrillers written by Michael Crichton. Suspenseful and fast-paced, it has very cool scenes set in space that are cinematic and action-packed. The relationship angle was a little clumsy (and unnecessary) here, but overall it's an enjoyable read.
Kadın süper yazıyor!
Refreshingly, nobody was stupid - that is my biggest pet peeve about thrillers, especially thrillers with women characters for some reason, and it was so nice to have a group of intelligent people of both sexes working together against overwhelming odds. The premise was scary, and it was a suspenseful read!
Second, one of the main characters is named Emma Watson, but has nothing to do with the famous actress.
With that cleared up...A series of accidents and secrets take a research mission at the International Space Station, and turn it into a nightmare.
A strange new disease suddenly breaks out, endangering the entire crew.
Emma Watson, doctor on the station, is struggling to treat something unlike anything she's ever seen before.
And there's a struggle going on between NASA and other aspects of the government as, little by little, the secrets behind what's going on come to light.
One wonders whether the satisfaction (momentary diversion, whatever you want to call it) that both authors have undoubtedly provided to their readers--Gerritsen, while not achieving the household-name status of Crichton, has sold millions of books and reached the NYTBR best-seller list--is a worthy substitute for the services their medical work might have rendered.
Still, I wonder.Personally, I can't say I'd mind if Gerritsen had never picked up a pen, for that would've saved me the now-vague but still rather potent memories I have of some gruesome details in this book, which were vividly rendered and which are now practically all that remains of the reading experience.
But maybe I should reverse that: while failing to surprise me, etc., the book did keep me reading.
I will admit that the some aspects seemed very convenient and others picked up from other story lines but that to me didn't matter - I loved how the various pieces slowly came together and resolved themselves but at the same time didn't give you that chocolate box finish that makes it feel a little "too" perfect/ One this I will throw in here too - is that reading this all the comments about the space shuttles doe age the book but in a good way - it makes me nostalgic for those amazing craft and long for the day something equally awe inspiring takes to the skies
Kötüleri olmayan bir kitap, bir başkası tarafından bu kadar başarılı anlatılamazdı!Tess, bir kez daha kalbimi çaldın!
Any book which makes you think differently about what you might be doing or how you might see what’s happening around you is worthwhile in my view.Tess Gerritsen develops the implications of what might happen if scientists start tampering with unknown lifeforms by way of sophisticated genetic engineering.This happens when some deep sea scientists find some small critters and after fooling with them put them into space just to see what happens.(view spoiler)[And what do you know, secretive government agencies are involved up to their eyeballs.
But…characters?Our plucky heroine doctor surgeon astronaut is going through a divorce with her surgeon doctor former astronaut husband.
Will our plucky heroine get rescued?
Tess Gerritsen bu sefer bambaşka konuyu, uzayı, astronotları işliyor. Ne olduğu belirlenemeyen bir organizma uzay istasyonuna sızarsa, NASA ve/veya Beyaz Saray ne yapardı? Ya sevdiğiniz insan uzayda tek başına kalsaydı siz ne yapardınız? Ben konuyu ilginç kurguyu başarılı buldum. Basımının durdurulmasını anlayamadım, yazarın bir çok kitabına göre daha başarılı.
Absolutely fantastic. Highly recommended. This is one of my all-time favourite books.
This was my first Tess Gerritsen and what a way to be introduced to an author! Fab premise and I looked for as much reading time as I could find for this one.
I know I said that I wasn't going to be writing reviews because I just didn't have time.
I find he had a very clinical way of writing that made you disconnect with characters in the book.
But honestly, I'm so book hung over I don't know what to read next.
I am going to have to read another one of this author's books to appease myself.
This book was so well written I felt like I was in space, I even felt dizzy at times with the characters in the book.
A friend of mine, both an avid reader and fellow NASA contractor, put this one in my hands.
I appreciated Gerritsen's care with technical facts at NASA, as well as her accurate depiction of Johnson Space Center and the Houston area in general.
Just a real fun read all-around, close to home for me, and nicely done!Gerritsen did a remarkable job blurring the line between modern-day science and science fiction.
This was a touching read for me as our nation's Space Shuttle program, which is close to my heart, draws to its close.
Required reading for JSC contractors and civil servants.
Hah. She's suing the movie now.UPDATE:Liked the kindle sample. Will probably get it soon.FINISH:Pretty good. Lots of researched space scenes. The author was a former doctor, and there's also plenty of grisly operations, autopsies, and other grisliness. Stephen King blurbed it. I wouldn't read this right before bed. There's also an undeniable science fiction element later in the book. Not too long. You could say there's a romance element as well. Maybe Vaginal Fantasy could read it in their book club. Nah. Guess where it's stocked in my bookstore...Mystery.Remember: in space, people can see you bleed.
Две с половиной звезды.Не будь аудиокниги, читать не стала бы. А так не сразу поняла, что это не научная фантастика, а медицинский ужастик. Закончившийся предсказуемо "хорошо" - почти всех второстепенных героев убрали, главных героев, насколько возможно, захэппиэндили (да ещё и убрали несколько искусственный, имхо, изначальный повод для конфликта).
Very good book that is a little scary. I love anything to do with space and this does not disappoint.
Gli stessi fatti vengono poi scoperti dopo dai personaggi, ma in questo modo il lettore è stato privato del piacere di meravigliarsi e spaventarsi insieme a essi.
La scena risolutiva non ci viene narrata dal punto di vista di uno dei due protagonisti, ma a distanza tramite il controllo missione, privandoci del piacere di vedere la loro reazione, in particolare quella della Watson, all’incredibile situazione in cui si trovano.
Potrebbe infatti essere causa di più di qualche sonno agitato per quelli che stanno davvero lassù nella ISS.Mi raccomando, cari astronauti, se vi imbattete in qualche sostanza blu-verde di natura sconosciuta, non state lì a giocarci: inceneritela subito!Technically perfect I was very torn while rating this book.
'Gravity' is an action and science packed thriller with all the things you could want in a book- an awesome female main character who is both an astronaut and a doctor, intense scenes in space and in the NASA headquarters, and a creepy experiment gone wrong that is killing the crew members on the ISS one by one in a dark and disturbing way. This book was right up my alley. I thought everything about 'Gravity' was perfectly written and I am on the look out for my next Tess Gerristen novel. What I
'Gravity' is an action and science packed thriller with all the things you could want in a book- an awesome female main character who is both an astronaut and a doctor, intense scenes in space and in the NASA headquarters, and a creepy experiment gone wrong that is killing the crew members on the ISS one by one in a dark and disturbing way.
Like most of the medical thrillers I have read, we get a change in POV throughout the book, switching between both minor and major characters to give us more insight into the story.
Bir bilim kurgu sever olarak hem sevdim hem de nefret ettim.
Bu ne güzel bir hikayedir yiğidim; sıkmayan, yerine göre ürperten, monotonluktan uzak.
Açıkçası ben sıradan bir hikaye beklerken oldukça ilgi çekici çıktı.
Hikayenin yapboz gibi, her köşesinin birbirine bağlanması ve açıklanmamış olay kalmaması benim en hoşuma giden kısımlar oldu.
Bana böyle şeylerle gelin!Keşke karakterler içinde aynısını söyleyebilseydim.
Hikaye ne kadar güzelse, karakterler o kadar işe yaramazdı.
Özellikle baş karakter Emma’yı hatırladıkça çığlık atasım geliyor.
Astronot olmuşsun, uzaya çıkmışsın ama olmamış.
İşte bu yüzden dört puan yerine, üç veriyorum.Bak yine hatırlayıp sinirleniyorum; başımın sağ tarafına doğru bir ağrı saplanıyor!
Oh, yes. This was fab. I can really imagine this as a properly gripping Netflix Original with a great score and huge potential.In outline, the story isn't anything unique, but the way it all fits together, the rightness and coordination of each character and plot point and the sheer audacity of the novel's climax makes it a superb, un-putdownable thrill ride all the way through. Proper 5 star space fiction and no mistake
