https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131793.An_American_Dream
Naturally, we readers would hate for our white and wealthy male hero to kill himself, so we cheer the poor guy along as he seeks to reclaim his autonomy (his masculinity) by murdering the wife, sodomizing the family maid (she resists but then quickly relishes in the act), making the wife's murder look like a suicide, banging the maid again before the police arrive, tricking the cops, immediately falling in love with a sleazy nightclub singer, beating up her black boyfriend, and gifting her with her first real orgasm: all in under 24 hours.
He is a 45 year old half-Jew, half-Gentile, a Professor of Existential Psychology (the author of “The Psychology of the Hangman” and proponent of the thesis that “magic, dread and the perception of death are the roots of motivation”), the host of a TV show, a former Member of Congress (a potential Presidential rival to JFK, “Prince Jack”, the first of three Princes – one Catholic Establishment, one Mafia and the other Black - he will encounter over the course of the novel) and a war hero who singlehandedly killed four German soldiers on a full moon-lit night in Italy.Rojack is haunted by these murders, and continues to believe that the moon, in the guise of a female apparition, speaks to him at times of conflict or crisis.
ah... mailer at his worst. throwaway prose, boring characters, obvious plotting and tired themes (amongst mailer's 'important' themes is the whole american masculinity/infantliazation thing that hemingway did with considerably more force and thought a few decades earlier). at his best, mailer is a god. at worst - as is evident here - he's not fit to write a cheap pulp novel.
should be subtitled a book of smells.
never read so many smells in my life.
(i don't have much of a sense of smell, and after reading this, am very happy about it.)anyway.
on the other hand, this book is laughably dated and, well, trash (even more trash than early ellroy), and after about the halfway point it just dissolves into a bunch of incredibly boring dialogues about god knows what, spades with shivs and mobster molls with hearts of gold and evil incest-driven millionaires out to rule the world yammering on and on and on and on...
He murders his wife (who he says is sucking the life out of him but makes no noticeable effort to explain how), is called a sexual 'genius' after he has anal sex with the maid, sleeps with another woman and gives her her first orgasm, drinks like a fish, fights like a drunk and stares down police officers and professional boxers with naught but his toughness.
This book could be seen as tongue in cheek, an ironic glimpse into a twisted 'American dream' of roided-up masculine fantasies, except for one major problem, MAILER STABBED HIS WIFE IN REAL LIFE.
And, if its title is taken to mean anything, this violent, soft-porn soap opera of a novel is intended as a portrait of America's dream of itself in the mid-sixties, and its hero someone males of the time might secretly aspire to be.
If this is the American dream, we're a pretty sick country.That's the generous read of this.
The less generous read is that Mailer's issues are the same as the novel, and that the title is a way to cloak those issues with a portentousness that will redeem the work.
If you can stomach the brutal violence and the hysterical anti-woman diatribes, Mailer actually makes some pretty good points about racial, sexual, and cultural hypocrisy in America. He knows how to write tough cops and the sordid underbelly of big city America. And he writes soaring prose, which represents an enormous effort of will.Oh, and not that it makes the book any better, but if you're a fan of MAD MEN, it's easy to picture Jon Hamm as Rojack, January Jones as Deborah, and Christina Hendricks as Cherry.
Quase inteiramente escrito na primeira pessoa, em que o narrador é, também, o fulcro de todo o livro, este é mais um magnífico livro que pertence ao legado negro dos anos 60 do século passado,nos EUA.
A facilidade com que Mailer choca, provoca e nos agarra pelo pescoço - para não mais largar- tornam a negritude de todo o enredo tão hipnótica quanto inebriante.
O mobil é semelhante aos que fizeram de tom wolfe ou Sinclair Lewis referencias incontornáveis dos escribas americanos- a denúncia da ilusão frágil em que se erigiu a sociedade americana na golden era.Mas Mailer é infinitamente mais contundente, agressivo e incisivo.
(But isn't that also a sad thing, to learn a book like this was published in Esquire in the 1960s, and then be able to say, "Oh, well, all that makes more sense then"?)I also have a feeling that my reasons for disliking it might pertain almost solely to women and extremely sensitive/feminist men.
So maybe don't bother reading this if you're a guy who plain likes graphic sex, violence, wealth, and intrigue; you might think this book is swell.
“Twenty five whores in the room next door, twenty five floors and I need more…” Sisters of Mercy – Vision Thing.If there is a dream then, according to the law of opposites, there should be a counterdream… Can reality be considered as a counterdream?
And suddenly I understood the moon.”Is it a dream or is it paranoia?“No, men were afraid of murder, but not from a terror of justice so much as the knowledge that a killer attracted the attention of the gods; then your mind was not your own, your anxiety ceased to be neurotic, your dread was real.
Mailer's meditation on violence and evil will not be everyone's idea of a good novel to read on the beach, but An American Dream is a fully realized male fantasy wherein one set-upon, White, alcoholic , protagonist berserks himself into sequential delirium fueled rages to rid himself of the crushing banality of the culture that he feels is killing him by the inch.
The plot, of course, is lurid, absurd and the product of a particular time, but Mailer's novel comes at a time when the Hemingway cult of quiet, manly stoicism managed through a singular, privately held code of honor was exhausted of compelling narrative potential.
A book that's hard to categorise and hard to quantify.
It's like a modern Crime and Punishment, written by a possessed Ira Levin, maybe in collaboration with Nelson Algren.
Dark, brooding, nightmarish, exhilarating, booze-soaked, it's also like American Psycho in the lyrical syle of Blood Meridian.
I don't know what the overall message was, but I enjoyed the sermon immensely.
Very fine.One of many potential favourite quotes, selected because it's near the end: The Irish are the only men who know how to cry for the dirty polluted blood of the world.
"Знаете ли вы, что такое психоз?"Лучше бы не знали.Иногда кажется, что мужчинам все позволено. Их вариант "дамского" романа: секс, убийство, политика, снова секс, опять убийство, ЕЕ ДУША ПОХОЖА НА КОМОК ЧЕРВЕЙ!, политика, немного инцеста, я прозрел и познал любовь, она умерла, я уехал в степь.Чуваки, это стыдно.Нельзя, забыв о персонажах, сюжете и композиции, замешать в одну кучу войну, конгресс, JFK, пьянство, анальный секс, чувство вины и чернокожего джазмена, снабдить все метафорами жизни, смерти и кары небесной и считать, что ты написал заебись мощный роман-откровение. Читать его с пиететом тоже нежелательно.
Part fantasy, part nightmare, and part expose of the ultimate American Dream, of the corruption at the pinnacle of power and high society.
Rojack, like Kennedy, is a war hero, and seduced by high powers to run for office.
Perhaps the most memorable character is the black jazz singer, Shago Martin, who recognizes the hypocrisy and patronizing attention of high white society, (view spoiler)[and announces his rejection of that society in a dramatic knife wielding mano-a-mano showdown with Rojack.
Searing, incantatory, manic, surreal, tawdry, wild, exhilerating, vivid, nightmarish, offensive, slightly demented....impressive!
Startlingly, this was on Playboy's 25 Sexiest Novels Ever Written list. The only thing less sexy to me than Norman Mailer's novels is Norman Mailer himself.
A writing style that at first seems like a good easy read, but upon closer study, shows a unique voice in its rhythm and imagery. The story was simplistic, but at times quite engaging.
There's a lot of you (LADIES) who could learn valuable lessons from a book like this.
This is a real story about a guy who's under a lot of pressure, and things kind of get away from him, and one thing leads to another.
It's guys like this who I wanted to make America better for: men who got Blue White and Red running in their veins.
Now, great men like this won't be driven to such sadness no more.
Real unfortunate the guy didn't have a friend like my Uncle Roy who he could call to get his mess cleaned up.
A tirade of unhinged masculinity, at times deliciously enjoyable, others a conundrum.There is rot in the ostentatious world of the privileged: the moneyed autocrats who jostle for their perceived entitlements.
This leads to the reader chasing echoes, wandering through aftermath looking for an anchor which Mailer is too spent to set for us.The grandiosity of language is something to behold and justified as a method to convey a very direct representation of character.
The reflections on devotional religiosity embolden the allusions to unrestrained inner forces searching for outwards justifications.I couldn't help but think that Mailer was doing a great deal of zeitgeist chasing.
I can see I need to read more Mailer, who is extraordinary stylistically.
The human capacity for violence and depravity is intertwined with the toxic effect certain people can have on one another.
This book was met with great controversy when it was written.
Mailer was not exactly known as Mr. Nice Guy and his reputation with women shadowed him his entire life.
However, like all Mailer's work, there is a thread of brilliance and insight in this book that makes it a harrowing read.
Unlike some readers who seemed focused on the "filth", I found the story to be an excruciating exploration of the human quest for signs and indicators.
This is the first Norman Mailer I've read.
It took me a short while to get into it, but once the character really kicks in then the book takes off at a fast and realistic pace.
Stephen Rojack is surface-successful, but underneath burns disatisfaction and disgust.
The book blurb suggests these scenes are graphic and shocking, but whilst they are vivid and realistic the book is shot through with poetry and intense descriptions which means they are never salacious.
It begs re-reading and is as fascinating as a car crash.

Having read Mailer's The Fight - a great, evocative book that is occasionally spoilt only by the author becoming the protagonist - I wanted to read one of his novels to see if he created the same intensity.And he does - sometimes. There are passages which grip you by the throat, there are others which you can't peel your eyes away from.But ultimately the plot is stretched beyond credulity, characters come and go almost without explanation and certainly without reason, so the overall effect is rambling rather than chaotic.
It's is a disturing,very very problematic book which got me feel like the writer tries to impose his
Mailer is a transcendent writer, and challenged societal conventions in his day. While this book is beautifully written, (a PTSD flashback of war here is movingly and horrifyingly scripted), it's a prime example of a writer resting on his laurels. Violent, profane and banal, this is quite simply shock literature that was made a classic because of the sheer fact it challenged the limits of free speech in its day. There's not much here of substance; Mailer is a great writer - this is a terrible book.
A whack masterpiece of writing espousing some bizarro Mickey Spillane gone hipster prose that puts you in a Jack Daniels-fueled hammerlock of Cape Cod psychosis. I like the way the book started with a reference to JFK as the book was written shortly after his assassination. Everything in this book is nuts and by the laws of physics I shouldn't even like it but its so brain-fried it gives me a boner.
This book was thoroughly mediocre. Stretches of it were intriguing, but long stretches of it were meandering rambles that didn't seem to have much of a point. This book almost earned a three-star rating, for the intriguing parts were quite intriguing, but when an author stoops to using sex and the underbelly of high society to make things interesting, well, that just cheapens a novel and makes it feel like the author has given up on the book.
p.151 "I could feel mysteries revolving into mysteries like galaxies forming themselves, and knew with some sort of defeated woe that I would never learn a tenth of what had really happened, not ever."
Norman Mailer wrote a lot of bad books including this one in which he is at his self-centred and misogynist worst. The Naked and the Dead is a good enough book but there is little to be gained from going too far into the Mailer catalogue.
just started....i love his twisted characters. We all need a little unsettling fiction in our lives :) reminds us how 'normal' we really are. (have not picked this one back up in a while. I have been booked out with School books.
