https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11662.Couples
Well, most of the time, like when you aim for the right orifice.
You don't always aim for the right door, do you, John (and don't tell me that it was just a slip)!And, on top of that.
There's nothing worse than having you light up, after you've had your way with me, and then blowing that nasty smoke in my face as you then wonder aloud how we're both going to die.So, why do I stick around, even after you ignore me, ignore me multiple times in a row, when my response to your hand on my hip is a respectful not tonight dear?Why, John, why?Why can't I quit you?Oh, I know why.Because you're mother fucking brilliant.
Sex is like money; only too much is enough. It's 1968 and religion is dying. Faith is fluttering away. Marriage is a desolate, lonely place. With death approaching, all that comforts is the welcoming arms of a lover. Sex is the new religion. But not just any sex. It's gotta be sex with someone who isn't your legally bound partner. Maybe it's the wife of your friend. The pregnant woman down the road. The town's dentist. It's time for some bed hopping. You know, the old switcheroo. Lascivious act
Adultery is the new raison d'être, coitus the new divinity.This premise shocked the literary world when Couples was published.
I'm sure that it had many people agape at the limp morals of the book's characters.Knowing this, I expected a salacious page-turner.
So why did I find myself struggling through the sex-laden pages?First, there are simply WAY too many characters.
Just when you think everything that could happen, has, there's still like 100 pages to go.
But, I have to say, sex isn't all that hot when the people involved are so unaffected and indifferent.
To my prejudices it was the jejune, possibly self-caricatural big bestseller, the book whose fame caused every obituary writer to narrowly cast Updike as a chronicler of upper-middle class New England marriages (Rabbit is a Pennsylvanian petit-bourgeois, as it happens).
And at that sale a few weeks previous I had bought a copy The Stories of John Cheever, and had read so many that I wanted more midcentury New England agnst, more communter trains and cocktail shakers and girdles, and the sale also had stacks of old early 1960s issues of LIFE that nobody bought but contained the ads of that world, ads for cheap vernacular bourbon and Hi-Fi and convertibles that you drive a blond to the beach in.
What's wonderful and aggravating about Updike all in one book.
We see the same recycled themes here (parts feel very much like Marry Me and the Rabbit series, among others), which isn't a bad thing.
Updike loves to focus on adultery, and he does so as well as anyone I know.
Love the Piet storyline and all the characters involved in it.
The book, like many Updike books, feels too long.
I found myself skimming many of the scenes describing the beautiful (and fucking boring) New England coast.
Aside from the Rabbit books, probably my favorite Updike.
Nobody writes about infidelity quite as good as Updike. Well, Roth sometimes gets close, but particularly in Couples, the disintegration of the various couples in the small New England town is described with painful realism by John Updike. Each character is fully developed and is sometimes endearing, sometimes enraging but always compelling. After the Rabbit series, this was my favorite Updike book.
updike might harp on a few larger themes, but after finishing six novels (and countless short stories) it'd be tough not to realize that what updike’s all about is expressing what it means to be alive in a world of other people with the knowledge that we will die alone.
and no one does it better than updike.but updike’s no romantic.
Questo romanzo non piglia da subito; ci vuole un po' di tempo per calarsi nella incredibile aria avvelenata di Tarbox, ennesima riproposizione del paesino di provincia del nordest americano dove si alternano serialmente pigri party, storie di letto con incroci pericolosi, dialoghi ad alto contenuto freudiano e un pizzico di politica, amicizie taglienti come rasoi.
Sullo sfondo i roaring sixties, in cui prende buono spazio anche l'evento più traumatico della storia politica del novecento americano, l'omicidio di JFK.
Tl;dr būtų daugmaž tikslu, bet tiksliausia būtų parašyti, jog ties 5% DNF'inau nes tų ~20 psl. per akis užteko suprasti, kad ne mano šita knyga bus, kad ne mano žanras, ne mano stilius ir šiaip nepatinka. Daugiau ir nesiplėsiu, neturiu tiesiog ką dar parašyt apie šią knygą.
But with an entire novel (Couples) and a good part of at least two of the Rabbit books dedicated to the scenario of partner "swapping" and "swinging," and other forms of adultery (a.k.a. cheating), I am pushed to accept that not only does this behavior exist, but that author John Updike actually did it.
As far as Updike's "heroes" go, Piet is much harder to like than Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom; he's also not as well drawn.
The best character in Couples is the villain/anti-hero, Freddy Thorne.
How innocently life ate the days.
(In November 2015, my rare-book service sold a first edition, first printing of John Updike's Couples through our eBay account [http://ebay.com/usr/cclapcenter].
(And of course, it didn't hurt the book's salacious reputation that Updike had based the anecdotes on the true stories from his real set of upper-middle-class suburban friends in Ipswitch, Massachusetts, a shocking development in reserved New England which made the book the subject of whispered conversations there for literally decades afterwards.) When combined with Philip Roth's Portnoy's Complaint and Gore Vidal's Myra Beckinridge, all three of which came out in the same 12-month period, Couples marks a watershed moment in American literary history, the messy and violent wrenching of the smooth and slick Modernist era into what eventually became the Postmodernist one; and for anyone interested in collecting first editions from this period, this is an absolutely must-have acquisition, being sold at a premium price today because of the exquisite condition of this particular copy (but see "Condition" below for more on that).
“Thou shalt not commit adultery” – Exodus 20:14.
But days in a small town are empty and everyone needs something to fill the hole in one’s day to day living.
So adultery becomes practically the only entertainment and the transgression of this commandment is no longer sin but bliss…“She seemed to float on her bed at a level of bliss little altered by his coming and going and thus worked upon him a challenge; at last she confessed he was hurting her and curled one finger around the back of his ear to thank him.
I did really enjoy the writing, Updike's amazing use of language to describe places and people, but it's also a very dense book, sometimes so heavy going, so full to the brim with language, that I wanted to get to the end, and now I feel the need for something lighter and shorter.
I sometimes had some problems with how articulate and emotionally intelligent every single character was, but then I would forgive Updike this because it allowed his wonderful writing to just flow through my brain.
The ending was also odd, just a quick summing up of all ten main over two pages, as if even Updike had had enough of them.
60's wife swapping in New England - hence rather confusing at first re who is married to who, who is having an affair with who, who children belong to etc. Wonderfully poignant and evocative metaphors and descriptive passages; other bits are deliberately disjointed, more like stream-of-consciousness.
This book reminded me of my mother; one she may have read with pink edged pages, copyright 1968, the price on the cover $1.25 (not even an ISBN number).
I picked up this one for its reputation for sex - and I was not disappointed.But that's not why I gave it five stars.
John Updike is a dazzling wordsmith.
Everything from the imagery to the depth of his characters to the story line was top notch.
I'd never read such a vivid representation of an asshole as I have with Piet Hanema.
I'll definitely have to check out more Updike.
I came to this book purposefully, wanting to engage in mental conversation about couples in the suburbs of New England.
That aside, I’m left with a very slow book that has some incredibly beautiful sentences (the sexual descriptions are so vivid and specific and that you’ll want a shower each time you finish a chapter).
Gorgeous imagery means I liked it, I appreciated it, I’m glad I read it, but I didn’t love it.
I found the characters to be shallow, immoral, callous, and not capable of real love.
You want to yearn with the characters, not just watch them bed hop.
I haven't read anything by John Updike for years so I picked up "Couples" at the library just so I could switch over to a prominent American writer for a change of pace.
One of his most read books, "Couples" deals with the "new morality" that took hold amongst the young surburbanite married couples starting in the early 60's.
Updike portrays this suburban culture in graphic, explicit terms, painting a picture of almost total inmorality amoung the couples of the town of "Tarbox".
Even in 2011 terms the changing relationships seem excessive but in Updike's mind at least must have existed.
Good book if you're open minded and not too prudish.
Il romanzo è ambientato a Tarbax, cittadina della provincia americana, negli anni appena precedenti la pubblicazione (1968): una serie di giovani coppie sposate, frivole e annoiate, si frequentano per… passatempo, dedicandosi a chiacchiere, giochi di società e partitelle sportive.
Updike, che tiene avvinto il lettore con notevoli capacità stilistiche, forse si augura la sua reazione, ma certamente si espone ben poco: “l’incisiva critica nei confronti di una società eternamente insoddisfatta e alla ricerca impossibile dell’assoluto” di cui parla il commento in quarta di copertina risulta perlomeno… molto indiretta.
The other main character is Elizabeth 'Foxy' Whitman, newly moved to Tarbox in a house that Piet's wife Angela wanted to have.
The full cast (*affairs/sex):- Piet and Angela Hanema (*Freddy - attempted)- Ken and “Foxy” Whitman (*Piet)- Roger (potentially homosexual) and Bea Guerin (*Piet)- Frank and Janet Appleby (*Harold)- Harold and Marcia Smith / “little-Smith” (*Frank)- Freddy and Georgene Thorne (*Piet)- Matt (Piet's business partner as contractor) and Terry Gallagher (*her pottery teacher)- Eddie and Carol Constantine (*unclear: foursome with Ben and Irene?, Piet)- Ben and Irene Saltz (*see above)- John and Bernadette OngThe couples are occupying themselves with cocktail parties, joint sports activities, games and adultery.
Did a review of this book here: https://youtu.be/NMTPs4zBWvU
'They had been let into God's playroom,' Updike writes, 'and been happy together on the floor all afternoon, but the time had come to return the toys to their boxes and put the chairs against the wall.' Piet, the male half of the novel's primary couple, is a serial and almost subconsciously-driven adulterer; his ultimate fate (marrying one of the wives with whom he had a dalliance) seems more of a cruel than a desirable fate.
Such a book could never be written today; the couples would be much too self-aware and, although still morally flawed, not as prone to salve their flaws through sex and multiple partners.
"Двойки" напомня много на написаната 11 години по-късно "Ожени се за мен".
Няколкото семейства са разширена версия на нейните две двойки.
Едната част от ежедневието им е улегнала и нормална, другата - колкото скандализираща и порочна, толкова и първично човешка и обяснима.Ъпдайк е много добър разказвач, увлича, а еротиката му е обилна, но истинска, ненатрапчива и красива.
If your husband is a super-brainy scientist exploring the mysteries of life at the cellular level, it is very likely he will neglect your emotional and sexual needs, and deny you a child for years until your marriage is almost curdled.If you finally do get pregnant, your brainy husband will be turned off but the earthy married contractor will be hot for your pregnant bod.When you have the baby, brainy husband will be disgusted and earthy lover will feel displaced and end the affair.If you have sex one last time with earthy lover, you'll get pregnant again.If you need an illegal abortion, ask your dentist.
I read this book solely because it was once bestowed what I think is the most unforgettable blurb of all time: the author's wife once described it as "wading through pubic hair." Obviously, it was only a matter of time before I read Couples.
Don't read Couples.Ok, now some disclaimers!
This is the only Updike I've ever read (except for "Fellatio", surely The Worst Poem Ever Written, and I'm really more embarrassed for him than angry at him for writing it), so I've no comparison, or insights into the prose itself, but I imagine that even for the gentleman's fans, this one is for completists only.
Maybe I should say that I don't normally consider myself a prude, but I felt positively relieved when this book was over.
I don't think I can be disappointed with Updike. I know I'm wrong. I'll read a stinker soon enough (maybe his post-apocalyptic or apocalyptic or whatever it is book?), but in the mean time, he has officially become my favorite writer (for a while, of his class). His narration is so spotless, and always integrated seamlessly with his gorgeous descriptions and probably unintentionally hilarious dialogue. He's just such a cynical old dad, I love it. This book is ridiculous. Summarize it to friends, and they'll be aghast.
Couldn't even finish this book--and I tried pretty hard. These couples just became insufferable after a while, everyone cheating on one another and then doing nothing to make their lives what they want it to be. A bunch of miserable people complaining a lot and longing after one another--a real slog to get through.
Generally I like Updike. But this book made me despair for humanity. You know how occasionally you go to a party where everyone is a little too gaudy and loud, so you drink too much and leave as soon as you can, shutting the door firmly and breathing a sigh of relief? Yeah. Thusly.
I had to quit 110 pages in. The prose was overwritten and the story was boring. Perhaps it was scandalous at the time of publication, but it was not for me. I couldn't get into the author's style of writing--perhaps others will enjoy it, but it was not for me.
Updike lancia una provocazione forte e chiara: il matrimonio come ventre e culla di inevitabili quanto probabilmente necessari compromessi. CoppieJohn Updike Traduzione: Attilio VeraldiEditore: EinaudiPag: 608Voto: 4/5
Read this as assigned in a course titled "developmental psychology" as the study of the adult self. A good story that gave a lesson on empathy.
