https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/195990.The_Last_September
"Their life, through which they went forward uncertainly, without the compulsion of tragedy, was a net of small complications." Isn't that the perfect definition of ordinary life, lived by ordinary people who have no potential for heroism or martyrdom, but who consider their small complications important enough to care about them and to take necessary action to secure their status quo or to change it, according to need?The tragedy of The Last September lies in the fact that the reader knows the characters live at a time and place, the Troubles in Ireland, where ordinary life is a luxury most people can't afford.
Up among the beeches, a thin iron gate twanged; the car slid out from a net of shadow, down the slope to the house.As greetings are exchanged with the long-awaited visitors, Bowen turns her camera on Lois, standing apart from the rest of the characters:In those days, girls wore crisp white skirts and transparent blouses clotted with white flowers; ribbons, threaded through with a view to appearance, appeared over their shoulders.
As was the case with the blue-covered novel in the Henry James book I mentioned earlier, the book in this story was relevant to the theme of the innocence of girls of an awkward age.
Have you ever seen them say NOW A MINOR MOTION PICTURE?
But that was minor – the main thing was the STYLE of Elizabeth Bowen.
When she turned his way, light took the uncertain dinted cheek-line where, under the eyes, flesh was patted on delicately over the rise of the bone.
Her face was long, her nose modelled down from the bridge the finished off softly and bluntly, as by an upward flick of the sculptor’s thumb.I didn’t like any of this – the highlighted phrases seem especially ridiculous – and I couldn’t face wading through a thousand more examples.
The other characters were largely present to provide social comedy which is the task set the dialogue.
It's often in the descriptive lyrical passages that Bowen announces her genius, when she dramatizes the outside world as a register of her characters' inner lives.
At the final count, Elizabeth Bowen can write better than 99% of living novelists, which is always a reason for reading even her minor early works.NB: I watched twenty minutes of the film adaptation last night.
Quite simply Bowen wrote much better dialogue.
I think she is making a good point, and she does make me feel like the sun is going down and I can’t look away, so ultimately, she wins.Anyway, that part of the book isn’t really the reason to read this though.
There are many books that may tell you things that you remember feeling or thinking as a teenager, but how many of them make you remember what it was like to physically be inside the skin of a teenager?
He tries to start this way, offering Lois an uncomplicated, unquestioned fairy tale love- but faced with a real girl in return, he has to confront his own feelings to face her.
It isn't relevant to now!) because it evokes the feelings of rainy dinner party days and first horniness.
Dinner parties like people getting together and trying to decide on some vague focal point in the distance that will get them all.
There should have been some wrong feeling in there that wasn't just first horniness playing dress up at ways of life, first loves and breakthroughs...
Just dinner party decisions.Elizabeth Bowen's The Last September is not those things.
Maybe you can recall how you felt almost in love with other things.
It really isn't your love.Bowen did have power over me in her mind reading capabilities.
The characters of The Last September all seem to suffer from lethargy and incipient depression. They are unable to act, know, or even care. Only the wind has energy. Throughout the novel they are increasingly defined by relationship to objects, a move which is foreshadowed by the narrator's early listing of things amongst which she is at home.
Not a favourite I'm afraid. If I hadn't read the very excellent Troubles by Farrell last year I might have thought more highly of this one.The characters didn't resonate with me, they were so self centred and rudderless. I read this because of the time period depicted. This is a slow, gently unfolding story, no doubt too gently unfolding.Just not my cup of tea.
Just thinking out loud here, about something which fascinates me...Please do suggest a textual relevance, of any kind, if indeed you're seeing one)I'm sorry, but reading poetry in itself, by itself, doesn't change the direction of the country you live in (would that it could!) unless of course you're maybe a president who is so moved by Whitman or Neruda that you decide to change face on corn imports, labor jurisdiction or gay rights or whatever, or if you've organzied a body of people around the works of a poet or novelist (what would the Keatsitarian or Conradista party look like?)- which, of course, isn't totally crazy a concept if you even glance at the works and lives of (say) Tolstoy, Mishima, perhaps Pound, the Italian Futurists, just for a couple examples.
All of the shifts and transitions will not go off smoothly here, admittedly; but this is the 'fractured narrative' that Bowen does, and as it is seen to integrate with the plotline--and ingratiate itself with the reader, can be fascinating, mesmerizing.The setup of the POV switches comes to its natural climax in the scene of the impromptu dance at the British garrison; where the swirl of changing partners and shifting glances makes for perfectly-equivalent storytelling.
The book deals with friendships and love affairs of young women of this class while the threat of the IRA hulks in the background.
It makes sense that the heroine of The Last September should lack this knowledge, for, though we may disagree with the Montague and Capulet parents, their children grew up in an atmosphere of passionately sincere emotion and clear expression, which the people in The Last September sadly lack.The book could be criticized for treating the Irish rebellion unfully, but only if you did not read it carefully.
Elizabeth Bowen's highly wrought Modernist writing style resulted in me having to frequently re-read passages and ponder their meaning.
This means the book takes place against a backdrop of unease and tension which Elizabeth Bowen subtly signals through symbolism and language.After finishing the book I did some research to try and better understand the book's themes and meanings.
The book's themes include feminism, sterility, colonialism, identity and so on - some of these were obvious to me, but a lot were only clear once I'd read some more informed analysis.Ultimately I found this a frustrating book.
The earliest Bowen I've read- not as great as Heat of the Day, but one of the best I've read.
I wish I could have a chat at the bar with some of the people whose reviews complain about a lack of irony on the narrator's part, saying that Lois is self-obsessed, that everyone is self-obsessed, and that Bowen thinks this is the way things should be.
In short: a great study of how people everywhere, when faced with the breakdown of the world in which they are comfortable and greatly privileged, can pretend that that breakdown isn't happening.
Also quite funny in a low-key kind of way.
My distaste for Elizabeth Bowen and Lois, the self-obsessed protagonist of her novel,  The Last September , set in the face of the anti-colonial turmoil of the War for Irish Independence, is not misinformed.
Bowen seems to take in stride, as if silly girls are destined to become silly women, as if that is the proper way of the world and there are no other possibilities for them.Lois is infatuated with Gerald, a British Black and Tan, but she also briefly imagines being in love with a married friend of her uncle’s, Mr. Montmorency, who literally could have been her father as he was once in love with Lois’ mother.
Published in 1929, this novel by Elizabeth Bowen takes place in 1920 in County Cork, Ireland, and involves the lives of Protestant Anglo-Irish landowners who are only gradually coming to terms with the fact that their way of life is about to come to an end as Ireland is about to become independent of Britain.
Additional tensions arise as one becomes aware of the differences between the Anglo-Irish and the British military, each of which misunderstands the other.Final crises do occur, bringing the novel to a satisfactory and realistic conclusion.
Me ha gustado el relato de la estaticidad de determinado tipo de sociedad ante los cambios externos negándose a verlos, pero le ha faltado un poco de profundidad para que fuera creíblehttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
"Life, seen whole for a moment, was one act of apprehension, the apprehension of death."there were a lot of wonderful descriptions and word pictures, but overall it was confusing and very dramatic and I didn't really like any of the characters. maybe Francie and Marda, some.but why? what? I understand surprisingly little of what happened. 😶 I think there's a to "get" - I'm pretty sure it's deeper than I realize. but I am a lazy reader and don't want to reread everything and ponder such a long book when I'm not loving it. ;D
I read this book for a class and definitely really enjoyed it.I think part of what makes this book is the characters.
It may seem like it would be hard to connect with them because I don't like in 1920 Ireland, but I definitely found Lois's conflicts to be relatable, such as the debates about her future.
I'd also like to add that Bowen's dialogue and writing were both great!
I'd imagine that at some point I'll re-read this book and possible check out some of her other work.
http://youtu.be/6EDmYfR9R5EMichael Gambon ... Sir Richard NaylorTom Hickey ... O'BrienKeeley Hawes ... Lois FarquarDavid Tennant ... Captain Gerald ColthurstRichard Roxburgh ...Captain DaventryGary Lydon ... Peter ConnollyMaggie Smith ... Lady Myra Naylor Summary - In 1920s Ireland, an elderly couple reside over a tired country estate. Living with them are their high-spirited niece, their Oxford student nephew, and married house guests, who are trying to cover up that they are presently homeless
http://youtu.be/6EDmYfR9R5EMichael Gambon 	...
Sir Richard NaylorTom Hickey 	...
O'BrienKeeley Hawes 	...
Lois FarquarDavid Tennant 	...
Captain Gerald ColthurstRichard Roxburgh ...Captain DaventryGary Lydon 	...
Peter ConnollyMaggie Smith 	...
Lady Myra Naylor Summary - In 1920s Ireland, an elderly couple reside over a tired country estate.
Living with them are their high-spirited niece, their Oxford student nephew, and married house guests, who are trying to cover up that they are presently homeless.
The niece enjoys romantic frolics with a soldier and a hidden guerrilla fighter.
All of the principals are thrown into turmoil when one more guest arrives with considerable wit and unwanted advice.
http://abookadayparis.blogspot.com.es...
I found this book so dull I forgot who the characters were and didn't care what happened to them.
4.5 Stars
A young girl comes of age (or does she) in an Anglo-Irish great house belonging to her uncle and aunt.
In addition to a gift for original descriptions of landscape and feeling, the author has a sharp eye for character and how people reveal themselves through speech and action, with some scenes funny enough for Jane Austen.
The ending while realistic over-eggs the pudding, but it remains a wonderful novel with plenty of evidence supporting her friend Charles Ritchie’s contention that Ms Bowen was a genius.
She didn't make me care enough about the characters. Distant and vague. Learned something about the Irish Civil War in early 1920's which was interesting but next time, back to Virginia Woolf for this period.
:'(((
NOTHING HAPPENS IN THIS BOOK UNTIL THE LAST 15 PAGES AND IT WILL KILL YOU.
I don't know how I feel about reading stuffy novels about the Protestant ascendancy class in Ireland, but the protagonist of this novel, Lois, was interesting and unsure and self-conscious and I loved following her through her days of doing literally nothing besides debate whether or not she should marry Gerald (who is an English soldier and therefore an improper marriage option) and play tennis.
Plus you get a bunch of eerie Gothic descriptions of the house and the landscape, and I'm always down for a good sort-of ghost story.
The characters consist of people from the Irish mansion at Danielstown and the British soldiers (subalterns).
It is the story of the coming of age of Lois and the ending of an age of the Irish mansion land owners.
Tensions between love and freedom, tradition and Motifs:Unfinished sentence (so many, so many, so many)I would add, that there is a lot of reference to dropping in for meals, tea, etc without invitation implying that they (the Irish mansion owners are at peace with others especially the British security forces but at the end, people who stop by are not invited in for tea, beverage, etc by Lois.
it definitely did not move fast.
i mean i think was one of the main things bowen was trying to convey, but she seemed to forgive them for it, and at least in my experience, it was difficult for the reader to do so.
definitely some positive aspects too though.
also some interesting dialogue - the kind where peope say one thing and mean something entirely different - but the prose got a little meandering at times.
all in all a good look at a particular place and time, but don't try reading this when you have other things to do.
What a dense book.Like many I found it difficult to follow the dialogue.
It reads like you might expect a teenaged society girl to pick up on life - conversations are snippets, non-sequiturs, outrage and excitement.
We read it as she might have digested it later; who said what is unimportant as she tries to pick a future path for herself, while surrounded by interpersonal hustle and bustle.The author has cleverly equated this with Ireland's simultaneous struggle as a nascent nation, Lois' emerging into womanhood is mirrored by Ireland's birth as a republic.The complexities of each, the overlapping desires of the parties involved, and the leverage of outside influences reflect beautifully.
Bowen may be Irish but she writes like a Brit: "Two armchairs faced round intently into the empty grate with its paper fan." "She glanced intently along the rows of books."Overuse of adverbs and adjectives is a problem for me: "'Aren't we dusty?'" she added as Lois said nothing.
FRANCIE was DUSTY!!The book may get better, but there are too many other books to read.
