https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16188.Wideacre
Beatrice Lacey. This girl, later woman, was very hurt, very obsessed, brimming with (deservedly) self-importance and very  very  *ahem* lustful.That is never a good combination for practially ANTHING.Deranged, oppressive and god damn near suffocating.It’s like watching someone so committed to her road to ruin/success and you have to give props to the woman, disagree with her or not, it takes extraordinary strength and courage (and more than a pinch of delusion) to do it with that sort of ownersh
Beatrice Lacey. This girl, later woman, was very hurt, very obsessed, brimming with (deservedly) self-importance and very 
  very
 *ahem* lustful.That is never a good combination for practially ANTHING.Deranged, oppressive and god damn near suffocating.It’s like watching someone so committed to her road to ruin/success and you have to give props to the woman, disagree with her or not, it takes extraordinary strength and courage (and more than a pinch of delusion) to do it with that sort of ownership. It is delicious in its depravity.
But Philippa Gregory has been the exception.After two rather blah reads (A Respectable Trade and Fallen Skies, the latter which I will certainly re-attempt), this hefty saga was recommended to me by the awesome Sarah, whose similarly awesome review told me that I would most likely love the notorious Wideacre.
But for what Wideacre is, Beatrice feels true kinship that becomes a demented fervor.And, like that village so often quoted about, she has to destroy it in order to save it.
I absolutely hated this book. I don't know why I finished it, except that I like the way Phillipa Gregory writes, I just don't like what she writes about. The heroine is despicable in every possible way, yet the author clearly expects you to root for her à la Scarlett O'Hara. She commits multiple acts of murder, participates in very creepy incest, and betrays people who love her. I'm not particularly squeamish, but I do require some redeeming qualities in a protagonist if I'm to forgive them all that, and Gregory didn't provide them.
Horrible drivel!
I had to scrub my brain after reading it.
The lengths the heroine goes to for her beloved Wideacre would be semi-interesting if we gave a crap in the first place, but since the author can't even manage to do that well we don't give a crap and so it's a waste of our time and money!Other books by this author are far, far better.
Skip it!
Read 'The Other Boleyn Girl' or 'The Boleyn Inheritance'!Another one that went up on Bookmooch right away, and surprisingly was snapped right up.
I gladly paid the postage to mail it away!
Even though it is at times grossly sexual (and I mean gross as in disgusting), the Wideacre trilogy is one of my favorite stories of all time. For me, it really captures the essence of the era, and I loved it so much that I read the entire trilogy (easily 1,500 pages) in about two weeks. If you're not uncomfortable with incest, rape and sodomy, it truly is a wonderful, entertaining read, if for no other reason than to show what lengths people will go to get what they think they want. Highly recommended.
Beatrice Lacy you are one crazy little bitch.
It’s not often that you get to read a story through the eyes of the villain, but I loved it!
I know a lot of people didn’t care for the book because they found the protagonist hard to stomach.
Oh yeah, and the vomit inducing incest probably didn’t help either.
Half way through the book I started to feel a little uncomfortable because I actually liked her despite all this.
Overall, I found it to be a fascinating read, a definite page turner, and I am looking forward to the next two.
The Tudor era doesn't particularly interest me (though I'm not opposed to the period if a novel has elements I enjoy), so I was intrigued by this trilogy for three reasons: 1) the Georgian setting; 2) her earlier (supposedly less-romantic) work; 3) the negative reviews due to an antagonistic & incestuous heroine.I agree the incest is gross.
She's a combination of Victoria & Aurora Floyd & Scarlett O'Hara.So while Beatrice definitely isn't a good person, her villainy has understandable roots.
But I'm sad that so many readers don't look past the grotesque plot points & enjoy the heart of the novel -- a sprawling, semi-gothic epic of a twisted family & its relationship with the land.
Didn't even finish reading this one.
The incest was disturbing, but it wasn't the incest that it caused me to stop reading the book.
I just reached a point where I realized that I had already read 400+ pages of a book I didn't like and was only 2/3 of the way through.
I felt like my time would be better spent doing just about anything other than reading this ridiculous book.I've enjoyed the other PG books centered around Tudor England, but I have no intention of even attempting to read the other two books in this trilogy.
Beatrice Lacey is by far the most horrible, hateful, despicable narrator I've ever read, but I found myself rooting for her throughout all her scandalous deeds- the conspired murder, the attempted murder, the committed murder, the incest, the hidden pregnancies, and on and on the list goes.
I even found myself disliking sweet little Celia, as wonderful a woman as she was, simply because she was Beatrice's enemy.
In any other case, I would despise a woman like Beatrice, but while reading this book, I couldn't help but be on her side.
Because I loved the beginning and disliked the end, I give "Wideacre" three stars.
Very strong social message in this book.
PG likes incest a lot more than I do.
The book was also shocking in many ways all involving the deeds and plans of Beatrice Lacey.
I mean no one!This is quite a salacious read in parts so although I am strongly recommending this book, don’t read it if you’re easily offended!I nearly shut this review down before mentioning the history.
Commons were where the poor could catch rabbits, gather free firewood and once the commons were enclosed and turned into fields for crops, this was no longer an option.
Combine this with rich landowners sending their crops in their entirety to London, keeping prices high, villagers no longer had access to affordable grain.
Beatrice is one of my favorite characters of all times. She is confident, self-assured, unyielding, and maybe one of the biggest bitches in literature. With all the books out there that negate women's power and authority (uh hm...TWILIGHT), Gregory knows how to create a character that uses her strong feminine prowess and works the system. "The system" being the 18th century society in which women had very few rights and entitlement. What I think redeems Beatrice is her connection with the land and it's through this that ties her and her family together. It's dark, historical fiction at its best.
This book was crazy.It was trashy, entertaining, and scandalous. Beatrice was an unlikable character but I LOVED her. She was shameless, and it was oddly refreshing to not have her (really) angst about her moral failings.This was, to date, the most entertaining book Gregory has ever written.Beatrice reminded me a lot of Scarlett, but like the bad girl version.Also some V.C. Andrews thrown in with the incest and gothic feels. Not for the faint of heart tho.
And as for the finale, oh my, such glorious gothic insanity.This would have been a 5 star read for me had the pace kept up throughout, but I'm knocking it down to 4 as - finale aside - the crazy peaked before the 70% mark and then the story went right off the boil.
I get why this quieter section was important but it dragged on way too long, completely spoiling the intensity and the fun; I wanted more bonkers Beatrice, not the villagers' woes and her sister-in-law's do-goodings to right her many magnificent wrongs.
Buddy read with Jemidar and Joanne :-)
The more the story progressed, the less I felt that way, but there were times when I totally could get behind her.This is definitely not a novel for people that are easily disgusted by very, very scandalous behavior--not only does Beatrice help out in having people murdered, but she has an incestuous relationship that is really foul and disgusting.
It seems a lot of readers have gone into it expecting something along the lines of Gregory's newer novels and finding something much more gritty and scandalous.
I’m going to disagree with the majority of reviews here and say that I loved the book.
I couldn’t put it down so much that I had read over half of it on the first day of purchase.
I really liked the style of writing, the way you felt every emotion, good or bad that Beatrice was going through.
The incestuous theme seems to have caused quite a stir here but for me the lead up to it was so intense that I found myself rooting for it to happen!
Yes Beatrice is evil, and yes she is certainly vile but overall she is a fantastic character and makes Wideacre a definite must read.
Brickbats mostly take the form of stabs at her loose writing and her historical inaccuracies, although I can't say much about the latter as I'm no historian and as long as writers get things more or less in the right era, I'm usually OK.I tend towards liking PG's books more than hating them, even though I've felt there's a phoned-in quality to some of her more recent Tudor and Cousins' War efforts.
And the whole brother/sister sex thing reaches right back into ancient mythologies.While Beatrice was in the ascendant I found the book to be a real page-turner.
I almost liked the fact that the main character was so scandalous and cold-hearted because it made the "heroine" of the story be the person you wanted to see lose which made it different from most of the books I've read.
But I don't think I've ever been so grossed out by a book before..
the sex scenes in the book wouldn't really have bothered me - except that she was sleeping with her BROTHER!
I thought about not reading any further but I kept going solely because I don't like to leave things unfinished.
The only reason I gave this book a star is because the darn system wouldn't let me give less.
Now, I'm not a prude who doesn't like my book to contain a bit of a steamy scene once in a while.
In fact, bring it on.
JUST NOT WITH YOUR BROTHER.
However...she lost me when she started thinking up ways to seduce her brother.
This was one that I seriously threw in the garbage half way through...I didn't want to subject another poor person to a book full of nasty shmasty incest.
I have never read a book where I detested the protagonist more than I did in this one.
I have read other of Phillipa Gregory's books and always liked the main character but this one is a dozzy.
She is selfish, she betrays almost everyone in her life all in the need to own the house and property where she grew up, Wideacre.
She even has well I don't want to spoil the plot, so I will only say that I couldn't wait for her to get what she deserved.
I just couldn't like her but there are other nice characters to keep your interest.
This book is seriously trash.
This is the first in a triliogy, and I won't be reading another.
I actually really like Gregory's historical fiction, but I think she must be better when she is left in the confines of real events and people.
If you did and you can get that same vibe going while reading this, you might have a good time.
Or if you love V.C. Andrews (better and more gloriously trashy fun than this), you might like this drivel.
However, if you are looking for historical fiction, try one of Gregory's other books first.
Wowee! What a sociopath the main character in this story is! Beatrice Lacey at fifteen knows she never wants to leave her beloved home at Wideacre. If this means parricide, murder and incest so be it. All I can say is Gregory has written yet another very interesting tale. While you find yourself uncomfortable inside Beatrice's head the story is so salaciously intriguing that you can't stop reading because you need to know the outcome for the dozens of other much more sympathetic characters involved in this tale.
Though I loved The Other Boleyn Girl by P. Gregory, I did not enjoy this one. The main character was a complete witch and didn't deserve any sympathy. I only kept reading it so that she would get her cumupins, which she rightly deserved. There was one particular aspect of the book that made my skin crawl and I felt dirty for just reading it. I have really no desire to read the other books in the trilogy if all of them are like this.
If Gone With the Wind happened in England...it might look a little like this!A ruthlessly sexy yet detestible anti-heroine captivates your attention as she will do anything to inherit her childhood plantation, including[--------SPOILER--------:]arrange the murder of her own father, murder the murderer, commit incest with her brother, strangle-hold her own sister-in-law, arrange the murder of her mother, and drive her husband to ruin.Yet with all this evil, the book's genteel language and spectacular attention to detail keeps you absorbed in the time and place. Like The Other Boelyn Girl? You'll love this.
I had initially wanted to read "The Other Boleyn Girl" first, but it was unavailable, so I picked up Wideacre first and cracked it open with anticipation....I think I had read 4 chapters before I threw it against the wall.
I think there has only been a couple of times where I just can't finish a book, usually I'll plod through just because I feel guilty for not finishing!
But with this book, I just absolutely hated the characters!
Ugh!
I'll most likely give "The Other Boleyn Girl" a shot...but ugh...I really hope it doesn't suck like this one!
As this is a story set in the eighteen hundreds, Beatrice comes to realise very early that this land she loves, this land that's a big part of who she is, will be handed to her uncaring, sickly and largely absent brother, Harry.
However I've read many negative reviews of this novel and so I know this isn't the case for everybody.One of the reviews I read early on pointed out how this story could not have been written from Celia's, or indeed any other characters's, point of view other than that of Beatrice.
Writing this story from anyone else's view would have been to lessen Beatrice's character and flatten the entire narrative.

One of PG's earliest novels, this one was a novel that I did not like at all.
Beatrice Lacey, the heroine, is utterly without morals or discretion in striving to keep her home, Wideacre, in her own hands.
While at first I was somewhat intrigued, this novel descended rapidly into a turgid, highsexed travesty of a story, worst still, it grinds on endlessly over hundreds of pages.
If you can handle this one, there are two more books in the series, but they do require intenstinal fortitude to wade through.
Not recommended at all.
For the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Wideac...
Beatrice Lacey must be one of the most vindictive, selfish, pathetic, scheming, genius, bitches I've ever read about. I love her.
