https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1171727.Malpertuis
Ancient pagan deities are not dead – they were captured and now live in hiding in the old dilapidated mansion named Malpertuis.In order to create this gorgeous and flowery Gothic novel Jean Ray lavishly used mythology and mysticism so the atmosphere of the novel is intriguingly enigmatic and its artfully macabre aura is quite enchanting.
Should this belief wither, the gods will die.”Have no fear, the ancient gods won’t die.
As long as we read Homer, Virgil and Malpertuis they will live.
Liked the concept. The frame narratives were cool. The main story itself seemed a bit underdone. Certainly didn't merit the Lovecraft comparisons in terms of creepiness. The main character JJ was so bland it was hard to care or, more importantly, buy that he motivated the events that moved around him. And I have a peev about characters just walking out of the story -- I was expecting more from/about Nancy, especially. I was just expecting something more brilliant and experimental, but this was entertaining enough, and I learned a couple new words.anagyrisvulnerary: of use in the healing of wounds.
This book was written in 1943 by "Jean Ray" the best-known pseudonym among the many used by Raymundus Joannes de Kremer (8 July 1887 – 17 September 1964).
The book was originally written in French and this edition was translated by Iain White and published in England.
According to the introduction (written by White) this is "Jean Ray's" only full length novel, what a shame.
Mr. White compares Ray to H.
This book is much much more enticing and moody.Malpertuis is a crumbling, ancient monastery where a dying warlock has trapped the aging gods of Olympus inside the skins of ordinary citizens.p75.
I can't even begin to describe how much I adored this mysterious and inscrutable tale of tenebrous and awe-inspiring gloom. I saw the film about a year ago, and it left its mark on my soul, but I still was not prepared for the greatness that was this book, which was quite different from the film, from what I recall. Perhaps I shall find it in me to write a review at some point that will do Malpertuis justice, but at this point I think I just need to let the feelings it stirred within me percolate. Brilliant!
Extravagantly weird mid-century refitting of gothic dread around an eerie house and cast of odd characters vaguely competing for an inheritance.
Unlike the somewhat messy film version, this succeeds in maintaining mood and intrigue, and gradually unspooling its sublimely unforeseeable plot (punctuated with audacious scenes of unexpected action) for the full length.
Others have noted that it's basically a pulp story (a bit haunted house and a bit And Then There Were None), but again, a singularly weird one (and escapes from being anything really reducible to either of those archetypes), with scenes of unparalleled quasi-surrealist insanity.
Really, this was perfect pre-Halloween reading.
This book just swims in mood, a Gothic mood of oppressive melancholy and quiet waiting, yet it's punctuated by inexplicable, horrific events that remain completely unexplained for some time.I really enjoy Jean Ray's short stories, some of which I think are masterpieces of weird fiction.
I think I enjoyed this more, with a 50,000~ word novel we can become a bit more engrossed.I have to mention the visual quality of this book, it's like a German expressionist film.
The story primarily takes place in a dark mansion; poorly-lit by lamps and candles, full of high ceilings, long shadows, black corridors.
An astonishing post-modern Gothic novel that has to be read more than once, seriously, to be understood and appreciated. When I say you must re-read it, you must; you will simply not "get" it all if you don't.Brush-up on your Bullfinch too.
I didn't have any idea what to expect before reading this but did so solely on the basis of a recommendation from someone whose judgement I trusted and I knew nothing about it or the author.
Gothic prose, macabre similes, a creepy atmosphere and bizarre character and plot developments sustained my interest throughout.
The shadowy, intriguing mystery of Malpertius was gradually unveiled but its precise nature only revealed at the end although there were many clues and hints throughout.In some ways, it felt older than it actually is (published in 1943) and I would recommend this to all fans of classic horror.
Men are not born of the whim or will of the gods.
On the contrary, gods owe their existence to the belief of men.
Should this belief wither, the gods will die.Quando dicono che questo è un romanzo straordinario lo si deve intendere in senso letterale: è fuori dall'ordinario.
È un romanzo WEIRD perciò è contemporaneamente fantasy, gotico e ironico.
Mi meraviglio che non ne abbiano ancora fatto un film moderno; quello del '71 probabilmente non è stato nemmeno doppiato.
Questa analisi non è mia, ma la linko per non perderla: http://www.genovalibri.it/rubi_ferli/...
Jean Ray, where have you been all my life? Malpertuis is a complex and at times confusing novel, but it's also a fantastic one, full of exactly the kind of stuff that I love in my weird fiction, as well as the kind of stuff that I love in my Gothic fiction. The ultimate solution to the mystery is obvious, but somehow getting there never feels like it is, and the whole production has such an ominous, almost apocalyptic quality that everything is carried along with a kind of breathless urgency.
Gli scritti di Jean Ray me li sarei goduti molto di più se li avessi letti a vent’anni, perché ne avrei apprezzato incondizionatamente il lato fantastico e meraviglioso senza vederne i difetti, il principale dei quali è l’estrema artificiosità nella costruzione dell’intreccio, tipica anche dei racconti.
Il realismo nella minuziosa descrizione degli ambienti, non tanto quelli paurosi, quanto quelli più accoglienti, riscaldati dal tepore del fuoco, arredati con tavole ricche di pietanze succulente, è quasi una compensazione fantastica della fame e della stanchezza ataviche del viaggiatore, così come le potenze infernali che vi irrompono sono una squisita vendetta contro la confortevole (invidiabile?) vita dei privilegiati.
There are, I think, four inter-layered plots.
In the first 40 some pages of the book, it seemed that one plot would start, but then in the next chapter, another plot would start.
For me, the book picked up after page 40, and the last 1/3 of the book--where all the plots are resolved-- was glorious.
All the plots are about a house named Malpertuis.A major plot is about a Rosicrusian who, using occult methods, imprisoned the supernatural beings of ancient Greek mythology, such as Zeus, Medusa, etc, in Malpertuis.
Après une rude déception lors de ma lecture des contes du whisky, j’ai retenté ma chance avec Malpertuis.
J’ai passé moins de 5 heures à lire ce chef-d’oeuvre d’angoisse et de folie.
Le style qui pointait déjà son nez dans l’autre livre prend ici toute son ampleur, et l’univers bariolé et fantasmagorique de Jean Ray s’épanouit sous sa plume.
Un vieux riche anciennement marin lègue sur son lit de mort sa maison et sa fortune à des héritiers plus ou moins apparentés, à la condition que tous vivent sous le même toit.
La conclusion est tout à fait inattendue puisque des révélations et des explications nous ont faites jusqu’à la dernière page.
A wonderfully weird and humorous horror fantasy, like Poe on acid. How can you not love lines like this: "Nancy swanned into the kitchen; she preferred crepes to waffles and would tear them between her teeth like scraps of burning skin."
Вообще, можно было бы ограничиться этим фото, потому что оно отлично показывает, какая книга. Вот такая: Marie Cécile Thijs ”Girl with White Collar” Это история трех авантюристов, решившихся на страшную дерзость. история их потомков, избывающих семейное проклятие в особняке Мальпертюи. История Мальпертюи - странного и неприятного дома, названного в честь обиталища Рейнеке-Лиса. Здесь стены украшают уродливые барельефы, а в саду не живет ни одна птица.Это не роман ужасов, это роман о предчувствии
Вообще, можно было бы ограничиться этим фото, потому что оно отлично показывает, какая книга.
история их потомков, избывающих семейное проклятие в особняке Мальпертюи.
История Мальпертюи - странного и неприятного дома, названного в честь обиталища Рейнеке-Лиса.
Автор, Жан Рэ - бельгиец из Гента, поэтому его готика покоится на фламандской основательности.
Потому что биография самого автора - интереснейший мир.
Мальчик из Гента, наслушавшийся историй сиделки, мастер "странных рассказов", мошенник и тоже в чем-то авантюрист.
Потому что слои истории уходят очень глубоко.
В первый раз я эту книгу увидела лет так пятнадцать назад, полистала, но денег было на что-то одно (кажется, на Сапковского).
Antic and crazed, bizarre and idiosyncratic European Gothic. A puzzle box of a novel that can probably only be opened by stomping underfoot. But no doubt best not to try...
I did not read this.
A reviewer on Amazon called this "A VERITABLE MASTERPIECE IN SEARCH OF READERS." At $66 for a paperback edition the book is going to stay in search of readers.
I do not understand why dealers alienate the people they should try to appeal to by charging such prices.
Okay, so it's rare.
But do people who buy rare books actually read them, or do they put them on a display shelf where they are never handled?
Unread books may as well not exist in the first place.
And why does GR recommend books that are inaccessible to most readers?
Annyira optimistán, bizakodva álltam a regényhez, hogy szinte arculcsapásként ért, mennyire unalmas és semmitmondó az egész narráció, amit csak néhol, pillanatokra tör meg egy-két érdekfeszítőbb félmondat (főleg a haldokló nagybácsi szájából, szóval a halála után még siralmasabb lesz a helyzet, mint addig).
A házban összegyűlő család tagjai olyan sokan vannak, és oly’ érdektelen személyiségek – tisztelet a kivételnek –, hogy nem igazán tudtam még összeszámolni sem, hogy pontosan hányan is jönnek össze az esti vacsora-partikra.
Mondom ezt úgy, jelzem újra, hogy ez a fajta stílus annyira nem áll messze tőlem, és valami hasonlóra – csak valóban élvezetesre!

My advice is, don't read anything about this book before you actually read the book. It will, at first, unfold as a strange, dark, gothic story with hints of the supernatural. It is puzzling at first but quite fascinating. In the denouement we find out what has actually been happening, and who these strange characters really are, and it is a fascinating revelation. That's all I can say without spoiling it.
Rating: 5 starsLivre lu pour l'école. Ce livre est bizarre, et il est difficile de comprendre quoi que ce soit jusqu'à la fin. La, l'écrivain réussit à nous en mettre pleins les yeux. J'ai adoré ce livre, et je le conseille à tout le monde!
Aki belga Lovecraftnak nevezi a szerzőt, az Lovecraft-kötetet csak becsukva látott.
Bizarre but fascinating surreal fantasy.
termites
Mais ce n’est que lorsque son propriétaire Cassave meurt que l’histoire se met en branle.
Le personnage que l’on suit le plus, Jean-Jacques n’est qu’un spectateur de ce qui lui arrive à cause de cette maison maudite.
Il est difficile de parler de l’histoire sans trop en révéler car tout est teinté de mystère.Mais encore plus que les personnages ou l’histoire, ce qui fait la force de ce roman, c’est son atmosphère.
Attention à ne pas lire ce livre la nuit, on ne sait pas ce qui pourrait surgir des ténèbres.Si vous souhaitez découvrir un classique de la littérature belge francophone, un classique du fantastique et de l’horreur, Malpertuis est fait pour vous.
The penultimate section makes it somewhat more clear, and the scholarly essay at the back of the current French-language edition further elucidates Ray's technique and aims, but the book's structure and style throughout most of the novel made it a somewhat disorienting and frustrating read (no doubt deliberate on the author's part).Structure-wise, with its frame story and narratives piled on top of narratives, spanning several generations, pieced together from yellowing manuscripts, it reminded me of Maturin's Gothic masterpiece 'Melmoth the Wanderer', while its hallucinatory, dreamlike narrative style in places reminded me of works like Lautréamont's 'Maldoror'.
Which it is, sort of, but the nature of the haunting is unexpected and highly original, though it may not satisfy all readers.
Il lavoro di ricostruzione affidato ai diversi narratori è anche efficace, non si perde mai di vista l'aspetto soggettivo e memoriale della narrazione, con un risultato che immagino più riuscito di quanto non sarebbe stato con un unico narratore eterodiegetico.
Pecca solo di didascalia nelle fasi finali, quando si ha la necessità di gettare più luce sul mistero di quanto forse non sarebbe stato necessario, o almeno non così banalmente.
Non incide troppo negativamente sul piacere della lettura, anche in questi momenti riesce a regalare immagini di indubbia forza, ma sa un po' troppo di soluzione facilotta.
Uno dei libri più citati ma meno reperibili (finora) del fantastico novecentesco.È una storia raccontata in modo frammentato, orrorifica e beffarda allo stesso tempo. Il riferimento più pigro è un Lovecraft beffardo, ma in realtà è qualcosa di completamente diverso e personale, come approccio.Edizione da edicola, ma resta a catalogo in eBook
Poderoso ejemplo de lo que es una historia de terror y fantasía contada con seriedad, profesionalismo y sin dejar cabos sueltos. Ojalá los Stephen King de la vida escribiesen con la seriedad y el respeto a las historias bien contadas y sólidas como lo hizo Jean Ray en esta obra maestra.
I'm very grateful to my stepfather who quite literally put this book in my hand and forced me to read it. This is Edgar Allan Poe meets American Gods, with just a dash of The Name of the Rose, written in 1940s Belgium. And yes, it’s exactly as good as it sounds.
