https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84525.What_Got_You_Here_Won_t_Get_You_There
لم أخرج من الكتاب بأي شئ جديد، أكثر من 300 صفحة من الهراء
The author summarizes 20 of the worst interpersonal habits successful employees exhibit in the workp
Half the leaders I have met don’t need to learn what to do.
(c)Q:But for some reason, many people enjoy living in the past, especially if going back there lets them blame someone else for anything that’s gone wrong in their lives.
(c)Q:When you start a sentence with “no,” “but,” “however,” or any variation thereof, no matter how friendly your tone or how many cute mollifying phrases you throw in to acknowledge the other person’s feelings, the message to the other person is You are wrong.
(c)Q:As a general rule, people in their 20s want to learn on the job.
Telling the world how smart we are: The need to show people we’re smarter than they think we are.
عودة إلى كتب التنمية الذاتية بعد انقطاع طويل، وتلك المرة عن كتاب حول النجاحالكتاب يركز بشكل كبير على العادات السلوكية الخاطئة التي تقف سبيل عثرة في طريق النجاح وكيفية التخلص منها، ويوجه الكاتب العديد من النصائح بعضها عملية وقابلة للتطبيق وبعضها مجرد حبر على ورقلم استفد من الكتاب كثيراً، لكنه رغم ذلك يحوى عض الفصول الممتعة ويستحق القراءة
I particularly like te 20 habits section as, although they are common sense things, they all need to be brought up again and again.The thrust of the book is all about how, as a successful person, you can go to the next level.
It also points out how these destructive behaviors don't hold you back until you get to a certain level in a company, then they become a problem.
There is too much emphasis on "this client of mine" and every story doesn't need to start with that phrase which begins to be self-congratulatory to my mind and eventually annoying.I am going to stop reading it now - may come back to it
If you made it to the executive suite and you're a gigantic asshole, congratulations!
This book is just for you.
Marshall Goldsmith will be happy to get paid good money to teach you how to pretend that you're not an immature ego-maniac.Anyone else: steer away, far away.
Also, something else about biz books in general: too often they bear titles that promise great depths of analysis and solutions, but once you get through them you realize they are either an ego-trip by the author (what I have done and why I'm cool) or a collection of anecdotes that, while interesting to read, do not represent a serious analysis of the subject at hand.
The book contains 20 habits that hold you back (from getting “there”, remember?) as well as a plethora of other bejewelled nuggets such as how you can change for the better.
Judging others, Marshall tells us, pushes people away and limits our opportunities for success.2) Habit #5 that holds you back: Starting with “No”, “But” or “However”.
“Is it worth it?” will also show the other person who you are and that you care about them.4) Changing for the better: Practicing gratitude.
I feel like I do pretty well with the gratitude thing but Marshall, bless him, gave me a really good idea in this area which is so important to me.
Actual advice in this book:"Treat every day as if it were a press conference during which your colleagues are judging you, waiting to see you trip up." (p. 146)
Telling the world how smart you are: the need to show people we're smarter than they think we are.7.
Making excuses: the need to reposition our annoying behavior as a permanent fixture so people excuse us for it.13.
Clinging to the past: the need to deflect blame away from ourselves and onto events and people from our past; a subset of blaming everyone else.14.
Refusing to express regret: the inability to take responsibility for our actions, admit we're wrong, or recognize how our actions affect others.16.
Failing to express gratitude: the most basic form of bad manners.18.
Passing the buck: the need to blame everyone but ourselves.20.
قرأت الكتاب بنسخته العربية وإلى جانبي النسخة الأصلية أيضا..الترجمة جيدة..لا تلوموا الترجمة دوما يا أصدقائي، فالأفكار العادية مهما تفننت في ترجمتها فلن تحصل على شيء جيّد..الكتاب ليس سيئا جدا.. لكن أقولها ومن الآخر.. هو يوجه نصائح في تزكية النفس وحسن الخُلق للمديرين ليس أكثر..عن الصدق.. والتواضع.. والاعتراف بالأخطاء.. وعدم تصغير الآخرين..كلها من المسلّمات لدينا، فهي ليست فتحا مبينا.. إنما يجب تطبيقها..1439
Instead, stay neutral, genuinely thank the person for taking the time to share their feedback, save that feedback for your own future consideration, and move on.* If people aren't volunteering feedback, the only valid question you can use to seek out feedback is, “how can I do better?" You can use more specific variations of this, such as, "how can I do better at X?" This works because people are often willing to share advice on what can be done in the future, whereas they might be hesitant to critique what you did wrong in the past (especially if you're in a position of power).
Pros: Solid content. What Goldsmith says makes sense. His "Twenty Habits That Hold You Back" are a great list of things everyone should stop doing. Similarly, his fixes - "How We Can Change for the Better" - are practical, worthwhile and beneficial.Cons: Reliance on personal experience and anecdotes to the point of solipsism; a skewed view of human behavior that favors extrinsic motivators (power, money, status, popularity, legacy, rewards, etc) over intrinsic ones (purpose, autonomy, mastery); a definition of "successful people" that relies almost exclusively on a corporate/hierarchical model; excessive golf analogies.
Really? You couldn't have told me all this in like 10 pages. I felt like he kept saying the same thing over, and over, and over again. Commonsense 101, how unfortunate that we live in a society that has to write a book to tell people you should send a thank you note. Isn't that a sweet little lesson grandma's teach you when your four?
In reality it is anything but that, it’s a grounded and well written book that focuses on the problems which come from moving up the leadership ladder while still retaining old habits.As the title indicates, the very qualities that get people promoted and make them successful can often be the ones that cause them trouble in their new positions and responsibilities.
Just one example is being over competitive, sure it can make a person very successful as they climb the ladder, but once in higher positions it can have adverse effects.I’ve used the terms senior and higher positions, but anyone who is changing roles through promotion can benefit from this book.
One of the best non-fiction books I have read off late.Read this book if you want to identify the blind spots in your behavior which might sabotage your own career at some point of time.
كثيراً ما نخدع أنفسنا فيما يتعلق بإنجازاتنا ودورنا في العمل حين ننحو إلى المبالغة في تقدير إسهاماتنا في أي مشروع.
حتى إننا نبالغ في تقدير أرباح مشروعاتنا لأننا نخصم منها التكاليف الحقيقية والخفية والكامنة فيها، ونعتبر التكاليف مشكلة شخص آخر، أما النجاح فينسب لنا.
فهو ينصح مثلا بسؤال الرأي الصريح للزملاء ، ثم تحديد السلوكيات التي يجب تعديلها ( ونشدد هنا على أنها السلوكيات وليست المهارات أو المعارف ) ثم الاعتذار عنها ، والابتعاد عنها مستقبلا من أجل تحسين مستمر وقمة أعلى على سلم النجاح الإداري والوظيفي.
Apparently getting to the corner office on the top floor just requires much of what your kindergarten teacher tried to impart on you: listen to people, say ”please” and ”thank you” and always use your inside voice.
Goldsmith and Reiter claim these principles are gleamed from hundreds of coaching sessions with CEO’s and their direct reports.
In truth many executives are tall on height but short on people skills and to some limited degree the Goldsmith/Reiter politeness prescription would definitely help.
However, generally those with the sharpest elbow and loosest scruples (e.g., ”Chainsaw” Al Dunlap) have the advantage against similarly savvy executives.
In short Goldsmith can help you once you are there but can’t help you get there.
This is a book for those that are already 'successful' (by your own definition), so it may not be for everyone. Things that I learned:- You will need help from others to become a better person. You are not a good judge for your self improvements.- The ones that can validate your improvement is your peers or colleagues.- Even the most successful people can still improve themselves by using feedback from other people.
Because at first glance, this books seems directed toward those in corporate or business work, initially I can understand why those not in those fields (like myself: a housewife, mother) wonder if it would be a beneficial expense of time.
(And in the case that you're wanting solicited feedback from people you know, there's a 250 question survey you can copy and send along for your betterment!)Some of the book delves into the psychological aspect of our brains: humans consistently rate themselves higher than they're worth, for instance.
I would totally recommend this book to EVERYONE!

There is a fantastic learning in whatever Marshall Goldsmith is trying to convey in What Got You Here Won’t Get You There: How Successful People Become Even More Successful.
By the time you are able to adhere to these points, you are a totally transformed project manager who will look at everything with a different perspective.
We need to realize it beforehand and then simply stay away from it.15) We tend to refuse to express regret at the time it is required.
Second Review - graphic novel version - 4 stars - 31st Dec 2016My work role has now changed and as a senior person within a different organisation this book is a bit more relevant.
That's if they ever knew in the first place.So perhaps there are things I can learn from this for when I begin to get to those senior levels of management (should I ever want to).I won't be reading this book again (no way) but I will think about what I learnt here so that whenever I find myself working with people or leading them I can be aware of negative or disempowering styles of leadership and make sure I don't inflict those styles of leadership on others.
Yes, this book was on the dry side, and since I have no desire to go into "management" or any kind of leadership I do wonder if it was a waste of my time.
Still, for the genre, this book was better than most.Most "leadership" oriented books seem to be all about pep-talking people into having more confidence.
This books is written by a guy who works with people who are already successful, and are heading to even higher levels.
He gets feedback from their subordinates, and if there are character flaws, he finds them, and then he makes you focus on those until you get better.
I like practical thoughts from business dudes. They help me keep thinking about how to lead. Goldsmith is helping people not just succeed at being skilled, but succeed at relating well -- that is key to making something worthwhile happen. Kind of a "duh!" -- but it is amazing what we don't think about, once we are in the habits of being jerks.
Excellent read for any leader. Critical insights about your own behavior and how it affects those who work with you.
Actually, reading this book has changed my mindset about how to get better or getting more successful.
He try to identify 20 annoying habits with good explanations on each ones, ranging from intention to win too much, passing on judgement, negativity, punishing massagers, an excessive need to be ‘me’, etc.
Finally, he offered 6 rules that can help us change for better, ranging from seeking feedback to listening, thanking to follow.
I would recommend this book to those who want to get better at workplace and more successful with being well respected by employees.
Pentru oamenii de succes cu rezultate deja exceptionale care au probleme de atitudine sau comportamentale.
Cartea se deschide cu motoul "Fericiti sunt cei care isi pot auzi defaimarea si o pot corecta" (W.
Shakespeare, "Mult zgomot pentru nimic"), care rezuma in fraza asta nu numai dorinta oamenilor de a se schimba, ci si acceptarea faptului ca au o problema, dupa ce primesc un feedback negativ.O carte pe care vrei sa o studiezi, chiar daca nu esti o persoana de succes (orice ar insemna asta), dar vrei sa-ti corectezi anumite comportamente de care nu esti constient ca iti fac rau in evolutia ta sociala si spirituala.si un paragraf:"Daca studiezi oamenii de succes, vei descoperi ca povestile lor nu se refera intr-o masura atit de mare la invingerea obstacolelor si a handicapurilor, ci mai degraba la evitarea situatiilor de inalt risc si a recompenselor micsorate, si ca fac tot ce le sta in putere sa creasca avantajele in favoarea lor."
Хорошая, понятная книга про тонкие настройки для людей уже достигших высоких результатов. Часто достигая успеха мы не заметно для себя меняем свои модели поведения со своим коллегам, подчинёнными не всегда в лучшею строну. Маршал обращает внимание на типичные ошибки которые может совершить топ менеджер. Вроде бы прописные истины, и тем не менее мы наступаем на одни те же грабли. Гриша будет полезна всем.
I like how he put all of these psychological dynamics of people, whom have a strong desire to change, and variables into actionable, real life tactics and behaviors. I like it and found very actionable.Definitely a very good read.
This book joins High Output Management as most influential management books I've read. What a gem with 10s of incredibly practical ideas that I'm eager to start incorporating. Without a doubt will enter my re-read list.
