https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78274.The_Harvest_Gypsies
In 1936 the San Francisco News  commissioned John Steinbeck, who was just starting to achieve recognition as a novelist, to write a series of articles about conditions for migrant farm workers in the Salinas Valley.
The seven articles were originally published between October 5 and October 12, 1936.
In 1938 Steinbeck allowed the Simon J.
Lubin Society to re-publish the articles with an additional eighth chapter in a pamphlet entitled Their Blood is Strong.The articles are of inherent interest, because Steinbeck was an excellent journalist.
But they're particularly important because they led Steinbeck to write The Grapes of Wrath.
Their shared subject is the wave of migrant workers who flooded California during the mid-1930's from the Dust Bowl states.
Steinbeck went on to write The Grapes of Wrath, citing these articles as his inspiration; Dorothea Lange's famous photo, Migrant Mother, became the defining image of dignity under duress during the Great Depression.
Steinbeck's style of writing in these articles lacks the poetry he achieves in his fiction, but his message of condemnation for the status quo is unequivocal.
It is a wonderful companion piece to both The Grapes of Wrath and Mary Coin, a fictionalized version of Lange's life and work.
He refers to them as fascists.In 2016 brutal Big Farms would be called “job creators” and the starved, attempting to organize workers would be labelled “terrorists”, methinks.There is a review of the various outlanders who are brought in as peon labor - Chinese, then Japanese, then Mexicans, then Filipinos - but separates them, in their living standards, what should be afforded them, and certainly their futures - from white “Americans”.
“To attempt to force them into a peonage of starvation and intimidated despair will be unsuccessful.”He believed that the terror brought down on every group that attempted to organize, by the fascist vigilantes would be the end of agriculture in California - because the workers will be white (i.e.
El complemento perfecto para la lectura de "Las uvas de la ira". Un libro de no ficción (ojalá lo que cuenta fuera ficción) que remueve.
I read The Grapes of Wrath about 40 years ago, and I remember the John Ford movie much better than I remember the book.
The sketches in these seven articles are harrowing, more so than anything I remember from the book.
Basically, this small series of articles carries all the political weight of the novel in about 1/20th the space, and even as short as they are, these articles are still redundant.
And, to some extent at least, it confirms my suspicion that the novel was not quite as brutal as the picture painted by these articles.
I liked these articles, but I had hoped they might inspire me to re-read the book.
Steinbeck escribe de fábula, está claro. En este caso es un tipo reportaje-ensayo sobre las condiciones de los aparceros, jornaleros, etc. y sus familias en los años 30. La verdad es que leyendo este libro ves el asco que da la humanidad. Recomendable, se lee en un rato y Steinbeck cuenta todo muy clarito.
The series of newspaper articles Steinbeck wrote depicting the hardships of the "okies" who traveled to California to work as migrant laborers after the dust bowl. Served as inspiration and background research for The Grapes of Wrath. Depressing--in comparison The Grapes of Wrath is upbeat.
In 1936, John Steinbeck toured the migrant camps and government camps of California.
He wrote seven articles about the plight of the migrant workers that were published in The San Francisco News.
The Harvest Gypsies is the compilation of those articles.Having read The Grapes of Wrath there's not much to say about The Harvest Gypsies.
Told in a concise, largely journalistic voice, The Harvest Gypsies doesn't leave too much room for the Steinbeck we love, but he does make brief appearances.The Harvest Gypsies is a very thin book primarily for Steinbeck fans.
The Seven articles written by Steinbeck published in the San Francisco News in the 30s read like radio or documentary narration..
They are news articles though, so while Steinbeck does seem to tell it like it is in horrible detail, there's not much one can do but wonder how we got through this decade.
In hindsight it is temporarily warming to know things get better for everyone eventually, for a time..
but these things do keep happening because we're not willing to learn from our predecessors and make life better for each other while we're harvesting all that money in fields or financial districts.
A series of investigative newspaper articles Steinbeck had published in 1936 describing the conditions faced by those displaced by the Dust Bowl and living California.
The last article in the series is Steinbeck's view on what should be done to ameliorate the conditions of those living under the tyranny of large farms and communities unwilling to recognize them as humans.
I respect and greatly admire Steinbeck in that he not only describes the problems faced by those living as migrants in California but he also offers a solution.
Steinbeck's work in bringing awareness to the situation with insightful, concise and incredible writing makes him a true American hero.
Powerful portrayal of California during the Great Depression, especially in the Central Valley where agricultural conditions where deplorable.
This book will make your blood boil because of so much injustice and you would end up thinking if those huge agribusiness tycoons are human beings at all!It is such a sad story and so many things that they went through.
Many times we don't think of the people who help bring food to our table, the growers, and not the people who own the land but the people who actually work on it.
California is not a land for small farmers but huge mega corporations.
THIS BOOK NEEDS TO BE ANNEXED INTO MODERN EDITIONS OF "GRAPES OF WRATH"!!!! These are basically the scientific notes by Steinbeck which allowed him to write Wrath in the detail he did.Did you know that California orchards can sustain themselves in the off-season with just 20 employees, but when the window for picking and canning comes, the orchard needs 2,000 employees?!?! This creates an absolute we-need-migrants/we-hate-migrants mentality.FIVE-STARS! RECOMMEND THIS BOOK TO EVERYONE!
The Harvest Gypsies is a series of seven newspaper articles published in 1936 chronicling the plight of migrant farm workers in California. These are more than just news articles, they are advocacy pieces. The seeds of Steinbeck's later work The Grapes of Wrath are clear.My edition included an informative introduction by Charles Wollenberg and photographs by Dorothea Lange and others, dated mostly from the years immediately after the articles were published
Fascinating, powerful and horrifying, written in an objective style yet still allowing Steinbeck's disgust and shame at the way his native California was treating migrant workers to come through. The photographs say almost as much as the text (which only runs to some 44 pages). Well worth a read.
1. Contexto históricoPublicado en 1936, esta obra presenta la historia norteamericana durante la segunda mitad de los años 30, en mitad de la Gran Depresión y después de haberse dado el fenómeno del Dust Bowl.La Gran Depresión comienza en 1929, crisis económica mundial que se prolongó desde la década de los años 30 hasta principios de los años 40. Este grave suceso se vio agravado por lo que se conoció como “Dust Bowl”, uno de los desastres ecológicos más graves de la historia, que provocó la ma
Estos, se moverán a través del país con la necesidad de volver a conseguir nuevas tierras y empezar a formar su nuevo negocio.Artículo IILa situación y composición de los campos de “vagabundos” es bastante similar entre ellos: cercanos a fuentes de agua y repletos de casas construidas con materiales desechados y maderas, y en condiciones insalubres, ya que todo el dinero que obtienen de trabajar en las cosechas se destina única y exclusivamente a comida.Se narra la degradación que sufren los antes miembros de la clase media, hasta que se convierten en clase baja.
In the late 1930's, John Steinbeck wrote a series of articles about the migrant farm workers in California most of whom had fled the mid-western dust bowl.
While most of the essays don't reveal anything that we don't already know about these people during the Great Depression, I'm sure they were real eye openers to many Americans who were not aware of this situation.
Steinbeck writes with emotion and compassion that at times borders on pleading for someone to do something.
This short volume is augmented by a section of photos many of which are by the great Dorothea Lange.
A very short read. This collection of journalism articles on the migrant workers in California in the 1930s formed the research for the Grapes of Wrath. Written between the publication of In Dubious Battle and The Grapes of Wrath it shows how Steinbeck links social issues with literary interests and human emphasis. The pictures of the migrant camps are very moving. It is a shame that 80 years later the same problems in our society still exist.
Esta pequeña novela es más bien un estudio sobre la población americana que se dedicaba a ir de campo en campo de jornaleros, sin embargo, no es algo pesado porque está muy bien contado, sin datos estadísticos que aburran y te muestra la realidad que vivieron en la Gran Depresión. Os lo recomiendo, sobre todo, porque este hombre escribe muy bien, ya lo había comprobado antes
The reviewers on thise pages have got it mostly all there is to say about these sad stories.
Great insight into the human condition and why there are imbeciles like the current fool sitting in the White House (or out on some damn golf course).
Excellent background to his book, The grapes of wrath
Read it because it was added to the ninth grade non-fiction list where I teach. I think it will encourage students to read Grapes of Wrath which is on the eleventh grade list.
È la raccolta degli articoli scritti da John Steinbeck nel 1935 a testimonianza e denuncia di quanto stava succedendo ai migranti americani in viaggio verso la California.
Interesting research of what was really happening during the migration to California from Oklahoma. Steinbeck did and incredible job of weaving them into The Grapes of Wrath.
Searing in its examination of how American labor is exploited.
Just 2 as I don't think it adds much to the narrative.
One of the most insightful, and also saddest, books about migrant labor conditions and experiences in the United States.
Wish he had written more. Well written, concise articles. Breezed through it very quickly, wish there was more. The situations Steinbeck describes are captivating in the worst sense.
It echoed of current events, struggles and alienation of "the other." While in this case, the "other" were fellow Americans, the sentiments are all the same.
Each driving the case of labor down more and more, as they were willing to work for less and less in pursuit of making a living.
It speaks to the struggle of importing such labor because as soon as those immigrants had served their purpose - we discarded them like trash and immediately targeted "them" as the enemy.
While we appear to have come so far, this book, and the current American attitude toward immigration and politics has me wondering how true that really is?
Además de la calidad de   John STEINBECK  como autor de obras literarias, también fue un excelente reportero de investigación, tal como se puede constatar en los artículos que le publicó el San Francisco News en 1936, sobre el fenómeno de la migración de agricultores de los estados del sureste de EEUU a California. Además de la aguda visión y certero diagnóstico que STEINBECK realiza en esta serie de reportajes, estos artículos resultan de mucho interés porque en ellos se encuentra la semilla qu
como autor de obras literarias, también fue un excelente reportero de investigación, tal como se puede constatar en los artículos que le publicó el San Francisco News en 1936, sobre el fenómeno de la migración de agricultores de los estados del sureste de EEUU a California.
Además de la aguda visión y certero diagnóstico que STEINBECK realiza en esta serie de reportajes, estos artículos resultan de mucho interés porque en ellos se encuentra la semilla que daría origen a  The Grapes of Wrath, libro por el cual se hizo merecedor del Premio Pulitzer.
