https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17401136-vurt
Dear Gods.This isn't a book.
If you have the right past - and if you've come past it far enough - you can identify with everything this book reveals.
If you've had the experiences, you can follow every loop as it goes round.And as it stops.From fractal bullets to the icecream van in the middle of the post-Ramadan party, this is evocative, powerfully visual and leaves you pressed against the back of your chair, hanging on for dear life.Particularly on audiobook, and with a masterful narrator, it's not something to be missed.
I was given this book when it first came out in the early 90's and was completely blown away.
I re-read the book last year and it still is as enjoyable as it was 15 years ago.
Noon takes the reader through the drug riddled streets of future London.
If you like to eat aliens, if you worship the game cat, if you think people should mate and have offspring with dogs, if you have ever wanted to be so close to your lover that your hair grows together for twenty feet, or if you just like early psychedelic cyber-punk, read this book.
I don't leave books unfinished very often, but I just couldn't bring myself to keep reading Vurt. Noon's cyberpunk drug-culture epic strives to describe a psychedelic future/alternate Manchester, but fails quite obviously - halfway through the book, his cast of characters have yet to spend more than a few moments in the eponymous cyber-drug-world. In addition, his characters are wooden and, despite their depressing hijinks-filled lifestyle, largely uninteresting. I didn't care about them, and the potentially rich tapestry of their world wasn't sufficiently embroidered to make up for it.
Add an alien feast, nanobot robot cooks, robodogs, The New Weird, and a vast dreamscape that goes from heaven to hell, from arty cafes to cop busts, to licking feathers to get high, to an outright possible reference to Tammuz and Geshtinana with an incestuous bent, and I STILL don't know what to think about this book.It has a clear jazzy style that jumps all over the place easily, filling in backstory in a fun way, but at the same time, there are so many odd references to a world so alien and just like a drug-filled afternoon, that I can't quite say it was comfortable at all.And yet it was very creative.
I loved the virtual meta moments, the way it felt like a mix between Matrix and Strange Days years before those movies were ever made.
A future Manchester UK filled with an assortment of new species of human, a new social structure, and, the central feature of the book, a new drug/game/escape from reality called vurt.
They see things differently, but sometimes act parts out in the real world.
Even if it goes against what you think you're character is, in the end, you help because that's what keeps the game, and my plot, moving forward."Speaking of lacking development, the main love story is dull.
Even though it's central to the story, we no little about her other than that she's the main character's sister, and she's hot.
He turned the feather in his feelers and then stroked it in, direct, to the hole.
I wasn’t sure which feather he’d loaded, but from the way he was moving his feelers I guess he was swimming with the Thermo Fish.”So to be knocked down with a feather just read Vurt.If Alice's Adventures in Wonderland were written in the genre of dystopia and in the cyberpunk style it would’ve become Vurt.The novel is very extravagant and exotic but some serious holes in the plot prevent it from turning into a masterpiece.
Here goes...Vurt is a near future, sort-of-cyberpunk, dystopia where people escape reality by entering - via different colored feathers tickled upon their throats - a shared dream state known as the Vurt.
The story is told through the eyes of Scribble, a member of a gang of Vurt junkies known as the Stash Riders.
Of course, that’s a kudos to Noon, as it perfectly inserts us into the mindset of such a fucked up character, but it makes the reading more work than pleasure.
Well there’s the Vurt, a shared dream state that I couldn’t care less about.
Scribble lost his sister/fuck buddy in the Vurt.
This is such a smart book, but for some reason doesn't have the recognition that it deserves, at least not in literary circles. It speaks intelligently on hybridity, drug culture, game culture, created communities, fantasy spaces, writing as escape...it's just crazy good. I had a prof who called this a "game narrative," one of the first novels to use the conventions of video games as part of its narrative strucure, which is, trust me, extremely cool. I have a big love for this novel, and recommend it heartily.
No idea how to explain it but in simple terms, society or some of society taste these different coloured feathers for different dream responses.
The Vurt is this dreamworld, but separating the real world from this fantasy dream world becomes the difficult part, not only for the characters but also for the reader.
The writing was exquisite for me, and I was lost in my own Vurt whilst reading this.
I havent read anything this original for a very long time.
Would reccomend this to any avid scifi reader, or anyone wanting a challenging thought provoking mind warped rewarding read.
So, 23 year old me gave this 4 stars.
37 year old me gives it 3.
I remember not being able to put this down, but I must have been in a weird book phase at the time.
Also, the disjointed nature of reality vs Vurt is sort of cool, but it caused me to start losing interest at a couple points because I was not sure what was going on.I think a special type of reader would appreciate this book.
What type of reader that is exactly .
I am not sure!
I appreciate the vivid visuals and fast paced action, but could have used some of the drugs the author must have been tripping on to enjoy this book a little more.
Well actually everyone is pretty much like a game avatar with a minor blip of a back story before you go tripping down the rabbit hole.It's a book where you need to just enjoy the visuals and the journey and not worry about anything else like, why and who and motivations, they don't live here.Think like Alice in Wonderland blended with the matrix, throw in some boondock saints action and tons of star trek lense flare while taking place in the movie contact when she's talking to the alien.
I hit the incest part and went NOPE. Plus the whole book is one loooong drug trip or the gang looking for more drugs. And the point is to save some guy's sister (that he's having sex with...) from a virtual drug world. And... no. I'm just so not into it.
Can't stop thinking about those yellow feathers...
Pretty out there, and fairly well-paced, but ultimately a conventional structure, with unsympathetic characters, wrapped in a very unfamiliar future world. Hard to get along with the writing style - too gonzo for me.
"A young boy puts a feather in his mouth..."                        I found this book at random, which, for some reason, makes sense. It just feels right that my first introduction to Jeff Noon would be at completely random, a completely accidental collision with the insane genius behind...well, Jeff Noon books, as Noon lacks a genre he can be pigeonholed into other than maybe, say, science fiction. And since at its core Vurt is about a bizarre, sometimes macabre, often trag
Led by the charismatic, brutish driver named Beetle, the Stash Riders are a group of addicts living on the government-supplied "dripfeed" that allows them a squalid apartment and money enough to buy the hallucinogenic virtual-reality feathers known as "Vurt" that the entire country (or perhaps the entire world) is hooked on.
Scribble, our (highly unreliable) narrator, has lost his sister Desdemona to a weird hybrid feather, a so-called "Knowledge Vurt" known as English Voodoo, and to a yellow feather located inside Voodoo entitled Curious Yellow.
It's been 15 years since I read Vurt the first time and it somehow holds up. The perfect blend of Gibson's cyberpunk and Irvine Welsh's drug fueled grime remixed on Noon's Mancunian turntables. Not for everyone.
This book is even more out there then John Dies at the End. The book is a blend of science fiction, the New Weird, and Cyberpunk.This is not an easy read as I found it difficult to keep tabs at times and by the nature of the story itself things are not always clear.
A snippet that gives a small synopsis of what this drug induced book is about:“Only a chosen few get the Haunting.
The Cat's advice to them; resist the don't know it yet.
The Cat's advice to them; resist the temptation; don't jerk out.
Jerking out is giving in.
This is a very strange book that stands somewhere between cyberpunk and an altered reality novel.
It is the story of his quest to find his sister who got lost inside a Vurt when she was swapped for a strange thing called the Thing, which is a creature created entirely from the Vurt.This book is really good and the writing is really well done and engrossing.
I will definitely be picking up some of Jeff Noon's other books, hopefully they will be as good as this one is.
Noon's novel is so consistently confusing and random it's more like a piece of abstract art with no context.
Since it is extremely dialogue driven, I found it hard to reflect on the visual and conceptual setting, a large part of what makes up a good sci-fi.
Imagine being constantly told what is happening and not where, when or why it is happening.
The characters are constantly stoned and as a result hard to differentiate, there simply isn't enough room for them to do anything constructive or develop as an individual.
Most of the time things just happen without explanation, perhaps a metaphor for a bad trip like what the novel is advocating against.
Review to follow.
First of all let me just say this isn't my usual type of book so it was definitely a different experience for me.
Basically the book is about the protagonist, Scribble, trying to find his sister, who was lost in the Vurt.
I can appreciate the book for what it is and even tho' this was different for me the author kept me intrigued and reading.
I will say that the last 1/3 of the book was the most interesting part of it and I couldn't put it down.
I did like it but I probably won't reach for this type of book again.
This boy took a “Vurt” feather (a drug) that gives him access to an alternative reality.
He discovers Scribble, his gang of feathers addicts (the Stash riders) and a bunch of weird creatures (dog people, mechanicals, shadow girls…).Jeff Noon’s fiction is a “vurt” dream with flashes images, distorted realities.
It is also a dark dream with a lot of blood, violence and even incest.It took me a couple of attempts to finish this novel.
I like Jeff Noon’s creativity but his story doesn't always make sense.
I may be wrong, but I think the author just wants to confuse the reader with this weird story.
Reminds me of William Gibson meets Philip K Dick. I really don't know what to say about this one, but I just read it a second time, and suspect I'll read it once more someday. If it sounds interesting to you, just go for it, I'm sure you'll enjoy itfirst read 2009-DEC, second read 2011-DEC, third read 2014-SEP
Page 121 - Not sure I can be arsed finishing this. I'm not enthused about picking it back up. I find the idea of a drug experience being administered via sticking a feather down your throat to be a bit unlikely. Certainly it seems impractical. The feather would surely get all soggy? It just doesn't sound like something that would happen.
By the time the end arrived I just wanted it to be over.Try to imagine a mix of Inception, Existenz, and The Matrix, written by Cheech and Chong and directed by Tarantino, wrapped in soft porn, and you should have an idea what to expect.At some point the author breaks the fourth wall and tells us that it is a "love story".
This would have worked better as a short story, especially considering the lack of plot and character development.- Characters.
To me, a swear counts as a "tell" because the author can't or won't show the character's emotion.
Totally a quick beach book, but a really fucking cool beach book with interesting ideas, settings, and concepts throughout.
Most of the book was narrated to quickly and simply for the dense interesting world it created.
It was filled in later by Game Cat, but in some cases (as with the races explained somewhere in the last seventy pages) it was much too late, and I did not see why we were not told such things up front; it would have made no artistic difference, it simply would have made the read more clear.
The first time I read it, a million years ago, proly around 1993 'ish when it was first published, I was so struck by its novelty that I kept buying more and more copies and I gave them to fellow partiers at raves.
It's a bit ironic that we gifted copies of Vurt at raves.
Raves were-at that time-social movements that promoted, among other laudable endeavours, personal virtue.
It was perhaps an unintended consequence of the novel to focus the thinking and values of the ravers of the early to mid 90s.Either way, I'm a better person for reading this book.
It was that splendid mix of Bliss and Fetish, dogmusic and crush-dancing; makes you feel like a star in your own system.If Philip K.
It makes for great reading that is surprisingly understandable, as soon as you "got" that the feathers are the drug, and that what happens in the Vurt can be carried over to our reality (like Freddy Krueger's hat in Nightmare on Elm Street, or an entire reality in Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said) you know the basics, the story itself is relatively straightforward that sometimes meanders too much for its own good...
By the end of the book, I was still confused about the Vurt.
You can get lost inside the Vurt, which is basically what this story is about.
Scribble has lost his sister to the Vurt, the sister he sleeps with......
I'm not even sure what is worse, the sister fucking in this book, or the dog fucking?
It seems like everyone just takes drugs, mostly legal to escape this bleak reality.
And I just didn't like any of the characters, they were petty drug taking thieves.
Much as this book has some very vivid world descriptions I didn't warm either to the environment or the characters and overall, nothing much happens.
In William Gibson's cyberpunk, we have real people interfacing with virtual reality, in William Burroughs we have real people taking perception altering drugs, and in Hannu Rajaniem's world of the Quantum Thief we have (I eventually figured out) virtual human entities interacting in entirely artificial world.
But in Vurt I cannot work out whether the feathers are drugs, virtual reality, or somehow some combination of these, and where if at all there is any interface with anything real.
