https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/602473.Atop_an_Underwood
Below are a few highlights, but I won’t include many quotes, partly because the best quotes are the highlights of the book, not necessarily each piece as a whole.“Where the Road Begins”: A vision of an 18 yr old college freshman parting from his family and leaving his hometown for the first time, somewhat sadly, on a train bound for the big city, and then eagerly returning at the end of the first semester, greeted joyously by family and friends.
Instead, he advocates a piece of the good life, less of making money, more shared experience, and the time to enjoy life somewhat care free.
Whenver I read Kerouac, I'm re-inspired to carry around a notebook and write whatever I see. Even early Kerouac speaks to me.
This was a wonderful book that reveals the talent that was abundant from the get go for a young Jack Kerouac who understood his calling to be a writer as an adolescent and never waivered his entire life. These pre- On The Road writings are a treasure for any true kerouac fan.
READ THIS. it's fantastic. there are a few stories that i skipped over because they were not very interesting to me (such as a baseball story) but every short story is so beautifully written, and the ideas he presents will really make you think.
best insight into a legend before the world knew how great he was...
he knew what he was doing all along
This is a pretty varied collection in terms of its quality as it is a post-mortem collection of Kerouac's early writings.
The earliest stuff is the most disposable to me, particularly the sports-related ephemera from his earliest writings where he would create fictitious sports leagues and narratives to go with them.The back half of the book flows more with fragmentary "super short stories" (comprising a page or three) intermixed with poetry and slightly longer fragments, most notably one section that was part of the creative process leading to The Sea is My Brother.I have read the Duluoz Legend as a whole, so for me filling it out with some of these extra writings is worth the time.
This is a ragtag collection of Jack Kerouac's early writings that range from the profound and inspiring to the different (some more fiction-based than you might be used to reading from him or on subjects like food and baseball) to the ehhhh. Essential for any Kerouac fan to chart the beginnings and growth of his writing or aspiring writers to be inspired that so many of his ideas he spoke so passionately about from an early age eventually flowered--giving one hope that with enough zest one can also take their work to the places he did.
A great book. You can watch Kerouac's style grow and mature from page to page. These early works crackle with energy.
6 STARS ...******
It was really interesting to read things that the author had written in his younger years.
My favourites in this collection were the selected excerpts from 'The Sea is My Brother' (which incidentally is not only believed to be Jack's first-ever novel but one which has just been published for the first time last month), a short story on baseball called 'Rookie Nerves' and a short piece he wrote the night before he and his family moved house (called something like ‘Farewell My Trees’).
These fleeting stolent moments of our life are beautiful tableaus, which should be celebrated (through living) and which should be remembered to the full (through writing) and I think that’s what Jack was all about.
Atop An Underwood By Jack Kerouac Edited by Paul Marion "Early Stories and Other Writings" 1936-1943I haven't read any great Kerouac in a very long time indeed, this is by far the best collection of previously unissued writings by Jack that I have come across.Published by penguin I got my copy from City Lights last year.This is a carefully edited collection taken from Paul Marions extensive searching through the large archive of Jacks writings, he apparently kept everything he ever wrote almost!!So you get to see Jack starting to develop as a writer and there are sketches that later became scenes in his books and reports from his own fictional sports league, as well as real reports of games he played in or attended.
If you're contemplating becoming familiar with Kerouac's work, I urge you to pick up a copy of Atop an Underwood.
When I first picked Jack Kerouac's writings off of a Wisconsin library shelf, I turned to two pages.
One more test: I always turn to page 111 when browsing a new novel, book, memoir, what-have-you.
Atop an Underwood remains one of my most beloved works of Kerouac's and I can't tell you how pleased I am that I decided to read his writings chronologically.
Jack Kerouac is a literary icon.
His writings, both of poetry & prose should be read by younger generations.
He has affected me profusely since jack composed On the Road & Dharma Bums.
I consider him a major influence towards my own pursuits in creative writing.
I realise that Kerouac is not beloved as he should be.
Anyhow, I do hope you read these stories.
Jack Kerouac is a true legend.
His prolificness & discipline for churning out endless streams of short stories, novels, & poetry is astounding.
Jack will have a place in my heart.
Just as everyone else has said, the writing in here isn't necessarily stellar, but it provides some pretty fascinating insights into the earliest works of an author whom I consider to be incredibly influential.
However, in addition to the novelty of being able to read works that weren't really meant to be published, written by an adolescent who would eventually go on to be the voice of an era, the writing in here was reminiscent of all writing that kids do around that age.
This was a collection of early Kerouac leading to his meeting Ginsberg and Burroughs and his ultimate "On the Road" fame.
As I have said in other Kerouac reviews, he is one of my all time favorites and I genuinely enjoy learning more about him.
I learned so much from reading this and have found other authors I know want to know better.
In summary, I think this is a realistic view of what you would find out of any author's work: a hodgepodge of good and bad that glint with genius, beauty and eventual greatness.


I'm always suspicious of posthumous works.
Martin edits a collection of very early stories, and creates a marvelous selection of prose, poetry, and commentary.
While reading Atop An Underwood it occurred to me that I was enjoying Kerouac's very early works much more than the examples chosen from a time period closer to his period of fame.
I kept confirming Kerouac's age when a particular piece had been written.
He kept this, of course, in his later writings, but when you add his youth into the work it creates an even greater achievement in my opinion.
LOVED very early writings of Jack Kerouac:"I am the American temperament . . . I am not Socrates wearing a robe, nor Shakespeare in breeches, but I am a poet in trousers . . . and my hair is combed, parted on the left side . . . I play football and baseball, I go out with dames and I love America. That's who I am."
This collection reveals that Kerouac was destined to be the great observer and recorder he became; the seeds of his future obsessions are all on display in these early writings. To gain a clear idea of how Kerouac became the man he was, this is a required read.
It was an enjoyable read, but I think it may be more interesting to devoted fans of Kerouac. I have not read enough of his work to appreciate how his style developed over time. I found only a couple of the pieces to really stand out and the rest just seemed mildly interesting.
An inspiring look into the mind of a young Kerouac. If you're a Kerouac fan then this book should be in your collection.
The passion of youth expressed with a love of literature that only he could have delivered.....
in the Czech language
Much prefer this early stuff to some of the drug stuff. But this collection doesn't really add much. For superfans wanting to complete the collection only.
Fantastic sampling of Kerouac's works from when he started out, and his growth as a writer.
A great collection of early work; lends to an understanding of Kerouac's evolution as a writer.
Sempre per la serie, Kerouac vende, pubblichiamo ogni cosa che ha scritto, compresa la lista della spesa...
