https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34.The_Fellowship_of_the_Ring
Apparently, I didn't even need the Vicodin because that pedophile Tom Bombadil put me right to sleep.Seriously, were it not for the fact that it is written by Tolkien, I would have hated this book.
There were parts, that to a Tolkien amateur like me, didn't have a whit of relevance or anything interesting to add to the plot (namely, say, the first 700 pages of the book).
My beloved World of Warcraft game featured elves, pretty much every fantasy book we have these days have been inspired in one way or another by Tolkien.
I refuse to write a review for one of the best books ever written. Asking a serious fantasy fan to write a review for Lord of the Rings is like asking a Christian to write a review for The Bible. So instead I will supply you with this graph:
No words need be said. (Whoever made this gif should be knighted).
For those who are familiar with the great and influential fantastical authors, from Ovid and Ariosto to Eddison and Dunsany to R.E. Howard and Fritz Leiber, it is clear that, long before Tolkien, fantasy was already a complex, well-established, and even a respected literary genre.Eddison's work contains an invented world, a carefully-constructed (and well-researched) archaic language, a powerful and unearthly queen, and a central character who is conflicted and lost between the forces of nobility and darkness.
So sending of a small party of mighty heroes, and a few untested hobbits, is a back door attempt of destroying the evil that infests middle earth.
“All that is gold does not glitter,Not all those who wander are lost;The old that is strong does not wither,Deep roots are not reached by the frost.From the ashes a fire shall be woken,A light from the shadows shall spring;Renewed shall be blade that was broken,The crownless again shall be king.”He alone has the power to unite the failing world of men.
The elves, the men, the dwarves and Sauron’s creatures of darkness all come with their own developed languages.
As a single lady myself, I also love to put a ring on it. And shoutout to my homegurl Sauron!!! you go girl take over middle earth! Reach for the stars! With that balrog on your side you can do anything!That main dude Frodo tho... reminds me of dat boi Harry... besides what does he need the ring for??Anyways I gotta give it a low rating cuz theres 2 much frodo, not enough orcs
I go by a lot of names: Dark Lord of Mordor, Sorcerer, Red Eye, Dark Power, Lord of Barad-dûr, Ring-maker and Base Master of Treachery (I use that one in my band).
As I watch these movies over and over (I never even finished the books) I was reminded of all my mistakes...Perhaps a ring was not a good choice.
Some buddies have suggested that maybe I shouldn't have tied all of my terrible powers to something as easy to misplace as the One Ring.
I'm supposed to discuss the events of the first book, the Fellowship of the Ring.
From talking to my friends, who were Tolkien enthusiasts ("nerds"), I assumed I wouldn't like the books.
If you feel like Frodo is in mortal danger, and might not accomplish his task, you're probably six years old and having the story read aloud.
For even the very wise cannot see all ends.And I also wouldn't mind going on a little hike through the forest, and maybe hanging out with some elves:Away high in the East swung Remmirath, the Netted Stars, and slowly above the mists red Borgil rose, glowing like a jewel of fire.
494. The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of The Rings, #1), J.R.R. (John Ronald Reuel) TolkienThe Fellowship of the Ring is the first of three volumes of the epic novel The Lord of the Rings by the English author J. R. R. Tolkien. It is followed by The Two Towers and The Return of the King. ارباب حلقه ها - جی.آر.آر. تالکین (نگاه، روزنه، ...) جلد نخست یاران حلقهعنوانها: خداوندگار حلقه ها؛ فرمانروای حلقه ها؛ ارباب حلقه ها؛ سالار انگشتریها؛ نویسنده: جی.آر.آر. تالکین؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه ژونئ س
تالکین؛ مترجم: تبسم آتشین جان؛ تهران، حوض نقره، 1381، در شش جلد؛ عنوان جلد نخست: رهروان حلقه ها؛ شابک: 9649305491؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی -سده 20 معنوان: سالار انگشتریها؛ نویسنده: نویسنده: جی.آر.آر.
تالکین؛ مترجم: ماه منیر فتحی؛ تبریز، فروغ آزادی، 1381، در سه جلد؛ عنوان جلد نخست: دوستی انگشتری؛ جلد دوم: دوتا برج؛ جلد سوم: بازگشت پادشاه؛ شابک دوره: ایکس - 964697130؛ عنوان: فرمانروای حلقه ها؛ نویسنده: نویسنده: جی.آر.آر.
تالکین؛ مترجم: رضا علیزاده؛ تهران، روزنه 1381؛ در سه جلد؛ عنوان دیگر: ارباب حلقه ها؛بخش نخست: یاران حلقه؛ بخش دوم: دو برج؛ بخش سوم: بازگشت شاه؛ چاپ ششم 1391؛ شابک: جلد نخست: 9789643343224؛ عنوان: ارباب حلقه ها؛ نویسنده: نویسنده: جی.آر.آر.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. From the valleys of the Shire to the summit of Amon Hen, The Fellowship of the Ring is an extraordinary adventure of endearing characters defying impossible odds.
The Journey begins!!!  THE EVOLUTION OF A RING’S STORY  Courage is found in unlikely places. What started up as an adventure oriented for children turned into an epic fantasy......THE epic fantasy book, anything else in the genre after this, born here, any other author writing in this field, began here, and even impacted in many other genres and formats.Certainly, in The Hobbit, there are dangers, there is death, so thinking about it as a children’s tale is a much debated issue, but it’s clear
And don’t worry, it’s not a spoiler.As I quoted (in this part of the review) Tolkien, may nothing is evil in the beginning, not even Sauron was evil in his own beginning, but......there is one thing in the Middle-Earth that it was evil since its own beginning......the One Ring!The One Ring was evil in its own beginning.The One Ring was in the hand of Sauron, then it passed to Isildur, a man, but it was soon lost and ended in the hands of Déagol, a hobbit, to fall right away in the possession of Sméagol, another hobbit, having it for so many time that Sméagol lost his own identity turning to be Gollum, scary, nasty, treacherous and dangerous but still a hobbit, then enter Bilbo, yet another hobbit, and finally gets into the picture, Frodo, yes, another hobbit.Do you see the pattern?
Well, in middle school I picked up this sweet read in a box set with the rest of the trilogy and The Hobbit.
Tolkien is great, but can be a bit much for a middle schooler.
Even when I finally did finish it around 2001 (just in time for the movie), it was still a bit of a labor of love.In the end, though - no doubt, 5 stars all the way!
Even if you find some of the parts slow, battle your way through, I guarantee you won't regret it!
Give me a few friends,a stretch of pleasant hills and an ominous wood.Let us romp in the remnants of innocence,free of the fear coursing through the veins of the greater world.Give me the first half dozen chapters of The Fellowship of the Ring and I will gladly make a little heaven on earth out of it.After finishing The Hobbit as a young boy, I needed something else, something a little more mature to meet my growing needs.
(More review to come!)Appendixy type reviews of Fellowship…-related items:Peter Jackson's film version: I waited sooooo long for this.
This book did nothing but put me to sleep and sink me in a slump. Like, I’ve never EVER fallen asleep while reading a book (except for maybe, Catching Fire, but I was dead sick at the time). But the best part? It actually started getting interesting after the 95% mark, and by the end, I was even looking forward to reading the next book. How. The. Heck!! This is all you need to know about the plot  - A ring with exceptional powers, handed over to a young Hobbit as an heirloom. A Dark Lord seeking
The End.In other words, more than half of this book constitutes of walking, wherein Mr. Tolkien utilizes the time to describe every single detail about the surrounding trees, the beauty of day and night sky, the shape of trees, the sharpness of the blades of grass, and the impending doom.
Hobbits are supposedly bigger than dwarves, but like, what’s the deal?
It was easy to fall asleep - after all, who ever listened to history classes?With so many characters to keep up with, I could only get hold of our main ones – Frodo, Bilbo, Gandalf, Sam, Pippin, Aragorn, Merry.
By the end, nothing of significance had happened, except that our characters are ready to walk more.
He was made for the arena, as your Mr. Nixon would say.AC: Bilbo, has fame changed you at all?BB: Anderson, I’d like to think not, but maybe in some small ways.AC: Example.BB: Fair enough, I like to get the top of my feet waxed.
Back in the Shire, forget about it, but around here, it’s just a matter of getting it done and who to do it.AC: The top of you feet waxed?BB: A mild vanity, I assure you, a simple pleasure for me to preen and pleasure.AC: Well deserved, I’m sure.BB: Well, there are the simple ways to be enjoyed.AC: Bilbo, what would you like to convey to our audience before we sign off?BB: Thank you, Anderson.
Many things in his books will seem somewhat cliche nowadays, but that's because they have been used so often since he wrote this book - almost all of them were original when this book was written.That said, Tolkein is not a terribly good writer.
Since he wrote this series, several other fantasy writers have basically stolen the story and rewritten it with higher quality prose.
Terry Brooks Shannara series, for example, is more or less identical in plot and characters, but Brooks is a notably better writer.
4+ out of 5 stars to The Fellowship of the Ring, J.R.R. Tolkien's first novel in the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy, later made into a billion dollar movie franchise. I count myself lucky to have been able to read this book before it became a movie, though I loved the movie, too.  Why This Book  I was 13 years old when I stumbled upon this book while a friend was reading it. He was a major video gamer, fantasy sports leaguer and avid reader of science fiction. Though we were good friends, I had dif
It takes place in Middle Earth, a huge land full of different types of people: Men, Elves, Dwarves, Hobbits, Wizards, Orcs and a whole lot more.
He has epic battles and at the end of this book, he's come upon one of his first major stops to seek protection, but is forced to flee with new best friend, Sam, for Mordor.
Tolkien's created a world where anything can happen, and one where readers have little history to know what's real and not real.The book follows Frodo on his path as the primary character, and you see much through his eyes.
This is at least the 15th time I've read this book and I STILL cannot word my love for everything Tolkien. A day may come when I can actually review my favorite books...
That being said , this book is best as it is .It would be really difficult for me to talk about this book so I'd rather write the review in two categories .
I loved almost every character in the novel .
And Tolkein has set a benchmark in writing great quotes .(not comparing to Shakespeare)Cons⭐ The plot was soooo slow .
Maybe this book was meant to be a slow burn adventure .
Fast paced novels and character driven tight plots have made me lazy .
And thus , I respect the slowness of the book .
It was really fun guys how we bonded together while reading this book .
One does not simply review the LOTR!!Yet here I am, trying to do so.
In the words of Sam-the-wise Gamgee, I can sum up my review.
“Oh, that doesn’t do them justice by a long road.”This was a BR with The one who DNF’d it and The one who didn't like it.
Non believers, I tell you!
I have taken my own sweet time with this book, relishing each of its pages and words and watching the movie as I read the book.
It has been a great time!
“Is it not a strange fate that we should suffer so much fear and d
You step into the Road, and if you don’t keep your feet, there is no knowing where you might be swept off to."Through many a great peril, the four little hobbits reach the land of elves where all of middle earth must decide the fate of the ring in a secret council.
The fellowship is formed that shall accompany and guide the ring bearer.A Man: Boromir of Gondor, Son of Denethor.A Dwarf: Gimli, son of Gloin.A King in exile: Aragorn, son of ArathornAn Elf: Legolas, son of Thranduil.A wizard: Gandalf the GreyFour hobbits: Frodo, Merry, Pippin and of course, Sam!So begins the journey of the fellowship of these nine that holds the future of all those who live in the middle earth.
I have been able to read children's books easily for some time, but books for grown-ups are still challenging.
The vocabulary and grammar are more like adult literature; but the writing is concrete and straightforward as children's literature tends to be, with little of the abstractions, generalisations and complicated narrative structures that characterise adult fiction.
The long years have passed like swift draughts of the sweet mead in lofty halls beyond the West, beneath the blue vaults of Varda wherein the stars tremble in the song of her voice, holy and queenly.
Maybe thou shalt find Valimar.
Farewell!'Varda is the name of that Lady whom the Elves in these lands of exile name Elbereth.
It was making me weary and sleepy reading it.
I should have known this book would have taken me longer to read than expected.
I am very glad I kept going, because the last half of the book was amazing.
The scenery was so beautiful that the imagery I thought up stung my eyes.
I can't even describe a place that is real, let alone imagine a whole tree city.
Even in the first half of the book there was that looming evil presence of the Riders that kept me enticed to know what happened.
He gave us the first deeply developed fantasy world, and character and plot tropes that are still go-tos for fantasy writers.
Yes, as are tropes in other genres.
I know this is blasphemy, but I think that Peter Jackson’s movies did a better job of presenting Tolkien’s story and engaging an audience than Tolkien managed himself.This is my second reading of The Fellowship of the Ring.
A couple of things that the book has over the movie: First, Frodo is so much cooler.
He’s one of the most interesting, mysterious characters in fiction, and I hate that he was cut from the films.
I think Tolkien was just boring.I don't disagree, also, that the Shannara series is essentially the same storyline with a better writer at the helm.My venom towards Tolkien is greater than Opp's perhaps because we read for different reasons.
This sort of writer is often found in sci-fi/fantasy, because the genre is geared to reward the most innovative and plausible inventing of a future or past timescape.If guys like Opp were always doing the commentating I might not hate Tolkien with such a passion, but unfortunately the world is filled with people who don't read sci-fi but who recalled their lit teacher spoke Tolkien's name once and probably said something about how he was the father of modern fantasy, and those people went on to shout Tolkien's name from the rooftops to the extent that a movie even got made out of it.
Review to come when I can recover. I hope that my fellow Frodo, Sam and Aragorn will continue onto Two Towers with me! It's re-read and buddy read as of 1 July with the lovely:Fuzaila/FrodoBhavik/SamFares/MerryRusty Grey/Aragorn/Bill the PonyAnd me, Pippin. Because I'm a ditz. Don't worry Fuzaila, book Frodo is awesome :)I've decided we're all Hobbits since there are four of us. I love the diversity of our read - two African and three Indian readers :DObviously. The best book in the universe deserves as much.
This was long overdue and I am so happy to have finally read the first book.
The constant action, even if it's as repetitive as avoiding a trail and walking through the woods for two days, kept the narration grounded, which was important in painting a picture of how vast middle earth was.I love the movies in their own right, but I think I prefer Frodo in the books over the movies.
This is one of the most read books of all time for a reason though and I'm glad to finally see first hand what that reason is; they are as good as people say they are (or at least the first one is)
Sure, I could work in references to Betty Friedan with only the vaguest notion about who she was, but when you're surrounded with a peer group who thinks the face of feminism is Marlo Thomas, it was easy, except for the one person who was the true intellectual: Colleen.
Colleen represented everything I wasn't: a polite, wise-beyond-her-years semi-adolescent with perfect skin and hair, who sported a near genius-level intellect.
Picture the hair of a young, chubby and half-Japanese Phyllis Diller but without the wigline.But the one thing that stood out most about Colleen was her and her equally intellectually superior friends' obsession with LOTR.
“Not all those who wander are lost.”  I expect that that if anyone thinks or says the word fantasy,  the first thing that comes to mind is  Tolkien  and The Lord of the Rings right along with it. I relish a good fantasy, but after watching and loving the movies, I was reluctant to read the book. Perhaps pure stubbornness on my part, biased by a crooked idea that the book couldn’t be as good. I was so wrong!I loved everything about The Fellowship of the Ring.    J.R.R. Tolkien  's book is not a
I relish a good fantasy, but after watching and loving the movies, I was reluctant to read the book.
It’s a road trip of the hero Frodo Baggins and his out of this world companions: his three Hobbit friends, the wizard Gandalf, Aragorn/Strider, the elf Legolas, the dwarf Gimli and the anguished man Boromir.
As you go along with Frodo and his comrades on their meanderings (that I didn't feel were hurried, but seemed kind of languid!), you live in a make-believe world hearing of its past and worrying about a likely dreadful future.
اولین بار بخش های پراکنده ای از فیلمش را در تلویزیون دیدم: موجوداتی کوتوله ساکن روستایی زیبا، با جادوگری پیر که آتش بازی راه می اندازد، و حلقه ای شیطانی که آرامش دنیای داستان را بر هم می زند، و سواران تاریک، و چشم آتشینی که همواره ناظر است.هر چند هیچ وقت نتوانستم تمام سه گانه را ببینم، ولی همین عناصر به قدری تخیل نوجوانانه ام را تهییج کرد، که همیشه سر در آوردن از ماجرای کامل کوتوله ها و حلقه ی شیطانی، یکی از حسرت هایم باقی ماند.گذشت تا این که در دوره ی دبیرستان، یکی از رفقایم کتاب را می خواند و با هم راجع به آن صحبت می کردیم.
I'm completely blown away..This is the kind of story the word epic seems to have been invented for.
J.R.R Tolkien didn't just make up Middle- Earth,he infused every aspect of it with life.
The great depth of work Tolkien put into producing his creation involved inventing landscapes, languages, beasts and beings that have influenced many other fantasy worlds.
It is undoubtedly a spectacular fantasy tale, one that will continue to live on through the ages.
5 stars out of 5 from me - Tolkien is a genius..
