https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/898839.The_Mark_of_Zorro
Daring, Dashing and Delightful! Originally released as a serialized novel, each chapter reads as a mini-story thus producing a loosely connected full novel. Zorro, aka Don Diego, wages war single-handedly against the corrupted and aids the downtrodden. The comical back and forth between the personas as he manipulates the rich men of California lightened and brought life to the novel.He is  passionate  towards the fight and towards the love of his life. And I was swept into this story by his rig
Originally released as a serialized novel, each chapter reads as a mini-story thus producing a loosely connected full novel.
Zorro, aka Don Diego, wages war single-handedly against the corrupted and aids the downtrodden.
The comical back and forth between the personas as he manipulates the rich men of California lightened and brought life to the novel.He is 
And I was swept into this story by his righteousness beliefs and the ardent desire to set things life really motivated the story.
There's no way Zorro could so easily fool everyone.
4.5 StarsBuddy reading with  Grand Duke Craig  and  Grand Duchess Orient  :D Zorro the Mexican Robin Hood, the terror to the the ruling government, the Curse of Capistrano, a gentleman, a shadow, and chivalrous. How couldn't I fall for a man who stands up for the injustice of the people, and takes down the corrupted? I have loved Zorro since watching the the 1998 film  The Mask of Zorro.  He is the shadowy figure in the night, taking names, and whooping ass with his rapier.   The Mark of Zorro
The Mark of Zorro  is the original work that I feel like a lot of people stumble on.
Thank you Amazon, because I really enjoyed this fast paced, actioned packed, adventure story of Zorro.
Buddy reading with Craig and Orient made it a billion times better, since we are all big fans of Zorro.
I know he takes justice into his own hands as Zorro, but couldn't he have done more as the gentleman Don Diego.
The Curse of Capistrano  and  The Mark of Zorro  are the same books.
The Curse of Capistrano  was renamed  The Mark of Zorro  after the film was released.
Banderas… *drools* To my shame, I didn’t pay great attention to Don Diego back then and decided to correct this mistake by reading this book.
It’s a thin mystery and quite evident that Don Diego is a pretender as his dullness feels a bit forced, but the credulity of those who surround him, how they see only what they want to see, that was interesting and funny to observe.
And of course, I was a bit annoyed by a really long wooing between Don Diego and his love interest.
I guess it’s the excitement I got watching the movies about Zorro.
If you are old enough, like me, to remember the late 50's Zorro series by Disney, then this is a must read for you. It's full of the swashbuckling adventure and romance that you would expect of the Old California era. The sly fox, Zorro, has the soldiers of Los Angeles running in circles as he dashes about the countryside using two identities protecting the oppressed and persecuted. A fun read.
But while most caballeros are excessively eager to resort to their swords to defend their honour Don Diego is a languid and rather effete young man who prefers to read poetry.
Being a man of peace and something of a wimp it’s handy to have a friend who is both a tough guy and an important member of the local troop of soldiers.The true identity of Zorro is not revealed until the end of the book but anyone who has ever seen any Zorro movie, comic book or TV episode already knows who he is and it really is blindingly obvious.
An old-time Spanish adventure, set in old California.
A mysterious caballero is riding and plundering in true Robin-Hood fashion, punishing the state-sanctioned plunderers and greedy soldiers, setting by the heels all the boasters who pretend that they are easily able to catch him.
Of course he runs into more trouble when he falls in love with a fair lady whose father is out of favor with the current governor and who soon draws the eye also of his rival, the unscrupulous boaster Captain Ramon.I figured out pretty quickly who Zorro was, but it sure was a fun tale to read through.Free copies can be found at archive.org and Librivox.Content: A bit of fighting and a whippingLanguage: "by the saints" frequently; d* twice
This isn't a bad book. There just aren't any surprises if you know Zorro's true identity before you go in.
While many people have stolen from the Scarlet Pimpernel over the years, such as batman, there are different levels of theft.
This story falls into the latter category plagiarizing at least one major element from  The League of the Scarlet Pimpernel right down to a particular name, now more associated with superheroes (view spoiler)[the Avengers (hide spoiler)].
Their is one spot of originality (unless its stolen from something i havn't read, which is quite possible ;) ), which is the love story.
Perhaps more acceptable if you don't read a lot..
or watch much film..
Being very familiar with the character as presented in TV and film, I found a few things surprising as I read his first adventure The Mark of Zorro.
Based on the characters in the story and the way things played out, I suspect it still would've been fairly easy to guess at his identity, but I suspect it would have made the experience a bit different.Another difference that I found interesting was the stark similarities to another literary hero with a secret identity…The Scarlet Pimpernel.
"Out of the night when the moon is bright comes the horsemen known as Zorro"As a kid I loved Zorro watching it past my bedtime one the Disney Channel.
And the 1998 film maizoro mainstream for the first time since the 50s.Never once did I know that the masked horseman originated from a pulp magazine.
While the book follows a bunch of tropes of that time period Gallant gentleman Damsel in Distress corrupt Authority officials ect.
Its a pretty simple story, and there's nothing wrong with that.
Sometimes simple is better especially when it comes to older books.
The Kindle edition was not so great. It wasn't the worst Kindle story I've read, but there were enough issues to throw me off once in a while. (numbers in place of letters, "die" instead of "the", etc.)A goodreads friend rated this as fun and entertaining and I needed that after finishing a true crime book. So I picked it up and was not disappointed.
Don Diego sticks with his character better than in the TV show and Garcia is hysterical, but I still didn't really enjoy the book as much as the show. The story mainly surrounds the romance of Zorro and a certain Senorita. I think there were a few swear words as well.
I am frustrated because I do not know enough (yet) to decide whether this is a great or terrible book.
The author is either a genius or an imbecile and the story is either a cultural prototype or painfully derivative.
I just don't know.Is the stilted language an insightful imitation of a badly translated story or merely bad?
How much comes from earlier sources (it feels like Robin Hood to me...)This is why I read, because each new book is not only enjoyable in and of itself but adds layers of context and history that allow me to reevaluate what I already have read, while simultaneously suggesting avenues of exploration I have never considered before.
Meal mush and goat's milk! That's it, I'm off to watch the movie. I adored this. Zorro was a champion, always brilliant(and maybe almost too perfect) but so easy to root for. This was a lively, adventurous, surprisingly romantic tale, and overall, very simplistic in its telling. I'd highly recommend this one in any case, but especially if you're trying to get into the classics. This would be a great start!FYI: It is so much to read this book aloud. And I'm not in the habit of doing that.
This ridiculous nonsense is one of my truest and greatest delights. Everyone is so wildly over the top all the time, Zorro most of all. The extent to which Zorro comes into a room and then leaves, then Don Diego comes into a room and then leaves, and then Zorro comes into a room and then leaves, etc. nears Bugs Bunny levels of pageantry. Diego de la Vega must be counted among the greatest and most embarrassing dramatic morons of any age.
Basically, everything in it screamed either 'young adult', or 'silly adventure for casual pulp readers'.Thus, I was led to believe that I stumbled across abridged version for kids and left it as that.Imagine my excitement when I found this free eBook on GoodReads!
I downloaded it at once and started reading, anxious to get to know what the original looked like...Well, I had read the original.
This book has almost no value for anyone looking for serious, realistic, complex story and fleshed out characters.
It's a nice read once you know what to not expect.(Though I still miss some realistic approach to Zorro story...
Robin Hood meets The Scarlet Pimpernel in this tale of Spanish dominated California.
While the government has grown more and more oppressive a hero has been training himself to right wrongs.
Now Zorro rides the countryside, stealing from soldiers what they have stolen from the people and punishing those who have dealt unjust punishment.
It is this man who captures Lolita Pulido.
Can Zorro bring justice to the southland without loosing his life or that of the girl he loves?This tale is told in the classic manner of the period it was written during.
I LOVE this story! Take The Scarlet Pimpernel and add healthy heaping of Spanish flavor and voila! The Mark of Zorro. I can see myself listening to this again in a few years. Even though it was predictable, it was fun and entertaining.More reviews on  My Blog.
This was just okay for me. I thought I loved Zorro, but maybe it's Antonio Banderas and Anthony Hopkins that I love. I don't know. This book just rubbed me the wrong way. I found the character of Zorro annoying. He came across as a guys perfect fantasy. I did like some of the action scenes and I did enjoy some of the humor....maybe I'll give it 3 stars instead of 2.
I finally read one of the early Zorro books. Generally, those old adventure classics are pretty great (The Prisoner of Zenda is fantastic, as is Captain Blood). Anyway, The Mark of Zorro was great! While it was one of those books where the hero never even gets wounded, still it was a fun romp. I definitely recommend it to classic adventure fans.
Also, Zorro is fighting against the mistreatment of the natives, and I guess he does to a point, though the woman he loves spouts some pretty cringeworthy racist declarations throughout the book.
Ay yi yi....Señorita Lolita Pulido falls in love with Zorro after maybe a total of ten minutes of interaction, and takes it pretty lightly in the end when she finds out she's been courted by both Don Diego and el Zorro, the same man, in different guises.
There was so much opportunity for psychological examination on both sides, but again this is pulp fiction written by a man in 1920, so what was I expecting?
Meanwhile, his alter ego, Diego de la Vega, is attempting to court Lolita Pulido, who falls in love with Zorro.The story is very much a product of its time.
(It is to the character's credit that he trusts the woman to know her mind, and graciously accepts her refusal.) The story is an adventure, and it's about guy things, so women are relegated to wives and daughters and damsels, though Lolita gets to show off some skill with riding and swordfighting.The performance I listened to has the story narrated by the tavern barkeep, which saves the characters the awkward task of narrating their actions for the listeners' benefit.
As you'd expect for a work of its time, it suffers from some sexism and racism, and (weird in a story where the hero defends the downtrodden) classism.
Maybe that's another "product of the times" problem and the idea that heroes should struggle a little and have at least some minor setbacks is a newer idea.
Oh, sure, it's basically a mashup of Robin Hood and The Scarlet Pimpernel, but that doesn't mean it's not a good idea.
I just like my heroes to have to put in a little more effort and not be so clearly a million times better than the villains.
The real epiphany in reading this tale is the realization of how marvelous was the writing and the subsequent screenplay for the 1940 film version, its later remakes, and the children's television series that followed.
How this character was so enhanced, his iconic image immortalized, and the swashbuckling exploits that would next be told, makes this story only a tame forerunner for the later first class adventures that would follow.Read The Curse of Capistrano with that context in mind.
An excellent page-turner of an adventure story, though the audio version alters a few things from the original version of The Curse of Capistrano. The most notable alteration, and the only reason I gave this particular version 4 stars instead of 5, is that it entirely skips the dénouement, a.k.a. the last couple pages of the written version. Audio listeners thus miss out on Zorro's reveal, which entirely changes the end of the story. It's a shame, really, because this is otherwise a gloriously fun recording.
Fantastic book. Not the Zorro you know from TV And movies. Very recommended
The gist of the tale is that Zorro is a bandit that keeps disrupting the corrupt politicians of 19th century Spanish led California.
The authorities are too inept to find him which leads to humor early in the story and later suspense.
And despite the fact that the story is derivative of Robin Hood, and I have seen enough Zorro movies to know the central mystery, I enjoyed it the whole way through.
McCulley didn't know what a hit he had because the story ends in such a way that a sequel would be difficult and yet he somehow produced more than one after the success of this.
4.5 stars. Because this is why 👏 we 👏 love 👏 masked 👏 vigilantes. The humor and wit. The athleticism. The mysterious hero. A woman who isn't afraid to speak her mind. I can see where the inspiration from "The Scarlet Pimpernel" came from but it didn't feel like a rehash to me. Overall, I just loved listening to this.
Adios, caballero. A book of multiple personalities and one Lolita (no, not that Lolita). A fun, light read.
Immense fun, highly recommended for those craving a good pulp fiction read! Also recommended for fans of Batman, of course.
