https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1192530.Cass_Timberlane
This is one of Sinclair Lewis's lesser known works. Published in 1945, it was made into a movie in 1947 starring Spencer Tracy and Lana Turner. I found a first edition copy on my grandmothers bookshelf and decided to read it. It was quite good with themes of marriage, love, betrayal, and community. Excellent writing as you would expect from Lewis.
This may be Sinclair Lewis's most forgiving book. It's a meditation on marriage, with Judge Cass Timberlane's passion for and pursuit of Jinny as its centerpiece. Along with their courtship and marriage, Lewis presents mini-portraits of other couples in the community: some delightful, others wildly dysfunctional and destructive.I came across this novel during a recent big cleanout and decided to give it a go. It was most readable, most intriguing. I really enjoyed it.
This book was written late in the career of Sinclair lewis.He had fun with it ,but it was not without serious undertones or piercing social commentary.
This book can be read casually and enjoyed or read carefully and slowly which then creates an experience that transcends mere entertainment and leaves one musing about the characters and their times and ours too......
I began the book with high hopes having enjoyed so many Sinclair Lewis books before, by page 20 I just wasn't enjoying the story but it often takes me awhile to get into a story so I kept going.
Now you would think from reading the book that Cass is one of the oldest people in the town even though we are told on the first page that he was a young judge, age forty-one, in his first year on the bench.
While it is true that Jinny is 24 years old and Cass is 41, the difference in their ages doesn't seem so shocking to me.
Read the book and let me know what you think of it.
Center to most of Lewis' writing is the institution of marriage. Unlike the concept of marriage that may have been enforced upon us through our younger years, Lewis is unafraid to discuss the complexities of life with one another. These complexities are not simply displayed through the various interactions between the lead character, Cass, and female counterparts, but also through vignettes of Midwestern marriages. Unlike his earlier novels, this work ends on more of a hopeful note; perhaps this is a result of gained wisdom or longing for art to reflect life (or was it the other way around...).
Sinclair Lewis is to fiction writing what Cole Porter is to popular music: smart, adept and witty.
He created a character who I suspect lots of ordinary yet above-average, strong yet vulnerable, in-control yet sensitive men will relate to, though never admit.
That is, many of us can relate to the story until the Hollywood ending that contradicts the point of the story.
It's almost as if Mr. Lewis envisioned his book being made into a movie starring Spencer Tracy and Lana Turner.
Doesn't get more Hollywood than that.
Since I've already seen the movie (a LONG time ago), I pictured Spencer Tracy as Cass Timberlane, and Lana Turner as Jinny Marshland, even though neither one of them matched the descriptions in the book! The story was fast-paced, well-written and often amusing, as well as tragic. The interspersed descriptions of the myriad marriages, good and bad, in Grand Republic added to this interesting look at love and marriage in the 1940's. And I loved Cleo the cat!
I read this many years ago, high school I think, because it was not on my written list of books I've kept since high school. I ran across it again so wanted to add it to my list. I think I did like it somewhat, but it was so long ago that I can't remember too much. I read it because I had seen the old movie made from it starring Spencer Tracy, who is one of my favorite actors.
Cass walks home through the streets of the fictional Grand Republic, Minnesota - remember: it was the age of walking home from work, i.e. saving the essential materials for the Effort - and (for the moment) writes off this lovely genie, this sudden Jinny, as "probably a dancer to phonograph records."And then there is this great, great scene with a stray cat, a "little black clown", that crosses his path and, well, he takes her home.
That's how I discovered Dodsworth, which is one of my favorites.
Going very slowly through the book because I have a lot going on now but I really like it.
I love how every generation thinks they are the only ones who have problems in relationships but Mr. Lewis nails it with his descriptions of the right honorable Judge (and former Congressman) acting like a silly school boy over the lovely and much younger Jinny.Well, I'm halfway through and I think I've had enough.
I'll still cherish Dodsworth, but I have other things to read now.
Lewis demonstrates the adage that the more things change, the more they stay the same.
While some of the events date the story to the World War II era, the issues of love, equality, and greed are as fresh as if just penned.
Jinny's near-catastrophic love affair and east coast romp identify Lewis as a realist, the resurrected marriage makes him a romanticist, and his satire of American excess reminds me of the mildly Socialistic viewpoint of Babbit.
The importance he gives to place predates the emphasis Wendell Berry has given to the same subject, a critique of the imperialist ideal of explore and conquer, which was clearly a part of the global consciousness at the time.
A sometimes gentle, sometimes skewering look at the personal lives of the inhabitants of a smallish Minnesota town in the 1940s. The book centers around Cass Timberlane, the local Judge, and his friends and colleagues.The book does a great job capturing shifting friendships and petty slights as well as crushing emotional letdowns. At the heart of the book is Cass Timberlane's relationship with Jinny Marshland, who is much younger, more spontaneous, and more mercurial than the level-headed and rational judge. You'll have to read the book to find out whether things work out or not!
This was not on the current ABA list of books, but some thought it should be. A good novel, but nothing to do with the law except that Cass is a state district court judge and is attracted to a witness.
An almost certainly more progressive novel at the time than it appears in retrospect. Lewis really didn't have a very good opinion of marriage, did he? From a modern point of view, the heroine is irritatingly vapid and the hero is a jerk. For goodness' sakes people, get a life.
Sometimes surprisingly insightful, other times just sort of a romance.
Without Sinclair Lewis, there would be no Jonathan Franzen. Not one of Lewis's better books, but nobody does snarky social criticism better.
One of the best books I ever read. Relationship issues have not changed. Think of a relationship. It is covered in this book. The characters are real.
The first Lewis I read. He was the only writer to me who mattered for a while.
Sinclair Lewis has to make a satire out of every human being. The book would be better if you knew he did not secretly scoff at his characters.
Fiction
Currently reading now!
Reading this was like chewing on a tasty yet somewhat overcooked 1940s roast mutton. Loved the 40s lifestyle and lingo "And how!" but didn't really empathize with stolid priggish Judge Timberlane until the end, maybe because his young bride, Jinny, never came alive for me. I have a feeling Lewis wasn't too comfortable writing about women. Looking forward to exploring this theory in more of his novels.
I love Sinclair Lewis books, but this one took me awhile to get into. Still highly recommend, but I felt it dragged through the middle, the last 1/3 is great.
