https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69970.The_Vice_Consul
410. Le Vice-Consul = The Vice-Consul, Marguerite DurasSuspended and awaiting his next assignment, the French Vice-Consul at Lahore falls hopelessly in love with the French ambassador's wifeعنوان: نایب کنسول؛ اثر: مارگاریت دوراس (نیلوفر) ادبیات فرانسهعنوان: نایب کنسول؛ اثر: مارگاریت دوراس؛ مترجم: قاسم روبین؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1377؛ در 195 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1378؛ شابک: 964448070؛ چاپ دیگر 1379؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، اختران، 1396، در 172 ص؛ شابک: 9789642071074؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسه - سده 20 منقل از
Le Vice-Consul = The Vice-Consul, Marguerite DurasSuspended and awaiting his next assignment, the French Vice-Consul at Lahore falls hopelessly in love with the French ambassador's wifeعنوان: نایب کنسول؛ اثر: مارگاریت دوراس (نیلوفر) ادبیات فرانسهعنوان: نایب کنسول؛ اثر: مارگاریت دوراس؛ مترجم: قاسم روبین؛ تهران، نیلوفر، 1377؛ در 195 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1378؛ شابک: 964448070؛ چاپ دیگر 1379؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، اختران، 1396، در 172 ص؛ شابک: 9789642071074؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان فرانسه - سده 20 منقل از متن: مسیر جلگه ی پرندگان را کس نمیداند، راه میرود دختر.
همه ی رودها را میبیند، دسته ای موی پریشان انگار، بر سری چرخیده به سمت جنوب.
I feel like I was dancing around really getting into Duras' novels until the sudden sequence this year of The Ravishing of Lol Stein and now this one, which are both perfect (and not so incidentally interlinked), and with India Song (book or film) as well, which forms a more cryptic reduction/echo of this.
As with the best Duras, this is driven by a submerged intensity and desperation right to the edge of madness and apocalypse.
A kind of madness and apocalypse has actually occurred off the pages, to be circled and reinterpreted endlessly via second-hand account.
Less ambiguous (though not by much) than her mega hit "The Lover", "The Vice-Consul" evokes more sympathy.
It reminded me in its plot of Europeans-in-another-place of Hemingway's "The Sun Also Rises"; its emblematic drifter woman motif resembles one of Coetzee's creations.
But I cannot deny that the continuous and rapid jumps into the future, as well as the intermingling of present-tense and past-tense are a huge distraction, and, dare I say, highly unromantic.
The Vice Consul of France in Lahore is an otherworldly creature of the most rueful pathetique.
Guess in France this POV, of mad women & men in Calcutta, is indispensable.
It's still a 2 1/2, rounded up to 3 stars because Goodreads STILL doesn't seem to be capable of working out how to get the half stars things going.
He doesn't know a thing about her and doesn't bother trying to learn he just invents this whole story and that 'fake' story is cut into the 'real' story lines of the other characters.
But those story lines are also possibly not strictly 'real'.
It's possible as it seems that she had 'something going on' with a whole lot of attractive young men with what seemed to be the full knowledge and consent of her husband.
The French eh?And what was the exact point of this story?
Cuando empecé a leerla me sorprendió lo clara que era esta novela en comparación con Moderato Cantabile, otra obra de Duras, que por momentos es difícil de seguir porque los diálogos imitan perfectamente la espontaneidad caótica e inconexa del habla oral.
Cuando creés entender cuáles fueron los hechos de la narración o cuál es el foco del libro, vuelven a eludirte.Un par de cosas que captaron mi atención:-Recuerdo haber leído en una entrevista a Duras cómo en sus novelas generalmente las mujeres tomaban un papel activo y los hombres uno pasivo.
The French Vice-Consul, Jean-Marc de H., is a tortured man.
The novel centers on a circle of ex-pats surrounding the Ambassador and his wife Anne-Marie Stretter, an enigmatic woman who draws men to her like iron filings to a magnet, while operating in a personal realm quite separate from that of her husband's.
Woven in are sections of a novel being penned by the journalist Peter Morgan, a member of the ex-pat circle.
The fictional text follows the fate of a young Cambodian woman whom Morgan has based on a beggar-woman frequenting the Embassy grounds in the company of a group of lepers.
خواندن دوراس شبیه خوابگردی است و در مواجه با آنچه میگذرد باید آنچنان دقیق باشی که از خلال تصاویر و حسهای گذرنده چیزی ورای اداراکات غریزی بیرون بکشی. اعتراف میکنم "نایب کنسول" برای من نامفهومتر و گیجکنندهتر از "عاشق" و "شیدایی لل و اشتاین" بود. هنوز ذهنم خبط و ربط آدمها و مکانهای این داستان را پیدا نکرده، فقط در پایان کتاب یک جور حس سرگشتگی و غربت دارم، مشابه حس آن ماری اشترتر: «اشک میریزم، بیآن که بتوانم علتش را برایتان بگویم، مثل دردی که وجودم را درنوردد، اشک باید بریزد کسی. منم که انگار باید ب
خواندن‌ دوراس شبیه خوابگردی است و در مواجه با آنچه می‌گذرد باید آنچنان دقیق باشی که از خلال تصاویر و حس‌های گذرنده چیزی ورای اداراکات غریزی بیرون بکشی. اعتراف می‌کنم "نایب کنسول" برای من نامفهوم‌تر و گیج‌کننده‌تر از "عاشق" و "شیدایی لل و اشتاین" بود. هنوز ذهنم خبط و ربط آدم‌ها و مکان‌های این داستان را پیدا نکرده، فقط در پایان کتاب یک جور حس سرگشتگی و غربت دارم، مشابه حس آن ماری اشترتر: «اشک می‌ریزم، بی‌آن که بتوانم علتش را برایتان بگویم، مثل دردی که وجودم را درنوردد، اشک باید بریزد کسی. منم که انگار باید بگریم.»
Abandoned 2/3 in. I really disliked the writing here, especially the beginning chapters which used the annoyingly post-modern staccato, pared down prose. You know. To gain impact. Hard.The remaining chapters I read were a swirling dance of non-understanding. Both me and the characters themselves. Enigmatic, yes. Interesting or enjoyable, sadly not.The jolts in tense were the only real interest here, but they were overused, I thought. As for the 'people were saying' inserts, well, I cringed everytime. Shame, a real shame.
کمی گیج کنندهگاهی شخصیت ها رو قاطی می کردمفضای کلی داستان به سختی در ذهنم شکل گرفتپراکنده گویی کمی درک قلم نویسنده رو سخت می کرددر کل کتاب "نو" یی بودتا حالا با این تکنیک، کتابی نخونده بودم
Jag känner på samma sätt inför den här boken som Picasso gjorde inför grottmålningarna i Lascaux: hon har uppfunnit allt.
Usually I do not comment books below 4 stars, but Le Vice-Consul might be an exception. Why? Simply because it is a book stuck in my mind as one which offers many letters and many words and not so much excitement. I remember I fought this little book in weeks if not month. Still, somehow I am happy I could add it to me read list since it was so different.
Reminiscent of Graham Greene's urgency and William Faulkner's southern mystique.
Or perhaps Greene's foreign mystique and Faulkner's urgency.
It's not a Southern Gothic novel, of course, but it's one of imperial knowledge and living.
These types of novels that take place in colonized areas always lend themselves to characters deplete of moral blessings, but full of rare complexities.
I really liked this book, but only recommend it to more patient readers familiar with this type of setting and storytelling.
Toni Morrison recommends reading it slowly and carefully once, then reading it again.
I might go ahead and recommend this to anyone in a depressive mode of being.
للأسف أعتقد بأن مارغريت دوراس لم توفق بالترجمة العربية. بعد قراءة "أن تكتب" والذي كان آخر ما كتبت، وناقشت فيه رؤيتها لفعل الكتابة، أحسست بأن ترجمته لم تكن بالمستوى المطلوب. الرواية هنا كانت بتوصية الكاتبة نفسها في كتابها السابق، ولكن المشكلة أن الترجمة لا تزال تتفكك وتتعثر رغم اختلاف دار النشر والمترجم. قرأت ثلث الرواية ولا أنوي إكمالها.
چگونه مي شود بازنگشت؟بايد خود را گم و گور كرد....ناپديد شد....فراموش كرد...فراموش شد...در پي راه چاره اي هستم كه خودم را گم و گور كنمخالي از تمامي انديشه هاخالي از ذهن...همه چيز را پشت سر گذاشتنو بسوي دورترين نقطه ي افق گام برداشتن..........و رفتنو هرگز بازنگشتن......ناپديد شدن....ناپديد شدن براي هميشه.....هميشه
The vice consul of Lahore is sent to Calcutta after committing some act which at first is only alluded to. Added to this is a beautiful woman, the French ambassador's wife. The final main character is a young beggar, kicked out of her home for being pregnant. There is a connection though they appear tenuous at times.
aslan nemitoonam ba karaye duras kenar biam.hatta vaghti tarjomeye farsish ro ham mikhoonam ,engar france khoondam,chon ye kalamam france balad nistam.parle vo france?!(inam midoonam avazi neveshtam)
Mon Dieu! Je ne comprends pas pourquoi chaque livre pour le collège est un total alésage. Trop lent et je n'ai jamais vraiment réussi à me laisser emporter par le récit.
Un roman orientaliste par excellenceEdward Said wrote "Orientalism", in which he criticized the West and Western scholars, novelists, and artists for creating images and discourses about the "East" (in his case mostly the Middle East) which then allowed the West to feel that they knew the peoples and cultures of much of the world, and further, that this supposedly-accurate knowledge allowed them to control that part of the world.
As an anthropologist who has worked in India and lived in many Asian countries, I found Duras' novel extremely offensive, though I admit her style of writing is intriguing.
I have always been interested in the French-Asian connection, and therefore, enjoyed Marguerite Duras’s works such as Hiroshima, Mon Amour,” and  “The Lover .
Now, Duras has plucked one character from Lol Stein, Anne-Marie Stretter, who is known for her affairs with other men, and placed her in India as the French Ambassador’s wife.
The Asian connection is back, but the novel is short on plot.
Duras does offer a cryptic psychological look at human behavior as portraits unfold of privileged French diplomats in Calcutta who contrast with those of the street people— dying lepers and beggars, i.
Duras'ın deneysel romancılığının bir ürünü daha.
Marguerite Duras'ın bu kitabında iki hikaye var.
İlkinde, hamile kaldığı için annesi tarafından evinden atılan Vietnamlı bir köylü kızın köyünden Hindistan kalküta'ya gidişi ve orada şarkı söyleyen deli bir dilenciye evrilmesi.
Konsolos yardımcısı Lahor'da Shalimar bahçelerinde yaşayan cüzzamlılara ve köpeklere ayrım gözetmeden ateş ettiği için Fransız diplomatlarının dosya hazırlayıp ne yapabileceklerini düşündüğü bir skandalın kahramanıdır.
Hiç aşık olmadığını ve bakir olduğunu söyleyen konsolos yardımcısı, Büyükelçi'nin gizemli ve birçok başka erkekler ilişkisi olan Anne-Marie Stretter’e tutulur.
Konsolos yardımcısının Lahor'da sağa sola ateş açmasıyla ilgili skandal anlatılırken, insanlığın karşılaştığı yıkım, hastalık ve yoksulluk sorgulanır.
J'aime ce genre d'œuvres où les lieux de confondent ; où les souvenirs, la fiction et le réel se superposent. Mais Duras pousse vraiment cela à l'extrême, il n'y pas a proprement parler de récit, mais beaucoup de divagations (beaucoup beaucoup) bien qu'elles ne soient pas inutiles. Je reconnais qu'elles ont permis de dresser les portraits des personnages principaux, et de développer leur symbolique. Je cherchais une logique, mais peut-être que la logique est qu'il n'y en a pas ? À relire pour mieux apprécier.
"criss-crossed by causeways"
Even much modern poetry seems to fear the mystery- all must be revealed and explained; what if the reader does not immediately understand?Marguerite Duras' great genius is her lack of concern for our understanding- instead we get the beautiful, evocative and magnificently created world of her understanding.
There is much not explained in this novel, thankfully, for it is the mystery that sent chills up my arms as I read passages that swept me away to another place, another sensibility, another life.
Duras is one of the greatest writers I've read but not really canon in the UK / West.
Like all great C20th writers, she was looking to embrace the self consciousness of narratives as well as traditions of epics and contemporary relevance and she succeeded.
A deep read of this is more haunting, emotional and gutwrenching than works on similar topics today because of the overriding bourgeois mainstream feel of most literature and narrative work in general as the rich West looks to educate, be forgiven and be redeemed simultaneously.
بسیاری از آثار مارگریت دوراس به همت قاسم رویین به فارسی برگردانده شده.
"تابستان 80"، "بحر مکتوب"، "درد"، "نایب کنسول"، "نوشتن"، "همین و تمام"، "باغ گذر"، "باران تابستان"، "عاشق" و البته یکی از شاهکارهایش "مدراتو کانتابیله" توسط رضا سیدحسینی ترجمه شده و "می گوید؛ ویران کن" را خانم فریده زندیه به فارسی برگردانده است.
تا آنجا که یادم هست، "هیروشیما، عشق من" نیز سال ها پیش و احتمالن توسط "هوشنگ طاهری" به فارسی ترجمه شده.
کتابی که دیگر هیچ خطی از آن به یادم نمانده با این نام، صحنه های فیلم "آلن رنه" با بازی "امانوئل ورا" در خاطرم زنده می شود، فیلمی که در 1959 بر مبنای این رمان کوتاه دوراس، ساخته شده است.
A chi non piacciono le storie sospese, non ben definite, che evocano più che districare la trama, sconsiglio questo libro.
Ho letto molti dei libri della Duras e questo alla fine non è nemmeno tra i più "enigmatici".
In questo caso è la Calcutta dei privilegiati ambasciatori europei.
**SPOILER** la prima parte del romanzo si snoda invece nella parte misera dell'Indocina.
Questa prima storia verrà poi abbandonata nella narrazione e riapparirà solo suggerita come filo conduttore con la vicenda del viceconsole.
The second book in Marguerite Duras’s India cycle, The Vice-Consul finds the landscape switching to Calcutta and the focus shifting to Anne-Marie Stretter, a woman who many will remember as the sexy cougar who stole Michael Richardson’s heart in The Ravishing of Lol Stein. In this land of inescapable heat, Stretter finds herself surrounded on all sides by an incredibly damaged cast of characters that include her French Ambassador husband, Richardson (his last name inexplicably shortened here to Richards) the disgraced Vice-Consul of Lahore, and an insane Cambodian beggar woman who lives among a homeless colony of lepers.READ MORE:http://www.typographicalera.com/the-v...
I read Duras' 'The Lover' three times (for three different classes, not because I wanted to). The first two times were torture; the third...I don't know what was different but something clicked and I discovered the beauty of the story and the writing. It's now one of my favorite books. Maybe I need to read 'The Vice-Council' twice more.
Unusual and captivating. I can't say I really like it, and yet it's so strange. Perhaps I should say, I'm giving it four stars because it surprised me. Not many authors write like this, in prose or in content. This will cross my mind again, I'm sure.
I really enjoyed The Lover and was looking forward to reading this book. Unfortunately, it turned out to be very disappointing.
