https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2241558.The_Other_Queen
This book took me quite some time to get through.
I have read Philippa Gregory's other books, and though they are not always factually correct, and most often read like gossip mags, I have come to enjoy them and expect that of her books.
This was so long and drawn out, and not at all enjoyable.
It is written from the viewpoint of Mary Queen of Scots and her two jailers, but you are never engaged with any of the three main characters.
Gregory simply twists and repeats the same sentiments for each chapter.
It was like walking through mud.
This review is for the audiobook version of “The Other Queen” by Philippa Gregory, published by Recorded Books, and narrated by Stina Nielsen, Jenny Sterlin and Ron Keith.  Audio: 5 stars  The narration for this novel is a full-fledged five stars. The story is told from three viewpoints  (Bess, Mary and George)  and each character gets its own distinctive and independent voice. I give bonus points when audio books do this, as they can be hard to follow with only one narrator (not to mention th
The story is told from three viewpoints  (Bess, Mary and George)  and each character gets its own distinctive and independent voice.
This, obviously, does not sit well with her cousin, Queen Elizabeth, who exiles Mary to northern England, to live with newlywed couple (and loyal English subjects), Bess Hardwicke and George Shrewsbury.
The three main players of this novel, George, Mary and Bess, drew me in and kept me engaged, but the other (multitudinous)  royals and nobleman (beyond Elizabeth herself of course)  did not interest me.
For Bess and George, Gregory gave them a just and satisfying ending, which drew “The Other Queen” to a comforting close.
The ill-fated Mary Queen of Scots.The Tudor blood ran in her veins yet she was ousted from Scotland and denied the English crown in the event of Elizabeth's death. Her right to the crown is often debated amongst historians. Her guardian George Talbot 6th Earl of Shrewsbury.A man torn between serving his own queen Elizabeth 1 and Mary who is thrust into his household. He was in an unenviable situation; to serve England or to honor what is right and just. His wife Bess Talbot Countess of Shrewsbu
Strangely, I had little sympathy for Bess; I felt she was more concerned with losing her wealth and her houses than she was about her marriage."Fotheringay by Sandy DennyHow often she has gazed from castle windows o'er,And watched the daylight passing within her captive wall,With no-one to heed her call.The evening hour is fading within the dwindling sun,And in a lonely moment those embers will be goneAnd the last of all the young birds flown.Her days of precious freedom, forfeited long before,To live such fruitless years behind a guarded door,"One of those weird moments: While reading this novel yesterday, a really old song came on the radio (see above).
I cannot fathom why every reader must compare every book of Gregory's to The Other Boleyn Girl.
Furthermore, I will bet a million dollars that 80% of the other readers NEVER read The Other Boleyn Girl and only saw the film which is not even 100% historically accurate and is basically filled with intrique like an episode of The Tudors.
Moving on, The Other Queen, featuring Mary Stuart during her time of "protection" aka house arrest under Elizabeth I in the home of Bess of Hardwick; is indeed a great read.
This is certainly not a frothy bit of 16th century soap opera but quite a serious and well researched bit of historical fiction on life of Mary, Queen of Scots during the first few years of her imprisonment in England.It also places a great focus on one of my personal heroines of the period, Bess of Hardwick.
The others are Mary and Bess' husband George Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury, who served as her 'jailors'.
Most of the action takes place at the Talbot's estates rather than at the court of Queen Elizabeth.
This is the latest book in the Tudor series and it is painful to get through. I can pick up The Other Boleyn Girl and read through it in one sitting, but each book in the Tudor series grows more and more tired until we are left with the mess that is The Other Queen. Using three different perspectives worked fine in The Boleyn Inheritance, but in this book they change so often, sometimes lasting only a page and a half, it is hard to grow attached, or even understand the point of view of one single character.
This book has the same style as The Boleyn Inheritance, in which it goes back and forth between narratives of three different people.
She never talks of much else and she speaks every 2nd chapter.
In this book, Queen Mary just pontificates on her status.
Yada yada yada." Also, I am confused about the Bothwell situation.
One chapter she is writing him letters "My dear Bothwell, come save me," and the next chapter she is stating how he raped her and forced her to marry him and kidnapped her.
Then again, in the following chapter, she is declaring he is the only man manly enough to fight for her.
As soon as I realized that this book was Tudor-Lite, I speed-read it just to be done with it.
Which made me sad: Great Britain in the 16th century is one of my favorite periods in which to read historical fiction and non-fiction, and I've read a *lot* of these books over the years.
So "Mary as divinity" wasn't a surprise, turning the fascinating Bess of Hardwick into a Elizabethian version of Angela Channing just turned me off, and George Talbot made absolutely no impact on me whatsoever.This is how bad it was: when I was reading Mary's death scene, I was actually bored and thinking about the next book on my reading list.I truly enjoyed "The Other Boleyn Girl", and Gregory is normally a highly engaging author, so maybe that's why I'm disproportionately disappointed in "The Other Queen".
Gregory even picks out details such as Mary making an embroidery of her new motto - "In my end is my beginning" - whilst with Bess at Tutbury Castle, when in fact Mary sewed this motto when she was newly arrived in England and at Carlisle.A word on the resolution of the two plots as portrayed in the novel.
Le sigh. I swore to never ever read another Gregory book. The sample sounds like I will loathe it. But how on earth am I supposed to resist the glorious combination of Richard Armitage and Alex Kingston? Huh? HOW??? Le sigh...
Elizabeth must also figure out how to help her: Mary is a queen with no throne; Scotland refuses to accept her.
As this story begins, Elizabeth, acting both in good faith and in caution, places Mary under guard with a noble English family.
The main character, Mary Queen of Scots, is a monster bitch, I'm serious!
*********I know only a little about Mary Queen of Scots.
But I do know that she indeed conspired with others many times to steal the English throne, capture and even kill Elizabeth.
Mary was a convenient Catholic to place in throne.********I learned nothing that was remotely historical from this book.
It is unfortunate that they could not foresee the consequences of their actions but I still feel that they brought a lot of the problems onto themselves.While I enjoyed reading this book and read through it quickly, I cannot give it 5 stars because I truly dislike the writing style where each chapter is written from a different character's perspective.
Honestly I would prefer that the book be written in segments (a la Stephenie Meyer's "Twilight" series) if you MUST show the different perspectives in such a personal way or that there was a third-person narrative that would give us insights into every character.
I think this story could have been a few chapters shorter without the reader feeling anything was missing from the story.Bess was just as interesting to read about as Mary; she was a very successful businesswoman in her own right, which was very impressive as at that time, women had very few legal rights.
Gostei muito de ler este livro. Nunca tinha lido nada desta escritora e apreciei este romance histórico. Bem escrito, com personagens "reais" e emocionantes. Com capítulos curtos, optimos para alguém como eu que não tem muito tempo seguido para ler. Fiquei com vontade de ler mais livros desta autoria
It sent me back to my Anne Somerset biography of Elizabeth I to look at certain details, and like most historical fiction, has prompted an interest in reading more actual history about the characters involved.The book surprised me by being *very* focused on the Queen of Scots, with little of Elizabeth at all.
But there was a distinct (it seemed to me) assumption that Gregory in writing that "history will remember Mary rather than Elizabeth" actually thought that was what had happened, which for me at least, hasn't been the case.I found myself really warming to Bess Hardwick - who Somerset refers to only once, as the Earl of Shrewsbury's "termagent wife", when discussing the claim to Elizabeth's throne of her granddaughter, Arbella Stuart (someone else who I'm now wanting to follow up books about).
Actually, what really got on my nerves was that Bess of Hardwick had to be such a jealous bi***.
Bess, to me seems like an old ugly b****.
I see that she's jealous about George, her husband the Earl of Shrewsbury, falling in love with Queen Mary, but what can the poor guy do?
George in my mind as I picture him is a young handsome man, faithful, yet sweet and innocent how he craves to haveMary, but the crazy way of how thing are back then, he cannot cheat on Bess.
Bess is responsible and hardworking, yet uncharming, manly, jealous, and stupid.
Philippa Gregory writes brilliantly, and really draws her reader into the sights, sounds, feeling of the 16th century. She really brings history to life.
A dinastia Tudor sempre me fascinou, especialmente durante os reinados de Henry VIII e da Rainha Elizabeth- a Rainha Virgem.Uma vez que esta série é composta por seis volumes e Henry VIII casou-se seis vezes, assumi erradamente que este livro se referia à sua sexta mulher, Catherine Parr.
De qualquer maneira, dificilmente teria deixado passar a oportunidade de o ler, uma vez que a Nidia foi generosa o suficiente para o pôr a circular no Blog Ring e eu queria dar uma segunda oportunidade à autora, uma vez que Duas Irmãs, Um Rei acabou por não me conquistar como esperado.E foi assim que acabei por conhecer a Rainha Mary Stuart, entre outros.
It was also a pleasant change from reading about a few of the wives of King Henry VIII in the earlier books I read.Told from three povs, sometimes ranting and irritating ones, the story follows Mary who has a claim to three thrones; France, England and Scotland, during her imprisonment in England at the request of her cousin, Queen Elizabeth I.
Action didn't seem to be happening a lot of the time...just thoughts and thinking about what has happened, what might happen.What kept me reading was that I didn’t know the ending.
This novel deals with Mary Queen of Scots' early captivity in England whilst under the ';care' of Gilbert Talbot and his wife, Bess of Hardwick.The book is written in the first person with each of Gilbert, Mary and Bess have a 'voice' in which to describe events as they have seen / experienced them.
This is an interesting idea but imposes limitations on Gregory which in turn become major weaknesses - we cannot know anything the characters themselves do not know which leads to the introduction of a panoply of minor characters whose sole purpose is to allow Gregory to engage om plot exposition through dialogue.Mary, Talbot and Bess 'speak' in turn in chapters of no more than 6 pages long, sometimes even only half a page.
Not one of my favourite Gregory books.THE OTHER QUEEN is about Mary Queen of Scots and covers the time from when she enters England to throw herself on her cousin's mercy.
Mary is kept in custody in England - and her jailers were husband and wife Bess and George.
George falls in love with the doomed Queen and Bess just looks on.
THE OTHER QUEEN is told from the points of view of George, Bess and Mary.
Just couldn't care for them and felt like the story dragged - I was quite thankful when it came to an end.
Phillippa Gregory novels are sort of my secret shame - I love her books and pretty much devour them as soon as they come out.
I GET IT, okay?) and did a lot of telling not showing (Mary is beautiful, therefore everyone loves her and wants to serve her?
Everyone can see that she "has to be free" so they want to help her?) It was really more like a succession of plot points than a novel, in many places, which was annoying.
I usually love Phillipa Gregory's writing, but I found myself having a hard time getting attached to the story; it was told from three points of view, switching every page and a half or so.
I liked Bess of Hardwick, I was intrigued by Mary, but George annoyed me.
More of Bess and Mary, and less of George and I might've loved this book.Most of the book detailed attempts to release Mary by the northern lords of England, this was interesting.
However, the book sort of just ended with Bess and George splitting up.
Then 15 years later, Mary died, with a page and a half about it.
Not Philippa Grefory's best book by far, but it was okay. The story of Mary Queen of Scotts, this one was told from the view point of three different people, and while the comparison between Mary and Bess was interesting, the book did seem very repetitive on many issues, and did drag a bit.
The Other Queen by Philippa Gregory is number #15 in 'The Plantagenet and Tudor' novels series, but just like the others in the series, it too can be read as a stand alone.
Set in the mid to late 1500s, this story of Mary Queen of Scots is told from three perspectives: Queen Mary, her keeper George Talbot, Earl of Shrewsbury and his wife, Bess of Hardwick.Bess's sections were incredibly repetitive; the one exception being the opening paragraph of the book told to us by Bess which was incredibly gripping."Every woman should marry for her own advantage since her husband will represent her, as visible as her front door, for the rest of his life.
George Talbot, the Earl whose care Mary has been placed, Bess of Hardwick, his wife and Mary herself.
I think it helped in the story telling and gives more depth to each character.Mary had fled Scotland after a rebellion to the safety of her cousin, Queen Elizabeth !.
Mary was placed into the care of the Earl of Shrewsbury and soon finds that she is a captive of Elizabeth.
The Earl fell in love with Mary and was believed to be easily manipulated.Mary might have been eventually returned to Scotland if she had not be caught in a plot to kill Queen Elizabeth and put herself on the throne of England.
Not my favorite Philippa Gregory book.I liked about a third of it, and that was Mary's third.
I really didn't have any interest in Bess and George, though.
Bess was just a bunch of repetitive talk about her fortune, and George was a bunch of repetitive talk about loyalty and honor.
I just don't think they were written in a way that would have done their actual selves justice, because there really wasn't a lot to them.I feel like this would have been a more interesting novel if it went between Mary and Cecil or Mary and Elizabeth or all three of them, and also if it had covered more of her later life in England leading up to her execution.
Penso que a história desta rainha podia ter sido escrita e vista de outra maneira e que mesmo com o cuidado histórico que esta autora tem, ela tende muito a escrever por uma perspectiva pessoal que pode entrar em conflito com a do leitor como aconteceu comigo com o retrato algo degradante da rainha Isabel que a autora faz tanto neste como noutro livro.Para quem gosta de romances históricos aconselho muito mais a série da Guerra das Rosas que é, para mim, a melhor de Philippa até agora.
This was the book in the Tudor series that I has most looked forward to.
Mary Queen of Scot’s book.
The tv series Reign has ruined me, as that is the only version of Mary Queen of Scots that I want to know about.
I know it’s historical nonsense but that’s the passionate, clever, feisty Mary that I wanted to read about.The book felt dull, and I was never really excited while reading it.
Even her point of view was flat, unappealing, and often boring.Odd because most of the series has been 4 and 5 star reads for me.
Right when I finished the White Queen, the Stars series emerged.
And when the White Princess came out, I had long finished that era of books, and oh did we love that one too!
I read other similar Tudor books, but having reread them in order, I now could understand the epic tale over time.
The Other Queen appears to be book number 15.
The Last Tudor, that came out just recently, is actually number 14?
I have no idea what happens after Elizabeth 1.
Victoria's second child George (4?) is actually her grandfather.
Yes, we love the PBS series Victoria, now in its second season.
