https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2265.It_s_Not_about_the_Bike
Check out how she's the spitting image of his mother, 20 years younger.3) I don't think Lance is telling any big whoppers, but you do get the sense that some (many) of his anecdotes are embellished, crafted, varnished, just a little.
In the book, ghostwritten by Sally Jenkins, these anecdotes are perfect little packages tied up with bows.I do think he makes a valuable point in the epilogue, that the point - of cancer, of any struggle, of life - is not to be a survivor, but to be a fighter.
Although I do not like Lance Armstrong I love The Tour de France and want to know as much as I can of the event and the participants.I have heard that this is a very good book and while reading I noticed I forget the arrogant guy who treats the other cyclists with not enough respect.
He humiliated Marco which was not unnecessary at all in 2000, calling him El Elefanta (because Marco had big ears) since then I have no respect for this guy and this book proved I was right.He is just an angry little selfish child.Update: I wrote this nearly 10 years ago.
On second thought, Lance, I stripped the extra 4 stars I gave you when I first read the book.
It just so happens that you were a big fat liar, and now feeling sorry or happy for you is really hard to do.But here's the original review of the book I wrote, when I had assumed the author was an honest and hard-working person without all the issues he developed during the Tour de France, all of which are entirely 100% his fault.---- the old review ----I picked up this book in the juice store in San Jose on a trip in 2007.
Someone I knew had given a moving speech on Lance, and I love inspiring stories.
I love you Lance Armstrong!
At one point she gives up everything in the States and follows him to Europe to just “be there” while he trains, then on a whim Lance quits the tour and he expects her to just pack up the house and follow him back home while he sorts himself out and plays golf.When Lance is diagnosed with cancer it’s the first time in his life that cycling is not the foremost thing in his life however he handles his treatment and recovery like a big race.
دوست داشتم كتاب رو،حس ميكردي خودت هم تور دو فرانس رو داري ركاب ميزني اما نه با لباس طلايي دوچرخه سواري با لباس بيمارستان
The fact that he then has the audacity to act like he didn't do anything all that bad - a shrug and a 'what's the big deal' - demonstrates how egotistical and out of touch Lance Armstrong really is.Ultimately, it turns out that It's Not about the Bike is really a work of fiction.
While he did indeed have cancer and he did indeed struggle to survive it, the things he espouses in this book as lessons turn out to be a public relations campaign rather than anything from the heart.
The adulation he gladly soaked up turned out to be misplaced.Some will argue that Lance Armstrong and is foundation did great things for a lot of people.
Long overdue epilogue ....I am  forever indebted to Lance Armstrong and this book ... for (to some extent) saving my life . As a cyclist and (at the time) a huge Lance fan, I read and enjoyed the book ... and, only later, it was Lance's story, indelibly imprinted on my mind, that led to an early self-diagnosis of (and, thankfully, a successful treatment and recovery from) testicular cancer.Lance fundamentally changed the conversation - in the US and around the world - about cancer and post-cance
forever indebted to Lance Armstrong and this book ...
for (to some extent) saving my life
. As a cyclist and (at the time) a huge Lance fan, I read and enjoyed the book ...
and, only later, it was Lance's story, indelibly imprinted on my mind, that led to an early self-diagnosis of (and, thankfully, a successful treatment and recovery from) testicular cancer.Lance fundamentally changed the conversation - in the US and around the world - about cancer and post-cancer quality of life - and for that I respect him ...
to later find out that so much of it was ...
I read this right after my dad passed away from cancer. Lance was a hero of my dad's for some time, but I'd never seen his autobiography until I found it on my dad's shelf. Lance's drive to survive and win against all odds is an inspiration to anyone, but especially to cancer survivors & their family. It really helped me get through a difficult time, and inspired me to start doing triathlons with Team In Training (a great organization which helps benefit cancer victims). Oh - and Lance is the shit :)
Read this years before the doping thing came into limelight.I must admit, he is a strong man, what he has gone through the years, cannot be simply written off!Even though on performance enhancers, getting up, practicing each day, regularly, for years together, is not possible by critics, but by very few people, one of them appears to be you. Rating 3/5Cheers,
The book then moves to the whirlwind courtship between Lance and his wife Kik, surviving, and then returning to form and winning his first two Tour de France titles, told from his perspective as part of a growth and success narrative.Even though this is clearly a whitewash and clearly not the full story, there is a lot of worth in this book anyway, even after the truth of Armstrong's victories and the fact that they were owed to a sophisticated doping regime and a sport willing to look the other way at least for a time.
It's great that he survived cancer and all, but Lance Armstrong is a self-centered, egotistical jerk. He is so obnoxious and he doesn't even realize it. One review I read said something like "he's just smart enough to realize his story should be inspiring, but just too dumb to know why." The title is appropriate--it's not about the bike, it's about how awesome Lance is and always has been in every way! Don't waste your time reading this. That about sums it up.
But what I got was totally different and I’ve become a fan of Lance and the cycling.Lance’s life as a whole is inspiring not only the cancer survival or tour de France victories.
When Cofidis and many other teams rejected him saying he is no more the athlete who wins the races, he was determined to prove them wrong and you know what happened.I liked one more quote of him in the book.
Definitely Lance was lucky to have one.I really liked Lance’s frank account of all the things happened in his life, including his initial arrogance, his shortcomings, cancer and infertility.
A friend of mine loaned me this book years ago; he enjoyed it and recommended that I read it.
This friend had never loaned me a book before, and since he's a bit more of a jock than me, I thought I might not get the same satisfaction as he did.
I also thought Lance Armstrong would come off as a cocky overachiever, but after reading the book I have a different level of respect for him and his career.
I would recommend this to anyone - you don't need to be a sports or cycling enthusiast to appreciate this book.
You will read a lot of bad reviews stating that the guy is an asshole and that the book is bad because he is a such cocky SOB.
In fact, the best parts on the book where the cycling parts (the pre-cancer training and the first tour win).Other than cycling, you'll find a lot of personal information that makes this a very honest book.Finally, I have to say that I respect him even more after reading this book, and that I loved the parts where he throws dirt at the people that abandoned him when he had cancer.

I started the book liking Lance Armstrong and unfortunately I ended with not liking him.
I think the idolized version of Armstrong as a terminal cancer survivor that came back to win the most prestigious race in cycling not once, not twice, but a record-setting 7 times is a story better told in a short news clip.
Any coach learned the hard way that you do not tell Lance Armstrong what to do.
Like most European sports, it is a gentleman’s game (no wonder so many other riders cannot stand Lance).
It makes his accomplishments with the Tour de France that much sweeter in my mind hearing what he went through.
I think my biggest take home from the book is that your mindset and attitude towards struggles can make or break you.
Regardless of these flaws he never gave up and he looked at cancer as something that was going to push him and help him to grow instead of his ultimate death.
I think he has tried to give back and make a difference and for that he gets bonus points back for what he lacks in my point of view in personality.
He wrote this account in 1999, three years after the initial diagnosis, describing his fight against the disease and the highly improbably comeback that led to his victory in the 1999 Tour de France, cycling's greatest event.The book describes his youth in Texas - slight of build and not suited for the football that was the passion in his Texas hometown, he turned instead to triathlons as a teenager, and started winning early on.
Soon, his whole focus was on cycling.But that dream appeared to be shattered by the cancer diagnosis.
In early 2002, I was going through a rough time--I had just dropped out of college after a semester marked by panic attacks, the inability to leave my room, and a variety of reckless behaviors, and I was convinced that my life was over.
That said, other readers have found his story inspirational, and I'm willing to accept that my review is probably clouded by issues (difficult time in own life, general dislike of memoirs, distrust of by-the-bootstraps narratives and their implications) that have nothing to do with Lance (or the bike).
کتاب، خاطرات لانس آرمسترانگ از مبارزه خود با بیماری سرطان، بازگشتش به دنیای دوچرخهسواری و قهرمانی در تور دوفرانس است. مطالعه این کتاب که به توصیه علیرضا مجیدی (https://goo.gl/5SQPjt ) انجام شد، با پخش مستندی از شبکه ورزش در تاریخ 29 تیر96 به نام دروغ آرمسترانگ همزمان شد. کاش وی به وادی دوپینگ وارد نمیشد تا کماکان یک اسطوره باقی میماند. البته کتاب متن روان و ترجمه خوبی دارد.علیرضا مجیدی در پستی دیگر به نام سقوط لانس آرمسترانگ (https://goo.gl/z7iK7C) به مسئله دوپینگ وی پرداخته است. مطالعه این پست
کتاب، خاطرات لانس آرمسترانگ از مبارزه خود با بیماری سرطان، بازگشتش به دنیای دوچرخه‌سواری و قهرمانی در تور دوفرانس است. مطالعه این کتاب که به توصیه علیرضا مجیدی (https://goo.gl/5SQPjt ) انجام شد، با پخش مستندی از شبکه ورزش در تاریخ 29 تیر96 به نام دروغ آرمسترانگ همزمان شد. کاش وی به وادی دوپینگ وارد نمی‌شد تا کماکان یک اسطوره باقی می‌ماند. البته کتاب متن روان و ترجمه خوبی دارد.علیرضا مجیدی در پستی دیگر به نام سقوط لانس آرمسترانگ (https://goo.gl/z7iK7C) به مسئله دوپینگ وی پرداخته است. مطالعه این پست نیز توصیه می‌شود.
So, Lance can't write for toffee. I guess that's fine, he's a cyclist not an author. But why hire a ghost write who's only marginally better. That's an assumption actually, maybe Lance would have done better on his own...Points are clawed back to OK because it's a genuinely interesting story, it's just a shame that it's presented in such a wooden and smug book.
Și apoi, doar cine nu cunoaște ciclismul crede că dopajul te face din nimeni campion.
Dopajul înseamnă furt pentru că oferă celui dopaj un avantaj de până la 5% asupra altui sportiv curat, însă restul de 95% dintr-o performanță vine din antrenament, sacrificii și înzestrare naturală, iar Armstrong le-a avut pe toate.
Apropo de înțeles ciclismul, am penalizat ediția în limba română cu o steluță, întrucât traducerea este MIZERABILĂ.
Cartea a apărut la o editură de business (!) care a încredințat traducerea unei persoane care nu numai că nu are habar de termenii din jargonul ciclismului, însă nici nu stăpânește limba engleză.
It was good until he was ousted as a cheat!
This time around, whenever Lance would wax athletic, I would nod with a better understanding, fully aware of the reasons people decide to go the distance.The book is informally divided into three sections: Armstrong’s meteoric rise to fame, the near-fatal and sudden deterioration of his health caused by multiple cancers, and his return to cycling.
While most endurance athletes love to write about the unbearable pain towards the end or the beautiful scenery they encountered en route to the finish line, Armstrong focuses on the greater picture.Some may find the book self-indulgent and cocky, citing the first third as a pompous laundry list of a stubborn adolescent’s accomplishments.
Lance Armstrong's autobiography set out to inspire cyclists and cancer patients all around the world; and although many may have been inspired by his autobiography, I can't help but wonder how many people lost respect for a man who accomplished two of the most impossible things in the world- overcoming cancer, and winning the Tour dé France seven times consecutively.I was hopeful that I would be encountering a great story of cycling and survival when I began reading Mr. Armstrong's autobiography, but after being just a couple of pages in, I realized that Lance Armstrong's fame must have gotten to his head midway along his career.
Así de guata MAL, lleno de juicios hacia lo más "débiles" (infundados) y de superioridad (aún más infundados).La primera vez que lo leí no tenía Goodreads, pero si hubiera tenido, le habría dado cinco estrellas, porque lo encontré tan inspirador, tan interesante, tan...
pese a que al final es un grotesco mentirosón (además de ser un egocéntrico de aquellos), está bien escrito y es interesante, y no me arrepiento de habérmelo leído.Pero el lector nuevo y experienciado debe SABER que lo que lee es una linda ficción de cómo las cosas debieran ser, jajaja, no de LO QUE SON.
Tanto así que estuve a punto de sacarle la etiqueta de "autobio", pero al final la dejé porque...
Así fue como la leí (y creí) la primera vez.
The strangest thing for me in reading this book was realizing that I was right in Paris when Lance won for the first time.
My grandfather, who doesn't speak a lick of French, was proudly trying to show off my French to the waitress...I had to say something about the Tour de France to her.
The thing I most appreciated was reading about Lance's maturing from an impatient, feisty biker into a biker who had both brute strength and brains (i.e. strategy).
Trials are sacred, and through them you learn about what you are made of.
След случаен разговор за жълтите гривни Livestrong, колоезденето и силните духом, един колега ми даде книгата да я прочета.
Бях впечатлена и си я купих.
Започнах да я раздавам.Докато четях отделните глави и части от живота на Ланс, чувствата ми към него непрекъснато се променяха - ту ми се струваше егоист, отворко, самохвалко, ту му се възхищавах колко упорит, смел и борбен тип е.
Животът му е чудо и стискане на зъби.
Голям късмет е да имаш такива хора до себе си - амбициозна майка, всеотдайна жена, верни приятели и свестни лекари!Препоръчвам на всеки, стига да не мрази книги за колоездене, състезания и рак.
Respect for beating cancer and becoming a great athlete, you are good at fighting battles and winning at great odds.
But now your afraid of facing hostile ex dopers in an open hearing, I've list all respect for you if your truly innocent then you would crush this biased testimony.Thanks for destroying my faith in one of the worlds toughest sports, I have watched the Tour de France since 1984 and the great Robert Millar.
Never again, it's a shame Bradley Wiggins win happened in the same year you have been outed.I used to love respect and admire you, prove me wrong fight back!
Despite believing that Lance Armstrong was a drug using cheat, I really enjoyed his first book "It's Not About The Bike". It was a well written, compelling story. Lance is an example for everyone not to give up, not just cyclists or cancer patients, regardless of whether he's using performance enhancing substances or not.
