https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33554.Duel
Duel is an eerie novel full of surprises, a collection of creepy stories that each reflect very heavy themes in their text.
This is one and a half hours of heart pumping adrenaline.One car with a driver and one truck, driver unseen. That's all there is folks. Add to that Road rage on the extreme. One and a half hours later and I was exhausted. This was the story that Stephen Spielberg used for his first feature movie.If you haven't already, read the story and see the movie. Doesn't matter in what order as Spielberg replicates the story exactly.A classic 5 stars all the way
I think it's a bad sign when I feel like my own rating is unfair to the book.
=\The first book of Matheson's that I had ever read was I Am Legend, which to this day is still my favorite.
So, coming into this book, I had pretty high expectations, and I feel like I was let down, a little.
These stories are definitely more science fiction than horror, which was another little let down.
This is a kind of "Death Panel" story as elderly people are given a set of memory, aptitude, physical and mental tests in order to determine whether they are high-functioning enough to be allowed to live another 5 years until the next test.
With the exception of the title story, "Duel", which was the seed for Spielberg's first film, it could all be called sci-fi, though in some cases sci-fi of a scary nature.
Teleplay-like seems to be the nature of Matheson's writing style.
If it's raw you want look elsewhere.I most enjoyed the two stories that drifted furthest from this style, "The Last Day" and "The Test", in which the characters exhibit very human reactions to very extreme comditions.
I've seen a lot of Richard Matheson's work in movies and tv, but this is the first time I've actually read his short stories.
It's great to see how it originally appeared even if Matheson adaptation the screenplay a little differently - I can't believe that Mann (with two Ns) actually sees the trucker's face.
Some other favorites from this collection include "Third From The Sun", "F-", "Shipshape Home" (Peter Lorre gets mentioned!), "The Last Day", "Little Girl Lost" (adapted into a great Twilight Zone episode), "Trespass" (pretty sure that baby was a little Time Lord!), and "One For The Books".
Excellent collection of freaky stories from one of the masters.Anyone interested in the art of writing fiction should read Richard Matheson.
He plans to use the ship that he often works with to fly him, his family and their neighbours to a planet in a different solar system where they can carry on the human race.There is two key factors of this story I particularly like.
I don’t know about anyone else but when I read this I immediately started to think that he had somehow been brainwashed into thinking that the destruction of mankind was imminent and that it was his mission to save his family and his species.This man on a mission vibe was also given by the second element I liked about this story, which was the emphasis on how cold and calculating he was being.
When I borrowed this from the library, I was expecting spine-tingling horror stories. What I got instead was a collection of sci-fi short stories with elements of horror from the 1950's, except for the title story which was written in the early 70's. To my surprise, the stories were good to excellent. Matheson is an excellent writer and I'm looking forward to I Am Legend.
This collection of short stories, however, was not so great.
"Lover When You're Near Me" was a disturbing tale about a man managing work on an alien planet.
While this story is sufficiently disturbing to be entertaining, one of the most disturbing aspects of the story for me was not what happens to the poor man, so much as it's the way the female aliens have turned the men of their planet into mindless drones.
The female aliens are seen as grasping, desperate, manipulative, man-devourers, sucking out a man's freewill to make them theirs.
The similarities story and movie end there, however.
Many would consider the stories ‘Sci-Fi’ than ‘Terror’ (as stated on the front cover) but ignore the fact that they are tales of terror as well.
That can be felt across all his stories here, particularly Duel, Last Days, and Trespass.
Some of the stories would be considered dated by some but is that really justifiable criticism?
As long as the stories have interesting and creative ideas who cares if he didn’t predict the I-Pad!My favourite stories are Duel, F-, and Last Days however most in this book are top notch.
Read at midnight and was afraid I wouldn’t be able to sleep.“The Last Day”—On the day the world is going to end thanks to some unexplained astronomical disaster (Matheson seems to hint that the sun is going supernova), an unbelieving young man leaves the aftermath of an orgiastic party to reconnect with his devoutly religious mother.
The outright funniest story in the book, although it still manages a striking degree of pathos.“Shipshape Home”—A couple begin to suspect that their apartment building and their creepy janitor may be up to no good.
A man is stalked while driving cross country by a mysterious semi driver.
A man questions whether his unborn child is of human origin.
These synopses are the descriptions of just seven of the absolutely incredible stories in this collection by Richard Matheson.
Matheson is probably best know for his television work (namely, "Star Trek" and "The Twilight Zone"), but he left behind a remarkable catalog of horror and science-fiction (including the books upon which "I Am Legend" and "What Dreams May Come" are based).
The rest are hard science-fiction with minor elements of horror.
Duel, I remember as a cheesy 70s movie put out by Stephen Spielberg, and I loved it.
Duel, Lover when you're near me and Being were all pretty good; but the rest fell flat.
Cheesy story-lines; no surprises and no happy endings.
TZ was a great show, but nothing scary; very "saltine crackers." Duel is the Saltines to the buttery-flavored Ritz of I am Legend; which is a pure classic.
If you are a fan of Mathesons I am Legend, Hell House and even Stir of Echoes; then this book is a letdown.This is just my opinion; no hard feelings, eh?
I know that Matheson is widely regarded as one of the best in the horror/sci-fi short story genre and, of course, he's the author of some of the most well-respected works such as I Am Legend and Hell House, as well as a plethora of other short stories that have been optioned for films and episodes of The Twilight Zone.
I know he's one of Stephen King's greatest influences and I also know that any fan of either of the genres Matheson writes in, should be familiar with his name and the majority of the books.
I think that this was a very good collection, and enjoyed reading every page.Plot Summary:(This was tricky to do, so I did the plot of the first snippet.)Dennis Weaver was in his car driving back to his motel, when a semi pulled up beside him.
Dennis drove slower, thinking the trucker wanted to pull ahead.
The trucker was in the truck stop watching Dennis and the semi was parked outside.
Dennis left immediately, but the murderous semi followed, and so it began again.Recommendation: I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys short stories of horror, and sci-fi.
I love a good Matheson anthology. Aside from the classic title story, other stories that stood out for me were “Born if Man and Woman,” “Lover When You’re Near Me,” “The Last Day,” and the laugh-out-loud “SRL AD.”
In spite of it being mostly science fiction stories, of which I usually shy away from, these stories were pretty good. My favorites include "One For the Books" and "Little Girl Lost". Sci-Fi horror isn't something that I'd ever considered, but I may have to check out more of his works.
Duel was pretty much the only good short stories in this collection. The other short stories were hit or miss.
Richard Matheson was the consummate craftsman. He was very much a genre writer and I am not sure he ever wrote about anything that matters, but wrote his suspenseful fluff with great skill. This is true of the stories in this book.
Really enjoyed this! As with other compilations I enjoyed some stories more than others. Some of my favourites include: Duel, Shipshape Home, Death Ship, The Last Day and The Test.
Disturbing. In a good way.
Some good some bad. A mixed bag of stories.
This was awesome. Reading 1950s sci-fi was a trip. They are timeless stories. Some made me laugh, some were unsettling.
But he got me over and over and I loved it.The stories are both dated - Matheson wrote mostly in the 50s and 60s so we have constant references to record players, phones being put back in their cradles, cars that are stick shift and require you to push a button to start the engine - but the ideas are distinctly modern or perhaps I should say timeless.This anthology starts with a story that many of us my age are familiar with.
A Richard Matheson omnibus representing the heyday of mass market science fiction writing, this thick collection is a good value, spanning a fair variety of themes and a few different styles.
Matheson is an easy read who is, at his best (Little Girl Lost, Lover When You're Near Me) very good at compacting dynamic plots and strange atmospheres into vivid short fiction.
Ultimately, neither Matheson nor the publisher can be faulted for these weaknesses as this volume's intent was the collect some of his early work.
"Duel" leaves one satisfied but wishing for a compilation offering only the best of Matheson's works, regardless of when they were written.
(I marked this review as a "spoiler," but seriously, anyone could see that plot "twist" coming a mile away.) I had read "I am Legend" and another story collection that were both fantastic, and the title story in this collecction, "Duel," was just as amazing as the movie, but many of these stories, especially near the middle, felt like filler.
I'm still interested in reading some other Matheson stories, as well as a couple of his novels, including Hell House, which is next on my list.
I just hope that those works are more like I am Legend and "Duel" (the story), and less like some of the cheesier offerings in this collection.
Nato ad Allendale, New Jersey, il 20 febbraio 1926, Richard Matheson è autore di romanzi e racconti che hanno forgiato il gusto e le caratteristiche del "fantastico" contemporaneo influenzando profondamente altri linguaggi, dal cinema ai fumetti ai videogiochi. La sua opera, accanto alla maestria nel tratteggiare il soprannaturale e la suspense, è caratterizzata da un realismo rigoroso e da una paradossale "credibilità", da un'attenzione commossa a quell'umanità marginale soggiogata da un poter
Nato ad Allendale, New Jersey, il 20 febbraio 1926, Richard Matheson è autore di romanzi e racconti che hanno forgiato il gusto e le caratteristiche del "fantastico" contemporaneo influenzando profondamente altri linguaggi, dal cinema ai fumetti ai videogiochi.
La sua opera, accanto alla maestria nel tratteggiare il soprannaturale e la suspense, è caratterizzata da un realismo rigoroso e da una paradossale "credibilità", da un'attenzione commossa a quell'umanità marginale soggiogata da un potere, da un sistema, da una volontà che assumono caratteri "mostruosi".
Oltre a racconti e romanzi gialli, di fantascienza, horror, fantasy e western, Matheson ha collaborato a lungo con il cinema e la televisione.
++ DUEL ++The incipit of this short story is brief and intense, it is the essence of the entire plot
With the title story 'Duel displayed prominently on the cover, I went into this collection of short stories expecting a bunch of tense thrillers.
The majority of stories were hard science fiction (a genre that I really dislike save for a few films), the title story felt completely out of place with the rest of them, and the book as a whole was largely a pain to get through.
The only two stories I enjoyed were Duel and Being (the latter would've worked better without the sci-fi element, but instead as a horror/thriller), and the majority of other ones just fell completely flat.
A re-collection of various short stories Matheson did in the 1950's.
The only exception is the eponymous lead story which was published in the 70's and of course became Steven Spielberg's classic breakthrough film about road rage paranoia.
The collection includes his first published tale, Born of Man and WomanSome of the stories are (literally) Twilight Zone twist ending fare, such as Little Girl Lost, Steel, Third from the Sun and Death Ship.
A few stand out to me because of the moral overtones, such as The Test (euthanasia theme), The Last Day (what would you do with your last day on earth?), When the Waker Sleeps (living in a dreamworld) and Trespass (alien pregnancy).
