https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77491.Let_It_Bleed
Every time I think I’ve read all of the John Rebus books I seem to discover another one that’s slipped through the net.
This time I’m convinced it’s the last one – I’ve triple checked!
And due to the random order I’ve read these books it took me a while to catch up on where Rebus stood with a number of his colleagues who’ve popped up numerous times over the years – some friends, some foe.
It’s a harrowing scene and one that’s going to haunt Rebus.
These books don’t always have happy endings, Rebus has a self-destructive streak and he’s a stubborn ass too.
I finally broke my Ian Rankin cherry.Good things first.
It is well written and has a bit of humour.However, I grew up reading the "87th precinct" police procedurals by Ed McBain, but it's been twenty years since I read a British police procedural.
For example, an alcoholic copper, a convoluted plot about political corruption, and the high ranking cops are part of the scam.
At least McBain had a terrific ensemble cast and varied plots, but even then, it wore thin after a time.Rankin has won loads of awards and has devoted readers but I won't be joining their ranks.
This was a really entertaining book and one which I did not want to put down.
I was not entirely sure how I felt about a certain scene with a cat but I enjoyed the development of his relationship with his daughter and there was even a hint that his other relationship with alcohol might be improving too.
The book starts with an exciting car chase and ends so suddenly it is practically in the middle of a sentence.
Now I have to get hold of the next book quickly to see how on earth he gets himself out of the trouble he is in.
The 7th Inspector Rebus novel starts with a bang - literally!From then on John Rebus is drawn into a strange web of apparently unconnected acts, that eventually leads him to corruption in very high places.A good, solid, Rebus read. 3.5 stars rounded up to 4.
I was a bit disappointed with this book, an unusual result for me with a Rankin book.
There was this exciting high speed car chase, ending in a crash on a bridge and the subsequent suicides by jumping of the two unfortunate young miscreants who were being chased by the police.
Even though I've never been there, I feel as though I have after reading his books, and that is true of this book as well.
by Ian Rankin, published in 1995.Well first off I’m going to say this was the most complex Inspector Rebus novel so far.
Quite a thrill ride and there are three major plot twists for this one incident alone.An old flame returns as Rebus’s boss in this novel too.
Oops, almost gave away something.If you have been reading the Rebus novels for any amount of time like I have you, know what a delight it is to get down and dirty in Edinburgh with Inspector Rebus as your guide.
He's also extremely effective.Let it Bleed begins with a car chase that ends in a dual suicide.
Something doesn't look right to Rebus.
It also makes one wonder how many cops are out there really as engaged and interested in the truth as Rebus.As I've found through the entire series, the writing is great, the descriptions of the exotic locale of Edinburgh and its inhabitants are first-rate, interactions with peers, criminals, and superiors are interesting, and the story doesn't as much propel you quickly to the conclusion as take you through logical approaches to solving the mysteries.

Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. Another book from my world challenge and, unfortunately, not a very good choice.I can't really say I enjoyed Let it Bleed. Despite it being only 360-something pages, it felt like 800. The story was dark, dreary and slow, and it had next to no emotional pull. I realized rather late that it's one of those money-machine series with tens of novels, each the same as the previous one, and full of flat, uninteresting characters.Inspector Rebus was a very unple
I'm pretty sure even Rebus himself mentioned that.Not to mention that the entire solving of the crime was a hot mess of useless and meaningless details and conversations, and little pieces of information which, through Rebus' far-fetched deductions, lead to him solving the crime thanks more to guesswork, rather than evidence.I admit that I am not generally a fan of detective novels, for many of the reasons that lead me to not liking Let It Bleed, as well, but even as far as those go, this is one of the worse ones I've read.
just LOVE the absolute darkness of John Rebus & his tortured, almost Puritanical, conscience.
The rest of him is FAR from Puritanical, but his conscience is another matter.
These are people who will do anything for the good of Scotland, for jobs - and to line their own pockets.
The bad guys aren't all bad, but they do bad things to make the system work, for "jobs," for Scotland.
There was a television series made of some of these, but I found it to be unsatisfying.
I wish someone would grab onto this series and televise it.
I would love to see Rebus age.
One of the blurbs on the back cover refers to this as "Perhaps the best Inspector Rebus tale." This is absolutely true, for those I've read.
Rebus is, of course, a mess.
His relationships with those he cares about are in tatters.
And yet, he does care.
Another noteworthy feature of this particular entry in the series is that it provides major backstory for the books that follow.
Finally, I have some insight into relationships between Rebus, the Farmer, and Flowers.
Apparently this is a series to read in order.And now, I've got to go see if I can find the next one.
3.5 Stars
Séptima entrega del inspector John Rebus con Muerte Helada y cuyo título en inglés —Let it Bleed—, hará referencia a un álbum de los Rolling Stones y donde encontraremos varias alusiones sobre él en la novela.Uno de los mejores personajes de ficción de la novela negra y criminal, para aquí quien escribe, es John Rebus.
Un enigmático y desaliñado inspector de la policía al que le gusta demasiado el alcohol —aunque él piensa que sólo necesita beber para dormir—, y que cada tarde hará diversos recorridos por los pubs de la ciudad.Las novelas de John Rebus están clasificadas dentro del Tartan Noir, género literario escocés de novela policial con clásicas referencias al hardboiled.
Oh Rebus, you are at your incorrigible but "hearts in the right place" best in this one; a thoroughly enjoyable read.
I love how you are trying, not very effectively, mind you, to build that relationship with your daughter, how you supported and empathized with a drug-addicted teenager, how you even somehow enlisted the assistance of the odious Flower to your cause and yet still managed to leave your previous relationship with Patience in tatters (truly, did poor Lucky really deserve the fate you left him to?) and that with Gill hanging by a thread.
Honestly though Rebus, I can see how you can keep yourself going every day and toss off the collateral damage you leave in your wake along the way.
Κάποιοι, οι περισσότεροι δηλαδή, λένε ότι ο Τζον Ρέμπους δεν είναι υπαρκτό πρόσωπο, αλλά λογοτεχνικός ήρωας. Φυσικά, δεν ξέρουν τι λένε. Πώς είναι δυνατόν να μην υπάρχει ένας τέτοιος τύπος; Πέντε αστεράκια, χωρίς κανένα απολύτως ίχνος έστω προσπάθειας να υποκριθώ ότι παριστάνω πως διαθέτω ψήγματα αντικειμενικότητας. Γιατί η οικειότητα, τουλάχιστον στην περίπτωση των μυθιστορημάτων του Ράνκιν με τον επιθεωρητή Τζον Ρέμπους, δεν γεννά απαραίτητα την περιφρόνηση.
Before we get to this moment of self-deception (or self-mockery, it could go either way with his sense of humor), we're treated to what's quite possibly the most action-packed few pages in the series thus far -- more happens in the first 6 pages of this novel than can happen in chapters of Rebus novels.
Not many novels about police officers or detectives end with as much dialogue, as many meetings, as this does, but it's entirely satisfying.
Because, honestly, Rebus is a horrible police detective.
With Templer, Farmer and Clarke around, at least he's got some good, capable help.A gripping, tense, intriguing, and frequently funny, novel.
Que rabia me da que las editoriales no traduzcan los libros que forman parte de una serie en el orden original; ya que este es el 7º de John Rebus, y hasta ahora ya iban por el 20º. Esto se nota en los personajes, que son más jóvenes y menos desarrollados, lo que repercute al leer el libro y esperar el Rebus actual.Dicho esto, me ha gustado. Como siempre, personajes bien definidos, situaciones creíbles... y un Rebus más joven que aún cree que la justicía puede ganar por encima de los intereses políticos y económicos.
From BBC radio 4 Extra:A dramatic car chase ends in death and sparks an investigation by Detective Inspector Rebus that plunges deep into the very heart of local government.Ian Rankin's hard-hitting thriller uncovers a dark underbelly of 1990s Scotland in his probe of political corruption and insider dealing.Starring Alexander Morton as John Rebus, James Bryce as DI Flowers, Sarah Collier as DCI Gill Temple and Crawford Logan as Chief Superintendent Watson.Ian Rankin OBE is one of Britain's most successful crime writers.
The Crime Writers' Association awarded him its prestigious Gold Dagger Award in 2005.Dramatised by Roger Danes.
A decent, hard-boiled Rebus. Decent, hard-boiled Edinburgh.Yet I can't pinpoint why it took over a week for me to finish the book. No likable or fascinating characters (other than Rebus)? As if that would stop me. Corruption? Not a stopper but a requirement. Too dark? Definitely not. Maybe the wrong kind of dark and noir; depressed noir rather than action noir, and too many teenaged junkies and not enough other sinister characters. Plus something else missing that I can't pinpoint yet.
Rating: 3.8 starA solid crime novel that is very matter-of-fact; our narrator Rebus makes a rather interesting protagonist, one who has many flaws that further characterize him, making him more compelling to the reader.
His strong sense of justice wavers time and again: things are not easy or clear-cut.This story is heavy on the police procedure and the corruptions running in various circles: government and so forth.
Rankin brings Edinburgh to life through a vivid portrayal of the city's life.
There is a strong sense of place and of 'community'; in fact, this novel is –in some ways– challenging the gap between social classes.
I love Rebus but coming to him late I never read the books in order. Up until now this hasn't been a problem but this book lost me and the ending came far too soon and it felt like Rankin had got himself too tied up in the politics and couldn't find a way out. I will read more Rebus books but if we could try to stop him from either saving or bringing down the whole of Scotland and just have him chasing a good old fashioned serial killer they would be nice.
This first American first edition, first printing. hardcover is signed by Ian Rankin.
Rebus is making waves and just can not let something alone. A suicide yet he wants to continue to investigate it.
Rebus forged ahead toward the object of the chase as their car teetered on the edge of a bridge - two young men.
He attempted to save them, but they preferred leaving the world on their own terms, diving over the edge.The investigation of the young men led to the discovery of a business plan that Rebus would not let go of, despite being forced to take a "vacation" from work.
The levels of Edinburgh governing authorities involved in a conspiracy for private profit were of the highest.Was "Rebus the Crusader" daunted by them or duly impressed?
En esta ocasión Rebus se encuentra en medio de un enredado y entramado caso de delitos de cuello bla
This is a great Rebus novel not because of the case; a standard power play involving public officials at various levels seeking power, control and money all in the name of what is good for the country but because of how Rebus deals with his involvement in it and how he struggles with the right thing to do.
These characters are not background as in many of the novels but they are intimately involved.
It is the variety of each novel that keeps me reading this series and I expect many other surprises in the series.
Certainly a deeper look at Scotland and the political intricacies that abound in this country.
Rebus finds himself in the middle of a political intrigue that seems to spread everywhere in his beloved Edinburgh.
Rebus' innate honesty and moral rectitude cannot allow him to tolerate that anyone get away with this type of intrigue that has caused the deaths of people, so he pursues the case even though he's supposedly on holiday from work.
I really like Rebus with his beautifully flawed character.
Rankin has developed an excellent character in his John Rebus.
I look forward to reading the next book in the series.
It is not really necessary in terms of the story lines but you get a better appreciation of the characters involved.
And John is one rough character.
This novel begins with a couple of suicides: two youths "fall" off a bridge and a felon recently released from prison blows himself to bits in front of a municipal councilman.
The story line gets a bit convoluted at times, involving local Scottish politics, and for those on this side of the pond, it is not easy to keep all the acronyms straight or to decipher some of the Scottish slang.
After reading later Rebus novels, this one pales by comparison.
With a good title borrowed from a Stones song, and an exciting car chase to start the book, perhaps it promised more than it could deliver.
Ian Rankin has improved immeasurably over time, and while this one is still good, it dates back to 1995 and I really didn't find it quite as engaging.
Besides its age, another contributing factor to my ambivalence might be that people who later became major characters in the series, such as Siobhan Clarke, merely hover on the periphery here.
Narrated By: Samuel Gillies Book 7 of Inspector Rebus mystery series Published By: Clipper Audio * The seventh in the series of the award winning, best-selling Inspector Rebus crime novels, grips us with first-rate plotting and fierce realism.It’s a bitter winter in Edinburgh, and Rebus has found himself wrapped in a case that provides more questions than answers. Was Lord Provost’s daughter kidnapped, or is she a runaway? Why is a city councillor shredding documents that should have been destro

