https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41074.The_Sheep_Look_Up


Why are all the dystopian novels I read in my teens coming true? I have to keep reminding myself that this is science fiction from the 70s, not real life here and now.  • “Don’t Drink” notices warn people when the tap water isn’t safe to drink. • The less fortunate are given synthetic food to eat, while the well-to-do pay top-dollar at an organic food supermarket. • The President’s dictum regarding the press is: “If the papers know what’s good for them they’ll print what’s good for America” (192
Why are all the dystopian novels I read in my teens coming true?
•	  “Don’t Drink” notices warn people when the tap water isn’t safe to drink.
•	 The less fortunate are given synthetic food to eat, while the well-to-do pay top-dollar at an organic food supermarket.
When I first read The Sheep Look Up, I enjoyed it as I did most science-fiction—as a work of pure imagination.
I read it knowing that...•	 The people of Flint still cannot drink their water.
•	 The only alternative to eating genetically-modified food is paying top-dollar for organic.
One need only look at the last presidential election for proof of that.
Brunner uses a very strange literary style, one that he more or less invented and used (as far as I know) only in two novels -- Stand on Zanzibar (where it didn't work, at least for me) and The Sheep Look Up, where it is pretty amazing.
The chapters at first seem inchoate, scattered, disconnected, but as the story evolves they are gradually, smoothly, wound together until they form a completely coherent whole and the book moves through to its inevitable conclusion.Given that our world of today corresponds with Brunner's vision to an absolutely terrifying extent, all readers should pay careful attention to that conclusion.
If you visit American city,You will find it very pretty.Just two things of which you must beware:Don't drink the water and don't breathe the air!*"How often do I have to tell you?
Take a look at his portrait of the Pacific Ocean:The water looked more like oil.
. .Lots of things there that you can drink,But stay away from the kitchen sink!The breakfast garbage that you throw into the BayThey drink at lunch in San Jose.*This book is a difficult read.
So go to the city,See the crazy people there.Like lambs to the slaughter,They're drinking the waterAnd breathing [cough] the air!**Pollution by Tom Lehrer - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JPrAu...
However the extrapolations that Brunner has made in this book leaves most PKD novels in the dust, and that's one of the reasons this books is so unsettling.While I was reading I couldn't resist to urge to write down some of the speculations that Brunner made in this novel that are uncomfortably like the world we see right now.
The style is very broken, telling many stories at once with very little indication of how they're related.
It's a bleak world where the climate is broken and polluted, the government is controlling and full of platitudes and outright lies, food and water is scarce, you need filtered masks to breath outside in the cities, and poverty is rampant.
The story follows the lives of a number of people and how they survive in the world as it now stands.
It isn't a book I'd easily recommend to anyone, but I'm glad to have read it.
It isn't an easy book to read, nor is it comfortable.
Because it was written in 1972, before some of the gains of the sexual revolution and civil rights had been realized and when the population of the United States was about 100 million less, some of the words and attitudes seem a bit out of date, i.e. use of fuzz or pig for police; the remarks Peg, as a female reporter, has to endure just because she is good-looking; what is considered wealthy, the price of things and the scale of the economy, etc.
The whole world is rotting and the core of that rot is the United States with its population of proud, polluting, entitled, careless, clueless millions with their attitudes of we are the best, our way is the only right way, everything was put on this earth just for us, etc.
I love that rhyme – sturgeons/detergents – and I have to admit it’s way more fun to listen to two minutes of Tom than it is to plough through this jeremiad of a novel from 1972.
So I think The Sheep Look Up (which in this novel they better not do or they’ll be bound to get a faceful of DDT) is a well-orchestrated miseryfest which we no longer need to read as we can just turn on the tv and it’s all right there.
“The Sheep Look Up” will go on it, next to “The Handmaid’s Tale”, “Brave New World” and “It Can’t Happen Here”.This book is set in a world where careless and entitled human attitudes have destroyed the environment to the point where you need to wear a gas mask when you venture out of your house, you can’t drink the water because pollution has ruined rivers and oceans all over the world, crop failings on a massive scale has made fresh produce a luxury only the very wealthy can afford (while lower classes survive on processed… edibles), the government is increasingly controlled by corporations and a bunch of diseases have mutated to resist antibiotics and other medication.
4.5 stars. A brilliant novel. Not as good as Stands on Zanzibar, but that is not much of a criticism given that Zanzibar is one of the best novels ever written IMHO. This is a novel that explores the effect of unchecked out of control pollution and environmental collapse. Recommended. Nominee: Nebula Award Best NovelNominee:(6th place) Locus Award Best Science Fiction Novel
The rich are busy developing new food products, such as Nutripon, and selling purified air and water to those who can afford it.
Stories of a mysterious illness causing madness and murder in Africa and South America after their starving people are fed samples of the new miracle foods being developed are quickly suppressed, as are stories about the terrorist activities of a group, Trainites, hiding in the garbage-strewn cities only to show themselves in painting a black skull and crossbones on cars and buildings which emit pollution.
The people of America are reassured by the Media and the Government and Big Business.
This novel is scary.Rarely has a novel actually made me concerned about what is happening in our society. In the book, the world is basically going to shit, people cannot breathe the air, basic infections are rampant, old pollutions are killing people but the government/corporations are covering it up. The only people who can live healthily are the rich.The story has is ominously correct on topics such as organic farmer, vegetables making individuals sick, corporations profiting from healthy alternatives, and even the ELF...
Stand on Zanzibar and The Sheep Look Up were two of my favourite books at university, and the covers even appear in my Master's Thesis.Brunner wrote a few truly awful sci-fi books, and then "something happened" and he wrote these two masterpieces. Truly Awesome books!
It took me a long time to get through this book.
I had to put it down to read other, lighter books along the way.
But seriously, I dare you to read this and not find the parallels to our current political/social climate (See what I did there?) There were so many times when I said "this is actually happening" and had to take a breather.
There have been so many times over the last few weeks when, watching the news, I said "this is from the book".
I'm going back to reading YA fiction.
It’s the kind of book that motivated me to read out on my deck whenever I could, so I could be surrounded with fresh air, sunshine, singing birds, and healthy, green, growing things.
This book was less about the story and the characters than it was about getting the author’s message across at all costs.I was originally planning to read another random book or two before going back to Discworld, but right now I’m in the mood for something silly and fluffy and funny.
I think I’m going to read at least one Discworld book before moving back to some of the other books on my list.
I know I've read this before, but didn't remember a thing. It's a little slow to begin, it jumps about confusingly, and it definitely seems a little dated (not as much as you might think for a book published in 1972, though). I could live without the lectures on the dangers of specific toxins like lead and PCBs. I'm pretty sure I knew all that stuff when I would have first read it.      I think this is supposed to be set in the 1980s - though I can't find why I thought that - which is about the
I could live without the lectures on the dangers of specific toxins like lead and PCBs. I'm pretty sure I knew all that stuff when I would have first read it.
DDT has turned out to be much less of a problem than it could have been, as we pretty well caught it in time, but the importation of agriculturally dangerous pests may well be the thing that causes our apocalypse.
When the journalist Peg meets Austin Train, the lone voice in the wilderness warning about the ecological dangers we face, she has to ask his astrological sign.
Personally, I don't think there's anything wrong with a work of didactic fiction if it's done well and has other things going for it.
His strange death becomes an event that will eventually draw together the stories of every character in this novel in a roundabout way, all of whom are caught up in the country's growing state of emergency in their own fashion.
Punctuating their ongoing stories are bits of speeches, news reports, poems, songs, television-show transcripts and scenes from outside the country, where the army is at war with its current enemy in Latin America.
yet." Combining real and fictional newspaper articles, ancient hymns and poems, and a series of interlocking character narratives not unlike Infinite Jest (minus the hyperbolic prose and enjoyable tangents), 'Sheep' mourns the the selfishness of mankind and the insufferable greed that drives us, and brings about our eventual downfall.Sure, some of the references are dated - as usual the computer&communications tech is wildly off, women are generally a little overly 'flighty', the dialogue can be a tad 20th century and of course, it really ISN'T (yet) as bad as all that.
Essentially you end up feeling that most of the characters would be better off dead.
This book was written in 1972 and it remains relevant, especially given the current situation with respect to worldwide environmental accords. Yes there are too many of us and we have abused our planet. There are quite a few characters in the book who collectively tell the story. Not many of them are still alive at the end, taken out by the "Syndicate", the FBI, or various groups of terrorists - some in favor of the environment, some right wing, some just plain scared.
This book was very hard to get in to at first. It's written in a very disjointed style that takes some working to get through. But it is worth it. The things in this book never occurred but the scary thing is it can still happen. All the chemicals in this book are real. Their effects on humans are real. They way that governments and corporations look after their own to the expense of others is real. Hopefully this world doesn't go the same way but it's up to us to make sure it doesn't.
A very rare thing for me - a DNF .
I made it half way and decided I was wasting a part of my life.
Maybe when it was written this was a foreseeable future and I could have continued reading if that was the only issue.
But it just kept on and on.
I kept saying okay you made your point, move on.
I have read that it does improve towards the end of the book.
I just couldn't wait that long.
Never mind.
I know a lot of people did enjoy this book and I am glad.
It is heavily based on the real world situation in the late 60s and early 70s: a fractured hippie movement with increased number of drug addicts, black militia movements started by Black Panthers and riots like “Long, hot summer of 1967”, serious deterioration of environmental situation in large urban areas (e.g. the Great Smog of 1952 in London) and publication of the Club of Rome dire warnings.In the novel the large metropolitan areas are so dirty that no one walks the street without a mask and people don’t see the Sun for months in a row.
Down in, say, Denver, though (where, incidentally, a lot of the most gruesome action in The Sheep Look Up takes place), well, they do have those smog warnings on some days, and some days I can look south and kind of see it.The America of The Sheep Look Up is one in which no books like The Sheep Look Up ever got written, or, if they did, paid attention to.
We get stories from both sides of the barricades, profiteers and agitators for a better world (or at least for an end to the madness, since this America may well be past the point of no return, environmentally).
Near future sci fi novel hits pretty close to real life.
A portrait of extremes, the consequences of disregarding the environment and the industries that pollute, agricultural catastrophes associated with pesticides, issues associated with the disposal of toxic waste, diseases adapting to antibiotics and the consequences of inept government oversight.
Though Brunner is British, this novel was written about America.
Written in 1972, Brunner was an incredible observer who seems to extrapolate what was happening then to a possible conclusion some 40 years later and it is really close.
It is consistent with a theme I have been noticing in the older books I've been reading.
This is an excellent read, but very tough to work through.
John Brunner has written a masterpiece and it looks at what could have happened if the world did not turn back in the late 1960's and start to take care of the environment.
Written in a disjointed style, The Sheep Look Up is a series of vignettes of a world in decline and no idea what to do about fixing itself.
This book will leave you depressed and forlorn.
Tough to read and depressing, but excellent.

Written in 1972, "The Sheep Look Up" is John Brunner's vision of environmental calamity in the near future.
That the near future in the book takes place in the 1970's is a bit of a distraction from the anti-pollution message.
The public obviously wants a figurehead, who'd look good and make comforting noises."There is also talk of the rich fleeing to less contaminated areas like New Zealand (happening now), children who are more timid and less well off than their parents ("snowflakes") and a host of environmental collapses that have actually occurred or are well on their way.
Brunner, unlike many of his peers, knows how to come up with interesting, poignant characters and fairly credible dialogue.
When the inevitable runs over his characters, you feel something for them.Brunner's narrative style is also ambitious: the book unrolls over the course of a single year, with every chapter occurring in the space of a single month.
Each chapter is further subdivided into subchapters dealing with individual characters, fragments of news releases, and odd (but significant) peripheral events--the result is a kaleidoscope aimed at the future, as events, places and people swirl into and against each other.
Brunner's bleak look at a future that never happened is a curio.
Set in America but obviously written by a Brit, its quaint attempts at tough American talk are completely undercut by the writer's native tongue.
So many things are wrong with this book, so much is dated (and was the day it was published in 1972) that sometimes it's hard to see what's right about it.
The results of indifferent pollution are well done, but basically this is just a setup for his lectures on what we've done to the planet and to us.
could he not foresee recycling?
organic foods?
emission controls?Nowhere near as good as STAND ON ZANZIBAR.
