https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33621427-home-fire
If you read a few reviews you will realize that the novel is based on Antigone.
This subject has an important role in the novel and it made understand how difficult it must be to make sure that you do everything right, that you do not provoke violence, always being afraid of being followed.
I received this copy from the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.****4.5* An excellent book overall although there were some shaky parts.
Made me think about a subject I did not pay too much attention: how to live in as a Muslim Citizen of an European country with the potential terrorist stigma.
Isma does what she believes is right, even as it causes a rift in her family, but she is bound and determined that her brother will not follow in her father's footsteps."For girls, becoming women was inevitability; for boys, becoming men was ambition."When Eamonn, the son of a prominent British politician who has struggled with his own Muslim background in furthering his ambitions, enters the sisters' lives, he, too, causes a rift that he doesn't quite realize at first.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend.
WINNER for the women’s prize of fiction for 2018!!!!!SHORT LISTED FOR THE WOMAN’S PRIZE FOR FICTIONLONG LISTED FOR THE MAN BOOKER PRIZEWOW!!!!!Personal and political life merges together in the most heartbreaking of ways when a man loves a woman whose family is connected to a Muslim terrorist.
The author explores justice, love, and passion in ways that can be compared to older classics - think Romeo and Juliet - yet set in modern time.
Beautifully written - poetic - great character development.It’s painful to read about two families pitted against each other...but it’s very insightful and informative- especially how the ISIS recruits - influences - and corrupts.
I remember very little about Antigone, refreshed my memory on Wiki, but I cannot really knowledgeably comment on the adequecy of the comparison.The novel starts out slowly paced, rather inoculously, as a young Muslim women, who has spent many years raising her two twin siblings.
The novel displays a confidence not only in prose but in how the story is related, which I found extremely effective.Complex issues.
Government stances versus family, fear versus love, and the difficulties of Muslims, how they must act to fit in with society.
I don't give 1-star reviews very often because I feel like I don't read a lot of books I would label as 'bad.' And this book, even, isn't 'bad' in my eyes.
The characters were flat, the plot was paper thin (even though I know it's a modern retelling of Antigone, I don't feel like that knowledge did anything to elevate the story), and the writing was nothing special and verged on poor at times.
Wouldn't necessarily recommend this but read some other reviews and see what people had to say that liked it, because it might be just the right book for you.
I went looking for a review copy of this when it was included on the Man Booker Prize Long list, and was approved for one by the publisher through Edelweiss.This is a book that kept morphing as I read it and discussed it, and it ended up in a place far removed from my expectations at the beginning.
At this point the novel feels like it is headed one specific direction, but there is a major shift to a romance novel for a while, and then it turns into a jihadist recruitment novel, and then a story about the placelessness of people labeled terrorists.
Isma is an orphan who has been looking after her younger twin siblings (Aneeka and Parvaiz), and her father was a jihadi fighter in Chechnya and Afghanistan who only returned occasionally.
This section is primarily a scene setter - the real action starts when Eamonn returns to London and meets Aneeka.
He is a drifter more interested in sound recording than working who is left at a loose end when Isma leaves for America and Aneeka starts a law degree.
Things heat up when Parvaiz decides he wants to return to Britain, and the remainder of the book plays out the tragedy that ensues.
Isma, Aneeka and Pavaiz have had nothing but each other for a long time, Their father's past rears it's ugly head and Parvaiz gets drawn into a world that nightmares are made of.I loved the structure of this novel as it tells each character's story from his or her point of view in separate chapters.
This is a brave novel and certainly makes you think, its well written and the characters are believable and interesting.
I knew this going in, so I did some research on Antigone so I could appreciate the parallels as they unfolded."Home Fire" is told through 5 viewpoints: sisters Isma and Aneeka, their brother Parvaiz (Aneeka's twin), British Home Secretary Karamat Lone and his son Eamonn.
Being the children of a known terrorist creates difficulties for Isma, Aneeka and Parvaiz that play out in various ways throughout the narratives.This is a classic Greek tragedy in a modern "of the moment" setting, both heartbreaking and eye-opening.
I deeply appreciate Shamsie's ability to create empathy for each character and their situations.
Delighted that this has now been recognised as the magnificent book it is: well done Women's Prize panel!Inspired by Sophocles' Antigone, this has a slightly shaky start but then soars into an outstanding tragedy of love, politics, justice and humanity.
By drawing on Athenian tragedy, Shamsie makes the point that clashes of civic law vs a deeper, more humane sense of what is right have  always been contested, and the tension between family and state always problematic.
A searing, towering, magnificent piece of storytelling which deserves to win prizes and be read by everyone - brava, Ms Shamsie!
Congratulations to Home Fire for winning the 2018 Women's Prize for Fiction! I don't know why I'd been under the impression that Home Fire was going to be a kind of loose, 'blink and you miss it' retelling of Antigone, but I'm almost glad that that had been my expectation, because the reality of this book completely caught me off guard. And I loved it. In this novel Kamila Shamsie gives us a fearless adaptation set in present-day London, following two Muslim families both grappling with family
Just consider that this reads more like a Greek tragedy than it does a contemporary novel - not in terms of prose quality, certainly, but in terms of themes and narrative structure.There is nothing subtle about the way in which Shamsie riffs off Sophocles, but the hidden depths in Home Fire makes it a rewarding and necessary retelling, as does Shamsie's choice to reframe the story around an all-Muslim host of characters.
Home Fire - as with Preti Taneja's recent wonderful retelling of King Lear, We That Are Young - is told in five sections, in the third person from the perspectives of the key characters:- Isma (Ismene), a young woman and LSE trained sociologist- Eamonn (Haemon), son of the Home Secretary- Parvaiz (Polyneices), Isma's 19 year-old younger brother- Aneeka (Antigone), Parvaiz's twin sister, studying law at LSE, and- Karamat (Creon), whose Irish wife Terri fills the role of the prophet TeiresiasThe novel opens with Isma at Heathrow undergoing an interview from British immigration authorities, although she is actually leaving the country to start a PhD in America.
It is topical: two British families with Muslim religious roots and Pakistani backgrounds cone together in a doomed pas de deux .
The cultural difficulties she writes of may not be too difficult for her to imagine, I’m guessing.I read this novel very fast—it has a strange, porous density to it.
The girl's family is orphaned.
The boy’s family needs no introduction, being daily in the news for British political leadership and therefore on display.
It may be just like those things, but I doubt it.In the end this struck me as an early attempt by a sort-of-promising author except that there was no weight to any of it.
I felt no grandeur in this novel, however.
Winner of the 2018 Women's Prize. And a book which seems uncanningly prescient given the recent change in Home Secretary.A book I originally read due to its longlisting for the 2017 Booker prize and by an author whose previous works I have not read. In the stories of wicked tyrants men and women are punished with exile, bodies are kept from their families –their heads impaled on spikes, their corpses thrown into unmarked graves. All these things happen according to the law, but not according to
The book is a retelling of Antigone – a classical play with which I was unfamiliar, but which I read in preparation for reading this novel.The main characters of Home Fire and their Antigone equivalents are in two main families: Three siblings from an Anglo-Pakistani family – the studious and serious Isma (Isemene), her beautiful and more impetuous and younger-by-9-years sister Aneeka (Antigone), and Aneeka’s impressionable twin brother Parvaiz (Polyneices); A high profile Conservative politician Karamat Lone “Wolf” (Creon), his son Eamonn (Haimon) and his rich Irish interior designer wife Terri (effectively the prophet Tiresias).The book is told in 5 third party point of view sections told in turn from the viewpoint of Isma.
The prejudices and "extra security measures" these folks are subjected to is explored through the eyes of the Pasha family.
As the story progresses, we learn more about the plight of the Pasha family, whose father was hailed as a hero by jihadi groups and died en route to Guantanamo bay.
The only downside was that each character's perspective was highlighted only once throughout the story, so as the plot progressed, I would have liked to have returned to a former character's POV to hear what they were experiencing further along.
Mixed within the prose between politics and terrorism are two families intertwined at the heart of it all.
I felt a deep connection with the plight of the characters and how parts of their personal story unravel to really make you understand the complexities of the issues surrounding them.
The author reveals the background of the characters in a way that make you truly understand some of the reasoning behind their behaviours, she was able to draw me in and blow me away at her intricate writing skills.
I applaud the author for what I consider an important piece of writing and so very fitting for our current political climate.
and we really can’t get our heads around Islam, even though many of our friends and neighbors are Muslim and we are used to mosques being part of the British skyline.We don’t like religious intolerance but then we don’t spend that much time trying to understand other religious traditions either.Extreme, fundamentalist religion and the atrocities that stem from it are particularly confusing to us, whether it be the Irish troubles that I grew up with, or the more recent spate of Isis/ Al-Qaeda terrorist incidents.Home Fire by Kamila Shamsie is one of those novels that adds knowledge and widens perspectives.
The concept is an intriguing one - to re-write the Antigone story in an up-to-date setting (and it IS very up-to-date); it has a lot to say about the state of politics in our twittering, tweeting world, in our world of asymmetrical warfare; the characters resonate, the writing never jars, the font is large enough, it sneaks in at well under 300 pages so I can't even complain that it makes excessive demands on my time.And yet it does nothing.
After around page 150, knowing how the Antigone story ends, you know, not well for anyone really, it didn't even interest me much.
This was a 3-star read for most of the book, but the last section was so phenomenal that it elevated the entire novel to something really special. Shamsie establishes the sovereignty of her own story before really diving into the Antigone references at the end, and she plays with a range of themes from Antigone and addresses contemporary issues without diminishing either goal. I leave this book with a much deeper sense of how complicated it is to be a British Muslim than I've gotten from any no
This was a 3-star read for most of the book, but the last section was so phenomenal that it elevated the entire novel to something really special.
I leave this book with a much deeper sense of how complicated it is to be a British Muslim than I've gotten from any nonfiction.
If the Man Booker judges wanted a commercial, topical, powerful book on the shortlist, it’s an absolute affront that this wasn’t chosen over such a superficial, incompetent book like Exit West.
An AFFRONT, I say.
This book reminded me of why I love fiction so much.
However, I rather think this book stands well enough on it's own.Shamsie does take a while to get this story going, but I think that slow start is important when you consider the novel as a whole.
My other great joy in this book was the whole thing with sound, that was such a clever motif that develops beautifully through the novel.Everything about this book worked for me and I am bereft it is over.
تكتب كاملة شمسي عن الانتماء الذي يتحوّل من "وطنية" إلى "فاشية"، وعن المطالبات (اليمينية غالبًا) بنقاوة الولاء إلى حد تسطيح الهوية والكذب على الذات.
البشر ليسوا "معلبات" ترصها على "الأرفف الصحيحة"، والهوية مركبة ومعقدة وملتبسة في كل واحدٍ منا.تتطرق الرواية إلى قضايا معاصرة، مثل داعش، والإسلاموفوبيا، وتعدد الجنسيات، وجوازات السفر، والهويات القاتلة، وزيف مزاعم الدول المتقدمة.
هذه الرواية هي ابنة زمنها، بكل تأكيد، وهي تنتمي للحقيقة شديدة الكثافة، وليس للرأي الأحادي.
إنساني، دقيق ومليء بالتفاصيل "الصحيحة" بما يكفي لكي تصبح شخوص هذا النص ..
حية وثلاثية الأبعاد.الترجمة ممتازة (كعادة الحارث النبهان)، وكاملة شمسي أستاذة حقيقية.شكرا دار التنوير على رواية "لا تنسى"
Audiobook performed by Tania Rodrigues 7h 54 min   A shortlist candidate for the Women's Prize for Fiction 2018.If my reading of longlist nominee  Miss Burma  was the least read book, then  Home Fire certainly appears to be one of the more popular reads of my fellow reviewers.
Written by Kamila Shamsie, a British-Pakistani author,  Home Fire  strikes a relevant chord in the post 9/11 world where discrimination against Muslim men and women in our airports, media, and among the general public is an all too familiar story.
Let me make it clear that the audio performance was solid, but I have this distance in feeling with the story.
We do needthem, and the fact that the story of Antigone, astory about a girl who wants to honour the bodyof her dead brother, and why she does, keeps being told suggests that we do need this story, that itmight be one of the ways that we make life anddeath meaningful, that it might be a way to helpus understand life and death, and that there's something nourishing in it, even though it is fullof terrible and difficult things, a very dark storyfull of sadness."Kamila Shamsie's Home Fire is a contemporary retelling of the classic play, set in contemporary London.
The fact that he was Muslim never even registered with me until she, a former Catholic, tentatively started telling people about this.
So, at the start of Eamonn and Aneeka’s relationship I thought I knew where the story was going.
Its about this brother that made a stupid mistake and gets trapped in a situation no one could prepare him for.The story is told from 5 different perspectives and each new POV added a layer of intensity to a plot that was a little slow to start.
The fact that some of the characters had ties to jihadists, and others to politics made this very thought provoking indeed.
This exploration of our current political climate made me so aware of my inadvertent white privilege and not only did this open up factors of the Muslim identity, that I had no prior knowledge of, but it allowed the reader to see how casual racism enforces a division in people, and to actually feel how it effects the members it seeks to isolate.Whilst continuing to be a powerfully political and insightful read throughout, this also delivered a heart-wrenching plot focused on a topic that needs no gender, ethnicity, culture, or sexual preference to identify it.
Death you have to live through."Well I can certainly see why this novel has earned heavy praise.
When the thought of living without them is so painful that you find it impossible to go on.What shocked me about the story was the ease with which Parvaiz was radicalized.
I'm not saying this story will make me sympathetic to their situation, but it will help me to understand how such a thing might happen.If I have one criticism of Home Fire it's the lack of Isma.
This is a fearless, thought-provoking novel, and an urgent read for the times we live in.
The story is split in five parts, each moving the story forward from a different point of view:- Isma- Aneeka- Parvaiz- Karamat, the British Home Secretary in charge of fighting terrorism, who is himself the child of Muslim immigrants- Eamonn, Karamat's son, who falls in love with AneekaI would like to talk a little about the parallels to "Antigone", but beware: While I stopped my little summary above to avoid spoilers, the connections between "Home Fire" and "Antigone" will give you some hints concerning what will happen to the three siblings!
[4+ ] Home Fire is about two sisters and a brother who are pulled in different directions by outside forces. This short novel packs a strong punch - I was mesmerized and terrified. It is based on Antigone and even though I'm vaguely familiar with the story, I was still surprised and stunned.
This book isn’t perfect, but it is very, very good.I have seen some discussions about the use Shamsie makes of Antigone, perhaps specifically Anouilh’s version produced in occupied France during World War II.
The same is true of Shamsie’s novel, but I prefer the way Shamsie has used her source material (although Taneja’s book is also extremely good).In Home Fire, we get the story of Isma and her twin, younger siblings Aneeka and Parvaiz.
The first section focuses on Isma and her journey to America where she meets the man with the politician father.
