https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36373648-the-mars-room
Even Romy's first-person chapters felt distant and impersonal, like she was looking down on events from far away and not living them.
Now Romy is serving consecutive life sentences in a California women's correctional facility.These themes speak to something close to my heart-- the way poverty and background can deeply affect all aspects of a person's life.
This book didn't have to work hard to sell me on its point; it just had to keep me interested in its characters and the story being told.
Obviously any person with a heart would feel sorry for Romy, but that's about the extent of the emotional connection.
3.5 stars I read an in-depth article in New Yorker Magazine that made it apparent why Rachel Kushner can so vividly bring her characters in this book to life.
(The link to the article is below.) She followed an inmate at a California prison because she wanted to have people in her life “that the State of California rendered invisible to others.” She brings these real people to us through a cast of characters in her fictional account of life in prison.
We come to know someone from the outside, Gordon Hauser, a prison teacher who gets involved in the lives of some of the inmates - mailing letters , buying them books, flower seeds, a paint set.
Plus I have a paper copy of “The Flame Throwers” which I’ve started and stopped too many times.
Her audio-voice is so darn praiseworthy- I just can’t say it enough about the impact I felt it made on her book.
I could visualize the strip club in San Francisco- the bickering between the girls - the men - the hustle- the rough reality- the money passed - I saw the Golden Gate Bridge the way Romy saw it....( a curse)...San Francisco was a place where fights started.
Disturbing book....YES - yet I can’t stress enough RACHEL’S VOICE....she does something to brighten the bleak.
It’s impossible not to feel sorry for her: She had a bum lawyer and a crazy-long sentence, and she has a 7-year-old kid who she most likely will never see again.Oh what a rich book!
In fact, a teacher at the prison gives Romy Jesus' Son, and after reading it, she said:“I was paranoid he thought I was a no-good ex-junkie like the characters in the stories.
You really feel like you are sitting there with them; the writer is amazingly good with prison details, and the story sounds so authentic.
I'm one to admit when I just do not get the hype on a book. This is one that I just did not jump on the train with. I am bit confused by it actually. The majority of the book is about Romy, who has been sentenced to two life sentences for murdering her stalker. She is poor and worked as a stripper..so she basically stood no chance in the justice system.This part of the book kept me interested. For some sicko reason prison type dramas are one of my favorite subjects...and it does not have to be f
The majority of the book is about Romy, who has been sentenced to two life sentences for murdering her stalker.
For some sicko reason prison type dramas are one of my favorite subjects...and it does not have to be farting unicorn type storylines.For example..one of my favorite shows of all time...
The women in the prison are not being portrayed as innocents..they did their crimes.
So it was not that that kinda soured this book for me.It was the jumping time line and viewpoints.
Then when Romy's crime is finally explained I did not really like her much either.
The Mars Room is a provocative, raveworthy exploration of choices or, indeed, the absence of any perceived choice for adolescent and teen female criminals on the lower echelon of the socio-economic scale who grow up sexually abused, addicted to street drugs and/or engaged in a sex-related trade because they've had no choice in where, how and by whom they were raised, the adverse societal effects being the counterproductive institutionalization of a legion of women, their repetitive recidivism and a vicious intergenerational cycle of passing down the pain.
Kushner does a great job of showing the reality of Romy’s life — where she came from, how she got to prison, and her life in prison.
At the same time, Kushner does a great job showing how smart, resourceful and resilient Romy is.
Besides Romy, The Mars Room features a few other characters connected to Romy or life in prison.
Ultimately, Kushner’s book suggests that the path that gets women into prison is often laden with poverty, addiction and abuse.
She describes the research she did about women in prison before writing The Mars Room.
She excuses nothing - we are dealing with convicted fellons, many of them murderers, some on death row - but she illustrates the reality in which these women were brought up, and that puts the terrible decisions they made in context, and it raises the question what the aim of the prison system should be.The main character is Romy, a young mother, former stripper and former drug-addict, who got two life sentences plus six years for killing her stalker.
Orange is the New Bleh.
If you’ve ever seen a happy baby, you’ll know right away why it was so important for Romy to protect him, and why he was her lifesaver.We learn about the personnel in a prison environment: guards, GED teachers, intake counselors.
The GED teacher, Gordon Hauser, the Thoreau specialist living in a one-room mountain shack while he worked at the prison, was gifted the diary by a fellow Berkeley grad because of the coincidences.
Persuasion as a tool is a crude thing, though it did work once for Romy, with Gordon Hauser, the GED teacher.
I thought this was a very good read and I’m glad that I read it!
I think it’s definitely worth the read!Even though this book was a little structurally & mentally challenging for me to read there was something about it that had me glued to those pages.
When I wasn’t reading this one, I was thinking about it.
Some parts were definitely cringeworthy, the harshness and vivid portrayal wasn’t sugarcoated.The ending is where this book lost stars from me.
I thought it was a little too dramatic and to be totally honest I wasn’t exactly sure why it ended the way it did.
Let me out!  I don't want to read this book any more.  Not quite halfway through, I guiltily add it to my scant DNF shelf.  I neither liked nor disliked the characters, and the way it was put together seemed disjointed to me. I am aware of the extensive research, time, and effort on the author's part in writing this book, and I do respect that.  As an aside, it tickled my funny bone for there to be a character by the name of Laura Lipp who never stopped talking.
I believe that the author had five aims in this book, which largely dictate its sprawling structure (one which I know a number of my Goodreads friends have criticised): to draw on her own childhood to identify the back stories of her characters and in particular the underlying circumstances that in her view underlying reasons they may have ended in jail; to draw on the stories of prisoners both male and female she met over the years; to give a realistic insiders view of life as a prisoner based on her conversations with those she befriended; to include an outside character, one tangential to the prison system so as to bring something of the outside view of the system and the prisoners in it;to consider the wider environment in which the California prison is set.
This is a strong case of "it's not you, it's me." I have tried to read and like Rachel Kushner before, back when I read The Flamethrowers when it was the it book of the season.
In the case of that book, what lingers is the description of the motorcycle crossing the salt flats, but at no point did I connect to the plot or characters.
Ron Charles fleshes this discomfort out more, and sticks to the end, but I can see that it won't serve me well to do the same.Thanks to the publisher for providing me access to the title through Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.
In normal circumstances the Californian prison system would not be a subject I would choose to read about, but I did find quite a lot to like in this book.The central story of Romy, a lap dancer and mother of a young boy, who is jailed for life for attacking a stalker she finds on her doorstep, is powerful and moving.
Her story is interleaved with the stories of many other prisoners, one member of prison staff who works as a literacy teacher, Romy's victim and Ted Kaczynski a.k.a. the Unabomber.I did feel the book tried to do too much, and by doing so lost its focus and became a little tedious and repetitive, but it does have sections I liked a lot.
I found this book structurally challenging, emotionally distant, and intentionally didactic. I’ve hit a rough patch with popular books recently, so I tried to ignore how disjointed this felt (and how disinterested I was) but in the end, it’s a 2.5 for me.
More than a week before the release of Rachel Kushner’s new novel, “The Mars Room,” the New York Times published an excerpt in a special 12-page section.
Indeed, a Times book critic followed up with a review calling “The Mars Room” “a major novel.”Which may be the problem with this bleak tale about people trapped in the American prison system.
“The Mars Room” shuffles along shackled with so much Importance that it barely has room to move.
It reads like modern noir, darkly funny but not inherently pleasant, cityscapes are harsh, grimy and drug-fuelled, and the characters morally ambiguous, cold.
If you warm to her voice and find her believable, it will probably determine if you like the book or not.
I feel strongly that  The Mars Room  is a book that matters and I hope it will have some longevity.
I found it was impossible to read The Mars Room or Vernon Subutex without feeling an enormous amount of empathy for the predicaments people faced.
Kushner gradually knits Romy’s backstory together, alternating between Romy and other characters associated with Romy, both within and outside of the prison.The sordid details of prison life are gripping, but at the same time, most of it I knew or suspected.
Romy’s life is a cautionary tale of what will happen if you are born at a disadvantage and consistently make all the wrong choices.This book made the Man Booker shortlist for 2018.
I liked it, but don’t think this is the Booker prize winner.
Not to mention a ‘stayed up all night to finish it’ compulsive read.Comparisons to Orange is the New Black (the show, not the book) are apt, but only to a point.
The novel format gives more space for examining the deep failings of the U.S. prison system, a dichotomous world not shaped to fit the complexity of individual lives:
The actual crimes committed by each character are mostly withheld until very late in the book, but readers are not let off the hook – these are violent and despicable acts.
And the life we lead is directed by choices we make and often sacrifices, which are choices in and of themselves, lead us down paths that make us feel helpless, out of control; ironic when a choice you make leads to that state of helplessness.
Rachel Kushner examines that 'control' and does so excellently in this novel.
It's not a pretty book by any means; the stories are often brutal and would make you turn away, plead ignorance in real life.
But you can't look away here and you have to grapple with these issues from an imperfect but complex set of characters.
The book reads like even Kushner wasn't sure he should be there: she kills him at the end of one chapter, then has second thoughts and he survives for one further episode.
You managed to concentrate long enough to read a whole paragraph and then there was another one, and they just kept coming."I did, however, like the bits about trees at the end that form a great link to Richard Powers' The Overstory (a book that, unlike this one, improved for me on second reading).
I found her personal stance to be understandable and un-deniable but she did not sacrifice her writing or her plot to make her point.The anchor of this sprawling story of women in prison is Romy Hall, sentenced to two consecutive life sentences for the killing of her stalker.
In all these stories, Kushner emphasises the role a lack of agency resulting from less than ideal circumstances had in the way people’s lives turns out.While I often found that these multiple perspectives worked really well, I found Doc’s character superfluous and quite grating to be spending time with.
Excellent story, excellent writing, and an excellent peak inside the vast prison industry in America, The Mars Room is told from the point of view of a few different characters.
For many of us, the only glimpse we will ever get (hopefully anyway!) of the prison industry is what we read in books or see in sitcoms and movies.
We need more stories like this, where the author makes the prisoners human again.
Anyone who loves a good story by someone who can write really well and has strong characters should love this novel.
I shall just have to read the author's other books instead and hope they are as good as this one.
If you don’t believe me, just try and remember the last time you read “Game of Thrones meets X.” The easy plug with The Mars Room is that it shares much in common with Orange is the New Black.
What’s more, Kushner chooses to focus on a few key men in The Mars Room.
From the slow erosion of prison teacher Gordon Hauser’s optimism to the heinous Kurt Kennedy, Kushner examines the men involved in the lives of these women with astonishing range.
For anyone interested in a complicated examination of the shortcomings of the American prison system, or just a damned good set of characters, The Mars Room will serve you well.
Well written on a technical level, but there is not a single thing in this novel that hasn't been covered elsewhere, for instance, on Orange Is The New Black (the show). Adding Theroux quotes didn't elevate it to anything new, IMO.
Kushner sometimes appears to try to leaven the grimness of it all with sardonic observations or by reporting the dialogue of the other weird inmates as these women are transported by bus to another prison facility.
A few chapters in, Kushner introduces the stories of other characters: Gordon Hauser, a prison educator who didn’t have the stuff for a life in academia and has turned to corrections work to pay off student loans, and Doc, a corrupt cop and the former boyfriend of a female inmate on death row.
The Mars Room by Rachel Kushner is a fictional examination of not only the prison system but of the circumstances and the people that are fed into the system.
Kushner is also the author of The Flamethrowers, which was a finalist for the National Book Award and a New York Times Top Five Novel of 2013.
The reader is taken on a journey both forward and back in time to examine Hall's life and her crime.Interjected into the story are Gordon Hauser and Rich Richards.
The Mars Room is a politically motivated novel, described in its blurb as 'a bold and unsentimental panorama of life on the margins of contemporary America, [and] an excoriating attack on the prison-industrial complex'.
When she kills him, the context is deemed irrelevant, so she's never allowed to bring up the stalking in court – nor the fact that (she says) she was trying to defend her five-year-old son – and gets two life sentences.Romy's backstory is interspersed with other viewpoints.
It might seem particularly harsh to say this in the context of something like The Mars Room, which aims to draw attention to real issues.
In the opening pages of The Mars Room, we are introduced to Romy Hall, and things are not going well for her, to put it mildly.
We also follow the stories of Sammy, her best pal in this hellhole, Gordon, a teacher who takes a shine to Romy, and Doc, a crooked cop who is trying to keep a low profile in a separate prison.
Romy hasn't got much going for herself right now, but she battles on in the faint hope of making contact with her son one day.The first few chapters of this novel intrigued me, but the story just didn't take this set-up in an interesting or original direction.
