https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35167685-surely-you-re-joking-mr-feynman
This book of anecdotes is written in a very casual, fun way that makes it easy to read.
The problem is that the author, Nobel-Prize-winning physicist Dick Feynman, is annoying.
All the anecdotes involve him discovering a hidden talent, using it, delighting others (or himself if that's his real goal) and then being applauded for it (sometimes only by himself).
For example, he discovers that he's a great artist, musician, safecracker, and critic.
A few stories like this and it's quirky but piled on top of each other, it's annoying.I can't really recommend this book.
Feynman gave an amazingly human and honest view into his philosophy and take on life, thought a series of stories.One thing that struck me most deeply was his passion for learning new things.
You would think a world-famous Physicist would just be passionate for Physics - but Feynman was curious about everything he saw.
I think I need a new hobby :)I really enjoyed his lessons learned from observing the Brazilian educational system.
I think this is not a unique problem in education.Another lesson learned from Feynman's studies of science is to never take any data for granted.
I think Feynman was in his heart a true educator and scientist, with real integrity.
Hadn't thought a Nobel pprize-winning physicist could be so fun loving & down-to-earth. He was a man ahead of his time when it came to many things -- & of his time when it came to his ideas about 'pretty girls' (as he calls women). The audiobook reader did a great job, but what a shame Feynman didn't read it himself before he passed on...
“Would you like cream or lemon in your tea, Mr. Feynman?” It’s Mrs. Eisenhart, pouring tea.“I’ll have both, thank you,” I say, still looking for where I’m going to sit, when suddenly I hear “Heh-heh-heh-heh-heh. Surely you’re joking, Mr. Feynman.” The title of this collection comes from a tale that took place early in Feynman's career where he was invited for an afternoon tea with the dean of his university. The dean's wife is serving and asks him the above question. Richard never drinks tea an
The title of this collection comes from a tale that took place early in Feynman's career where he was invited for an afternoon tea with the dean of his university.
A big theme of these stories and indeed a running theme in Feynman's life is that he had no time for formalisms, rituals or societal views.
The collection reads as if you had somehow run into Feynman in a seedy bar in 1960s Vegas (there's a story about this time) waiting for a showgirl to finish work.
Reading these stories you come to realise that Feynman was quite the womaniser.
It's their mistake, not my failing.” ― Richard Feynman, Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!I've been circling this book, The Feynman Lectures on Physics, and Gleck's Genius: The Life and Science of Richard Feynman for awhile.
But, for the most part, he seemed much more interested in the stories he wanted to tell, rather than on how they would make him look.
His entire life was built around doing what he wanted, exploring what he found interesting, violating taboos, beating his own drums and cutting his own path.
Nearly everything is really interesting if you go into it deeply enough."(Video Review) The story of Feynman changed fundamentally, what I think about the world around me.The story of Richard and his father helped me to understand, that many parents could help their children to a more fulfilling life.
You rarely have a chance to meet pedagogues who can help you fall in love with learning and set the fire of science in you, as Feynman did.This book is not only interesting for physicists and scientists, but also for parents and pedagogues who want to inspire their children, students to have a better life.
Well, when that happens in real life, you always want to join in; here's my personal best effort at a Feynman-type anecdote.
I hope it's now far enough in the past that the people concerned will see the funny side, if they happen to stumble across this page by accident!STAR TREK AND THE PERSONAL SATELLITE ASSISTANTIt was early 2000, and I had just started working at NASA Ames Research Center in California.
The guy whose idea it was had started up the group, recruited me and two other people, and then left to join Microsoft Research before I'd even arrived.
His colleagues at Cornell were vastly amused by this.)What I love about Feynman -- first of all, his great interest in everything and his willingness to experiment.
The great joy he found in working things through (he said that the reason he'd never tried drugs, though he was tempted, was that he enjoyed thinking too much and didn't want to risk that.) Also, he's clearly so very intelligent and reading his book, his thoughts seem so easy to follow -- it makes the world of science seem accessible.
I'll never make that mistake again, reading the experts' opinions. Of course, you only live one life, and you make all your mistakes, and learn what not to do, and that's the end of you. I can usually tell when I’m going to give a book 5 stars by one sign: I can’t shut up about it. Well, I couldn’t and can’t shut up about this book; it was simply great. This greatness sort of snuck up on me. I’d recently read a collection of anecdotes by a scientist (A Primate’s Memoir) and found it rather disa
Plus, the whole idea of reading a book of stories about a great physicist, without learning any actual physics, seemed silly.
This realization, that most people are inclined to trust claims from authority, is integral to his almost supernatural ability to navigate unfamiliar situations; Feynman is so easily able to bluff his way through because people take his word for things.
Well, perhaps it is; but the only way you’ll know for sure is by reading this book, and checking for yourself.
It probably didn’t feature as much pure science as most of his other books, but at least you could appreciate his intuition into the physical world’s biggest puzzles.
He mentioned the “Feynman Effect”: a phenomenon whereby someone asking him a question got answered in such a clear and intuitive way that it was only later that they realized they still didn’t know exactly how it all tied to their existing understanding.So, count me as a fan of his scientific contributions and his ability to communicate, but not of his swagger.
I suppose it's a memoir, and I don't know if it's ghost written or not, but what was supposed to endear me to Mr Feynman made him revolting to me.
According to this book, he treated other people like dirt and thought it was hilarious, he correlated pure intelligence with worth, and he dismissed and disrespected everyone who he felt was not as intellectual as he was (and being that he was a genius, that was most of everybody).
This amusing little book of anecdotes had an alarmingly influential role in my life.
It convinced me of the odd notion that it would be a good idea to go to Caltech and major in physics.
I wish I had realized all this when I was 17 rather than 24, but all is not lost: physics is wonderful training for all manner of mathematical disciplines, and all has worked out for the best.
I retain a deep fondness for this book, and rereading old passages brings me comfort.
All will work out for the best for you too.
A few times, Feynman would relate some post-WWII anecdote, only to jump back to something that happened during his time at Los Alamos in the early 1940s.
It gives the book a very disjointed quality.On a more personal level, Feynman just doesn't strike me as someone you'd want to spend time with.
About 30% of his stories talk about a time he pulled a fast one on somebody, or how he did something arrogant and obnoxious and it developed into an incident.
Feynman's scientific accomplishments may be beyond reproach, but I doubt I'll spend any more time with his memoirs.
Un uomo indubbiamente intelligente, curioso, entusiasta del mondo della tecnica e della scienza.In questo libro racconta tramite aneddoti la sua vita, fatta di studi importanti (uno per tutti la partecipazione allo sviluppo della bomba atomica a Los Alamos) ma anche di episodi curiosi o apparentemente insignificanti.Purtroppo non è sufficiente essere intelligenti per scrivere bene.
Non basta essere curiosi per incuriosire.
Credersi amabili non ci rende simpatici per forza.
E non è detto che parlare di fisica in modo “facile” significhi divulgare e interessare.Forse Feynman parla troppo di sé, o semplicemente di quanto è tanto bravo e intelligente.
He never lost that childlike sense of wonder or mischief.My only caveat - Mr. Feyman was quite the ladies' man, and there is a certain old-school misogyny in his style of writing about women.
It doesn't make him any less of an amazing physicist, but it does remind us that he was mortal too.And after reading all of his memoirs, I began to suspect that his cavalier attitude towards women arose at least in part from his grief at the loss of his first wife, who died of cancer at a very young age (her early 20s, if I remember correctly), while he was busy working on the nuclear bomb in Los Alamos.
The Nobel prize winning physicist, acclaimed drummer, artist, expert on Mayan astronomy, safecracker, prankster, etc, etc, tells “crazy adventures” of his life.
They’re really not “crazy adventures,” these anecdotes; my own father's are easily just as rich and bizarre.
He was just the kind of jerk who, caught up in his criticism of others’ inability to grasp his broad points, never begins to wonder whether he is the one missing the gist.
In all, funny and interesting at times (at Los Alamos, on a committee to select school text books), but mainly kind of mundane.
Brilliant, inspirational and very funny!
There can be no argument that Richard P Feynman was a genius.
Feynman was always so full of life and he was curious about absolutely everything from a very early age.
For example, witnessing the bongo-playing in Brazil inspired him to learn to play like that and not like some studio-taught purist.
He achieved it through dedication to his objective and sheer passion.What made Feynman a genius?
That is TRUE genius.I have read this book many times.
You really need to read this book.
Noble laureate physicist Hans Bethe বলেছিলেন, "দুই রকমের জিনিযাস আছেন। সাধারণ জিনিযাসেরা মহান সব কাজ করে থাকেন, কিনতু সবসমযেই এটা চিনতা করার সুযোগ থেকে যায যে, যথেষট পরিমাণে খাটলে আপনিও বুঝি ওটা করতে পারতেন। আরেকরকমের জিনিযাস অনেকটা যাদুকরের মতন, আপনি কিছুতেই ভেবে উঠতে পারবেন না, তারা সেটা কিভাবে করল। ফাইনমযান ছিলেন একজন যাদুকরী জিনিযাস। "সেই যাদুকরের সাথে পরিচয় মিলল এই বইয়ে। রিচারড ফাইনমযান একজন নোবেল বিজয়ী পদারথবিদ বললে আসলে তার সমপরকে যেন কিছুই বলা হল না।একজন পদারথবিদ পরিচয়ের পাশাপাশি তার আরও

This is the manual of curiosity and intelligence by the great physicist -- Richard Feynman.
An incredible life of one of the prodigious thinkers is summarized in less than 400 pages.
I would not have put it down even if the book was 4000 pages long, so interesting is the story, a real page-turner.Apparently, by not taking life so seriously Dr. Feynman achieved some remarkably serious things which led to Nobel prize, and other remarkable accomplishments.
How many other Nobel prize laureates have safe cracking as a hobby?
The book is not just an entertaining story about an extraordinary life.
Feynman, by his life, proved the point.
Richard Feynman u ovoj knjizi ne piše o kvantnoj elektrodinamici, polju u kojemu je dao najveći doprinos fizici.
Feynman ovdje piše o nekim njemu najzanimljivijim događajima iz života koji su zabavni za ispričati.
Feynman je sudjelovao i u razvoju atomske bombe, dok je istovremeno pokušavao provaliti u sef jednog od vojnih zapovjednika - ne zato da bi nešto ukrao iz sefa, nego samo zato, jer su mu rekli da je taj sef nemoguće obiti.
Nakon čitanja knjige čini mi se da sam barem malo i upoznao samog Richarda Feynmana.
This is a captivating story of an amazing life that could not have been better had it been scripted at birth.Mr. Feynman has done it all.
From his early life, to his work on the atomic bomb, to his ability to crack safes, I could not help but admire his chutzpah and proven success.
Therefore, on behalf of nerds everywhere, you are our hero!He, like Robert Todd Lincoln, was always lucky enough to be at the right place at the right time in history.
Truly, there are not enough adjectives to describe his amazing talents, admirable life, and impressive success.
Before I read this engaging memoir, I knew him as Richard Phillips Feynman, one of the greatest physicists that ever lived. Henceforth, this name will evoke images of a prankster, a musician, a safe cracker, a biologist, a Brazilian band member, an artist who visited several brothels to sell his painting and a man who refused to grow old. These anecdotes from his life are sure to tickle your funny bone.
همیشه نگران این موضوع بودم که یک مرد نازک نارنجی باشم و نمی خواستم خیلی حساس و نازک بین جلوه کنم.
از نظر من، یک مرد واقعی هرگز به شعر و امثال آن توجهی نمی کرد.
بنابراین نسبت به آدم هایی که ادبیات فرانسه می خواندند یا به موسیقی و شعر می پرداختند یا به نوعی با این کارهای ظریف سر و کار داشتند، گرایشی منفی پیدا کردم.
همیشه فکر می کردم آدمی که در یک کارگاه کار می کند می تواند وسایل زیادی بسازد و او یک آدم واقعی است.
به اعتقاد من اهل عمل بودن همواره فضیلت محسوب می شد.
This was disappointing, because I've been wanting to read this for a while because he is so renown for being quite the hilarious character as well as a Nobel prize-winning physicist.
This is a collection of essays that serves as a memoir; many are not directly related to physics, but that's definitely the theme.
After reading this, my conclusion is that Feynman was mostly a world class knob.
He lost me fairly early into it, when he described how you could see physics in action in the everyday world by messing with a waitress's tips.
How very droll of you, Mr. Feynman.
I love this book so much. I really want to give it 6/5. I read and re-read it often, and Feynman is one of my personal top heroes.
To follow your dreams, make them happen, make a living out of them, ultimately all this work to be of help for others and above all to enjoy life as you wish to - this is what I call to live your life to the fullest!
They are not just funny - they present a man which desire to learn was his motto in life (he owes this desire to his father, a very remarkable man).
. It is a shorter version of his memoirs presented in the book and the following fragment is a part of it: People say to me, “Are you looking for the ultimate laws of physics?” No I am not.
What if a regular guy from Coney Island was a genius. He'd be Richard Feynman. In this autobiography, Feynman goes over his adventures growing up in NYC, at MIT, Princeton, Cornell, Caltech and other locales. He writes in a down to earth style of a wise guy who revolutionized Quantum Field Theory. The book doesn't go much into his physics but his experiences as a prankster and tinkerer and safecracker and adventurer as he goes from one episode to another. Interesting guy.
O tom, ako:1) vykrádať sejfy2) baliť baby v bare3) konštruovať atómové bomby4) pozerať na svet otvor
After some discussion as to what "essential object" meant, the professor leading the seminar said something meant to clarify things and drew something that looked like lightning bolts on the blackboard.
'Essential object' means the idea in the mind that you get when you think of bricks." Another guy got up, and another, and I tell you I have never heard such ingenious different ways of looking at a brick before.[image error]Now, did I mention the book gets hilarious at moments?
Then he gave me another one: "You go to a temple, and you want to look at the gardens..." I made up a sentence, this time with the polite "see." "No, no!" he said.
Physics is like sex!Today we will talk about a scientist who was an extraordinary man, known as a teacher, lover, master safe cracker (who stole papers of Manhattan Project), fan of Las Vegas’s strip clubs, exceptional liar, musician, artist and probably the most brilliant, influential, and iconoclastic figure in his field in the post-World War II era.How does one define a role model?
