https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29059.Choke
After that it just gets worse and worse."I always feel a little stupid reviewing a Chuck Palahniuk book.
How can you review a book like that?
If you like it, you're an idiot who's too easily amused, and if you hate it, Chuck Palahniuk is just laughing at you, going, "Dude, I told you." You can't win.
Chuck Palahniuk seems like the type of author who thrives on negative responses.
Chuck Palahniuk is that kid on the playground who dug up bugs and shoved them in girls' faces just to see them run away screaming.
I liked this book because I was supposed to hate it.
"There is no human soul, and I am absolutely for sure seriously not going to fucking cry."reading a chuck palahniuk novel is like one of those long booze-soaked all-night discussions with someone you've just met.
his books all share similar themes, but i find this to be at the top of the list.
this one has the same sort of alternating hopelessness and hopefulness that fight club has, and similar fucked up antihero characters.
«Το μαρτύριο του Εγώ»Αυτοπαθές, Παράδοξο, Αυτούσιο, Ηδονικά Σοκαριστικό ....δεν είναι οι κατάλληλες λέξεις, αλλά είναι οι πρώτες που μου έρχονται στο μυαλό...!Ο «Πνιγμός» είναι μια αποκήρυξη της ένδοξης αποτυχίας του σύγχρονου ανθρώπου.
Το βιβλίο πραγματεύεται την αναζήτηση της ευτυχίας μέσα απο την σοκαριστική παραγματικότητα και ασχολείται με τον εθισμό σε όλα τα εγκλήματα ηδονής.
Αυτό το «φρικτό» βιβλίο, δεν ειναι η κατάλληλη λέξη, αλλά είναι η πρώτη που μου έρχεται στο μυαλό,είναι εξαιρετικά τολμηρό, άκομψο, χονδροειδές, έντονα γραφικό και παράλογα δημιουργικό,φυλακισμένο σε μια πολυπλοκότητα περίεργη, παράλογη και αριστουργηματική.
Αριστοτεχνικά γραμμένο σε πρώτο πρόσωπο και παροντικό χρόνο καθιστά τον συγγραφέα «σπουδαίο», δεν είναι η κατάλληλη λέξη, αλλά είναι η πρώτη που μου έρχεται στο μυαλό.
There are some great messages in Chuck's books, some are less obvious, some are hidden completely, some are in your face, and some are crammed down your throat.
What I always take from Chuck's work is the feeling of "get off your butt and do something!"Those who pay attention to my reviews know that I have a pretty short attention span, and tend to enjoy the faster paced books.
He meets Dr. Marsall who he has tried to sleep with, but can't.I really enjoyed Victor's relationship with Denny.
Just look what happened to Shyamalan when he wanted to tell a good story, just without a twist.
He's a good writer and story teller, but people now want only one thing from him: a Fight Club-esque twist.
Then, each of his characters must have a "thing." A quirk, something unusual that they do, that actually has nothing to do with the story.
It's great when it happens every once in a while...but when every Palahniuk character does this, all the time...it just seems silly.
The book is a Diary of a character reading another diary.
I deleted this review. It was old and inflammatory, and I just don't want to talk about Chuck Palahniuk in 2012. Argue somewhere else, guys. Happy reading.
Many themes in this book were enjoyable even if many of them were unlikely.
The main character works at a medieval theme park and spends nights pretending to need the Heimlich maneuver because he claims that someone that saves your life has a need to continue taking care of you.
I most enjoyed the part where stones are beginning to fill the house and one character mentions that it feels as though they are living in the bottom portion of an hourglass; I believe this is an important commentary about hoarding in America and the American perception of possessions.
I've been told time and again by friends I otherwise respect to read Chuck Palahniuk.
I haven't lost faith in Palahniuk and will probably read something else by him, but this was not the book to convince me of his genius.
As a result, the entire book comes off as a mouthpiece for Palahniuk's eccentricities.
But Palahniuk lets the ball drop and the novel itself comes off as one prolonged attempt at a joke.
Otherwise, do what I probably should have done, and let your first Palahniuk book come with a different title.NC
It is disgusting, it is frightening, and generally feels unpleasant for everyone involved.That's why I can't really view the plot of "Choke" as being all that credible these days.
The notion of any one mother having as many quirky ticks as his did wasn't a sell.
There was a certain point in each novel where I cried foul and couldn't get back into the setting.So much of "Choke" is like that, which is why I don't understand how it's the favorite of so many Palahniuk fans.
So many things I didn't like about the book...here's a few in list format!1.
I never gave a shit about one single person in this book.
It's the most descriptive and comprehensive chapter in the book, and I can't figure out how it has anything at all to do w/ the plot.
I wouldn't be surprised if he wrote this chapter 5 years before even thinking about the plot of this book, and didn't know what else to do with it, so he just stuck it in there.
"Μπορούμε να περάσουμε τη ζωή μας ολόκληρη αφήνοντας τον κόσμο να μας υπαγορεύει ποιοι είμαστε. Τρελοί ή λογικοί. Άγιοι ή σεξομανεις. Ήρωες ή θύματα. Να αφήσουμε την ιστορία να αποφασίσει πόσο καλοί ή κακοί είμαστε. Να αφήσουμε το παρελθόν μας να καθορίζει το μέλλον μας. Ή μπορούμε να αποφασίσουμε μόνοι μας."
So much better than 'Fight Club.' It's not as grotesque, but it's much more, oh, I don't know, how can I put this...
fucked up.
It's one those books that don't make any sense at all while you're reading it.
But at the end of the novel, everything, everything comes together and it all makes sense.
Plus, you will get one the most insane mind-fucks of all time IF you make it to the end.
It was the last book to make gasp out loud and scream out, 'Holy shit!
Did that just happen?!?!' I wish I wasn't in church when I finished the book.
Το βιβλιο αυτο λοιπον μιλα για...δεν ειμαι τοσο σιγουρη τελικα.ξεκινα απο τη σκιαγραφηση ενος περα για περα προβληματικου χαρακτηρα και θιγει ενα σωρο πραγματα και θεματα κοινωνικα "εμπλουτισμενα" με πολλη βωμολοχία και σεξ..στα σημεια που ελεγα οτι , ναι, τελικα μου αρεσει αυτο το βιβλιο, ερχοταν ενα τελειως κουλο κεφαλαιο που με πεταγε εκτος . μου αρεσε οταν εθιγε καποια θεματα ψυχολογικα ή κοινωνικα ακομη και με ωμο ρεαλισμο, ωστοσο αυτο δεν ηταν αρκετο.η βαθμολογια μου ειναι καπου στη μεση μεταξυ καλου και κακου..
I just couldn't do it!
I could not read this drivel.
It's not subversive.
It's not funny.
It's not interesting.
It's not shocking.
It is juvenile.Franzen's The Corrections, Roth's Portnoy's Complaint, and BBE's American Phycho are not in my favorites by any stretch of the imagination...but at least these three have ideas and can actually write even if I didn't want to read what they were writing about.And PLEASE don't compare this guy to the genius who was Kurt Vonnegut!
Just don't even go there.If you think it's funny when an adult says the word "bugger" you might like this book.
Do I need to worry about the fact that not only did it not make me sick, but I actually loved it?
Do I need to worry about the fact that I felt my blood boiling (in a good way) with every word that was coming out of the mouth of the hero's mother?
Maybe one day I'll change radically and my blood will remain cool when I read such books.
Maybe one day I'll be over those nihilistic witticisms on modern society and I'll simply laugh at them every time I come across them.
This was my first introduction to Chuck Palahnuik.
Odd, off kilter views of a world which most people never really think about generated out of the random scenario sequence generator:sex addicts + pioneer town historic re-enactment + god complex mum + choking = viable income for main character plus story.Umm I think I just summarised the plot there.
Still not entirely convinced how choking in public places generates a decent yearly income though...
All I can say is that no matter what the net choke income is per annum, it's probably still more than I earn as an archaeologist!
But what he does do - extremely well - is tell short, interesting, and often funny anecdotes that are nearly all based on real, actual events that happen to people every day, and that is not something to be taken lightly.
The story about the girl who wants to be mock-raped, and her continual frustration at her partner's inability to "do it right" is fantastically funny, and their "masturbation race" at the end made it a little difficult to not laugh when I went back to work.
(In fact, most of the book centers around sex, in lots of extremely perverse ways.
this is actually a very strange yet disturbingly profound book.Short Summary: Our title character is a sex addict who fakes choking in restaurants to make people feel like heroes...
We swap between the current day and his childhood, or actually his memories of his childhood which are told with a bitterness not toward his mentally unstable mother, but toward himself.Victor is filled with a deep rooted self loathing that comes across clearly to the reader, however he constantly defends his actions and feelings but his defense is hollow.
Εγώ θέλω να με έχουν ανάγκη.Εγώ θέλω να είμαι απαραίτητοςΚάποιον που να είναι εθισμένος σε μένα. Έναν αμοιβαίο εθισμό.Σήμερα όλος ο κόσμος έχει παραισθήσεις.Πέφτουν πέτρες και το έδαφος σείεται.Το μαρτύριο του Αγίου Εγώ.Μπορούμε να περάσουμε τη ζωή μας ολόκληρη αφήνοντας τον κόσμο να μας υπαγορεύει ποιοι είμαστε. Τρελοί ή λογικοί. Άγιοι ή σεξομανεις. Ήρωες ή θύματα.Ή μπορούμε να αποφασίζουμε μόνοι μας. Οι παλαβοί του καιρού μας που προσπαθούμε να εδραιώσουμε τη δική μας εναλλακτική πραγματικότητα.
I remember when my College professor of ethics and aesthetics commanded us to read the short story "Guts" of Chuck Palahniuk.
;) http://chuckpalahniuk.net/features/sh...Spanish version: Asfixia es uno de esos libros que te marcan de por vida.
Pero después de leerlos me pareció que ese autor que hasta ese momento había sido desconocido para mí tenía una forma de contar las cosas increíblemente visceral y cruel, lejos de los prototipos y tal y como la mayoría de veces es la vida.
Recomiendo este libro y este autor a todos los lectores, y por supuesto, os reto a todos a que leáis los relatos de "Tripas", os dejo aquí el link!
Dieci volte su dieci, l'uomo che pronuncia quelle parole intende dire: amo quello che stiamo facendo.»Il suo amico di sventure, Denny, vive nel suo strampalato mondo dove tutto ha una logica, alla disperata ricerca di un progetto da realizzare..In un film verrebbe definito come la "spalla" del protagonista, in realtà alla fine della storia, anche il suo ruolo si inverte.
Non mi va di essere il centro del mio universo.»La madre di Victor, una donna che vive da anni in un nichilismo cosmico, e che ha cresciuto il figlio impartendogli regole di sopravvivenza dalla validità assoluta:«-L'unica frontiera che ci rimane è il mondo dell'intangibile.

Once again, Palahniuk provides perfect social commentary. Essential to understanding America and ourselves, Choke invites you to consider your life holistically, question what you know, and examine the quotidian anew. In addition, Palahniuk challenges us to find the best of ourselves, to focus less on "Saint Me," and to experience fully those near-life experiences he documents so well in Fight Club. Another marvel, another marvel.
" Ύστερα ανοίγει την τηλεόραση, μια σαπουνόπερα, ξέρετε, αληθινοί άνθρωποι που προσποιούνται πως είναι ψεύτικοι άνθρωποι με επινοημένα προβλήματα, τους οποίους παρακολουθούν αληθινοί άνθρωποι για να ξεχάσουν τ' αληθινά τους προβλήματα"_________"Λέει: Έχεις κάνα νέο απτον γιο μου τον Βίκτορ; Τον θυμάσαι;Εγώ είμαι ο Βίκτορ.Σταματάω. Αισθάνομαι έναν πόνο στην καρδιά μου, αλλά έχω ξεχάσει τι σημαίνει αυτό το συναίσθημα""Η μητρότητα είναι το όπιο του λαού"Ο συγγραφέας του Fight Club κανιβαλίζει ο,τι
Αποδομεί θεούς και δαίμονες, πεποιθήσεις που τις είχες βαθιά ριζωμένες ως να πέσει στα χέρια σου αυτό το γεμάτο αφορισμούς αιρετικό βιβλίο.[Ο Βικτορ είναι γιατρός, παρακολουθεί συνεδρίες σεξομανών με 12 βήματα απεξάρτησης (απ' τα οποια κυρίως παιρνει ιδέες και βρίσκει νυμφομανείς συντρόφους) έχει κολλήσει στο τέταρτο βήμα όπου πρέπει να καταγράψει από που ξεκίνησαν όλα (γιατί τελικά λίγη σημασία έχει, έτσι δεν είναι;) Εργάζεται σ΄ένα γελοίο θεματικό πάρκο του 18ου αιώνα, η μαμά του βρίσκεται σε ίδρυμα γιατί ξεχνάει να καταπίνει · ο ίδιος πηγαίνει κάθε τόσο σε κάποιο εστιατόριο - διαφορετικό κάθε φορά- και πνίγεται στ' αλήθεια με φαγητό για να του κεράσουν τη μερίδα και να κάνει τους άλλους ήρωες και σπόνσορές του για το υπόλοιπο της τρισάθλιας ζωής του.
But instead of all that, I just lied to Miss Lacey and said, "How can I reach you?" I tell the fourth-graders that they call it cancer because when the cancer starts growing inside you, when it breaks through your skin, it looks like a big red crab.
A dozen hands go up, and I tell them, "Ask your teacher." What a frigging job that must've been, shaving those poor mice.
It's about sexual addiction, Jesus complexes, and doing something GOOD with your life instead of just not doing bad things.
Even the blurb sounds like..
well it sounds like a Palahniuk novel.
He hopes to find out who is his real dad while his mother is still alive, and he meets a pretty doctor who just might be able to help him out.
I think the brilliance in Palahniuk's books is that while the prose is rather simple, often vulgar and incredibly witty, dictating and insane pace he is still able to craft a meaningful story with nicely fleshed out characters.
He's still able to tell the reader some valuable things about addiction, perversions, the complexity of parent-child relationships, loneliness, the hypocrisy of our society and about how it feels when one's life doesn't turn out as expected.
Victor spends his days working as an indentured servant in Colonial America.
He spends his nights rotating between attending sex addicts anonymous and faking his own untimely demise by choking in high-end restaurants.
Once saved, Victor then maintains contact with said rescuers in the hopes that they will send him enough money to cover his mother’s monthly nursing home bill.
Chuck Palahniuk is a very polarizing figure in modern day literature – you either love him or hate him.
His brain works in such mysterious ways that a synopsis is the only safe bet to prevent spoilage of his masterpiece.
Chuck Palahniuk is one of the four authors listed as my biggest influences on my author page, the other three being Stephen King, William Shakespeare and Bret Easton Ellis.
Like Fight Club, and Chuck Palahniuk’s other works, Choke contains numerous very quotable and sometimes quite devastating lines.“At some point, your memories, your stories, your adventures, will be the only things you'll have left.” While Choke may not have been as obvious an influence on Drug Gang as Fight Club was, the style, tone and content of Chuck Palahniuk’s writing in Choke still had its effect on me prior to starting work on The Drug Gang Series.
It affected me both as an author and as a person, as his writing always does.Choke is a dark, witty and intelligent work of genius.
Man am I late to the Palahniuk party, geez.
This book was amazing, his writing impeccable.
To review a book that's starts with this:"If you're going to read this, don't bother.
I mean have you ever heard of someone going to restaurants and purposely choking on food so someone could save them and then play off of their personally remarkable experience by hitting them up for money to help support himself and pay for his mother's medical bills?
Definitely a good introduction to Palahniuk."Masterpiece" isn't the right word, but it's the first word that comes to mind.
Choke is not drastically different from Palahniuk’s earlier (and better) novel, Fight Club.
In Fight Club the primary metaphoric device was underground street fighting.
The problem is, the combination of his fragmented writing style and the bizarreness of his scenes result in a mess that is more frustrating to the reader than intriguing.Author also loves to create metaphors and revisit them throughout the story.
Much like the “I am Jack’s raging bile duct” from Fight Club, here it is the hourly bird calls from an alarm clock in his “mother’s” extended care bedroom, or medical school mnemonics, or various other rhetorical devices.
It’s not surprising that Palahniuk has moved on from this limited genre.
