https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/789824.How_it_Is
Based on all the 5 ⭐ reviews I’m going to say this is a case of its me not you but I really did not enjoy this one.
Based on all the 5 ⭐️ reviews I’m going to say this is a case of its me not you but I really did not enjoy this one.
The 7th Beckett novel that I've read and similar to his The Unnamable (3 stars), this has no plot and told in first-person narrative.
I do not even know what's the meaning of "Pim." If it is a person that the narrator meets in Part I and loses in Part II and then in Part III there is no mention of him and the mud but the mood of the narration is still sad, bleak and lonely.
You trying reading this short (compared to Murphy or Watt) novel and you will appreciate how beautiful this work is.Beckett is just uncomparable.
My favorite Beckett.
This is a must-read, but not easy by any means.
This novel doesn't have punctuation.
It may or may not have characters.
Setting: mud.
Props: sacks with a few things in them.
This book is life-changing, and I feel it to be one of the best articulations of human cruelty in existence.
An amazing glimpse, one might argue, into Beckett's ethics.
Does really interesting stuff with notions of authorial voice/presence/conception of time.
If he would have published it as a poem, he could have gotten away with it.
Will break your heart and temporarily ruin your life.
A good book to obsess on.
Novels narrated by various tersely named men (real or imagined) crawling through the mud (of their memories [and literal mud (perhaps)]) tend to lapse into screaming cliché. This is one of the better efforts.
The 'degree zero' of literature: narrative turned inward, generative and cyclical. Wherein character is dissolved into flux and drama is nothing more than its own begetting, the "slow translation from west to east", the double movement of self-extinguishment and self-resuscitation. How it has been, how it always will be, how it is.
Delirmek gibi bir deneyim oldu bu kitap benim için. Ha it ha çek on kelime on beş kelime ha it ha çek ileri geri okumak bakmak boşluğa ha it ha çek soruları cevapla yeni sorular sor ha it ha çek tekrar tekrar tekrar oku aynı cümleyi hangi cümleyi burada cümle falan yok burada dedim cümle falan yok
Moreover, his thoughts are often [or almost entirely] incoherent, they are muddled, they too are formless, like the mud.I’m not, of course, positioning myself as an authority on the novel, for there were certainly aspects of it that passed me by [not least Beckett’s own explanation, which makes precious little sense to me]; for example, I can’t satisfactorily explain, and feel no real desire to attempt to satisfactorily explain, what is going on with the man and the voice, i.e. what he means when he says ‘I say it as I hear it’ as though there is a kind of distance or disconnect between the two I’s, the mental and physical.
One of my favorite books ever.
It's a poetic, punctuation-free, bleak and humorous three-part piece about one's past, present, and future selves.
There's no story per se; it's more like an existential essay.
I sped through the book nine years ago, but this past week I read most of it aloud, measuring phrases and writing in the margins.
There are dead ends, revelations, repetitions, and lucent calculations, all in the name of storytelling about being.
I'm happy to have found, purchased, and marked up a first edition Grove Press paperback copy, which I'll return to whenever I need to refresh the panting present.
Let's see, Beckett was a fan of James Joyce.
Perhaps this book isn't the best for starting with Beckett's work.
Perhaps Joyce is just in a league of his own, causing folks to emulate his style in a myriad of ways.
Maybe I should read more of Beckett and come back to this?
Maybe a library copy isn't the best way to read this?
I thought it was reincarnation.
There's no tin with reincarnation.
So why can't I stop thinking about this book?For now, I'll go with a neutral 3 stars 'cause I just don't know what to think!
I think it could go well with illustrations by Francis Bacon.A kind of coda to the trilogy, how it is picks up where the Unnamable left off.
Beckett was always looking to undermine his own strengths, and so perhaps it's fitting he would follow up one of the most virtuoso comma performances in all literature by completely dropping the mark.A good part of the tension and suspense of the trilogy comes from Beckett pushing against the traditional form of the novel.
Beckett's later vanguard texts do have their defenders.
No less an authority than the estimable William Gass is on record calling how it is his favorite work by Beckett.
Would you like to destroy your mind? Y/NYOK, read this book in one sitting.
Beckett's hell, however, always feels--and this novel is not, in that, new ground for the author--more like life in stasis that the dead souls in stasis of Dante's medieval Christian epic.
As in Beckett's system, there's an intimation of an infinity that can never be completed as one must begin and end somewhere always leaving off a key rhyme at the end and a middle rhyme at the beginning of each new section or a tormentor and a victim at either end of his phalanx of mud wallowers.
Ainoa mahdollinen vastaus kysymykseen "mitä The Unnameablen jälkeen voi enää tehdä". Täysin käsittämätön (mutta hyvällä tavalla; esim. Wake, Stein ja muut nahkasiivet) ja hemmetin koskettava: "those dragging on in front those dragging on behind whose lot has been whose lot will be what your lot is endless cortége of sacks burst in the interest of all" ahhhhhhh näin on
Or, is this his encomium to life that remains?
Even a life in the gutter grasping for illusions of belonging?
over and over I pondered this trite and banal critique on life.
And so I read and read looking for something to materialize while I heal into the new "it is." The 'how' preface in Beckett intrigued me - could he show the way?
That I did wake, again, albeit missing parts and in dire ICU condition is something to explore, those days/hours of frantic struggle and hopeless giving over to what it was or the now new is, IS just as strange as Beckett's novel - maybe that's why, how it is, with me.
If you know Beckett then you know the "oh, no" feeling of his uncompromising marriage of the bleak with the sarcastic; shoulders sink with the "here we go again".
I found myself - not reading it aloud so much, as being compelled by that voice to get it out of my throat: each time I read "murmur" I spewed each syllable from one side of the mouth, the other half pursed: I was a Beckett character and after the book was finished I felt exhausted for days.
The most "moving" of all the Beckett novels I've read. The use of a set vernacular over and over was effective, even though I don't think I really understood it. The idea that a bunch of men crawling through the mud, stabbing each other in the ass could become a system of communication was really funny. It did get a little sluggish at points, particularly in the first section.
One of the better mud-based narratives to come out of 20th century irish culture
Its good to know I'm not the only one who finds the idea of eating food out of cans weird.
Some books just seem designed to make you feel obtuse.
I tend to start off feeling like it's probably just me.
I start off assuming that the book is probably better than I feel it is, because I don't get it, and that might mean the deficiency is in me.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
this is a despairing tale of human nature that beckett told in fragmentary anti-narrative(s). this is the first beckett novel i have read, and it's distracting, difficult, but powerful where the anti-narrative format holds the situational problem of communication breakdown. betrayal, loneliness, and misfortune are its main characters which show the frailty in human nature. and, it's hard to carry on but worth it.
Odd thoughts pieced together in the loosest sense.
Because it's on the LIST, and I'm not dead yet.
One must seek to read carefully, to hear as it is said, as it is heard.
The text does not tell of a past, present, and future.
But the voice tells us that what came before did not come before; it never was.
All that is is what is currently being said or heard or read.
All that is is the voice, the words, telling.The characters are all a fiction.
All there is is the voice, telling of a life.
It is the voice that is heard when the panting stops, for it tells the life and makes the life happen.
bir odada bir deli*dehşetli uzun zaman parçaları*başka bir şey bulmak varoluşu biraz daha sürdürmek için sorular bulmak kimdi onlar nasıl varlıklardı dünyanın neresindeydiler bu tür şeyler işte bu kuklalar gösterisini kim düzenliyor hiçbir anlamı yok git bir şeyler ye*----çığlıkları içmek istiyordum mavi vahşi gölge yumrukların üzerine eğilmiş----*dünyanın ucuna uzanırdım böylece dizlerimin üzerinde dünyanın çevresini dolaşırdım*kiminle ilgili yumuyorum gözlerimi
The grunt of a pig is more intelligible! Beckett at his worst. I regretted buying this book, and at a very high price too, from one of those 'intellegensia bookshop'. Utter bullshit, you can't retain a single idea, line, whatever. And some people of course would say 'wow' for no reason. Snobs! Empty interjections.
Beckett is so tapped in and so alien at the same time that I'm starting to be convinced that he's the result of some pure spirit or form of literature injecting itself into a human husk. And seeing as he developed under late era Joyce there's probably an ounce of truth in that.
For best results read out loud.

Своеобразный и, мне кажется, часто упускаемый из виду, эпилог к Трилогии - и гораздо более постижимый: место действия - грязь, реквизит, он же декорация - мешки, в которых что-то блямкает. Ну что может проще и чего тут не понять?
It is the story of a man discovering that he has a voice.
On to Part Two. By torturing Pim, the narrator learns what a voice is.
Part Two ends when the narrator and Pim switch places.
The narrator is attempting every solution, in series, in an attempt to discover what a voice is, where it is located, to whom it belongs.
The voice moves around: outside him, inside Pim but caused by him, inside him but caused by Bom. Once he realizes that Bem and Bom are the same, his reasoning takes off.
My mind panted right along Beckett with the repetitive words, the counting, the existential questions, the desperation in the mud.
His anti-text, the decoding of his thinking process as if written in mathematical sequences but not congruent.
I'm seeing a collage of his novel, the mud like the muddled meanings of his text, God, emotional nakedness of body/mind, clinging desperation, love, cruelty a vessel of decay in humanity, confusion, solitude, clinging to scarce hopes, short sparse connections but when seen in whole connecting all the subjects until the long poem dies in the mud.
All in minimalistic, pounding, rhythmical words and numbers thrown at the canvas.
