https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173282.An_Essay_on_Man
I've heard someone say his thought is unoriginal. I know nothing about that. This book is a mind-expander on too many levels. A must read for anyone concerned with language and art.
Cassirer's book, though touted as philosophy, is more of a summary of recent (as of 1944) developments in the theory of religion, language, art, history, and science.
Throughout, Cassirer advances his annoying optimism in human progress which can be summarized with this statement: "Human culture taken as a whole may be described as the process of man's progressive self-liberation" (228).This enthusiasm is boring.
The works of Marx, Cassirer, Darwin, and all liberals with a faith in human progress must be re-evaluated.
Anyone who maintains a belief in humanity's ongoing self-improvement must blatantly ignore a great deal.I read this book because I wanted to see if Cassirer has anything interesting to offer us.
Este fue en su tiempo uno de mis libritos favoritos.
Son , para mi gusto muy claros.
De los que más me gustaron fueron los que tratan sobre la naturaleza simbólica del ser humano.
Sobre el papel del lenguaje en todo lo que el hombre hace y deshace de este mundo.
Y claro, su ensayo sobre epistemología y cómo los hombres adquirimos los conocimientos son muy interesantes.
Hoy en día este libro debería ser de texto para estudiantes de preparatoria, como de 16 años en adelante, para que se les queme el cerebro y aprendar a leer cosas en serio.
Best book ever.
El libro busca explicar la naturaleza del Hombre a partir del significado del símbolo en la cultura. De esta manera, se describe cómo cada manifestación de la cultura define al Hombre. Estas son: mito y religión, lenguaje, arte, historia y ciencia.
In each chapter, he supplies a survey of the history of commentary on the subject, identifies some of the dominant ideas about it, as well as discussing some of the more problematic or controversial points.In general, this book was not too demanding a read, although in the chapter on language I think Cassirer could have defined some of the more technical terms he employs.
Of the different sections, I enjoyed the chapter on history the most.It would not be a bad idea to have a little background in classical philosophy to read this one, as Cassirer quotes from and makes references to various thinkers including Plato, Kant and Hume, to name only a few.
Po pierwszej lekturze eseju ma się wrażenie, że Cassirer jest w jakichś sposób odtwórczy.
Nie nudzi natomiast erudycja autora, lekki styl pisania jak na temat skoplikowany, wydawałoby się, odporny na formę przyjemnego czytelnictwa.Dopiero przy drugiej lekturze doceniłem w jak przystępny sposób Cassirer przedstawił swoją wizję fenomenologii kultury.
Wydaje mi się, że świadomość połączenia form symbolicznych - mitu, religii, języka, sztuki i nauki oraz innych, nie wspomnianych explicite przez autora jak na przykład filozofia sama w sobie jest naszym udziałem od jego czasów (zmarł w 1945r.
Anny Staniewskiej) jak i angielskiej (tą musiałem zaznaczyć, innej serwis nie widział).Lektura jest syntezą filozofii kultury z początku XX w.
Não sei se foi impressão minha, mas muito embora Cassirer alerte para não considerar nenhum mecanismo de interpretação que leve em conta premissas etnocêntricas, e ele inove em muita coisa, ele acaba por tratar como "primitivos" os grupos estudados, e ainda leva à questão a linha evolutiva mito-religião-ciência em consideração para toda a humanidade.
É interessante a filosofia da cultura de Cassirer e é muito atual, mostrando que o que diferencia o homem dos animais não é por ele ter a capacidade de ser racional, mas pela sua constante capacidade de simbologizar as relações, ou seja, ter cultura.
Por isso ele fala que o homem é um animal symbolicum e não primeiramente rationale.
I will not deny that there are some dull parts, especially in the second half of the book, and yet the overall impression is more than positive.
The main theme is - man as 'Animal Symbolicum'.
Cassirer lists following regions of human culture: myth, religion, language, art, history and science.
It seems he doesn't see that language is the essence of all other forms of communication.
Although, this second half of the book was less interesting and structuralist method is not that original and new, I' m very interested in this field, so I will be looking for Cassirer's main work "The philosophy of symbolic forms".
One by Alexis Carrel, and this one by Cassirer.Such a book to deal with 'Filsafat Manusia' course and finish your 2nd semester gracefullyI'm also kind of fascinated by the story Cassirer wrote about Phadeus and Socrates when they're walking together, and Socrates then burst into admiration for the beauty of the spot, very delighted with the landscape.
But then Phadeus interrupts with some words and add this one, "and I hope that you will excuse me when you hear the reason, which is, that I am a lover of knowledge, and the men who dwell in the city are my teachers, and not trees, or the countries."
"All that which befalls man from without is null and void. His essence does not depend on external circumstances; it depends exclusively on the value he gives to himself. Riches, rank, social distinction, even health or intellectual gifts--all this becomes indifferent. What matters alone is the tendency, the inner attitude of the soul; and this inner principle cannot be disturbed."Such a great book that lead to much introspection. There is a chapter that delves into every imaginable facet of human life, from space and time, to language, to art, to history, to science, and then back just to silent contemplation.
I liked this book.
Although, I didn't Like his enthusiasm over his idea of the human species towards the end of the book, but then again the book was printed back during his time.
I think if he was to see what man is doing today he would be both amazed and disappointed, not because of the advancements that we have done but because of the destruction that we are doing.
I did like his essays on myth, religion, language, art, history and science they have been the major drive in every culture.
His writing is very technical and very well thought out.
Interesting. The main idea that I got out of this book is that Cassirer believes that one cannot point to something in all men to discover human nature, but human nature is understood functionally as reflected in all of the things that man does. What man does is reflected in culture, myth, religion, language, science. He calls these symbolic forms. I compare these symbolic forms to Thomas Sowell's social processes.
Satu lagi buku yang sudah saya idam-idamkan sejak lama karena nggak tau bisa dapat dimana namun ternyata dengan ironisnya malah dijadikan buku modul kuliah. It really is heaven!Teman-teman saya rata-rata mengeluh saat ditugaskan untuk membaca buku ini karena bahasanya yang sangat filosofis. Tapi justru disitulah menariknya. Bahasa yang melayang-layang dan membutuhkan interpretasi masing-masing dari pembacanya, itulah kehebatan dari buku-buku filsafat, dan juga kehebatan buku yang satu ini.
Ernst Cassirer awalnya cukup asing di telinga saya. Namun akhirnya saya tahu bahwa Cassirer bisa disejajarkan dengan filsuf-filsuf legendaris lainnya. Buku ini bukanlah buku yang dibeli orang awam, tapi inilah filsafat. Inilah mind. Logika memang sesuatu yang abstrak kan? Dan memang tidak semua orang sampai kesana. Khususnya Indonesia yang masih terlalu bias dengan mitos dan religi.
Big ol' summary. I liked the language, art, and religion chapters the best, wish science chapter was longer. Pretty euro + male centric, though. Clear writing and exposition of ideas, pulls from many sources.
3 1/2 stars
Jelas dan gamblang. untuk yang baru belajar filsafat manusia.
Gran exposición. De una erudición magnifica.
