https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12662.Caravans
This book is only about 340 pages---a mere novella by Michener standards.
Mark Miller is sent on a diplomatic mission to find Ellen Jaspar, an American woman who married an Afghan man and then disappeared.
Miller's travels take him to the remotest reaches of Afghanistan's deserts and mountains.
I thought it was a more than fair trade-off for what I got to learn about Afghan culture, history, and terrain.
2)Should you ever doubt Michener's sense of humor, here's my one big laugh from the book: "I wondered how a man ever got an English girl into bed.
It is a great book and gives you a feel for Afghanistan.
Afghanistan truly is a unique place and the book captures that well.
For example, early in the book it talks about how the German's came into Afghanistan and built all of these amazing bridges but after a season or two they were destroyed.
I have been to many of the places mentioned in the book and it was great to read about the places I haven't been but flown over (desert near the Iranian border) and the Buddha statues (since destroyed by the Taliban).
Despite--perhaps because of--its age, Michner's view of the then-current affairs and potential futures for Afghanistan make fascinating reading now. Forty-five years ago he recognized the potential of fundamentalist Moslem control of the land, but he voted for the secularists. He was wrong, but it didn't have to be that way.(I never saw the motion picture based on Michner's book and encourage a reader to seek the novel rather than the movie.)For a modern alternative ending to Afghanistan's latest chapter as political football to world powers and religions, read Greg Mortenson's 
  Three Cups of Tea
.
In the story however, the anxiety at the US Embassy in Kabul is over an American young woman who had married an Afghan man she met in college and returned with him to his country.When the story opens, Ellen Jasper's parents back in Pennsylvania have not heard from their daughter in some time and have contacted their senator, asking him to put pressure on the Embassy to investigate her whereabouts and well being.Mark Miller, descendant of Jewish immigrants to the US from Germany in the mid 19th century, is now posted in Kabul as a junior grade State Dept officer.
Believe me, Miller, I learned more in Germany than you’ll ever learn in Afghanistan."As you know, I went from Germany to Philadelphia, where half the people thought I was a Negro.
To prove to Philadelphians I wasn’t a Negro, I grew this beard and wore a turban, which I had never worn at home."But what I love about Michener is that he doesn’t settle for the easy argument.
Run off with an Afghan who had a turban and another wife.' She laughed a little, then added, 'Do you know what started my disillusionment with Nazrullah?
The book is marketed as a tale about a diplomat (Mark) searching for an American girl (Ellen) who married an Afghan, then disappeared.
But the first 100 pages of the 400-page book are all about everyday diplomatic life in Kabul (there isn't even any conflict to keep readers entertained), and we're past the halfway point before Mark bothers to ask Ellen's husband about her whereabouts--despite the fact that everyone has known the husband's location all along and he has nothing to hide!
Oh, and it's worth mentioning that Mark has random, plot-irrelevant flings with most of the female characters in the book.
172 Caravans, Michener, 1963.Afghans are portrayed as ambitious, clever people shaped by their history and geography, who are accustomed to surviving in conflict with the environment, each other, and external powers – from Alexander the Great, through various conquests from India and the terror of Genghis Khan, to the Russians, English and Americans in the 1940s.
All of this complexity is brushed over with a romanticized stroke that makes the book more fictional travelogue and less social commentary, while taking us back to Michener’s time when the country of Afghanistan, it’s history and people, were not well known outside of Asia.
Got off to a slow start but once Miller started on his search for Ellen it really picked up, and I was anticipating what would happen next. Learned a lot about Afghanistan and it's peoples in the 1940s. Would have loved to see if Miller and Mira eventually got together - they were a good pair.
4.75 starsThis time Michener creates a story set in the Kingdom of Afghanistan in 1946. This was a lovely read, and a short one relatively to his fat books. A single story here, unlike in his most other books. Michener has done a great job of portrayal of social and economic life in Afghanistan, along with integrating its history, culture, and most essentially the terrain. LoVeLy!! “Afghanistan, one of the most inconspicuous nations on earth. In 1946 it was just emerging from the bronze age, a l
4.75 starsThis time Michener creates a story set in the Kingdom of Afghanistan in 1946.
This was a lovely read, and a short one relatively to his fat books.
A single story here, unlike in his most other books.
And much, much more !The book also expresses ideas and opinions using opposing characters, about the 'unspoiled' and 'civilized' world of Afghanistan Vs the so-called 'civilized world of the West' and how we are destroying ourselves.Considering it is a smaller book than the author's other counterparts, this is a good book to start off with for those who wish to try James Michener's works.Certainly recommended !!
I first read this book in college 65 to 69.
I almost never read a book.
As with all of Michener's good novels this is a story, a travelogue, social and political commentary, and history.
It is good enough to keep you reading but not enthralling by any means.
But showed the country to be a collection of tribes and area that were not under the rule of the government in Kabul.
If you like to take your knowledge in easy to read doses I highly recommend this book.
I think I read half a dozen of Michener's books.
I think it reads well paired with Jason Elliot's An Unexpected Light -- the best travel book I have read, the best book on Afghanistan I have read, and the best book on Western desire I have read.
Compare that to Elliot's travel book.
He risks life and limb as a twenty something to walk through Afghanistan -- during the heat of its post-soviet exit.
We learn something about Western desire from Elliot.
From Michener we learn how that desire -- the more real desire -- remains hidden in the glowing vapors of the Cold War.
"One of the world's great cauldrons"I had expected "Caravans" to read like the only other Michener book I've read, "Hawaii": a sweeping, multi-generational narrative holding together an entertaining history of the kingdom(s) turned state.Instead, I lived a year of a young American man's life as he comes of age in post-WWII Afghanistan.
I can't remember the last time I wanted climb inside a novel.
The exotic scenes are richly described, the characters layered and living.
"Caravans" is wise and philosophical, but crisp as the night desert air he makes you breath, and as seemingly simple as the "primitive" culture main characters witness.An epic journey.
His books are totally free of the identity politics that dominates the cultural conversation today, for instance (he has "Caravans"' protagonist refer to certain practices in Afghan culture as "disgusting sodomy" without blinking - try finding a modern New York Times bestseller that does that!) Moving on, one of the most interesting books Michener wrote was "The Drifters", which is about the emerging hippie and anti-war subculture in 1968 America and Europe.
Reading Michener's books, among others, can help us critically look at our own unquestioned assumptions about how the world should work.That's a lot to take out of middlebrow novels like "Caravans", but since the plot and characterization is so thin, you might as well focus on their place in recent history rather than their actual literary quality.
There are some beautiful moments when Miller pauses and looks out at the mountains surrounding Kabul and feels a sense of timelessness that I remember experiencing during my own time there.But Caravans isn't just a history lesson or a travel essay - it also has an engaging plot set in motion by a young American girl named Ellen Jaspar who meets an Afghan student, falls in love and marries him against her parents' wishes.
Published in 1963 and set in 1946-7 (before the Partition of India), this book reminds us what a great investigator and thoughtful writer Michener was.
The story itself is outmoded and Michener does not show great insight into the psychology of his characters.
There are striking descriptions of a violent and very different society that has very likely not changed much except that the munitions have multiplied, the mullahs reinforced with money and ideology from an even more fundamentalist source, and the young experts very likely all corrupted or disenchanted.
The story itself was very straightforward.A young Jewish American named Mark Miller, working in diplomatic relations at the US Embassy in Kabul in the late 1940s finds himself assigned the Ellen Jasper case - an American girl, from a connected family in small-town Pennsylvania, runs away from college to Afghanistan to marry her boyfriend Nazrullah.
As Miller journeys through Afghanistan in search of, and eventually with, Ellen he comes to a deeper understanding of the complexities and nuances of contemporary Afghan life.
I am never disappointed when I read a Michener book.
For readers who enjoy a well researched, well written historical fiction with well developed characters, Michener is a good choice.
This one is set in Afghanistan immediately following WWII when the US and Russia are both vying to elevate their influence in this country where life is still very much as has been for centuries without change.First published in 1963, this book offers insight into this culture, their history, their ways of living and thinking, the kinds of people who live there, why and how they survive in a very harsh climate and how those who try to modernize and change it really have an uphill climb against the many who want it to remain pretty much the same as it has for so long.I was really engaged with this story as it gave me at least a little more understanding of what has happened in this area more recently.
A great read.
This was one of Michener's early books. Set in Afghanistan in 1946,it follows one Mark Miller. A Jew who works for the U.S. State Dept. He is asked to find the whereabouts of Ellen Jaspar. His journey starts in Kabul, where he is stationed, and ends up.....well, I won't reveal where he ends up.This is a very relevant book in regards to Afghanistan. michener really delves into the history and culture of the country and is prescient when it comes to its future (the book was written in 1963).If you love history and geography, this is a book for you.
I enjoyed this book, despite its rather poor writing and characters that I really couldn't like. That might seem odd, but it was interesting to read about Afghanistan (even if fictionalized) in the late 40s from a writer in the early 60s. Michener knew an enormous amount about Afghanistan from many trips here before he wrote the book, and it really shows in his descriptions.
When I read all the other Michner books, I don't know how I missed this one. I have a vague memory that it was made into a movie (which wasn't very good), but the story has great appeal. A different time and surely a different place, but the plot is believable and a good summer read.
Written in the early 60’s and probably wouldn’t have read it except for book club but the story totally captivated me. Michener is a great writer and this book at a little over 300 pages is way more manageable than his super long books. Even though so much has happened in Afghanistan since the story’s setting and the book was written, it’s amazing how much remains the same.
3.5 stars. A more extensive review to follow...
thought it would be interesting to read considering continuing problems in this region of the world...it was more of a nod to Michener and his embrace of the world and its peoples
Better story than charactersThe writing is good. I learned a lot abouthistory and geography of Afghanistan. The ending was abrupt. It started slow, but I got swept up. I didn't like any of the characters which made it hard for me to stay engaged.
The Mystery of Selecting A Book? It is often quite remarkable how one ends up reading a particular book. Like other avid readers, I tend to accumulate books faster than I can read them. I probably have a hundred or more unread books sitting on my shelf, awaiting my attention.  But what’s mystifying is the nature of that particular impetus that leads one, from time to time, to select a particular book, out of so many. I suppose it’s the same mysterious motivation that leads any reader to select o
It occurred to me that reading Michener again would be a great exercise for assisting me with my own novel-writing efforts; and certainly Afghanistan is not entirely remote from my forthcoming destination, being situated on the eastern boundary of that geography most people recognize as the Middle East.
The Main Street Inn, Highlands, N.C.Expressing Themes Via Character Development	Certainly Michener had little clue as to the sort of war-torn place modern Afghanistan would become and this novel is rather juvenile in its presentation of the history of that nation.
Michener parlays his descriptions of the ruins into another theme of the novel, which emerges out of the character conflict between Ellen Jaspers and her estranged husband, Nazrullah.
I always see so many similarities between the historical fiction and the fantasy I read.In my mind, I always lump R.R. Martin's Game of Thrones in with Ken Follet's Pillars of the Earth Series.
When I read Michener's Caravans, I constantly felt like I was walking through some alien, science-fiction, fantasy world, but the story actually takes place in Afganistan in the 1950s.
The plot, the characters, and the writing were like no others I had read before.
Whether you're a history buff, or not, If you love adventure, I promise you'll love James Michener's Caravans.Jeremy MathiesenWhere Dark Tales Dwell
Having said that, prejudice is still thriving here, but generally in different forms and generally among the uneducated.)Back to the book – Mark Miller (the above-mentioned) is sent looking for a missing American woman who married an Afghani a couple of years previously and who hasn’t been heard from for 13 months.
His travels in this pursuit are what carries the book along, but also the comments he makes as different things happen and as people reveal their character, are integral to the plot.I found this book particularly enjoyable for a number of reasons.
The third reason I particularly enjoyed this book is because of the comments Mark Miller makes throughout.
The protagonist, whose name we don’t learn until well into the novel, gives a hackneyed travelogue of Afghanistan: the strange Middle Eastern custom of sex with transgendered young men and boys, brutal public executions for the most mundane offenses (including stealing another man's boy), and the mysterious Afghani women wearing the cloaked chaderi.
It's that very post-modern "progressiveness" that made me dislike the novel so much.The singular frayed thread to hold the story together – the disappearance of an American woman who discarded her “bourgeois” suburban upbringing to marry a wealthy Afghani man and enter into his harem – failed to pull me into the novel.
Even though I think this book could be diagnosed with multiple personality disorder, I give it 4 stars.
The main character is Afghanistan and composes the first personality: vibrantly rendered, interesting, eye-opening.
This is the kind of book you want to read with Google at your fingertips, as I really liked seeing the places Michener wrote about.
Even just seeing images of Afghanistan was enough to enhance my experience of the book.The other personality really brings the book down, and that is all the other characters.
I think Michener explained too much and made it way too pointed.
I did like the Afghan characters.
"The novel centers on Mark Miller, a young American diplomat stationed in 1946 Kabul, who is charged to find Ellen, a college-age woman who married an American-educated Afghan named Nazrullah and then disappeared in Afghanistan.
Miller’s traveling companion, meanwhile, is Dr. Otto Stiglitz, a Nazi war criminal.This story is Afghanistan in 1946; written in 1963 about the then-largely unknown country of Afghanistan I learned a lot about the very old, 'bronze age' culture and the interesting terrain.
Michener presented much insight into Afghanistan BEFORE the modern age, BEFORE modern powers got completely immeshed, BEFORE the height of the Cold War, BEFORE Russian and US invaded, BEFORE globalization brought America closer to Asia.
