https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2641307-these-is-my-words
I shed many a tear and towards the end was so enraged I almost threw the book, but I simply cannot stop thinking about it!
I'm dying to discuss it with someone.It is the beautiful and heartbreaking story of a woman growing up in the Arizona Territories in the late 1800s written as accounts from her diary (based on the memoirs of the author's great-grandmother).
And yet I watched her grapple with the same issues I deal with every day - love and heartache, the joy and exhaustion that come from motherhood, wanting to do it all and all at once - and I realized that although times and circumstances may vary greatly, a woman's heart remains largely the same.
This is, UNEQUIVOCALLY, the best love story I have read.I devoured this book -- I simply could not put it down.
Let me just say, dear reader, you will be quite satisfied with this one.Empowerment, motherhood, family, trials, adventure, loss, and love - all of these themes are woven into the story, and I found that many of the questions asked, struggles endured, and doubts born throughout Sarah's life transcend time and place.
This will be the book I recommend to anyone asking the rest of the year.
Truly one of the best books out there!
Unlike Little House on the Prairie with obvious '80s-era actors fighting against stigmas of the day, I found Sarah to be the perfect frontier woman, a little forward thinking, but just enough to make her yearning add to her perfection.We find all kinds of characters in the book: Indians, Army men, ranchers, Mexicans, Quakers, spoiled Easterners, foreigners, even polygamist Mormons, all minor characters splattered throughout Sarah's life to give us a feel for the type of people around the territories in those days.
The perfect combination of excitement and believability to make me want to read the story and feel that it could really have happened.
Its been a sorrowful journey so far and hard and so if we don’t get to San Angelo or even as far as Fort Hancock I am saving this little theme in my cigar box for some wandering travelers to find and know whose bones these is."I was so eager to read this book, described as a “heartfelt American saga” which is set in the Arizona Territories during the late 1800s.
"Captain Elliot has this recklessness about him, and a way of holding on that you don’t know he is holding on, and a way of laughing that is like he takes pleasure in the act of laughing itself.
"My life feels like a book left out on the porch, and the wind blows the pages faster and faster, turning always toward a new chapter faster than I can stop and read it." I avidly enjoyed These Is My Words by Nancy Turner!
Turner did a wonderful job capturing a very vivid picture of Sarah Prine, and of the people and conditions of this period in the Arizona Territory.
These Is My Words is a wonderful, exciting story of the hard pioneer life, written as diary entries based on author Nancy Turner's own ancestor, Sarah Agnes Prine, from the time she is 17, in 1881, to 1901 in the Arizona Territory.
Not only does the book sound intriguing, but the ratings on Goodreads are amazing - the average rating is 4.45 and 56% of readers gave it 5 Stars.Apparently I read a different book.The basic plot of the first half of the book is: Horrible things happen!
this particular sentence made me simultaneously laugh out loud and throw the book across the room: "Jack kissed me until my lips were swollen and my throat was dry as cotton, and kissed the scar on my breast, whispering A little sugar to make the owey all better."Howling laughter!
How do you write the words "breast" and "owey" in the same sentence and not realize it's utterly absurd?Gah, this book is just BAD!
As for reading enjoyment and ability to hold my interest, this book gets a 5.
Although the description says "inspired by the author's grandmother", very little of the story is based on fact.
When I first started reading it I was floored that so much happened to one woman.
After some research I found out that it wasn't the case, the tragedies had nothing to do with her grandmother.
And while I had read many true life histories and am aware that some pioneer women had very traumatic lives, this one goes a little over the top.
After my heart stops hurting I'll write a review, it takes time when you've just fallen off a cliff.I think I can write it now I will admit something here and now. Before I read a book I always read the dedication. This book is dedicated  To everyone who has ever stood on a hill in a storm  That caught my interest really quick and then, six pages in I came across this passage. What can I say? I was hooked. And you know what? I've never even seen a Cottenwood, but Sarah showed it to me. Page 6:
Page 6: A cottenwood makes a little sound with the leaves like they are talking to each other, a gentle and soft sound.
She was so easy to like, and Jack was perfect for her.
His kind gestures and quiet ways of showing love to his wife and children won me over to his side, I never want to read about Sarah being with anyone else.
about this book… (read the spoiler if you want to know about the HEA)*Spoiler* Before I end this let me tell you that was a darned cruel way to end the book.
Throughout the book Sarah has some very difficult trials and also some very sweet experiences.
The love story that takes place in it was truly a delight to read and made my heart swoon at times because of how romantic and exciting it was for Sarah to find her true love.My two complaints about the book is that it seemed extra long and there was a sad ending.
But she continued the story to show what happened after the love story took place when usually books end when the main characters have fallen in love.
This is pretty much my favorite book I've ever read along with it's sequel Sarah's Quilt.
First of all, it is a beautiful love story.
I love that Sarah learned to read, loved learning and by so doing changed her life.
I go to it whenever I am in need of a really good love story.
I definitely have to say that Sarah is one of my all-time favorite heroines.
When I don't feel like cooking dinner I remember how Sarah had to catch her chicken and kill it before she could even get dinner started.
But they loved so fiercely and never wasted the time they did have.
The blurb on this book reads " The classic adventure of one courageous woman's life struggles in the Arizona Territories in the late nineteenth century, A moving exciting and heartfelt American saga inspired by the authors’ own family memoirs, these words belong to Sarah Prine a woman of spirit and fire who forges a full remarkable existence in a harsh unfamiliar frontier"I was really looking forward to this novel but the first 50 pages of the book really had me wondering would I actually throw in the towel on this one as there was so much death and tragedy it was difficult to believe so I took some time out and did a little research to see how much of this story was fact and how much was fiction, and I was so disappointed to learn that very little of this book was actually based on fact and while it is inspired by the authors grandmother, the book is mostly fiction.
I totally DID NOT want to read this book, but did for a book group.
I remember feeling like she was kind of strange, uneducated, and maybe a little scary because she was so tough...
she had like 18 inch biceps-- we are talking strong.
After reading this book I really wished I would have taken the time to get to know her and appreciate her stories that were truly unfathomable to me.
It made me feel proud that I have her blood in mine...
that maybe I can be a combination of both incredible grandma's, refined yet strong.
The book is about a woman growing up in the Arizona territories and is written in diary format.
The Good: It's a nice historical novel that really makes you get what life was like then and there.
The Bad: I think diary format is cheating a little.
I thought all the characters were two-dimentional although I do appreciate what the author does with Sarah, making her strong and independent, yet honest and vulnerable.
I do understand why a lot of people like this book because it IS a beautiful and timeless story, but I am one of these readers that cannot get over bad writing to appreciate even the most touching story.
This got off to a slow start for me, and I didn't care for the pacing at the beginning. However, I grew to love this take-no-prisoners, kick-tail female protagonist, and this ended up being an apropos list for an election week that left me reeling.
But, as anyone who has ever read/listened to These Is My Words before, it wasn't long before it consumed my thoughts and I couldn't help but put the next disc in....and then the one after that.I did manage to iron a few things during one CD, but it was awkward.
I just loved her.Throw in Captain Jack Elliot and one of the greatest love stories in literature and you've got yourself the makings of a great book.
i devoured this book and couldn't wait to read each day.
set in the late 19th century and written as a journal, it is a captivating story of a feisty, determined woman, sarah prine, and her experiences in frontier arizona.
as the book develops, sarah's writing becomes more and more polished, mimicking the character herself.
without giving too much away, the love story in this book is one of the best i have ever read...it will leave you ALWAYS wanting more!
you will not be disappointed if you read this book.
This book was nitty gritty and I LOVED IT!
I have been reading Christian fiction historicals for so long that I forgot what it was like to just read a historical novel that wasn't Christian and refined and have things prim and proper and the bad glossed over!
This novel was based on a diary written by the author's grandmother from the years 1881-1901.
I loved the realness of it.
It tells about life the way it really was back then on the Arizona territories.
I am looking forward to reading the two other books in this series by this author!
I can picture Nancy Turner reading through journals and just shaking her head at the things that they went through back then with deaths of close family, severe heat and living conditions, flooding, cold winters, snakes, desperadoes dropping in, being attacked by the Indians, etc.Someone compared the book to "Lonesome Dove." It is like Lonesome Dove in that it gives us an up close and personal look of what it must have really been like back then.
In reading great authors, I'm always amazed at how they are able to put into writing things that are so subtle and hard to explain.
I am enjoying this book more than any book I have read in a long time. I love that this is a real life setting about a powerful courageous woman of our time. It shows the struggles and triumphs of life, and I can relate to it in so many ways. I love it!
This was an exceptionally good book-I don't normally read this type of book but was instantly hooked.
Sarah is a remarkable pioneer woman who overcomes so many roadblocks in life both as someone living in this age and as a woman who runs a ranch and wants to be educated so badly.
Her indomitable spirit infuses the pages of her diary that records her feelings and adventures and sorrows.
There are a few incidents that describe the horrific and gritty sides to life in the Arizona territories; I did not feel that they detract from the story, but rather keep in step with the courage of pioneering.
If you like Mitchell’s Gone with the Wind and Gabaldon’s Outlander, I’d say it is a sure bet that you will love this one too.
And any book that can make me grin and then cry like that deserves five stars.
This section pales a bit in comparison to the first half of the book dealing with the courtship.
The whole book is melodramatic - but if you like this type of historical fiction, you know what to expect.I was surprised to discover there are two sequels.
This book seems like the stoic stand-alone type.
(Can you imagine if Gone with the Wind had a sequel?
Life in the western territories was rough, and uncertain.
And it was in this environment that Miss Sarah Prine carved out a life for herself and subsequently her family.
Sharp of mind(and tongue) with a thirst for knowledge almost unheard of in that part of the country,Sarah determined early on that she would do what it took to survive and thrive.
And thrive she did!
In a no-nonsense manner she records her life in her journal.
I loved this look at life through Sarah's eyes and pen.
It left me with that feeling of truly having just finished her journal, not a book.
This book was not at all what I thought it was before I cracked the spine, or rather I should say, inserted the CD, as I listened to the audio.
I also thought the narrator's male voice was not especially masculine.
No matter.At it's essence, it is a love story, and for those fans of Diana Gabaldon's Outlander series, this is one of the closest I have found in historical detail, portrayal of a masculine hero, strong female protagonist, and emotional wallop.
I can give no better recommendation than that.The best part is it's the first book in a trilogy.
I don't know if I have words to express my feelings regarding this book.
I loved it.
It's a rare day that I find a book that describes my own relationship with my wonderful husband.
Oh, Jack!
Why did you have to leave again?
I'm sitting here wishing I could hug and hold my Ben but he is a soldier on another mission in Africa.
But, at least he will be home again.
I felt so connected to this story.
I think like her.
I'm independent and always doing or thinking things that others don't always approve of, but I don't care.
I kept circling this as if it were a bad tasting medicine - I don't know why I seemed to expect so little - and I was so wrong!
This is an excellent read, wonderful characterisation, lots of layers within the plot, and the best romantic hero and heroine I have come across in recent times.
I see this likened to Gone with the Wind and I have to say that is not an unreasonable comparison.
Luckily, I had the sequel to hand and started it over my breakfast coffee, so have it happily in prospect when I get home.
3.5 Easy to read, I really liked the format of this book. The first 20 pgs. or so were very depressing, so many people dying, tragedy after tragedy, but I know the early settlers did have it very difficult. Would have liked it more had it been based on historical fact, but all in all Sarah was a very plucky and hardworking woman, and I found the story held my interest.
This has been on my to read list for nearly a decade. So glad I finally took the time to read it. Loved the writing. Loved the characters. I smiled and laughed and cringed and cried. Very well done book. Source: Puchased
First Read February 2008: This book is probably in my top 10.
I love this book because the main character feels like a real person.
You'll be happy, sad, mad, glad, angry, frusterated, laughing, and crying right along with the characters.
Oh and you won't be able to put this book down.Reread May 2014: I have reread this book 4 or 5 times since I first read it in 2008.
I love Sarah, the main character.
And I love how her character develops and grows.
This book makes me laugh, and cry; every time I read it.
This book was so sad about the harsh realities of living in those times in the west.
I related to Sarah with her husband Jack.
I know Jack is a fictional character but sometimes it described my husband and our relationship perfectly.
Which is why I thin I loved this book and that character so much.
Anyone who is a mother can truely relate to the love and fear she felt for her children.
Loved this book I loved it more the 2nd time.
I am still in love with Jack and don't this i am ready for someone new.
I cracked open the cover, saw it was written as a journal and thought, "Ugh, not another story written as a journal." Within three entries, I was looking for a hammer and some nails to board my doors and windows to ban visitors, so I could read it in peace.This is a flawed piece of fiction, filled with too many plot contrivances that don't work, inconsistent flow of the storyline, and an annoying protagonist who is often too ignorant to be believed.
But, as soon as Captain Elliot (oh, Captain, my Captain!) steps on to the battlefield, you are willing to forgive both author and protagonist for the errors of their ways.
