https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96998.The_Book_of_Secrets
If you can read between the lines and extract the "Osho" out of what he is saying (and there is remarkably little to extract) and simply leave the techniques you are left with an extraordinary amount of information on meditation.
Then the next chapter consists of a few questions asked by his audience about the previous Sutras and his answers to those questions.The whole book is aranged according to the general type of meditation technique being described as is the Vigyan Bhairav Tantra.
And that is what truly makes the Vigyan Bhairav Tantra text remarkable.
I usually try to avoid "feel-good" New Age books, mainly because I know that life is not always about feeling good, and I don't want to believe in, or practise, lies and deception, especially towards my own self.
I think Osho wants us to not repress, merely for the sake of it.
Yes, Osho is very obsessed with the "hang ups" of repression (good God, I think I've just had a flashback to the sixties, even though I wasn't alive at the time.
Okay, now I can agree with Osho here, but at the same time, it also seems a very convenient way to avoid the issues.
this book is about tantra (not sex - that's kama sutra). tantra is about uniting of all of our experience (body, emotions, mind) for the pursuit of a greater purpose, such as spiritual fulfillment. the processes of tantra are highly psychological in nature, so if you like psychology, eastern yoga, esoteric metaphysics, or even just something new on the philosophical horizon, this book has it in concentration. personally, i have read this book 10+ times. this is one of my all-time favorite books.
this book is about tantra (not sex - that's kama sutra). tantra is about uniting of all of our experience (body, emotions, mind) for the pursuit of a greater purpose, such as spiritual fulfillment. the processes of tantra are highly psychological in nature, so if you like psychology, eastern yoga, esoteric metaphysics, or even just something new on the philosophical horizon, this book has it in concentration. personally, i have read this book 10+ times. this is one of my all-time favorite books.
this is the longest book i have ever bothered owning or trying to read. for some reason, too, every time i open it, it tells me exactly what i need to hear.
Osho is probably the most misunderstood guru and Tantra is misunderstood because on surface it looks shallow and 'impure'.
Will power is fine but isn't the obsession with will power a subtle form of violence?If I had to pick one lesson that I learned from this book, it would be this: It is easy to love the world because you will get praise for it.
Self obsession is torturing yourself for not doing things that you think you should be doing.
Because violence is a result of lack of self-love.
Self-love can never lead to violence.
Life changing.
This book, more than any other that I have found, provides simple practical techniques (112 of them) for breaking through the veil of illusion and entering truth.
While the techniques are simple and profound, the author has written over 1,100 pages of commentary that provide context and insight.
This is a very readable book.
It is the right book for me now.
It is both practical and insightful.
All 112 techniques are listed in the back of the book with page references.
Pick the technique that most calls to you and practice it for a while or follow the book sequentially from page 1.
Only the courage to experiment with techniques is needed...People can easily become opinionated personally, because of the difficulty that arises, when 'words' are used to describe something, that is 'beyond' words...It's all about being conscious of our consciousness, or you can say being aware of our awareness :) As you can see words are difficult, because words simply become a play :)This is why Osho does not use words, instead he uses 'techniques'Vigyan Bhairav Tantra means 'techniques to move beyond consciousness'...
But with these techniques, Osho shows us how to take our awareness into our body - to our centre.Consciousness and the mind are like two parallel lines that never cross.
As a Seeker you must learn a much higher code of conduct then just those taught to you as a child.
This requires your willingness to integrate many points of view.
What wisdom list of books would be complete without at least one more perspective about the divine?
Start with your own great spiritual or religious tradition then read the Book of Secrets.
Osho speaks fluently in the tradition of all great spiritual teachers - with love, kindness, tolerance and compassion.
Tantra is teaching spirit from a non-dual perspective.
Very challenging for most Westerners but a richly rewarding effort for greater self-knowledge, inner depth and consciousness.
A good book to reread now and then, but in small doses. Like all wisdom literature it should be taken with a proverbial grain of salt. But there is more powerful insight in this one book than in all the new age babble that lines the self-help shelves. At times contradictory or reductive (Osho's grasp of science is rudimentary), it is the imperfect work of an imperfect mind speaking truths that are difficult to hear and even harder to live. At any rate, the transformation it aims at won't come from reading.
This book is like a bible of meaningful thoughts and I turn to it whenever I need support.Anyone who is in search of truth can find something here.I use it as therapy,really helps and provides true wisdom and comfort.
The book is about Tantric techniques of spiritual advancement.
The word "Tantra" he explains, means "technique".
He further stresses that he is not going to waste time in clearing your doubts, he is just going to give you techniques which will help you to stop having a doubting mind.
The attitude with which one approaches such techniques is ofcourse important.
The beauty of the book though is that there are 112 techniques, which means that there is one for every kind of attitude.
If you are restless and angry, there is a technique that you can use even then.If you like Osho, buy this book.
Book of the Secrets is a deep study of Vijñāna-Bhairava Tantra, a real classic of the Vedic Tantra lineage.
If you have any real interest in Tantra (other than misusing it as a justification to get laid), you pretty much have to read this book.
The hardback edition is out of print.
Fortunately it is available online if you look around.
Rajneesh (Osho) is a self-made Enlightened being, and here he reveals many of his secrets—how he attained Enlightenment and what it all means.
Plus he answers questions from his students, and many of the insights he reveals are extremely helpful.
I picked and chose chapters of it that appealed to me and each one was creating drastic shifts in my perceptions and experiences but somehow the book failed to hold my interest for longer than 1 week. Perhaps I need a little more time to rest where I am before I am again drawn to return to it to continue my transformation.
Cannot finish at a stretch, all meditative experiments! 112 experiments of shiva+Buddha!
This is the best self help book or whatever u call it . This is osho at his best . It's a must for everyone . Many concepts are around us and common it's just that we r so busy that we don't even realise these simple things which can change us for the good . Go for it
be careful if you read to much of this or any osho- you might end up looney. however, there's some good tidbits of wisdom here and there.
Still reading...absolutely incredible teaching. Osho speaks truth...
This book had more of an effect on the course of my life than any other book I've ever read.
amazes me this oshothere has a lot of wisdom ,and lots and lots of nonsense !!
No Words To describe how important this man is in every human being's life and destiny ...
Up to page 200 or so now. A simply brilliant, clear, and practical close-reading of the Tantra Sutras (only 6 of which have anything to do with sex), plus long aleatory lessons from Osho. Both good for your soul and handy for your new project on Irigaray. Seriouly one of the best "esoteric" books I have ever, ever read.
This truly an amazing book. Detailed explanation on meditation techniques. It is from this book I understood that based on the individual different meditation has to be followed. I was able to find mine. Still doing it :) Thank You Osho
Brilliant! Osho's insights are impeccable as always.
My fav quotes (not a review):• Life is like a river.
There is no precharted way; there are no maps to be given to you which are to be followed.
Just be alive and alert, and then wheresoever life leads you go with full confidence in it.
Tantra is a trust — a trust in the life force.
Allow it to lead you, don’t force it.
Surrender to it and allow it to lead you towards the sea.
Just be alert, that is all.
While life leads you towards the sea just be alert so that you don't miss anything.• You may
Every man and woman feels disillusioned in the end, as if the whole life has been a waste.
Even if your eyes start to feel pain and tears come down, don’t be worried.
That day will not come when you think there is a hurry, when you think that now the moment has come•	The minister said, 'The meaning is easy.
So there is no need of mind; I can be non-efficient."•	-Page 786 •	"When Bosho was asked, "What is your meditation?
He said, "When I am hungry 'I' eat and when I feel sleepy 'I' sleep."•	-Page 786 •	"Someone asked Buddha, "I want to serve humanity.
When I was a little girl I was traumatize by the film In Cold Blood.
It took a boyfriend forcing me to watch the movie in 1991, to realize that it wasn’t the movie that scared me as much as it was the stuff I let be associated with that film.
When answers aren’t right in our grasp we turn to books that lead us to those answers one such book for me is The Book of Secrets by Osho.
The ICPL has many books that can lead to answers even though many of us are unaware there are questions.
The talks deal with practical points given in the tantra text, which are then expounded on (verbosely) by Osho.
There's some interesting information presented, and Osho certainly has a good knowledge of teachings, teachers and approaches.
However, in summary, there's probably too much information presented here and in the talks to be of any use for students.
Further, he introduced his own vast array of practices, which were confusing enough on their own, without having to expound on further approaches in lectures such as this one.
This is probably because one page might broach about 20 different practices and pieces of spiritual advice (all generally).
Sayfa 16'da anlatır ki;Sana bir başka Zen ustası olan Bokuju hakkında eski bir hikâye anlatacağım.Yalnız başına bir mağarada yaşıyormuş, yapayalnız, ama birgün ya da gece, zaman zaman yüksek sesle "Bokuju!" diyormuş...
Müritleri ona soruyormuş: "Neden 'Bokuju!' diyorsun, kendi ismini söylüyorsun ve sonra, 'Evet efendim, buradayım!' diyorsun?" Demiş ki: "Ne zaman düşünmeye başlasam, uyanık olmayı hatırlamam gerekiyor ve bu yüzden kendi ismimi söylüyorum: 'Bokuju!' Ve 'Evet efendim, buradayım!' dediğim an düşünce, endişe kayboluyor."Sonra, son günlerinde, iki, üç sene boyunca hiç "Bokuju!" dememişve hiç "Evet efendim, buradayım!" diye yanıt vermemiş.Müritleri sormuş: "Usta, neden artık bunu hiç yapmıyorsun?"O da demiş ki "Artık Bokuju daima var.
It will take you a lifetime to finish this book, but its worth it. That is, if you have the interest in the subject matter to begin with. It is a heavy read, difficult to digest in places mainly because it is brimming with wisdom of the ages. I've owned it for a decade, at least, and still refer back to it when in-between books and in need of illumination. Have yet to finish it all, wonder if I ever will.
An immense work. Of course, like all Osho's books, it's just him speaking extemporaneously, but that doesn't diminish the impact. I really feel like I gained a lot of insight into tantra methodology through reading about and working with a few of these techniques. They're so simple but they can really change you. Rajneesh says in the first part of the book that he's worked deeply with all 112 techniques and you get the feeling he did. Priceless.
