https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2130557.The_Wind
I loved this story but it is more in line with Wharton's Ethan Frome, with its sadness & struggle of a young girl who after her mother's death travels from Virginia to Sweetwater Texas to live with her cousin's family, mid to late 1800.
Thinking about the story The Wind some more, I see the supernatural elements that Letty & others look at life through these glasses.
The story is a young girl of 18, Letty whose mother dies & she needs to travel to Sweetwater, Texas where her cousin, Bev, and his family live.
She has no skills, no training, and no hardiness to deal with the barren land, and is incredibly sensitive to the ever persistent wind.
She has to live a life she never imagined nor wanted, with skills she's never had.
She's a precious doll, and she is destroyed by the land and wind that takes life, light, and cheer as it will.The wind is just as much of a character in this book as any living, breathing person.
And the wind taking what it wants, and refusing to bow down to any will of man or woman.
Dreamily romantic and totally unprepared for the rigors of life on the plains, she struggles unsuccessfully with deprivations of body, mind, and spirit that only the toughest frontier settlers are fit to confront.It's her misfortune to arrive in the middle of a terrible drought that parches the treeless land and under the relentless wind turns it into a churning dustbowl.
It's an anti-romantic vision that Larry McMurtry revived 35 years later in his early novels of ranch life, "Leaving Cheyenne" and "Horseman, Pass By."
A stark and unforgettable story of a naive orphan who has to relocate from Virginia to Texas after her mother's death.
Published in 1925, the novel initially angered Texans who were upset by the descriptions of the harsh climate and its toll on the inhabitants, especially women.
The author, born and bred in Texas herself, showed that not every woman who had to go west was cut out to be a pioneer's helpmate.
Terrified at the prospect of having to live through tornadoes and hurricanes, the heroine starts going mad even before she has a chance to experience the full brutality of the climate.
I don’t think I’ve ever read Gothic Texas and I LOVED IT!!!I rolled my eyes numerous times when Letty couldn’t get it together.
As the story went on, I started seeing that Letty resembled a character out of Gone With the Wind — but one of the characters who folded after the war, not persevered.
And while not everyone can be strong all the time, Letty never seemed to find any way to function or accept her fate.
The ending: YAS!I think my favorite part of the entire novel was the foreword.
Dorothy Scarborough was a woman WAY ahead of her time!
After having read "The Wind" I can see why the west Texas chamber of commerce was in arms.
This does not incite mass movement to Sweetwater Texas.
The wind was ceaseless, constant, continual, unabating, interminable, endless, everlasting, eternal, perpetual, continuous, nonstop, uninterrupted, unbroken, unremitting, persistent, relentless, and unrelieved.
Which is important that you be aware of this, as it plays a major role in how our protagonist, Letty, adapted(?) to her new life.
The wind was not the only component.
The ending was perfect, right out of the old west.
I was particularly affected by the repercussions to the animal life.
Classic Texas novel--don't know why it's not regularly read as a classic *American* feminist novel. It should have been in Madwoman in the Attic (Gilbert & Gubar). It is about a woman going mad, the underside of the Texas cowboy myth. Brilliant psychological drama.
And then a family death and overwhelming debts force you to travel to live with a relative in an unpainted wood-frame shack on a ranch, where the area is suffering its worst-ever drought--no trees, no greenery, no water.
She begins to think of the constant wind as a demon, and "began dimly to comprehend how women tried beyond endurance might sometimes go mad."Later in the novel, she personifies the ever-present winds in her mind and believes they are trying to destroy her.
She thinks, "Hell was a place where the winds blew all the time, winds that tormented you, but would not let you die....Demon winds!...."This novel is somewhat melodramatic, although historical accounts tell of pioneering women who, indeed, went mad.
She gets trapped by solitude, hopelessness and despair...It's difficult to rate this book because I already knew the story as I have seen the silent movie directed by Victor Sjöström in 1928 uncounted times.
Although the Hollywood-end was a different one - it must have had as we learned by Lillian Gish alias Letty when she told about the filming process in an interview - I do know now that Sjöström kept very close to the plot of the novel and that he wanted film the actual end exactly as in the book.
This was pretty much the perfect book to read while living in an area that's going through one of the worst droughts in years, as well as a worldwide drought that is affecting millions of people. Scarborough's portrayal of a young girl sent to the wide, dry spaces of Texas, being hounded by wind and no rain, feeling forced into the opposite kind of life she romanticized about is fantastically real. There is a wonderful twist at the end, although there are a few unanswered questions. Don't expect a happy ending.
This is probably one of the greatest novels to come out of Texas, even though the author only moved here later. It depicts a woman from the East Coast who visits family in a Texas farm and how loneliness and despair seizes her (like the wind sandstorms that are always hitting). [return][return]This book was later made into a great silent film starring Lilian Gish. This edition also includes a nice critical introduction.
You can listen to an in-depth discussion of this novel on Sherds Podcast: http://www.holdfastnetwork.com/sherds...
I love this book! West Texas as its most scary!
