https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1153696.The_Hustler
Gunther is a lost little boy who is treated badly by everyone around him, even (perhaps especially) by his so-called friends, and it's frustrating not to feel more sympathy for him, given his total lack of interest in anything at all, even sex, and the bad behavioral choices he constantly makes.Hermann isn't much more interesting.
His obsession with Gunther, who for most of the book treats Hermann as badly as he is treated by those around him, is inexplicable.
The real reason to stick with the book is the glimpse we get into the lives of these young prostitutes--the scenes in the middle which show Gunther interacting with his fellow hustlers really come alive.
An outstanding book, if not for an historical perspective alone, Hubert Kennedy spent years crafting a translation from the original writings of John Henry Mackay. If you like a good love story with a tragic end, and the best ones do, this is the book for you. I would recommend it to anyone interested in queer theory or gay and lesbian history, but I'd also recommend it as a great page turner at the beach.
Set in 1924 Berlin. What is amazing is that this was written in 1926 Berlin. The fact that the book treats a gay love story in a matter-of-fact way is pretty amazing. Since it was actually written in that period, the story is a bit quaint and I found it dragged in parts. But as a historical document, I think it's pretty invaluable. Christopher Isherwood said "It gives a picture of the Berlin sexual underworld early in this century which I know, from my own experience, to be authentic."
Set in 1920,s Berlin. I have read this book 3 times and will no doubt read it again.
This novel depicts the world best-known through Christopher Isherwood's Berlin stories. Indeed, it is blurbed by Isherwood, who loves the book "despite or because of its sentimental absurdities."Published in the 1920's the book is certainly unique. However, as a novel it does drag a bit through the middle when we get bogged down in the sentimental absurdity -- Hermann falls in love and can imagine no other. Perhaps to believe this world we also have to accept how isolated and ignorant Hermann is. Perhaps in a freer and more evolved society, Hermann's desires would also have matured.
Amazing Book! Truly just amazing!
Intriguing story about life as a man who falls for a gay hustler in Berlin in 1926.
