https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94803.Frog_and_Toad_Together
4.5*Aw so wholesome. -.5 because the first book was better and the 1st story in this one sucked.
I love the Frog and Toad books. Toad is hilariously neurotic, especially for an amphibian, and I love the way Frog tries to keep him sane. My favorite story in this collection is the one when they try to stop eating cookies. After several failed attempts, Frog finally throws the cookies out to the birds. Toad laments that they have no more cookies, and Frog comforts him by telling him about how much willpower they have instead. Toad says, "You may keep it all, Frog. I am going home to bake a cake". My thoughts exactly.
مجموعه ی کتابای قورباغه و وزغ بسیار دوست داشتنی نوشته شدن و برای کلاسهای فلسفه برای کودکان هم خیلی مناسبن
Folks, you can't have a gift better than this or any book by Lobel, and I will tell you why.First, I want to direct your attention to the fact that this is a level reader.
Frog and Toad was written for, or is in language deemed perfect for, kids attempting to read on their own for the first time.
There is criteria for a level reader: It has to have words on the approved list for whatever level, this one I believe is for first grade, and it has to be G-rated.
After almost losing their lives to the birds in order to learn what will power is, Toad walks away grumpily.
Reading the Frog and Toad series truly helped me become a lifelong reader. So many generations of children are indebted to Arnold Lobel. His illustrations drew you in but his unique, creative writing kept you there. One of the top ten best children's authors.
I love Frog and Toad. The stories are simple, but with such sly, dry wit that never fails to make me laugh. The story about the cookies is particularly hilarious.
I keep asking myself why it is that I really like this book. All I can say is that I really do.

I love Arnold Lobel's books. I checked some out at the library and read this to my daughter. The books are well written for children's books and have a great message. Add to that the fun artwork and you have some of the best children's books out there.
Found this on the library sale shelf for a quarter! Love every story in here.
One of the best children's books ever, great stories and illustrations.
Frog and toad are always hilarious.
I think I had this Frog and Toad book as a kid because I remember the list and the cookies stories, but I relate to Frog and Toad more now than I ever did as a child.
"A List" is a cute story in which Toad makes a list of everything he will do that day -- wake up, eat breakfast, take nap, etc.
"Cookies" is also a good story, in which Toad bakes the best cookies ever.
There's a cute illustration of the two friends double-fisting cookies into their mouths.
Toad has all of these abilities and his friend has none, each one of his abilities makes his friendship seem less important, but that is not his desire he wants to be equal with his friend so his talents does not matter his friend ship does, so at the end he is playing joyfully with Frog on the same level.
Also I noticed that when the text is making a point the text is on a page by itself.
Also on every page the text is large than the images, once again indicating the importance of the text over the illustrations.
The "list" story makes Toad into a caricature of people like me who often miss the forest for the trees when it comes to planning.The story about "being brave" caught my interest as being both whimsical and serious, and I think the one I pondered the most was the "dream" chapter.
It was short and simple, but at the same time, it was almost like a parable for something that happens in real life, and made me think about it even after reading.
Simple text and charming, frog-hued pictures combined with sensitive, funny, original stories show children what real friendship is all about.
With large size text, some repetition and humorous illustrations, this is aimed at transitional readers.Some of the concepts are a bit higher than others in the series.
The Dream seems to have the moral that being the star can diminish your friend.While the stories are well done, they aren't as funny as in Frog and Toad Together, & are more thought provoking.
For ages 4-8, beginning/transitional readers, and fans of Lobel.
Ah, Frog and Toad! Was there ever such another friendship like theirs? Why, they eat together, garden together, walk together, and most importantly are very, very brave together. They also consider important questions together – questions like “How Do I Keep Myself From Eating All of the Cookies?”Which, for no conceivable reason, is a question that resonates with me.:DConclusion. Fun. I liked this one better than Days with Frog and Toad.
I am an ESL teacher for children and this is a great book for those who are learning to read English. The language is simple but entertaining. I use it in my classes with children ranging in age from 5 to 13 and it is well received, the students can practice reading a book but also build their confidence in their English proficiency which helps them progress more quickly.
HotD - TRPlaceholder
Cute and funny flashback to my childhood. I love these books.
i relate to frog and toad not having will power to not eat cookies
Must read for all children aged 3-7
I did not like this book because I did not like the part when Toad's list of things to do blew away. I enjoyed this book because I liked the part when Toad's seeds started to grow.
It's on my list of Newbery Honor Books. It was cute for a kids book and had a fun message.
ext-to- Teaching ConnectionFrog and Toad Together by Arnold Lobel, here is another fun book of Lobel.
I can create some fun engaging activity for students.
First, I will ask students what is the difference between a frog and a toad.
For the second story, I will have students create a small garden and plant different flowers seeds.
For the rest of the text, students will engage in a group discussion to compares differences of their thoughts about the stories.
Frog and Toad are best friends and like to do everything together.
The book has 5 short stories in which the friends get up to mischief and learn a few things on the way.
The funniest of all the stories is 'Cookies' – they both cannot stop eating the cookies Toad baked as they taste too good and try to come up with ways to stop.
• This is a short collection of five short stories about best friends Frog and Toad. The best friends go on many adventures together. The friends are a great example of what friendship looks like. They help each other when they need help and support each other through everything they do.• Grades 1-3• This book could be used in an English class or to teach students about friendship.• This could benefit individual students that like to read about friends or that are having problems being a good fr
•	This is a short collection of five short stories about best friends Frog and Toad.
They help each other when they need help and support each other through everything they do.•	Grades 1-3•	This book could be used in an English class or to teach students about friendship.•	This could benefit individual students that like to read about friends or that are having problems being a good friend.
What did frog and toad do to show you that they are good friends?•	This book could be used with the whole class to discuss the importance of being a good friend.
What are the benefits of having a good friend?
The book, Frog and Toad Together, is a collection of five short stories.
In “The Garden”, Frog kindly helps toad grow his flower seeds.
In the story “Cookies”, Frog and Toad try to use their will power to not eat all of the cookies.
In “Dragons and Giants”, Frog and Toad help each other stay brave.
In “The Dream”, Frog helps Toad wake up from a weird dream.
A lot of early reader books have very little plot or meaning to them, but not these Frog and Toad stories.
Frog and Toad together by Lobel Arnold Genre: children’s literature Reading level: 1 grade & up Format: good Frog and toad together is a book about a frog that at the beginning of the book makes a list of what to do and crosses out everything he has done. The frog has a best friend which is Toad. Throughout the whole book they help each other when things go wrong. Also both the frog and toad to everything together like read, eat cookies, and have adventures together. The most important thing
Frog and Toad together by Lobel Arnold Genre:	children’s literature 	Reading level: 1 grade & up 	Format: good Frog and toad together is a book about a frog that at the beginning of the book makes a list of what to do and crosses out everything he has done.
The frog has a best friend which is Toad.
Also both the frog and toad to everything together like read, eat cookies, and have adventures together.
The most important thing of the book though is that frog and toad are best friends.
* Book Summary Frog and Toad are best friends and do everything together.
Toad really loves the flowers in Frog's garden, and Frog gives him seeds to grow a garden of his own.
When Toad bakes cookies, Frog helps him eat them.
And when both Frog and Toad are scared, they are brave together.*awards Newbery medal* Grade Level/ Interest level 2nd-3rd* Appropriate Classroom Use I would have this book or the entire collection for students to read if they are interested.
*Student Who Might Benefit From Reading All students/ Students who enjoy reading about frogs, or animals in general.
