https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676723.Obedience_to_Authority
Sure, Milgram describes his test subjects as almost Dickensian caricatures: a welder has a "rough hewn face that conveys a conspicuous lack of alertness"; a social worker looks "older than his years because of his bald pate and serious demeanor"; a forty-year-old housewife is regarded as resembling "Shirley Booth in the film Come Back, Little Sheba"; and, most jarring, a black man, "born in South Carolina," upon hearing the first protests of his victim, "turns toward the experimentor, looks sadly at him, then continues."What did you expect, Dr. Milgram?
يعهد ميلجرام هذا "التحول السلوكي" إلى أن المتطوع لا يشعر أن القرار بيده حقاً ومن ثم يتحرر من المسؤولية على الرغم من أنه هو من يقوم بتوجيه الصدمات، ويدلل على ذلك أن البعض سأل المسؤول عن التجربة بوضوح: هل تتحمل كل العواقب؟ فلما أُجيب بنعم، استمر على الرغم من مطالبة الشخص المتألم بالتوقف.كان البعض يبدون امتعاضهم من وقت لآخر ويتمتمون بعبارات (لا يمكن أن أؤذيه - لا لن أتسبب في مقتل هذا الرجل) إلا أنهم واصلوا حتى النهاية، هذا التناقض الغريب بين القول والفعل يفسره ميلجرام بكونه وسيلة لتسكين الضمير، لقد اعترض ولم يكن راضياً عما فعل وهذا يكفي.الغريب أنه وعلى طريقة "إيه اللي وداهم هناك"، قام بعض المتطوعين بإلقاء مسؤولية ما فعل على المتطوع الآخر!
The view of human behavior that emerges from the results of Milgram’s experiments is thoroughly depressing.
The (very thin) silver lining is that, even as the participants in Milgram’s studies were demonstrating their repeated willingness to submit helpless strangers to (what they believed to be) near lethal electric shocks, they were doing so out of an exaggerated respect for “authority” and not, for example, because of some inherent latent streak of depravity that made them want to hurt the experimental subject.
He also addresses some of the criticisms that were leveled against the experiments (the book was written ten years after completion of the research).
Milgram conducted an experiment in which individuals were asked to administer increasingly intense shocks to an unseen test subject in the next room, whenever the subject answered a question incorrectly.
Some individuals refused to continue administering shocks at the first protest of pain from the test subject.
Other individuals administered the shocks through concomitantly increasing screams of agony which - in the most severe cases - subsided abruptly into silence, indicating the real possibility that the test subject had died.
More interesting, the moral scale that evaluated the test subject's conduct seemed less concerned with how far the test subject took the shocks then with how the test subject justified their decision to stop or continue.
И продължават въпреки отчаяните му викове и гърчове - само защото някой им казва да го направят и въпреки че много от тях очевидно страдат, съпреживяват, треперят от ужас и т.н.Изводите на Милграм за характера на човешката психика и по-специално за подчинението ни на авторитети са безценни за развитието на психологията.
Изводите му в края на книгата относно еволюционните корени на психиката ни са изпреварили времето си с над петдесет години, защото еволюционната психология започва да се развива едва наскоро и в по-голямата част от академичната общност все още е анатема.Книгата е написана от самия него в ясен и разбираем стил, а не в характерния за голяма част от психологията днес псевдонаучен брътвеж и описва основният експеримент, неговите вариации и изводите на учения от тях относно човешкото поведение.
The book is clear, concise, and well-written and with conclusions that are both revelatory and disturbing -- not least by engendering thoughts of what I might have done as a study subject.It is interesting to contemplate and discuss this study from the viewpoint of 2015, as society has changed considerably from the pre-hippie sixties.
The changes include of social norms, like ideas about socioeconomic class and gender (somewhat anyway), as well as an evolution in the ethics of scientific study (recall the Tuskegee Syphilis Experiment study was only halted in 1972).
1شاید اگه یکی بهم میگفت "یک کتاب در زمینه ی روانشناسی اجتماعی در یک زمینه نسبتا محدود که کاملا هم مبتنی بر آزمایش تجربی باشه در بهترین حالت در مقیاس گودریدزی (!) چه جور کتابی میتونه باشه برای تو؟" جوابم این بود که احتمالا در بهترین حالت یک کتاب خوب (سه ستاره) ولی این کتاب از نظر من عاااالیه.
Unfortunately the experiments for which both Milgram and Zimbardo made their names have turned out to be utter frauds....https://www.vox.com/2018/6/13/1744911...
"Why did you do that?""Because I was told to."Or put another way, which didn't wash at the Nuremberg war trials, "I was only following orders." This book explores, through a classic experiment, the horrifying lengths that pefectly ordinary people will go to in obedience to authority and how they think that authority relieves them of personal responsibility for their actions. The tragedy is that those of us like me, who have a deep suspicion of authority, will read this book. Those who have faith in authority won't and they're the ones who need to.
کتاب به تحلیل عملکرد آدمها در برابر اتوریته و قدرت بالاتر پرداخته، چیزی که مهمترین مثالش احتمالن نسلکشی یهودیها توسط نازیهاست. کتاب آدمو وا میداره که به خودش شک کنه. خلاصهی کتاب شاید این جمله باشه: شرط بنیادین برای آزادی همیشه شک مداوم و گسترده به دستورها و فرامینی است که قدرتمندان بر اجرای آنها پافشاری میکنند.کتابیه که آدمو شگفترده میکنه.
کتاب به تحلیل عملکرد آدم‌ها در برابر اتوریته و قدرت بالاتر پرداخته، چیزی که مهم‌ترین مثالش احتمالن نسل‌کشی یهودی‌ها توسط نازی‌هاست. کتاب آدمو وا می‌داره که به خودش شک کنه. خلاصه‌ی کتاب شاید این‌ جمله باشه: شرط بنیادین برای آزادی همیشه شک مداوم و گسترده به دستورها و فرامینی است که قدرتمندان بر اجرای آن‌ها پافشاری می‌کنند.کتابیه که آدمو شگفت‌رده می‌کنه.
The movie "Experimenter" is an excellent film about Stanley Milgram and the experiment documented in this book.
I saw the film first, and now that I've read the book I like what they did with the film even more: the two really compliment each other if you're interested in the topic.
If not, the film will be more accessible and interesting.
The question was: if random subjects are asked by an authority figure to harm a stranger for the sake of "science," will they go through with it?
Yes, sadly, they will...
The rest of the story is all here, and I wish more people knew it.
HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!
I really wish I had read this book last year when I first started learning about Milgram's work for my Psychology A Level. It gave me a truly deep understanding of his agent theory and over all the studies. If you are about to do an A Level in the UK in psychology and have a bit of extra time I would highly recommend reading this book!
Everyone should read this book. I'll send it to you Saum.
Whatever you may think of the validity of the experiment and it's interpretation, taking the time to reflect on why we obey and arguably when we should choose to disobey must be of central interest to anyone.It is important to read and think about the questions addressed by Milgram for the same reason as it is important to get more insight into mechanisms behind racism and other forms of discrimination.
A very uplifting book that warmly reminds us that we’re basically no different from Nazi: the authority says jump, we jump, they say kill, we kill, and it has very little to do with our morality and conscience - these things mean very little in the face of the authority, and rightly so, because for a society to function properly we each have to submit ourselves to our superordinates, our superordinates to their super-superordinates, etc.
And to achieve this our morality and conscience would almost always make themselves scarce, allowing us to focus on one thing and one thing only: are we following the order properly?

How far are people ready to go in their submission to authority? The answer was provided in this groundbreaking research, which has had tremendous effect on modern psychology.Q:...К несчастью, в 1984 году в возрасте 51 года он умер от сердечного приступа. А нам в наследие оставил замечательные идеи: начав преимущественно с подчинения авторитету, позже Милгрэм расширил научные интересы до урбанистической психологии, проблемы «маленького мира», шести ступеней сепарации, эффекта Сирано и т. д. При этом он всегда творчески сочетал методы. Стэнли Милгрэм был тонким психологом, умеющим увидеть новую парадигму, способную обнажить старые истины или помочь переосмыслить скрытые принципы действия. (c)
An in depth look at a the classic examination of people and their willingness to obey to others.
This book is a look at the classic experiment that occured on the Yale campus in the the early 1960s.
There were many other experiments done testing certain parameters within the original design set up by Milgram.
At the end of the book a great quote/lesson from the experiment appears.
It goes "it is not so much the kind of person a man is as the kind of situation in which he finds himself that determines how he will act." This can be applied to so many aspects of our lives-a good read but is heavy especially with experimental data that may bore some.
It is really annoying knowing that we are more likely to commit horrible things and yet we don't shoulder the responsibility of our actions because we are basically ordered to do so. This reminds me of one of the verses in Holy Qur'an saying that individuals are fully responsible of their own every action regardless of the authority over them. And what's more annoying is that disobeying authority is hard. To me, being aware of this at least will help me to avoid being in a position requiring me to obey orders harmful to others.
Le descriptif d'une expérience psychologique des années 60, consistant à observer jusqu'à quel point l'obéissance à un ordre extérieur peut prendre le pas sur les scrupules de l'exécutant. Le livre est assez fascinant dans le détail des réactions des sujets (début d'effondrement nerveux pour certains, impassibilité feinte pour d'autres, etc), et finalement un peu inquiétant quand on constate la propension majoritaire à obéir de façon quasi-aveugle à des ordres pourtant iniques.
I thought I knew all about this experiment from reading other sources, but of course I was wrong. Milgram carried out something like 16 variations of the experiment, and he thought really hard and insightfully about it. He doesn't just quote Freud, Kohlberg, Asch and other psychologists of his time, but also philosophers like Hannah Arendt.I will say the first half (describing the experiments) is more worth reading than the second half (discussion), which I skimmed.
Revolutionary experiment, showing us more of reality on human behavior. Everyone should know it, because time goes and nothing changes, every time appears the "superleader" promising fantastic holly lands and those p-zombies are going on. Human morals are contradictory since the start of life: "don't beat smaller children" at one hand, and "do as I say!" at another.
Un must che tutti dovrebbero leggere. La realtà è più angosciante del thriller più spietato e c'è un mostro in ognuno di noi. Sono i famosi esperimenti di Milgram che mostrano come la maggioranza delle persone obbedisca a un ordine anche contrario alla sua etica se a chiederglielo è un'autorità fortemente riconosciuta.
It's fair to say that no one graduates from a good college without learning of Milgram's Behavioral Study of Obedience. Good.
Milgram's research, beautifully detailed in this book, fully answers this question, by revealing that most people in most societies are not moral, nor are they educated with the bare minimum knowledge required to produce even basic social organizations that could be identified as "western civilization" or "liberal democracy."OVERVIEW OF THE MILGRAM EXPERIMENT: In this book, individuals were asked to participate in a psychological study, for one hour, where they would be paid minimum wage for their participation in a psychological study.
A series of 18 follow-up experiments was performed to indicate why they did so, and Milgram found that the perception of "legitimate authority" determines why people will obey immoral orders.First and foremost, the research in this book reveals the poor hierarchical prioritization of the most important decisions at their detail level, the level of the individual, in society.
The point of rupture is the act of disobedience and may occur sooner or later in the sequence of commands, providing the needed measure."“Although the shocks can be extremely painful, they cause no permanent tissue damage.”Reviewed for personal research.
On the other hand, if one of them succeeds in blowing me to pieces with a well- placed bomb, he will never sleep any the worse for it."To sum up those who must be in control and demand absolute obedience: The heart of mankind is exceedingly wicked, who can know it?Number rating relates to the book's contribution to my needs.
I knew about the basic experiment, of course, but I had no idea how many variations on the basic structure Milgram conducted--this is an incomplete list: -Put the person being "shocked" (the learner) in the same room as the participant-Put the learner right next to the participant and make the participant physically place the learner's hand on a plate in order to "shock" them (!) (look at fig.
There is less experience with women bosses; on the other hand many men may want to show their toughness before a woman experimenter, by carrying out her callous orders without emotion.
I sense that a time is coming when we will need to be prepared to be disobedient to authority who is asking us to do immoral things against our fellow humans—already such acts are being dog-whistle green lighted—and this book is a primer on the reasons people obey authority and why feel they need to even when those orders conflict with their own morals.
#40 A book you bought on a trip"Nothing is more dangerous to human survival than malevolent authority combined with the dehumanizing effects of buffers." (p 157)I saw this movie about a year ago and I immediately (though, admittedly in a very inebriated state) bought the book and decided to read it.
It is FASCINATING!It really makes you think about the role that authority plays in our everyday lives.
