https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459096.Love_Among_the_Haystacks
دیوید هربرت لارنس، معروف به «دی.اچ.لارنس» نویسنده، شاعر، نقاش، مقاله نویس بریتانیایی، و یکی از معتبرترین چهرههای ادبیات زبان انگلیسی، در خانواده فقیری، در شهر «استوود» از نواحی «ناتینگهام» در سال ۱۸۸۵ میلادی دیده به این جهان گشود. وی پس از مدتی آموزگاری به سال ۱۹۱۱، نخستین داستان خود را با عنوان «طاووس سفید» نوشت. پس از آن، در سال ۱۹۱۹ به «اروپا»، «استرالیا» و «آمریکا» سفر کرد، و در این مدت داستانهای بسیاری منتشر کرد، که از مبان آنها میتوان به: «پسران و عشاق» و «رنگین کمان» اشاره کرد. وی در نمای
پس از آن، در سال ۱۹۱۹ به «اروپا»، «استرالیا» و «آمریکا» سفر کرد، و در این مدت داستانهای بسیاری منتشر کرد، که از مبان آنها می‌توان به: «پسران و عشاق» و «رنگین کمان» اشاره کرد.
«دی.اچ.لارنس» که در زمره بهترین نویسندگان قرن بیستم به حساب می‌آید، بخشی از شهرت و اعتبارش را به دلیل نگارش داستانهای بحث برانگیزی، که در زمان خود «غیراخلاقی» خوانده می‌شد، به دست آورد.
از آثار معروف او می‌توان به «رنگین کمان»، «طاووس سفید»، «پسران و عشاق» و «زنان عاشق» اشاره کرد.
اما معروف‌ترین اثر او «معشوق خانم چترلی» هست، خلاصه شده این داستان با عنوان «فاسق لیدی چترلی» در ایران ترجمه شده‌ است.
Having just read Lawrence's "Rainbow", I felt "Love Among the Haystacks" fell short among his works. "Haystacks" double love-story is handled nicely though, balanced with a very satisfactory ending for all. (I must spread more time between reading the works of the same author, as it is hard for me to separate review them on their own.)
I'm commenting on the short story, 'Love Among the Haystacks', which I've read within a different collection - not this one!I would recommend this story to anyone who doesn't normally go in for reading short stories because it's a very fine example of what can be achieved in short fiction.I love the fact that DH Lawrence so rapidly creates the world in which the story is set, taking the reader back in time to the rural heart of England.
I enjoyed the dialect, reflecting the awkwardness of the brothers, Maurice and Geoffrey.
And of course, because it's Lawrence, nothing really is cosy or straightforward: the heroines appear foreign and challenging, and there is conflict between the brothers.And yet, as the title suggests, this is ultimately a very hopeful story, with happy outcomes.
Opening lines:The two large fields lay on a hillside facing south. Being newly cleared of hay, they were golden green, and they shone almost blindingly in the sunlight. Across the hill, half-way up, ran a high hedge, that flung its black shadow finely across the molten glow of the sward. The stack was being built just above the hedge.
In the beginning, it sort of reminded me of a remake of Cain and Abel (Bible).
It was a clear depiction that Maurice was the good looking fellow in the fields, working hard (like Abel), and Georgory was lazy, laying in the haystack, and brewing with hatred of his younger, handsome brother.
After seeing this drawn up, but Georgory was not successful with killing or seeing his brother die...life went on.
It lost me a little with the woman coming in the picture, who was once married or speaks of a husband, and later marries Maurice and also his brother does well off too.
1.OXFORD,Level22.10/7=10minutes,10/8=70minutes3.love,farm,brother,hay,words,engage,night4.Maurice said to Geoffrey "But you don't know, do you? You don't know wha happened last night, up here in the hayfield."Maurice and Geoffrey is brother and they love same girl. Last night, Maurice had same time with the girl and kissed her, so I worried about Geoffrey and sympathized with him.5.At first, the relationship between Maurice and Geoffrey was not good because they loved same girl, but in the end, Maurice was engaged to the firl and Geoffrey found the new girl. In addition to that, the relationship between them became good, so my feeling became good.

Nice short novel. The finish is rather hasty... I particularly like the portion that describes a nighttime ascent by horseback of a prominence in the Nottingham neighborhood. Great descriptive writing about place as well as emotional space.
It was good.
Two simple reason for love and sex.
Really very beautiful. Read it one afternoon, set to a Thomas Newman soundtrack.
LOVE AMONG THE HAYSTACKS.
Lawrence.
***.This is a collection of six short stories by Lawrence (1885-1930) of varying quality.
The title story, “Love Among the Haystacks,” tells about two brothers on a farm out in the country who both discover love on the same rainy evening.
In “The Man Who Died,” a resurrected Christ falls in love with one of the priestesses of Isis.
“The Rocking Horse Winner,” is a different kind of story.
This is likely the best of the bunch in that Lawrence has a chance to explore the paranormal.
A surprising range in these six stories from 1929-33, in a 1960 Penguin collection (picked out for 20p in a charity shop!).
He consummates his strange 'posthumous' journey by enjoying the toothsome favours of a beatific & lovely priestess of Isis, who sees him as the god, Osiris; he leaves her expecting another divine birth to fade to oblivion.A bearded & dying Lawrence as Christ stretches a thin skein of reality to breaking-point.If you like variety...well, this collection certainly has that!
I found it very difficult to read this book.
On the other hand I didn't really understand the content of some of the short stories.
Of course, short stories leave out a lot, but here it was a bit too much for me.
So I didn't read all the stories until the very end.But I did read the title story and this one was ok (although here the brothers speak a weird dialect, hardly to understand).In the prologue it is said, that these short stories are wonderful literature etc., and maybe there are.
But for me it wasn't the right thing, although I like reading classics from time to time and very much enjoyed some of them.
I'm not a huge fan of short stories.
Short stories are over and done with far too quickly for my liking.D.H. Lawrence is my own mother's favourite author, and although I did enjoy Sons and Lovers, all his other offerings leave me a little cold.
Love Among The Haystacks and Other Stories is a collection of fictional works with sometimes heavy subject matter that are far too short and concise to make any real impact on the reader.Of the fourteen short stories I read in my collection, Love Among The Haystacks and A Modern Lover were the only short pieces I enjoyed reading.

Didn't really appreciate this. The title story is a Lawrence salt of the earth brothers and how they find wives and so in a style I expected from Lawrence. Within that context its reads as highly authentic evocation, but I was left feeling 'so what'. The others stories are more mythical (that's probably the wrong word) but even within that context hard to believe in. The prose in 'The Man Who Died' left me thinking what is he trying to say, but it builds to sex as a culminating experience for two people: a priestess and a christ-reborn figure.
1. Oxford Stage22. 7/16 85min3. hay, fight, haystack, brothers, kiss, girl, engage4. A week later, she was engaged to Maurice, and when her last three weeks with the vicar's family were finished, she came to live at the Wookey farm.I emvy him. Something happened, but they could engage, so I'm happy too.5. I don't want to fight with my brother like them. Love is important, but we shouldn't fight at Love.
1. OXFORD Level.22. 5/22 80 minutes3. 1 farm 2 two brothers 3 a young woman 4 love 5 shy 6 smile 7 happy4. Q: Are you shy? A: Yes. I'm shy around strangers. I think this is my weekness point.5. I think this book is very good. Two brother have oppsite personalities. I think this is a good point. The two brothers fall in love. I like love story. I want to read a lot of love story books.
Oxford 2Time= 7/15 100minutesSeven word summery= farm, haystacks,german,shy,love,woman,smileWhat do you think about farmer's work??I'm a little interested in work in farm, beause I like animals.Two brother in love same woman, it was interesting story. I loke love story, I want to read more love story.
1.OXFORD, Stage22.6/5: 100minutes3.brothers, girls, love, fight, farm, haystacks, german4.Have you ever worked at farm? -No, I haven't, but I want to have a try at it!5.There are two boys and they have different personality. I also have a brother and our personality is difficult. I imagined him while I was reading. It was very excited! I thought love is good.
1. Oxford, level 22. It took 90 minutes.3. Word summery- farm, brother, haystacks, love, german, wall, fight4. Do you want to work at farm?5. After, I read this book, I am interested in farm. This is also included love story. Two brother love same woman. Fight happened.
I love D.H. Lawrence and his proficiency at writing short stories. 'Love Among The Haystacks' was decent, but it did drag a little. I found a lack of character development and connection between the reader and characters. While still a solid read I do prefer many of his other works above this.
I would like to appreciate short stories more. There are some very sweet, tender, romantic moments which DHL does so well, and also some surprisingly funny bits. I did enjoy the stories, but I prefer his novels.
Eh...it felt like a morality tale with no real moral. Some lovely sentences, but not my favorite overall.
پایان افتضاحی داشت اما توصیف آدم ها بی نظیر بودآدم ها به حدی متفاوت بودند که انگار در واقعیت وجود داشته انداما پایانش به طرز مضحکی دم دستی و ناگهانی بود
decent writing. Lawrence's style but is so short it can't be fully developed like his other stories. I'd consider it a glimpse of what Lawrence can do but only a glimpse.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13544622
Same style as SandL with variances on dhs themes, same area location with distinct local dialogue
The two great stories in this set of six: The Lovely Lady, The Rocking Horse Winner.
