https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12391521-the-psychopath-test
***Warning: this review is not for the fainthearted.*** A video recently went viral of a Texas judge savagely beating his disabled teenage daughter with a belt.(view spoiler)[ Her mother tells her to "bend over and take it like a woman" moments after the man's sadistic promise to beat her "into fucking submission", to teach her obedience, hitting her while she begs from a corner of the room so all the camera can catch are her screams.If only someone could walk into the scene and drag that man a
A video recently went viral of a Texas judge savagely beating his disabled teenage daughter with a belt.(view spoiler)[ Her mother tells her to "bend over and take it like a woman" moments after the man's sadistic promise to beat her "into fucking submission", to teach her obedience, hitting her while she begs from a corner of the room so all the camera can catch are her screams.If only someone could walk into the scene and drag that man away - end him cleanly somewhere off stage.
If you're interested in this topic, I'd recommend starting with Martha Stout's The Sociopath Next Door rather than this book.
The problem with this one is that it's more "Follow me as I delve into this crazy world and have surreal experiences" than it is a study of sociopathy.
And that ultimately makes it less gripping.
I remember clearly the first section of of Stout's book, as it took the reader on a tour of one man's mind as he faced a simple but telling moment of moral decision-making.
Nonetheless, it's a genial read and certainly a good book.
A breezy, entertaining journey through the public effects of madness, with particular attention to the impact of the psychopath on society. Ronson is an excellent writer with a fine sense of humor who knows how to tell a good story in plain language. That he is able to do this while making subtle observations about our society shows what a really good writer he is.
When the majority decides that the only thing needed to stamp a lifelong label of "psychopath" is a score over 30 on a 20 point behavioral checklist, an incredible danger arises.
that's pretty subjective and would probably include the vast majority of my professors) The human brain itself is just such an incredible unknown that I think there needs to be a certain level of trepidation in creating absolutes.
Of course, at the same time, there are definitely strands of human beings who objectively act differently and need to be addressed by society.
(3.5) I'm not sure how much I learned about Psychopaths but I learned I like the author a lot. He's awkward and anxious in the most relatable way!If you're going to read this book, do yourself a favour and get the audiobook!
The Psychopath Test has Ronson's humour, similar style, empathetic point of view, and personal life injected into the story, but this research felt meandering.
A lot of it also didn't feel like a story, it felt like a collection of similar case studies, but honestly a bunch of them could have been cut out and I wouldn't have noticed.Overall this has cemented that I like Ronson's writing and his journalistic storytelling methods, but that this topic, and the scattered structure, wasn't for me.
Q:he DSM-IV-TR is a 943-page textbook published by the American Psychiatric Association that sells for $99...There are currently 374 mental disorders.
We hate writing about impenetrable, boring people.
(c)Q:People who are normal (i.e., sane, sensible) don’t try to open lines of communication with total strangers by writing them a series of disjointed, weird, cryptic messages.
No shit.Q:Practically every prime-time program is populated by people who are just the right sort of mad, and I now knew what the formula was.
The right sort of mad are people who are a bit madder than we fear we're becoming, and in a recognizable way.
The non-psychopaths would leap with astonishment.
It reminded me of this book, in which the author, in his quest to uncover psychopaths, visits Al Dunlap.
This was a man who actually enjoyed closing down plants and firing people (Scott, Sunbeam).
He encounters some experts in the field, some scientologists, a criminal labeled as a psychopath, a death squad leader...
These encounters were interesting enough to me to enjoy reading this book.
I especially liked his encounter with Robert Spitzer, who worked for six years on the DSM III edition (Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders).However, it's a lightweight read and not everything he writes in his book fits the title.
From this the book springboards into a look at Psychopathy, its diagnosis and by extension the way in which psychiatric disorders are not only diagnosed but agreed on (that is agreed to exist as disorders).Rambling a bit and full of introspective thoughts by the author (most of which are interesting and entertaining if not always germane) we go through a series of interviews that range from "Tony" to Bob Hare who basically formulated the most used Psychopath test.
While this book may be a bit more disjointed than some of the author's other works...it's well done and interesting.
And in fact our unhappiness and our strangeness, our anxieties and compulsions, those least fashionable aspects of our personalities, are quite often what lead us to do rather interesting things.” Jon Ronson, in preparation of writing this book took a course from a top psychologist on how to spot a Psychopath.
One person out of one hundred.Come along with me and play 'spot the psychopath'....shall we?#1.
She said if you're beginning to feel worried that you may be a psychopath, if you recognize some of those traits in yourself, if you're feeling a creeping anxiety about it, that means you are not one.”
I thought this would be a great tool for self-diagnosis, but actually Ronson skitters from one case to another without really making any definitive point. But maybe that’s the point. Psychopathy is probably not an absolute for most people, as there are many among us who exist in some sort of sociopathic gray area (myself included). Me, I scored a 10, so I’m a partial psychopath. (Surprise, surprise!) My downfall? Apparently, I don’t really care too much about other people.Here, take the test!
I found the first 50% of the book to be a bit forgettable.
It was hard for me to see where Ronson was going with each chapter.
When I read So You've Been Publicly Shamed, I felt like each chapter really compounded on one another to create a vivid and interesting picture of shame through the lens of an empathetic viewer.
While Ronson maintained that empathy in The Psychopath Test, I felt a bit less invested in the stories he shared and found it harder to connect with his points.
As he was following up on leads, he developed a theory that whoever sent it was somehow mentally ill — a crackpot, to use his term.During his investigation, Ronson heard the term psychopath and learned about a test designed by Robert Hare to rate someone's level of psychopathy.
What if it is built on insanity?"[Robert Hare said he was interested in researching the levels of psychopathy not just in prisons, but also in the finance industry] "Serial killers ruin families ...
Like many people, I took my first psychology class in high school and my interest was piqued.
Like the hundreds of psychology graduates, I was now qualified to do one of three things 1) move onto graduate school, 2) sell clothes at a department store or 3) get married and forget all about my career aspirations.
The following school year, I was admitted to a graduate program in psychology at Brigham Young University.
You are directly responsible for my dad being able to pay my tuition.The best two classes I took during graduate school was how to administer and read the MMPI and the study of the diagnostic bible, the DSM III-R.
I liked this book, while at the same time being disappointed with it.My main problem with the work was that I had heard that this book dealt extensively with the idea of psychopaths as possessing traits that tended to land them in positions of power.
A clever agent is selling this book as an investigation into this topic, but Ronson does little more than flirt with this idea in a couple of places throughout the work.
Like "Being or Nothingness", or the "DSM-IV" (both heavily featured in this book), it leads the reader towards Narcissistic thoughts on how much of various psychotic/abnormal character traits they possess.
I watched The Men Who Stare at Goats, which was pretty damn funny, and I thought I’d read a book by Ronson.
If you’re like Ronson and don’t know the technical definition of psychopath, this book may be mildly informative.
But you can read one of Robert Hare’s books for that.
I can read the original books on the subject and I don’t need to hear your story.
You can decide to do a “research” on psychopathy and travel between Europe and America and meet with Robert Hare and then a few known or suspected psychopaths, and then write a lousy book about it and sell it to people so that you can pay for your next “research.”
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #49: A Book About a Problem Facing Society TodayWhile this book may have started out as Ronson's quest to figure out if psychopaths rule the world, it ended up being so much more than that.
(Somehow, with So You've Been Publicly Shamed, each chapter is quite different but they all mesh together to make a cohesive story).All in all, a great starting point for people interested in psychology (and psychopathy in particular, which I find fascinating) and after reading this book you'll probably come out with like 3 new books you want to read, like me.
http://www.minddisorders.com/Flu-Inv/...He also runs courses to teach people how to use his checklist, and he is concerned that some people – professional people - are very inadequate in the way that they use it.*In the UK people diagnosed as psychopaths used to be let back out into the community after serving their prison sentences – the law said only patients with mental disorders that could be treated could be detained beyond their prison sentences, and psychopaths were considered untreatable, and were therefore set free.
I am now a keen Jon Ronson fan, and cannot wait to read his other books.
What starts as a light-hearted investigation into a set of books sent to academics around the world, proceeds to be an investigation into aspects of the mental disease industry.
Each chapter is a different story about an aspect of how mental disease has been treated in the past and currently.
It was a special listen that can be likened to other authors and documentary makers like Louis Theroux, Mary Roach and Will Storr.
These types of books and documentaries never are - they play a different role.
I enjoyed this thoroughly for its humour, the fascinating stories and Ronson's perspective.
This was to be a self-consciously iconoclastic, too-cutesy look at psychiatry.I am a fan of Jon Ronson, but less so after this book.
When I read the Goats book, I rationalized his use of the gimmicky, humorous voice, thinking the importance of the subject excused the breezy tone.
From a totally unnecessary story about a mysterious book to the deceptive title (there's no test, per se, there is only a checklist easily available to anyone who can Google), The Psychopath Test isn't even a good introduction to the subject of psychopathy.Oh, he quotes the right sources: Hervey Cleckley, Robert Hare, Martha Stout, to name a few.
This was a quite different book than I thought it would be when I first discovered it. Jon Ronson doesn't seem to follow the conventions of writing a study. In fact, it's non-fiction but definitely reads like fiction.Many thoughts passed through my head as I was reading it but what I found more disturbing was the realization that, more or less, people are turning into psychopaths. Let me explain. Here is the Hare PCL-R Checklist which is used to decide whether an individual is a psychopath. Item
In fact, it's non-fiction but definitely reads like fiction.Many thoughts passed through my head as I was reading it but what I found more disturbing was the realization that, more or less, people are turning into psychopaths.
Food for thought, that's all.All the above derived from my personal process of what I read in Ronson's book and that's what I liked most about it: the fact that it lets the readers make their own conclusions.
Although the title may imply that it's a book about psychopaths, it actually concerns a lot of aspects of human psychology and how psychiatrists approach certain issues, while the writing style remains witty and gripping at all times without trying to support or go against anything and anyone.
Ronson meanders through the mental health industry in a rather idiosyncratic way.
The basis of the book concerns the psychopath checklist developed by Hare and Ronson manages to get himself invited into various high secuity institutions to talk to various inmates.
A dose of Szasz's ideas at this point would be helpful; he questioned the whole basis of psychiatry and the madness industry.
He is not alone in questioning the mental health edifice; Foucault and Goffman did likewise.
This more radical type of questioning was not present in Ronson's book; but I enjoyed it for what it was; I would just have liked a deeper analysis
I heard an interview with him about this book and was fascinated by the subject matter.
I was not disappointed, this book is extremely interesting.
I like Ronson's style a great deal, and his writing is very approachable.
Secretly diagnosing everyone around him, often incorrectly.The overall message to the book is a little unclear.
Not exactly mind shattering, but it's the "cannot be fixed" part I think Ronson struggles with the most through out his journey.This is a must read for anyone interested in Psychology.
If you are like me and have general fascination with the odd and the unusual, you will like this a great deal.
A book about psychopaths that I actually liked, minor miracle, and that made me think a lot about compassion.Okay, qualifications – the book is more about “the madness industry” – the complex of media and medicine and science and big pharma and fucking weirdness that informs our understanding of people who are mad.
And when someone gets uncomfortable with this, the response is usually something like, “well, but he doesn’t have any compassion for you.” Because psychopaths don’t, generally – that’s pretty much the definition, right?
But I was mistaken in believing this was going to be a research based book, looking into the idea of how many of our businesses/governments/Really Important People are, in fact, psychopathic.
But who knows, it was a vague side story that only interviewed one mother with 2 diagnosed and medicated bi-polar children, and felt like it was there just for Ronson to point out how bad that mother was for not being able to cope with her children.)Did it feel like he was sympathising with psychopaths?
It’s funny in places and there’s none of the turgid prose you might expect from an academic.
It’s not really about psychopaths, because Ronson wanders off that subject into the aforementioned bipolar stuff, by way of some conspiracy theory tosh that he lifted from his previous book, and yet another rehash of Paul Britton’s undoing.Shouldn’t journalists be searching for the truth?Ronson just seems like he’s searching for the next thing he can spin into a witty book in order to earn his next paycheck.
Jon Ronson goes on a mental illness odyssey in his book, The Psychopath Test, which takes in some extraordinary people and facts, and is, by turns, a funny and serious read in alternating chapters.As always, Ronson packs a ton of enjoyably kooky characters into his books.
Also profiled is a psychologist who came up with a label for every type of behaviour which contributed to numerous misdiagnoses, specifically in children with illnesses like bipolar disorder, and how the current climate of over-analysing previously acceptable behaviour as dangerous can lead to over-medicating children, in some cases fatally.Ronson's meandering writing style is similar to his previous books which I didn't mind as it was still thoroughly readable but can obviously be annoying for some readers looking for more structure.
The book was written with intent to inform readers about the abundance of psychopaths in our world and how they impact our daily lives.
A quote in the book goes, “Serial killers ruin families, corporate and political and religious psychopaths ruin economies.
The book raises issues on how psychopaths can ruin families, societies, and economies.
It covers a wide range of topics and goes into detail on each area including how psychopaths can affect these issues.
There are two people in my life who I always wondered why they act the way they do but I realized that they are most likely a psychopath.
That being said, I really enjoyed this well-rounded take on psychopathy; from the use of labels to the tests to determine if a person is one.
He did not take a position and try to convince us, except as a story technique, but that was also done as a full circle.
I loved the same style turned on scientologists and their crusade against psychiatry, the psychopharmacology industry, and the creators of the DSM III through IV (although I would have loved him to take on V as well).He's the same writer of The Men Who Stare At Goats, which I thought was a very funny movie, and I'll have to read that book now.
The author is a journalist and it covers a wide range of the topic from interviewing a few (suspected) psychopaths, to speaking with psychiatrists who are involved in psychopathy and the classification there of, to scientologists, to neurologists who examined the brains of normal people and psychopaths.
It is a fast read of a book that I think does a good job being honest and truth seeking.The psychopath test in this book, called Hare Psychopathy Checklist presents a set of characteristics a person can be graded on.
All in all a fast and interesting read, but not one for people looking for a deeper understanding of psychopathy.
