https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30226723-king-s-cage
4.5 Stars “Somewhere in the distance, somewhere in my bones, thunder rolls.” If Red Queen was a game of charade and Glass Sword was a game changer, then King's Cage is a reincarnation of the two, manipulation and war and survival and politics woven into its essence, but on a whole other level. No longer a hide and seek playground, but a chessboard where powerful masterminds control kings and queens and princes and princesses and many, many pawns to fight for the ultimate trophy -- the throne of
If Red Queen was a game of charade and Glass Sword was a game changer, then King's Cage is a reincarnation of the two, manipulation and war and survival and politics woven into its essence, but on a whole other level.
Glass Sword ended with a jaw-dropping twist that meant the focus in this continuation will transfer to the dynamic between Mare and Maven.
*sigh* I need to give lots of claps for one character in particular, or rather Aveyard's flawless constructing of it, making me feel something I have never contemplated in the first two books: love for Evangeline Samos.
The heroine has an unfunny, grating inner monologue, and when she cracks some lame half-joke that isn't remotely amusing, all of the male characters around her will pat her on the head, sigh, and fawn about how she's "one of the guys".I'm not keen on Sabaa Tahir's current series, but I do genuinely like Sabaa Tahir, and when she stops writing that Ashes in the Night thing, whatever it's called, I will read more of her books, because she is an author who, despite all of the issues I have with her works, never fell into this trap.
"You ask how much of it was me," he whispers. "Some. Enough." DEAR MARE, STOP PICKING THE WRONG BROTHER.***Warning, spoilers abound, do not continue with this review unless you have read the book.****First of all, I CALLED IT. I KNEW that we'd be getting lots of Maven and seeing the boy behind the villain's mask in this one. And PRAISE THE BOOK GODS, I'm so glad Victoria didn't let me down. She gave us all those moments we hoped for, the explanation, the moments of fragility, the tension, every
She gave me a beautiful, tragic, tormented villain who fell in love with the wrong girl.....I say wrong because Mare does not deserve this Darkling, this twisted Warner of a king.
This boy is darkness incarnate and I have a feeling he's going to end up doing something noble to save Cal or Mare or his people in the next (final) book (to redeem himself the only way a villain can) and I just can't cope.The first book is still my favorite, but King's Cage gave me so many beautiful twisted lines.
so you have been warned).First things first: I went into this without many expectations because I loved Red Queen but really wasn’t huge on Glass Sword.
I summed up the second book with: "the majority of this book felt like it happened offstage or danced around any real character growth, plot development, and romance.
The plot still felt more like Glass Sword than Red Queen, but the character growth and world were so strong that I loved it.
The story starts with Mare as Maven's prisoner, but gets wonderfully complicated as it delves into their twisted relationship.
A Smarter girl would turn and run  To be fair...the author tried to warn me.To keep this review from getting as long (and as bloated) as the book, I will focus on the three worst aspects  - the prison, the characters and the sexay scenes.Mare's Prison  or should I say, my vacation?The entire book consists of Mare whining about how difficult life was...It's just...come on. Really? What does she have to whine about?  I've been broken too many times to break again. Her "prison" includes: A private
To be fair...the author tried to warn me.To keep this review from getting as long (and as bloated) as the book, I will focus on the three worst aspects  - the prison, the characters and the sexay scenes.Mare's Prison  or should I say, my vacation?The entire book consists of Mare whining about how difficult life was...It's just...come on.
It honestly feels like Aveyard threw the twist in because she needed to fill her LGBT+ quota.--Farley: Pregnant Mare, anyone?
The accent is possibly the greatest mystery of this series.--Cal: What would Mare be like if she was a guy?
I'm beyond disappointment and frustration, even though I didn't expect anything at all before reading, I still feel as if this book is a waste of my time.
King's Cage has its loop since the beginning: one, the description of the scene, and two, the description of the costumes, and three, the character progresses their own stories.
She skips the scenes incessantly I wanted to stop reading many times if it wasn't for the cost that was worth my three meals, perhaps four.However, I can conclude this book into one paragraph below.(view spoiler)[Maven holds Mare his prisoner.
3.5 Stars... So politic and sh*t this wrench my gut. What can I say? This series kept more and more like a dystopian fiction, more than being high fantasy. However, I like this one a bit better that Glass Sword due to politic game, more Maven, and because THIS ONE GAVE ME MANY FEELSSS *angry* *giddy* *angry* *giddy* and then *wrathhhhhh*, not made me all bored like GS! 1. CAl & MARE and Politic attitudes. I love that the characters are not totally black or white. There are what they are beca
However, I like this one a bit better that Glass Sword due to politic game, more Maven, and because THIS ONE GAVE ME MANY FEELSSS *angry* *giddy* *angry* *giddy* and then *wrathhhhhh*, not made me all bored like GS!
Mare is new blood ( but her heart is Red ) Their issue and scene is just SO WHATTT?!?!?????
and I pray, I PRAY that my favorite boy Maven will not love Mare like Killon does.
it's like Mare and Maven more get along together in term of their inner personality, but just because she think he is evil so she insists every bit in herself to not feel for him.
Mare spends six months imprisoned, tortured, living at the mercy of a wicked boy-king who keeps her in a cage because that is the only way she'll stay with him, who uses her to serve his own ends and each day steals a piece of her and replaces it with hopelessnes and anger, while the Scarlet Guard makes new allies and strives to end his reign of lies.
He is noble, and kind, and a great strategist, he loves Mare despite reason in a way that warms you up inside, but he has his weaknesses.
The face of Universal Studios executives every time Aveyard says the movie is in development with them despite it's been five years, the producer has had two box office bombs (one that devalued the stock price of Lionsgate), and they've so obviously passed over the movie rights like dodging a bad box office nuclear bomb:  Mare, I’d argue, is the central character who let this series down. Not just how insufferable she is but how Aveyard scrambled to reassign the ethnicity of the character halfwa
The face of Universal Studios executives every time Aveyard says the movie is in development with them despite it's been five years, the producer has had two box office bombs (one that devalued the stock price of Lionsgate), and they've so obviously passed over the movie rights like dodging a bad box office nuclear bomb: 
Not just how insufferable she is but how Aveyard scrambled to reassign the ethnicity of the character halfway through the series – in one of the most shameful acts of commercialistic tokenism I’ve pretty much ever heard of.
Me reading this book: After one semi-intelligible novel in Red Queen and one genuine flop in Glass Sword, King’s Cage was going to be 26-year-old Victoria Aveyard’s Hail Mary on the series that was supposed to be the “next big YA thing” but has been a painful lesson in hype versus realistic expectation. Does it succeed in doing so: I so badly wanted to say she turned things around but she didn’t – and that’s putting it nicely. Here’s the thing that I’m still wondering about with Victoria Aveyard
Mass I think it’s probably because she’s accustomed to fan-fiction (sometimes fan-fiction authors are hit and miss), but with Aveyard I think her problem originates with imagining every scene spoken aloud in the teaser trailer for the movie that Universal Studios has not even talked about.
In Aveyard’s case, I think the plagiarism is pretty baseless; to me it’s not really plagiarism but rather really thick imitation of two novels: The Hunger Games and Game of Thrones, which are all heavily embedded in her work—more like plastered all over—but in the kind of way that leads you to believe she thought she could make a shit tonne of money if she only changed stuff slightly around and fed it into a book about teenagers.
I’m sure now you’re asking yourself why anyone would stop to breathe while they are reading a book and the answer is simple: The intensity of King’s Cage literally chokes you!
(Yes, the book was that good!!!) The conversations between Maven and Mare were nothing but awesome (the breakfast and the bathroom scene before the wedding!
I kind of disliked her for being so selfish in the first two books but now that she’s forced to spend her time with Maven her character actually gets a chance to develop and to think about everything that has happened.
*lol*I know I’m not making any sense but I want more of Maven!
I’m not leaving this place unless I leave behind his corpse—or mine.  Well…No one can possibly understand how much love and adoration I have for this series. Book one and two were literal obsessions for me. I loved them so deeply that I literally took the time to annoy each and every one of my closest friends who chose to give a shit…even though 4/5 of them didn’t care for this series. I can’t even count all the times throughout a year that I say the name ‘Cal’. I know for a fact that I induce
I even liked Maven in book one-not as her love interest, but as a person.
He was never a true problem for me because, in the end, I loved Cal so deeply that the Maven moments were inconsequential.
I hope even Victoria can read this review and understand I have no ill intent-I will forever be a huge fan of this series and I STILL love book one and two way more than is acceptable for my health.
I don't care if you're team Cal, Maven, Mare, Kilorn, or Evangeline.
REVIEW TO COME AFTER RELEASE DATE!
"Wtf was this?" a novel by TweebsOut in stores this coming March. Make sure to get yourself a copy because it's slowly climbing up the NYT Best-sellers List and it's not even out yet. Also, this just came in.....Paramount Pictures bought rights to make this novel into a movie. The dream cast has already been selected and, "wtf is this" will star:  "Mommy, why art thou torture thy self?""Drinking Bleach right now""The Lord is testing me" "Disappoint. Disappoint everywhere "  And many more A-List
"Wtf was this?" a novel by TweebsOut in stores this coming March.
Make sure to get yourself a copy because it's slowly climbing up the NYT Best-sellers List and it's not even out yet.
Also, this just came in.....Paramount Pictures bought rights to make this novel into a movie.
The dream cast has already been selected and, "wtf is this" will star: 
"Mommy, why art thou torture thy self?""Drinking Bleach right now""The Lord is testing me" "Disappoint.
Disappoint everywhere " 
And many more A-List Celebrities!!
Critiques are saying:  "Tweebs is goals""I aspire to be like Tweebs" "Tweebs = LIFE" For further info, contact Tweebs' publisher,  "I'M DONE" , at  wtfwasthisshit@hotmail.com
The sarcasm was on point and I loved the whole weird feelings and relationship between Mare and Maven.
Why does the author goad on readers in a certain direction and just totally do the opposite by the end of the book?
Surprisingly I liked Cal better in this book than the last.
I just have a bad feeling that Maven will die in the next book.
May or may not read the last book.Edit.For the Mare & Maven shippers(view spoiler)[I don't know but what Made thinks and feels sometimes is really different to what she does.
By the end of this book, you'll be spitting out needles and hot lava.This "breathless third installment" kept up to it's word.
Oh, yes, it certainly left me breathless.BREATHLESS FROM SPITTING OUT NEEDLES AND HOT LAVA!Wow, Aveyard, you spin up this wonderful tale about lies, hurt, betrayal, love, affection, and you give me this SHITTY book?!Where's the suspense, may I ask?
The LOVE?!This is already the third fricking book in the series, and Cal and Mare are still prancing around each other like sick, mutant bunnies!!Worthless, I say!
NO!They talked about war for the past two books!
Victoria said something about genetics which, like I said, I'm not a genetics expert (not to mention there isn't a clear description of Mare's parents' skin tones), so I'm not sure how this works.
Victoria on the other hand never said what Mare REALLY looked like in the first book.
She must find a way to escape in order to tell the Scarlet Guard what Maven is planning on doing.As interesting at the premise is, the book failed to capture my attention as well as having little to no character development for Mare.
Not King's Cage.Luckily, Cameron and another character saved the book.
And I don’t want to go full on hate so I’ll be as professional as I can be just because, between Victoria and me, one of us has to be.This is the third (and not so final) book in the Red Queen trilogy series and it takes place after the events at the end of Glass Sword and we follow Mare during her imprisonment, Cameron’s journey to find her brother and surprise… Evangeline’s own story and drama.
And we start off with Mare being Maven’s trophy.One of the many things that didn’t work out in the book was Maven.
BREAKING NEWSNew footage from the inside of Mare's head has been recently discovered!Along with some new images on the current state of Norta!And this exclusive update from Scarlet Guard command HQ!Hope you're all having a better day than Mare is! ;)
Only time will tell though about Montfort's own intentions for helping the Scarlet Guard and what the price of the alliance may be.
First off I didn't really enjoy Cameron or Evangeline's POVs. I mean it was necessary to keep the reader informed about what was happening outside of Mare's imprisonment but like I love Mare and I can't stand people hating her so I automatically got annoyed with Cameron and Evangeline.
I can't help myself because no matter what Mare does I'm just like it's ok I love you always.
Like go away Cal.Otherwise I really enjoyed this book.
This is by far the best book of the series so far. Mare was far less annoying.I can’t believe Glass sword was a 1 star read for me while this was 4 stars. Who would have thought? I’m glad I continued reading. Things I liked - I love how action-packed this was. Some I saw coming, some I didn’t (view spoiler)[ didn’t see the first Maven assassination attempt by the houses who were loyal to cal (hide spoiler)]- The first thing I noticed was that this wasn’t in only Mare’s POV and that made me excit
Some I saw coming, some I didn’t (view spoiler)[ didn’t see the first Maven assassination attempt by the houses who were loyal to cal  (hide spoiler)]- The first thing I noticed was that this wasn’t in only Mare’s POV and that made me excited because if you’ve been following my reviews and updates of this series, you would know I don’t like her.
There were better people I would have loved to have instead of her.- Mare during the epilogue (view spoiler)[ Okay she asked cal to choose her but wasn’t willing to choose him and then made him seem like the bad guy.
THE REVIEWWhy this book?I read the other books in this seriesWhat I thoughtWhy oh why did Victoria Aveyard give Cameron a POV?
I couldn't stand the little bitch.
Why didn't Cal get a POV?
Speaking of Cal WTF was Cameron's problem with him?
All she did was diss him.
She actually made me look forward to the Mare parts just to get out of her head.
She also made Mare bearable, that's something I thought i'll never say.
The ending is the other problem.
Lets just say it upset me okay.
Am I the only one who thinks this title is...  Meh?  But I guess if it means there's going to be a shitload of Maven then I won't complain.And the cover. Well, I expected... MORE? The bone crown is an interesting idea but it could've turned out a little better. I loved all of the covers in this series so far, including the novellas but this is just meh. And I feel like they're pulling a Harry Potter movie franchise (title sequences get darker as the story itself get darker) with the dark blue. I
Am I the only one who thinks this title is...
Meh?
But I guess if it means there's going to be a shitload of Maven then I won't complain.And the cover.
I loved all of the covers in this series so far, including the novellas but this is just meh.
It works I guess but the cover is still throwing me off a bit.
I guess we'll see when the actually hardcover comes out.They made such a big deal about the release of the title and cover but I'm a little underwhelmed.
Yeah, I’m Team Maven all the way😉.
☆☆2.5 Stars☆☆   Power seduces all, and it makes us blind.   This book was my most wanted book. I wanted to read this book more than anything. Anything!! When I got my hands on this, I was kind of...repenting. Repenting on what I was wanting. First of all, this book's beginning was different from Glass Sword's which was kind of very slow. Beginning of this book was looking breath-taking. I thought I would get more than I wanted. But this book couldn't be able to give what I even expected.  OVERVI
First of all, this book's beginning was different from Glass Sword's which was kind of very slow.
We get to know more about the world, how it came into existence, how the discrimination of the world was made, how the war was first started and for what etc...(view spoiler)[This book has completely changed what I was thinking.
Then I thought 'Maven couldn't be that kind.
(view spoiler)[=> Interrogation of Mare by Samson, that was kind of replay of the previous books.
That was a short conclusion of almost of the novel.=> Maven, sometimes I liked him, sometimes I didn't.
“You aren’t alone.” The hope in his eyes cuts deeply. “You have your crown.”   Why???? That ending killed me!!!! Now I see it! Now I feel it! Anyone can betray anyone!I'm still #teamCal even though he broke my heart.So, I really loved loved loved what happened the middle of the book until the end! It was amazing.. BUT the beginning was so BORINGGGGGG!! Yess, I said it!! ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------King's Cage was lot of surpri
Elara took his love for his brother and father when he was a child and she tried to take his love for Mare but he said it didn't work!
I think he did but Elara took his love for her and it became an obsession.
Even if they fix him, I don't think that would be redeemed for what he did.2)I never thought I would say that but I really liked Evangeline!!
I hope she end up with who she wants!3)Mare was less annoying, thank God!
Mare FINALLY admits her love for Cal and Cal for her!
His is the crown.” I’m having a real dilemma with this series.
On the one hand, it’s easy to read, there are a lot of great characters and an exciting plot.
On the other hand, Mare is still pretty insufferable.
Like yes I know this - I read 150 pages about it!I liked the chapters from Cameron’s POV - she was great and super relatable.
Unfortunately after this ending I still need to read the last one to see how it will all end, because I need to know!
But I’m not sure how much I’ll enjoy it - my patience with this series is wearing thin.
The heartbreak is real. I think I actually stopped breathing while reading the epilogue. Can I have RQ 4 like...now? I will write a normal review once I'm...not depressed after finishing this book. Which, I hope, will not be next year. 23.11.2016: 28.09.2016:  28.06.2016: The cover is LOVE! On second thought, though, it should have been more bloody. That would have been amazing. 22.06.2016:  OMG, did the title just appear today??? It's amazing, I'm satisfied!
His is the crown.”“I thought I knew what heartbreak was.
I guess I was expecting a lot more with Mare's imprisonment and her being King Maven's puppet.
I really like the plot of these books, the world is well thought out and the characters are pretty fantastic, minus a couple of them lol!
Sure, Mare is a bit self-righteous at times and annoying at others but it wouldn't be Red Queen without her :) Even though the ending mad me upset with Cal and his decision, he's sill, my man!
I AM DEAD INSIDE. THIS BOOK FUCKING SHATTERED ME. I AM NOT BREATHING. I AM COMPLETELY DESTROYED. I AM SO FUCKING DONE.---  "Samos, Calore, Cygnet. The Rift, Norta, the Lakelands. All driven by greed, all ready to break one another for an already broken crown."  Why do authors insist on torturing their readers? I mean, there's the ending to the Crystal Storm and now this. Why shatter my heart into two and make me wait for another year to piece it back together? Why Victoria Aveyard? Why Morgan Rh
THIS BOOK FUCKING SHATTERED ME.
LolAfter being stuck with the paranormal romance world —which was kinda bleak compared to the YA fantasy world— I was left craving for a genre like this.Victoria Aveyard's writing style never changed.
She refused to believe what she sees and was constantly suspicious about everything.Cal, I saw only a few glimpses of this broken prince in this book but it was enough to build my love for his character.
He still believes that his brother can change.
LolEverything about this book was great, the world building, the characters, the battle, the romance.
