https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6443100-the-calculus-affair
[Before reading]Random fact time! I just read, in volume 2 of L'Histoire de la Suisse pour les Nuls, that Bertrand Piccard, hero of Solar Impulse, the record-breaking round-the-world solar powered aircraft, isn't just the son of voyage-to-the-bottom-of-the-sea legend Jacques Piccard; he's also the grandson of Auguste Piccard, who turns out to be the model for Hergé's Professeur Tournesol/Professor Calculus. Now that's what I call a dynasty. More than a passing likeness, wouldn't you say?________
[Before reading]Random fact time!
I just read, in volume 2 of L'Histoire de la Suisse pour les Nuls, that Bertrand Piccard, hero of Solar Impulse, the record-breaking round-the-world solar powered aircraft, isn't just the son of voyage-to-the-bottom-of-the-sea legend Jacques Piccard; he's also the grandson of Auguste Piccard, who turns out to be the model for Hergé's Professeur Tournesol/Professor Calculus.
More than a passing likeness, wouldn't you say?_______________________[After reading]I discover that we were nearly visited by Tintin and friends.
Perhaps we were out at the time, or they were too busy rescuing le professeur Tournesol from the sinister spy ring who were trying to kidnap him or something.
L'Affaire Tournesol (Tintin #18), Hergéتاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1975 میلادیعنوان: ماجراهای تن تن و میلو : ماجرای تورنسل؛ هرژه؛ مترجم: خسرو سمیعی؛ تهران، یونیورسال، 1354، در 64 ص؛ عنوان دیگر : ماجراهای کلکولوس؛ موضوع: داستانهای کمیک قرن 20 مماجراهای تورنسل هیجدهمین کتاب از این سری مصور رنگی ست. نسخه اصلی کتاب نخستین بار در سال 1956 چاپ و نشر شد؛ داستان ماجرای تورنسل از این قرار است: پروفسور تورنسل موفق به اختراع دستگاه ماوراء صوتی میشود، که کاربرد نطامی هم میتواند داشته باشد. وی برای یک کنفرانس عل
L'Affaire Tournesol (Tintin #18), Hergéتاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1975 میلادیعنوان: ماجراهای تن تن و میلو : ماجرای تورنسل؛ هرژه؛ مترجم: خسرو سمیعی؛ تهران، یونیورسال، 1354، در 64 ص؛ عنوان دیگر : ماجراهای کلکولوس؛ موضوع: داستانهای کمیک قرن 20 مماجراهای تورنسل هیجدهمین کتاب از این سری مصور رنگی ست.
نسخه اصلی کتاب نخستین بار در سال 1956 چاپ و نشر شد؛ داستان ماجرای تورنسل از این قرار است: پروفسور تورنسل موفق به اختراع دستگاه ماوراء صوتی می‌شود، که کاربرد نطامی هم می‌تواند داشته باشد.
I've read ALL the Tintin comics (as well as watched the movie) and I'm a huge fan. :) The characters are awesome, each plot unique, and the villains: unforgettable. A great read for all ages, and the best written comics I have ever seen. For history nerds, mystery solvers, and adventurers alike. A must-read for EVERYONE!!! :D
This is a Tintin Classic in its usual form. I am a big fan having read the series many many times. Reading a Tintin comic is like coming home or eating a sundae or eating a favourite meal - will never go out of style
Strange things are happening at Captain Haddock's estate at Marlinspike.Thugs are up to something, a
پرهیجان شروغ میشود و در ادامه با دزدیدن پروفسور کلکولس ماجرای جالبی شکل میگیرد. به نظرم تکنیک بالایی دارد و ایرادش این است که هرژه شتابزده تمامش میکند. این هم البته احتمالا به علت محدودیت چاپ یا چیزی شبیه آن بوده.
پرهیجان شروغ می‌شود و در ادامه با دزدیدن پروفسور کلکولس ماجرای جالبی شکل می‌گیرد. به نظرم تکنیک بالایی دارد و ایرادش این است که هرژه شتاب‌زده تمامش می‌کند. این هم البته احتمالا به علت محدودیت چاپ یا چیزی شبیه آن بوده.
When Calculus visits Geneva he is kidnapped by Bordurians (a made up country that is Soviet-like) and its up to Tintin and Captain Haddock to save the day!
The story meanders all over Europe and it's wonderful to see 50s era Europe depicted on the page, really really excellent drawing.
And of course Captain Haddock's bizarre dialogue, his best being "Billions of bilious blue blistering barnacles!" but also including "Bashi-bazouk!", "Ectoplasm" and a "Certified Diplodocus!".
It's a wonderful comic book which, while not being Tintin's best outing, is nonetheless effortlessly charming and entrancing.
A great read for all ages.
Another adventure!! Thoroughly enjoyed the entire episode!! A perfect blend of adventure and comic relief with a new character!!Titin is as usual at his best!! Nothing holmes style!! Snowy is as adorable as always!! Captain Haddock's comedy when he is irritated always evoke laughter!! The detective twins has got a lesser role!! Calculus role is minor though the plot revolves around him!! The adventure is more scientific!! After the exploration of moon, this involves a bit of science!!On the whole, one of the best tintin's work!!
Incredible adventure in which Tournesol is kidnapped and Tintin and Captain Haddock travel to Borduer and Syldavia to try and rescue him! Maria Carmo,Lisbon, 18 January 2015.
#59 for 2018Genre: Adventure Comic
The absurdity of the spy thriller22 February 2012 Tintin is one of those series of books that you read one and wonder how Herge is going to be able to top it, and sure enough he comes along with a comic that pretty much tops all of the previous ones that he has written. Unfortunately, as the bar gets raised, it becomes more and more difficult to exceed expectations. This, I believe, is the case with The Calculus Affair. Some have suggested that the Calculus Affair is the beginning of the final s
The absurdity of the spy thriller22 February 2012	Tintin is one of those series of books that you read one and wonder how Herge is going to be able to top it, and sure enough he comes along with a comic that pretty much tops all of the previous ones that he has written.
In the story the two superpowers are represented by the countries of Borduria and Syldavia, and while in Tintin they are a couple of small Eastern European countries they represent the larger Communist - Capitalist divide.
Tapi kemudian, ngga disangka-sangka ternyata Fillets malah jadi penyelamat Lakmus pada percobaan penculikan pertama ketika keluar dari Moulinsart.
Padahal awalnya aku nggak memperhatikan, tapi ternyata itu mobil Fillets.
Waktu mereka nyuri helikopter trus minta bantuan SOS pake radio, eh, yang ngejawab malah Pietro Maxx dari Asuransi Jiwa Kaya..
Mau minta bantuan malah ditawarin asuransi, dituduh main tipu-tipu ( buaya kok dikadalin *mukul meja* hahaha ) Kalo aku jadi Kapten Haddock, aku minta Tintin nyeburin helinya ke laut aja deh.
Ketemu orang yang mau ngasih mereka tumpangan untuk ngejar penculik Lakmus.
Hahaha.Yang ini bukan haha.
Hahahaha.Untuk ulasan yang lebih serius, bisa ke laman ini.
It is set mostly in Captain Haddock's mansion Marlinspike, Geneva and two imaginary Balkan countries - Borduria and Syldavia.
One of the best bits in the comic is at the house of a scientist where a thirsty Captain Haddock looks longingly at a bottle of rare wine while the scientist and Tintin ignore him while they discuss Calculus' disappearance.
It is an out and out action comic with lots of laughs.
I prefer the Tintin comics with him and Snowy or him and Captain Haddock solving the case.
Released in 1956, I wonder how much this comic might have influenced big budget Hollywood action films.

After the storm and the thunders strange phenomena are happening at Captain Haddock's house, as mirrors, vases, glasses are exploding without reason. Someone shots in the garden, an insurance seller comes to the house and suddenly Professor Calculus is kidnapped. Of course Captain, Tintin and Snowy tries to find him but are getting in trouble as usual!In this issue Snowy is obsessive with the Professor's Calculus umbrella. Snowy picks up, and run with it, climb down the stairs, carries it around, loses it, steals another ....
Loved it!!! A perfect balance of comedy and thriller!
It's the plot of Prisoners of the Sun set in the richer locale of King Ottokar’s Sceptre, in a nutshell.Where "The Calculus Affair" triumphs is in the artwork: never before had Herge's work been so exquisitely rendered.
However, I believe this to be the beginning of his late period, in which the following 5 completed works would either transform the "Tintin" formula for their own ends, or dash it completely.
"The Calculus Affair" is an example of what Herge could achieve when he was working at full creativity and with great resources, and for that it deserves five stars.
The beginnings of these stories have been around as long as the Lord of the Rings, the illustration and environments in the Tintin books are accurate and extremely detailed.
Anyone who has spent even a little time exploring Herge (Georges Remi) can see the painstaking research and adversity he worked through to compose the world around Tintin.
His ideas were ahead of his time (Exploring the moon, Industrialization, South American political conflict, modern slave trade, extraterrestrial life) and he made certain every detail for every object would be realistic (after the third book at least).
Herge's work can certainly be cited as an influence for any modern day graphic novel or comic book.
One of the best Tintin adventures, Tintin is again swept into a case of mystery and intrigue in another fictional, Balkan-like country, which is a satire on the Soviet Union. Herge draws again on historical events, as Tintin tackles a Stalinist country's theft of a secret technology that can be made into a devastating weapon of mass destruction.
A wonderful balance of comedy and thriller, this is so inventive, precisely-plotted and purely enjoyable. Herge's drawing was at a level of absolute perfection at this stage. I loved this one as a kid, and I love it now.
Hey! Guess what ? Another Tintin book and yes I have read this five times already. I always like to re read it because there is more military activity than in the other books. The adventure is as always full of twist and turns and chases. Calculus is sought by many countries and in popular demand!
the art is so lovely, the lettering perfect. the plot is pretty silly, but the cold war/Balkan details are clever and wry. I enjoy the story and characters much less as an adult than as a kid, but my wonder and appreciation of the beauty of the art and design is greater.
A Tintin adventure in the Cold War era. Despite set in fictional countries, Hergé did brilliantly in capturing the zeitgeist of arms races and espionage.
من واقعا عاشق و دلباختهي کاپیتانم!دلم هم خیلی براش میسوزه..:دی
من واقعا عاشق و دلباخته‌ي کاپیتان‌م!دلم هم خیلی براش می‌سوزه..:دی
So much fun! My younger brother has been telling me for ages that I need to read a Tintin book - I can see why he loves them so much. Very funny and clever.
كل مجموعة تان تان مشوقة للاطفال
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:Professor Calculus has a narrow escape at home - then disappears on a visit to Switzerland.Are you bored? Then just read a Tintin book, you won't regret.
Love the made up Eastern European countries . . . by the whiskers of Kurvi Taasch.
This is the first Tintin book I ever read and I really enjoyed it. It moves at a breakneck pace and keeps you engrossed. Perfect Saturday afternoon read.
I was genuinely baffled with the mystery in this comic.
I thought that the drawing design and panel composition also got better in this volume for example when the crowd of reporters wait outside the captain's mansion and I thought all the vehicles looked more details and accurate.
This almost gives tintin's design a nice contrast with the more realistic drawings of real life objects.
The comic slows down a tad during the second half and doesn't have the great unraveling of the mystery I was hoping for but overall what kept the comic still above average was that it was intense.
