https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/199263.Mind_Self_and_Society_from_the_Standpoint_of_a_Social_Behaviorist
One always feels an antagonism between his own self and the society.One really cannot fit with the society.Self mirror the attitude of society to get its recognition.His emphasis on the mirroring is brilliant.Mead differentiate the mirroring from imitation brilliantly and explore it in various level of vocalization to the gesture to the formation of attitude.I don't lie that i understand the book and get done with it.The book is so rich that i have to read it at least a 100 times to explore the various themes underlying it!
I first came in contact with Mead in my studies in Sociology and recently I have read this in pleasure.
As far as I am concerned the field of Sociology has everything to own Mead.I would love to high five this bugger (and I am secretly).
Full of insight and afterthought for an entire life time.As Steven wrote below: If you're looking for a light read, this isn't your book.
If you're looking for a way to expand your view of yourself, society, and your role in it - this book is for you
Within Mead's theory, is the act of 'role-taking' in which individuals react to social gestures, and adjust to common attitudes." resonated w/ me b/c one of the anarchist Street Rat slogans that I use is "Evict the Ruling Elites from your Mental Real Estate!" - the idea being that mind control is largely accomplished by behavior modification mass media techniques that colonize people's thought processes & bring them in-line w/ ruling elite interests that're particularly harmful to impoverished free thinkers.
Mead's 'books' are posthumous editions of lecture notes; Mind, Self and Society is the most famous, and with some right—widely read as it was for many decades, it represents something like a philosophia perennis of American modernity.Pragmatism is essentially a naturalism; the two primary stimuli for its development were Darwinian theory and the rise of experimental psychology, and any 'pragmatist' who claims they are not a naturalist may be putting you on a bit.
Notes from thesis:Alas, it is not only the language of “equality” and “democracy” that one puts on to get the physical “pass” upon which interaction would be made possible, but even the perception of the “self” changes when observing the self being gazed upon as ‘other.’ An individual’s self-image is typically a reflection of how others see that self, or, more specifically, how that individual sees how others see that self. So, it is a way of first seeing oneself through the eyes of others (the looking glass self,) and, in turn, reacting to that image or self-perception (Mead, 1934).
Notes from thesis:Alas, it is not only the language of “equality” and “democracy” that one puts on to get the physical “pass” upon which interaction would be made possible, but even the perception of the “self” changes when observing the self being gazed upon as ‘other.’ An individual’s self-image is typically a reflection of how others see that self, or, more specifically, how that individual sees how others see that self. So, it is a way of first seeing oneself through the eyes of others (the looking glass self,) and, in turn, reacting to that image or self-perception (Mead, 1934).
from list on: http://forum.thegradcafe.com/topic/11...Also from this thread, is advice on PhD prep:"Assuming you are already somewhat familiar with classic sociological theory, I wouldn't read more of it before grad school--you will read plenty of it soon enough.
Specifically, I would look into books on cognition, genetics, evolution, social networks, complex systems, and game theory.
There is much stuff to import into sociology from them.Also, chances are that if you come from a Soc undergrad your skills at math are insufficient for keeping up with quantitative sociology or related fields.
I first encountered George Herbert Mead through his writings on the shape of the city, and "Mind, Self, and Society" was wildly different.
Applying the pragmatist perspective to sociology and psychology was a really important intellectual turn, one which bears a lot of similarity to the research of Freud and Weber at the same time, but is made entirely fresh by its cleansing, pragmatist approach.
Mead also really redeemed behaviorism-- a social science method I'd always scoffed at before-- in my eyes.
By firmly ensconcing the individual within his or her society and emphasizing the value of interpersonal networks, Mead predicted so much of the social research to come.
This is a fascinating - if often difficult and dense - book.
While somewhat dated at times (e.g. references to "The League of Nations") and with a somewhat human-centric standpoint, this book contains a lot of really mind-blowing ideas.
Your mind is not limited to your body.
The framework here posits both a mechanism for consciousness to evolve, and a way for it to exist in even the most sociobiological standpoint.
If you're looking for a light read, this isn't your book.
If you're looking for a way to expand your view of yourself, society, and your role in it - this book is for you.
A must-read for anybody interested in symbolic interactionism.Although I would say it is not the easiest read ever, but it is comprehensive enough for people to understand the basics of G.H. Mead. Prof. Morris and some students of Mead edited notes taken at Mead's lectures (which may be one of the most famous courses ever given) and these eventually resulted in  Mind, Self and Society . It may never have been Mead's intention to have his theory divided in three parts. Nevertheless, this book's influence on later sociologists, such as Herbert Blumer, cannot be doubted.
I feel weird, rating a book that is objectively an academic classic and has been out for 70 years, but... darn, this was a hard read. Parts are definitely outdated, and true to academic tradition, the basic concepts could have been explained and summarized in half the page count. But there it is, I read it, I got the gist.(Also, if you are reading this for play theory like I did, spoiler alert: There are only 2 short chapters in there dealing with play. Out of 42)
Yikes! This classic, paradigm-forming tome sets down the groundwork for symbolic interactionism-but it is extremely difficult to read-the writing reads like a translation, even though it is originally written in English. The ideas, though, once you put on your decoder ring, are still relevant today in 2007 as much as they were almost a century ago. ( Most of these are acutlly recollections of students via their lectur notes rather than Mead's actual writing)
An extremely interesting and compelling work that is made even more interesting in understanding its context. While the final section, which in some ways is an almost utopian vision of world peace through an expanded and globalized world runs naive, the understanding of the self as the building block of society, but not an atom, is remarkable and important. It's a classic for a reason.
Must finish this weekend so I can add one sentence to that manuscript before I send it back to the reviewers
Required continual reading for me while in grad school.
Mead argues that individual consciousness is fundamentally not personal, but social.
A work of rare genius and insight. Mead's account for the development of the human sense of self in and through social interaction has yet to be equalled, let alone eclipsed.
