https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15811545-a-tale-for-the-time-being
Till about the second half of part 3, I was all set to give this rave reviews 'cause Nao's story was so compelling and well written plus there wasn't enough of Ruth's woeful tone to grate on the nerves.
Then Ruth's dream sequence comes up and ugh it damn near ruins the bloody book.
The reason it was going to get a great review was the fact that the Nao's sections were well written, dispensing a lot of cultural information without sounding like a lecture.
I listened to this and every time Nao's part was over and Ruth's story came up, I groaned.
The past few years in Tokyo have not been easy for her – she’s been the victim of extreme bullying at the hands of her classmates, and suicide seems to run in the family – but she has a guardian angel in the form of her great-grandmother, Buddhist nun Jiko, who is approaching death at age 104 but still represents the voice of wisdom and a timeless perspective.In a modified epistolary format that includes diaries, letters, e-mails, and an abstract of a disappearing journal article, Ozeki builds her gentle academic mystery: where did the lunchbox come from?
It keeps all the worlds alive.”(This formed part of an article on the Man Booker Prize 2013 shortlist for Bookkaholic.)
Adding to the growing darkness is the addition of Nao's great-uncle Haruki's secret diary, which contains some of the most horrific things that were done in WWII -- none of that new to me but still haunting, that being a good word for the whole of this novel.And so many themes, ones I love, ones that I saw in new ways, mostly to do with time and being (and non-being), as you might guess from the title, but still much more: memory, dreams, the effects of violence, stories, reading and writing (who is actually calling into being, creating, whom?).
Struggling to finish a memoir about her mother, Ruth decides to read the writing of sixteen-year-old Nao Yasutani, a Tokyo resident who moved back to Japan from California with her parents following the dot.com bubble crash.
Ozeki weaves all of these storylines by showing how family history repeats itself with Yaruki #1 and Yaruki #2, and with Yaruki #1 and Nao. Ruth and Oliver contemplate all of these stories as they read the diary, and are left wondering if Nao perishes in the tsunami or if she somehow survived in time.
Her now is in the past, but Nao becomes Ruth’s present.Many years after Nao’s abominable teenage years, Ruth, the story’s main character – a writer and student of Zen Buddhism, much like Ruth, the book’s author – finds the journal.
It is a story of images, of settings, nuances and breath which, like Nao’s diary and the old letters Ruth has translated, “reveals its meaning slowly, and is as intimate as skin.”Ozeki juxtaposes the peace of Ruth’s isolation and simple life on the island with the chaos of Nao’s Tokyo.
Bound by the hardcover of Proust’s À la recherche du temps perdu or In Search of Lost Time, it opens with an almost cheerful declaration of suicide by a young girl called Naoko from halfway across the world.Contrary to what anyone in her place would do, Ruth decides to pace her reading.
Ruth reading Nao's diary is the bigger story.
Like I said, an assortment platter.Let's talk about Nao first.
In fact, I don't think I'm supposed to understand the whole thing.Irrespective of my rating, A Tale for the Time Being is the kind of book I will remember.
"A Tale for The Time Being" came out the same year that "The Goldfinch" won The Pulitzer Prize.
I like this book so much --that after I read it on Netgalley -- I went and bought a physical copy.
(which I still own) BRILLIANT -- INTIMATE -- ENLIGHTENING This is the most UN-ordinary Fiction book I've read all year!
Muji said its the most important bone, the one we call an Adam's apple in English, but in Japanese, it's called the Throat Buddha, because it's triangular and looks a little bit like the shape of a person sitting zazen.
And I’m not hot to tell my friends that the meal didn’t do me like it did them.Like the meal, this book has a whole lot of good.
I sort of wish the whole book had been her journal; Ruth's story just wasn't as interesting and I kept wanting to get back to Nao. Nao's comments about the oddness and beauty and interconnectivity of time are playful and profound.
At the end of the book, the author suddenly decided to teach us dimwits about the beauty of quantum physics.
I’m reading along thinking this was a realistic story, when I suddenly run into magic.
What disappointed me most was Ozeki's unabashed pandering to the Western reader and reducing Nao's life to the melodramatic plot from a campy J-dorama.
Even the more sublime and endearing bits featuring Jiko, the hundred and four years old Zen Buddhist nun and former anarcho-feminist-novelist, who gives Nao her 'supapawa' to grapple with the cruelties of everyday life, fail to cancel out the annoyance of the cliche plot points.
I do not mind a plot straying into the domain of absurdity for the sake of enforcing some token symbolism (the significance of the writer-reader bond in this case), but there has to be some kind of cohesion between the disparate worlds of reality and far-fetched possibility which this novel unfortunately lacked.
Warning - everyone else in this world loves this book.
It is the story of a teenager, Nao, in Toyko who decides to pour her soul into a diary that washes ashore in Canada into the hands of an author.
The author becomes obsessed with Nao who tells the story (actually not really) of her great grandmother, a Buddhist Nun. There are a ton of themes including East vs.
Basically it is a metaphysical novel.
Ozeki did create haunting characters and I will remember the basic storyline.
As I said, I am the only one who isn't enraptured by this book.
Wonderful tale of a woman writer in a remote coastal village in British Columbia, Ruth, whose writer’s block gets extended when she starts reading the journals of a Japanese girl, Nao, which washes up on the shore in a waterproof box.
Ruth paces her reading to match that of its writing and devotes her other time to internet searching for clues to the identity of the girl in hopes of finding out if she is alive.
4.5 starsReally interesting plot, compelling writing, and this book really made me think. I love how it has actual nuggets of information, so I actually learned things from this book, both about science and Japanese culture/Buddhism. I would recommend this one, but trigger warning for suicide and bullying.
The beach is on an island off the coast of British Columbia and the bag is found by Ruth, a local writer (it’s funny how so many novels feature writers).
Ruth discovers that the diary is written by a girl named Nao and it tells the story of her life in America and then in Japan.
In fact, as I worked my way through this book I began to find the stories of this pair ever more enticing – more so than those of Nao and Ruth, in fact.
Whilst there is an ongoing tension regarding what will eventually come to pass regarding Nao and her family, much of the focus is on Ruth and Oliver.
Handwriting, by contrast, resists the eye, reveals its meaning slowly, and is as intimate as skin.""That's what it feels like when I write, like I have this beautiful world in my head, but when I try to remember it in order to write it down, I change it, and I can't ever get it back.""Do all kids have to worry about their parents’ mental health?
And when I multiplied that sad feeling by all the millions of people in their lonely little rooms, furiously writing and posting to their lonely little pages that nobody has time to read because they’re all so busy writing and posting, it kind of broke my heart.""Both life and death manifest in every moment of existence.
The novel switches between the perspectives of two characters: sixteen-year-old Nao and Ruth, a struggling novelist.
As a WoC, it was an incredibly refreshing read.And I want to eat the book, so, sorry Eliza.–Mal Sotofrom The Best Books We Read In June 2017: https://bookriot.com/2017/07/03/riot-...____________________A Tale for the Time Being patted me on the head and then tore my heart out through my throat.
I’m just a little bit mad that it kept me up with existential angst at night, but it’s still one of the best books I’ve read, ever.
–Rachel Smalter HallFrom The Best Books We Read in January: http://bookriot.com/2015/02/02/riot-r...
The author of the new story inside Marcel Prost's In Search of Lost Time's cover, was Naoko Yusatan, or just Nao, a fifteen-year-old Japanese girl who used to live in the USA but had to return with her parents to Japan after the Dot-Com bust.
I mean, there I was, sitting in a French maid café in Akiba, thinking about lost time, and old Marcel Proust was sitting in France a hundred years ago, writing a whole book about the exact same subject.
What a mess. I mean, a mess. There's so much excessive writing here, I was astounded at the sheer lack of editing and pruning--which this read needs a lot of.That was the first that annoyed me. Details that are so stupid and repetitive, meaningless fodder that is in the way of getting on with a story. I was astounded at how there was no real story here. A lot of good writing, albeit excessive, that goes nowhere.A good 200 pages could have been excised, and maybe there would besomething worth reading.
If a train that travels 3 kilometers per minute goes y kilometers in x minutes, then…etc., my mind would go numb and all I could think about was how a body would look at the moment of impact, and the distance a head might be thrown on the tracks, and how far the blood would spatter. Listen up. The world doesn't live on humanity. Japan isn’t a great thing to be a free anything, because free just means all alone and out of it. Listen up. The world doesn't give a fuck about you. "To a writer, this
Everyone learns early on that an income is only guaranteed by how quickly one may transcribe the weight of a human life into a point, the point into statistics, the statistics into a graph, ending with an overheard conversation of mine where one white male engineer told another white male engineer that he had it all wrong, the car wasn't screwed up just because three people died in accidents caused by the same flaw, you didn't need to pull back production and pay out the gains and suffer a loss for a paltry number of fatalities that didn't even amount to a standard deviation on the scale of sales over time.
"In reality, every reader, while he is reading, is the reader of his own self. The writer’s work is merely a kind of optical instrument, which he offers to the reader to permit him to discern what, without the book, he would perhaps never have seen in himself. The reader’s recognition in his own self of what the book says is the proof of its truth." Can I just say (Of course you can. Who's stopping you?) that this book blew my mind! I have that ridiculous Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventures exp
Although a work of fiction, I liked that Ruth and her husband live seemingly identical lives to the author, Ozeki; this gives the book an almost autobiographical feel to it.There's not too much more I can say without giving away any of the plot, but just trust that you will be in for a real, unpredictable ride.
It was a wonderful book, and I empathized with Ruth when she read the final page of the diary.
The words continued, she read them to the end, and then at the bottom of the page, they stopped.
in this sense, it's a great, great book to read during the holidays (which is when i read it) because the holidays are all about tolerating time.also, and crucially for this reader, this is a kick ass story, told in alternating chapters by a japanese teenager who spent the first 15 years of her life in sunnyvale, california, and a japanese american writer (who goes by the name of ruth and resembles the author in just about every respect we are able to detect) who found the girl's diary and notes in a message-in-a-bottle set of hermetically sealed ziplock bags which may or may not have drifted all the way from fukushima as a consequence of the tsunami.the voice of the teenager is fantastic and brave and occasionally hilarious.
Here are a few trigger warning topics to be aware of in this book (stop reading if you don't want to know):-Bullying/Hazing-Suicide-Depression-Attempted Rape-Child ProstitutionYes, all of that crammed into 432 pages.
Here's the thing- I don't mind reading about characters going through abuse.
It's as if the author went, Hmm how am I going to torture Nao today?Some problematic things that bugged me:-Every young female mentioned (from the main character's pov) has it out for her.
What's even worse is that Nao bullies someone herself yet that gets brushed over.Other things that bugged me:-Schrödinger's cat.
Can books stop mentioning this, please?
If you would like to join the discussion here is the link: https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...I would rate this book 4.5 stars, because at the end it seemed really fictional.
I lived in Japan for the summer of 2014 and my best friend there was named Nao, just like the main character in this book.
As the mystery of its contents unfolds, Ruth is pulled into the past, into Nao’s drama and her unknown fate, and forward into her own future."I highly recommend this book!
I've just finished reading and really enjoyed this book with all of it's complexities.
In it, Ruth, an author, finds, among other things, a diary written by a Japanese teenager describing her difficult life.
Then of course, there is the woman we know as the author Ruth Ozeki.
For me this novel is a vehicle for so many layers of meaning that I believe I will be thinking about it for a while and probably will read it again.
As Ruth reads the diary and desperately searches for Nao, we learn about her life as well and find that the two women overlap in surprising ways: both are Japanese-Americans, both are transplants to a place and culture not their own, both have somewhat strained relationships with the men in their lives, both have strong connections to a revered female elder, both feel a failed sense to accomplish what they want in their writing, both have an expatriate's experience of 9/11, both worry about losing time.
"The way you write Ronin is 浪人 with the character for wave and the character for person, which is pretty much how I feel, like a little wave person, floating around on the stormy sea of life," she says.
“I find myself drawn to literature more now than in the past; not the individual works as much as the idea of literature—the heroic effort and nobility of our human desire to make beauty of our minds—which moves me to tears, and I have to brush them away, quickly, before anyone notices.”The contrast between such loving, heart warming things and the dark topics covered by Ozeki still amazes me.
I'm spellbound by this book. It's so thought provoking and the writing is so lyrical and melancholic. The ideas in this book will stay with me for a long time. One of my favourites, definitely!
I wish I could have read this wonderful novel of ideas in one sitting because it requires you to slow down and let its story and themes open up like a flower that takes a long time to open up and bloom.
The characters are full-blooded and enticing, their struggles across time and geography deeply moving.
A novel generous and bold enough to let us connect the dots or simply gaze in awe at its infinite possibilities.
She and her husband theorized that it might have been caught up in the ocean currents traveling from Japan after the 2011 tsunami.The book is a copy of Proust's "A la Recherche du Temps Perdu" ("In Search of Lost Time") with the pages cut out and replaced with blank pages.
Nao also contemplated ending her life.A bright spot was a summer spent with her great grandmother, a Zen Buddist nun over a hundred years old.
Jiko teaches her to do zagen, a meditation to enter time completely.Nao started the diary intending it to also tell the story of her great grandmother's life.
“I don’t care about other worlds.
I care whether she’s dead or alive in this world.
I have said this before but this book has bent my mind, like origami, or time."The Zen nun Jiko Yasutani once told me in a dream that you can’t understand what it means to be alive on this earth until you understand the time being, and in order to understand the time being, she said, you have to understand what a moment is."
Her eyes are milky and blue because of her cataracts, and when she turns them inward, its like she’s moving into another world thats frozen deep inside ice, Jiko calls her cataracts Kuuge which means “flowers of emptiness.” I think thats beautiful.” “Sometimes when grown-ups are talking to you, and you stare back at them, they start to like they’re inside one of those old-fashioned TV sets, the kind with the thick dark glass, and you can see their mouths moving, only the exact words get drowned out into a lot of staticky white noise so you can barely understand them, which didn’t matter because I wasn’t listening anyway.
