https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2132254.The_Maker_of_Universes
Suddenly in the closet a portal to another world appeared with a guy on the other side blowing a horn.
Wolff did and found a paradise, so did not think twice about leaving behind his boring retired life and nagging wife and to the new world he went.
There is no way I am spoiling this, but there are two hints in the book and series names about it.
I definitely continue reading the series, but its first installment is not strong enough to warrant 4.
Durante una visita a una vivienda, Wolff vislumbra un mundo asombroso, donde un personaje le ofrece un extraño cuerno.
Y aquí es donde empezarán las aventuras para Wolff, en un universo creado por seres, casi semidioses, poseedores de una avanzada tecnología.
La mayoría de habitantes de este universo, formado por varios niveles, lo constituyen híbridos de personas y animales, capricho de los experimentos de uno de los señores creadores.‘El hacedor de universos’ (The Maker of Universes, 1965), del estadounidense Philip José Farmer, es un buena novela de aventuras, mezcla de ciencia ficción y fantasía, precursora de lo que sería la gran obra de Farmer, El Mundo del Río.
As an exercise in world building, World of Tiers is very interesting. That's about it, though. I enjoyed it on a pulpy quick read level. However, I wouldn't recommend it to anyone looking for a deep involving novel. The Plot Robert Wolff is a retired linguistics professor looking at homes to buy in Arizona. While inspecting a room alone, a gate to the world of tiers opens before him. He steps through and finds a world where mermaids and nymphs exist. After a few weeks of eating the food and drin
The world of tiers is a pretty cool invention.
When the sun goes behind the monoliths in the middle of the world, that's when night occurs.People get from level to level by climbing the nooks and crannies of the massive monoliths in the middle of each level.
I liked this world building aspect of the novel the most.
For instance, while climbing the central monoliths, one of the character's girlfriends becomes pregnant and later loses the baby.
It's a good enough read but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who isn't a big fan of world building.
There are some holes in the story, but it still stands as a fun, quick read.
The series was completed in the 90's, a 14 year gap between books 5 & 6.
When I first read this, what impressed me most, was the new (to me, then) idea of private universes & worlds that Farmer came up with & how he handled them.
------- Spoiler below ---------Farmer posits a race that humans are descended from & our 'Earth' is just one more private universe.
The main character of the series is Kickaha, the merry knave that first introduces Wolf to the new universe.
The twist at the end is not a huge surprise, and despite the fantastic creatures along the way, the book drags.
Actually, it is mainly because of the creatures and landscapes along the way that the plot drags.
Rather than learning about the land and animals and people through plot, we get a lot of expoistion.
A lot of which is unclear why we needed it.
Farmer seems to have gotten so excited about the world he created, and the backstor he formulated, that we need to hear all about it, even when the plot just freezes while he tells us.
Going through it, he finds a bizarre world of stacked disks on a spindle, full of danger, weird environments, and beautiful women.Review:Pretty much my entire, limited knowledge of Philip Jose Farmer comes from the Riverworld series.
But it turns out that the bits I didn’t like – the macho tone, the occasional lack of logic – are very much a part of the Farmer approach.
In this book, they’re the main part.It appears Farmer had a modestly intriguing idea – the stacked world of tiers, and ran with it.
It’s all manly men, beautiful, obedient women, and a very thin plot tied together with an almost complete lack of logic.
Philip José Farmer, Il fabbricante di universi (The maker of universe, 1965)Ennesimo romanzo sugli universi paralleli, del genere che un tempo si sarebbe chiamato Avventura.Insomma, è scritto bene, c'è azione, ci sono continue scazzottate, assomiglia al classico fantasy gruppo-che-ha-un'impresa-da-compiere, ma non ha nient'altro.
Ma poi Farmer si lascia prendere la mano dalle banalità.Insomma, se cercate un romanzo d'avventura e azione, più che di fantascienza pura, va benissimo.
Ma per chi, come me, non apprezza costruzioni grosse ma vuote, prive di fascino e che non lasciano a bocca aperta, tirate dritto.Come ho scritto più volte, la vera fantascienza è altro.
Also I really loved the orientation sequence to the fantasy world.
I have still have a lot of trouble grasping and keeping track of weird fantasy names though, like in the Hobbit.
At some point in this book, I found myself reading about centaurs, and I couldn’t remember them being introduced.
A little later it was bird knights or something and I couldn’t remember when they had been introduced either.
It’s like a fantasy trope tossed salad.
Usually Farmer is great at evoking visuals, but I couldn’t really picture the shape and scale of this Tier world very well.
I have read so many books from this era with this similiar plot.
The Narnia/Wizard of Oz/Alice in Wonderland theme of a modern day character unsatisfied with life being transported to a magical world.
I may have read it before but this is one of the better ones.
Nice writing and world building.
Doesn't really stand up to current fantasy or science fiction but an above average example of the golden age of pulp.
Recommended to both fans of fantasy and science fiction.
To anyone interested in this era of writing.
And to fans of Guy Gavriel Kay's Fionavar series as well as the books named above.
Been awhile but I remember searching all over to find (remember) this series, I could only remember kickaha or something like that to go on my search on finding these again... this was before the computer era of everything at your fingertip's. Fun read kind of like the Amber series but different heh' 4-6 in series and everyone just pulls you along, and end's up in "our" world if I remember right. best be on the re-read shelf'
As one does with friends we were passing around books or at least buying the same books.
Some author would became the thing to read and Farmer was one.
I think I liked the idea of this book more than the book.
Over time I read quite a few of Farmer’s novels.
As an adult reader I’ve taken a couple looks back.
I was recently looking at Hadon of Ancient Opar ( because Burroughs ) but concluded that he rather bored me.
So I hate to dump on Mr Farmer, but I can’t read them anymore.
Disappointing, largely because I remember enjoying this book so much in middle school.
Reading it now, I can't get past the poor characterization and the growing sense that this whole series is just fantasy fulfillment for a middle-aged white guy.
(How did this not annoy me as a teen girl?) The world-building is the best part; the World of Tiers is fascinating.
I remember reading eagerly for the adventure, the challenging puzzles, and the wit and cleverness of Kickaha - but so far, I'm 100 pages in and that just hasn't happened.
I'm giving up before they get to the Lord's palace.
It was an interesting book, but the reader is thrown into the adventure extremely quickly, and it ends just as abruptly which was disconcerting to say the least.
(Haven't read any of those personally )Then there's some nonsense with medieval knights, and I am not particularly amused, then for the finale I imagine the cheesiest, campiest sort of 1970s scifi flick- the Prisoner meets Planet of the Apes meets Star Trek meets, monkeys fighting robots with cheesy control panels, with Lords with rivalries like in Doctor Who!
i have not read this author before, in spite of me being a sci fi fan. but having read him now, i am not surprised i do not know this guy. his is in the tradition of rice burroughs, hero landing in a primitive world , and grappling with the villians and the nubile females. the book i got is a compilation of 3 of the novels in this series. i did not like it and could not finish the series. too boring.
Great fantasy/SiFi series. Farmer is one of my top 5 favorite writers. Very recommended
Really liked it when I read it growing up. Have to read it again to comment though.
I read this because after finishing The Great Book of Amber I learned that the World Of Tiers series had a great influence on Roger Zelazny.
Since I already had this sitting on the shelf, I went for it.This was definitely a product if its time, where men are macho and women are either nagging, becoming hysterical, or just being eye candy.
Farmer strays a bit from this archetype, but not far.
Released in 1965, this is a fun adventure fantasy that combines elements of Homer, Quatermain, Tolkien, King Arthur and other classic influences. It’s a bit corny at times and can come across as a bad B movie at points but it was an enjoyable read. There is also some confusing gaping holes and a rushed feel in many places particularly I. The end that an author wouldn’t get away with today but oh well. Looking forward to the second in the series. Thanks Sergiy for the recommendation.
I was ready to leave a really bad review of this book. Poorly written, ridiculous names, moronic dialogue. But then I changed my outlook. I realized this is just pulp sci-fi from the 60’s. I began to enjoy this a whole lot more. I laughed at the silly names and the poor writing. From a pulp point of view it’s a whole lot better than the Lensman series. For sci-fi historians and pulp aficionados only.
Pretty mind blowingly awesome.Whatch out for that talos!lolz!!gullivers travels meets conan the barbarian with bit of doctor who thrown inwhats not to like?main fighter is a guy named kickaha a trickster fighterand lord jadawin is superhuman doc savage kinda dude with bit of doctor whomostly awesome ideas sometimes writing is a bit out there but mostly its awesome and mind blowing
I have no idea what this author is trying to do. Great ideas, nonsensical plot and nonexistent ending.
It was not as good as I remembered when I read it as a kid. But it was still pretty good, especially the ending. Nice little twist.
not as exciting as it were during my teen age :)
Impressive book, read it long time ago, re-read June 2017. Has a good story, really well described characters and just was amazing.When you start to read it you can't stop :)
A great read. Have always loved Farmer, whom I haven't read in years, and decided it was time to correct that.
3 1/2 stars.
It's Phil's centennial, and I plan to read 24 books by him this year.
His preoccupations with religion, sex, and society resonate with me.THE GOOD:In this novel, there were moments where Phil's cleverness was on display.
He takes time to outlay the physics of the World of Tiers.
Early on, the protagonist abandons his nagging wife back on "our" world (without notice) and thinks of her maybe once after that.
The other prominent woman in the story is basically an object for the protagonist's desire.
I liked this book but definitely not my fav from Farmer either in general or from the 60s.
The writing is a fairly standard old-school sword and planet, with all the greatness and problems of the genre.
But Farmer puts it on top of very cool worlds, the “world of tiers”.
If it had been written in 1955 instead of 1965, it would have been more awesome.The world is basically a D&D dungeon, without the dungeon: that is, levels of danger set above-ground instead of below.
Unfortunately, even though that’s the draw of the book, we really don’t see much at all of the levels except the first one.I’m guessing that AD&D’s axebeak came directly from this story; both are types of giant ostrich.
The Maker of Universes, Philip Jose FarmerSpoiler Alert.
This is Philip Jose Farmer after all.
And this World of Tiers series is one of his best, and The Maker of Universes, is the novel that launched the series.
An author in Philip Jose Farmer's day was in high demand if he was good.
I take exception with the Goodreads phrase “unlike any science-fiction novel you have ever read, it is wonderfully unique.” Here's why...The Maker of Universes is a connect the dots classic quest plot.
well reading the novel and discovering the portrayal of our beautiful world is part of the journey.
