https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/581720.The_Passion_of_New_Eve
You have to read this book just for the plot which involves, and I'm not making this up, all of the following:-post-apocalyptic America-force sex-changed Evelyn (it's British) to Eve-a tribe of Amazonian super-women-a goddess with 6 breasts-a cult of an androcentric self-created demigod-a love story between an MTF and FTM-LA in flames- and a boat.I mean, come on, how can you not read this.
There will be minor spoilers; necessary to have any meaningful discussion of the novel; however in many ways the plot isn’t the point, the ideas are.
The focus of the novel is Evelyn, an Englishman starting a university job in New York.
Having been abusive towards a woman in New York called Leilah, Eve now experiences a male world.
The experiences that follow result in comprehension rather than integration.Carter’s America is a dystopia, dividing into factions.
The urban landscape of New York (where the novel starts) is grim and decaying, illustrated by the language Carter uses; especially the colours (acid yellow, mineral green).
However, film, viewed in a dark room, in a cinema, might be more social, if not necessarily more objective (if there is such a thing).Evelyn, the male narrator, starts the novel with a scene in a London cinema in which he receives a blow job, while watching Tristessa, the most beautiful woman in the world, on screen.
Should come with a trigger warning for rape, sexual abuse, forced surgery, paedophilia and transphobia.Do I think this book is important?
Did I like it?
I'm not sure, but I'm leaning towards 'no'.
The symbolism is so overt that I'm not sure it can even actually be called symbolism - it's like getting symbolism tipped over your head, or funneled straight into your throat so that you can't miss any of it.
Slightly subtle intertextual moments are explained pages later as obviously as possible.This is a very second-wave book, and as such it reproduces and reinforces many of the problems with second wave feminism.
Le differenze uomo/donna (fisiche o di ruolo) sono rimesse in discussione, ribaltate, sottoposte ad un processo di fusione che non fa più distinguere i confini costruiti da una società patriarcale.
Sesso, violenza ma, soprattutto, un’artificiosa costruzione letteraria dove la Carter adatta gli archetipi di genere costruendoci attorno una storia.Un risultato macchinoso, pesante, nauseante che vuole rappresentare la nascita di nuovi ruoli che vanno al di là dei recinti del genere.
La nuova Eva è la donna rigenerata perché prende coscienza dei suoi limiti ma soprattutto di quelle capacità che le erano negate.
you ARE a heretic. burn, heretic, burn!
Evelyn, as is probably self-evident from the title and is hardly a spoiler, becomes in the course of the novel, the New Eve. Gender & body politics ensue in wonderfully fascinating ways--Carter really presages later theorists like Wittig, Butler, Sedgwick &co in her refusal to facilitate the coherence of the 'I,' of the self, of gender, of the sexed body.
The thing, I think, that separates Carter's great work from her truly brilliant work is a distinction in emphasis; this novel, like Heroes & Villains and The Infernal Desire Machines, is a novel OF ideas.
I don't really get the pleasure of reading Angela Carter.
Her writing is powerful, passionate (except where intentionally deliberate and emotionally parched), every word is perfectly chosen.
I can imagine the editing that goes into it.
But I just can't enjoy them.
I find Angela Carter's work nigh on unpalatable, and would much rather read half a dozen Norse sagas instead.
And psst -- a secret: I hated the Contemporary Women's Writing module.
But Angela Carter is apparently the point where I grumble and say that learning Anglo-Saxon is easier.
I'd read Carter's debut Magic Toyshop and it's solid, engaging, well-constructed -- but didn't bowl me over with Carter's reputation as a master fantasist exactly.
I read this largely over a road trip which served as fitting parallel map.
We left New York juat as Carter's young British protagonist Evelyn callously fled his unconsidered actions there, wound through the desert as Evelyn did and stood by primal lakes as he sank into the womb of the sands, emerged towards the California coast as he did, though perhaps less obviously altered by our experiences (Maya and I have retained our genders).
A new favorite.
I think I didn't like Passion of New Eve, but I also know that I read it in two sittings and was always curious about what would happen next.
Gender fluidity is a key component of sexual dreams, but the the contemporary reader must wince over the conflation of gender identity and biology here.In terms of the feminism, I thought that much of the over-the-topness here can be somewhat explained by Carter's parroting of the heterosexual male voice.
The choice of America (and the focus on the silver screen), has me thinking about the role of American movies in the performance of gender.
Into the lawless chaos of New York City arrives the young British man Evelyn, who soon shacks up with a teenaged exotic dancer named Leilah.
Beneath the desert floor, deep in the bowels of the Earth, Evelyn will undergo an unwilling transformation and emerge as Eve. Foiling the future plans of the architects of this transformation, Eve escapes into the desert, only to fall into another type of bondage, this time at the hands of a one-legged sadist.
The story is cyclical, embodying as it does Eve(lyn)'s destiny.
Published in 1977, this work is unlikely to tarnish anytime soon.
*Rated 3.5/5 stars
Another review says that the book is about a man suffering the treatment that he dished out to women - and yes, part of the book, a small part, is about that - but what of the rest?For instance I wonder what to make of the fact that Evelyn lost his desire for Leilah when she became pregnant, and that when Eve became pregnant, the copious sex forced on her vanishes - she is captured by children, religious children, old enough to be sexual, but who want only her mothering.
What.Wait. Hang on.... What.Okay, so yes. This in an interesting book. A bizarre, hallucinatory, interesting book that explores sex and gender and mythology. And... What. So yes. A man gets kidnapped on his way across an America which is about to decay into civil war by a group of women who turn him into a woman. Then... forget it, you'll just have to read it.I'm going to apologize here for not writing a very structured review; I think this book would defy any attempt on my part to do so.I know
forget it, you'll just have to read it.I'm going to apologize here for not writing a very structured review; I think this book would defy any attempt on my part to do so.I know nothing about feminist literature whatsoever, but I think this one falls into post-feminism?
I don't know what that means, but it makes for a strange read.
This doesn't seem like the kind of book you can breeze over; it's fairly rife with references to mythology and other things, some strange words (any excuse to get a dictionary out though, huh?), symbolism and...
Having seen firsthand all too much of the bitterness and violence that some feminists whose awareness was cemented during the late seventies rise of exclusionary radical feminism and the expulsion of radical trans women like Carol Riddell or Sandy Stone from the groups they'd long called home, can and still do espouse towards trans women, I know full well that Carter isn't writing Eve's story as an affirmation of her womanhood.
The story involves a futuristic, apocalyptic world where the main character travels from London to New York to take a job as a college lecturer.
Yet even then I saw fragments of old movies playing like summer lightning on the lucid planes of his face, the shadow show upon the bare bones beneath - I'd know your bones on Golgotha, although you seem to have a hundred faces, so many moods cover it so quickly.
It had a hint of the worlds so vibrantly created by the likes of Neil Gaiman and David Lynch.
I'd read a few novels and short stories of Angela Carter's before and she was fast becoming my favourite author.
This sounded wild enough for me to enjoy.
Needless to say, I can see where a reader might be turned off by a story about a man kidnapped by rabid feminists who surgically turn him into a woman, but I admire Angela Carter's unapologetic way of writing about such huge taboos (and having written in the 1960s-1970s, this was very taboo back then) as if it's just an ordinary thing.
I thoroughly enjoyed every mad twist and turn.
I have long enjoyed Angela Carter's works; she is an intelligent, talented, wordsmith, with often absorbing tales that take the reader into the labyrinth of human psyche.
The content of this novel is nothing more than a contrived, over-wrought hallucinogenic induced nightmare of militant feminist struggle and post apocalyptic hubris.
I was curious enough to read it all the way through, which says something, but these days I prefer literature with more substance and less histrionics to get an idea across.
This I read as a twenty-something recent college graduate, hungry for feminist revenge.
It is the story of Evelyn, an arrogant professor, who is surgically transformed against his will into the female version of himself, "Eve" by a self-styled mother goddess named Sophia.
Kidnapped and recruited by a one-eyed, one-legged man named Zero for his harem, Eve eventually escapes to make love with a famous silent film star named Tristessa, who turns out to be a man.
Tristessa is then killed by a marauding band of teenage boys, and ultimately Eve is reborn, rejecting her male chauvinist past, and launching herself into the ocean.
Carter’s novel opens with Evelyn in a cinema receiving a blowjob from a young woman whose name he does not remember.
He slinks back to his miserable walk up on the Lower East Side, wires home for money, and decides to see what will come his way.On a risky nocturnal trip to the supermarket, Evelyn encounters Leilah.
Evelyn drops another wad of cash at the nurse’s station, rents a car, and hightails it for the Great American West.At this point, Carter’s novel starts to get really strange.
Surreal, disturbing, abrasive yet also colourful and strangely illuminating in places, this book is definitely a rough diamond - and frankly should be more well-known.
This may be one of my favourite books - I'm a sucker for a surreal, dark piece of literature and I enjoy reading work that is shaped by a feminist stance, as this one is.
I can't wait to get my hands on more of Carter's works; if they are anything like this one then I'll be in for a treat, and a creepy, dirty treat at that!
To that kind of world-building, you can go in two different ways - you can either decide that it is not worth your time and abandon the book entirely, muttering about it stretching disbelief like chewed gum, OR you could stop trying to suspend your disbelief altogether, sit back and enjoy the ride.I did the latter.
Angela Carter is one of the few writers who makes me jealous.
Usually I just sit back and enjoy good writing without a twinge, but there is something about the way she uses words, turns phrases, describes the indescribable that I really envy.
But it is quite mad.
Enjoyably so, intriguingly so, but hard to rate because it really is quite mad.
I really couldn't tell how I felt about it when I finished it, nor decide what it meant to me, nor even quite figure out just what it was all about.
I couldn't tell you.
I found this too hard to get into and in the end just plugged on through it.
I have LOVED all the other Angela Carter I've read, the eloquent density, the sureness of self, the tangible biological feminine feminist fecundity of the whole fuckin' thing.
There's just so much allusion and confusion in it - literally, as the protagonist is kidnapped, whirled around, made to crawl through caves - it makes for a claustrophobic read.
If you've not read Ange before, do, but don't start here.Ed
Overall I was really disappointed by this book, and not because it's a post-apocalyptic gender nightmare, but because the writing starts off really strong - so does the "concept," but eventually the entire thing just falls apart in the messiest of ways.
In the end, I suppose this story was a love story, but that's all.
The main character is thrown into a world where everything is up in the air - gender, identity, politics, love, violence, etc, but I stopped caring.
It seemed like the writing started out telling a story, but ended up trying to push an agenda.
How's this for complicating the already dizzying concept of gender: Man comes to United States. Man is kidnapped by renegade woman cult. Man is taken underground. Man is surgically made into woman. Cult tries to impregnate woman with his own semen.Get the picture? This rarely read post-feminist gem is a must read for everyone. And that's final.
This torpid novel will teach you a lesson in just how pitiful your imagination actually is. You may also learn about the geography of a post-apocalyptic America from the point of view of a cloak-wearing, British socialist.
wow this is probably one of the weirdest book I have ever read !!!! it wasn't the worst book but it definitely wasn't the best either ..✨ 2.6 STARS ✨
It's the real world but it's a little off kilter and you have to just let it draw you in and go along for the ride.The Passion of New Eve is based on the life altering experiences of Evelyn.
He is the New Eve.This is where it gets a wee bit off kilter because it does seem like a fantastical thing to happen but there it is.
Go along for the rde!As the new Eve Evelyn has been made into his own idea of perfect feminine beauty.
As a woman he experiences all the things he has bestowed on women when he himself was a man.
I read Carter's short story collection Fireworks: Nine Profane Pieces a few years ago.
Leilah becomes his sex slave before he runs off after putting her through a botched abortion, riding as far west as he can.Evelyn is captured by an all-female biker gang and taken underground as a prisoner of Mother, an enormous fertility goddess of a woman with other women's breasts sewn to her chest, a tribute from her Amazonian guard.
Eve, still aware of her former maleness but living in the body of a women, escapes to the desert and is captured by a Manson-like gang led by Greek poet Zero.
