https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9873.Dangling_Man
Having a lot of time to think and observe is enlightening, and incredibly depressing.The protagonist goes through alienation from different groups, first in his head, then in verbal outbursts, which constitute the last reactions in a long chain of causes and effects in his mind, but come as a complete surprise to his family and friends, who do not follow his preceding thoughts, and only judge the ultimate anger and frustration he shows.
This is Saul Bellow’s debut novel, published in 1944, so during the Second World War. It consists of Joseph’s personal diary entries dating from December 15, 1942, to April 9, 1943.
He has lived in the US for eighteen years, and he says he wants to go fight in the war.
These lines I like a lot.As we proceed through the book we not only hear Joseph’s thoughts but also see what he does.
I like how his thoughts and actions and diary entries reflect each other.I like the final message of the book.
(view spoiler)[Few people can handle freedom; many want to be told what to do.
I do not know how that word is spelled, but I'll write it here by the way it sounds: POO-CHOOT (the OOs like in choo-choo train).
One room holds me."The poo-choots of our town are, indeed, good men.
Keeping themselves in one place, with very little opportunity to do great evil, they approach the end of their lives not having stolen taxpayers' money, or lied to the public to conceal crimes, or facilitated corrupt transactions, wronged people for career advancements, cheated on their wives, or did all the other evil things men do when they reject the option to just "dangle" along.
Beklemenin ve boşluğun insanı bir elektrikli süpürge gibi vakumlayıp sorgulama girdabına çektiğini ve sonunda posasını çıkarıp torbaya tıktığını sade bir dille anlatan kitap. Sorgulama döneminde okununca çok iyi gelmiyor efendim. Bir yandan da tam da o boşlukta sallanılan dönemde net anlaşılan bir atmosferi, psikolojisi var kitabın. Ne diyeyim, kolay gelsin.
"To be pushed upon oneself entirely put the very facts of simple existence in doubt..."منتظر يك twist  پاياني بودم كه بهش پنج بدم؛ نداشت، ندادم...چرا خوندنش انقدر طول كشيد؟چون راوي خيلي غرغرو بود...دو تا كار از بلو خوندم به علاوه ي يكي دو تا مقاله از يك مجموعه مقالات.
بخش زيادي از هر دو كتاب به پرداختن به آنچه در ذهن كاركتر ها ميگذره اختصاص داده شده و در حالي كه راوي اون كتاب داناي كل و سوم شخصه و اين يكي اول شخص هر دو تقريبا از يك قاعده پيروي ميكنن.
It was probably not the best choice of introduction to Bellow – I’ll try Augie March or Herzog next – but I happened to find a cheap paperback copy in Oxfam and thought I might as well start there, having had my interest in Bellow piqued by James Atlas’ The Shadow in the Garden.The narrator, Joseph, lives with his wife Iva in a Chicago boarding house while he waits to be called up for war service.
(He also likens a piano’s keys to the teeth of a “darky entertainer”!)I enjoyed the philosophical arguments about the vanishing importance of the individual and the descriptions of rush-hour Chicago, but the plot itself struck me as slender.
I mean, it is beautifully put together, but as I'm reading his books I keep thinking to myself, 'I'm really not enjoying this'.
It is only once it is finished and months later I'm still thinking about the damn thing that I realise just how good he is.
I've often thought this one would make a good film.
If you are an American film maker and are thinking of proving me wrong - don't bother.
It is a very long time since I read this book, but the scene in the coffee shop where he screams at the communist for selling out the movement is still burnt into my soul (or, at least, it would be if I had one).
Saul Bellow wrote Dangling Man when he was about my age and as I read, I recognized some of the thoughts and realizations that Joseph is having.
In one early entry, Joseph writes: "Trouble, like physical pain, makes us actively aware that we are living, and when there is little in the life we lead to hold and draw and stir us, we seek and cherish it, preferring embarrassment or pain to indifference." While I haven't quite experienced this (I was never one to get in too much trouble) it resonates with me because it makes me muse a bit on adolescent rebellion - where it comes from and why it happens.
The reviews of this book seem to split the readers into people who vaguely identify with the fatuous intellectual and those who react and judge from a distance.
He obscures the fact that his choices are simple, to act and join the war effort, growing up through extinction, to obscure himself from the war and make his living some other way, possibly as a scholar, or to moulder on his wife's support.
Bellow allows the uncertain, changing thought process of the intellectual man to murkily reflect an understanding of culture during his time.
اولین کتابی بود که از این نویسنده خوندم و حقیقت اینه که نتونستم باهاش ارتباط برقرار کنم حتی با وجود اینکه کتاب جایزه نوبل 1976 رو هم دریافت کرده! تصمیم گیری درمورد سال بلو رو گذاشتم بعد از خوندن کتاب بعدیش؛ امیدوارم بتونه جزء نویسنده های مورد علاقم قرار بگیره :)) این کتاب منو یاد مورچه آرژانتینی ِ ایتالو کالوینو و همینطور کارکترهای رمان جهالت ِ میلان کوندرا انداخت، حالا شنونده (خواننده) میتونه خودش درمورد این کتاب قضاوت کنه! :) جمله مورد علاقم از این کتاب:عشق موجب بیزاری از زندگی نمی شود. این ناتوانی ما در آزاد زیستن است
داستان به صورت خاطره نویسی مردی کانادایی به اسم جوزفه، سالها سالهای قبل جنگ جهانی دومه وجوزف منتظره که از طرف ارتش امریکا پذیرفته بشه. جوزف تا زمانی که پذیرفته بشه آزاده که هرکاری میخواد بکنه، اما از اسم کتاب مشخصه که جورف در. این شرایط توفیق اجباری معلق میمونه.جمله پایانی کتاب جمع بندی کتاب محسوب میشه.نمیدونم چرا خوندن کتابش علی رغم سوالاتی که راجع به موضوعات مورد علاقه م ؛چرایی زندگی و تنهایی اگزیستانسیالیستی بود بهم نچسبید. و نهایتا به دادن نمره ۲بسنده کردم:/-
داستان به صورت خاطره نویسی مردی کانادایی به اسم جوزفه، سالها سالهای قبل جنگ جهانی دومه و‌جوزف منتظره که از طرف ارتش امریکا پذیرفته بشه. جوزف تا زمانی که پذیرفته بشه آزاده که هرکاری میخواد بکنه، اما از اسم کتاب مشخصه که جورف در. این شرایط توفیق اجباری معلق میمونه.جمله پایانی کتاب جمع بندی کتاب محسوب میشه.نمیدونم چرا خوندن کتابش علی رغم سوالاتی که راجع به موضوعات مورد علاقه م ؛چرایی زندگی و تنهایی اگزیستانسیالیستی بود بهم نچسبید. و نهایتا به دادن نمره ۲بسنده کردم:/-
iki kere orjinalini (pdf) bir kere okuyanus yayınlarından çıkan bir kerede cem yayınlarından çıkan baskısını okudum ve sabaha kadar hakkında konuşabilirim gibi (okuyanus çevirisi berbat, yazım hataları filan can sıkıcı).blogumda da yazmıştım, kendimi tekrar edecek gibi olacağım ama, kafka'nın dönüşüm'ünde gregor samsa modern hayatta iş ve sorumluluklar yüzünden nasıl böceğe dönüşüyorsa joseph de savaş zamanı boş zamanlar, parasızlık ve gittikçe içine battığı öfke, umutsuzluk ve can sıkıntısı ile böcek demeyeyim ama şu anda bizim yaşadığımız 21.
arkadaşları ile paylaştığı bir hayatı kalmamıştı, karısını ona bir şeyleri ima etmekle suçluyor, metresi tat vermiyor, abisinden midesi bulanıyordu.
"Dangling Man," Nobel-Prize-winning author Saul Bellow's first novel (1944), is one of his slighter offerings.
Perhaps he is dangling in another way: he has become too intellectually removed to connect emotionally with his wife Iva or his friends.
While he has now "outgrown" an earlier self, who was a committed political radical, this reader at least could not help but like that earlier self more than the lucid but lost "dangling" man he has become.
For all the genius of this novel, I did not always hold my attention--left me feeling a bit dangling myself---but I am inclined to go on and read other novels from the Bellow oeuvre!
I am the only one in this fifty-three-story building who knows how childish it is.
There is only one worth-while sort of work, that of the imagination." (90-91)This is Bellow's first novel, written in 1944—near the end of World War II and the beginning of U.S. involvement.
It reads and feels much like an American version/extension of the Russian superfluous man motif, although Joseph is supported by his wife (not an inheritance), and it is not quite as good (as, say, Turgenev's Diary of a Superfluous Man or other comparable consciousness-turned-in-upon-itself type novels).
Then, The Adventures Of Augie March, the novel that signalled his worth as a writer: after reading the opening page repeatedly, I knew I couldn’t continue through the whole book doing so, and abandoned it.There’s something about Bellow, though, that makes me persist.
In order to grapple with the beast it seemed a logical idea to dismiss his better known novels as an introduction and to head back to the start, to Dangling Man (1944), under the impression that his earliest work may offer a way in to his style before it solidifies him as that great American writer.Read my full review here.
چون تا زمانی که مرا احاطه کرده بودند وسعت زندگی ام را تضمین می کردند و بسیار با ارزش تر و ضروری تر از زندگی روزمره ای بود که مجبور به ادامه ان بودم .
من نه آن قدر فاسد شده ام و نه آن قدر سرسختم که بتوانم زمانی که زندگی ام در خطر نابودی است از آن لذت ببرم .پ.ن 1: کتابی بسیار زیبا در مورد درد و رنج و مشکلات انسان بی هدف و گمشده قرن فعلی.پ.ن 2: این دومین اثری بود که از نویسنده کانادایی سال بلو می‌خواندم.
دم را دریاب کتاب دیگه ای از این نویسنده برنده جایزه نوبل و پولیتزر است که خواندن اونم به همه دوستان کتابخوان پیشنهاد میکنم
Very good
What keeps it from 4 stars for me is the writing style.
This is the first and only book I've read by Bellows and I have to believe that since it was his first novel his writing greatly improved after completing this.
Whatever my initial impression, this book has sticking power.A very modernist and almost existential work, Bellow explores the condition within which we might find ourselves if all previously held beliefs and structures suddenly vanished.
This is a story of man left completely to his own devices, with no beliefs or structures or have-to-do's available for guidance.
Should've started my Bellow reading with this, I think.
The Dangling Man's fatuous 'philosophy,' either of his younger or older self, made me laugh out loud.
I suspect that's the opposite to the way that Bellow would have had me read it.
So this passage from February 2 is my favourite in the book: "I answered that I was preparing myself spiritually, that I was willing to be a member of the Army, but not a *part* of it.
He thought this a very witty answer.
He believes I am a natural comedian and laughs at everything I say.
"Herkes sarsıntıda, herkes boşlukta. Yaşamayı sürdürebildiğin anda, kendini doğrultmaya başlayabilirsin."Boşlukta ,adeta bir salıncağa binmiş gibi, sallanan bir adam; işini sorumluluk almaktan bıktığı için bırakmış, biraz aylak , biraz serseri , gelecek kaygılarından kurtulmak isteyen, ama anlık kaygılarından kurtulamayan bir garip adam... Yazar Nobel Ödülü sahibi bir yazar. Dili ise oldukça yalın ve bir o kadar da dikkat çekiciydi bana göre. Yalnız hikaye de tıpkı Boşlukta Sallanan Adam kadar sallanıyordu ortada , kendimi tam hikayenin içinde hissedemedim açıkcası. Dili akıcıydı ama buna rağmen hikaye akmıyor gibiydi...
This is a book about what happens inside a man when he is left waiting, without "regimentation," when his days are all his own. It's a good book, and I enjoyed the philosophical overtones and the musings of Joseph, the main character. I just didn't feel as connected to him and to the book itself as I have with other books. It does make me feel differently about Bellow, so that's good. I like Bellow's style and his viewpoints (if Joseph's are his). I recommend this to fans of Modernist fiction, to philosophical people, and to Bellow fans.
In a sort of literary refutation of Hemingway, Bellow seems determined to restore interiority, description, and garrulousness to its proper place in American fiction. "Dangling Man" is a pretty good first novel, though Bellow seems unsure of how to end his book; DM is also a fascinating document of domestic life during World War II.
Joseph expresses his disgust throughout the book for his landlord and landlady and many of the cotenants.As his diary entries reveal, Joseph had tried before he saw himself as the dangling man (which in fact had been his situation throughout his life) to create a balance between his work and his interests which are largely intellectual and scholarly.
He sits for long hours in his room unable to do anything, takes short walks for meals, has an affair, fights with his family and former friends, and he broods.In one of several scenes of fighting in the book, Joseph and Iva visit his brother Amos, his wife Dolly, and daughter Etta for New Years.
Not just because I'm a tosser who prefers the lesser known works of respected authors, but because I only had $3 on me when I wandered into Fowlers' Second-Hand Books, Lorne, and this book, at $2.50, was the only Bellow I could afford.
I did in fact read Bellow's The Victim several years ago and I recall none of it; oh, there was a scene on a subway I think, or at a train station, but that's it.
The type for who the question "How are you going?" can be answered with "What do you mean by that?" Those with smarts, but no job, little money, no school to go to, no real reason to even get up in the morning...
Written (by Bellow) a year or so after the period of the journal (by Joseph), the winter-spring of 1942-43, it recounts a young Chicagoan’s wait before being inducted into the Army.
A technicality has thrust him into a kind of limbo of waiting and he sourly muses his way through it, behaving like an ass to his wife and acquaintances.
The time is meant as a kind of gift to him, a freedom to pursue his intellectual interests and enjoy the weeks or months before he must join the war.
He resents his brother, his wife, his niece, his one-time friends, his rooming house neighbors.
Bellow structured the chapters like entries in a journal, but the style wavers between short, journalist reports and more rich and literary chapters.
Given this was written very early on his career the meandering is understandable.A thought that occurred to me while following the 'dangling' protagonist through the book: you really didn't need much money in the 1930s & 1940s to be a complete loaf.I few of the many nuggets I highlighted:"For legal purposes, I am that older self, and if a question of my identity were to arise I could do nothing but point to my attributes of yesterday.

Impressive, pithy, aggressive, sharp. The narrator reminded me of a more type A version of the narrator from Notes from Underground. Joseph is a wonderful representation of someone who is caught between worlds with way too much time to think about his situation, and the means to exist without worrying about working (well, he worries quite a bit about working, but the job is always just out of reach for one reason or the other). My first reading of Bellow, his first novel, is a fantastic start. I look forward to undertaking more.
Beautiful novel, in the line of Dostoyevsky's 'Memories from the underground' and Hesse's 'Steppenwolf'. An exploration of the modern human condition: to be or not to in the Chicago of 1942-43. The main character hesitates to dive in the war, like everyone else; he finds no solution to his existential despair, gets frustrated by the hopeless waiting and finally finds satisfaction (questionably) as he is allowed to enter the army.
This book shows a slightly different Bellow from the one I'm used to. It's interesting, though. You hear about the dangers of an unexamined life, but the narrator of this book might argue that the reverse is just as dangerous. If we have too much time too look at ourselves, we might not like what we see, and then things just might spread from there.
