https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13932.The_Noonday_Demon
hands-down the best nonfiction book i've ever read, _the noonday demon_ is exhaustive in its examination of depression and mental illness, weaving the author's and others' experiences with "major depressive breakdown" with rigorous research on scientific, anthropological, evolutionary, political, artistic and historical perspectives on the emotion/disease.solomon engages difficult philosophical questions like whether the blunting of depression by SSRIs is worth its cost in human emotional plasticity; whether depression is a disease of category or degree; whether suicide is a fundamental civil liberty or an action to be prevented at all costs; and how we might best address mental illness from a public health perspective, including why we don't treat it preventatively, as we do some other diseases.solomon's brutal honesty about his own breakdowns and some of the shocking actions he took in often-misguided attempts to mitigate them is synthesized with heart-wrenching anecdotes drawn from thousands of interviews with depressives across all races, geographies, socioeconomic classes, ages, etc.

You cannot choose whether you get depressed and you cannot choose when or how you get better, but you can choose what to do with the depression, especially when you come out of it."This was an incredible book that took me months to read, a dense mighty tome about depression.
Rather than try to summarize depression, he lets it stay messy as it really is, different for each person, with no clear path for treatment.
I learned a lot, and hopefully my increased understanding will make me a better boss, a better faculty advisor, and a better friend.This was also discussed on Episode 009 of the Reading Envy Podcast.
Гледах за пръв път Андрю Соломон в една негова лекция за TED, наречена  ‘Depression, the secret we share’ . Стори ми се леко странен човек, който гледа твърде втренчено и говори сравнително бавно, но подхожда с дълбочина и проникновение към темата. ‘The Noonday Demon: An Atlas of Depression’ може да ви прозвучи като помпозно заглавие, но ви уверявам, че Соломон наистина не е написал нищо по-малко от изчерпателен атлас на това така недоразбрано психическо разстройство.‘The most accurate statement
‘The Noonday Demon: An Atlas of Depression’ може да ви прозвучи като помпозно заглавие, но ви уверявам, че Соломон наистина не е написал нищо по-малко от изчерпателен атлас на това така недоразбрано психическо разстройство.‘The most accurate statement that can be made on the frequency of depression is that it occurs often and, directly or indirectly, affects the lives of everyone.’Често съм се питала защо, когато някой преживее лична трагедия, после става посланик именно за страдащите от същото.
За себе си и за света, за другите около нас, без значение дали това ни носи щастие или мъка.‘Every day, I choose, sometimes gamely and sometimes against the moment’s reason, to be alive.
I know how hard the attack is and how hopeless it can seem.Too bad Solomon's battle resulted in this book.
Solomon used the best information he had at the time, but if you want up-to-date information of that sort, look elsewhere.While there's nothing wrong with exploring alternative medicine, there's quite a bit of pseudo-science bullshit presented here, mixed in with actual facts, jumbled together in a way that could be downright dangerous.
So much of The Noonday Demon is dry and downright boring.
Maybe that works for some readers, but I'm not one of them.I've learned many things from my own battle with major depression, one of which is appreciating the time I have to experience life.
Solomon pairs facts with his own experience of depression and discusses the disease in unique ways, ranging from the gender dynamics of depression to its presence in those who live in poverty.My one qualm with this book comes from Solomon's attitude toward those who face mental illness and commit violent acts.
Solomon writes that he "[does] not accept" such hurtful behavior, but I wanted more of a stance than that.
Read The Noonday Demon if you want to understand a friend or family member's plight without asking them or pestering them; read this book if you want to understand a disease that devastates a great number of people.
And this ladies and gentlemen, is how you write about depression.
Perhaps this is because Solomon cites a lot of philosophers.
He has extensive notes, but the book itself isn't footnoted; you have to go to the back and sort of guess what bits in each chapter the notes are referring to.
I do, however, think this book is valuable, particularly the chapter on illicit drugs and depression (unlike most people, Solomon doesn't just issue a blanket "don't do it" on substances but analyzes each one and what they can and can't do for depression), and his chapter on depression and poor people.
especially recommended for anyone who has ever dealt personally with depression. the scope that solomon attempts is vast, covering literature, history, psychology, sociology, politics, anthropology, etc etc. though many questions go unanswered, from the start he is honest about the intention of the book and it is not to give answers. if anything it is to raise questions. what we get is a valuable overview of a complex and misunderstood mental illness that can only help to further the dialogue.
I read it too fast in a few sittings, because I found it so compelling.
And I found huge insights in his experience;even the most extreme of his experiences, because he writes like a traveler back from a largely unexplored, often denied, uncomfortable not well reported on remote region deep inside at least a third of the population or 80% of Greenland Inuit who are clinically depressed...I particularly liked his insight that while much of our depression is rear-ward facing about past loss and trauma; there is also anxious darkness looking forward.
Anxiety as forward looking depression.
Addresses the subject partially anecdotally, but also from sociological, biological, economic, and historical perspectives.
There have many eloquent and accurate reviews of this book (by Joyce Carol Oates, William Styron, Edmund White, Harold Bloom, James Watson, Naomi Wolf and many others), however I particularly like Christine Whitehouse of Time Magazine's review: "The book for a generation...Solomon interweaves a personal narrative with scientific, philosophical, historical, political and cultural insights...The result is an elegantly written, meticulously researched book that is empathetic and enlightening, scholarly and useful...Solomon apologizes that 'no book can span the reach of human suffering.' This one comes close."
Apparently I have become a much pickier reader of nonfiction in the last decade, as I liked it much less this time around.
I like footnotes and citations; I find most arguments for avoiding them in this kind of writing disingenuous at best.
And I care a lot less about Solomon's sex life than he appears to think I should.On the other hand, it does succeed in capturing the raw experience of depression.
And Solomon does know how to turn a phrase.Not a bad read, but not a good one.
It's more a memoir than the subtitle might lead you to think; reader, be warned.
He had 3, I believe, catastrophic depression incidences during his life and maybe one even during the writing of the book which clearly increased the tone of honesty that seeps through the pages.
Some of the best bits from this 570 page book are: •	“Listen to the people who love you.
Doing 10x3 min rounds on a punching bag with one minutes rest in-between each round is one of the best helps towards (not cures) for so many mental diseases I personally believe.•	Childhood is an important part of life and goes a long way in forming / deforming the psyche of a child.
ربماو لكن هل هذا يعني أن نسبة الاكتئاب عندنا أقل ؟ حتماً لافي العالم الغربي هناك إحصاءات دقيقة..
لأن الدين مبني على فكرة الآخرة و العدل و أن كل ظلم في الدنيا سيصفى حسابه يوم القيامةو لكن هذا لا يعني أن المؤمن لا يُصاب بالاكتئاب ..
أو الألم فالاكتئاب إذن جزء من عملية معقدة لا تتجزأ ما هو علاج الاكتئاب ؟هناك عدة علاجات للاكتئاب تختلف باختلاف حالة المريض المكتئب و مدى شدة اكتئابههناك أولاً العلاج الذاتي: هناك مرضى يعالجون أنفسهم بأنفسهم من خلال الوعي الذاتييحددون منشأ مشكلتهم ..
Self-help groups led by Inuit community leaders in Greenland, shamanistic rites among Senegal’s Wolof, talk therapies like group therapy and cognitive behaviour therapy, public health bureaucracies which identify mental health as a serious problem—there are any number of ways to deal with and to help heal depression, all of which involve recognizing it as a serious but treatable health issue.My single biggest issue with The Noonday Demon is the degree to which Solomon talks about depression itself as a cure of sorts, as something that people can learn from and use to better themselves.
He introduced his readers to depression via his own personal experiences; he examined depression’s origins; he examined ways different people coped; he examined the hopes for effective treatment.
Não fazia ideia do quão debilitante a depressão pode ser. Ótimo apanhado de causas, consequências e histórias por trás da depressão, em um embrulho auto-biográfico e com entrevistas que dão o lado humano da depressão. Menos acadêmico do que costumo ler, mas por isso mesmo deve interessar mais gente.
Before you read on, be aware that the paragraphs I quote could have potentially triggering content, so please skip those if need be. Your mental—and physical—health are what is most important. “Every second of being alive hurt me.” Reading The Noonday Demon was an incredibly enlightening, educational, ingratiating, and above all emotional experience. It is not an easy book to read, and it is definitely not suited for people who aren’t willing to commit to the entirety of the ups and downs it so
It is not an easy book to read, and it is definitely not suited for people who aren’t willing to commit to the entirety of the ups and downs it so thoroughly presents, the dark situations and mindsets it lays bare, as well as the various stories from different people who have gone through, and/or are still going through depression.
People who are sick with the flu, have a broken bone, or suffer from migraines, all elicit sympathy and compassion—people who suffer from depression, or any mental illness for that matter, should, too.No matter how much of this atlas of depression you read, whether you decide to skip parts—it is so worthwhile.
An intelligent and very thorough interdisciplinary introduction, but with a publication date of 2002, it hews pretty close to the serotonin-oriented theories of depression (although Solomon does a nice job of explaining how very little is known about how Prozac-generation antidepressants actually work, even though they clearly DO work).
None of that is in this book.Still, Solomon's work on the social contexts of depression is what makes this worth reading.
Harrowing, fascinating, moving -- and depressing. My sole problem, if indeed it is a problem, is that the author (as he remarks of Robert Burton embraces the paradoxes and contradictions rather than reconciling them. So prepare to be a bit confused by too much information, although all of it is vital -- in one context or another.
"All-encompassing" because Solomon breaks down the science of depression's condition and treatment, unpacks its global history, examines its sociology both via population statistics and cultural context(s), and illustrates all of it with stories of real people with real depression, including himself.
"Deeply humane" because despite his research into the biological mechanisms and political machinations of depression as an illness and an issue, Solomon has a depth of feeling for those suffering from depression, those he knows personally and the people who might be helped by his book.
The book is more for people who want to gain a greater understanding of depression rather than people who want to be lifted out of a depression.
From the book: Depression is the flaw in love.
Love, though it is no prophylactic against depression, is what cushions the mind and protects it from itself...Andrew Solomon's comparison between his experience with depression to the experience of a tree being taken over by an aggressive vine:I saw an oak, a hundred years dignified, in whose shade I used to play with my brother.
It was hard to saw where the tree left off and the vine began.
I know depression is a great malady in this postmodern nihilistic world, but reading this book gave me wonder how somebody who was born into privilage with all the leisure and worldly advantage that is denied 99.9% of the worlds population (who don't have private horse-riding lessons and attend posh private schools--who don't have the opportunity to fall into deep depression while on a 3 month tour of Europe, who may choose to end their lives slowly with alcohol instead of flying to London to purposely have indiscriminate, anonymous homosexual orgies with people who are suspected to carry HIV in order to end one's life), how can somebody with all the advantages Andrew Solomon had in life not find meaning beyond the hedonistic or epicurean delights that were so plentiful.Happiness is a serious problem for some people.
The best book on depression I've seen; I had to hold myself back from photocopying so many of the passages to pass out to friends and family, to say THIS IS WHAT IT IS LIKE. The only reason I can't give it five stars is because it was so heavy it took me months to get it through it. Its importance goes far beyond 5 out of 5 stars though.
I really liked this book. I'm on a psychology major and it really gave a different perspective to my studies. It explains absolutely every topic you can relate to depression. It is not depressing in itself, rather informative. What best way to tackle an enemy if not by learning all you can about it? I loved this book, and I really love the friend that refered it to me!
It's a serious matter in which lives may hang in the balance, making this unique insiders view absolute required reading.That being said, I am sooooooo dang glad to be finished with this book.
Simply put, this book is really really depressing.
There's other, more recent books out there that do cover depression in a more up to date way, and I would hate for any reader to take what is written in this book as the final word.
Like Nabokov, Solomon gives you the POV experience of the depressive.
You literally can't read this book and maintain that attitude.
However, I feel that Solomon's writing is so concise and again, refreshingly candid considering the stigma surrounding the topic, that every single sentence was a point worth making and worth my time reading.
The only other book in which I found the information as equally well-researched, outlined, and presented is Sheena Iyengar's The Art Of Choosing (which I really recommend!).I'm into the second chapter of Far From The Tree now, and I can confidently say that my zeal for Atlas of Depression is not just because of how relevant the topic is to me.
These are the first 400+ page non-fiction books that I can enthusiastically say I look forward to having the pleasure of rereading time and time again.
I took this book on vacation because I knew I would want to be able to read it thoughtfully. I admired another book by Mr. Solomon- Far From the Tree - and I wasn't disappointed with this earlier work about depression. The author writes with great intelligence, empathy and the ability to articulate many angles of complicated problems. He is very candid about his own struggle with depression and sympathetically relates the stories of other people. I wish this could be required reading for everyone involved in health care spending decisions.
This book was a doozy (as evidenced by the fact it took me over a month to read). I'm still thinking about some of the personal stories and I really liked the chapter on evolutionary theories about depression. It's definitely not a light read but I learned a lot about a disease many of us struggle with in one form or another.
Deep in the book, Solomon confronts the spiritual ancestor of his own tome, Robert Burton's "Anatomy of Melancholy," and his assessment of it is also an assessment of "The Noonday Demon": mixing "a millennium of thought and a steady supply of scattered personal intuitions, [Anatomy] is a subtle, self-contradictory, badly organized, hugely wise volume."The NoonDay Demon purports to be an atlas, which is a genre not widely written or read anymore--atlases are reference material.
The problem comes from his unwillingness to contextualize the different understanding of disease (except in one Balkanized chapter), treating it as a transhistorical category, one that would always, everywhere be amenable to drugs.He does very little, in short, to challenge prevailing notions of depression, which means that the disease is always weighted with the moral freight it has carried for a long time.
While those stories are obviously important and deserve to be told, the majority of people who suffer from depression do not have major breakdowns, lose their jobs and friends, get hospitalized, or undergo ECT or psychosurgery.
It would've been nice if the book gave more attention to those with milder forms of depression.2.
He was clearly hoping to give hope to many people.
Giving them hope in the form of unverified quackery seems irresponsible to me.
The huge passage about some creepy African ritual involving ram's blood also seemed unnecessary and a bit voyeuristic.That said, I'm really glad that the book used real names and discussed the connection between depression and poverty.
