https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/383189.Look_to_the_Lady
Recently, I have been reading the Albert Campion series.
I have struggled with Margery Allingham before, and, although I have enjoyed the first two books in the series, I was underwhelmed by this.
Campion informs him that someone is out to steal this historic object and Val is important, as it is shortly his twenty fifth birthday; at which point he has to attend a ceremony at his ancestral home.
Campion, Val, and Lugg, head to Val’s family home, where they find a cast of characters all interested in the Chalice.
BOTTOM LINE: Another lovely, totally unbelievable romp with Albert Campion and friends, both respectable and otherwise, as he undertakes to guard the heir to an old family and their VIP secret.
Their home is at least a thousand years old, and extremely spooky, and they possess a valuable chalice that is reputed to be even older, around which a lot of pagentry is directed when the eldest son of a family turns 25.
A fast pace, very likeable folks and hiss-a-ble villains, lots of perilous situations and in-the-nick-of-time rescues, and the affable Albert Campion pulling all the strings, makes for a thoroughly lovely afternoon's read.
With each book, her creation, the bespectacled, deceptively foolish Albert Campion, becomes better and better.
Campion, the pseudonym for a disinherited younger son and self-proclaimed “junior adventurer,” reunites an estranged father and son — and just in time.
The pair are the caretakers of a priceless Chalice they’re holding for the Crown, and Campion’s gotten wind that a theft ring has its eye on the Chalice.
While such a plot would be pretty cliché in the hands of some novelists, Allingham breathes new life into it, and I finished the novel in a single day.
Allingham introduces quite a few twists and adds on a most satisfactory ending.
On the bedstand - but I was always reading the kindle in bed.
Then I decided to see if not using electronics before bed would help me sleep better and switched back to actual books.
(the jury is still out on the sleeping better, but maybe not quite as many hours, I think, tossing and turning.)A royal chalice has been left for the Gyrth family to look after at their country home of Sanctuary.
One day a week their chapel is opened to the public and they get a glimpse of a chalice.
I only remembered about one sentence in the book (and I was happy to see that I remembered it correctly - take THAT middle age!)So even though I had already read this book, it struck me as "new".Albert Campion is my favorite amateur dectective from all those Golden Age guys.
There is no doubt that Campion is also an aristocrat, but he doesn't snob it around like Lord Peter does.
And everyone treats him like he is very simple minded, which increases the enjoyment when you discover along with the bad guys that there is way more to little Albert than there appears to be.
I find it a bit strange that all three created detectives that came across as vain, smug and a bit foppish, and in the case of Poirot it wasn't a matter of somewhat but rather excessively vain and smug.
In the books I've read so far, he has become a little less of an inane character and settled into a bit more of your typical amateur detective.And while I'm still debating the likability of the afore mentioned Mr. Campion I am grudgingly admitting that I'm starting to enjoy Allingham's ability to tell a tale.
Unusual for a detective story (closer to a Bond, really) in that Campion (view spoiler)[deliberately sets out to kill someone. (hide spoiler)]These early Allinghams have 'semi-redoubtable' girls in them: they're relatively brave, and involved in the action for the first half of the book, and then get withdrawn from the scene.Listening to these in audiobook is interesting because the narrators go full on in 'falsetto twit' voice for Campion, which makes other characters' reactions to him all the more understandable. :)
May 2018 reread:I am downgrading my rating of this from 4 to 3 stars. My previous rating was based upon fuzzy memory of reading this years before. I found on this reread that something about the blend of mystery & adventure doesn't quite work for me in this. I can't put my finger on what exactly the problem is as these are two genres I generally like both separately & together.
This is one of the sillier of this series, but it has a really excellent first chapter and more likable secondary characters than Allingham often writes.
The aristocracy seems almost to have a glow about them, the gentry are to be sympathized with if they actually have to work for a living and the rural folk and poor are caricatures more reminiscent of Dickens than of any realistic portrait of England at the time.Finally, this reader found the ending of the book to be very disappointing for a number of reasons.
Campion does not solve anything himself, he does not personally thwart the crime he was hired to prevent and the reader is left to suspect that some mysterious supernatural force intervened at the last minute.
Still very silly, but slightly less ridiculous than the last one.
I do like that they're quite unpredictable, but that's mainly because Albert is SO mysterious and refuses to explain anything.
Albert Campion as the mysterious stranger who knows everything that's going on, turns up at the right time, the miraculous coincidences that keep happening, the supernatural elements (always explained away with science) - all it needs are some aliens, time travel and the world in danger and we've got a plausible Dr Who episode.
It'd be nice to do away with the racial stereotypes though, these dodgy brown people are so derivative!
As another Campion book, this one seems to contain all the key points of Allingham's style - Campion seems to be quite ineffectual but works out crimes within seconds, it's a basically one house mystery with assorted jaunts into London at times, a hint of romance between side characters and a secret society of criminals out to work their nefarious ends.
However, it contains a lot of aspects that are not even close to likely.First, why would a criminal society decide to stop their crime just because of the death of a member - I know Allingham states that they are not common criminals, but collectors, but surely that would make it more valuable?
Incredibly fun... the note at the end says her novels have crept into the libraries of those wise men who like their nonsense to be distinguished, which I think is quite a good description (and probably one that originates from the author herself?). As an added bonus, contains varied information on inns and eating places of all sorts for those who are looking for that kind of thing as research for their own novel set in a similar time and place.
This might be my favorite Campion so far.
And Lugg is one of my favorite characters.
His interactions with Campion are hilarious at times.
A note Campion leaves for Lugg was priceless.
Hoping this finds you as it leaves me--in a blue funk." And, as always, I like to leave a note for the easily triggered that this book might have some things that will possibly offend their sensibility.
Forewarned is warned!But for the rest of us, regular human beings, who deal with all kinds of stress, offenses, disappointments, etc, etc, etc, on our daily lives as adults, I highly recommend Mrs. Allingham's Campion series.
Highly entertaining story from one of the Golden Age authors (and not someone that I've read anything by before, but will certainly be reading more from in future), only slightly spoiled (on a personal level) by the ominous leader of the crime ring being known as The Daisy...
However the story itself was interesting and clever, mixing gypsies, art, superstition, ghostly appearances, and romance within the plot of a chalice coveted and guarded over centuries.I came across a couple of reviews while pondering Allingham's writing that were so well-written, I wanted to include them here for your perusal.
Sayers's Peter Wimsey and Allingham's Albert Campion disguised their brains and their steeliness beneath the veneer of a vacant, elegant man-about-town, descended from Saki's foppish mischief-makers and not unrelated to Bertie Wooster.I have never been able to read Agatha Christie - the pleasure is purely in the puzzle, and the reader is toyed with by someone who didn't decide herself who the killer was until the end of the writing.
The title of this, the third novel featuring Albert Campion, is taken from Act 2,Scene 3 of Macbeth and the lady concerned is Lady Macbeth who has just fainted.There is ambiguity about why she did this and ambiguity is a great feature of Margery Allingham’s Campion books.In many ways this is not a classic detective novel although it does contain lots of mysteries not least of which concerns the Gyrth Chalice, the proposed theft of which is the centre of the book, There are no real puzzles to be solved here as in Christie or Sayers: this is decidedly not a whodunnit.What interests Allingham and what makes her books stand out is characterisation: she is genuinely interested in people and what makes them tick.
Albert Campion is such a delightful character. With friends from every level, knowledge from all quarters, he amazes everyone who first thinks he's an ineffectual, rather "inane" young man. I always love it as people begin to realize who they are dealing with. This series seems to get better with each book! At this rate, I'll be dancing through my hallways soon.
Cozy classics are usually fairly quick reads. This book,however, took me a deliciously long time. I became lost in Allingham's descriptions of places that existed in her day but are now long gone, in turns of phrase cleverly wrought, and flirtations that nowadays are considered quaint. Five stars.
Very well written. I love British authors. If you like Austen or Dickens or Trollope or Dorothy Sayers then you'll like Allingham. And Campion is so odd and even ridiculous that he's a great character. Mr Lugg is a great sidekick.
One of my favorite Campion novels, this is the series at its best: action, adventure, mystery, with a touch of the supernatural and as always, tantalizing hints as to Campion's real identity that never quite add up to anything--at least not for the modern reader!
A lot of mystery, a little romance, some evil thieves, and a great revealing.
Campion gets a bit annoying in always knowing the answers because apparently he knows the underworld so well despite never having been a criminal....and yet missing the blindingly obvious.
I mean, what would a cat burglar be doing in a group of criminals who plan to steal an item located several stories up?
I do give allingham marks for having maps of the locations though, that was definitely missing and needed in 'detection unlimited', the last Heyer mystery I read.
Having initially read other Campion mysteries and then come back to start at the beginning, my advice to anyone else would be don't bother.
I remember many years ago watching a very stylish BBC series set in the 1930's - the sort of thing the BBC do so well - about the adventures of the Gentleman detective Albert Campion and his manservant Lugg.
I enjoyed the series and when I saw this book in a charity shop I thought that 49p might be well spent.
(For Albert Campion you could read Lord Peter Wimsey).I enjoyed the book once I understood that half the fun was spotting the red herrings in a plot designed to be convoluted.
This is the book that introduced me to the totally bizarre world of Albert Campion many years ago, and I found this reread every bit as delightful.
The plot centres around the Gyrth Chalice, a mysterious artefact that is now the target of a shadowy gang of criminals.
Although there is an unexplained death early in the story, this is more of a thriller than a mystery, but with the most unlikely hero in the person of Campion.
In this book, we get a few more glimpses of his true identity and plenty of encounters with the criminal underworld, both friend and foe.
It is Albert Campion at his best.Mr. Campion is the protagonist in a series of books written by Allingham from the late 1920's to the early 1950's.
My favorites are the earliest because the English country house traditions were still enforce and Mr. Campion and his "man" were still characters that we could imagine floating around London and its environs.Mr. Campion remains an enigma in all of Allingham's books, but in this early book in the series the reader receives lots of hints regarding his ancestry and position in Society.
LOOK TO THE LADY is a ripping story, but it also has more of Mr. Campion than some of the other books and is a great preface to future novels.
Unfortunately for this novel, I will now always compare Margery Allingham's books to The Tiger in the Smoke, which is outstanding.
This is only number three in the Albert Campion series, and Allingham is still fleshing out the character.
But you soon realize that this is a facade which enables him to hear and see more, as the villains assume he is all of the above!I was hoping this novel would contain some of the sinister elements that The Tiger in the Smoke featured, but, alas, it does not.
In fact, I found it all a bit ho-hum and disappointing.I'm note sure I will bother with any other Albert Campion mysteries.
It's kind of hard to rate this particular story.
I really enjoyed reading it, but it is wordy in that old-fashioned way that means you could draw detailed maps of every barn and farm and house anyone visits.
And the basic idea of a family guarding an ancient chalice for the British government never made sense to me.
We were never told why that family had to guard it or why it had to be kept secret or anything like that, you just had to accept the entire set up.
Once the reader accepts that, though, it's a good story.

My first Margery Allingham book. This might be controversial, but I like her mystery writing almost as much as Agatha Christie's. Exciting, quick page-turner. I definitely want to read more by Allingham! I like Campion's humility and goofiness and non-genius look and manner. As the book says, he has an "ineffectual face." Though, of course, he is a bit of a genius. I definitely prefer him to Poirot, possibly even to Miss Marple (gasp!) My only complaint was I didn't understand who Campion's employer was at the ending.
