https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4006.The_Valkyries
What i learned from this book? The reason why we always try to destroy the things/people we love. And what our angels really look like. And how to "broaden our horizons."They said this was the most "boring" book Coelho ever wrote. I say they're wrong.
As Valkírias = The valkyries: an encounter with angels, Paulo Coelho The enchanting, true story of The Valkyries begins in Rio de Janeiro when Paulo Coelho gives his mysterious master, J., the only manuscript for his book The Alchemist. تاریخ نخستین خواشن: ماه سپتامبر سال 1998 میلادیعنوانها: دیدار با فرشتگان؛ فرشته نگهبان؛ موضوع: داستانهای برزیلی قرن 20 معنوان: دیدار با فرشتگان؛ نویسنده: پائولو کوئیلو؛ مترجم: دل آرا قهرمان؛ تهران، میترا، چاپ سوم 1376، در 176 ص؛ شابک: 9645998204؛ چاپ چهارم 1377؛
As Valkírias = The valkyries: an encounter with angels‬‬, Paulo Coelho The enchanting, true story of The Valkyries begins in Rio de Janeiro when Paulo Coelho gives his mysterious master, J., the only manuscript for his book The Alchemist.
تاریخ نخستین خواشن: ماه سپتامبر سال 1998 میلادیعنوانها: دیدار با فرشتگان؛ فرشته نگهبان؛ موضوع: داستانهای برزیلی قرن 20 معنوان: دیدار با فرشتگان؛ نویسنده: پائولو کوئیلو؛ مترجم: دل آرا قهرمان؛ تهران، میترا، چاپ سوم 1376، در 176 ص؛ شابک: 9645998204؛ چاپ چهارم 1377؛ چاپ ششم 1379؛ چاپ هفتم و هشتم 1380؛ چاپ نهم 1387؛ عنوان: دیدار با فرشتگان؛ نویسنده: پائولو کوئیلو؛ مترجم: ناهید ایران نژاد؛ تهران، دنیای کتب، 1376، در 151 ص؛ شابک: 9645870240؛ عنوان: فرشته نگهبان؛ نویسنده: پائولو کوئیلو؛ مترجم: میترا میرشکار؛ تهران، افراز، کوشش، 1383، در 151 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، افراز، کوشش، 1384، در 235 ص؛ شابک: 9647640412؛ چاپ دیگر: 1386؛ شابک: 9648007128؛ چاپ چهارم 1387؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نوین، 1392، در 235 ص، شابک: 9789646325463؛ا.
شربیانی
I read from somewhere that the book is about "journey of faith, of trust, of forgiveness, of love, of self-discovery, and of battling the darkness within ourselves, and wanting to change".
Okay, so I got these messages, but only vaguely.
In addition, I read somewhere that this book is semi-biographical - but is it?
I finally closed the book shortly after the wife had a battle with the leader of the valkyries.
Also, I bought other Paulo Coelho books, and I hope that when I get to read them, I will see for myself why many people like his works.
I do usually enjoy Coelho's books and often take something inspiring away from them however, with The Valkyries I am not too sure.
Throughout the journey we witness Coelho fighting his inner demons and working towards spiritual enlightenment and self development.
We are also introduced to his wife Chris who accompanies Coelho and, in her own way, faces her own inner struggles and spiritual enlightenment.
But, having said this, I believe this is what Coehlo wanted to portray and what was involved in his journey of battling against the ego and inner demons.
Coehlo's books often bring spiritual messages that can be inspiring and insightful.

رواية مذهلة !!!لا تخلو أعمال باولو كويلو من ذاك الجزء الخيالي صعب التصديق ، لكن هذه الرواية كانت الأقرب للواقع ، استطعت الارتباط بمعظم مواقفها و حوارها و أفكارها ربما لان باولو جعل من نفسه و زوجته ابطال هذه المغامرة مغامرة تحفز كل شخص لايجاد الأفضل في نفسه ، لتوسيع مداركه ، تعلمه ان لكل شيء حداناعجبني أنه أكد أن الإنسان هو وسيلة لارادة عظمى ( الملائكة بنظره ) و أن على الإنسان أن يساعد ملاكه لحمايته ( الأخذ بالأسباب ) و لربما كانت قراءتي للرواية باللغة الانكليزية من اهم عوامل إعجابي بها ^_^
I never pay too much attention to the plot of Coelho books because the plot is merely a means of this author to get his point across.
This must have been a difficult book to write, it was certainly a difficult book to read because it was so crammed with wisdom that I wanted to remember every sentence.
I read it in six days but I wish I spent ten or more days on it.I gave this book five stars because Paulo is a gifted thinker and the ideas he produces in his work amaze me at the genius one person can possess.
Recentemente, e após perceber qual era o tema, decidi "libertá-lo" sem o ler, mas acabei por não resistir e experimentei ler alguns capítulos.A narrativa revestiu-se de um maior interesse, para mim, depois de ler a Nota do Autor e perceber que este é um relato de acontecimentos que aparentemente foram vividos por Paulo Coelho e pela sua mulher.
Recently, upon realizing what the subject really was, I decided to "realease" it without reading it, but I gave in and I tried reading some chapters.I took more interest in the story after reading the Author's Note and realizing that this is an account of events apparently experienced by Paulo Coelho and his wife.
با خوندن اثار کوئیلو متوجه شدم که شخصیت های اون دنبال نوعی عرفان یا یک جادوی والا هستند و اینم به ای
It was a personal story of the author and his wife and sometimes I felt uncomfortable by how much was shared.
But I also learned more about spiritual quests and how far people can take them.
The story was inspiring for that quest.
Some of it was hard to imagine such as the motorcycle group of women touring the US with an intense quest for passing along spiritual knowledge and bonking any man that happens to come along during the process.
I love Coelho's books and I loved this one, it is certainly not one that I would recommend to anyone though.
It is one that I would recommend selectively.
The only good thing about this book was that it was a relatively easy read. Otherwise, the entire plot and the characters are like the yawn-inducing, bland portraits found in some struggling artist's repertoire. Overused, hipster enigma of fabled tales doesn't work here as well as it did in The Alchemist. The result is boring, colourless and instantly forgettable.
شيفتگي يعني همين:ساخت تصويري از كسي ، بدون آنكه آنكس بداند آن تصوير اصلا چيست...گمان مي كنم خيلي بيشتر از اين حرفها باز هم شيفته بشوم. احساس گناه نمي كرد. شيفتگي چيز خوبي بود. سرگرم كننده بود، و به زندگي رنگ و بو مي داد.اما با عشق فرق داشت. عشق به اندازه همه چيز مي ارزيد و با چيزي قابل معامله نبود.
This is a novel about Paulo's journey to find his guardian angel as advised by the master of his secret order.
Luckily, they are rescued and spend a couple of days recovering.The Valkyries turn out to be a bunch of biker chicks or " warrior women" they meet at a truck stop.
Did his angel actually show or was it all a hypnotic experience?The only reason I stayed with it was looking for any connection between the original meaning of the Valkyries, a battle of sorts and my own life-altering experience.
I was so taken by this book. I've had it for sometime but with most of Coelho's stories, I cannot get into them unless they seem relevant to my own life.THere is a page long passage in the epilogue. I believe, my reason for reading this book when I did was to come across this passage. It's starts off:"The day will come when the problem of hunger can be solved through the miracle of the multiplication of the bread[…]"Lovely story. And I'm sure Valhalla was the female placing the flowers at the site.
اولین کتابی بود که از پائولو خونده بودم و به قلم توانمندش آفرین گفته بودم که باعث این شده بود کتاب رو زمین نگذارم و پیوسته با او همراه بشم و بخونمش , سبک پائولو و نگاهش به دنیا رو واقعا دوست دارم
This is the incredibly personal, true story of Paulo Coelho’s life journey from Satan worshiper to spiritual magus, to an emotionally frantic man searching for his guardian angel.To understand this book, you have to have some background knowledge of Coelho’s “religion,” a Christianity-based theology called “the Tradition” that combines spiritual magic and faith in a Christian god.
He’s proud and impatient, displaying an arrogance not apparent in the writing style of his other novels.Coelho brings his wife Christina with him on this 40-day journey, for he fears that his dissatisfaction with married life will be dissolved if he manages to meet his angel and therefore change his flawed personality.
I was taken aback that what the author’s been trying to say can all be just condensed into a simple message in the epilogue of the book.The main thing why this book just didn’t really work for me is that it lacked the fabulist magic of The Alchemist and failed to capture the simple spiritual teachings that The Pilgrimage: A Contemporary Quest for Ancient Wisdom presented.
However, there were two things that kept me thumbing through the pages.
It can't be true for everyone." But as I'd turned over the page, I found out that the master (J.) of the protagonist (Paulo) wanted this curse to be broken.
And I, in turn, wanted to see how this would be done.Secondly, it was the character Chris (the wife of Paulo)who kept me riveted to the book.
As in all his other books, Paulo invites the readers to love, be courageous, and dream!
Este livro foi simplesmente lindo. Tocou-me de uma maneira bastante própria, tem uma beleza bastante única e a sua escrita adapta-se ao que cada um acredita sobre si mesmo e o universo.Honestamente não tenho uma maneira para falar sobre este livro, simplesmente que foi uma das leituras mais agradáveis e marcantes que já tive.
Teziti ljubavi.. Svima bi nam to trebalo biti vodilja!
مثل بقیه اثاری که ازش خوندم نبود
I loved 'Veronica Decide to die' the most among the books of Coelho, Alchemist to some extent but I did not find it a realistic book, Eleven minuets I loved-it has well pitched to earthy realities. Valkyries, is well written but it was not my cup of tea. I believe that is for a different group of readers. And I do not criticize the book, it was just I did not like it but it well written and demonstrates the extraordinary story telling skills of the author.
In "The Valkyries" i found a different Coelho, one I didn't like.
The message of the book appears to be clear and beautiful, but underneath it all the waters are muddy.
Maybe I am just a very conservative christian, but it appears to be clearly stated in the Bible, which Coelho quotes so much, that witchcraft is wrong.
It was hard for me to understand how Christianity goes together with esoteric stuff.
As my friend stated it, "it is full of New Age crap".Of course, it might be a completely different experience for others, but I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.
Ο τίτλος είναι παραπλανητικός!
Boring, pedantic and pointless. Full to the brim with trivial new-age denial tactics designed to distract Coelho’s fans from their failed lives, miserable vegan diets and god-awful joss-stick stink. I would burn this book if I wasn’t now so afraid of offending the god of fire.
I think I'm just not a fan of the two Paulo Coelho books I found.Alas. I think I am lost. And in the ocean, so to speak.
Hmmmmm I just couldn't get it. As for me, this is the worst of Paulo Coelho's writings. I can only appreciate his Masterpiece - The Alchemist & Manuscript Found in Accra.
He called them angels and I understand but I never thought about their corporeal existence and I'm not sure if he meant exactly when talking about their appearances and that's the problem, because you never know to take it literally or metaphorically.
He talk about the conspiracy and the occult traditions and I'm curious if it really work the way he showed.
I had difficulties accepting the events but I liked the message and I think that's what actually matters.
The thing I like most about Coelho books is 'The Quotes'.
The book takes you on a spiritual journey with Paulo and his wife Chris in which they try to talk to and see their guardian angel.
"He knew one of the women well, and had shared his universe with her.
The characters I liked most was a 20 year old Magus Gene and also Paulo's wife Chris, who always felt like an outsider in between magic and communicating with angels and what not.
And I would still like to try out more of Paulo's books to come to a conclusion as to whether or not I'm a fan.
حيث يؤمن البطل بوجود ملاكه الخاص الذى يحميه ويريد رؤيه هذا الملاك والتحدث معه ...يقوم الرحله مع زوجته التى لا تؤمن بالسحر ولكنها تحب مشاركته فى ما يؤمن به ..
بمرور الوقت تتعلم بعض الاشياء وتساعد زوجها فى فهم بعض الاشياء الاخرى وتقبل طبيعه بعض الاشياء ..
كل منهما تتحدى الاخرى وكل منها انثى حقيقيه ..
وبرغم حده الصراع الا انه كان يحمل من الحكمه والاحترام ما يكفى لان تتقبل كل واحده الاخرى ..
فى نهايه الرحله يحقق باولو ما يتمناه ...اعشق هذا الكاتب واعشق رواياته الروحيه وخياله لعل هذه الروايه لم تكن بروعه الخيميائى او بريدا ..
