https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18816603-leaving-time
This book was a HOT MESS.
Avoid this mess of a book, which was about elephants, psychics, and who knows what else, because I got to page 170 and threw the thing across the room.
But I just need to say it: HOT MESS.
MESS.addendum: As much as I disliked this book, I would never want to spoil the ending or give away too much of the plot for any reader wanting to take it on.
Please use a spoiler tag if you'd like to comment on anything that could ruin someone else's reading experience.
The most brilliant, moving, emotionally resonant novel I've read in a long time. Loved the elephants. Loved the intrigue. Once again, Jodi Picoult brings the magic!
Picoult used to be one of my sure bets for a great read and no one quite wrote like her.
This being said, I'm not really sure what direction Picoult has been going recently.
Put them all together with the excerpts on elephants, weave a story and the blow it out of the water with an unexpected ending.
I almost put this one down halfway through but skimmed through it and I will say I did like the ending as strange as it was.I wish Jodi Picoult would just go back to dealing with people and human interest stories and just write a good page turner again.
I rarely read books about psychics, ghosts and the like.
As soon as this book arrived I put aside all others waiting here to read this.
One of the reasons I find her books interesting is she usually makes me think about an issue, and look at it from more than one position.
As so often happens, Jodi Picoult went with multiple narrators.
As usual it is obvious Jodi Picoult has done a lot of research and so the story has that ring of authenticity about it, but I think her characters are strongly portrayed.
Will I read the next book by Jodi Picoult?
The author became so caught up in her mission to spread the word about the plight of elephants that she forgot about the plight of readers who expect a good story.
The end was full of cheap tricks to finish it off so she could tell you more about elephants.
If that's what I wanted to read, I'd have chosen the National Geographic.
That only makes it worse when you get to the end and feel like she's stuffed a page of marvel comics in to finish up so she could go on writing what she really wanted to write.
Somewhere, later in Jodi's career she changed her format from courtroom scenes and surprise twists to a researched topic with a surprise twist ending.
She picks a hot topic and decides to write a novel around it, doing research and creating a plot around it.
Yes, Jodi, we get it, you do a lot of research for your books and decide to exploit a hot button topic in your novels.
Why not write a book that doesn't seem super preachy about whatever topic you are prattling off about?Okay, back to the plot.
Will I read Jodi's next book?
I've averaged my rating: all things elephant related are 5-stars, with the people stuff being 3-stars.
Picoult uses her trademark multiple points of view to good effect in this novel, which has more heart than some of her recent novels.
A pretty hefty amount of disbelief suspending got me through to the ending (count me among the population who is skeptical about psychics), and while I did anticipate some of the twists, the biggest one I did not.
Now I want to donate all of my money to the Elephant Sanctuary in Tennessee.
Which I guess is something Picoult would be pretty happy for a reader to take away.
Thirteen year old Jenna Metcalf is determined to find out what happened to her mother, Alice who disappeared from her life when she was just three years old.
Jenna was eleven when she started actively searching for her mother, but getting someone to help her search would come at a cost, so she started taking up babysitting jobs.
Will Jenna find out what really happened to her mother all those years ago or will she be left with unanswered questions?
The research that Jodi Picoult has done for this book really shows throughout this story and I found all the facts and information on elephants extremely interesting.
Pick a topical moral dilemma, weave a story around it, throw in some court room action and hey presto a bestseller.Given it's been awhile, I was surprised to find Picoult has strayed from that tried and tested formula.
The other storyline follows Jenna's mother Alice, who worked first in Africa studying elephants, and later at an elephant sanctuary in the US.
We see far more love and concern for the elephants.My major problem with the book is that the two story lines aren't integrated well at all, and they read like two very different books with only the link between Alice and Jenna tying them together.
Let me start off by saying if you don't REALLLLLLLY love elephants, don't even pick this up.
The first 3/4 reads like a work of non fiction on elephant behaviors, strung lightly with a bit of, girl searches for her mom story.
The last quarter gets more into the story and less into the comparisons of elephant to human, and does pick up, how ever Picoult always throws in an unseen twist, and this one did not leave me going, no way!
Instead it left me going, oh no you didn't, unacceptable.
Great characters as always, but too much elephant.
Alice was a scientist who studied elephants, first in Botswana, Africa then at the New England Elephant Sanctuary in the US, where both African and Asian captive elephants were able to live out the remainder of their lives in a natural habitat, free from the chains of bondage.The Sanctuary was where Jenna had been born, where her mother and father Thomas Metcalf worked together, caring for their beloved elephants, and learning of the close familial bond which elephant families share.
Alice, Thomas and Jenna lived and worked with Gideon and his wife Grace, and Grace’s mother Nevvie, all devoted carers for many years.
Since the "spoilers" button doesn't seem to work..(view spoiler)[I don't know if I loved this book because I didn't see the end coming or I hated it because the end is something that has been done, over and over.
It was so interesting and even as Jenna is remembering being killed I am like, "Oh she was kidnapped." I didn't even at that point think she was dead!
I am glad I did not see any spoilers ahead of time.
As much as I enjoyed the elephant information it was a bit much at times.
It seemed like Jenna's story was backseat to the elephants.
Using her now familiar and equally comfortable format of multi-charachter point of view each character provides a piece to the puzzle of what lead to Alice's disappearance from the New England Elephant Sanctuary soon after a co-worker is trampled to death.
The sanctuary itself resembles character as this habitat depicts the study of elephants and Alice's research into how they grieve.
Picoult blends nature and nurture to balance the plight of Asian and African elephants with the yearning of a child to find her mother.My sincere thanks to Ballantine Books for providing the e-galley of Leaving Time to be published October 2014.
I LOVED THIS BOOK.I feel like maybe I was casually waiting for an amazing to come along and then it did!
But then again I have been wanting to read every book that she has ever written and I'm slowly but surely knocking those books off of my TBR.Other than that, this book had freaking ELEPHANTS guys!
I have no idea if I would reread this book ever again in my life but I am happy that I finally found the time to read another book from Jodi Picoult.I hope the next book it just as good or even better.
Sencillamente maravilloso! Es uno de esos libros que se te meten en tu piel y logran cautivarte a través de sus protagonistas; de sus historias.
Jodi Picoult's Leaving Time features intertwining stories of past and present-day events related to an unsolved crime that separated a daughter from her mother.
Despite these surface plots, the underlying theme of Leaving Time - the real meat of the story - is the incredible bond between mother and child (whether it be human or elephant) and what loss does to those left behind.
Then, I was reading something and learned that in the wild, an elephant mother and daughter stay together their whole lives until one of them dies.
Ms. Picoult promises on her website that once you read Leaving Time, you’re never going to think about elephants quite the same way.
Já me esquecia!...Esta estória não é vulgar e logo não será uma sardinha nem tão pouco a um carapau.Também não está a abarrotar de informação e daí não ser um Kaluga nem um Atum Azul!Além de ser um thriller peculiar protagonizado por um estranho trio (uma jovem de 13 anos, uma medium e um detective semi-alcoólico), fala-nos de elefantes duma forma nunca antes ouvida ou lida!E quem ainda não os ama, irá certamente amá-los!!Ora, um livro que nos leva a amar os elefantes só pode ser um peixe exótico!Talvez um desses vistosos peixes de aquário que são um deleite para a vista, como um...um...Já sei!Um Betta Splendens!
That was fine as I do find it pretty fascinating stuff, but these chapters went by slowly; I was very distracted by Alice's voice sounding more like an extremely sleepy, bored teenager than a woman in her 20's or 30's.
Then my boyfriend Mark Deakins came on the scene and gave his voice to Virgil, the detective who was one of the last to see Alice before she became a missing person.
Virgil was just the pick-me-up the book needed, and Jenna helped him to pick himself up out of his drunken stupor too.
The narrator for "Leaving Time", for the character 'Jenna', (13 years old ...
Yet, as I was taking a journey with Jenna to find her missing mother ...and getting a'beautiful' love-connection character study on elephants ...( their behaviors and emotions), in the back of my mind ....( very early into this 'mystery'), I couldn't help but wonder ...why is grandma so crabby?
It was so tender to hear Alice's voice describing the different ways a mother elephant protects her young.
Alice's voice enhanced Jodi Picoult's storytelling about the elephant.

Told in two parts from the POVs of Jenna, Alice, Virgil and Serenity, the first part builds up to a confrontation with Jenna’s father, Thomas, whilst the second part begins to unravel the mystery surrounding Alice’s disappearance.To give you a bit of a background on Alice, she was in Africa, researching grief in elephants when her and Thomas Metcalf met.
But the difference between me, Jenna and Alice, was that I was an adult and mine was planned and, although I suffered severe personal trauma and grief for the first two years, nothing can be worse than your mother being wrenched from you and not having any answers to the questions that linger but remain unspoken.The other reason this story resonated with me, goes even deeper - the setting.
SPOILER ALERT!!!!I agree with the reviewers who felt confused by this book. Pic out seems to be moving in a new direction with her last two books; wolves and now elephants. This latest novel of hers was all over the place in characters, setting, and plot. By the end, I felt like she was imitating film directer M. Night Shyamalan---"I see dead people".
The odd yet determined trio set out to solve the mystery behind Alice's disappearance, unveiling bigger, stranger, and more ambiguous questions along the way.Picoult showcases her talent by writing about elephants and psychics in Leaving Time, two topics that sound - at least to some people - boring and/or bogus.
She uses explicit and well-researched detail to integrate her knowledge of elephants and psychics into the main plot, and both topics add a unique flavor to this book that sets it apart from other Picoult novels.
A thirteen year old girl, a dried up detective with a drinking problem, and a psychic walk into a diner...Jodi Picoult has done it again!
A couple different storylines merging together told from multiple character perspectives (in true Picoult style!).
Jenna ropes in Serenity Jones (psychic) and Virgil (detective) to help find her missing mom.
The cast of characters was quite the motley crew of misfits, but I grew to love them all individually.
Good narrative, great on audio mixed with different narrators brought this one to life.
I've always been intrigued by psychics and that part mixed with the elephant stuff really made this one stick for me.
The glue that binds this literary journey is motherly love for her daughter and ...[image error]Dr. Alice Kingston Metcalf, naturalist and researcher who fell in love with elephants as a child and became an elephant activist at the ripe old age of nine, is drawn from her research in Botswana on elephant empathy, grief and cognition to continue her work at the New England Elephant Sanctuary in Boone, NH.
I left some big fat salty tears on the book’s pages when I understood what was really going on!The story is a deep exploration of the love of a mother and daughter and Picoult skillfully analogizes the intense love an elephant matriarch has for her calves to bring home the point.
إلخ وحين أصبحت أمًا بدأت تكتب عن كل الهواجس والمخاوف التي كانت تؤرقها ما إذا أصاب أبناؤها مكروهًا لا قدر الله، وبينما كانت مؤخرًا تساعد ابنتها الصغرى سامي ذات ال١٩ في توضيب حقائبها استعدادًا للرحيل إلى الجامعة، فكرت كيف أن البشر يهيئون أبناءهم منذ ولادتهم للرحيل عنهم ذات يوم، في حين أن الفيلة تبقى مع صغارها حتى الممات، وتساءلت لماذا لا يمكن أن يعيش البشر كالفيلة!من هذا الفراغ الذي ولده رحيل أبنائها بدأت جودي بيكولت البحث في موضوع العلاقات بين الفيلة وأبنائها استعدادًا لكتابة هذه الرواية، فسافرت إلى محمية فيلة في بوتسوانا، وزارت مأوى للفيلة في الولايات المتحدة، وقرأت العشرات من الدراسات والأبحاث العلمية التي تتناول حياة هذه المخلوقات العجيبة التي تقول بيكولت بأنها أكثر إنسانية من البشر عندما يتعلق الأمر بحب أبنائها والحزن عليهم عند رحيلهم!استطاعت بيكولت، التي تعترف بأن أصعب ما واجهها في بداية مشوارها الأدبي العثور على وكيل أدبي يرعاها (راسلت أكثر من ١٠٠ وكيل أدبي وكلهم ردوا عليها بالرفض)، أن تكتب رواية أقل ما يقال عنها أنها رائعة.
I've read other reviews and it seems like it's a love it or hate it book.
I can understand how some readers did not like all of the elephant or psychic parts of the book.
I guess I look at it this way.
When I read a Jodi Picoult book I will read a decent story and I will always learn something.
I learned so much from this book all while enjoying the story.
I may not always like how a story ends but that's the same in real life.
Jenna has never stopped searching for her mother and when she is 13 years old, she enlists the help of Virgil, an ex-cop who originally worked the accident at the sanctuary, and Serenity, a psychic who no longer believes in her gifts.I loved this book.
The ending broadsided me, again as usual with her books, but I thought it was the right ending for the book.I've read previous books by the author and IMO she usually writes about hot, sometimes controversial topics in today's society.
Some of my favorite parts of this book are the passages dedicated to elephants and their behaviors.The book I read was a library book, but I will be purchasing a copy for my own shelves.
God. This book was incredible!
It is incredible.
This is a story about grief and family and healing and ---- elephants!
I have always liked elephants - they are so incredible.
Did you know they are one of the few animals that can recognize that the reflection they see as themselves?This book just grabbed on to my heartstrings and wouldn't let go.
I did not see that coming!
All. But it really made the book come alive for me.
I am so glad I read this book and I almost feel that I need to read it again!
Ordinary life and the spirit world overlap and collide, as does who and what is real versus mystical or imagined. Even for someone who is not usually a fan of ghost stories and mysticism, the writing and storytelling compelled the suspension of disbelief and acceptance of the unimaginable. And in the end an amazed and admiring gasp—“I did not see that coming.”There are so many strengths in the writing and story telling in Leaving Time. Check out my full review at New York Journal of Bookshttp://www.nyjournalofbooks.com/book-...
