https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/359375.Night_Watch
2014:  ***The reasons why I will never read another of Lukyanenko's books are at the bottom of the review. *** ------2012: "We don't even know how to wish evil on anyone. Except that our Good is not any different from Evil."How do you write the *real* Russian urban fantasy? Spice up your standard recipe with extreme moral ambiguity, questioning of morals and purpose, blend the distinctions between the forces of dark and light creating moral greyness, add questionable authority figures, question
Spice up your standard recipe with extreme moral ambiguity, questioning of morals and purpose, blend the distinctions between the forces of dark and light creating moral greyness, add questionable authority figures, question the benefit of one versus the benefit of the society, and you got the right mix!¹¹ Other optional ingredients include: a touch of prejudice, some misogyny, a bit of latent homophobia.
But very quickly it takes a turn from magical adventures to moral dilemmas, questioning of Good and Evil, and blurring the distinctions between the Light and the Dark.
I am—I’m reading it in English.The philosophy of language makes me dizzy; the chicken-egg relationship between cognition and verbal expression means that something is likely lost in translation the more sophisticated or fantastical a thought becomes.
Take the concept “I have to walk the dog.” Not too hard, is it?
Except in translating, do you use the pronoun “I” or is it implied in the verb?
What about ‘walk’ and ‘dog?’ In English, ‘walk’ tends to imply a more leisurely pace.
What’s the equivalent expression of leisure and obligation?
The concepts are deceptively simple.
Sacrifice of the few for the many.
Anton has been with the Night Watch for five years, during which time he has seen very little if any field work, until now.
Meanwhile the black vortex is growing at an accelerated rate and if the Light cannot locate the Dark Magician in control the results could be catastrophic not just for the young woman, but all of Moscow as well.Among His Own KindAnton must find a Maverick Other who has been killing Dark Others.
Anton is concerned about Svetlana ( the young woman from the metro).
Svetlana has joined the Night Watch and Anton worries that she is being developed way too fast.
Just look it up on the internet and pretend that you knew it all along like the adults do) because this is a long book.No, it's not really the story of true love between a computer programming magician and one of the most powerful sorceresses to have been discovered in the last century.It's a story about a Russian man trying to moralize the difference between good and evil and coming to the inevitable conclusion that it's all fucked anyway and the most you can do is drink your Vodka, love your woman and recognize that your employer/government and religion is all going to screw you over big time at some point, probably now.it's so very, very delightfully nihilistic and the amateur, layman philosopher in me loves every bit of it.So the good parts of this novel is the ambiguous moral value, situational philosophising on right and wrong and the dualistic ethical outcomes of action vs inaction.Anton Gorodetsky is a fantastic character both parts maker of his own destiny and trapped in it - powerless against the larger movers and shakers that control his world.
light and the exploration of an amazingly deep moral ambiguity between them, I actually prefer Benedict Jacka's UF novels when it comes to straight action, magic, and characters, but Night Watch takes things slightly farther with the honest questions.In both, anyone can be good or evil despite the categories, and there's a LOT of ground covered in both series, but Night Watch actually comes close to laying down a foundation of philosophical thought.
Let's not be surprised this is a modern Russian novel writing about modern Russia as a full-out UF with vampires, magicians, alternate dimensional side-realms, and a fight between the light and dark.
Final rating: 3/5 stars “Why was is that the Light acted through lies, and the Darkness acted though the truth? Why was is that our truth proved powerless, but lies were effective? And why was the Darkness able to manage perfectly well with truth in order to do Evil?”  I have no idea what to say about this. I liked it and disliked it. Both, equally. I loved it because the idea is unique and there is a lot of thinking about consequences, life in general and lot more. But i felt that the story was
Svetlana is cursed by a black mage, and her curse may affect thousands of people, leading to their deaths which will probably end by earthquake, war, comet or anything on big scale; while Egor is the Other/Ini who needs to decide whether he is going to be in Night watch or Day watch.
I liked them, especially the second one, it was amazing (if it hadn't ended suddenly like other three).♦ Anton is cool character, i loved his thinking, i loved his voice.♦ The world building is interesting.
I felt like she was there only to be love interest, and i have no idea how the hell it happened.
evil as performed by a motley collection of magicians, shape-shifters, vampires and werewolves trying to preserve an ancient truce between the forces of Light and Darkness.
Anton Gorodetsky is a mid-grade Light Magician working as an analyst with the Night Watch, new to field work, who quickly becomes an important pawn in the latest scheme by the Day Watch to tilt the balance of power in their favor.
Night Watch is an amazing piece of Russian literature, definitely more than just your average run-of-the-mill horror and full of creativity, imagination and depth behind the paranormal.
The movie Day Watch is a much looser adaptation of the second and third sections.On the first page of the book, there are two messages: One from the Night Watch that reads: "This text had been approved for distribution as conducive to the cause of Light." The message from the Day Watch is identical except that it states that the text is "conducive to the side of Darkness." These two statements sum up the novel very well.
4,25 sterren - Nederlandse paperback - Ik heb dyslexie -Een fantasy die zich afspeelt in het hedendaagse Moskou. Een strijd tussen goed en kwaad. Anderen, magie, vloeken en goede en slechte bedoelen. Een grote ketel heksensoep kun je het noemen. Anton, Egor en Sveta zijn mooie karakters in deze duistere fantasy. Nog nooit in Moskou geweest, lijfelijk. Wel door boeken zoals deze. 😁❤😁
4,25 sterren - Nederlandse paperback - Ik heb dyslexie -Een fantasy die zich afspeelt in het hedendaagse Moskou. Een strijd tussen goed en kwaad. Anderen, magie, vloeken en goede en slechte bedoelen. Een grote ketel heksensoep kun je het noemen. Anton, Egor en Sveta zijn mooie karakters in deze duistere fantasy. Nog nooit in Moskou geweest, lijfelijk. Wel door boeken zoals deze. 😁❤️😁
Rusi ko Rusi, preterano filozofiraju čak i kad pišu fantastiku :)Ocena:3.5
3.5 stars. This had some interesting ideas and story lines but the delivery was clunky because of the translation. In some ways it was like the Russian version of Rivers of London, but not as funny or readable. This was a reread and I first read it many years ago so when I first rated it from memory, I gave it 5. But there werent so many excellent books in the genre back then ( or at least not that I knew of). Glad I refreshed my memory, but sadly not as good as I remembered.
Thoroughly entertaining book. I was looking to explore scifi-fantasy works by Russian authors, and Sergei Lukyanenko’s name is on many recommended lists. This genre (vampires, twilight worlds, etc.) is outside of my normal choices, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. It has creative world-building and a cast of strong, distinct characters. The 1980’s Moscow setting was a nice change from the typical Nondescript Western City or Tolkien Land Template. I’ll definitely keep reading in the series.
All three novellas in this book were 3 stars.....fascinating but all ended rather anticlimactically....the setting was very cool as were the characters....it was interesting to slowly find out the many laws and philosophies of the light and dark watches....I will try the second in the series at some point !
Magicians, shape-shifters, vampires, werewolves and who knows what else are trying to maintain a truce between the forces of Light and Darkness.
The Light has been responsible for some of the horrors of the 20th Century and Anton realizes the Day Watch does just as much to hold back from destroying the world.The war is fought by Others.
The author developed struggles and resistance of our protagonist so beautifully it's almost impossible not to relate to Anton.In the first part of the book, Others must save Egor, a young boy, future Other, from a female vampire, who illegally tried to kill him.

I meant to repeat myself by the way, because the book honestly never lets you forget that she is a SUPER IMPORTANT PIECE OF THE PUZZLE OKAY.
Who knew.Perhaps The Night Watch is suffering from first book syndrome and that’s why it read more like a poorly structured pilot, but that’s a damn shame because the first few chapters had me feeling really hopeful and there were multiple points throughout the story that I found myself intrigued, it's just ultimately it didn’t seem very put together.
I was really enjoying this book until about the midway point and then instead of Lukyanenko pushing the story on to a fantastic ending which would have had me drooling for the following instalments he simply repeated the same trick from the first part of the book twice more and helped me to lose interest entirely.At the heart of the book is a fantastic premise; police departments set up by Light Magicians and Dark Magicians to monitor the behaviour of Good and Evil (his pronouns not mine), fighting a war that's destined to continue forever in stalemate.
In particular, the tripartite structure (I got that term from the book club discussion), the magic system, and the depth of discussion on the nature of good vs evil and how to go about keeping a balance between the two.I liked the tripartite structure of the book.
The world exists on many levels, the one we as humans can see, then just below that there is the Twilight which is only accessible to those with magic and is called upon by magicians by stepping through ones shadow.
The consequence of doing good magic is allowing the other side to do an equal amount of bad magic and vice versa, a result of the Treaty.
2.Grey characters.3.Short story format.Some of the weak points are 1.Too much philosophy & brooding.2.Story seems to be going no where.3.Hazy magic system.Let me elaborate on the above points now1.Different urban setting.The book takes place in Moscow where they have classified all the persons excepts humans are to be classified as Others.So it is perfectly normal for you to be a werewolf or a witch or for that matter an vampire provided you are not hurting anyone.It's the responsibility of Watches to maintain this watch and keep a tab on others present in their areas.We have an Night Watch & a Day Watch.
"Ever danced with the devil in the middle of the night?" Once there was TwilightThen True BloodSomewhere in the middle came The Vampire DiariesRobert Pattinson's forehead, move over please, The Night Watch is here.What a great writer Sergei Lukyanenko is. Many reviewers seem to think he is a Russian-Tolkien. I can't really see that, given that The Night Watch is set in Moscow, with no real invention with languages or places. What the author does well is keep a concise story flowing throughout,
Now the Dark Watch are the opposing faction, they are not so nice; demons, forked tongues, vampires, werewolves, witches and the feeding of energy from human, whom they view as cartel.
To keep balance between the two factions is the Treaty, which essentially says 'for every action there is a re-action.' So, if the Night Watch decide to influence someone's happiness, then the Dark Watch are a loud to do something similar, such as cause a car crash.
This is essentially a major posit of The Night Watch, good things happen because those people make it happen, and so on.
- who work to ensure that the Dark Others (led by the Daywatch) keep the truce that was set up by both sides as a result of WWII (as far as I could tell judging from the time frame).
Act 2: The second part of the book finds Anton in a great deal of danger when he is sent after a Maverick Other, who does not even realize that he is an Other, who has been killing off Dark Others for around three years.
Oh man I had so many expectations for this book and it bitterly disappointed.Firstly, ignore that tagline on the cover that says it's like Russian JK Rowling.
The only thing the two have in common is a little bit of magic, but honestly this book is pretty stingy with it.
I can't actually say for sure, because this book has like three vampires and a couple of shapeshifters and nothing else.
THIS BOOK IS ABOUT MAGIC AND MONSTERS AND ALL WE GET IS ORDINARY So here's lil old Anton.
If he'd been a bit sharper I'm sure this book would have been easier to read.
The premise was that "they are much like us" - that is, angels and demons alike had similar feelings, doubts about the side they had chosen, and were both capable of good and evil, however predisposed they were towards one or the other.It was meant to be a game about moral ambiguity and supernatural politics, though the execution was uneven, to say the least, and most games wound up being more like Book-of-Revelation-flavored superhero battles.I was reminded a lot of my old writing gig, and all those In Nomine supplements I still have sitting on my shelf, while reading Night Watch.
Light and Dark!
There are distinct philosophical themes to this story as the main characters debate how do good in a morally ambiguous world.This is a philosophically rich work, but don't assume that is all there is, there is suspense, courage, danger, mystery, betrayal, duty, fanaticism, and above all, love which motivates so much at great cost.This is the first book, an omnibus of three inter-related novella sized novels, of an ongoing series.
I have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone with a love for paranormal, and suspense orientated urban fantasy.
Anton manages to maintain the all important balance between good and evil (this struggle for balance is one of my favourite parts The Night Watch, by the way), to save the boy, to save Doctor Svetlana and her untapped power (she is a seriously good ass wizard + she has a great name), and to rise in the estimation of his colleagues, despite being tricked into questioning the decisions of his boss, the toughest s.o.b. in Moscow, Boris Ignatievich.Then it ends.
An elaborate parallel world of agents of the light and dark forces operating in a modern environment isn't the sort or urban fantasy that usually appeals to me.
For all its symbolic possibilities, Lukyanenko's scenario, with its enforced treaty between the two sides, its negotiations, power-struggles and rule-bendings, feels paradoxically mundane.Inevitably he produces some good ideas and achieves some surprises.
But somehow he or his translator, or the gap between my literary world and Lukyanenko's, has let a dead hand fall on this book, which for long stretches I found simply boring.
They are flawed, do good things for bad reasons and bad things for good reasons, struggle with very complex feelings and don’t often meet with a truly satisfying end.Lukyanenko’s “Night Watch” is a collection of three urban fantasy stories taking place in a post-USSR Moscow, when the entire country was starting to be disillusioned with their Westernization; those stories are rife with moral ambiguity, existential questioning, supernatural politics and a philosophy of good and evil that can most easily be translated as “good = thinks of others; bad = thinks of themselves”.
In this, the first book of the night watch trilogy we follow Anton.
The others are divided into the 'Light ones' who do good and make up the Night watch in which they monitor the 'dark ones' who have their own 'Day Watch' and who do bad stuff.
Very different from the movie though, not quite as dark and depressing, much more character development and some of the incidents are very different.The Night Watch is constructed as a series of three stories revolving around Anton, who is an Other and a member of the night watch.
I guardiani della notte si compone di tre racconti piuttosto lunghi concatenati fra loro, che ci introducono a un mondo diverso da quello che conosciamo.
Il mondo in cui si muove Anton è molto più complesso, e in questo primo volume se ne vede solamente una piccola parte.
Essenzialmente questo primo volume della serie ci introduce al mondo e ai personaggi, senza tuttavia mostrare tutto di essi.
Anzi, il lettore è sempre "costretto" nel punto di vista di Anton e quindi apprende nuovi dettagli assieme a lui, in uno stile che tende a mostrare i meccanismi del world-building piuttosto che spiegarli.
3.5 stars. Loved the concept at the heart of this series of llinked stories (i.e., the Nightwatch and the Daywatch). Thought the actual execution of that concept was good but not great. Still, worth a read in my opinion just to experience the setting.
