https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1261885.Conan_the_Buccaneer
Welcome to it!”Thanks, Lin, but this “popular new kind of fiction” was at least forty years old by the time you and De Camp wrote this ridiculous piece of crap.First paragraph, page 10, Carter says many people think reading for sheer entertainment is a crime and that a story “should really come to grips with something crucial and important.” Examples given:“… like the oil slick on Laguna beach, or the vanishing yellow crested sandpiper.
I expect passion and talent, neither of which are present in the Conan stories of De Camp, Carter and Nyberg.I realize I’m being pretty caustic here, but I think it’s at least somewhat appropriate.
A novel length Conan story written by L.
Conan has a letter of marque from the king and is now a professional, government sanctioned pirate.
He stumbles into a bit of palace intrigue which leads him to cross horns with another pirate, his old friend Juma, an Amazon Queen, a buxom naked princess, and evil sorcerer Thoth Amon.
He also battles a toad.Good but not as well written as the Howard stories.
Too much ancillary characters and not enough Conan.
Literally takes a while, as in there's a lot of time spent travelling from one place to another.
For an effort to explain the missing two years of Conan's life with no input from Robert E.
I'll start with a quote from a different source entirely: "If ya don't like singing, stay outa the opera." (Hamilton Khan).Staring moodily past the language (cliches, surfeits of synonyms, and strings of unnecessary adjectives) as well as the universally aimed body-image stereotypes (all women are buxom and "bouncing", all men are tall and strong, except the mean, meek, and mischievous ones, who are all short and weedy), this is a stick of seaside rock/candy cane with the word ROMP printed in big pink tooth-rotting letters all the way through it.
No real twists, but twists for twists' sake are just twistle.
-Rellenando huecos en las aventuras del icono.-Género. Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta. La joven heredera del reino de Zingara tiene unos sueños terribles y busca ayuda en la deidad Mitra, lo que la empuja a seguir un camino que la llevará hasta una isla sin nombre y que la cruzará con los destinos de un mezquino aspirante al trono y a su mano, de un pirata sin escrúpulos, de un sacerdote que adora a fuerzas malignas y la de un bucanero implacable, brutal, caballeroso y muy lejos de su hogar llamado Conan.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Strictly pastiche work. Readable but it isn't really Conan.
This book is just plain bad18 August 2012 I probably should not comment on the introduction to this book because somebody has already done a really good job at tearing it apart, though I must admit that this particular person seemed to have a bee in his bonnet regarding the fact that de Camp and Carter have gone and made a bucket load of money off of somebody else's idea. Now, while that is true, the fact that Howard has been dead for a very long time, and that his Conan stories were very popula
This book is just plain bad18 August 2012	I probably should not comment on the introduction to this book because somebody has already done a really good job at tearing it apart, though I must admit that this particular person seemed to have a bee in his bonnet regarding the fact that de Camp and Carter have gone and made a bucket load of money off of somebody else's idea.
This book was written in 1971, and while Howard can, to an extent (as there is no excuse for racism) can be excused for making his bad guys Negroes or Arabs, by the time Carter and de Camp came around, things had changed.
If you want Conan, read the Howard originals and simply sideline the de Camp and Carter stories.
Worst book I've read where the author wasn't attempting to create some iconic work of art.
Best part of the book is the Frazetta painting on the cover.
You would read five pages, put it down because you can't stand how bad it is, then you would see that badass Frazetta cover, enticing you to continue and endure five more painfully written pages.
The most I could read at one time was on a 5-hour flight with nothing else to do, I stomached an hour of it.
A well-written book will lead you through the pages like a leaf on a stream.
This was like rollerblading on cobblestones.
Sprague de Camp y Lin Carter en una de sus mejores colaboraciones sobre el héroe Howardiano, caracterizadas por un mayor enfoque en la acción que en los planteamientos existencialistas propuestos por el autor. Lectura amena, muy veloz y que incluye guiños no demasiado forzados al universo literario de Howard Lovecraft.
Not sure why the reviewers were all down on this book. The writing suffered a little from not being Howard, and the story wasn't the best of all time, but I enjoyed the jaunt. Particularly as it wasn't a set of short stories, but one longer short novel, I tend to prefer those to short stories.
Ehh. Definitely not the best Conan book. The plot was convoluted and jumped from place to place. Certain characters acted completely against their nature. There was just no real driving force behind this one.
Not as good as Jordan but worth reading.
Honestly the best stories of Conan packed into a great interconnected story against the insidious lord Thoth. Conan at his best.
The library of Conan tales was small and they were plowing relatively virgin soil.Interestingly enough, he’s not a pirate this time out, and his buccaneering activities as a privateer for King Ferdrugo don’t really come into play much, except that he has a ready crew and ship available (which is certainly handy).A nice aspect is the inclusion of Zarono and Thoth Amon, characters from Howard’s tales.
Basically, it’s a chase book.
The fallen count is key player in Howard’s The Black Stranger, which was renamed (for the better)The Treasure of Tranicos by Carter/de Camp.This one is definitely worth a read, but it doesn’t quite feel ‘weighty’ enough; though that certainly does not make it unique in that regard among stories of the muscle bound barbar.
The Book of Skelos, Howard's version of the Necronomicon, mentioned in The Devil in Iron (Book 4), and Pool of the Black One (Book 5), also comes into play.
Nzinga, quite enamored with her barbarian ramrod, considers making him king.
Of course, her dreams don't come to fruition, and their differences are settled with the help of a flesh eating tree.So, it's not on par with Howard's writing of course, but it has everything you would expect to find in a Conan story, just presented in a more blunted, straight forward fashion.
Of all the non-Howard Conan stories, "Conan the Buccaneer" is my favourite.First read this in my early teens & fell in love with Princess Chabella who's vividly described as a peerless sex goddess!Read this a second time in my early twenties & a third (and probably last) time 15-20 years later.
Howard paints a better Conan, the two writers here still have this great character for their hero of the piece3) Princess Chabella.
Yes, I'm still in love (or lust) with her!Bad points:Carter & de Camp are *competent* writers in terms of fashioning characters & plot, but technically & stylistically they're not *good* writers.
"Conan the Buccaneer" was highly entertaining to read.
It's been so long since I've read a Conan book.
I've read them, but recalling how Conan came to be in charge of a group of men on a ship is just hard for me to remember.
Either way, the book was just pure entertainment.
A stone toad-like god that Conan has to defeat, priests of Set and priests of Mitra working their evil to overtake kingdoms, Stygians, Amazonian women, a nameless isle...
all part of the world of Conan.
Looking forward to reading book seven, "Conan the Warrior".
Una gran aventura de Conan, pero al no ser escrita por su autor original no es lo mismo. Esta historia en particular fue escrita por L. Sprague de Camp y Lin Carter en 1971. Se nota muy rápido que no es el mismo Conan de Robert E. Howard. Aquí tenemos a un Conan mas cauto aunque no menos violento, ademas se preocupa por cosas que antes no le preocupaban. Por eso solo le doy 3 estrellas.Aún así, una gran aventura de Conan el Barbaro.
I'm nearing the end of the Conan canon (hah!). Unfortunately, the tribute books (like this one) by authors other than Robert Howard just don't deliver the goods. In parts, the effort to recreate Howard's style and phrasing verges on parody. But, you just have to love the intrepid Cimmerian, no matter who's writing about him. (Seems to me the later Jordan ones are better than these.) Anyway, good escapist, sword and sorcery, fare.
Another of the heavily edited collections of Robert E. Howards stories. I am a purist when it comes to a writers works. I know some of these stories are no longer PC but they should be read as Howard wrote them and understood that he wrote in another period. Don't read this book unless you just can't find any others of Howard's unedited books to read. Message me if you need a list of what is good from this awesome fantasy and action writer.
hah. Eldritch Wizards, pirates, an animated stone toad with jeweled eyes, bouncing warrior Queens, mind controlling crowns, ships, and, by Crom, the biggest baddest barbarian of them all, Conan, striding tall over the vanquished enemy. This is a bit of fun, great chewing gum for the brain. And as a biologist I loved the carnivorous trees in the city of the Amazons.
I was rather pleasantly surprised by this pastiche. The last one I had read from De Camp (Conan the Liberator) was painful. Conan the Buccaneer, on the other hand, was quite entertaining and easy to read. Maybe the combination of Conan and pirate environment made the book successful. A good no-brainier with our favorite cimmerian.
Not Howard's work, this is none the less a fairly good pastiche. Co-authored by the man charged with editing (some say 'butchering') Howard's works, he should be the person who knows the character and his creator's style the best. Nowhere near as good as REH, but at times close. For the Conan completist well worth a look, perhaps not for die hard Robert E Howard fans.
Otra historia de Conan, historias de otro tiempo, cuando los barbaros eran más duros y las conspiraciones mas simples, son libros entretenidos y faciles de leer, y a mi me encantan, es un personaje atemporal.
Despite the fact that this wasn't written by Robert E Howard, but was an original story by Lin Carter and L. Sprague de Camp written to fill a gap in Conan's chronology, it was still a gripping tale wherein Conan faces his wizard nemesis Thoth-Amon (not Thulsa Doom, who was Kull's enemy).
I was 21 when I first came across these novels. I devoured the first ten in the series in short order. A classic and one of the all time greats. Even the ones that weren't completely Howard's words. Like this one.
Not bad as the Conan fundamentalists will have you believe. I liked the rollicking end.
It's just not Robert E. Howard, is it?
GREAT STORY, GREAT ACTION, THIS ONE IS A MUST READ.
read some time in 1996
I read it to be a good girlfriend...it was ok, but TOO MANY adjectives.
