https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238125.Holiday_in_Death
Roarke...Eve...Roarke and Eve...Le sigh.
Another fabulous read. I love Eve and Roarke. Eventhough they are not really together much in the books -she is off solving murders and such. But the times they spend together are so sweet and so special. Sigh. BeautifulEve is my type of girl. Happy to potter around in jeans and boots and t-shirts. Hates wearing dresses and having to socialize! LOL. Not into make-up. Well, I am into make-up. At my age, I need it.This is set in the future. I should be running a mile but I am not.  At times like t
I love Eve and Roarke.
Eventhough they are not really together much in the books -she is off solving murders and such.
But the times they spend together are so sweet and so special.
At times like this when she was alone, when her spirits were low, she wondered how they had ever come together - the straight-arrow cop who believed unwaveringly in the lines of the law, and the slick Irishman who'd tangled with and over those lines all of his life.
"Bloody hell, I love you."
Yeah, I think Hugh is my Roarke.
I think I still have about 754 books to read in this series.
The only thing dying during our holiday gatherings is the idea that seeing those long-lost family members again is a good idea.
Eve gets really into the Christmas spirit in this book.
She gave them equal shares of insults, yelling, and cursing.So, again, I need to ask the question that I ask every book: why the hell does Roarke like Eve?
What the fuck's going on around here?""Hey, it's Christmas Eve. Lighten up."Her hand snapped out, grabbed him by the shirtfront, and yanked him off the table.
Stupid family holidays...Seriously, though, someone get this woman a Xanax.
This was my least favorite book so far, not because of the mystery aspect, I quite liked Santa Killer, but because Eve was acting like a bitch with Nadine, with Peabody, with Charles and generally with everyone at some points.
It has been years since I first read this book and still it was oh so good!
Ditto that between Roarke and Eve. I loved every single word in this book and enjoyed every precious moment!
Each book in this series builds upon the character of Eve and it is very hard not to love her as much as the author obviously does.
Roarke and Eve both have to start laying down their own customs and traditions as they both led deprived childhoods.This is another brilliant episode in this amazing series.
I am so much enjoying my second read through!
In this installment of the wildly popular "In Death" series we find a madman dressed as Santa ringing doorbells and then raping and murdering the person who answers.
Well, apparently Eve was saying it from a personal standpoint and not as Peabody's boss.
If personal what she said should have permanently lost her a friend.But not in the world of In Death where Eve Dallas can abuse and disrespect every single person with whom she comes in contact and all they do is freakin' admire her.
(view spoiler)[she finally decides to devote her evening to Roarke and head home from Peabody's apartment immediately after her friend has been attacked and almost raped/murdered!
Lieutenant Eve Dallas headed in to the station early after the usual recurring nightmare had disturbed her sleep once again.
But on the way, she was summonsed to a disturbance in a nearby apartment block.
The murder scene was horrific – made worse by the festive season decorations surrounding the victim.
And so, the beginning of a terrible run of murders for Dallas as the Twelve Days of Christmas played out with a sadistic killer on the loose, searching for his “one true love”.
I know what you are thinking.
I guess I am.
I have an awful crush on this character Roarke.
Silly of me I guess.
He is tall dark and handsome and loves like no other.
I know I am repeating myself but I don't care.
I LOVE how he LOVES Eve. It isn't your typical fairy tale love story but when it comes to Roarke and Eve it is perfect.
I know there are many more books in this series that I will love and I can't wait to get to all of them.ROARKE ❤ ❤
"The floor to ceiling windows showed not the nasty sleet that hissed over the city, but a hologram of a dreamy snow scene where couples skated on a silver pond and young children raced down a gentle slope on shiny red sleds." How cool would that be?
There were two generous seating areas, more leather {I would actually rather have cloth covered chairs and sofas} in the wood-trimmed deep burgundy sofas and chairs." There are also lamps with jewel toned shades, wood cabinets and window seats with thick pillows.
I was always weirded out by the whole sit on Santa's lap tradition. I mean why would I want to sit on some stranger and tell him my deepest wish, that's just asking for trouble. With that attitude killer Santa wasn't that big of a stretch, guess I'm not getting on the good list this year.Over and out
It's Eve and Roarke's first Christmas together. It was fun watching how the season's festive spirit seemed to make her grumpier than usual. This story is full of tension, the murders hit a rough spot on Eve's psych being sex-crimes.It has it's funny moments as always, the whole gang is present and I like McNab's addition to the team-after 2 books he seems like a permanent figure. The characters are all amazing and the relationships that form between them, just getting stronger and stronger with each book.
Suspense 4 stars / Romance 3.75 starsMerry freaking Christmas… I felt so sorry for the victims, especially for he 1st woman. Damn, life is unfair! Romance. No ex for Roarke, but adoration of his good looks by almost all women incl. Eve’s BFF and aide razzes me… Poetic handsome… *yawn*
WOW another fantastic book from J.D.Robb! <3 And I can't wait to read other 40 books soon. :D LOL I know, I know this is going to be a very long journey but I'm 100% sure it will be worth it! Because Roarke & Eve... I love them so, so much. <3 He held there, buried deep, panting as he blinked his vision clear to look at her. The fire that blazed in the hearth across the room shot flashes of light and shadow over her face, glinted into her hair, flickered in her eyes, which had gone dar
WOW another fantastic book from J.D.Robb!
<3 And I can't wait to read other 40 books soon.
The fire that blazed in the hearth across the room shot flashes of light and shadow over her face, glinted into her hair, flickered in her eyes, which had gone dark and blind with what they brought to each other."It's me who has you." He drew back, thrust again.
"Go up again," he demanded and began to destroy her with long, hard strokes.She fisted her hands in the bedclothes as if to anchor herself.
Her vision blurred, turning him into a shadow, gilded at the edges.
I love this series but something I just thought about while listening to this installment is how Eve is the one with all the problems.
And I suppose entering into a relationship with Roarke and allowing all of these new friendships into her life are a big step in the right direction for her.
Still, I would like to see some healing start to take shape.There's something going on between Peabody and McNab, and I'm loving that angle of the story.
I just read awhile back about how this author has no plans to give Eve and Roarke a child...like, EVER.
I'd love to see Eve as a mother.
Read May 2014Re-Read Nov. 2016I really enjoyed the fun moments in this book.
Of course felt bad for the lost of life but you have to love Peabody and her shopping ideas.
She's just to funny and loved the gift from Eve to Roarke it was an aww moment and so special but she needed help and she had to ask her "friend" Summerset.
hahaha, it was a great moment between them.
I really enjoy there banter but love the Roarke and Eve moments as well.
Really love how Roarke takes care of Eve and of course how he spoils her.
It's the Holidays in this installment.
We have a controlled, calculating and organized killer who drugs his victims.
Eve is being bitchy again.
What she said to Peabody was uncalled for.
Sometimes I think she's too much and her methods are too much but then I remind myself that her cool professionalism doesn't mean a lack of heart.
One thing I can't fault though is how she fights for the dead.
She wants to give them justice and tries hard to achieve it.Roarke is perfectly delicious.
*yum* If you are too busy with work Eve, I will always make time for Roarke.
Another terrific book in this series. Eve and Roarke are getting ready to celebrate their first Christmas together and start some new traditions of their own. However Eve is overworked, hunting down the Santa killer, a serial killer who rapes and murders his victims after bringing them a special gift. The murders seem to be connected to a dating agency and Peabody and McNab go undercover to find out what is going on.
Despite the repetitiveness in some parts - Roarke's library, the dialog between him and Eve - I still enjoyed this installment.
Not as good as the previous, Vengeance ID, but still enjoyable because of Robb's ability to keep the pace tight and zipping along like those futuristic cars.It's getting predictable but I expected this when I started the series a couple of months ago so I'm not complaining just yet.
Still, I hope I haven't spoken too soon as there were some lines that seemed taken right out of the previous books so I hope Robb manages to Roarke speak them a little more differently in the next few books.
I picked the perfect time of year to read this book as the killer poses as Santa to lure his victims.
Eve and Peabody with help from McNabb and Rourke work at a frantic pace to catch the killer before he can strike again.
My favorite part though was the dynamics between all the characters.
Eve, Peabody, McNabb and Rourke all worked together and Eve wasn't her usual antagonistic self.
It was comical when she slipped in Christmas shopping as she was investigating the case.
This is Eve and Rourke's first Christmas and it was touching how sentimental Rourke was in his attempts to make holiday memories.
My favorite so far.
Well, seeing Eve, Peabody, McNab, Feeney, Dr. Mira, and of course, Roarke together and solving the crime.Holiday in Death is the seventh book in the In Death series.
As I've noted on previous occasions, it can be read standalone or out of order, but works best when the reader gets them in order to appreciate the personal stories progressing through the series.In this latest, Eve is confronted with her worst nightmare.
I was seriously obsessing over Roarke 😍 yeah, I know he's a billionaire (and I hate them) but I just couldn't resist his Irish accent 😄Anyway, I didn't find this particular book as good as I remember that the series is supposed to be.
I had a feeling like I was reading a different series.
But maybe it's just my taste in books that has changed.2 stars partEve was so annoying.
4 stars partWell, Roarke, of course.
And Peabody was a star here, she really shines in this book.
I didn't mind this book - it had everything I like: police procedural, serial killer, lots of Eve and Roarke plus they share their first Christmas together - Peabody meets Charles, McNab feels Eve's butt, Eve and Peabody have a falling out - Eve and Roarke place a memory in their new memory box!A couple of things (besides getting the words wrong to the 12 Days of Christmas) stand out to me.
Roarke says he will put the lights on after they decorate the tree - who does that?
Lights go on first, then the other decorations.
Fantastic book. This series just gets better and better. Nora Roberts' sex scenes are erotic-lite and plentiful. Eve Dallas, as a partner in the marriage with Roarke is learning to accept that he loves her without question or reservation and will take drastic measures when she needs him to, even if she fights tooth and nail over it.Great plot centering around a killer who rapes his victims and leaves a token from The 12 Days of Christmas song. The rapes open not quite healed wounds for Eve and cloud her focus at times. I missed the baddie.
4.5 stars!Eve bitches to everyone incl. to Roarke! Not nice at all! Guess what? Roarke tranx her haha... and she got a beauty treatment while she's out and wake up fresh beside her gorgeous naked hubby! Lucky girl!:))One thing upsetting me a bit, we didn't get to see how Roarke reaction when he got his Xmas presie from Eve, oh well..If I keep continue reading this series like this, it will make my pocket sore! Urgh!!!
With the holidays fast approaching and Eve still not fully recovered from previous injuries you might think she'd be taking things easy work-wise but murderers never rest and the latest serial killer she's chasing seems to have a goal they want to achieve by Christmas.
Dressing as Santa to gain access to the victims and leaving behind trinkets linked to the Twelve Days of Christmas song it looks like they're going to have bodies piling up very quickly if Eve doesn't manage to figure things out fast enough.As always with this series the murders were gruesome, the suspense kept me guessing and the story was fast paced and easy to read.
I love watching Eve catch bad guys and seeing her being protective of those she's claimed as her family, even if she still goes about it the wrong way.
This caring about people stuff still gives her a headache, LOL.And I love the way Roarke loves Eve, I love how they are with each other.
That's a relationship I look forward to seeing how it develops over time, with all the fireworks entailed, heh.
The sex may not be explicit but it absolutely doesn't need to be, because it's always bone-meltingly hot between Roarke and Eve. Loved every bit of this.
Really liked this one. I may never open the door to Santa again though.....:)
Holiday in Death as the number 7 in the  In Death series it's somewhat predictable.
Yes, it’s their first Christmas together, but also in Eve and Roarke’s relationship there is not much more to expect, at least for now.
There was a good mystery, we meet a sociopath dressed as Santa, ringing in bells to sexually attack and murder his victims.This case was not easy on Eve, as it could be expected it brings back hidden memories of a little girl with a monster for a father.
She was never an easy character, but I like her nonetheless.Despite its predictability, I still enjoyed Holiday.
Back to back books about serial killers and the nastiness of these particular murders does not make this Christmas time book exactly festive. Add incest and overall creepiness and it's a good thing Eve and Peabody go head to head on the shopping for gifts/not shopping during work hours debate. It's also nice watching Peabody and McNabb share their Christmas Eve pie.
Frigid read! I loved the characters and getting to know them more. Fast-paced, twists and turns, emotions, family and friends, some action, and a good if somewhat a little somber ending. This had me whipping through pages, smiling, holding my breath, feeling, and gripping the book for dear life. A great read that you can't put down. Enjoy!Super great re-read and still enjoy!
