https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33455.Island_of_the_Sequined_Love_Nun
Island of the Sequined Love Nun by Christopher Moore tells the story of Tucker Case, a ne’er do well corporate pilot who, after a hilarious allusion to Shakespeare, winds up in a chaotic Moore created bad trip in Micronesia.
Somewhere along the way we meet reformed cannibals, a transvestite Filipino navigator, some wacky Pacific Ocean cargo cults, and the ghost of a WWII fighter pilot.
Not one of his best novels, all the same, Christopher Moore novels join the ranks of pizza and sex where a good unit is great and a bad unit is still pretty good.
Island of the Sequined Love Nun was actually my first foray into his work, but what got me more than anything else, even more than Moore's popularity and humor, was the title itself.
And after having read it, it's actually an extremely fitting title.Tucker Case skates by in life, nearly everything has been handed to him, not the least of which is his job flying a pink jet for the Mary Jean Cosmetics Corporation, which he almost immediately crashes...while drunkenly fooling around with a girl he "didn't know was a prostitute." With an intro like that, how can you resist?Tucker is essentially imprisoned as Mary Jean attempts to salvage the situation for her company.
Some people tell me, based on my looks, it's darn good I like humor, 'cause I sure need a sense of it.
I had read Christopher Moore before ("Coyote Blue"), and while I enjoyed his work, his humor was just a tad too quirky (and for me, that's saying something).
But with this book, I had a good time from the moment I started reading, right up until I finished the last page.
But I'm thinking too much (and once again, for me that's saying something); ISLAND OF THE SEQUINED LOVE NUN is a darn funny book.
So when Moore presented the character Zoophilia Gold, I knew that the book could safely be added to my trade-in pile.Granted, my simple lady-mind is ill-equipped to recognize and appreciate humor.
Hey, the jerk main character Tuck flies a pink jet!
Will he recover before he comes across his next prostitute?!Speaking of sexually objectified women characters, the ratio in the first few chapters was quite high.
Then there's a nameless priestess wearing nothing but fishnets, heels, and a lot of makeup who touches herself to a news report about Tuck's crash.
Since reading Dream Park by Larry Niven as a young lad, I've always had an interest in Cargo Cult stories. This was a lot of fun, but not as engaging as I'm used to from a Christopher Moore book. I didn't connect with a lot of the characters like I usually do with his stories. I enjoyed it, but can I safely say I'll remember it a month from now?
I'm pretty sure it's impossible not to enjoy Christopher Moore's books.
His awesome imagination creates these terrifically preposterous scenarios and his killer combo of wit and humor turn every story into such a fun read.
When he gets an offer he simply can't refuse to be a private pilot for a small island with a cargo cult (this is explained in the novel, very interesting), he sets off on a wild, improbable, bizarre and very excellent adventure.
Moreover, Christopher Moore has actually done some first hand research on the oceanic island culture, which is most impressive, although he urges the reader to take most of what he writes as a make believe.
Does Christopher Moore know how to write a bad novel? Does he even know how to write an average novel? While Island of The Sequined Love Nun is not the equal of Lamb and A Dirty Job, it is still a total delight with Moore's cast of insane characters and tightly woven if outlandish plots. And of course It is frigging hilarious. Cargo Cults, talking bats, stripper bimbo masquerading as goddess, pink Lear jets, transvestites. All the sort of things that no one but Moore could tie together in a funny totally satisfying novel. Four and a half stars.
When you read the first chapter of this book you will say to yourself, what the He**?
Only not in a bad way.
I could not stop reading and actually had read halfway through by the end of the day.
It is about a washed up pilot who is an alchoholic and is asked to fly a jet for a Mary Kay type person.
Needless to say, the jet is bright pink.
The opening chapter sums the main character up pretty much in a nut shell, his luck with flying, booze and women.
I hope I didn't give too much away just read it already.
Island of the Sequined Love Nun  is absolutely hilarious. Christopher Moore has a style akin to Tom Robbins, of whom I am a big fan. Sardonic and clever. Excellently ridiculous story line, completely engaging. If done right, could be made into an excellent movie. I highly recommend this read.
somewhere between 3 and 4 stars...but definitely closer to 4. very different from the previous christopher moore i've read. i guess i've stuck to the "supernatural" moore (except for "lamb" which is in a genre of its own), so this is the first "normal" novel of his that i've read.(and yes, i use the term "normal" very loosely) "island..." was reminiscent of carl hiaasen (one of my favorite authors), so overall i really enjoyed it.i was slightly disappointed with the ending...i felt it just sort of dropped off and slowed down quite a bit. without a doubt worth the time.
The story of Tucker Case, a totally hopeless geek trapped in the body of a gorgeous jock, Island of the Sequined Love Nun is an epic journey into a world of cargo cults, cannibals, mad scientists, ninjas, and one talking fruit bat.After Tucker Case manages to demolish his boss's pink executive jet during a drunken airborne escapade with a lovely if hare-brained girl whose life ambition is to become a member of the Mile High Club, Tuck has to run for his life from goons sent by Mary Jean, his boss -- and the only out for him is employment piloting shady secret missions for an unscrupulous medical missionary and his wife on a remote Micronesian island.Grasping the one employment opportunity open to him with fear-strengthened hands, in spite of a serious lack of useful transportation out to the island, Tuck manages to find the only navigator and boat available on Yap, the last stop for the jet that has ferried him out to Micronesia from the States.
Just not my type of book.
I don't think she knows much of my reading tastes and because she loved it thought I might too.
Sorry to those of you who love this book it's just not something I would ever choose to read on my own.
I can understand people liking it if this is the type of book they usually read, if it is then you should totally give this book a go.
I suppose this type of humor is just lost on me as well as I do not read humorous books but rather stick to fantasy and such.
In the last few months I become a big fan of Christopher Moore's work.
He's got this dark humor thing that really works for me and I often find myself laughing out loud.
This book was a bit more serious than some of his last work, but it had just enough wild adventure to really keep me interested.
Some of the voices of the natives were odd, but they were all very distinct and funny.Nice book with a dash of dark humor and a serious(ly) ridiculous plot.
Shark People, a Sky Priestess, a Sorcerer, Roberto the talking fruit bat, a man-girl navigator, an old grouchy cannibal and a complete loser who thinks with his penis make up the cast of Island of the Sequined Love Nun. In proper Moore form, some supernatural and some insane silliness ensues. Tucker Case starts out as sex obsessed loser jerk, but slowly turns into a decent human being while uncovering the mystery and his sense of decency.Starts out rather low-brow and dated, but it picks up and becomes a fun page-turner with a unique sense of dude humor, adventure and mystery.
I suspect that if I was the type of person who found the very idea of naughty spanking unbearably hilarious, I would have loved this book. Moore seems to write for the kinds of people who consider the phrase "fur handcuffs" to be a laff-riot punchline, deserving of its own paragraph. Sorry -- I've read enough shocking filth that sex on a plane doesn't strike me as all that titillating.
pub 1997boy humourautumn 2012madcap adventurefraudioNot sure I will get to the end of this but it's enjoyable enough in the background for the moment.3* Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal2* Island of the Sequined Love NunTR A Dirty Job2* Practical Demon Keeping4* The Lust Lizard of Melancholy Cove
What do you get when you mix a disgraced pilot, the CEO of Mary Jean Cosmetics, a lazy Australian journalist, a sky priestess, a shady doctor, a cannibal, a talking fruit bat, and a Micronesian cargo cult? The plot of a zany-as-it-is-absurd Christopher Moore novel. While it dragged in a few parts in the middle, the payoff in the last act was well worth the ride.
I have recently discovered the strange, crude, hilarious world of Christopher Moore. This book happens to be one of my favorites. It's packed with memorable characters and crazy plot twists all set in the wonderful South Pacific. Cannibals, ninjas, hurricanes, stolen organs, and talking bats... Oh my!
Remarkably CrazyLike most of Christopher Moore's books, I can't reveal much, if any, of the plot without spoiling the delight. Rest assured, there is a whole lot of quirky going on to the tune of the Glenn Miller Orchestra, Technicolor explosions, and the most horrific personal injury in the history of American literature.
Amusing: Quite entertaining; pleasantly diverting; causing a smile or laugh!
Island of the Sequined Love Nun, by humor writer Christopher Moore, begins with a ne’er-do-well pilot named Tucker Case, hanging upside down from a breadfruit tree, about to be a cannibal’s next meal. After crashing a plane belonging to the Mary Jean Cosmetic Corporation, he gets a job offer from a missionary doctor on a tiny island in the Western Pacific ocean. An adventurous trip just trying to get to the island ends with him in the tree and begins the mysterious story of the island itself. Sa
Island of the Sequined Love Nun, by humor writer Christopher Moore, begins with a ne’er-do-well pilot named Tucker Case, hanging upside down from a breadfruit tree, about to be a cannibal’s next meal.
Why do they even need a pilot?Tucker begins investigating what’s really going on between the good doctor and the Shark People, who believe in a god called “Vincent”.
Are you getting this, kid?” Malink nodded.
So, anyway, I need you to build these ladders, see, as I am having big plans for you and the Shark People.
Like any good book will do, this one is going to change me, I just know it.
I usually read books that are available at my local library, and this one was on a back shelf in a distant annex across town, which boded something, right off the bat.
I'm planning on reading more of his books.
I'm glad YOU'RE enjoying yourself."And I never would have found this book if it weren't for Les Edgerton.
It's one of many he analyzes for elements of good story in his book Hooked, which is required reading for writers, by the way.
Along the way, he meets a crossdressing navigator, a talking fruit bat, a cargo cult, and the ghost of a WWII pilot.The first 100 or so pages drags a bit, as Tuck runs into one mishap after another on his way to Alualu.
Moore turns a lot of notions about superstitious natives on their heads; the Shark People read People magazine and speak English fluently.This isn't Moore's best book, but it's still quite entertaining.
It introduces Roberto the fruit bat, who shows up in The Stupidest Angel, which I recommend any fan of twisted Christmas tales read.
Some of Moore's books I get into and others just don't do it for me.
So an offer from a doctor practicing on a remote island seems like a great way to get away and still earn a living...a better one even than he'd been making before.
With the help of a cross dressing Filipino and a talking fruit bat, Tucker makes his way to the island only to realize that something isn't quite right.
The doctor and his wife seem to be hiding something, and rather than an employee, Tucker feels more like a prisoner.
However, the absurdity of it all is still classic Moore.
Ein kleines Meisterwerk das sowohl in seinen Helden wie auch seinen Bösewichten begeistert.
Die ein wenig rüde Sprache setzt Moore wieder einmal (mehr oder weniger) allgemeinverträglich um und begeistert lässt er einen jede Menge neue Flüche lernen.Aber nicht nur die Komödie bedenkt Moore in seiner Geschichte – selbst der nötige, reflektive Tiefsinn spielt eine tragende Rolle und ist prägend für die Rahmenhandlung.
Und natürlich bekommt auch die Kirche wieder ein paar denkwürdige Anstöße.
5*überdies ist das Hörbuch, das wieder einmal lebendig und begeisternd von Simon Jäger interpretiert wird, fast noch besser als das Hardcover-Buch.

Funny fantasy about an isolated island and its (mostly) reformed cannibal tribe.
A former missionary doctor remains on the island after his job ends and becomes rich with the help of his former stripper (now surgical nurse) wife.
A transvestite and his talking fruit bat friend Roberto help out.There are lots of laughs in a Moore novel, and this is no exception.
There is only one female character, and she's pathological.
So perhaps it is best that he stick to few female characters.
For me, however, this didn't hurt the enjoyment of this silly comic fantasy.
Reliably good writing, makes me wish I read his books in order from oldest to newest.Best paragraph of the book, that made me - literally - lolz:"I want you to stop them.
I want covert action and deadly technology.
I want Navy SEALS and snipers and spies and laser-guided smart stealth gizmos out the ying-yang.
I want surgical strikes and satellite views and a steaming shitload of every sort of Tom Clancy geegaw you got.
I want fucking Jack Ryan, James Bond and a half dozen Van Damme motherfuckers who can jump through their own asses and rip out your heart while it's still beating.
I want action, Special Agent Myers.
Christopher Moore is funny, inconsequential, and breezy.
His books are candy.
He admits in his Afterword that his approach to research is, "Is this accurate, or should I be more vague?" I like that he admits that, because trying to read his books with any eye toward realism or consistency is, as he puts it, "like using glazed donuts as a building material." Still, the book was funny enough, although not quite as clever as Fluke, the last book of his I read.
Bottom line with Christopher Moore: Sometimes it's nice to put down a serious hard fantasy book like Mistborn and read some light brain candy.
This is my first Christopher Moore book, even though he's been recommended before. It is pure insanity, and I mean that in the kindest way. Take highly unlikely circumstances and add hilarity, you will get this book.The only reason I docked a star was because there were several times I nodded off during technical descriptions of airplanes and other mechanics. My advice: just skip a few pages and pick up where the dialogue starts up again.*SPOILER*Also, best ending ever. I love that Tucker managed to escape all the illegal shit he did.
