https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1177260.Crossfire_Trail
I continue on my journey to honor my late father by reading all of the books written by his favorite author, Louis L'Amour.
This one, Crossfire Trail, had a unique beginning with our hero being shanghaied from the west coast and forced into servitude for a year on a ship.
The hero eventually escapes from the ship and heads to Wyoming to help the wife and child of a man he befriended while on the ship.
There are good guys, bad guys, con artists, Native Americans, horses, gun-play, cattle and all of the other elements of a great Western.I recommend the story to anyone who is a fan of westerns!
Classic Louis L'Amour. Woman in danger, check. Five-page fistfight, check. Hero is sailor-mercenary-cowboy, check. Sioux as dangerous-but-honorable plot devices. Classic.
In fact, as quick a read as this is--160ish pages, in dense typeface but relatively simple prose--I may make my next couple library stops just about L'Amour.
(I'm still several books behind on my Challenge for the year.)A couple nits to pick.
In one paragraph late in the story he takes pains to point out that one character is 25 years old.
Earlier in the novel he misuses "flaunt" where "flaut" should be, very much a novice kind of error.
This is classic good-versus-evil storytelling.
The good guys are near-paladins.
The fastest gun lives in harmony with nature and people, removes corruption in Painted Rock and rallies the town into a functioning entity.
Written in 1954, I think L'Amour was quite progressive.Painted Rock is a town on the former border of Sioux territory where white men were forbidden to cross...
A gift from the Sioux in return for his basic human decency.Returning from town, Rafe Caradec stops along a pristine stream where nature all around carries on undisturbed.
It sets up the harmony and the clash of all things nature and human.I haven't read many westerns since I was a kid.
These novels were full of action and not character development because readers wanted action and because people had to wait until the next magazine came out, there needed to be plenty of action for people to want to read the next section.Rafe Caradec was shanghaied in San Francisco and woke up on a ship a day later.
He promised his friend that he would go to Wyoming and help the man's wife and daughter.
This novel was based on a shorter, serial version that L'Amour had published earlier.
The earlier version is "The Trail to Crazy Man." This novel is long on action and short on character development.
My first western.
It was okay, pretty short book.
Like the good guys in the story, dependable interesting sorts.
It was pretty much non-stop action and the lack of break from that was a bit taxing.
Louis L'Amour writes well, but sometimes too dependent with the exclamation marks.
There was a plot point that bugged me throughout the entire thing -- why in the world would they get in trouble and hung for mutiny?
They were taken on the ship against their will (essentially kidnapped), so why would mutiny still be a hangable offense for them?
On his way he saw a dying man named Charles Rodney on a piece of land.
Like said before, Rafe Caradec was a man of his word.
It was a good idea for a storyline, but I don’t think it was as strong as it could have been.
There were good parts in it, such as when Rafe was interacting with the two “ruthless” men.
The three parts I look for in a book are: Realisticness, enthusiasm, and if it has a good storyline.
Louis didn’t seem to put any emotion into this book like the others.
I think Louis L'Amour could’ve done much better.
On his way he saw a dying man named Charles Rodney on a piece of land.
Like said before, Rafe Caradec was a man of his word.
My favorite author (as of now) is Mr. Louis L'Amour.
He writes great books and always knows how to get the reader's attention and make them want to read more.
When I read these types of books I look for a few things: Realisticness, enthusiasm, and if it has a good storyline.
I like the enthusiasm because you know the author likes what he/she’s writing and publishing.
As well as a good storyline so people will like it.
This is one of Louis L'Amour's best novels. It was an action-packed fast r ad, rich in description and details of setting. This is one of his many books turned into a movie. Tom Selleck was powerful as the lead character.
I'll add on to another reviewer's description of noir to call it western noir. The mystery, setting, greedy land grabber, Indians and the wary, savvy hero all fit the bill.
One of L'Amour's better books, if for no other reason than because it's very by-the-book. You know what you're getting into when you read it.
Another excellent western tale. These stories are addictive and thoroughly enjoyable to read for me.
Sumthin' about a good old-fashioned western...
Love this story line, different take on his same theme
IntegrityBeing bold and tough doesn't mean sacrificing character. Real men are quite able to be both tough and full of honor.
I've started to read all of the Louis L'Amour books by publication order and Crossfire Trail is one of three originally published in 1954.
Like previous L'Amour books I've read I liked it.
Listened for Review (Random House Audio)Overall Rating: 3.75Character Rating: 4.00Story Rating: 3.50Audio Rating: 3.50 (not part of the overall rating Read It File It Review: I love Louis L'Amour and while Crossfire Trail isn't my favorite book by him, it is still a good read or reread.
Audio Thoughts: Narrated By Jason Culp / Length: 5 hrs and 3 mins Listen up: I think Jason Culp has an excellent voice and I will be trying him again in the future.
My problem with the narration was due to my per-conceived notions of how these particular characters would sound.
That isn't the narrators fault.
I might be primarily known for my love of contemporary YA, but everyone has their guilty pleasure genre, and mine is the good ole' Western.
I don't know; the way these stories completely ignore having a message, but still champion values of right and wrong, while crafting characters just deep enough to be rooted for, is irresistible.
Louis L'Amour is the master, and 'Crossfire Trail' was one of his on-going serialized stories.
This isn't meant to be groundbreaking fiction.
It's also a fun ride, and at the end of 'Crossfire Trail', like with any Western worth its weight, you feel damn well satisfied.
I enjoy Louis L'Amour as a writer.
The story is about Rafe who made a promise to Charles Rodney to take care of his daughter and Wyoming ranch.
When he arrives it is to disbeleif that he knew Rodney but Rafe sets right in to caring for the ranch and trying to convince Ann, Rodney's daughter.
Bad guys of course try to stop him and Rafe triumphs in the end, kicking everyone's a*@.
While the book does follow a fairly predictable pattern I enjoyed it.
Good triumph's evil, Rafe is a quiet but determined character, and the descriptions of the old west are poetic and interesting.
Not my favorite of the Louis L'Amour books, but still I must admit that I enjoy reading about people who do what is RIGHT regardless of what is considered popular.
Whenever you want an old school yarn, there's no one better to turn to then Louis L'amour.
Sell described as "...the man in the shadows of the campfire", his characters are thick with personality.
His stories echo an American past as romantic as they are frightening.
In Crossfire Trail, Rafe Caradec escapes the clutches of a ship captain.
A captain who relies on shanghied sailors for labor.
A shipmate asks Rafe to help his family and save the ranch, on his death bed.Faced with unfair odds and the beauty of Ann, the dead man's daughter, there can only be one outcome.
This is a classic Louis L'Amour tale, with a diverse cast of characters, some honest, some brutal, some quiet, some explosively violent. Once again, we get the raw flavour of a time of expansion and collision of world's : the honest landholder with the ruthless thief and murderer, the Sioux tribes with the honest as well as the dishonest settler, the brutal elements of winter against the hopes and provisions of warrior and rancher, and the true tales of the heart against the deceptions of greed.
A great tale wrapped in all that L'Amour knows how to unwind.
This is far simpler than many of his tales and shows how able he was at assembling a book that has the reader fully involved even in a shorter story.
The core of the story is predictable.
Other parts are laid out to satisfy the predictability.The writing is very good and the characters well crafted.
Though the bad guys are a bit less detailed than in other books.
Though that means the characters have far more definition than most books.
Bottom line: I recommend this book.
Western - Rafe Caradec was a man who always rode at the ready, hardened by a life spent among ruthless men who played for the highest stakes.
The only thing Rafe held sacred was his word--and now he had sworn to a dying man that he would save his Long Valley ranch for his wife and daughter, Ann. But Ann thought Rafe was moving in for his own crooked gain, and played right into the deadly hands of the greedy ranchers plotting to destroy her.
Then Rafe figured a way to save Ann and the land.
It would be dangerous--but that was the only way Rafe Caradec knew.
When Rafe Caradec makes a promise to his dying friend, to look after his ranch and family in Wyoming.
But when he gets to the ranch there is more there that meets the eye.
The ranch is deserted and the family is gone.
But when he gets to town he finds that his friends wife had died and his daughter is engaged to the mortgage holder on the ranch.
but when Rafe try's to get some answers he is told to leave and is and is shot at.
Rafe is making his stand and is willing to fight.
When I first checked out Crossfire Trails from the library I thought it would be boring. L'Amour's brilliant writing proved me wrong. This book was a fantastic Wild west adventure that I absolutely enjoyed. From the death of Caradec's friend, to the race for oil, to the fight between good and evil, I recommend this story for anyone who needs an adventure to the western state of Wyoming. Louis L'Amour is a writing genius and I would definitely read more of his books.
Classic Lamour novel. His ability to transport you back into the early american frontier is nearly perfect. Also, the different characters have personalities and characteristics all their own. The scene in the courtroom is particularly enjoyable. To see the villians squirm at their own stupidity is most enjoyable. The main character turns out to be a much more formidable opponent than they had originally thought. A must read for anyone who appreciates western fiction.
This is the second time I have read this book, by accident this time as I forgot I had read it before.
Gave it 4 stars two years ago and 5 this time.
I is not a GREAT novel but a very good one, not a wasted page.
This is the kind of book a non reader should read.
It would hook them on to reading more.
This authors books should be on the reading list for teens in middle school.
Anyone who reads this as their first LAmour book , I promise you would want to read more of his works
I can see why my dad likes Louis L'Amour. It's kinda like chic lit for guys/ boys who wanna be cowboys. It explains a lot about my dad's likes and dislikes. The writing was pretty. It flowed nicely. Nothing too surprising or out of the ordinary. I think I'd like to see the movie. The relationship that Rafe and Anne had was kind of weird. All of the sudden they were in love even though hey hardly spent any time together.....
I thought the book was alright not to interesting but decent the book was about cattlemen that move there cattle across the land when they come apon a native women who has hurt her leg so they accompany her back to her village when some rustlers come along and try to take her back they don't succeed when they get to women home they thank nothing of it but when they wake up they have four new horses in the coral
