https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557104.The_Mystery_of_the_Whispering_Mummy
Es tut mir ja fast schon weh, einen Robert Arthur Klassiker nur als "ok" zu bewerten. Aber ich mochte schon als Kind das Hörspiel nicht besonders. Überhaupt kann ich mit den Mumien/alten Ägypten Geschichten meistens weniger anfangen. Ich habe mich fast ein wenig durchs Buch gequält. Der Fall ist nicht wirklich spannend, die Auflösung mager und diese nicht ganz subtilen "Amerika ist schon besser als alle anderen Länder"-Seitenhiebe fand ich jetzt auch nie so cool.
Another good Three Investigators mystery. While the stories do come across as a bit formulaic, they are usually interesting enough to still be entertaining.In this one, they have figure out why an ancient mummy keeps whispering. Not the best volume of the series I'm sure, but still a good read.I used to love these as a kid, and it's nice to see they hold up fairly well as an adult.
Eine tolle Folge! Mysteriös und spannend von Anfang bis Ende. Auch nach dem xten Mal Hören noch toll. :)
But otherwise, this was very good, a sterling TTI adventure and more proof - if it were needed - that it’s a shame Robert Arthur didn’t write or plot more of the adventures.2013 update - still holds together well and is written with great pace (though the non-boys POV still grates) though the ending is a little too easy, on reflection.
But well written, with a great central mystery and a good sense of location and atmosphere.2017 update - Still in agreement with my previous comments, a cracking read and a great mystery with some nice interplay between the boys (and yes, the ending is a little easy and the non-boys bits still grate).
*Review keseluruhan untuk seri Trio Detektif yang sudah saya baca*Saya selalu senang membaca seri Trio Detektif.
Dari sisi isi cerita, jelas TD lebih "berat" ketimbang Pasukan Mau Tahu atau Lima Sekawan.
Dari sisi isi cerita pula, seri ini sebaiknya dibaca oleh anak yang punya dasar cerita misteri/teka-teki (kalau untuk "pemula" saya sarankan membaca seri Lima Sekawan atau Pasukan Mau Tahu yang lebih terasa "ringan")Dari seri ini pula saya menemukan banyak informasi menarik.
Kerja sama antara Jupe - Pete dan Bob juga sangat menarik untuk diikuti (walau Jupe terlihat paling menonjol)Intinya: saya jatuh cinta pada TD hahaha
The third iteration in the series continues the tradition. It's still the perfect detective story for kids. Some motifs seem regurgitated from Stuttering Parrot, but ok.
This one was a little more Scooby Doo than the first two, but still strong with pacing and tension. I like how the headquarters continues to evolve as they make upgrades and improvements.
*yuk mari anpren aja...*Kisahnya masih menarik seperti kisah nuri, meski saya lebih suka sama misteri nuri dibandingkan yang ini.
Karakter Pete jadi terasa lebih kuat di sini dan nggak semenyebalkan buku yang saya baca sebelumnya.
HahahaAda yang sedikit mengganggu sih, tapi biar nggak ada yang protes, saya kasih tanda spoiler aja deh....(view spoiler)[Saya heran kenapa si Jupe masih pake cara sama si jaringan hantu-hantu itu (aduh, lupa namanya.
Waktu itu saya hanya beli dua karena khawatir nggak suka sama ceritanya, seperti yang dulu pernah saya alami ketika beli novel detektif remaja sejenis ini.
good. they're all good.
This one sees the investigators looking into a 3000-year-old mummy (which came complete with a curse, of course) which whispers but only to the archaeologist who found him.
I find the investigators almost always have rather interesting puzzles to solve.
Though I wouldn’t rate this as the most interesting of the ones I’ve read so far, it was pretty good and perhaps a little more complicated in a way than some other teen/YA adventures.
I also enjoy the Alfred Hitchcock intro—it reads almost as though one is listening to an episode of ‘Alfred Hitchcock Presents’.
A thriller to the core, Robert Author sends us careening to the edge of our seats for the entire duration of the reading, as Jupiter and his buddies unravel a spectacular tale of deception and ancient history in this book.
Why does a 3000 year old mummy decide to whisper to a claustrophobic professor?
Why is an Abyssinian Cat's forepaw dyed black to take on the appearance of an ancient Libyan Prince's pet cat?
Was there really a curse inflicted by the mummy of Ra-Orkon?
Read it to know more and believe me you won't be disappointed.
This was the most interesting case investigated by the 3 Investigators. A mummy in a living room all of a sudden starts talking... or rather whispering. He only does it when the owner of the house is in the room. The mummy, as with all mummies, was discovered with a curse and soon one by one the people who had discovered the mummy dropped lyk flies. Now it seems the last survivor is going to bite the dust. Read the book to find out what really lies behind the mummy's whisperings...
واو......خوب اممممممم خیلی خوب بودفک نمیکردم اینقدر خوب باشهالبته خوب معما هاش اونقدرم پیچیده نبودولی اتحاد سه نفره ی خوبی ساخته بود نویسنده :)البته نسبت به شرلوک هلمز که سه و نیم اینا میشه:))))
I liked the overall story but the ending was a bit flat.
The Three Investigators is a juvenile detective series published in the 60s, 70s, and 80s that spans about 43 books.
They feature three teenage boys who mostly investigate paranormal type stuff that they debunk (somewhat like Scooby-Doo) or other abnormal crimes that the police do not handle.
Their base of operations is hidden away in the depths of a junkyard and it has multiple hidden entrances.
I discovered these books in the library during middle school and promptly read them all.
The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy is #3 in the series.
"I would have gotten away with it too if it hadn't been for those dang kids!"
In The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy, the third book in the series, our boys get involved in a ver
This is apparently a very big part of the German pop-culture - for the longest time, I actually thought the books were written by a German author - so given the chance, I decided to read at least one, so that I know what it's all about.
They are actually children's (or young adult) books, but quite amusing.
Three teenage boys investigating crimes with the use of some high-tech, self-made gadgets (high-tech for the 1970s, mind you).
It was a fun and a very different read.
What made it even more fun: reading it out loud to a friend and trying to solve the mystery before the book ends!
Enjoyed almost as much as when I was a youth and read it. I like how Jupiter and friends work together and to solve the mysteries. This book reminds me that 30+ years ago we were tolerant of other cultures and sought to be fair and just to everyone. And the new SJW movement is more about silencing voices they don't like than providing equal opportunity and allowing different cultures to express themselves.
Remember reading it for the first time back in 2002 when my friend gifted it to me on my birthday. The memories are still fresh and this series still as breath-taking and refreshing when I first read it..#timeindeedflies
yes i really enjoyed it
I love Egypt and this includes Libya too and it was amazing!!!!
Bal to příjemná směna v práci :3
And how does a Mummy whisper? Read to find out. Great third mystery
Thrilling! Can't wait for 'The Three Investigators' next adventure!
3.5 stars
Rereading these from my youth,still great fun!Can be read in a couple of hours,a reminder of simpler times!
Nur um alsbald festzulstellen, dass sie damit ihr eigenes Leben aufs Spiel setzen ...Fazit: Und hier haben wir also den zweiten Band der Fragezeichen-Reihe - yay!
Jetzt das Buch zu lesen war zugegebenermaßen seltsam und schön zugleich - vor allem dann schön, wenn ich mich an bestimmte Stellen wieder erinnern konnte.
Und seltsam, wenn ich zu Stellen im Buch kam, die mir einfach mal so gar nichts gesagt haben.
Alles in allem ein Buch, das mir wirklich ganz gut gefallen hat und das ich gerne gelesen habe.
They also meet a young Libyan boy who's come to bring the mummy Ra-Orkon home, but things get dangerous when Pete and the Libyan boy are inadvertently kidnapped.
This book was perhaps a bit more exciting than the previous two, but my son and I thought it wasn't quite as clever.
This is a series I read/devoured as a kid back in the 70s, and I enjoyed reading it with my son.
Rereading these books brings back fond memories and I can almost *smell* the library again, but I think many young readers would enjoy this exciting and well-written series.
I just love mystery books and this one really hit the spot.
A strength of the book is its plot and how it sets up for each event; a weakness of the book would be too much information or details crammed into one spot.
This book is part of a series that I'm not sure if I'm going to look into reading it, but we'll see.
I think you'd appreciate this book if enjoy a good mystery and like a lot of information or details described to you.
So if looking for a good mystery book or mystery series I'd definitely check out this one.
The main elements of the series including the characters, the secret headquarters, even the methods used most by the boys to solve the mysteries are now well established by this third book.
Still, a new reader to the series will have NO problem understanding everything as quick, but thorough explanations (such as Alfred Hitchcock's introduction of the three boys) gives that new reader all the knowledge needed to understand the book.
Whispering mummies and missing cats give the boys all the mysteries they can handle in this third exciting and suspenseful book of the Alfred Hitchcock and the Three Investigators Mystery Series!
