https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41424.Beauty
so, since i am now going on an "introduce myself to the fantasy genre" expedition, this book seemed like the most logical entrée into it all.beauty and the beast was never one of my favorite fairy tales - i don't know why, particularly, but i usually preferred the ones that didn't have a corresponding disney movie which would unavoidably be playing in the back of my head as i was reading them, not to mention the songs - the dreadful songs...but i really liked this adaptation.the best thing about this particular version is that mckinley changes the backstory a little bit in a way that makes it more natural and a much better story overall.most fairy tales operate by isolating the main character.
It starts a full 2.5ish years before Beauty even meets the Beast and shows no sincere interest in moving things along for the sake of actually telling the story.
Beauty spends a stunningly little amount of time with the Beast and when we actually meet him, most of that time is glossed over in narrative telling rather than showing.
I don't feel like Beauty's back story and life before the Beast helped us understand her motivations and character arc any great deal.
I felt like it was cumbersome for the sake of being cumbersome and wordy and artistic.I'm so mad about this, that I'm practically hopping.
This is a cozy, delightful retelling of The Beauty and the Beast tale, one of my very favorite fairy tale retellings.Final review: I've just read Beauty again for the first time in 15 years or more, but I probably read this 5 or 6 times when I was in my 20s, so you are not getting an unbiased opinion here.
I remain convinced that Disney swiped several details of this book for its "Beauty and the Beast," like the book-loving heroine:and the servants that seem to have become part of the furniture:It's been at least 10 or 15 years since I read this and I probably should do a re-read one of these days to see if it's really a 5-star book or if it's just an excess of nostalgia for an old favorite that's driving my high rating.
This is absolutely my favorite retelling of the familiar tale of Beauty and the Beast.
An aside: it far outshines the Disney one.McKinley begins the tale with the very familiar setting: A merchant with daughters has fallen on hard times.
But there she diverges, to give us a believable family structure of the daughters who have various levels of resourcefulness in dealing with their straitened circumstances.
They are a family, and there are no cardboard 'evil sisters' in this telling.
I love McKinley's style in all of her books I have read.
It is absolutely transparent.
I found myself in perfect sympathy with McKinley's heroine, and I felt her journey of growth was perfectly organic, one thing given time to develop into another, something helped by the often distant, traditional fairy tale telling to most of the piece.
It is always lovely to read books that remind us what we'd be willfully missing if we gave into that urge for too long.I do wish that McKinley had let us spend a little more time with Beauty at the end of her journey- I'd like to see that she doesn't quite entirely smoothly adapt, to see what remains of her changes, and most importantly, that she still retains her self inside that silver gown.
sale alert 20Dec17 Kindle deal for 1.99 hereHi. My name is Robin and I have a buddy reading addiction.Hi RobinSo why not add another impromptu Buddy Read with My Enabler  Jessica  and The Instigator  Tadiana  over at  BB&B  on Oct 14 The great thing about a fantasy is that some of it is timeless. That is totally the case with Beauty. It was originally published in 1978 shhhh but when you pick it up it is really a tale as old as time but it can be told throughout these decades seamlessly. It
It could as easily been published last month and because it is fantasy you’d never know.Why I liked this Re-Telling:It’s a classic beauty and the beast retelling the one I remember from my own childhood with an enchanted castle, the rose, the curse.
There are mysterious voices and servants in the castle that are invisible and always trying to ‘help’ Beauty with getting dressed and dancing a parade of food in front of her at meal times to chose from.
OverallThis is a beautiful retelling of a classic story with great imagery, a strong heroine and fantastic language in the telling.
When her father comes home one day with the strange tale of an enchanted castle in the wood and the terrible promise he has made to the Beast who lives there, Beauty knows what she must do.
Much of these first fifty pages is devoted to describing how clever Beauty is, which set my expectations that her cleverness might somehow aid her eventual fate to tame the Beast.A reversal of the family’s fortune forces them out of their home and into the wood, where Gervain has located a blacksmith forge suitable for the entire lot should Beauty’s sister Hope ( I think) accept his marriage proposal.
This is a lovely retelling of Beauty and the Beast.
Robin McKinley's writing is fluid; the descriptions of the castle, landscapes, and even clothes are clear and vivid; horseback-riding scenes and interactions with horses are reflective of the author's superior knowledge of the animals.
But other than that, there is hardly anything memorable about Beauty.I don't know about you, but expect any retelling to bring something new to the original story, some new layers, better understanding of the characters, more intricate backgrounds.
My other problem with the book is that Beauty's world before her arrival to the Beast's castle is very vaguely defined.
The lady that selected this book, chose it so we could read it and then go to the new Beauty and the Best movie that is coming out.
The introduction and background information started to get a little long and that would have been my only suggestion to the book.
Book Summary:Beauty's real name is Honour, but she didn't like that name so her family called her Beauty.
And there is where she finds "Happily Ever After."I suggest this book to anyone that likes to read retellings of Fairy Tales.
This is a quick read - young adult fiction.
There were elements of this story (a re-telling of Beauty and the Beast) that had the potential to be really cool, but the author concentrated on the clothes and hair and food instead of the magic.
I'm all for detail, but come on!
The main character was labeled "plain" from the beginning and her sisters were beautiful.
Of course in the end the plain one becomes pretty and the Beast is also pretty and TA DA all is right with the world.
Also, many many holes in the world the author created.
While reading an interview with Naomi Novik about her latest novel Spinning Silver, she mentioned a few titles including this one.
Since I’m waiting for her book to be delivered, I decided to give this one a go - that and the fact that Beauty and the Beast is my favourite fairy tale.McKinley’s story is a pretty straightforward retelling, but her writing style is so charming that you can’t help but be captivated by it.
From the portrayal of Beauty and her family to the enchanted castle and grounds, and the Beast of course, I loved it all.
I can't believe I haven't reviewed this properly before! This book was so influential in the writing of my fairy tales! It has been so influential my writing in general! This book is the forerunner, and set the standard, for modern YA fairy tale retellings. And since the last time I read it I've seen Disney's animated Beauty and the Beast roughly 9,000 times with my daughter, and I have to say: if they didn't pay McKinley for her ideas, Disney owes her big time!
The title says it all. This book is beautiful on every level: Writing, characters, story, themes. I thought it was an awesome portrait of quiet, gentle love and the joy to be found in simple things.Dudes and ladies alike: Just read it.
For a fairy-tale retelling this book wasn't bad although it can be predictable at times and it does have a lot of teen girl melodrama with the character of Beauty herself, whose self-esteem is a puddle on the floor. :-\
I half expected my Kindle to burst into song or for "A Tale as Old as Time" to suddenly play out of thin air, but I fear I enjoyed even Disney's telling of this tale more than McKinley's.From the surface, there is nothing egregiously different about this story from the classic "Beauty and the Beast" tale.
Beauty never has to tame the Beast, as she so bravely announces in the first part of this novel, so their love story is disgustingly sweet and a complete bore as well.
Nothing new or Earth shattering here, but if you like Beauty and the Beast, its a super fast and an enjoyable read. I sort of beyond love the story of Beauty and the Beast,as a child I loved fairy tales, but this was always my favourite. My mum likes to tell people how when asked why I like this one so much, I would say "Beauty had the best shake outta life" and she did for reals. I was a realistic child I saw these fairy tales for what they were:Cinderella  basically a maid who didn't get paid.
Nothing new or Earth shattering here, but if you like Beauty and the Beast, its a super fast and an enjoyable read.
I sort of beyond love the story of Beauty and the Beast,as a child I loved fairy tales, but this was always my favourite.
Because I love this story soooo much I am can be a little bit more critical of different versions,this one my only complaint is there is not a lot of time spent on the relationship between Beauty and Beast,very little emotional development, it was like boom!
It is no surprise that Robin McKinely was drawn to the tale, twice, and any reader can see the germ of the second novel in this book, her first.McKinley's writing, in particular The Hero and the Crown, was one very important touchstone of my childrhood, as it seems to be for many fantasy reading women of my age.
McKinley writes better, and she will most likely last longer.This book, McKinley's first and her first retelling of Beauty and the Beast, was totally ripped off by the Walt Disney Company for thier movie.
Une très bonne lecture, douce et émouvante, avec une touche parfaite de féerie ! Moi qui n'avais pas d'attachement particulier à cette histoire, je meurs d'envie désormais de voir le film en 2017.
Basically, I had been very much hoping this story would give some sort of explanation as to WHY it was "okay" for the Beast to imprison Beauty in his castle--you know, some sort of unavoidable necessity or whatnot--and it didn't.
I was also disappointed in Beauty's story, at the very end :-/ Up until that point, I absolutely loved her: she was plain and stubborn and practical and slightly sarcastic, and such a delightful Kindred Spirit all around, it was awesome.
what happens at the end of the story?(view spoiler)[SHE'S MAGICALLY CHANGED TO BE LESS PLAIN.
Jury is still out, but around 3,5 stars.This is a nice, straightforward retelling of Beauty and the Beast, which I enjoyed a lot without being completely drawn into the story. A cosy and relaxing read.
The obvious place to start (for me, anyway) is with Robin McKinley's two attempts at telling the story, Beauty and Rose Daughter.
I would rather she come to some happy acceptance of that than get a wish to be beautiful -- that doesn't solve anything.If I'm remembering the key difference between this and Rose Daughter rightly, too, it's a little awful that the Beast vanishes and changes so much too, leaving Beauty faced with a man she doesn't know, who doesn't even know his own name.
There was an opportunity here to give the story depth, but instead we are given dozens of descriptions of Beauty's dresses and the books she reads (admittedly, these descriptions are lovely and a guilty pleasure to read).
Nobody really learns any lessons or changes significantly as a person aside from Beauty realizing she truly is beautiful, which would have been a more powerful scene had it been accompanied by ANY character development.
It bothered me that this realization came at the climax of the book, as if this was meant to be the cap of Beauty's supposed development.
Realizing she was pretty, or that love made her beautiful.
So traditional, in fact, that I first was a little irritated with it and thought it was a rip-off of Disney's Beauty and the Beast -- until I realized that Robin McKinley's version of the story came decades before the movie.
But for many readers, it may leave them feeling like something's missing, or that it lacked creativity, and this may cause it to fade a little more quickly from mind.
I wanted a little more time to process and enjoy, and not feel like I was being rushed out the door.
So with that level established, the reasons I really enjoyed reading this book are 1) the details that McKinley takes you into Beauty's character, 2) the set-up of story line and characters, 3) that the main character was a hero.
I think that McKinley intended her deprecative self-image to come across as charmingly humble, but the truth is that she's sending a disturbing message to her young readers.
Then in the end, I found it disturbing that not until she realized she truly was beautiful did she find her self worth, and feel worthy to marry her prince.So, at first glance, it seems like an innocent enough fun-read.
I forgot how delightful McKinley's books can be. They are stories you want to live inside, tactile and textured. Yes, we all know the story of Beauty and the Beast, but I've never really felt it before.
I checked the credits and discovered it was first published in 1978 and was surprised at how pertinent all of it still seemed – most fantasy writers working today would probably kill to have produced something as simple, innocent, and ultimately pure as this novel.It doesn't take the Beauty and the Beast idea and work it into anything unfeasible, and in fact, it sticks very close to the original French version of the tale (Perrault) and the later adaptations.
I've been wanting to re-read this book for a long time, and the theater release of the new Disney movie seemed to be as good an excuse as any.
McKinley immersed me again into the world of an enchanted castle and the affection growing between an ordinary girl, and a terrible but lonely beast.There are so many good themes in this book!
She considers herself happy in her new home until her father returns from a trip with a horrifying story.To save her father from death at the hands of the Beast, Beauty volunteers to leave her family and live at the Beast’s mysterious castle.
This was a book that was one of my very favorites growing up, but I haven't read it since probably junior high.
So, I decided to rumage through all of my boxes of old books, find this one and dust it off and give it a good read.
It was just as fun as I remembered it!This book is just a version of the widely known Beauty and the Beast fairy tale.
Beauty and the Beast has always been my favorite fairy tale, and this is probably my favorite version of it.
If you know any 8-12 year old girls that enjoy reading, give them this book.
I guess the thing that sets this retelling apart from the story as we know it (I mean the 18th century version, not the Disney one) is the charming first-person narrative (of which I have nothing to complain, which is rare) and the relationship between the sisters - and I loved there was true friendship and affection.
Delicate yet stubborn, she makes her way, as the story tells us, to the castle of the Beast and through the core of the enchantments that surround that place.
I feel that I should talk about the magic in this book, how the enchantments seem almost palpable.But it was short, too short for me.
