https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249925.The_Wanderers

This slice of teenage gang life in 1960’s New York is one of the best books I’ve read in a while.
Basically comprising a series of vignettes detailing the character’s existences as they make the journey from rowdy adolescents into adulthood, it’s undoubtedly a brutal read, but one told with lashings of wit and good feeling.
Yes, a lot of the behaviour on display is reprehensible, but Price (a writer I’ve never read before, although I have seen his episodes of ‘The Wire’) does a fantastic job of making the characters relatable even as we only see snapshots of their world.
"Buddy cinse le spalle di Richie e Joey e li abbracciò con tutte le sue forze, come se più avesse stretto più le cose sarebbero rimaste sempre uguali. Presto si ritrovarono tutti con le braccia attorno alle spalle uno dell'altro, le dita che affondavano nella carne, cercando di formare un cerchio che nulla poteva penetrare: scuola, donne, bambini, matrimoni, madri, padri." Quando un libro mi piace così incondizionatamente tanto non sono mai sicura se i meriti siano effettivamente del libro o se
"Buddy cinse le spalle di Richie e Joey e li abbracciò con tutte le sue forze, come se più avesse stretto più le cose sarebbero rimaste sempre uguali.
Credo che alla fine siano un po' tutte e due le cose.Avevo già provato a leggere I Wanderers, un annetto fa, e l'avevo abbandonato dopo qualche decina di pagine.
Poi l'ho ripreso in mano, qualche giorno fa, e ho trovato la scrittura superlativa, la storia mi ha catturata, i Wanderers sono diventati come amici intimi.
Tough GuysThe Wanderers is a classic late fifties juvenile delinquent/ teenage growing up Bronx tale about a group of Italian kids who ran together, played football, fought with other gangs, tried to score with girls, and such.
It is at times particularly crude, nasty, violent but also humorous.
There are gang fights and threatened rumbles.
There’s the gang of mean bald headed guys who end up enlisting before sobering up.
There’s the hand of short guys who show up by the hundreds to disrupt football games.
It fits in well with depictions of a time.

This is Richard Price's first book and a tour de force. Price was my creative writing teacher at SUNY Binghamton, and I remember when he sold this book and was throwing pennies around in the parking lot to make a show of his new-found fame. I also remember many gorgeous blondes hanging on his arm at the pub shortly thereafter. Great writer. I just have to hope he eventually put the same amount of effort into developing a better storyline for his soul.
The kids are most definitely not alright. For those yearning for the halcyon days of the us in the 1960s, this book is timely reminder that they were bloody awful. It's all been covered. Score but Richard Price is a good writer who makes it all engrossing enough.Goodreads recommends that I read "Let`s Face It, Charlie Brown" based on having read The Wanderers. I have read Let`s Face It, Brown" and enjoyed it thoroughly, slightly disappointing on the whole teenage pregnancy and gang violence front though. Also fewer words and more Beagle.
i think i can honestly say that this is in the top 5 of my favorite books.
a book so beautiful in its simplicity and in its story that i want to cry on every page and soak it down with my tears because it reminds me of growing up and it reminds me of what it was like being a kid with half a brain in a place where people wanted you to fight like dogs on a daily basis.
i think, one day, i am going to eat this book, piece by pice, so i can always have it with me.
At the same time the effect isn't radical enough to really feel like something different.All in all its your average "hoods growing up" story with better then average prose, a few memorably whackadoo set pieces, and a cover coat from William Burroughs.On that subject I have to say that that quote made me admire Richard Price alot.
Not just because of it's pedigree, but because I know if I ever got a quote from Burroughs I'd stop writing all together and spend my time going up to strangers yelling, "You know who liked my book.
WILLIAM FUCKING BURROUGHS THAT'S WHO!"
Oddly enough, this coming of age novel set in the Bronx of the early 60s is pretty true to my own experience in the suburbs of North Florida.
Boys will be boys--alas--and the miasmal, hormonal, hard-on-centric atmosphere must be nearly universal.
If you can get past what one reviewer calls its "vulgarity," the novel has many things to recommend it (not least its epigraph from Van Morrison: "I will search my very soul, for the lion").
And there is not a better mythopoetic creation of the emotional subsoil that nurtured the birth of early American 60s pop music.
Short stories interlinked to form a cruel look at a New York gang. Much different than the movie, if you've seen that. Also recommended is Last Exit to Brooklyn which, though very different, this book reminded me of.
Um, like the stars indicate: It was OK. Pretty obviously written by a 24 year old young man.
Dry characters, unbelievable situations. I really don't see how people could have enjoyed this.
The dialogue in this book is dynamite. It flows like overheated mercury and you flow with it. It is wity, funny and very genuine. The loose structure of the book might have been a disadvantage but Price used this structure wonderfully.Beyond the dialogue, there are some pure evil characters that will stay with me. The 10 year old devil Dougie ant Emilio the worst father of the century. It is like reading the childhood of the characters in Sopranos. I ill try to readhis hother books.
Either way, his edition was a paperback and had a NATIONAL LAMPOON-style illustration on the cover.
This cover was that sort of painting, showing a character in denim on an urban street.) My brother (who'd seen AMERICAN GRAFITTI five times in the theatre) loved it.
He lived like the characters in the book.
I did, and have to say that, ever since, when I notice a Richard Price novel coming out, I've taken notice.
This was Price's first novel, I think.
Richard Price's realism informs the novel, but over the decades, his books have become much more intricate.
Sometimes an author introduces you to a set of characters that stay with you for days after you finish their novel.
The Wanderers has such a cast.It is Richard Price's first book, published in 1974, and was written when he was a writing student, almost as a series of interconnected short stories.
It's a moment and milieu that no longer exits, of course, the Bronx having changed so much, but it is one that Price knows intimately.The Wanderers is a gang, one of many in the neighbourhood, and the principals are all around 17 years old.
hmmm...
i dont really know what to say about this book, it is hands down theeee most vulgar and what most will say disgusting!
it was a very entertaining book about a young teenage gang growing up in the bronx.
these kids deal with everything from trying to get laid to miget fights to getting a girl pregnat and a mother dieing.
they go through these hardships together and i would say that they are true friends.
i would have to say my favorite part was the duckyboys(a miget gang) fighting the wanderers and the delbombers(two football teams from the bronx).
I first read this in 1975, at the beach (my older sister had picked up the paperback at the corner store) and, at 12 years of age, I thought this was the greatest book I had ever read. Now, re-reading it after 40 years and thousands of other novels later, this is still my all-time favorite. Here's why. First, I love the honesty and complete lack of political correctness. Second, the dialog is great. Third, and most important, are the internal monologues of the guys, which truly reveal each one's character in often hilarious ways. Finally, it is highly entertaining!
This book seemed dated. It's a growing up story from the 60's but very violent. What's odd was families having both parents and sitting down to dinner together despite their rotten lives. Not the best work of Richard Price.
It's always worth reading!
everything is so fucked up and i hate you and i hate me but most of all i hate richard price, he's a douche bag.
Eh
A little too dark and too real for my tastes. Not as good as later Price (which is as good as it gets) but, I guess, a fair portrait of a specific time and place. Just not one that interests me.
I'd raise a bottle of Tango to Richard Price for The Wanderers and take a swig, if I knew what Tango was. Maybe I'll look into it ...
The Outsiders for adults
Written when the author was 22 years old?
It reads with youthful exuberance.
It's a collection of stories of a cast of young people growing up in some urban city.
The characters so far have all been boys.
The author really exposes some tough lives, inner and outer , of the characters.
A boy wants to get laid and pressures his girlfriend, a boy looks for validation from an abusive and sadistic father, a young "maniac" gets revenge on a friend by tricking him into doing something dangerous.
Yeah, not characters I like too much, but fascinating, or at least worth reading about.
Extremely enjoyable read about teen boys growing up in in early 60 Bronx. The Wanderers is the name of the gang to which the five main characters belong. I was born in 1946, so am slightly younger than the main characters. Also, I'm from Indiana, so my experience is not in a big city area. Nevertheless, I could see similarities with behaviors and personality characteristics I observed back then.I was drawn into the stories, identified with many of the character's feelings. I will probably read another Richard Price book as a result of reading this one.
A coming of age story set in 50's and 60's New York as told through the perspective of a number of kids that ran in gangs. This was a raw and at times violent and borderline perverse read, especially for the time period. There's a lot of racism as well, but it fits the context. Along with all that you get a real and surprisingly deep look at a number of the characters and it's incredible how much they appear to grow during this short novel.
The book that inspired the classic movie. Many of the storylines (the Baldies, the bowling hustlers) are there but the order is different to the film. These act more as standalone episodes in the lives of the Wanderers. The characters are as intriguing as in the film, the language is off the time and authentic. I really enjoyed it. So much i watched the film again mid read!
Gonna work my way through Richard Price's stuff--read Clockers ages ago, quite liked it. The Wanderers, movie version notwithstanding, is tough stuff, pulls no punches in stark view of masculine roles/myths.
