https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133166.Morte_D_Urban
Morte D'Urban is a book I think I should have loved, and for a while I did, but it was too Catholic even for me.
Urban's exchanges with Father Wilfrid, a puttering doofus who runs the Minnesota retreat, are comedy gold.
He's human, sure, but I don't know that he's the best counterposition to the bureaucratic inefficiency and complacency of the Catholic Church.
Sure, next to Father Wilfrid and his ilk, Urban appears lively and colorful, but transposed to St. Monica's and the golf course, he's just another guy.
At another level, this book is a character study, in particular of Father Urban.
When Father Urban saw the gun, a rifle, he feared for his life, thinking this was some half-witted yokel---who, having been given hunting privileges, and having killed a stranger, would get off scot free at the inquest."Never do that," the man called out."Hello, Wilf.
"That's what I'm after.""For a moment, I was afraid it might be people," Father Urban said, smiling, remembering the big rabbit who shot the hunter in Struwwelpeter"It's no laughing matter.
If you want to take this novel literally and say it is a book about the adventures of an ambitious priest (not unlike a Catholic Elmer Gantry of sorts) who was exiled to the middle of nowhere, be my guest, but it doesn't take long before you realize there is something else going on here and it begins to dawn on you that is all sounds ...
remotely ...
like your job!Congratulations, my friend, you've reached the AHA moment.It's a difficult book to find (I think it's out of print but your library may have a copy), but if you feel a little frustrated about your current job, it's worth picking up.
seeing how it's yet another very quiet (and quietly funny) realistic portrait of an isolated priest in the midwest.
these books are funny in that they are gently satirical.
in a way that comes from seeing this world as a temporary waystation, a kind of cosmic experiment or proving ground.
it's all kinda funny, and all kinda sad, but there's a god in heaven, and eternal life, so you take the hits and move on and try not to complain.i am probably not expressing it very well, but there really is something one-of-a-kind about the way powers sees and writes.
Morte d’Urban is a Catholic novel by a Catholic author, but it’s also a singularly American novel.
Our protagonist Father Urban – successful, charming, handsome – is a traveling salesman out of Chicago for the fictional Order of St. Clement.
Critics often compare him to Babbitt, but that’s not right: he’s a dynamic, solicitous priest.
They were in bad shape all over the world.Father Urban is one of few men in the Order capable of turning things around.
It’s a shame, because he managed to capture not just a clerical idiom but a uniquely American one.
The book to show the world what a sentimental sap Garrison Keiller really is.
Morte D'Urban, won the National Book Award in 1961, is set, as is Lake Woebegone, in Sterns County, Minnesota.
Powers has one of the best ears in vernacular fiction, sufficiently so for Evelyn Waugh to cite him as his favorite American writer.
He may be mine, given my familiarity with his vernacular gives him an unfair advantage over the pack contending for my favor.
After the tragedy, I reread Powers and it was a great consolation.Keiller makes minstrelsy out of the same material.
I read the novel because it won the National Book Award in 1963.
Morte D'Urban, the third novel concerning priests from my 1963 list, was a stand out.Father Urban is quite a character.
The author, who wrote only Catholic fiction, seems to have been unusually clear eyed regarding the challenges of living a dedicated religious life in our materialist culture.Now that I think about it, this conflict between the world and the priest is almost always a theme in any religious fiction I have read so apparently it is a known issue.Morte D'Urban has a sorrowful ending and I could see it coming as I read.
It's a little difficult to get into a book following a brother of the order of St. Clement through dioscesan politics and secular fundraising in the midwest of the late 50s/early 60s.
For one thing, the tone of the book, especially the dialogue, really makes me picture every character both looking and sounding like Harry Truman.
As an entirely secular person, I can't imagine a roomful of people being inspired by a rousing spiritual speech.
The characterization of the main character, Father Urban, is convincing, even if his midcentury verbal mannerisms ring in my ears.
J.F. Powers is less obscure than the previous long out of print author I reviewed, but nonetheless, unless someone was really into either Midwestern literature or American Catholic writers, you'd probably never know him, despite the fact this novel won the American Book Award back in 1963 and his fans included such great writers as Evelyn Waugh and Flannery O'Connor.
His two novels and much of his short fiction dwells on the lives of Catholic priests, mostly on the worldly aspects of the politics and the economic nuts and bolts of working with a large somewhat dysfunctional bureaucracy and dealing with parishioners, whom one must serve as spiritual adviser...
It would be tough to imagine a more boring book.
"Comic masterpiece?" I never even chortled.
An unusual stinker in an interesting collection, this one proves that some books should stay forgotten.
None of the stories tend in any direction and the self-satisfaction of the bloated narrator, full with Sunday dinner and a nice brandy and cigar was a bit too much to take.
It was interesting seeing a Catholic priest be nothing more than a disgruntled employee.
As an lover of the boring, this was instructive in seeing how much art is involved in making boredom lovely...through negative relief.
Rather humorous and charming, but also a tad bit tedious.
and here http://magazine.nd.edu/news/17697-men....Morte D'Urban tells the story of Harvey Roche, who becomes Father Urban of the fictional Clementine order, a sort of discount version of the Jesuits without even a striking habit to distinguish them.
The style reminded me very much of Evelyn Waugh, especially in his earlier books, except with a sort of uniquely midwestern-American flatness.
There is a subplot where one of the priests Father Urban works with is writing a retelling of Morte D'Arthur.
Is Father Urban guilty of "high treason" with worldly power?
Powers reminds me more of Percy than of O'Connor, but I like Morte D'Urban better than I liked The Moviegoer.
I was not actually aware of the hierarchy (yeah, I knew there were bishops and archbishops, etc) and the political relationships between the orders.Urban is a great anti-hero.
Frequently, I tell my children that I can't wait until the moment that one of them responds to the pestering of the other with "whatever" rather than getting upset and engaging in the fight.I also loved "only great saints and little children lived each moment for all it was worth." because I am always striving to just enjoy each moment as it comes.Overall it has a few funny moments and it was certainly enlightening because I didn't know a whole lot about the structure of the internal workings of the Catholic church.
Granted, it suffers a little bit from the same kind of disjointed narrative track that Cheever Wapshot Chronicle suffers from, but to nowhere near the same degree.
But that's this novel's only flaw (unless you count 'being about a priest' as a flaw, which I don't, but some might): it's beautifully written, quietly hilarious in an Evelyn Waugh kind of way, and extraordinarily subtle in its depiction of the unbridgeable gap between the best and worst aspects of modern human beings.
My only complaint (occasional disjointed narrative aside) is that he only wrote two novels.
Morte D'Urban, like Catcher in the Rye, explores phonyness in post-war U.S. Compared to Salinger's classic, though, Morte D'Urban adopts a more adult if slightly more compromised view. Taking as its subject the business of operating the Catholic church, Morte D'Urban does a fantastically funny job describing the uncomfortable grooming of unsavory donors by the more worldly priests who understand the Church's need of them. Brilliantly, this book spells out the toll this mercenary relationship takes on the spiritual sincerity of the church's most dedicated servants.
DNFI went to the trouble of doing an interlibrary loan on this and really did try to finish reading it. After all it had won the 1963 National Book Award for fiction. I felt like I needed to read this, to justify the effort to procure it. But unfortunately that wasn't enough, I just didn't get it. Touted as humorous, I kept waiting. Not everyones cup of tea I guess.
This was supposed to be a very big deal - good reviews from New Yorker, etc., and it did have it moments. However, the main interest was some insight into the social and political life of catholic priests in the middle of the last century. Perhaps it was more shocking then. I did finish it, but that's about all I can say about it.
Catholicism is darkly comic in J.F. Powers's Morte D'Urban - would that it were more comic, less dark, in the real world...See the full review at www.newsoutherngentleman.wordpress.com - link available on my Goodreads page. Thanks for stopping by!
slowly and quietly builds to a devastating ending. diary of a minnesotan priest.
Already in MORTE D'URBAN, it now turns out, Powers had rendered a priest admirably worldly and canny about the foibles of common folk, never one to judge nor decry when svelter maneuvers are called for (though susceptible to the aforementioned pitfalls).
It is because of this the Powers's novels (and stories) are above all social comedies more concerned w/ specificities of time and place - how the human project becomes expressed or compressed in them - then they are about universal spiritual matters.
Just on a totally personal level, I hold Powers to be one of the very great American writers, and MORTE D'URABAN is predictably a total triumph.
Powers satirizes a Catholic priest who, tempted by the worldly rewards of popular preaching, nevertheless remains “true to his vow of poverty — to the spirit, though, rather than the letter.” His priests dramatize the man of God whose spiritual vocation has disappeared into fundraising and “pastoral” work--social visits with aging congregants.
“For nineteen cents a day, my friends, you can clothe, feed, and educate a young man for the priesthood,” Father Urban says.
In the end, Father Urban abandons “the fast-changing world of today” for the presence of grace.
I suppose one could glean a certain amount of satisfaction from recognizing that in any business or corporation -- in this instance, The Order of St. Clementine, a Catholic diocese in 1950's Chicago -- administrative incompetence and the perils and confusion of bureaucracy are alive and well.
Poor Father Urban, a man too good for his job, is forced to work under men and systems either broken or willfully ignorant.
Despite a steady stream of successes and a growing following of admirers, Father Urban remains under foot.
In the end he attains the sought-after position of Father Provincial of the Order, and yet by this time he has been irrevocably wounded both physically and spiritually.
Wonderfully wry and knowing portrait of a Catholic priest laboring in the hinterlands. Powers is respectful and refreshingly non-ironic in sketching the life of Father Urban, a priest in a fictitious order. Father Urban never ceases to do his best to honor his heavenly father and carry out his calling despite an overwhelming and indifferent church bureaucracy and an equally indifferent and selfish flock. I wish there were more literary efforts that investigate the lives of sincere believers. This is a book I will be buying for friends.
This is a gentle, slow-moving story of a bon vivant Catholic priest in mid-50s (?) midwest America, and the foibles and flaws of his colleagues in the backwaters of the Order of St Clementine as they try to manage their affairs. The humour is rather dry and indirect, to the point of obscurity at times, and the story drags in places. Some characters seem important for awhile, then disappear without another word. It's uneven and the ending is somehow out of character with the rest and weakly anti-climactic.
I really don't know why I stayed with this book. I felt like I was slogging through it, fighting for every chapter I read. I think the Minnesota location was one of the reasons I was drawn to this book. I do have to concede that I did care about the fate of Father Urban. Unfortunately the ending left me feeling flat....all that effort and very little to show for it. I will have to admit that there were times when it was amusing, but not enough times to make reading 3oo pages of small print worth it.
A satire of the Catholic Church featuring Father Urban a priest from the fictitious religious order of the Clementines, a mediocre order with no distinctions to its credit. The story illustrates the all too real fact of the all too humanness of the priests with all of the same faults as any layperson. My only criticism is that the author, at times, stretched to far to be funny and the joke fell flat.
Funny if you like Catholicism. Priest tries to improve a dysfunctional religious sect and is met with various challenges as he is relocated from Chicago to rural Minnesota. That’s it. I read this because it won a National Book Award, I think
Wish I could recall what prompted me to check out this 1960 novel about a priest from Chicago transfered to MN, well outside his accustomed well travelled sphere of influence. Liked it, but didn't understand its closing chapters, or the title. Glad to have encountered this author.
Petty squabbles, intense emotions and condescension shouldn't be a part of the cloistered life....but they are.
This started well but really dragged. Had to stop halfway through.
