https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6949648-the-green-hills-of-earth-the-menace-from-earth
Few of the stories aimed at a younger audience for example "The Black Pits of Luna" and "Menace from Earth" I found to be less interesting but still not boring---Highly recommended especially for those who enjoy a good vintage sf!What else to say?
Here is how I would grade the stories individually:"Deliah and the Space- Rigger" 4"Space Jockey" 4"The Long Watch" 5 "Gentleman, Be Seated" 5"The Black Pits of Luna" 3"It's Great to be Back" 5"We Also Walk Dogs" 4"Ordeal in Space" 5" The Green Hills of Earth" 5"Logic of Empire" 5" The Year of the Jackpot" 4" By His Bootstraps" 5" Columbus was a Dope" 4" The Menace from Earth" 4" Sky Lift" 5" Goldfish Bowl" 5" Project Nightmare" 4"Water is for Washing" 4
Ahhh...Heinlein....what can you say; always good.
Awesome vintage short story collection from my beloved Robert Heinlein. Tragedy, humor, self-sacrifice, romance and heroism. I'm not sure it gets better than this in speculative fiction.
The Green Hills of EarthComplete Collection Rating: 7/10 (Good)This short story collection gathers together many stories from the middle portion of Heinline's Future Histories series.
The palpable and well crafted atmosphere gives the already solid storytelling an additional boost of quality.The Menace from EarthComplete Collection Rating: 7/10 (Good)Only the short story The Menace from Earth from this collection is part of Heinline's Future Histories Timeline.
By His Bootstraps - 7/10 (Good)Aside from the fact that the main character is a bit dense and slow to catch onto things completely obvious to the reader, I still feel like this is a pretty solid time travel yarn.
Great collection of short stories. Interesting concepts that make you think.
TimelessAn illustrated set of human principles of thought that are true now and will be for as long as humans survive in this universe.
This review is for the final story of the collection: Logic of Empire.Well, this book was downright confusing.
It originally appeared in Astounding Science Fiction (March 1941), and was collected in The Green Hills of Earth (and subsequently The Past Through Tomorrow).It just seems like Heinlein wanted to write a fish-out-of-water story about a uppity White man sold into slavery....and how everything was unnatural because he was simply a white Lawyers stuck on Venus.It is awesome though, that the same setting of Venus is used here, as he used in "Space Cadet".
But, this story was here, there, everywhere.
All SF written back then shows the times it was written.
We find mistaken guesses about the future, racist and sexist attitudes of the past projected to the future, and such things as spacemen smoking on their rocket ships.Heinlein though has stories that still resonate.
Part of that was his great skill at writing (in a folksy accessible manner), but part of it was because he went beyond the surface of how people behave and showed their souls.I'm starting to get e-books of books I have had decades, and re-read.
I've had mixed feelings about the great writers of the past.
Clunky but has its MomentsIt's not a great work of literature but there are enough number of moments in this anthology where Heinlein nails it with a perfect combination of the fantastic and the mundane. The latter in particular is the kind of thing frequently omitted in the stories of other science fiction writers but is essential to creating a truly believable world.
These are classic stories from the golden age of science fiction. Their science has been overtaken by our current understanding of the solar system, but most of the characters and their stories still resonate with us today.
Two excellent juveniles from the Dean of Science Fiction. I especially liked The Menace From Earth because I was reading it to one of my neighbors kids when their mom needed a break. She thought it was "neat" that there was a girl lead in a science fiction book
I grew up reading Heinlein and while I would say his writing is not elegant it was important in shaping science fiction in the middle 20th century. I still enjoy these stories - like sitting with old friends.
Solid collection of short stories.
Good collection of Heinlein shorts. Some are too dated to really be appreciated today, but a Heinlein fan will enjoy the familiar plotting and characters.
