https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4978.Wolves_of_the_Calla
(B+) 76% | GoodNotes: Essentially one long side quest, it's hampered by a plodding back-story but recovers and ends on an interesting twist.

Proceeded to narrate to me in a hoarse, bored drawl over a series of three-to-four weeks the world's longest, most uninteresting story while my head lolled back, my lips grew dry with thirst, and my bum achedIf this book had been written by any writer other than Stephen King, it would never have been published.
Callahan's tale - which is interspersed throughout the main storyline - moves in a pace that a story like this should move - like hurried steps on a Manhattan sidewalk, like a nervous glance backward as though someone might be following you.
The 2011 re-read:Roland and his ka-tet of gunslingers ride into Calla Bryn Sturgis, a town with a problem.
There were so many wrinkles to the story that I'd forgotten.I love how the Man in Black doubled back and met Callahan at the Way Station while Roland and Jake were on in trail in The Gunslinger.
I'd say watching Roland interact with the people of Calla Bryn Sturgis in this book went a lot farther in showing what kind of man Roland was before the world moved on.I can't really say much more for fear of giving too many things away to people who have never read it.
Oh Mr king you are one weird cat!!The Wolves of Calla is the fifth in the Dark Tower series, or 6th if you read Wind through the keyhole as 4.5.The Ka-tet have survived Blaine, Lud, lobstrosities, mob bosses and many other things and they are back on the beam to the Dark Tower, at least that is their belief.
But then Stephen King actually appears in the notice on the window of the Manhattan Restaurant of the Mind and then later on the very cover of his book, 'Salems Lot.Jake and Eddie even discuss using the doors as portals to go back to New York and change history, very much like 11.22.63.
Let us continue on our quest to the Dark Tower.
But they’re being watched by the folken of the Calla.
Calla Bryn Sturgis.As much as Roland’s Tet would love to take a different route, Roland explains to them why they can’t.
The wolves send them back once they’re done with them and that twin is forever ROONT; a drooling buffoon capable** of mostly just grunts and giggles.One of my favorite characters became a favorite because of this book- Pere Callahan.
It is continued here in the Calla.
I just can’t wait to continue this journey with my Ka-Tet.
This book did me real fine.
Say thank ya.I must be picking up the language from Calla Bryn Sturgis/Mid-World because it seems lately, I've been saying the speech of the people.
I almost said, "Thankee-sai" as I was handed my receipt today at the grocery store.
(The grocery store thing is true, however.) What a fan-freaking-tastic book.
Thanks King for delivering a solid book again.
I won't be surprised if Calla Bryn Sturgis/Mid-World speech is here to stay in my English speech.
This book took me the longest to get through of the dark tower series, but I blame that more on school than the book itself.
I found this book to be fascinating, and so important to the connection of all the worlds and universes surrounding the dark tower.
It's funny though, the conflict stated in the title of the book acted more as a clock than an actual tense moment.
The real important parts of the story came from the interactions with the calla folk, the hidden object I won't mention because spoiler, and the todash journeys.Im incredibly excited to complete the 6th and 7th books!
Or, if you bothered to read the controversial Wind Through the Keyhole novel in the proper order, then you last read of the group seeking shelter from a Starkblast, and spending a little more time reminiscing over Roland’s past—yeah, it’s never enough.
Either way, the start of our story here sees our fearless ka-tet back along the Path of the Beam, drawing ever nearer to the Dark Tower, until they’re accosted by some townsfolk seeking help.The locals tell of some strange goings-on in their home town of Calla Bryn Sturgis.
. .This story initially appeared to be yet another diversion to sidetrack our group from their ultimate goal of reaching the Dark Tower.
The shot missed the cactus by a wide margin, ricocheted off a nearby boulder and lodged itself in the fat rancher’s left buttock.“I cry your pardon,” blurted the shooter.As the group behind the rancher started muttering angrily, the two blondes hurriedly grabbed the big man set him on his horse and galloped quickly away ignoring the furious shouts from behind them.“Ka?” came out like a belch from Jumpin’.“I’ll give ya yer fill of ka later,” shouted Quick Draw.
And so it was, three and a half years ago, that I stopped reading Stephen King altogether.
Having begun him at age 12, and having read every single book up to that point, by my mid-twenties I was definitely reading his new stuff out of habit alone.
Because I read this book, which contains more filler than I thought you could put in 700 pages, and which confirmed that King had disappeared so far up his own ass that he had to connect everything he'd written in the previous 30+ years to this magical world that became less and less interesting every time he expanded it.Thus I moved on with my life.
I think this might be my favorite (so far) of all the Dark Tower series of books....which says a lot.If you were to combine a Western film with the TV show LOST with Back to the Future with a Horror film, you would *almost* have the vibe achieved here.
There is hardly anything I can say that will not spoil at least PART of the book, so I will simply continue to sing its praises.
The way that EVERYTHING he has ever written seems to somehow serve the Dark Tower?
WARNING= do not read if you haven't read the previous 4 books or you'll be *ahem*...LOST.
I didn't really realize until I'd picked up this book that I was kind of in a reading funk for a bit.
And it's not just sucked in, but I was able to pick back up after a year or two with only my rusty memory of the previous 5 (counting Wind through the Keyhole) books.
Some commentary on the ending: (view spoiler)[ I did think the ending was a bit anti-climactic, but then again we were warned previously that when guns get pulled out, it can all be over in a few minutes.
I think that's one of the greatest parts of this book.
I much prefer this narrator over Frank Muller.
(At this end of this audio book, King himself speaks about Frank Muller and why he didn't continue narrating this series-it was due to a motorcycle accident in which he was seriously injured.
It's to help independent authors, narrators and frelancers during times of catastrophe.
) To find out more, please click here: http://www.thehavenfdn.org/ I was sorry to hear about what happened, but I'm glad to have George Guidall back as narrator and I'm looking forward to listening to the next book.
All hail the King. Mind blown. Full review to come once I put the pieces of my brain back together...stay tuned!
Though I love King when he writes big books, but this one was unnecessarily huge and 150-200 pages could have been cut off.
This is one of the cases when King turns wordy.Nevertheless, the book was entertaining and the characters were great, especially Jake, whose character-arc evolve dramatically but powerfully.
I loved meeting once again that character from 'Salem's Lot. His character and story were so much fun and terrifying.
I wanted something mind-blowing to take place, alas, I wasn't satisfied.Very good one but not great, but highly-recommended.
I absolutely LOVED this!
it is a testament to King's skill that we don't get to the actual showdown in this book until the very final chapter.
And did we get any nearer to the Dark Tower?This was a pivotal book here in terms of the series because King has to start bringing his series together now (only 2 books to go) and to my mind he does an upstanding job.
One little intrigue for those of you who haven't read it to ponder and for those who have read it to enjoy: loved the idea of the sneetches!If you haven't guessed by now: Recommended!
It's suffice for me to say it's a million times better than book 4 (that one's a mess - I didn't even finish it).
The story gets back to the quest to find the Dark Tower, I'm finally warming up to the characters and in few words, I liked it.A little warning for people who want to read this series: Read King's 'Salem's Lot first.
They were especially better when the characters were clueless - somehow that made them cute.
Let's see when I find the time to read book 6.
This was a refreshing return to the story of the Ka-Tet and their journey.
After what felt like thousands of pages of flashbacks and backstory in Wizard & Glass and Wind Through the Keyhole, Wolves of the Calla returns to Roland and friends in their quest for the Dark Tower.
There is so much drama throughout book five, leading up to an exciting ending that leaves you desperate to start the next book right away (which I did!).
This book almost feels like a reintroduction of sorts to the main characters and sets up a final two books to the series that is surely to be a page turner til the end!
I would go as far as saying this is in my top two DT books but the slowness of the start means that it can’t pip “The Drawing of the Three” for me but there were plenty of positives that would mean I would gladly look forward to re-reading this in my, inevitable, series re-read.The nuts and bolts of the plot was basically the Gunslingers defending a helpless village from invaders who would take their children.
Overall, a really good read adding to a series that is slowly climbing up my list of all-time favourites.If you like this try: “The Ecstasy of Gold” by Metallica
This series is fucking perfect. And that Epilogue. Literally; holy shit. That's all I have to say on the matter. Long days and pleasant nights.
“First comes smiles, then lies. Last is gunfire."  - Roland Deschain, of GileadDark Tower reviews:#1  The Gunslinger #2  The Drawing of the Three #3  The Waste Lands #4  Wizard and Glass #5  Wolves of the Calla #6  Song of Susannah #7  The Dark Tower
I've become so invested in these characters and their journey that it feels like they've become a part of me.
I had forgotten a lot of the details of the story so at times it's almost like I'm on the Dark Tower journey again for the first time.
I feel like now that I'm a bit older, I'm able to truly appreciate the epicness of this tale.
I hadn't read as many King books the first time I read the series and it's truly stunning how he has woven in his other works and characters from them.
This book is definitely one of my favourites out of the series.
I really like Callahan as a character, and his story only made me like him more.For me, it was interesting to Roland at work as an actual Gunslinger.
It's kind of interesting to me how the vast majority of the book is planning, while the actual battle goes relatively quickly.
Maybe this will make the book slow going for some, but I was fascinated the whole way.Speaking of, I want to make an aside to specifically say how much I liked that, though there's a divide in the town, the ones who are against accepting Roland's help are not portrayed as being in any way evil.
If this series was written by any less of a writer, we would throw it to the side as the most ridiculous of fan-fiction.
Actually, all of the times they just know things would normally get this disregarded as complete tripe.
But somehow King makes it work.
King somehow makes completely ridiculous...
I can think of very few writers* who could pull off writing these situations and not only have readers not throw it away, but consider it great.
* Actually Gaiman is the only one that comes to mind, but if pressed, I could probably think of another one or two
It is well tied in to all the past books, and it is in this book that we meet Father Callahan, from Salem's Lot. It was while reading this book that I completely fell in love with the characters.
When I read this the tears started and I was covered in chills.
Roland, The Gunslinger: "For Gilead and the Calla!" he roared.
"Now, gunslingers!
Kill them all!"If you have read this book, you know what I mean!
I am going to buy the audio version of this book just so that I can listen to it in my car.
AWESOME book!
Just as amazingly the group that goes to meet them includes none other than Father Calahan, now relocated in place and time from the town of Salem's Lot. This story stands on its own in many ways but also ties in very nicely with the overall plot and direction of the dark tower series.
I think it's important to have read the previous dark tower books and Salem's Lot to get the most out of this work.
But in any case, its another great read and testimony to King's genius.
Fortunately for those involved, situations like this can help to shape a person and while Roland’s Ka-Tet is undoubtedly united, they are far from the force they are destined to become.While I’ve read a good chunk of Uncle Stevie’s yarns, I have yet to check out Salem’s Lot. With Father Callahan playing such an integral role in the novel, I couldn’t help but feel I may have missed a few things here and there.
The wait between Glass and Wolves was another six years!
Thankfully, I can grab books six and seven whenever I damn well feel like it.
I think his cowboy name should be changed to Procrastinatin' Shenanigan Playin' Dastardly Dan.Buddy read with- Quick Draw Stepheny, Jumpin' Jeff, Procrastinatin' Shenanigan Playin' Dastardly Dan, Calamity Bev, Bronco Bustin' Black Jackin' Jason, and  Cahootin' Christopher [image error]I can't believe our journey is almost finished (only 2 more books)...and my guess is the fun is over and the heartbreak is about to begin.
Just remember...you brought this on yourself ;)[image error]WOLVES OF CALLA begins in the farming village of Calla Bryn Sturgis.
The townsfolk need Roland and his ka-tet's help to battle against the Wolves of Thunderclap.
«No one ever does live happily ever after, but we leave the children to find that out for themselves.»For decades, the Wolves have come from Thunderclap to take children from Calla Bryn Sturgis, and then return them roont. After 23 quiet years, they're coming back again, and the folken, knowing that a ka-tet of gunslingers is close to their town, ask them for help.As The Dark Tower series moves forward, it gets more complex and more epic, and after the emotionally devastating  Wizard and Glass ,
Don't you dare!Anyways, I LOVED to see Father Callahan again, to know more about what happened to him after the events in Salem's Lot, and I feel he'll have a great importance in the next books.
Hell, he was the major character of this book, and I just loved that!King also explored some of the people from Calla Bryn Sturgis, and I created bonds with them, like Ben and Andy (a robot!).Obviously, there was the mystery around the Wolves and why they did what they did, and that was so damn intriguing!
