https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/499533.A_Jest_of_God
"My great mistake was in being born the younger. No. Where I went wrong was in coming back here, once I'd got away. A person has to be ruthless. One has to say I'm going, and not be prevailed upon to return."This is now definitely a favorite book and author of mine. I just know that I will love Laurence's other works, especially those set in Manawaka. Rachel is such a dear character. Probably viewed by many in her little town, including her mother, as a quiet and submissive spinster school teac
Rachel is such a dear character.
Probably viewed by many in her little town, including her mother, as a quiet and submissive spinster school teacher, Rachel is anything but that.
Just like the Paul Newman film based on this book implies, most of the plot and dialogue takes place in her head.
Love, love, love this book.
I had watched the film a month earlier and it had just lingered in the back of my mind...so when I saw this title on the shelf with other books, it immediately jumped out at me.
The best souvenirs are books, in my humble opinion.
Alex Colville, "Summer in Town"When I picked up this book to start reading it, I giggled at how incredibly Canadian it is.
She is possibly the loneliest character I've read in a long time.She desperately wants to be seen as a good person, to be a good daughter.
She starts to see that "people get the lives they want" - and if this is the case, how will she make that happen for herself?
I love the strong voice she gives to women, to Canadians, and how modern this still reads, even though it was written over half a century ago.Alex Colville, "To Prince Edward Island"
margaret atwood, to me, the lesser margaret of canadian literature, remarks in her afterword about this book by the margaret i consider the greater, that she read it in one sitting, which seems about right (just because i dislike her characters does not mean i always disagree with her.) still, i believe my weak powers of concentration did me an inadvertent service here because a jest of god is not an easy book to read, even if it is, in style and on the surface, a simple one.rachel cameron is a thirty-four year old woman who teaches grade two and lives with her mother in a small apartment in the house in the small town she grew up in.
If only I could concur with Margaret Atwood's enthusiasm for 'A Jest of God' and her boundless admiration for Margaret Laurence, who had the power to reduce her to 'a quaking jelly'. If only I had a time machine. It would take me to year 1966 and I would reread 'A Jest of God' then. At that point I would probably look like that, while writing this review:Alas, the year is 2017 and as it seems, some charm of this novel has evaporated. It made me think of a long-forgotten bottle of once-alluring perfume.Review to come.
(3.5) This is the second in Laurence’s five-novel Manawaka sequence; it followed  The Stone Angel  (1964), which I reviewed in December. Recently reissued as part of the Apollo Classics imprint, these two books have been a wonderful opportunity for me to further my knowledge of Canadian literature.Although Rachel Cameron, the narrator of A Jest of God, is a 34-year-old second-grade teacher who still lives with her mother, she has attributes in common with 90-year-old Hagar Shipley, the unforgett
Recently reissued as part of the Apollo Classics imprint, these two books have been a wonderful opportunity for me to further my knowledge of Canadian literature.Although Rachel Cameron, the narrator of A Jest of God, is a 34-year-old second-grade teacher who still lives with her mother, she has attributes in common with 90-year-old Hagar Shipley, the unforgettable central character of The Stone Angel.
Apollo Classics have also chosen an excellent cover image: a 1960 photograph by Rosemary Gilliat Eaton entitled Woman preparing paint for an art class, Frobisher Bay.Once again, I enjoyed Laurence’s turns of phrase, especially when describing people: Calla is a “wind-dishevelled owl,” while the six-foot-tall Rachel sees herself in the mirror as “this giraffe woman, this lank scamperer.” But the overall story for me was significantly less memorable than The Stone Angel.
I love the way Laurence writes, but I do not expect happy reads.
Her characters are real people, but they often withhold themselves emotionally.
My memory isn't perfect on the others I've read, so I can't say this is a willful withholding.
It isn't willful here - Rachel Cameron would like more than anything to be able to speak what she thinks.
I wanted this to be a 5-star read, and I can't figure out why I think it comes up short.
In a way, Margaret Laurence has crafted a mature coming of age story.
Striving to send out the message, that it's not too late to be what you might of become earlier on in life.
The protagonist featured in Laurence's stories of life in Manawaka, Canada, is Rachel, a spinster teacher who finds herself stuck in a middle some life, going nowhere.
Rachel's life is suddenly turned around for the better, sense of humor always intact.
Margaret Laurence handles her protagonist with gentle care, respecting and encouraging her decisions.
But that would be a disaster, from every point of view except the most inner one, and if you choose that side, you would really be on your own, now and for ever, and that couldn't, I think, be borne, not by me.Poor Rachel, always thinking and then backtracking and correcting her thinking, as though the expectations of Manawaka society in general and her mother in particular ought to have control even over her private thoughts.
Knowing that she can never tell the father, who has skipped town anyway, or her mother, whose frail heart would never survive the humiliation, Rachel considers suicide and then, as a last resort, an appeal to the God she doesn't believe in.
We’ve been talking in class about this idea: whether because an author does terrible things in their work/public life, whether we then need to dismiss their writing because of their unsavory personal story.
I don’t know if it’s the same when an author writes about their unsavoury ideas, but does so in a beautiful and compelling way.)Not a problem in “Jest of God,” though.
It’s also about Rachel figuring out how to be in her own skin without feeling like her skin is crawling.I appreciate the book for its merits: beautifully plotted, rich character development, haunting narrative voice.
I was raised in the US and had little introduction to Laurence except through the Diviners, which I remembered primarily because of the sperm stain on the woman's dress.
And when I read The Stone Angel, I was too young to appreciate the feelings therein.
And, sorry to say, high school English ruined it for me.This book I picked up because the woman in it is at a phase of her life I could identify with entirely.
I feel so for Rachel.
It's given me a new appreciation for Laurence after the high school destruction.
3.5 ⭐ "I am not praying - if that is what I am doing - out of belief. Only out of need" 🤗"What will happen? What will happen. It may be that my children will always be temporary, never to be held. But so are everyone's. I will be lonely, almost certainly"This was a remarkable little book about a unremarkable woman. These stories should be told...yet something of this story is probably of its time. Whilst not exactly plot driven, this book the 'self', female sexuality and the nature of life itsel
3.5 ⭐️ "I am not praying - if that is what I am doing - out of belief. Only out of need" 🤗"What will happen? What will happen. It may be that my children will always be temporary, never to be held. But so are everyone's. I will be lonely, almost certainly"This was a remarkable little book about a unremarkable woman. These stories should be told...yet something of this story is probably of its time. Whilst not exactly plot driven, this book the 'self', female sexuality and the nature of life itself. I would highly recommend.
When a man she remembers from childhood comes back to town for the summer, they embark on an affair that, although it doesn't end happily, gives Rachel the courage and self-confidence she needs to change her life for good.
It threatens her relationships before Nick, her lover, comes to town; her shame after attending an evangelical meeting at Calla's church nearly destroys the friendship between the two women (and Calla, we know, is a woman not without courage in facing her own life).
It is simply the tool that Rachel needs to lever herself out of one life and into another, which, by the end, she does, described in prose that is both moving and beautiful.
Rachel Cameron is a shy, thirty-four-year-old school teacher, leading a life of stifling conventionality in the small Canadian town she grew up in.
Years before she had made a brief escape to attend college, but returned to live with and care for her mother following her father’s death.
Rachel is in part surprised to find herself teaching in the school where she was once a child – there is a definite feeling that she has not had the opportunity to move her life forward, stuck still in the landscape of her childhood.“I remember myself skipping rope to that song when I was about the age of the little girls out there now.
This is a very good, well-written novel with wonderful character development. It only seems dated perhaps in that sexual mores had not changed yet in this time period and in this small town -- which is one of the themes of the novel. But the inner life of this lonely 34-year-old woman is not dated, and her unarticulated emotions and feelings are easily understood. And, oh, those conversations she has with her mother! They are so real as to be almost painful. I look forward to reading more by Laurence one day.
This book disturbed me at many levels. It was excellently written. The story of a very uptight "spinster" in the mid sixties who was a bit of a nervous nellie evoked some emotion in me as this woman reminded me a lot of certain women in my life. I was able to understand some of the reasons why this "type" of women acts the way she does, and I'm not sure I am totally happy with the answer. It was a really good read, though, for all that. I'm glad I read it.
Their relationship was unusual and brief leading to Rachel reassessing her on life, her own experience and the town she lived in.Manawaka is a fictional small town reminiscent of Laurence’s own experience in small town Manitoba and perhaps her own loneliness which is discussed in the video links below.This CBC Archived interview with Margaret Laurence speakis about her Manawaka series and how Rachel had difficulty connecting with others.
She described how she started her novels with an interesting character which was then followed by plot saying that “in a sense writing a novel is a sort of discovery” (Laurence, CBC Interview, 1966).
In another CBC Archived Interview her loneliness and drinking problems were discussed posthumously.
Her mother isn’t outwardly dominating, thus I can’t fathom Rachel regularly giving into baseless guilt trips.
Her mother’s guise of helplessness was most unrealistic of all, regarding serving sandwiches for card-playing cronies.
She could serve on her own.
Rachel’s reluctance to praise a pupil she adored also baffled me.
Reluctance to be seen, or copulate outdoors was valid.
I washed my hands of her, when she deemed public opinion more important than a pregnancy!
She ended up being firm with her mother about moving near her sister.
However she changed her tune too rashly about an important step that ought to be discussed two ways.
This novel is narrated by repressed thirty-something schoolteacher Rachel, living in Manawaka with her ailing, manipulative mother.
Hopelessly shy and self-obsessed, Rachel is still a virgin, dreaming of love and cursing her mother's constant harping on "what other people will think", even though she herself is haunted by exactly the same concerns.
When she meets Nick, it's clear to the reader, but unfortunately not to Rachel, what he's up to, and the outcome is inevitable.
Surely Laurence must have been infuriated by the tacky cover and blurb of the (bookmooched) film tie-in paperback edition that I read.
"Rachel had waited a long time for love ...
4.5 🌟Have you ever read a book and by the end of it, you found yourself wanting to laugh at the twist being presented to you by dear author?
This story made me want to laugh & cry at the same time.Rachel Cameron is a school teacher in a small town of Manakawa.
The story was told in Rachel's point of view so we got to see a lot of her thoughts & emotions.
She would have to make decisions and start thinking of herself before anybody else.
No to me- always to someone else- as one thinks also of the most wanted.
Another classic of Canadian literature and a huge disappointment for me as a fan of Margaret Laurence whose Stone Angel is one of my favourite books.A Jest of God follows Rachel Cameron, a 34-year-old spinster school teacher in the small prairie town of Manawaka.
For most of the book there is a wide discrepancy between what Rachel is in her visible public life, how she deals with and appears to others, and what she really thinks and feels.
I didn’t like Rachel at all and wanted to slap her silly: she hated being misunderstood but never said what she thought.
Wow. What a sad book.
Maybe not completely sad.
I certainly felt discomfited by Rachel's inability to get out of her own way.
How every sliver of hope life presented to her or that she allowed herself to dream was squashed by her insecurity and by her mother's neurosis and self-absorption.
(view spoiler)[You knew from the beginning that her ersatz relationship with Nick was doomed, but yet you hoped.
Part of me felt that Rachel herself was doomed, and yet I allowed myself to hope.
Even though Rachel found the strength to take charge of her life, you did not leave the story cheering and hopeful, energized for the future.
Ah, the star rating system.
Cheap and easy, unlike this book.
I have reserved 5 stars for the life-changers, the elite, those books that hold up to a reading/decade and continue to blossom and unfold.
I've given To Kill a Mocking Bird a marginal 5; Cry the Beloved Country a solid one.
The intriguing aspect of this book for me was that Rachel Cameron was able to grow, actually to outgrow the shell of small home town rigidity, disappointment in career, her own awkward incarnation and move on and out.
For approximately four-fifths of this novel, I had "Jane Eyre" syndrome: all I could do was scream at the protagonist to "GET A LIFE...GROW A SPINE...FIGHT BACK AND ASSERT YOURSELF!" It was extremely well-written and realistic...but it drove me completely crazy.
I just wanted to slap the main character with a fish until she grabbed hold of the reins of her life -- it lasted far too long for my taste, and I almost gave up on the sheer relentless self-pity & self-loathing.
The final chapter rescued this novel from my slush pile...but not enough to put it in the same category as other Margaret Laurence epics such as "The Stone Angel" and "The Diviners".
Not as alluring as her other books in the Manawaka series. This was too much navel-gazing, too much of a neurotic woman slowly losing and it and then pulling herself out in some miraculous final act. If you like the typical Canadian writing, in which all you read is from an anxious woman's perspective, then dive in. If not, go to Laurence's other works in the series.
I read this 40 years ago and loved it because I was at the same stage as Rachel: low, low, low self esteem. But now, after reading it again, I'm beyond frustrated with her. This is still a good book - insightful and beautifully-written, but it's almost painful to read. She is absolutely her own worst enemy, and it's very difficult to spend time with people like that.
The pathos of the main character, Rachel Cameron, was palpable. I almost couldn't stand reading it. It's like being with that friend who sucks your energy dry. Yet, Margaret Laurence has created characters that felt real and for that, I gave the book 4 stars.
Rachel is trying to find her way out of despair, possibly madness. She is shackled to an overbearing mother who victimizes her at every turn. She struggles to find a better and finally does. Very sensitively written.
While at times extremely dull, this is the kind of book that sticks with you long after you're done, earning itself merit as you find yourself reflecting on Rachel's struggles months afterward.
If you want to wallow in the morale and the morals of the 50's (?) this book is a great portrayal of that era.
Couldn't finish reading this one because I found the protagonist to be whiny and that was annoying. I thought I would like this one because I read The Stone Angel, and that was just amazing.
