https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70240.The_Atrocity_Exhibition
In an introduction written more than 30 years after first publication, Ballard suggests readers scan a chapter for headings that catch their eye, and if they find them interesting, to move on to nearby ones, so maybe one approach is to list a selection of paragraph titles, out of sequence?departurejourneys to an interiorsome bloody accidentthe realization of dreamscontours of desirean existential yesthe conceptual deathquestions, always questionshung among the corridors of sleepsoft geometrythe impossible roomthe geometry of her facetransliterated pudendaimaginary perversionsinterlocked bodiesfractured smilethe lost symmetry of the blastosphereMy edition includes Ballard's extensive notes, without which much of it would be impenetrable (and not just the pop culture references) - though perhaps it would be less disturbing without them.There's little point trying to describe the "story" or characters, but it does involve one who monitors how subjects react to scenes of car crashes as a proxy for (well, in addition to) his own life and experiences: "the eucharist of the simulated auto-disaster".
The Atrocity Exhibition is something like a shock therapy – it is painstakingly unpleasant but it makes one react.“Now that sex is becoming more and more a conceptual act, an intellectualization divorced from affect and physiology alike, one has to bear in mind the positive merits of the sexual perversions.”The Atrocity Exhibition is a series of dreamscapes or, to be more precise, madscapes born in the sick mind of the protagonist – the psychiatrist with the split and fragmented identity.
As for his novels, they can be astoundingly original but also too obsessive.*The Atrocity Exhibition* is an experimental novel, but it reads more like a collection of very strange and bewildering (though certainly powerful and affecting) linked stories -- except that the stories aren't really linked in a normal sense: they are more like echoes, amplified feedback, psychotic recursions of each other.
The last quarter is the best: the satire becomes more easy to comprehend, despite its excessive savagery.The main problem I have with *The Atrocity Exhibition* is that I simply don't agree with many of Ballard's beliefs that inform the book.
And Ballard's obsessions can become too intrusive in a way that isn't good.

"The Atrocity Exhibition" is a profound book in which a man's fragmented self explores the post-modern era of Hollywood stars, art icons, Pop celebs and Congo massacres, WW3 (yes) bomber pilots, pornography (the ultimate form of scientific exploration of the human body).The man's several identities set off in search of some possible meaning, a journey through the chaotic orgy of madness and violence taking place all around him (us), at any given moment.
A sloppy summary of this book would be that the main character, Traven, is sliding towards a mental breakdown and is on a quest in the interim to recreate the deaths of iconic media celebrities such as JFK in a way that "makes sense." References to Ballard's love for the surrealists are also hidden throughout this work, particularly Ernst and Dali.
I'm not sure if this is a deficiency on Ballard's part as a writer or if this was his way of allowing the reader to more easily step into the role of the main character.
The descending triangle of the plaza was repeated in the facial geometry of the young woman.
Not exactly a novel, Ballard may have written more involving narratives than this 1970 present-dystopia of modernity in meltdown, but it's unlikely that he has ever surpassed its severe and unsettling perfection of form and function, diamond-hard, brilliant, and single-mindedly focused.
And not to mention that the personal can not help but invade these large-scale concerns: it was also Ballard's attempt to work through the untimely death of his first wife.I've got this in the amazing 1990 RE/Search edition, an unsettling large-format juxtaposition of a newly ballard-annotated text against deftly detourned medical illustration and photographs of modern architecture.
Not plot driven, not character driven, just a series of graphic montages that just get weirder as the book goes on.
I think the author might have been intended the book to be funny.
Perhaps you are not supposed to think about plot, but just let the nasty imagery float across your brain.
Given that the author was a survivor of the Japanese invasion of Shanghai, and was writing this book at the end of the sixties after its decade of tragic celebrity deaths, political assassinations, collapsing Apollo program, unsavoury sexual revolution and the Vietnam War on the TV every day...then perhaps the cramped, dark nature of this horribly dated book is understandable, if not palatable.
It's quite a funny book, of course, unless taken literally (in which case I can't think what kind of quandaries your life must involve on a day-to-day basis).
Only like how it is fascinating to be an officer in the SS or a repo man or some other bizarre means to life sustenance from the perspective of someone who works at HBOS.
Naturally publishing is the most remote and disfigured collective of human thought in history, but this is like starting a war against another species.
This and Crash are two of my favourite books, precisely because of their weirdness, because they showed the teenage me that something surprising and original could be done with the novel form beyond the staid and traditional forms foisted upon us as A level English students.
In addition, the clinical descriptions and the absence of affect in the narrator (partly, I think, the fortuitous result of Ballard's medical training) lend the books an eerie detachment, a reductio ad absurdum of the blasé attitude identified by Georg Simmel as a psychological by-product/coping mechanism of modernity.
Ballard demonstrates beautifully how this blasé attitude, when taken to its logical conclusion - as required by postmodernity (or hypermodernity) - ultimately results in nihilism.
any hope you might have that you're in for anything resembling a linear reading experience will probably dissipate by the second or third story when you realize that the main characters appear to be trapped in some kind of weird psychosexual version of "Krazy Kat", where a man with a similar name goes quietly (or not) crazy, being affected by, among other things, the deaths of JFK and Marilyn Monroe, the impact of the media and news on society, or what appears to be his wife, who dies repeatedly and then gets better in the same way my video game character does when I hit the reset button.
Read Ballard for any length of time and you know he returns to the same obsessive images and landscapes again and again, often to powerful effect.
The landscapes of the Atrocity Exhibition stories are haunted by blown-up, Madonna-like images of women which sometimes literally fill the sky, but which fail to enable his male protagonists to relate to the real women they have beside them.
I can’t help feeling, though, that it was very firmly answered by his last book, Miracles of Life, which is an affirmation of all the humanising elements in his life (most notably his children), as much as The Atrocity Exhibition is about the dehumanising elements.
There's also something to do with space and time, the Kennedy assassination and the cult of celebrity, but quite what that is, erm...I've since discovered, thanks to the intervention of a sympathetic friend (and the author's note, at the very end of the book - helpful!) that this wasn't intended to be read in a linear fashion but dipped into randomly, as well as having accompanying art work.
At first I thought this is going to be good. But the authors self-proclaimed "free association" method of writing quickly becomes tedious. In the version I read, each chapter was followed up with explanations. I found the explanations and their tangential ramblings to be much more interesting than the story itself. I could sum up the book in a few sentences 1) Car crashes are like sex and sex is like car crashes. 2) Ralph Nader, JFK, Marylin Monroe, Jackie Kennedy, Elizabeth Taylor.
Ballard's iconic experimental novel presupposing the death of affect and lending itself to the horrible drum loop that opens Joy Division's Closer. Includes such fun words as 'mimetized' and 'buccal' and 'polyperverse.' It's mad. Very mad. And also brilliant.
He was a smart guy, this Ballard.This is proving a challenging and thought-provoking read.A couple of sentences I love:- "They hung on the enamelled walls like the codes of insoluble dreams, the keys to a nightmare in which she had begun to play a more willing and calculated role."- "For some reason the planes of his face failed to intersect, as if their true resolution took place in some as yet invisible dimension, or required elements other than those provided by his own character and musculature."References to Hiroshima and Nagasaki are calling up memories of when I interviewed the only person to have witnessed the explosion of three atomic bombs: the Trinity test, Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
The concept, the experimental nature, drew me to it, but I know it isn't the kind of thing I enjoy.
I find myself wondering if my mother (a psychiatrist) has read it, and what she'd think.(Knowing our shared taste in literature, I would venture to guess that she doesn't think much of Ballard, but I meant in a psychiatric sense.)End result: I'm convinced of Ballard's skill, no doubt -- he writes with a cold clear edge -- and glad I tried this book, but I'm not keeping it, and I think Ballard's imagination is a bizarre and unpleasant place (science as pornography?!).
A book (like Pynchon's V or Burrough's cut-up novels) to experience, not read.Seriously, you will be immersing your head (if not your heart) into a strangely dis-associative mindspace, made even more disturbing and poignant by its now-fixed place in the past.
But for the curious who crave a difficult slice of a brilliant, perceptive mind at a moment in time where the future we inhabit now was laid out like the progression of a logical equation (for a writer of the time honest enough to grasp it and commit it to to paper), THE ATROCITY EXHIBITION is a must read.This can't be anyone's favorite book because it wounds you and changes you.UNCOMPROMISING!
One of the most visionary books I've read, a startling series of linked stories cataloging mental breakdowns, reenactments of tragic events, sexual obsessions with architectural patterns, the beneficial affects of war atrocity footage, and celebrity sex-death fantasies. Sample chapter titles: "Plan for the Assassination of Jaqueline Kennedy" and "Why I Want to F*** Ronald Reagan." Horrifying, but also tinged with an odd clinical beauty.
An experimental novel about sex, death, media manipulation, car crashes and celebrity, written at the fag-end of the 1960s and foreshadowing various themes found in his later works. The narrative is very repetitive, with chapters telling versions of more or less the same story, and I found it by turns tedious and repellent. Rather too experimental for my tastes - it has taken me forever to read it, and it's only 184 pages long.
I can't decide between three or four stars. Completely random paragraphs...sexuality or cars and more importantly car crashes; JFK, Marilyn, Madme Chiang, and somehow ending plastic surgery. No, none of that is a spoiler. There is no plot, climax, or conclusion...just a tangled journey you get lost in.
And, as I expected, The Atrocity Exhibition is amazingly relevant in today's world of fake news and out-and-out lies, memes and internet hatred, paranoia and alternative facts, in which the collective libido seems charged by nothing so much as images of war refugees and immigrants tortured, killed, or fatally adrift on the Mediterranean sea.
I want to say he predict what will happen, but I think it was happening when he wrote his series of classic novels, but most of us were not aware of that 'Ballard' world that was and is clearly out there and here and everywhere.
Ido not know if his novel "Crash" came before or after "The Atrocity Exhibition, but the book does deal with the same issues of the erotic pull of car accidents and iconic personalities.
Whenever I think of Ballard's work, I sort of want him to be remembered as the underrated Palahniuk of a generation ago.
What he shows you is shocking and disturbing, but as a reader you walk away feeling sorry for him in some weird way.
Ballard's mind was at times as sharp as a razor, and unfortunately I think readers of 'The Atrocity Exhibition' will agree that he occasionally used his weapon imprecisely.
New readers will walk away from this book thinking that this could have been great.
Drugs were quite popular in the early 70s.
Habían pasado tres días desde que se encontraran en el planetario de la playa, y no había hecho otra cosa que pasearse midiendo las dimensiones del apartamento, construyendo desde dentro una suerte de laberinto”.Es complicado hablar de “La exhibición de atrocidades”, este patchwork de obsesiones de J.G. Ballard por el que desfilan Vietnam, la isla de Guam, el asesinato de Kennedy o los accidentes automovilísticos de Dean y Camus, sazonado todo con toda una caterva de parafilias, tecnicismos médicos, pneumáticos abandonados y helicópteros.
Hacia el final, eso sí, me ha aburrido un tanto, pero uno puede entretenerse con los títulos de los diferentes párrafos: ahí están ocultas, sin ir más lejos, las novelas de Raymond Roussel.
Even now it feels new and refreshing - so much further beyond the so-called success stories of British Modern literature - I'm talking the generation after Ballard - yer Amis', yer McEwan's and yer Barnes' - yer nouvelle novel vague vogue fugue.
In comparison, those luvvies seem a continuation of the same dreary middle class Lahndahnocentric pish that we have come to lurve and accept as British writing when in fact there is SO MUCH more out there which challenges the medium in any way you want to take that.
This edition from 4thEstate is particularly good - as indeed have all the other 4thEstate editions of Ballard's books proved to be so far.
E' perfetto, geniale, e sarebbe anche incredibilmente scorrevole se non fosse per il modo in le diverse storie sono connesse, come il frutto della sconvolta e confusa mente di uno schizofrenico che poi, s'intuisce, non sarebbe altro che lo stesso lettore, il sempre distratto ma continuamente indaffarato uomo contemporaneo.In effetti, la mostra delle atrocità non sembrebbe che un titanico sforzo di mettere a nudo le mostruosità nascoste fra le innumerevoli facciate della convenzione sociale ( sarà per questo che lo subito associato alla beat-generation?), un tentativo molto vicino a quello di Bosch, ma con una vena di irrazionalità molto più evidente.
Dated.Best read as suggested by the author himself: incompletely and at random.
J.G. Ballard's The Atrocity Exhibition is a visceral phantasmagoria dismantling and remaking celebrities and politicians and various other strange, estranged, and/or deranged figures, where bodies merge with machines and machines come alive. Often seemingly free associative while actually incredibly controlled: "surgically" precise, the disorienting narratives, which discard conventional plots and so-called character development, are often upsetting or outright revolting. And it's all delivered with a kind of clinical detachment, its relentlessly harrowing satire and absurdism an even bleaker precursor to both Ben Marcus and George Saunders, but not nearly as comic as the latter.
