https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/599782.Lucy_Gayheart
Una coppia perfetta che tutti danno per destinata a convolare a nozze.Lucy, però, sogna una sua carriera musicale e, per perseguirla, decide di trasferirsi a Chicago, dove diventa la pianista che accompagna il baritono Clement Sebastian, del quale s’innamora rapita dal suo talento musicale, nonostante la grande differenza d’età, e nonostante Sebastian sia già sposato.
È quello che si definisce un amore casto, oppure si definisce romantico: questa novella è molto romantica, pura goduria in questo senso.Harry Gordon approda a Chicago per riprendersi Lucy e portarsela dietro al paesello, ma sbaglia i calcoli: la ragazza gli fa una metaforica pernacchia e non rinuncia al suo sogno musicale.
This she poured into her new book which she endowed with a structure that slowly revealed her purpose.The first "book" of Lucy Gayheart is a beautifully written, poignant story of the eponymous teenager who left her small town in Nebraska at the turn of the 20th century to study music in the vibrant center of Midwestern commerce and culture that is Chicago, that City of the Big Shoulders, and there met a sensitive, accomplished and much older man, Clement Sebastian, for whom she developed a boundless fascination.
And it is the reader who now is left bereft.The third "book" is set twenty-five years later and looks back on the earlier events with a new perspective.
In Chicago, she meets a famous opera singer and becomes his rehearsal accompanist for a couple seasons; the experience changes her life.
The opera singer changes young, steadfast Lucy.
It’s a ripple effect, just like how the works of composers, through the art of singers and musicians, can affect audiences.Cather should be commended for – spoiler alert (barely) – not making this a common story about an affair.
In that sense, the sort of ripple effect that Lucy has on others seems arbitrary.Still, Cather is a wonderfully subtle and gifted writer – someone I feel has still not been given her due in literature circles.
It's been literally years since I read a book this amazing.
There are elements of Willa Cather's better-known works here (My Antonia, The Professor's House come to mind) - the reverence of place, the creation of another world that fully draws you in, the characters who are so real that Cather paints their flaws with no excuses.
But none of her other works that I've read (this is number five) even come near this.
In the wired, in-your-face world we live in, how often do you find a book that makes you say, "Wow"?
My all-time favorite novel by Willa Cather, my all-time favorite novelist.Probably not her critical best, but the images will stick with you for many years.
La penúltima novela de una Willa Cather septuagenaria, impregnada con melancolía, tragedia y anhelo. Sabía que una cosa así no podía durar; en unos instantes tendría que recomponerse y volver en sí. Pero al mismo tiempo sabía que duraría para siempre. Lucy Gayheart, una chica vivaz, tenaz y con talento para la música se muda de Nebraska a Chicago para impartir clases de piano; no tiene grandes aspiraciones pero al conocer al barítono Sebastian y ser receptora de una propuesta para ser su acompañ
En el primer libro se narra toda la estancia de Lucy en Chicago, que mezcla entre la alegría del primer amor y el contraste entre las preocupaciones de las diferentes etapas de la vida; a pesar de tener todas las comodidades posibles (fama, dinero, trabajo), Sebastian se sentía vacío en su interior, algo que ni el canto lograba mejorar y Lucy, siendo una chica con menos recursos, encuentra la paz y la felicidad en los pequeños momentos del día a día.El segundo libro te golpea como un carro a alta velocidad, es un estado puro de melancolía y dolor, donde la reflexión no está presente pero sí los recuerdos, los reproches y el anhelo por regresar al pasado; ¿qué pasará si los errores que cometimos no tienen solución?
Willa Cather's short, poignant 1935 novel "Lucy Gayheart" is a story of music and dashed dreams.
Cather loves and beautifully describes in the novel Schubert's wonderful song-cycles "Die Winterreise" and "Die Schone Mullerein".
Both the winter cold and the lovely maiden of Schubert's two cycles are mirrored in the book.
She gears herself to begin life anew but tragedy again intervenes.Cather offers a great deal of description of the snow and the cold in both Chicago and Haverford.
The author's love for music, the human voice and the piano receives eloquently expression in the novel."Lucy Gayheart" is a beautifully wrought book which deserves to be better known.
I thought it showed how many people have lost touch with certain tragic elements of great passion and love, and how they don't even consider that deep emotional conflicts can keep people who love each other apart.
People like that will probably have no tolerance for romances like this one of Cather's, where she builds such intense interior feeling and hope, so much fantasy, so much tenderness, that is devastated and savaged in an instant in a world where people die tragic unexpected deaths, and love is lost, and the living are left with the ruins.
Willa Cather was an American treasure. What a great writer and story teller. This is another classic.
Très beau roman et la découverte (pour moi) d'une auteur !
She's good, this Cather. This one focuses on love and tragedy and how human lives impact one another in unforeseeable ways. She's got a sedate style that makes a lot of other stuff seem silly and romantic, but doesn't take the mystery of personality out of her characters. I hear that the University of Nebraska has a Willa Cather dorm room or something. I imagine she's underrated and underread everywhere but there.
Beautifully and simply written, this was a compulsively readable tragic story.
Historical FictionWilla Cather is an author whose books always end with me feeling grateful for having had the insightful, lovely experience of reading her.
Beautiful and haunting.
*2.5 stars*This book was SO boring! I was going to give it 1 star, but the ending saved the book a little. I absolutely loved the ending of the book.
But when they do mention her name it is with a gentle glow in the face or the voice, a confidential glance which says: ‘Yes, you too, remember?’ They still see her as a slight figure always in motion; dancing or skating, or walking swiftly with intense direction, like a bird flying home.”As she did with The Song of the Lark, here Cather considers the incompatibility of those wanting to dedicate themselves to the arts (in this case music) and the confining nature of small town Nebraskan life.
At eighteen Lucy leaves her small town for Chicago to study music.
when I travel, I like to have lightweight, and now, I know, burnable books.
Lucy is an artist, growing up in small town on the prairie.
She falls in love with Sebastien, the singer, but it is not as trite as you think.
The dirty streets, as she crossed the town through sleet and snow, were like narrow rivers, shut in by grey cliffs where the light was always changing, and she herself was a twig or a leaf swept along on the current.” (chapter 11)“The sharp air that blew off the water brought up all the fire of life in her; it was like drinking fire.
Interesting subject matter to be sure.Lucy Gayheart is the beautiful, musically talented and carefree daughter of a German watch repairman raised in the small town of Haverford, Nebraska.
Clement Sebastian is nearing fifty, unhappily married and knows his youth is forever and irrevocably gone.
Surely a man couldn’t congratulate himself upon a career which had led to such results.”Ah, but then Lucy comes into his life and everything changes for both Lucy and Clement Sebastian.Through her storytelling Cather invites the reader to explore the complexities of relationships and living in this world.
So it is with Lucy Gayheart.
A friend who is a college English professor seemed a bit dismayed that I was reading "Lucy Gayheart" so early in my exploration of Willa Cather.
"Lucy Gayheart" is the main character of the book, a lovely and naive girl who grows up in a small prairie town.
Without giving too much of the plot away, it's safe to say that Lucy's love does not meet with a happy ending.
Book One of the novel tells Lucy's story from her viewpoint; she's portrayed as a happy, innocent, sweet prairie maiden chasing her dream in the big city.
Lucy Gayheart, the book's title character, is eighteen and headed to Chicago to study music.
Lucy Gayheart is written in that elegant and clear style of Cather's with the descriptions of the Nebraska plains she's well known for.
Just as in her book The Song of the Lark, we have a small town Nebraska girl leaving for a big city to study music.
Cather writes on familiar themes: small town versus big city, values versus culture, etc.
It's impossible for me to read Cather and not grow a little nostalgic.
I was intrigued by Kate Walbert's recommendation in the Wall Street Journal of this little-known Willa Cather novel and so ordered it with the intention of reading it when I could.
Its relatively short length, roughly the same as The Great Gatsby, whose author was a contemporary of Cather's, is not indicative of the powerful story contained within its pages.
Like Gatsby, the depiction of life's turns and seeming injustices hit me squarely.
It is not a novel I will likely forget and will certainly re-read, if providence does not intervene.
My Antonia and Song of the Lark are bigger books in scope and pages, but this one has my heart.
I've read the book at least five times in boards or in paper and given several copies to dear friends as a perfect introduction to Miss Cather.
One theme is "Youth and the Bright Medusa," which of course is the title of a book of Cather's short stories that includes the famous "Paul's Case." This book has a similar start to that of Song of the Lark : a small-town girl with talent and ardor goes from the plains to Chicago to follow her dream of being a musician.
This is Willa Cather at her best, in miniature.
The story of Lucy Gayheart, a young woman who escapes from Nebraska to Chicago, and the tragedies that follow.
It ends with a haunting epilogue that made me forgive (view spoiler)[Cather for drowning all her characters for plot resolution (hide spoiler)].
Here's a sample:In little towns, lives roll along so close to one another; loves and hates beat about, their wings almost touching.
Out in the world the escapes are not so narrow.
I fell in love with Cather when I read "Neighbor Rosicky" in college, and her short story instantly caused homesickness for my little town of the windswept prairie of Colorado.
The story became a classroom favorite when I taught language arts and it popped up in my text books.
I had forgotten how much I loved her style, and I was swept back to the days of my youth, to the folks that came in and out of my family market, and to the kinds of novels I used to curl up to on a winter's day and mull over.
(The description on this page doesn't do it justice.) It's like a short cousin to Cather's great work The Song of the Lark; this time, Lucy admires greatness in art but has no such ambition for herself and is content to be reasonably good at playing the piano.
And as always, the characters are well-drawn and the descriptions are vivid.
So many times for so many characters in Lucy's world, you may be left saying, "If only things had been just a little different..."
Haunting story. I finished the book several days ago, but I'm still thinking of Lucy and Sebastian. Cather wrote with a precise tenderness, a sad looking back. I'm making my way through the Cather catalog; four of her works down, more than a dozen to go.
I've read most of Willa Cather's books. She's certainly not a "modern" author since she died a year after I was born (1947), but I've always been drawn in by her simple tales of an average person who is caught up in Life's circumstances. I've never been disappointed by one of her books.
This was recommended to me by one of my favorite library patrons. It is, I'm fairly certain, the saddest book I've ever read. It is also absolutely beautiful, and shocking. And refreshingly concise.
Willa Cather has been criticized as misogynist and hostile toward women, and maybe I'd have to do a thorough, more critical reread of My Antonia, O Pioneers, The Professor's House, and One Of Ours, but I think the reason I've never considered the writer herself a misogynist is because I'm reading her writing through a 21st century lens and recognizing the treatment of her female characters by the male characters as misogynistic, but not because the author thinks the behavior is okay.
I think Willa Cather's writing when considered from a 21st century perspective ends up getting away entirely from how it might have been perceived and for what it might have been lauded in the early 20th century, and instead can be lauded for what kind of contrast it can present in the behavior of her male characters.
Because it seemed to me that reading them helped me work toward an improved command of the language, I've made it through books I would have cast aside almost immediately had they been written in English or some other language I know well.This past weekend, though, I could take no more (not least because it seemed like I had to look up every second word) of the annoying short novel by Ludmila Ulitskaya I was reading and set it aside for some needed relief in the form of Willa Cather.I thought I'd read Lucy Gayheart before, but it turned out I hadn't.
