https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1879933.Design_for_Living
A famous title resulting not from the play but from the wonderful Lubitsch movie (sc Ben Hecht, who used 2 lines by Coward), it's a provocative work, though not particularly funny.
Still, writ for himself and the Lunts, and first performed in 1933, give Coward credit for tackling bisexuality-plus, which ev'one either let pass or chose blinkeredness.
Or Bloody Marys.The play ends with the threesome laughing uproariously.
Today, knowing what we do about Noel and the Lunts, I submit that the laughter is all about their personal and successful facades.
The rebellious attitudes of the three main characters and their jabs at the stuffy social order and its conventional morality made the transition well from stage to screen.Design for Living takes place first in Paris and then in London, during which time the play's free-spirited artists' muse, Gilda, becomes increasingly more stiflingly conventional.Gilda is the inspiration of two men who adore her: Leo, a struggling playwright who is finally finding success, and Otto, a painter who has yet to achieve recognition.
In the play she is more a wispy inspiration than an outright pedagogue, as in the film.In Act One, Gilda is living in sin with Leo, much to the chagrin of Otto.
At one point, the female lead in this love triangle asks one of her male counterparts, “haven’t you got any shame at all?” To which he replies, “just about as much as you have.” To wit: none.
A fourth character who has conventionally married the female lead is made to be an unwitting comic cuckold once they go whole-hog and decide to live as a triangle; that strawman character is actually named Ernest Friedman, perhaps the most portentous name one could think of once you know what Coward is up to.
The actual facts are so simple. I love you. You love me. You love Otto. I love Otto. Otto loves you. Otto loves me. There now! Start to unravel from there.  Noël Coward’s Design for Living opened on Broadway in 1933 because it was too risqué for London’s West End. Even today, you probably wouldn’t find it on broadcast television before 10 o’clock. Painter Otto Sylvus and playwright Leo Mercuré were fast friends and destitute unknowns in Paris’ Latin Quarter when they both met and later fell in
Painter Otto Sylvus and playwright Leo Mercuré were fast friends and destitute unknowns in Paris’ Latin Quarter when they both met and later fell in love with fellow bohemian Gilda.
Eventually, Otto wins Gilda into becoming his lover, but the threesome each love each other whole-heartedly — until the day that Gilda falls into Leo’s arms.Fast-forward two years, and Leo has become a very successful playwright.
Lastly, the fact that Noël Coward himself played the playwright Leo while Alfred Lunt and Joan Fontaine played Otto and Gilda have made folks wonder for decades; I too found myself wondering how much that threesome’s real-life relationship made it into the play.
Not-at-all-bizarre love triangle. I guess this was pretty shocking when it premiered in 1932, though. I've always loved stories of privileged people being ridiculous.I listened to the L.A. Theatre Works full-cast recording. Well written, well acted, slightly marred by the fact that Claire Forlani pronounces c's and k's as g's for some reason. Also she pronounces t's as d's. Once I noticed I gouldn't stop nodicing it.I'll have to check out the movie version.
This play's light and fun tone is weighed down by Gilda's speeches delivered in a flat tone by Claire Forlani so that they come off as being read and it's near impossible to see how she could possibly be so enchanting to all the males in the play.
The interplay between Hamish Linklater as Leo and Douglas Weston as Otto is much more believably enchanting and while much is made of the play's hints at bisexuality in the menage, this production either cuts the most suggestive lines (a strange choice for modern times) or its less apparent than suggested by on-stage non-verbals.
Noel Coward uses his wit again to present us the love life of three pretentious artists who should have known the solution for their troubles much sooner.The play was published in 1932 and it's definitely waaay ahead of its time, portraying a polyamourous relationship in a modern society, even though sometimes it still shows some old-fashioned traits about the way society sees woman and what they must be in order to be "respectful".
I kind of see a few of Oscar Wilde's vibe in Coward's work, due to its wittiness and sense of humor.
If you're into that, you will definitely enjoy his works.
Scandalous in England: some shouting, lots of sophisticated lines, sort of raunchy, not the stereotypical ending or middle, enjoyable, bohemian, strangely happy ever after.
The characters’ unconventional sexual mores don’t seem to make them happy; they think free love will liberate them but it mostly seems to lead to discontentment and anguish.The two men in the play’s poly-triad – painter Otto and playwright Leo – are not very distinctly characterized, but the woman, Gilda, is an enormously powerful role.
Granted, Design for Living ends more happily than Jules and Jim – in the last act, Leo, Otto, and Gilda’s free-spirited ways are contrasted with the stuffiness of conventional society, and the play finally starts to feel like a comedy.
"Ok so that's my original statement after having read the whole thing.
It made me wish i remembered how to fold a paper bag over the book to give it a book cover.
At any rate, the play made me laugh at the witty dialogue and i find the idea of the formation of a poly relationship fascinating and thus far haven't read much literature about it (one of the reasons why i'm taking this course this semester, actually), so there's that enlightenment going for it.
But overall, i feel "meh".
Noel Coward's witty dialogue and lovably amoral characters sparkle as per usual, but if he really wanted to pursue the themes he briefly touches upon with Otto's "It's none of their business" monologue with any sort of seriousness, I don't know that he succeeded all that well.
Given that Coward was sharper as an infant than I'll ever be, I'll give him the benefit of the doubt on this one and assume that his ambitions were to make exactly what he made: a raucous, silly comedy that just so happens to deal with pansexual polyamorism.
What's to complain about!?
2.5 stars Noël Coward's risqué comedy about a bisexual ménage à trois is dated, and surely doesn't come off as funny as if viewed on stage.
There are some clever one-liners in this light comedy, but Coward doesn't attempt to make any larger statements about the structure of relationships or the fluidity of romantic love.
The play doesn't challenge social norms as much as it flaunts a fantasy scenario in which these social norms don't even exist, a clever way to be "risqué" without directly grappling with the issues being satirized.
Ernst Lubitsch's pre-Code film adaptation--which pretty much shares a title with Coward's play and nothing more--is far more memorable.
I was surprised to discover that, despite its age, "Design for Living" is astonishingly contemporary in terms of its themes, and must have been quite shocking for its time (early 1930s). In particular, while relationship stories are nothing new, that this play tackles the feelings and complexities of a three- or even four-way relationship, along with aspects of love that are not gender-specific, was not something I suspected. It also features a strong female role and it quite humorous as well. This could be a fun play to direct.
An uninhibited account of a pansexual love triangle. Brutal at times, but mostly amusing, Coward celebrates (or parodies?) money, success and emotional & sexual greed.I have to admit I may have fallen in love with this because of the cast when I first saw it on Broadway: Alan Cumming, Jennifer Ehle and Dominic West.Definitely an entertaining read.
A fantastically fun play. it is partly predictable, but it is a hell of a lot of fun to watch these characters discover happiness. I wont say too much (I don't want to oversell it because it is a small delicate play): just read it.
Didn't really resonate with me and I found most of the characters annoying rather than endearing. Maybe if I saw it on stage I could appreciate more Coward's witty dialogues.
I kind of wish I had read this at a time (either in world history or my life) when it would have scandalized me.
Not the best coward. Okay though.
Wonderful
