https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/745236.The_Copernican_Revolution
Probably a 4.5, made up of a 5 when I first read it (almost 40 years ago) and a 4 when I reread it much more recently.
I don't think the book changed, but there is evidence that I did.Kuhn is one of the thinkers of the History and Philosophy of Science that has written very famous books in both branches of that discipline.
This is his contribution to the historical branch, while The Structure of Scientific Revolutions is his very influential (and thus also controversial) contribution to the philosophical branch.This is a book definitely worth reading from the "history of ideas" shelf of your mental library..
Whereas The Structure of Scientific Revolutions is a book of bold claims about the very nature of science itself, The Copernican Revolution is a much humbler effort-- the account of one revolution, and how it came to pass, and how the ideas of Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, Kepler, Galileo, and Newton all intersected in early modern Europe. While his follow-up to The Copernican Revolution attempted to rephrase philosophical terms, this is a more of a straightforward piece of scientific nonfiction. Great storytelling, great history, interesting analysis of the role metaphor took (and continues to take) in the scientific endeavor.
While I'm not a scientist myself - a pretty intense aversion to math when I was in high school turned me away from that - I absolutely love science and think it's fascinating, so anytime I come across a history of science book I always feel like I'm in a for a bit of a treat.
Kuhn is probably most famous for The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, a book I may have to go back and look at again.
Kuhn takes a look at the Copernican Revolution and asks two main questions: why did it take so long to occur?
This book is one of the most inspiring -- and most humbling -- books that I've read in quite some time.I've been interested in astronomy since I was a kid, so the story of Copernicus and Kepler is one I thought I knew.
The inconsistency wasn't noticed because mathematical astronomy at the time was a very narrow technical field, whose practitioners weren't interested in pushing on physics and who in turn escaped notice from the mainstream of natural philosophy.Kuhn also points out something else that should be better known: the Church condemned heliocentrism very late.
Copernicus's book is published in 1546.
I'm not sure I understood any of the science and math but this book was fabulous in laying out the intellectual history of the time. I really loved reading those sections.
Copernicus ile başlayan Newton'la sonuçlanan ve inançtan bilime, felsefeden politikaya bir çok disiplini etkileyen, insanlığı bugüne taşıyan muazzam bir devrimi okudum. . .
The most riveting intellectual history I have read since Lovejoy's "Great Chain of Being," this is a book replete with historical empathy, copious, starkly beautiful diagrams, and a keen sense of the ironies of history.
Any layman who believes science is mostly a collection of facts must read this in order to have a sense of a type of process that science is truly about.Importantly, the Copernican (sun-centered) astronomy, says Kuhn, resulted in no obvious overall simplification over the Ptolemaic system (with epicycles, which are moving circles within orbits and had been adopted along with other unrealities in order to describe the apparent motions of the heavens around the earth).
Copernicus proved that an abrupt disruption in this kind of evolutionary procession, by moving the center of the universe from earth to sun rather than adding more epicycles, could result in an equally acceptable astronomy.
The Copernican Revolution offers a much more accessible account of a scientific revolution unfolding through the centuries.The common-sense, earth-centered Ptolemaic universe inherited by Copernicus was more than just a mental model of how the world was structured in a physical sense.
In turn, that motion set the other planetary spheres in motion above the solid, immobile Earth.But those perfect circular orbits were not what Ptolemy and many other astronomers through the centuries actually observed.
There was a "new neatness and coherence in the sun-centered astronomy of Copernicus." (Page 171.)It took the work of other astronomers to fully flesh out the Copernican revolution.
The Copernican Revolution, though not as widely known as The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, and thus not as often recommended to students or science enthusiasts, is a masterpiece.
I give it such high praise because it does not simply explain the role of said revolution in the historical context of astronomy and physics, but attempts to give its readers a deeper understanding of the meaning of scientific breakthroughs.
While doing that, the author tries to map the entire age he writes about, and it this book begins to transcend his role as philosopher and historian of science, in order to become a humanist.
Having read the Structure of Scientific Revolutions many years ago I have carried around a general idea of Kuhn's ideas.
It seemed unnecessary to go back and read the Copernican Revolution.
To really understand the complexity of Kuhn's ideas this book is a must.
What I found most interesting was his discussion of the Aristotelian world view and how Copernicus' 'technical' clarification of the motions of planets undermined that whole world view.
In the end I felt that I had a clearer view of just how much my experience of the world is embedded in is embedded in a world view that is undergoing change.
Wow. One of those books where you are left in total awe that someone can comprehend, analyze, and synthesize so much. Kuhn superbly breaks down the scientific revolution that facilitated our progress from ancient to modern thought. It isn't long (<300 pages), but it is dense. Not overly technical, but deep. Every word counts. It took months to get through, and I would only recommend it if you love history of science and philosophy. But if you do, this is a must read.
Geometry, common sense and observations to understand astronomy.
This is a fantastic book, which is less than three-hundred pages in length. It is concise, clear and yet comprehensive and very illuminating. Kuhn sets the stage for the Copernican Revolution by taking you inside the mediaeval mind. You get a chance to see the world somewhat as they saw it, and you can understand why the Copernican view was dismissed as ridiculous by learned and rational people: it conflicted with so much of what they thought they knew.
It feels almost wrong marking this as read-- I read it for school and my teacher used it kind of like a textbook.
Kuhn has subjected me to far too many technicalities of far too many astronomical systems for me to not count it.
all that un-delightful stuff), and the fact that he seems to have a personal vendetta against Copernicus (we get it okay Kuhn?
Copernicus' system wasn't perfect, Kepler and people made it more functional OKAY WE GET IT)-- I reluctantly have to say Kuhn does a pretty decent job.
This is a great work of history, which succeeds both in treating its subject matter and shedding light on larger questions about humanity and philosophy.At the beginning of the book, the Copernican Revolution is nowhere close to happening, and it feels like it's never going to happen.
Then you get a sense that the Copernican Revolution is around the corner, and this is where the tension really builds.
Then, the Copernican Revolution happens!
Then it keeps happening for a bit longer than you'd expect, before finally coming to a resolution.
Kuhn takes an exhaustive approach to understanding the historical underpinnings of Copernicus' insight and work, as well as the intellectual fallout that resulted.
Surely "Revolution" is a case study for Kuhn's later work (Structure), which I have yet to read.
Kuhn was slightly disappointing in some of his conclusions (particularly his final section on 'The New Fabric of Thought', which was probably too far-reaching and not characteristic of the rest of the book at all), but his models on scientific revolutions and scientific belief give excellent structure for discussion and reflection.
All in all, "Revolution" is a wonderful work for anyone who has any sort of interest in astronomy.
This is the case study that preceded, and was a primary inspiration for, Kuhn's celebrated Structure of Scientific Revolutions.
It offers a technically detailed and elegantly written account of the Copernican revolution and its far-reaching impact on astronomy and physics.
No one is better than Kuhn at taking you inside the worldview of natural scientists from previous historical eras.
At the same time, he details the specific problems and anomalies that gradually propelled the movement away from that model and toward the Copernican/Newtonian view that eventually came to replace it.
Somewhat interestingIf I'm not mistaken, Kuhn wrote this before his Strucures of Scientific Revolution, and it sort of feels like a case study on the way to that work.
So having read Structures, it feels less enlightening from a history of science point of view than it might've.But he spends way more time on pre-Copernican celestial mechanics than I'd ever seen in any other context.
In fact, he retained many of the flaws in the Ptolemaic system: dependence on magical spheres, circles and epicycles, not to mention assuming that all orbital planes must intersect the earth's center.So, enjoyable, interesting but not as enlightening as I'd expected.
Meh. Had to read this one for class.
You can get the gist of the book from the final chapter/epilogue.
Copernicus didn't have everything figured out, nor was the "revolution" he incited so earth shattering.
You see that the break from centuries-old Aristotelian scientific thought evolved quite naturally and slowly (almost imperceptibly).
This is more of a study on the development of new movements/paradigm shifts in scientific thought with Copernicus used as the example.
Revolutions like this aren't so much thunderous waves appearing from nowhere as they are the accumulation of many ripples over a substantial period of time.
This book tries to place the "Copernican Revolution" in its proper historical and cultural context.
It's very broad, covering such topics as astronomy, religion, and general culture - basically any aspect of life that had an interest in determining whether the earth circled the sun or vice versa.It's extremely well-written, albeit somewhat dry and academic in spots.
He does a great job of explaining the math and physics necessary in general terms.Given the broad focus of this book, there were parts of it that I found less interesting than others and I suspect this would be true for most people.

Have you ever wanted to know precisely how many crystalline spheres make up the universe?
What about epicycles?
Can't hardly leave the house without a few epicycles, right?Then, friend, have I got the book for you!This is Kuhn before Kuhn but it's awfully similar.
He argues that Copernicus did not start the revolution and the revolution did not really start with Copernicus.
Even at this basic level, there's the chance some readers will get lost.
But it's real revisionism of a basic historical lesson we all "knew" reminding us again to question our place in the universe.
This was really enjoyable! I was glad to see so many direct quotes from De Revolutionibus, as well as Aristotle and other sources. I appreciate that it a book with this sort of topic. I was somewhat surprised that Aristarchus of Samos was not mentioned? The text did a really good job of explaining the flaws with the elliptical system and set a good stage for the chasm that existed between current thought and what Copernicus was able to develop. Still wondering about Aristachus and other early thinkers though... anyhow, it was still a wonderful read.
This book is by far the most accessible and enlightening book I have ever read on this subject. It is hard to pin this book down on one topic though. It is an introduction to astronomy (ancient and modern), it is a story about the building and destruction of world views, it is an informative account of the scientific revolution and its implications for mankind. And to top it off: it is written in a very clear and concise style.Read 265 pages and you're fully informed. Not much else to say about it.
For me, this was an important follow-up to The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. This book gives perspective to the events surrounding one of the most important shifts of thought in Western history. This change in thinking was far more important and went far deeper into our culture than we are ever led to understand in school textbooks. I recommend this for any student of the history of science.
Read this years ago and neglected to add it until now. Slipped my mind I guess. The Copernican Revolution is fascinating. The type of big change that begs the question of what kinds of big changes will crop of in the future. This line of inquiry gets the wheels spinning in interesting and exciting ways.
Not light reading, but aimed at popular audiences. If you want to brush up on the science you should have learned in college, this is a good way to do it. Kuhn shows you what was so revolutionary in the hypothesis that the earth is not the center of the cosmos.
This book is an exploration of the effect of the Copernican organization of the solar system on science and culture. It is an interesting book by the author of the Structure of Scientific Revolutions and deals with many of the same themes and concerns.
Recommended on Skeptically Speaking show #90 on December 17, 2010. http://skepticallyspeaking.ca/episode...
