https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22581.The_Collected_Stories_of_Philip_K_Dick_2
We Can Remember it for You Wholesale, the second volume of Philip K.
The majority of these tales—the remarkable exception being the title story, written in 1965—were composed between August of ‘52 and April of ‘53, whereas the previous volume, The Short Happy Life of the Brown Oxford, contained work composed primarily in ‘51 (when Dick sold his first story) until the early months of ‘52.
Dick was now a full time writer, striving—with limited success—to make a living, and he was obviously doing his best to write stories he could easily sell.
The best stories in Brown Oxford are wilder, more characteristically Dickian, but Wholesale gives us a more polished Philip K.
4,5/5Bir PKD fanı olarak tarafsız puan vermek gerçekten çok zor benim için :).
Hele ki piyasadaki 3 filmine hayat vermiş 3 öyküsünü okumak ayrı bir zevk verdi(Ki bunlardan sadece kitabın isminde olan Kader Ajanları'nın öyküsünü okuyacağımı bildiğimden, diğer iksi ile karşılaşmak baya süpriz oldu.
Açıkçası kalan 3 kitapta hangi öyküleri olacak diye düşünüyorum; ağır topları buraya koymuşlar :P )Bu arada bahsettiğim öykülerKader Ajanları-The Adjustment Bureau(2011)İkinci Tür-Screamers(1995)Sahtekar-Impostor(2001)Bunlar harici tabiki de sevdiklerim oldu;James P.
Crow, Kozmik Avcılar hatırlayabildiklerim.
Hikayelerinde eşi eve döndüğünde hep evde olan ve ev işleri yapan kadın klişesi var.
Bu konuyu irdelemek isterim benim gibi düşüneneler var mı diye(google gel bakalım).
4.0 stars. A superb collection of Dick stories. Full review following re-read.
Pretend for instance that everyone thinks I'm just some guy on Goodreads who likes having all his book/reading information/conversations recorded and observed by a giant corporation that kills bookstores in the real world.
And maybe he's in the middle of writing a review about short stories by this sci-fi writer Philip K Dick.
So, you're reading along after he (the average guy you think I am) is done writing it, but meanwhile encoded within these 26 letters he's re-arranged for your temporary diversion is a cipher from Ganymede.
He thinks he's just an ordinary guy on Goodreads and not some character in a Philip K Dick story.
Daha 50'li yıllarda bilimkurgunun hemen her türlü kalıbını yaratan/kullanan müthiş dehadan bahsediyoruz burada. K. Dick. Onun yazdığı ne varsa zaten muhteşem.Yine bu kitaptaki birçok öykü de günümüzdeki sayısız bk eserinin çıkış noktası, esin kaynağı. Hal böyle olunca yüzde minik müstehzi bir gülümseme bâki kalıyor okuma sürecinde. 60 yıldan yaşlı olan bu öykülerin hepsi hâlâ güncel ve içinde yaşadığımız dünyaya birebir uyarlanabiliyor. Hepsi. O yüzden PKD ölümsüzdür, PKD peygamberdir.Kalan üç cilt de umarım tez zamanda -ve biraz daha özenli bir editörlük çalışmasıyla- yayınlanır. Ha bir de, ilk kitapta olduğu gibi, yine, birinci hamur kâğıt faciası var.
Bu hikayeleri okurken insan mest oluyor. Devamını beklemekteyiz.
Önsözde belirtildiği gibi bir macera-aksiyon ya da uzay operası değil.
Evet, nükleer savaş, gelişmiş robot/silah sistemleri, parçalanmış gerçeklik, yapay zeka, zaman yolculuğu ve paradokslar gibi birçok konu işleniyor.
(Ne kadar tanıdık değil mi?) İnsanı soğuk bir makineden ayıran şeyler nedir?
Merhamet, sevgi, vicdan, empati gibi değerleri sorgulayan, sıradan insanın kahramanlaştığı öyküler okuyorsunuz.İlgimi çeken birkaç öyküden bahsedeyim.
Screamers (1995) filmine konu olan İkinci Tür öyküsü, bahsettiğim “Kim insandır?” Sorusuna cevap arayan uzun bir öykü.
Ayrıca Ziyaretçiler adlı öyküde de Avatar’daki gibi mavi derili bir tür göreceksiniz.
Çehovvari Küçük Kasaba öyküsü de çok ilginçti.
Hayat karşısında yenik düşmüş küçük insanın, Walter White gibi ezilenden ezene dönüşümünü anlatıyor.
I think I will read a novel next before delving into more short stories (and, if I ever do read more short stories, hopefully I'll get a later collection).I'm told short stories are different from novels in that the characters in a short story do not matter, it's more the idea.
When reading these I felt a lof of them were hollow.But I did get some cool ideas from these, and some were fun to read.Here's my favorite quote, from Of Withered Apples."Along the edge of the field was a grove of ancient trees.
She coughed and hurried on, stepping over the rocks and clods of earth, trembling with fear and anticipation.She circled around the grove of trees, almost to the edge of the ridge.
I read this after watching Total Recall for the umpteenth time and realizing that I hadn't ever actually read the short story upon which it was based, written by one of my favorite authors.
Philip K.
Dick is a master of messing with your head in a story.
I have to say, after finishing the story, my first thoughts were, "Ha!
That was awesome." And it was.
All I can say about it is, don't expect it to be long, don't expect it to take the same direction as Total Recall, just take it as it comes.
Its a great finish.
A collection of early stories from Philip K Dick,written between 1952 and 1955.
A lot of the stories are not as polished as some of his later work,and you can often see the twist or big reveal a mile away.However the paranoiac feel that's typical of his style is still very much in evidence.
There's some nice detours into fantasy and horror territory,with a Present for Pat being a standout.
Along the more traditional SF stories,We can remember it for you wholesale,Imposter ,Human Is and Progeny are well worth reading.If you enjoyed this you might enjoy the short stories of Ray bradbury.
First foray into PKD. The man was a lousy writer, and while he could imagine great futures, he couldn't foresee a time with no cigarettes. But man, are his ideas something else. Ignore the writing and enjoy this exploration of humanity.
At Dickheads Podcast we have reviewed a couple of the stories in this collection and compared them to how they have been adapted. We Can Remember it wholesale/ Totall Recall:https://soundcloud.com/dickheadspodca...Adjustment Team:https://soundcloud.com/dickheadspodca...Human Is:https://soundcloud.com/dickheadspodca...Imposter:https://soundcloud.com/dickheadspodca...The Impossible Planet:https://soundcloud.com/dickheadspodca...
***** 5 Stars Oh where do I begin By far one of the best collection of sci-fi stories I’ve ever redPKD instantly transports you to a distant future to a planet light years away and then tells a story that makes your jaw drop in aweI personally liked and loved two stories, the COSMIC POACHERS and IMPOSSIBLE PLANETCertainly recommend for sci-fi lovers
Some great stuff in this one. Chief among the stories I recall is 'Impostor'.
Çok etkileyici bilim kurgu hikayeleri. Sanırım Amerikalı B&K yazarlarının çoğu Dick'in astronot giysisinin cebinden çıkmış :-)
Not as good as Total Recall - the one with Arnie.
Many other stories in this volume, which contains his short fiction from the years 1952-3, have themes revolving around what it means to be human, and frequently, they are set in Dick's characteristic ash-ridden, slag-encrusted, war-scarred radioactive Earth, typically populated by the remnants of humanity driven underground.
Another story, "Survey Team," has Earth's last survivors desperately exploring Mars as the only viable home-world alternative, only to find that (view spoiler)[humans originally emigrated from Mars, aftering ruining that world first (hide spoiler)].
He shrugs, tossing it away, and leaves (hide spoiler)].Dick has some fascinating insights on humanity and war.
(They further play off the movie’s popularity by making the guy on the cover look a lot like Schwarzenegger, whereas Quail in the story isn’t described as being very muscular.)Many of the other stories are also quite worthwhile, such as "Jon’s World", which takes place in the same fictional universe as "Second Variety", a rare re-use of a setting by Dick.
When the god asks if Blake wants him to restore his wife and friend his response is "Gosh, I sure would appreciate it!" Despite all this, it’s a decent story—just don’t take it too seriously.Note that several of the stories in the collection are fantasy, not science fiction.
It was an absolute pleasure to take the class on a ride through the world of thought control and mind manipulation, using We Can Remember it for you Wholesale as our mentor text.
This story is set in a future where any thoughts and memories are possible, for a price.
Our protagonist, Quail, has a dream to travel to Mars.
Because Quail already has Mars memories in his brain.
And next term, they get to apply their newly developed skills by choosing their own mentor text for an independent research project.
Prequel to the novel "The Crack In Space".4/5 We Can Remember It for You Wholesale: Similar to the game "To the Moon".3/5 Jon’s World: Child sees visions of alternate-verse that time-travelling Dad later ends up in.
Welp.3/5 Martians Come in Clouds: Possibly takes place in the novel "The World Jones Made"?
Wtf?4/5 Human Is: Woman loves cruel ex-husband's otherwise-decent killer and impersonator.4/5 Adjustment Team: Sleepy DBA dog does not lock table before data migration.4/5 The Impossible Planet: We dunno where is Earth.
Destroy Earth.
3. Find out ancient humans fled from destroyed Mars to Earth.

A collection of 27 sf and fantasy stories that reminded me of the Twilight Zone tv series. Most of the stories had some moral message or last-minute plot twist that was entertaining. Like Twilight Zone some of the stories were rubbish, most were pretty good, and a few were brilliant. Overall, worth a read if you aren't offended by bossy men demanding their dinner from housewives after their commute from Ganymede.
A compilation of short science fiction stories written by Philip K. Dick in his unique style. A wide variety of plots are portrayed including the story that the movie Total Recall was based on. Old time science fiction not cluttered by sex or profanity so suitable for mature youth as well as adults.
Great collection of stories, and the final story The Survey Team was by far my favorite.
I like it, although it must be said that it is way goofier than the movie.Jon's World - 2 stars - There's an interesting bit of time travel here, but the whole story ends up being too long, and since most of Dick's twists are very predictable, it just makes the story drag.The Cosmic Poachers - 3 stars - Another solid, humorous story.Progeny - 4 stars - Dick's paranoia starts to shine through.
Having never read any Philip K. Dick, but long having an interest, I’ve decided to read through all his works in chronological order as best as I can (for various reasons, I won’t be able to read his first novel, Gather Yourselves Together, until July). I want to give you my impressions of his works as a first-timer and observe the evolution of his writing.Entry #3 – The Collected Stories of Philip K. Dick, Volume 2: We Can Remember it for You Wholesale. (1953-1954) Right off the bat, I have to
All the stories in this volume are from 1952-1953, except for “We Can Remember it For You Wholesale”, written nearly a decade later, which was included to capitalize off the release of Total Recall.
(“The Trouble with Bubbles”, “Impostor”, “Human Is”, “Small Town” “Survey Team”) Dick seems to be straining a bit, and no wonder considering how many stories he wrote and published in the early 50s.
As in the first volume, I also greatly enjoyed the trippy little fantasy stories like “Beyond the Door”, “The Cookie Lady”, “Of Withered Apples”, and “Small Town”, something I had never expected from Dick when I started on this endeavor.
Review to follow. Overall a decent collection, but I have HUGE issues with "The Pre-persons" which I will elaborate either in a review or a blog post (which I'll link here).
Dick is in good form in this second collection of his short stories, dating from the early 1950s.
Dick is beginning to get a better handle on his prose in this collection, though still somewhat rough around the edges.
The themes that Dick would become so well known for are present here as well.
I suppose the biggest knock against these stories is that they do not generally feature memorable or interesting characters.
I want to love his work because he has brilliant ideas but in all the novels I've read he creates these fantastic worlds and then just briefly tells you about them but won't let you go out and play in them.
As an added bonus there is a section in the back that has notes about each story and some have a short paragraph by Dick with his thoughts reading the stories twenty-some years later.
Definitely back on the love side with P.K. Dick now, I think I'll have to stick with his shorts though.
Dick the greatest science fiction mind on any planet.
Since his untimely death in 1982, interest in Dick's works has continued to mount and his reputation has been further enhanced by a growing body of critical attention.
Dick Award is now given annually to a distinguished work of science fiction, and the Philip K.
Dick Society is devoted to the study and promulgation of his works.This collection includes all of the writer's earliest short and medium-length fiction (including some previously unpublished stories) covering the years 1952-1955.
Dick is awe inspiring." -- The Washington Post"More than anyone else in the field, Mr. Dick really puts you inside people's minds." -- Wall Street Journal
