https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21423525-us
Their son Albie is a few weeks away from leaving for college and she “wants to feel this is the beginning of something new, not the beginning of the end.” For some people a conversation like this would not come as a surprise, there had been flashing red lights for years.
Look to your left, take note, please observe; how terrific it would be to carry that voice with you always, out of the museum and throughout all of life.”When a family dispute has Albie running away from the grand tour Connie goes home, but Douglas decides that this may be the last chance he has to ever make things right with his son.
A major error was pointed out by several GReaders for which I thank them and as a consequence I rewrote the review. I felt that my previous review did not do justice to the book. I was looking forward to us growing old together. Me and you, growing old and dying together.  Douglas, who in their right mind would look forward to that? Now that is indeed a strong statement and how would you, as a spouse/partner, relate to that when your fifty-four year old husband, healthy, an academic and certain
Certain passages were indeed quite sad but I ended up laughing for some obscure reason.Just imagine, you are a middle aged man who has always loved his wife from the day he met her but regrettably for him, he did become a trifle complacent as seen in the book but he was totally unaware of this at the time.Their son Albie (also known as the “Egg”).
Certain passages were quite sad but I ended up laughing for some obscure reason.An absolutely wonderful book!
The snobbery arose from the aura left in the wake of Nicholls's previous bestseller, "One Day", which gave the book a miasma of being less than literary, a sop to populism on the prize list.
Interesting -- what about this mainstream book destined for the bestseller list, and likely a movie adaptation, brought it to the attention of the Booker committee?
Nicholls manages, despite the limitations of a single point of view, to give us glimpses into Connie and Albie's perspectives on Douglas -- no one is a villain here and the tragedy of this family arises from misunderstood actions and ineffective communication.
This book is wonderful!It's the story of a marriage in peril, narrated by the husband, Douglas.
When Connie announces to Douglas one night that she feels their marriage has run its course and she may want to leave, Douglas insists that the family stick to a previously planned Grand Tour of Europe where he secretly hopes to win his wife and son back.The story of the trip is interwoven brilliantly with the backstories of Douglas and Connie.
He is carefully stitching the tapestry of a marriage, of three lives.Douglas's narration is humorous, self-deprecating and occasionally heartbreaking.
As any parent knows, there’s no list a teenager can’t scramble.Like Emma Straub’s “The Vacationers,” which came out earlier this year, “Us” is the story of a fractured family going on a trip: “the last summer holiday we’ll have together.” Despite her divorce plans, Douglas’s wife imagines a Grand Tour to prepare their college-bound son for “the adult world, like in the 18th century.” The young man, of course, would rather take the money and go off drinking with his buddies.
Was it the happiest day of our lives? Probably not, if only because the truly happy days tend not to involve so much organisation, are rarely so public or so expensive. The happy ones sneak up, unexpected."
Corrosively for Douglas, it also doubles up as his final bid to win Connie back who, days before the commencement of the tour, shares her long-tended contemplation of pursuing a separate, individual life after Albie’s departure.
In the artistic corridors of Paris, on the cycling escapades of Munich, amidst the boisterous camaraderie of Amsterdam, over the splendorous rides of Venice and in the infectious effervescence of Madrid, he attempts to envelop his son in the friendship blanket by one hand while not losing grip on the love shield hoisted over his wife by the other.
And then one night, Douglas' life is upended when Connie awakens him."I said I think our marriage has run its course.
Connie still wants to go on the trip, and not reveal their discussions to Albie, and when they return from their travels, she'll make a decision."To contemplate a life without her; I found it inconceivable.
I thought the book went on for far too long and just kept repeating the same themes—Douglas cannot be spontaneous, Connie is frustrated by this, Douglas gets upset with Albie, etc.
This is the first book I have read by this author and it will certainly not be my last.
I loved it so much I ignored a million other things I should have been doing and read it from beginning to end in one day.
The story is of a family breaking up and it should have been sad.
The story is not sentimental and the ending is quite practical.
I found myself feeling sorry for the three people involved as though their story was real.
Definitely a five star read.
They are, as Douglas explains, a “small family, somewhat meagre, and I think we each of us feel sometimes that it is a little too small, and each wish there was someone else there to absorb some of the blows.” Douglas determines that this Grand Tour of Europe is his chance to make his wife fall in love with him all over again and to close the rift with his son.
At the eleventh hour, Douglas realizes this is his chance to be a hero to his wife: he decides to stay on in Europe, find his son and make things right.
3.5 Douglas, a bit of a nerd but so still in love with his wife, I immediately took to his character.
Loved the dry wit in which this story is told and all the talk about art on their travels through Europe.
After being told his wife wants to leave him, she talks him into going on their planned trip with their son albie.
Never took to the character of Connie, thought her selfish though she maintains she still loved Douglas.
A good look though at a marriage where one spouse wants something different than the other.
A dita rotina sufoca a veia artística de Connie, que ao fim de quase um quarto de século de casamento, foi assaltada por um desejo indómito de voar a solo.Afinal, quem era ela fora daquele Nós intemporal?Era uma questão que urgia responder antes que o peso dos anos lhe cortasse as asas ainda por estrear!E foi assim, que num impulso de coragem e determinação, Connie interrompe uma noite de sono de Doug, para a grande revelação!Porém, Doug permanece de coração amarrado à sua bela Connie, e está determinado a lutar pela continuidade da sua relação.Boa sorte, Doug!...Moral da história:Se num relacionamento, um dos envolvidos se vê constrangido a abdicar duma relevante parte de si, o final está latente e eminente!Mais tempo...
As seen on my blog: 2.5 STARSI tried to give love another chance. The love for David Nicholls' books that is. I will admit, I liked  Us  many degrees more than I enjoyed the mess that was  One Day , and even laughed at loud on more than one occasion. But as a whole,  Us  was a self-indulgent, teeth grinder of a book. The main character was a mess, and rightly so, because his wife and son's characters were pretty much the scum of the earth.I have never felt more inclined to throw a book at my wal
He hopes to win his wife back, and finally gain some respect from his son while he's at it.Past: Douglas recounts his unexpected love affair with Connie-starting from before they even met.
When they do meet, there couldn't be less fanfare, and more effort on Douglas's part to convince us that what he and Connie shared up until a certain point was pure, and utter, magic.I was having none of it, and maybe that was Nicholl's intention.
I wanted Connie and Albie to take their self-centered selves into some other book, somewhere else.
Connie loves Douglas in spite of his obsessive nagging and worrying, which is nothing like that of her arty-party London friends.
Douglas tells their story in pieces, following their Grand Tour of Europe while reminiscing about the last 25 years.
Meanwhile, Albie would rather wing it, like Mum.Connie tells Douglas she might want to split up soon, but first, she wants the three of them to do the Grand Tour.
I had always presumed there would be time and now, sitting on the edge of the bed at four a.m., no longer listening out for burglars, it seemed that it might be too late.”It’s interesting to watch Douglas and Albie grow up on their big tour, and I can see why this was longlisted for the 2014 Man Booker Prize.
As the book opens, Connie tells Douglas "I think our marriage has run its course.
Douglas, I think I want to leave you." They have a seventeen year old son named Albie who is heading off to photography school.
Connie feels that once Slbie leaves, there will be a hole in the marriage that can't be filled.Despite Connie's proclamation, the family decides to embark on a European vacation and it is Douglas's hope that he will be able to win Connie back.
Things go from bad to worse on this vacation, and the inherent hostility between Albie and Douglas comes to a head, with Albie disappearing.I just couldn't buy into the story.
US is poignant, convincing and laugh out loud hilarious novel that give us an intimate insight into a 25 year marriage – a marriage that’s run its course.Douglas and Connie Petersen are preparing for the ‘Grand Tour’ across Europe, taking their 17-year-old son, Albie, before leaving home for university.
But they’ve both agreed for Albie sake, they should continue with the ‘Grand Tour’, as planned.US is narrated by Douglas as they journey across Europe, who believes he will win back the heart of his wife and to restore the gap between his son by his meticulously planned trip.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Douglas and Connie have been married for a small eternity.
They’re about to become empty nesters once their son leaves home and Douglas is excited to start a new chapter in their lives.
Connie is excited about starting a new chapter too .
I’m waaaaaay overdue on writing a review for Us and I’m not quite sure why since I quite enjoyed this book.
I love a good ol’ “paint by numbers” type of romance every once in awhile, but I really dig the type of realistic fiction (that’s a thing, right?) written about in this novel.
And I loved Douglas.
Us is a novel about a marriage in crisis. It’s well-paced, humorous and contains many great insights about marital life. Connie, who works in an art gallery, tells her husband, Douglas, a biochemist, she wants to leave him. This happens just before they are about to embark on a grand tour of Europe together. Douglas persuades Connie that they need not cancel their holiday. The narrative alternates between past and present. Nichols is particularly good at dialogue and finding the humour in typical modern day situations. An essentially light and thoroughly enjoyable read.
I loved ONE DAY and this book is equally good. Poignant. Funny. Moving. Surprising. David Nicholls creates fantastic characters, who are flawed and infuriating, but very easy to care about.
-NOI- Non diventerà certo un classico della letteratura mondiale, ma ha il merito di essere un libro onesto, autoironico (in Douglas Petersen sembra di intravedere Nicholls quanto in Harry Rent si intuisce la sagoma di Sarvas).Ho fatto diverse sottolineature, una di esse mi è sembrato fosse una dedica per me:Dal punto di vista evolutivo, emozioni come la paura, il desiderio o la rabbia hanno un senso e una funzione, ma la nostalgia è assolutamente inutile, perché ci fa tendere verso qualcosa che abbiamo perduto per sempre.
A Nicholls replico che la nostalgia che lui definisce assolutamente inutile è la fonte d’energia primaria di ogni romanziere, una fonte non rinnovabile, petrolio, non vento.
See Arthur Miller and Marilyn Monroe.On every page, Douglas bores on about how much he loves Connie and how great things were once upon a time.
And of course it all happens to Douglas, not the perfect Connie.Things do happen to people, just not in the ways described by the author.I've tried several books now and I am bored by the style and the repetition.I only stuck with this book because I wanted to see if he mentioned any of the places that I'd been to in Italy.
His writing is absolutely, brilliantly, very British-ly perfect, so many passages vacillating between comedy and heartbreak, characters trying to communicate and often misunderstood.
The main protagonist Douglas, while a scientist, has an offbeat way of looking at the world with insights that are metaphorically creative and laugh out loud hilarious:‘I was wary because parties, and dinner parties in particular, had always seemed to be a pitiless form of gladiatorial combat, with laurel garlands bestowed to the most witty, successful and attractive, and the corpses of the defeated lying bleeding on the painted floorboards.’Beyond the writing, this is as realistic a portrayal of a family as I’ve read in a while: people who love each other, but sometimes don’t like each other.
If you want to know whether you’ll enjoy this story, read the passages/quotes and that will tell you all you need to know.
Marriage and the Common Case of Unexpressed IdentityThe nerd type of guy can easily fall for a glamorous artistic moody beautiful woman!It's an obviously expected event, cos we can see it as a simple case of physics applied to human relations.A very simple case indeed -- the one that joins protons and electrons to balance the unbalancedThat's what happenned in the Us of Connie and Doug -- individually they were unbalanced, but together they conquered some stability.However...
that long journey around Europe seemed the perfect chance to conquer his precious lady back...Such a noble project would certainly provide the required happy ending!
Mild-mannered biochemist Douglas Petersen hopes to reconnect with his wife and distant teenage son during an elaborate European tour.
This Booker-longlisted follow-up to Nicholls’s bestselling One Day is a charming but unsentimental look at a family in crisis.
The plot may sound terribly clichéd – and at first I indeed feared that that would be the case – but the deft mixture of past and present and Douglas’s endearing first-person narration save the novel from being mundane.I found it to be a very touching picture of a marriage in decline, and of a father’s realization that he needs to change his ways if he is not to lose his son forever.
Plus, he's a teenager, so he's got that not going for him.Everyone annoys each other here, and they all ganged up to annoy me as a reader.Now, Nicholls also wrote One Day, a heartbreaking, interestingly formatted novel about two people who just can't stay apart.
I could give a little leeway to Albie because he was a Teenage Character going through a "Phase" (you know, the stereotypical one where one hates ones parents, although in this case he only really hates Douglas).
Why would Douglas want to keep these kind of poisonous relationships around, is what I actually thought at one point.
Me and you, growing old and dying together.''Douglas, who in their right mind would look forward to that?’”  In a last ditch attempt to save his marriage, Douglas decides to go on with the previous family plans of going on a last vacation with his son and wife, a Grand Tour of European best museums and most picturesque cities.
So Connie is ready to jump ship, and Douglas must look back and find in their past some reason, some motive strong enough to keep her by his side.Beside the detailed account of their personal history, the novel spends a lot of time discussing art, tourism, cuisine, etc.
A journey that begins when outgoing, artistic Connie meets the slightly awkward, conservative Douglas at a party.
Douglas, unaware that their marriage had run out of steam wants to continue with their plans for one last holiday together as a family, a 'grand tour' of the art galleries of Europe.This is another excellent book from David Nicholls.
He is so very good at getting inside the heads of his characters, whether it is the artistic, slightly boho Connie or the somewhat aspergerish Douglas or the emerging young adult Albie trying to forge his own identity.
They decide to still do their month long tour with their 17 year old son, Albie, touring Europe from one corner to another.
Douglas is hoping to rekindle the romance and Connie, frankly, just seems to want to travel with their little family one more time.
Needless to say Douglas and Albie have a troubled relationship and how things unfold create new stresses.
Douglas is Sheldon Cooper, Connie often mocks him and helps wedge some dislike between father and son, and Albie, like most 17 year olds feels he is quite entitled.
Connie has announced she's thinking about divorce, and Doug puts all his hopes in the Petersen family's upcoming "Grand Tour of Europe." Can you see disaster coming?
Maybe that's not a negative in many readers' minds, but it always throws me a bit if I'm distracted from the words, the craftsmanship, and the moment by niggling notions like, "Oh, I could see THAT scene on the big screen" or, "I'll bet they'll cast so and so as Connie.
If you like that sort of breezy, family tragicomedy thing, it appears you've found your book.Comment
★ 2016 AtY Reading Challenge ★: A book with a beautiful cover.This book would be shit if it wasn't for the writing style.
The biggest one was Douglas, the main character.At first I was sad for him and his wife leaving him but then I got mad because he wasn't getting the point.His wife is a 50 years old edition of a manic pixie dream girl.
And his son, being a teenager, is an asshole for pretty much the entire book.I easily predicted major plot twists and even the ending; I really enjoyed the traveling aspect and it made me want to visit places and travel more.In the end it's another meh book but written very well.
