https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95144.In_the_Night_Kitchen
You might want to sit down.I've been seeing other literary social cataloguing websites.No, wait, put that plate down.
The thing is, I'm doing a big project on book reviews.
*dodges a lamp* But I'm not reviewing with them, goodreads!
if I want my project to say anything, I need to know the lay of the land, don't I?
But, more than just literary social cataloguing websites, I'm also looking at other parts of the internet: online-only reviewers, amazon.com book reviews, and on and on.
The project itself will be specifically about reviews on goodreads, but I'm going to do some comparisons to see why our reviews are better than theirs.
This is such a weird book, but my 3-year old can't get enough of it, constantly singing "Milk in the batter! Milk in the batter!" Why in the world was Mikey in the cake at all?
The Nephew asked to read this tonight. They found the pictures of the naked boy to giggle and laugh. Still they settled and enjoyed the story.This reminds me of Alice in Wonderland. There is no plot, only nonsense. It is the perfect story that is like a dream. It's like we get to watch this whacked out dream this little boy is having. There is so little out there like this. I still love this little story.
I am reading Voracious: A Hungry Reader Cooks Her Way through Great Books, and in this book she discusses books and their recipes and her story that plays into them.
Anyway one of the books is this one and since I absolutely adore Where the Wild Things Are, and since she said that this is a highly contested book that yearly many want to ban.
So that was enough made me want to pick it up and read it.
I guess those who want to ban it protest against the young boys nudity and his little parts being exposed.
However, I guess I have to admit that the real and most pressing reason why I have given Maurice Sendak's In the Night Kitchen five stars (for if I were to consider the book with regard to how much I actually have enjoyed the author's printed words, I would and should probably be giving a high three star ranking, for a fun dream, an often hilarious romp through Mickey's nighttime adventures, but not quite enough for me on a textual, on a plot level), the real and sadly annoying factoid and truth of the matter is that I am so frustratingly and angrily sick and tired of the fact that puritanical dictator types in especially the USA have repeatedly tried to (and sometimes even succeeded) having In the Night Kitchen censored and removed from library shelves etc.
To the person (librarian, patron, library employee or hippopotamus) who censored this book: you are a jerk, and I hope you realize that scribbling ever so carefully over Mickey's private parts meant you focused more on them than anybody else who's going to read the book.
Doesn't that make you the pervert?Anyway: This book is wonderful.
It made me wish I had read it aloud to somebody because there was so much rhythm in the text.
Mickey's expressions are great.
I can't wait to read this to my kids, but I'll buy a copy for myself.
At least the bookstores want to make money, so they won't censor.
Revised Review:“In the Night Kitchen” is a follow-up of Maurice Sendak’s famous children’s book, “Where the Wild Things Are” and has also received the distinguished Caldecott Honor Book Award.
Parents who do not want their children to know about nudity at such a young age might want to steer away from this book since it has many nudity scenes.“In the Night Kitchen” is an extremely unique and beautiful book about the wonders of the dream world and will surely captivate many children’s hearts just as “Where the Wild Things Are” has for many years.
To tell the truth, I thought I was going to intensely dislike this book.
But, I’ve seen this book discussed recently and I was curious, so I borrowed it and just read it.What a trip!
This is a wonderful book.
This book is so imaginative, funny, a joy to read, and yes, I even enjoyed the pictures.
Once again, the actual style doesn’t wow me, but the content does.One of the best ever dream books for kids!
In my fantasy, I wonder if I’d have enjoyed this book even more if other illustrators had created these exact same pictures, but in their art styles.
Uh, well, I tried to be grown-up and open-minded, but I (like some others) was a little surprised that Sendak would illustrate full frontal nudity.
So, I found it slightly unsettling, even in trying to put it in the context of a child's dream.
The child being baked in a cake was even more disturbing than the illustrations.
Perhaps this just isn't my kind of imagining, but I didn't like the boy's dreaming.
Unless it's a child that had a nightmare they were going to be baked in a cake and have them read this book to help them get over that trauma.
Any time a book has polarizing reviews, I'm interested as to why. This being a kids' book made me more interested. Seems one issue was the little boy's nekkedness. That was not an issue for me at all. Kids like being naked. We all have strange dreams. (This book is the little boy's dream.) What really weirded me out was the three fat bakers. They were creepy. I guess this confirms that I'm not a huge Maurice Sendak fan.... ;)
It's just way too weird for me... Maybe X-man will be able to explain it too me when he can talk!Children have fantastic imaginations, and they'll need them to understand this book.Why are the three bakers clones - and why do they look like Hardy (from Laurel and Hardy)?How can you confuse milk with a small child?Why is the oven called a "Mickey Oven" if they didn't mean to bake him?Who eats cake for breakfast? Well, I suppose children in their dreams!Do I dare read the final of the "Wild Things Trilogy" - Outside Over There?
Somehow I never read this growing up. I have now read it to my daughter about five times. I have absolutely no idea what the hell this book is on about. "Thanks to Mickey, we always have cake in the morning!"We do? WHO HAS BEEN TAKING MY MORNING CAKE
Maurice Sendak's illustrations are beautiful as always, but I didn't really "get" the story. Judging by other Goodreads reviewers, I was lucky to get an uncensored copy from my local library.
There are at least 100 and more books that are banned in the United States. Books of all kinds are being prohibited from schools and some libraries. But what’s the reason? Why are they being banned? Should books even be allowed to be banned? These are all questions that need answers. I think books should not be banned. All subjects no matter how realistic they are should be allowed to be printed and exposed to the world. Reading books that covers certain topics can teach us how to look at the w
Banned books such as “Go ask Alice” and the “Chocolate War” was both interesting books.
Parents felt the book encouraged drug use, sex, and the topic was to mature for teens.
It seems these days book critics read books just to search for a reason to ban it.
We were asked to look up the banned books assigned to us.
Parents felt the book was to mature for young children.
Parents wanted this book banned for 3 main reasons; Mickey was NAKED, he roamed the streets ALONE, and the book had MASTURBATION in it.
This is one of the creepiest books for children out there. I was traumatized by this book as a small child. I wanted to reread it from an adult perspective. It's still creepy. I will never show this book to any children.
Sweet, but no Wild Things...
A very fun book of imagination that my two-year-old grandson adores. Yes, Mickey is naked--isn't it wonderful that we can be honest and open about our bodies?
The first time I read the book I was just all sorts of confused.
I did not understand the story line or or why a child would have a dream about being baked into a cake.
After reading again, I found that I liked the style the author chose to write this story.
The story really flowed and it was creative.
However, I just couldn't get over the idea of a child dreaming about being baked into a cake.
This book has obviously been banned because of the illustrations of nudity.
I thought that the illustrations were interesting and creative.
And, um, and I love that there was a cake for everyone in the morning.
And I love that he got the milk for the bakers.
And I love that he really had a piece of the cake.
If he did in the real story.Papa: What do you mean the "real story"?Brontë: I mean the real big boy book.
What I hate is, um, I hate that...I really, really, really, really, really hate that the guys were mean and saw the little boy and thought that he was back in the cake.
I remember reading this as a child - how sensational it was to see a boy's penis right there in a picture book!
Since then I've read this to our girls.
Although they wasted no time pointing out the fact that he is naked, they weren't as scandalized by it as I remember.
I understand there's a deeper, darker underlying story to this book regarding the Holocaust, but I never got that from the book and only recently learned of it from reading an interview with Mr. Sendak here.I'm sure that many of his books have nuanced layers that I was just not aware of, and I find it fascinating to relook at these books now as a parent.
I don't remember reading Where the Wild Things Are as a kid, but I do remember reading - or at least looking at - In the Night Kitchen.
I'm sure it was because of the naked kid; I probably hunched over it with a group of other shocked and giggling kids (I remember doing the same thing with Gnomes in fifth grade because a gnome was peeing).
Going back to In the Night Kitchen thirty-some years later, that's about the only thing I remembered.
It's certainly surreal and crazy and to quote from the article I read: "Is Night Kitchen warm, sinister, funny, or frightening?" All of the above.
This is another book I feel like I had on tape.
Then again, maybe it's just that the words have a very strong rhythm, like a chant, that makes me feel like I had it on tape.
This book also reminds me that I would love to start a business that makes t-shirts using graphics from kid's books.
It might not be as marketable as the shirts I see for junk food brands and such.
Everyone loves the Little Miss Naughty shirt I have and that is taken from a kid's book.
It truly is a remarkable, psychadelic romp of a child's dream wherein **SPOILER ALERT**a boy named Mickey falls through his house into a fantasy kitchen with giant cooks who mistake him for some milk (milk!) and merrily bake him into their cake.
Mickey escapes by fashioning an old WWII prop plane out of bread dough and shows those looney-toon cooks a thing or two about pouring milk.The backdrop is a city skyline made of baking supplies.
Mickey spends most of the story naked, except for a measuring cup he dons as a helmet, and bellows "Cock a Doodle Doo" in big, bold, red letters, for no reason.
As children's books go, this is indeed a strange one.Micky is a sleeping child who is awakened, and somehow transfereed to a magical 'night kitchen' sans his clothes (hence the controversy).
The bakers there attempt to bake him into a cake, but covered in dough - Mickey just won't have it.
He finds the bakers milk, and that is why (as the tale goes) we have cake in the morning.I was confused a bit by this story.
Sendak's illustrations are well drawn, and the text itself is so integrated into the illustrations it comes off as very comicbook-esque.It is not necessarily a bad story, but aside from controversial illustrations, there is nothing particularly notable here.
Remember enjoying this book as a kid, and its by the Maurice Sendak so naturally this will be a good story to tell to the kids at story time. It was, though admittedly I had forgotten about the nudity... which seriously... would you want the kid to have clothes on if your gonna bake him into a cake? I did have cake this morning (Thanks, Amy).
This got three readings on the first go!
'Where the Wild Things Are' it isn't. A thin story, distinct but odd art, and a surprising amount of prepubescent male nudity are the three main reasons this is more 'forgotten' than 'favorite' with kids and parents today.
With a few notable exceptions, successful writers whose books sell tell us about the world as it is generally perceived and with a liberal dose of how we would like it to be.For children (or for adults who are prepared to sit back and enjoy the ride), an author whose head is in the right place can produce a catholic ( "chaotic" would be the adult word ) blend of images and ideas loosely collected around a theme and offer it for our entertainment.
That's what children do and adults don't do enough.This book is about a dream, and dreams in general, having a whacky adventure with images from real life - all in a surreal place where the normal rules don't apply.
In all honesty, I tried researching to see if this book had like a hidden meaning, or like when it was published to see if there was a connection there.
This book is banned because of the nudity of the little boy.
What is the point of this book?
If they want to read about about making pie and cake with dreams I suggest reading Sweet Dream Pie by Audrey Wood.
For one, there are no naked children in the book, and for two, it is appropriate.
The only time I would suggest this book, would be for a class like this, where you find out why a book is banned.
It is about a toddler, Mickey, who dreams of floating out of his pajamas and into a bowl of cake batter in the night kitchen.
I am not sure that I would use this in a classroom because I do not know how it would be viewed by some parents since it is on banned book lists and for the nudity.
Outside of the classroom I think that it would be a great read for younger children, the plot is good and the pictures are great so I think that kids would enjoy this book.
Overall, I feel like this story is cute and is a good read for children.
