https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19691.The_Hunt_for_Red_October
At the tail end of the Cold War, Captain Marko Ramius of the Soviet Navy decides to defect , incredibly planning to bring the most advanced submarine in the world with him.The Red October has a new drive system that is virtually noiseless.The nuclear vessel would be almost undetectable, a great advantage against the U.S. and its Allies, but the charismatic Ramius is a bitter man.The widower, and half Lithuanian blames the Soviet Union for the botched operation that killed his beloved wife.He has recruited unmarried and loyal officers to follow his orders.Telling the rest of the crew that they're going on a friendship visit to Cuba!
After reading Fifty Shades of Girl Smut, I think I need a manly book. The Hunt for Red October seems virile enough. Strong sweaty men...at sea...with not a woman in sight. Wait a sec! What am I getting in to? They better not start singing, "In the Navy" or "Y.M.C.A." And if there's even a single fashion tip, I'm tossing this book!Wow, what a wonderful book. This is number two on my Clancy book list, right behind Red Storm Rising.
I read this when I was on the USS Eisenhower. It was so popular with the Squids that I think it replaced the BMR. The thing that really impressed everyone on the ship was how accurate Clancy was with both his research and his story-telling. There was never a "that's not how it happens" moment, so common in media of this type. Engaging story, meticulous research combine for a fantastic read. I recommend this one to everyone.
Tom Clancy is not my favourite writer but for mysterious reasons I have always been into reading books on submarine theme so did not miss out on The Hunt for Red October and enjoyed it thoroughly.
Wow!
I didn't expect to like this book, at all.
So out of my comfort zone, I can't tell you!
But since I'm trying to read books off The Great American Read list I decided to give this book a try.
So thrilling and suspenseful, it really kept me on the edge of my seat!
I've got to hand it to The Great American Read!
They have books on their list for people to read that they normally wouldn't pick up.
So thanks for that because I would have missed out on a really good thrilling and suspenseful book!
I assume his fans are those who love to think and talk about military technical stuff - with a story to go along with it.
Throughout the book the reader is jumping around among different groups of military and political people.I want interesting characters to watch, characters that pull me in emotionally.
In the BOOK Jack and other U.S. leaders all believe Marco (the captain of the RO) wants to defect, and they have a plan and prepare for it.
In the MOVIE, Jack believes Marco wants to defect but another US commander doesn’t.
A Cold War book that aged very well.
Still, a bit of great American prosperity and "our enlisted men are more skilled than their officers" theme running through the book.
A Soviet sub captain makes plans to defect to the US along with his hand-picked officers.
He is in the newest and most advanced Soviet submarine that can run almost silent.
It is discovered by Petty Officer Jones (our enlisted guy).
The Cold War was cold and diplomacy, technology, and behind the scenes maneuvering were the norm.
Clancy captured an era with this book.
The depth of character coupled with the suspense of an underwater attack submarine chase makes this book so memorable that I read it a second time just to enjoy it again.
The plotting is fantastic, but I have to say that it's the way Clancy crawls into the mind of a troubled Soviet sub captain that makes this story so rich for me.
Ramius that we not only understand the complexity of what he's doing, but feel genuine and complete empathy for him in his plight.
Not a moment of suspense is paused while we get Ramius' plight and his desire.
Yes, I may be fashionably late to this party, considering the threat of war between Soviet Russia -- which doesn't exist anymore -- and Imperialist America is a major theme of this novel.
(hide spoiler)].As a side note, when they wanted to make a movie out of this board game: All they had to do was adapt this book again, instead of doing this: But I guess that would have been too easy.
Sigh.Update: Okay, maybe I spoke too soon about the theme of this book being outdated.
Everyone always goes on about how meticulous Tom Clancy's background research is, but there was a moment in this book which made me wonder.
They're going to run a big program on a military computer, and (being gamblin' military men) they decide to bet on how long it will take to complete.
One of them asks how long the program is - number of lines, or punched cards, or whatever.
The other one tells him, and then the first guy makes his estimate.I'm sorry, this no doubt shows what a mean-spirited person I am, but it did cross my mind to wonder if Mr. Clancy knew what a loop was.
I haven't read the early Clancy books in many years and frankly, I'm very afraid to.
I remember the bloated cheap hardback editions (that still weigh down my bookshelves at home) as almost un-put-downable rollercoaster adventures.
What I'm unsure of is if my taste in reading have shifted fundamentally or if Clancy's books took a horrible nosedive around or with Rainbow Six or so?
Since I'm still able to enjoy the odd Alistair MacLean and Robert Ludlum (even if, in all honesty, it's been a while for those too), I'm holding out hope that this and The Cardinal of the Kremlin and others really are as good as I remember).
I read this book when I was a kid before or immediately after the film.
It was an exciting read and I became addicted to Clancy for a brief period before I realised how propagandistic his writing became for the military-industrial complex.
Like the epic thriller with Sean Connery, this book is breathtakingly fast-paced and full of fun characters and the iconic Jack Ryan as a CIA agent.
My father actually hunted Russian subs back in the 70s so he could attest to the realism of the scenario to a degree but particularly to the excitement during the cold war of the battle underwater.
A great summer beach read.
4.0 stars. My first Tom Clancy novel and the one that made me an instant fan of his work. Jack Ryan is a terrific character and the plot was very well done. Highly recommended for fans of political thrillers.
Razlog tome je taj što kada je dobra, onda je zbilja napeta i uzbudljiva, no u dobrom djelu nije takva (barem meni nije bila).Ima više razloga za to, a jedan od glavnih je taj što je čitam danas, a ne u vrijeme kada je napisana.
Mogu zamisliti koliko je bilo tada, no nisam tada živio, a usprkos tenzijama koje i danas postoje, situacija se prilično promijenila.Drugi dio koji nije bio baš po mom ukusu vezan je oko vojne terminologije (i onih popratnih).
Ovo je čisto stvar osobnog ukusa.Nije mi žao što sam je pročitao, no dva put bih razmislio da li bih je čitao da sam znao što me čeka.
Thirty years on, this classic still works. The technology has become dated, but the themes are timeless.A great read.
Action-packed and exciting, this book was rather difficult to follow at times but otherwise was really gripping and intriguing, with vivid descriptions and interesting characters.
Executive Summary: A pretty fun spy thriller that occasionally gets bogged down by too much military jargon.Audio book: This is my first time listening to a book read by J.
I might have slightly enjoyed the movie more however.There are a few parts of this book that seemed to get bogged down with too much military jargon and side antidotes that I don't think always added much to the main story.The main story however is a lot of fun though.
Could not finish.This was my second try at reading a Tom Clancy and this was even more disappointing than the first.
This read like a propaganda novel, describing the Soviets as backwards and unreliable, belittling the 'Brits', and always emphasising American superiority.
I won't deny it started off well, but then it got dull and i spent a lot of time just waiting for something to happen, and when something did happen, Clancy revealed it two pages before.If you're considering reading this, just watch the movie.
This was a fantastic story, one of my all time favourites. All in the Jack Ryan series are great.This one was made into a movie which was also very good.
The Hunt for Red October The Hunt for Red October is a thrill ride you won't want to miss from start to finish the plot keeps you guessing. Why is he doing this? What is his motive? Tom Clancy's unique writing style ties everything together. From engaging characters to an intriguing plot for me it was a must read. The year is 1984, A russian nuclear submarine is steaming to the united states the Americans what her the russians want her back. Could this mean war or is it trying to defect? The Re
The Red October was the pride of the soviet navy, designed and commanded by Marko Ramius a captain of the first rank.
A trusted party member who has gone rogue and is trying to defect to the United States of America but, Its more complicated than it seems.
A last revenge on the state that had taken so much from him and giving so little yes for Marko Ramius it was the only way.
Tom clancy does a great job at making Marko Ramius a likable believable character.
CIA agent, Jack Ryan finds out just how hard it is to find a submarine that appears to fool even the best sonar men.Jack Ryan is one of the main characters that I liked in this story.
Marco Ramius is the captain of the elusive Red October.
In Russia, Ramius had never experienced freedom, which is another reason he wishes to become a United States citizen.
Skip Tyler, an expert when it comes to submarines and a good friend of Jack Ryan, helps the CIA find out what they are up against when they receive pictures of a new Typhoon class Russian Submarine.
Will Marco Ramius achieve his freedom by coming to America?
Damn, Marko Ramius is an awesome character.Just sayin'.Real review:Well, I've finally read a Clancy book.
Or maybe this is a first book thing?I don't think I'd classify this as a thriller of any sort, because it was never really thrilling.
I mean, if they failed there would have been no book and if the Russians had found out Clancy would have had to turn this into a series.
So this isn't a book that you want to read to find out what happened so much as how it happened, and at that Clancy excels.
Probably my favorite Tom Clancy novel, and certainly my favorite on submarine warfare, this book introduces Jack Ryan as a young and bright CIA analyst faced with a politically explosive situation. Realistic politics, thrilling submarine chases and battles, and believable characters make this come together well.
The beginning of the book is so bogged down with details that it's quite painful to read; however all of that is made up by a blockbuster of an ending.
What's more Russian than a Scotsman?I first discovered “The Hunt for Red October” when the late, great Tom Clancy, informed me that the source material would be converted to film in the summer of ’89.
When he explained that none other than Sir Sean Connery would play a crucial part, I immediately grew red in the face and hurled my glass of scotch into the fire quite dramatically.
He too is now my eternal nemesis.Warmest Regards,Eric Jonrosh, spellbinding creator of “The Spoils of Babylon,” airing on IFC, January the 9th, 2014
This is a very good story that is incredibly researched.
The reason is that the movie is simplified.
Even being a ten year veteran of our armed forces, and familiar with military language and acroynms, I found this book slow to read.
The author did extensive research into soviet and allied submarines in particular, but also all naval vessels and even aircraft.
The movie simplified this.
I'm curious to follow Jack Ryan's career, but doubt I could get through all 12 or 14 books in this series.
(Check wikipedia for the list of related books that follow Jack Ryan's career.)
I read all but a couple of Clancy's Ryan/Clark books and find them good in the extreme.
But he does get drawn into the danger, again.Jack (an annalist for the CIA)manages to get tagged to fly photos to the UK...from there he ends trying to convince the powers in charge that a Russian sub captain is trying to defect, not get close enough to the US (with the revolutionary new quiet drive Soviet sub) to launch an attack on the country.
Jack needs to convince everyone otherwise.Thumbnail synopsis but...if you've managed to get by till now without seeing the movie and you're thinking of reading the book I don't want to ruin it for you.Enjoy.
I went through a big Tom Clancy phase when I was younger. I think I read them all. This was one of the best though (the move was even good). I feel like I got a really good grasp of cold war politics by reading all these books... lol.
The Red October is heading West.
The Soviet want her back.
And the most incredible chase in history is on….”Ah, one of my favorite authors of all time.
The incredible Mr. Clancy.
I’ve fallen in love with his works since years ago, been collecting them, until now he sells more books to me compared with other authors.
Well, except Enid Blyton.The Hunt for Red October is his first novel, published in 1984 (I wish I could read when I was three).
Flooding tubes.
Outer torpedo tube doors are open.”“Recheck firing solution!”“Torpedoes in the water port side!”“Left full rudder!
It was alright, rough and a bit technical. But that was just his style. The background and theme might seem outdated now, it's not really. Good news is you can enjoy this again. demonizing Russians is fashionable again. The movie was OK.
