https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6448470-firelight
His black T-shirt is a second skin, plastered to his lean chest. In our shadowed cave, his wet hair looks nearly black. It could be lighter when dry. Medium brown or even a dark blond. But it’s his eyes that hold me. Deeply set beneath thick brows, they drill into me with a stark intensity, scanning me, all of me.In that single moment we connected. Somehow it happened. Oh, god save us all from insta-love.The plot is dumb because the stupid little emo rhymes-with-itch main character, Jacinda, is
I guess dragon parts are like rhinoceros horns, they're aphrodisiac and shit, which is confusing because whenever I read about Jacinda interacting with her insta-love, I don't feel turned on, I feel like puking.
Despite knowing she has to hide, Jacinda breaks the rules, turns into a dragon and flies at dawn because SHE WANTS TO FEEL THE SUNLIGHT ON HER SKIN (no, really, that's why she endangers her entire species).
Her mom freaks out because she feels that her daughters are being raised in a dangerous cult and brings Jacinda and her non-dragon-turning twin sister Tamra into the Real World (not the MTV show).
(And no, I have not read Twilight.) There aren’t any glaring spoilers in this review, at least nothing that couldn’t be gleaned from the dust jacket, but I do discuss most of the book here, so you’re forewarned!Preemptive apology here – I realize this is a long review, but it’s #100 for me, and I felt the need to rant, so …Jacinda is a fire-breathing draki (dragon-like creature) who lives in a cultish commune with other draki.
Like in the hall today before I even saw him, but knew he was near." (73)"That feeling comes over me again, and immediately I know he's here." (87)"That much-missed vibration ignites in my chest, spreads to my core.
*********Never say I didn't warn you!!!*******************Firelight is much less about dragons than it is about yet another love story between the apparently-average-but-actually-very-special-outsider-girl and the mysterious-has-a-dark-secret-is-her-mortal-enemy-but-is-ultimately-just-a-complete-sweetie-and-love-of-her-live-bad-boy .........❶ Jacinda is, without a doubt, the worse MC I have read in a looong time.(And, trust me I've read more than my share of infuriating-as-hell MCs.)No!
By the way, to have more brain cells inside your brain wouldn't hurt, Jacinda.WHAT ARE YOU DOING CHANGING INTO A DRAGON AND FLYING OUT IN THE OPEN WHEN YOU KNOW FULLY WELL THERE'RE EVIL DRAGON HUNTERS OUT THERE?????In case you disagree with me, consider this:Living in her Draki community, Jacinda feels trapped.
Ach Menno, ich kann dem Buch leider echt nicht mehr als 3 Sterne geben und das obwohl die Geschichte so viel Potenzial hat und es sich so schnell lesen lies.
Darum musste ich 2 Sterne abziehen obwohl mir die Idee, das Worldbuilding und soweit eigentlich auch die Charaktere gefallen haben.
Klar, Jacinda war manchmal ein wenig eigen, aber ich finde es gibt nervigere Protas 😅 trotz allem negativem wollte ich immer wissen wie es nun weitergeht mit unseren Drakis, also war das Buch ein super Pageturner für gute Unterhaltung für zwischendurch und ich werde dem zweiten Teil definitiv auch noch eine Chance geben 👍🏻
It's a good thing that doesn't sound like Twilight because that would have been really stupid...Firelight was about...
Firelight was about a monotonous, pessimistic, idiotic, depressing little twit named Bella Swan Jacinda Jones.
Whatever.The characters:Jacinda was a clone of Bella Swan.
Planet I'm-too-stupid-to-live.
He's the ONLY one who makes me feel alive inside." Oh, shut the hell up, you stupid twit.
I felt like Jordan had a tiny idea forming in her heard, but she just couldn't get the execution right.Overall, Firelight was just a bad, bad, BAD case of Twilight meets Romeo and Juliet.
Of course, I love it!! :)
And as for Cassian - to be quite honest - he just wasn't in the novel enough for me to really get to know him in order to properly gauge him as a character.
I think the only thing I ended up liking about her character was that I could empathize with her and the situation that she was put in because of her mother.I found Jacinda's sister, Tamra, to be very annoying and I just wish she could have been a little more supporting of her sister.
An amazing and dramatic book. I was attached to Jacinda from page one, from the moment she first takes flight. With romance, danger, action, family, new friends, and ancient rules, this is definitely one to watch for this fall.
LA PEOR INVERSIÓN QUE HICE EN MI VIDA. Y encima no me lo aceptan en ninguna casa de libros usados. Casi me largo a llorar cuando pedí que me lo cambiaran por uno de Shakespeare (no funcionó ODIO A LA VENDEDORA). Cuando lo leí el año pasado a principio de año, dije: "Me gustó, qué se yo". Pero ahora siento que me volví mucho más crítica y cada vez que lo veo me da vergüenza tenerlo ahí en el estante. Dios. Me lo quiero sacar de encima y no sé cómo. Me había llamado la atención que fuera sobre dra
Casi me largo a llorar cuando pedí que me lo cambiaran por uno de Shakespeare (no funcionó ODIO A LA VENDEDORA).
Es el típico amor paranormal imposible de "Ay, soy una especie diferente de la tuya, la que tu especie caza.
Podemos superar todos los límites, porque el amor lo es todo", y "Tendremos que escapar, escapar y que nadie más nos moleste.
ENCIMA EN PRIMERA PERSONA, TE ODIÉ, TE DETESTÉ Y QUERÍA QUE JAMÁS TE DEJARAN ESTAR AL LADO DE WILL POR INSOPORTABLE.
Will no es lo único que existe en tu vida, por el amor de Dios.
I'll give you a few examples when you should not be reading a book.Yes, there are certain places/cases/events where you shouldn't be reading, quit scowling at me, you silly person.Some suggestions:- While driving a car- While doing open heart surgery on somebody- While you are cleaning (but I've heard some people try)- While getting a tattooWhich makes me think about one of the things on my I-have-to-do-this-before-I-die-list: Extreme chessI don't think I would have liked this book under any normal circumstances, but I read 40% of it while I was in the middle of suggestion number 4.
1.5Obviously, Firelight did disappoint me. With dragons/draki and all that shit, I thought this will be different, really different, but no. It was a freaking love story dressed in dragons. The romance overthrew the plot. *shakes my head*This is my first book, if my memory isn't failing me, about dragons. And this concept of dragons/draki is unique and new to me (since it was my first dragon book lol) but the story is so, so cliché. It is like the typical shows cater by our local television when it comes to peculiarity and trying to fit in. *sighs dramatically*
4,5Muy entretenida historia, Jacinda es una protagonista interesante, decidida y fuerte. Me gusto como comenzó el libro, sin mucha introducción que digamos. Espero continuar con la saga y ¡que sea aún mejor!Reseña completa en Gracias a los Libros.
If you can handle cliches flying from all directions, then you might be okay with this book.Firelight, one hell of cliched book it is, to a point that I want to make a cliches check list:(1) A heroine who is so very special, she's also the only one of her kind?
Check.(3) Said heroine encounters a hunter boy who's supposed to hunt and kill her, but somehow he doesn't?
Check.(4) Meeting said hunter boy again in her new school against all odds?
Check.(5) Said boy being a dreamboat who's hotly sought after by every girl in school?
Check.(8) The hunter boy notices/being attracted by no one but the heroine?
Firelight by Sophie Jordan was one of the best books I have ever read.
I felt an instant need to read more about the amazing mythology, characters, and story the whole way through.I felt an instant connection to Jacinda right from the start.
They were constantly trying to force Jacinda into a life she didn’t want.
Jacinda’s life before Chaparral and more about the enkros, but I am sure plenty of draki-filled goodness will come with future books in this sure to be incredible series.This is definitely a YA debut to watch.
It's not that I didn't like it-- more that I think it had the potential to be a lot better.Jacinda is a "draki" -- a descendant of the ancient dragon prides that once roamed the earth.
Like I said, the story starts out in this forest with an enchanted village where the draki live, and it's all nature-y and magical, and I'm all ready for this crazy whirlwind dragon adventure.
My favorite thing about this book is the draki world that Sophie created. I feel like she only scratched the surface there and that she has so much more to tell us. What an exciting new series to be able to read! I'm very much looking forward to the second book. Is it wrong to beg another author for an advanced copy because I'm not too proud to beg.
The problem of such books is just that sometimes the write style or the characters or the combination of both, take all the tension.
The idea behind the book is actually intriguing and it makes you long for more, but the execution of this idea leaves a lot to be desired...It could have been much better.
The write style was sometimes just too long-winded and unrealistic.
Sometimes Jacinda acted like an adult, a wise woman and then, suddenly without any reasons like a fangirling teenager...And it made me feelSame problem with the other characters.
All of them were too much character and not enough personality.
It was enough for me to start coveting like a sinner.I couldn't wait to dive into this book, and from page one, I was hooked.
So yes, TWILIGHT fans will probably like this book.(You know there's a giant BUT, right?)BUT, while FIRELIGHT has the whole lion-falls-for-the-lamb bit going for it (a premise I think is brilliant, by the way), that's pretty much where the similarities end.
I can't say that I didn't suspect Jacinda and Will would fall for one another (eh hmmm, it IS a romance), but I did NOT see that end coming.
He sends me a sidelong glance, the gold of his hazel eyes sparking warmth in my chest, igniting a burn I thought was dying.Wow, what a stunning book!
I have so many quotes that I love from this book.I adore Jacinda.
I thought Jordan wrote it well but I just wanted one book where the girls in the story got along.
I could see it coming about 30 pages before the end and starting screaming oh no!
But don’t let that stop you from getting Firelight right now because I thought it was well worth the pain of a cliffhanger.
*3.5 FIRE-BREATHING STARS* “What good is safety if you're dead inside?” Yeah, this book wasn't really my thing, I kind of expected more from it.I loved the whole draki concept but I wish Sophie Jordan executed it a little better. As you all know, I absolutely hate insta-love and that's exactly what happens here. They meet one minute, they have an instant connection and POOF, butterlies fly and they're madly in love. No, just no.
But alas, my eyes uncovered a paltry, watery novel that washed through my mind and caused me to forget about it soon after.I love the concept of draki, the descendants of dragons, morphing into human, and their customs are interesting.
Reading this book would be a much more enthralling affair if we actually encountered the pride alongside her, gaining background information about drakis and enriching myself, thus making the rest of the novel more enjoyable.The majority of the characters are lifeless and perilously flat.
Itsy bitsy tiny spoilers ahead!I don’t know what it is with this book but I’m having an extremely hard time reviewing it.Maybe I can’t come up with anything to say about it because it’s just like every other paranormal YA novel out there right now?
For what it’s worth, I liked the love triangle much better in Firelight than in Nightshade, probably because it was not that much of a triangle to begin with, seeing as our heroine doesn’t really like the guy she’s promised to and we don’t have that forbidden fruit vibe going on.Both books start with the first meeting of our heroine and the human boy in a life-and-death situation.
This is a measure of how righteously OUTRAGED I was at the ending of it.I cannot even believe that anyone would think to write a book that goes doo, doo, doo, story story story EXCITEMEN- FULL STOP, sorry guys, better pre-order the sequel now.Eff you, Sophie Jordan.
(hide spoiler)]Dammit, I wanted to love this book.
(I love dragons.
you get the picture.)What Jordan did do is ruin her own book for me.I am still so pissed at this I can hardly- nope, I can't.
No words.Well, profanity.But I won't share that here.All I have to say is: Dear Sophie Jordan, I will never read one of your books again.
Creo que es una historia y una propuesta muy interesante. Sophie de nuevo me sorprendió con su fluidez y naturalidad al escribir, aunque tengo varias cosas para criticar.El final medio te vuela la cabeza, te dan ganas de más. No puedo esperar a leer el segundo.
I loved this book! I sat down on my bed with it and didn't get up until I finished! Sophie, you must give me the second one IMMEDIATELY!
Like I said, I knew that going in, so that wasn't the problem.The problem is that everybody in the novel is stupid.
In this world, a principal is so un-utterably stupid that he'd actually believe that four popular girls were being bullied by two outcasts, one of which was completely new to the school.And don't get me started on her mom.
(hide spoiler)]So stupid, irrational mom.
As I said, I didn't mind (I kind of like Shatner's Kirk), but once you notice you can no longer not notice.
Sophie's characters and her world building hooked from page one and left me wishing her sequel was already out.Firelight introduces a whole new character in the paranormal world- a Draki.
While the pride closely guards their secret and where they live, they can easily blend in with humans and no one would know it.Jacinda's rare gift of fire breathing makes her a unique Draki who's excepted to be with Cassian, the brooding, hot, Draki Prince whom she was once close to.
I'm really looking forward to seeing more of them together in the sequel.With it's hot chemistry, a captivating world, and an amazing dragon mythology, Firelight is one book I'll be reading over again.
Fue amor.Es muy básico y cae en varios clichés, incluso llega a ser predecible al final. Pero tiene algo, no es una historia corriente, tiene mucho gancho, está lindo escrito y -la reina de las ironías- por momentos me pareció un soplo de aire fresco. Me enganchó mucho, no quería terminarlo y me dejó con ganas de empezar Vanish ya, y probablemente vaya hacerlo (brilla como un diamante en mi biblioteca en este momento, tentándome, susurrando que lo agarre. Y soy débil :P)Reseña completa en LEE.SUEÑA.VUELA :D
Another YA Paranormal Romance filled with teen angst! Despite all that, I enjoyed this dragon story for the most part. A nice quick easy read! 3.5 stars
Was für ein Cliffhanger :O Ich muuuuuss unbedingt weiterlesen *-*
