https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6604744-i-ll-bury-my-dead
y el motivo de las muertes.Para ser una novela de misterio, la verdad que los personajes tienen más desarrollo del que esperaba.
Las mujeres del libro me resultaron interesantes, son todas distintas y ninguna realmente cae en la típica "dama en apuros" de 1950 (el libro es del '53), ya que los hombres suelen estar tan en peligro como ellas.A la historia además no le falta acción y realmente es una lectura muy entetenida en su mayoría.
A crackerjack opening, deceit, doublecross, blackmail, knives and guns, tough guys, deceitful women and danger around every corner.If there are writers who churn out page turners, please note that Chase turns out paragraph turners, sentence turners and word turners.Not a single boring or out of place sentence, no unncessary background info, just machinegun action from fist to last page...that my friends is James Hadley Chase for you, the master, the guru of the thriller, action packed genre.If I was a producer/director I would have made each work of Mr Chase into a movie !!!!
James Hadley Chase's writing is often criticized as being stilted or clunky or whatnot because he was British, living in Britain, and trying to write American noir with a book of US slang at his elbow. Just for the record, he does a *much* better job of writing "American" than most American writers do at writing "British." I've read books where you'd physically wince at the non-Britishness. Consequently I really don't notice his writing. For me, it doesn't get in the way of the story. So if you're sitting on the fence, I say give the book a try.
Somebody executed my sibling.
On the off chance that the police can't deal with it, at that point I'll cover my own dead." Scratch English implied each word, however his endeavors to discover his sibling's executioner begun a chain response of murder and brutality that would about end his own life.
Here is an account of sorted out coercion punctuated by sudden and grisly murder.
Composed with the punch and speed of a bolt firearm, I'll Bury My Dead affirms James Hadley Chase's notoriety for being a main essayist of all-activity, edge-of-your-situate thrillers that request to be perused in a solitary sitting.
Fast paced, intense classic mystery. Well executed! :) Reads like a film noir movie. :)

I have read this when i was at high school...i read it now...nothing special ..just like watching 3 rate film
Before Harlequin became exclusively a romance publisher it released the same sort of mix as most of the other pulp houses of the day, typified by hardboiled thrillers with garishly suggestive covers.
He was one of those British authors who attempted to mimic the American hardboiled pulp style using a phrase book and a copy of Websters.
Someone bumps off his estranged, blackmailing brother.
Even though Nick regarded his brother as waste of space, blood is thicker than water -- or is it that Nick takes the murder as a personal affront?
This book was in a pack of six released in 2009 by Harlequin celebrating their sixtieth anniversary and by far the best in the pack.It has it all, a self-made man, Nick English, who bends the rules and those around him to suit his needs.
Ed Leon, the private detective, hired by Nick to find his brother's murderer.
The chapter in which Ed Leon is in a race against the killer to get to May Mitchell had my heart racing as to who would win out.

interesting
Nice book.Ending was a bit cliched.
at the end good/bad there is always a principle to follow. is the best of the 65 i have read in hardly chase series
Fast paced, motivating pointing in directions of mystery and suspense thrillers this is a nice book depicts originally a notorious crime mystery/noir period.
"The man with brown suit and a slot hat" in our family when we die we are burieing our self"
That's my third time in the last 20 years, yet again I still had to read it from start to finish, the best crime/ mystery novelist of all time!
Rating 3.5/5 It was an highly entertaining book. Read more at:I'll bury my dead
Tense thriller, ending was a bit predictable but the middle was great.
mad about the cover
intersting
Not truly what JHC is famous for.
Good book to read
This is not a faithful reprint of the original novel but a bowdlerization. You should boycott this book.
