https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/327051.Reasons_and_Persons
But for those planning to read Parfit's masterwork of moral philosophy, I would like to offer two words of warning...First, Parfit is a very, very rigorous thinker.While the book doesn't require a whole lot of background knowledge, many readers—including those well versed in philosophy—will probably find it quite difficult.
I mean, one only has to look at Paul Ricœur's horribly misinformed objections to see how even a fellow philosopher can get tangled up in Parfit's argumentative webs.Second, Reasons and Persons is a very, very serious book.For those coming from an Analytic background, it may come as a shock that we can talk about such things as the value of existence and the nature of personal identity with anything approaching clarity and rigor.
It also requires some familiarity with many of the ethicists that Parfit discusses in the text, particularly Thomas Nagel, John Rawls and G.E. Moore, as well as the classics of ethics (i.e. Kant, Plato, Aristotle, Hume, etc.) and the basic theories.If you have some experience with those theories of ethics, then the book is absolutely worth the read.
Though it is incredibly dense, and Parfit's heavy use of thought experiments can make the text hard to follow, (I definitely recommend a strong cup of coffee before delving in; you'll need to have your full attention on the book) that just makes the text more rewarding, and it is not dense without reason.
My deep love of this book is counterintuitive; I generally prefer a very different intellectual style to my reflections on the nature of personal identity.
I'm not entirely prepared to embrace his reductive theory of personal identity in all respects, but I'm deeply persuaded that whatever theory of personal identity we come to adopt, we'd do well to think much harder about the ways in which that identity over time can be said to be stable.
Sadly, this book is quite technical at times (although not at others), and while it might be possible for a smart reader not trained in philosophy will find it very, very difficult.
The author describes three moral principles on which to derive ethical rules, common sense morality, self interest theory, present aim theory.
He goes into an analysis of self and identity and consciousness to bolster the principle aim theory.
He uses the philosophical example of a teleporter that scans ones atoms and copies them in another location destroying the original person and making a replica at that location or to take his view transport someone from some location to another by his definition of self.
He uses this to explore his three moral systems which all have paradoxes if pushed and finally settles on present aim theory.
Having some basic understanding of utilitarianism, I felt that I could follow Parfit's arguments reasonably well, but this is by no means an easy read.
What I found most interesting about Reasons and Persons is when Parfit starts laying out his arguments for a Reductionist view of personal identity (implying, among other things, that personal identity can be indeterminate, i.e. not all-or-nothing).
Building on the Reductionist view, Parfit makes arguments about how we should think about ourselves and others, as well as future generations and our future selves.
Most of Parfit's arguments later in the book are based on the Reductionist assumption, which by then is considered "true".
this book reoriented me philosophically, changed my sense of what i can do with philosophy, and named clearly some things i felt strongly but hazily. parfit, by this book, equipped me with new tools, finer ones. i use it as reference material. i keep it at hand.
When your actions harm someone you never interact with, there's not feedback mechanism to stop you from continuing to create harm.Parfit uses a thought experiment:Imagine you have 1,000 torturers matched up with 1,000 prisoners.
As one example, you could imagine a factory which pollutes a river making the water very slightly worse for everyone downstream.Parfit advances Critical Present Aim Theory, which if you're really curious, I recommend you just read the book because it would take me about fifty pages to unpack (if I am even capable).
philosophy for the future
Parfit makes his best attempt at non-religious, secular ethics.
Using the now-famous Teletransporter thought experiments and clever reasoning, Parfit argues that any criteria we attempt to use to determine sameness of person will be lacking, because there is no further fact.
Even though Parfit failed to solve some paradoxes in this book and he did not come up with unified theory of ethics, he continued this work until his death.
In comparison with the other sciences, as Parfit himself admits, non-religious ethics is the youngest and the least advanced.
It discusses non-religious moral philosophy, in particular what is a good basis for a persons actions.
The consequences of these basic rules of action are then evaluated both for long term effects and interpersonal effects.
Parfits style is such that no previous knowledge of philosophy is needed to read the book.
And this really is a book for anyone, dealing with a basic issue of human life in a new and refershing way.
Reading Reasons and Persons is a good idea for all, giving more insight in your own and other peoples life.
The last part of the book is an extended discussion of population ethics centering around the "repugnant conclusion" (so dubbed by Parfit)--that based on a set of seemingly unobjectionable premises for a consequentialist ethics, it is difficult to avoid the conclusion that it is better to have a universe of trillions of people with lives barely worth living, than the current universe or indeed any universe with a smaller number of happier people.
I feel compelled to draw the conclusion that the existence of the repugnant conclusion stands as something of a rebuke to humans who would "play god." It may be that it fundamentally makes no sense to argue that hypothetical and totally unconnected universes can be compared to conclude which one is better.
This is not true." (281)"On the Reductionist View…It is more plausible to focus, not on persons, but on experiences, and to claim that what matters morally is the nature of these experiences…This principle ignores the boundaries between lives, or the separateness of persons." (446)Parfit doesn’t deny the physical distinction between human bodies, but does challenge the assumption that this distinction signifies a radical or unbridgeable difference.
Our acts may together make these people very much worse off." (83, emphasis his)Parfit explicitly deploys this thought experiment to help us properly frame some of our most pressing modern problems:"They [the Harmless Torturers] know that, though none of them makes any perceptible difference, they together inflict on their victims severe pain.
It’s 2018 and we still do what we want to do or what we beleive is best to do for us. He takes on each of these approaches and breaks them to failure using thought experiments. Very Dostoevsky like and very John Nash like at the same time. I can’t believe how he managed to pull these two worlds in this philosophical maneuver. Must read for fans of ethics, philosophy and mathematics. And those who loved Brothers Karamazov. It’s the same rigorousness applied to plebeian thoughts.
Read the third part, about Personal Identity and ethics.A very good, thoughtprovoking and important book.
This has been, to me, an awesome book.
I actually finished this book several months ago, except for the appendices, but I didn't want to mark it as read until I had done those and I kept putting them off.This is an excellent book which I would recommend to everyone who has the spare time to read it. I can't say much about it that hasn't been said, but I just want to recommend it very heartily.
Clearly a classic on confronting self-interest from a reductionist perspective. Straight-forward thought experiments and argument. But took me 3 tries over 4 years to finish, and admits optimistic defeat in the end.
By devaluing persons, treating them more like nations instead of selves, the connections between our present selves and our future and past ones are decreased.
He uses this to criticize S since, as I mentioned, leads to having less continuity with our future persons so we might have moral duty towards them but it also makes it hard to understand why we care about them.
CP also changes our perception of identity over time which reduces our difference with other persons and our fear of the future and death, even though for some, it makes us care less about loving or dying.
The repugnant conclusion also made me more of a moral skeptic in that it made me more inclined to believe that some imaginable states of the world are fundamentally incomparable in an ethical sense, especially when different numbers of humans are involved.
(Parfit also admits this possibility.) This does not imply that there aren't *any* pairs of states of the world that can be morally compared with one another.
Suppose that a certain club exists for several years, holding regular meetings.
Or have they merely started up another club, which is exactly similar?’ There might be an answer to this question.
But suppose that there is no such rule, and no legal facts, supporting either answer to our question.
And suppose that the people involved, if they asked our question, would not give it an answer.
In my example we can ask, ‘Is this the very same club, or is it merely another club, that is exactly similar?’ But these are not here two different possibilities, one of which must be true.
Parfit basically sets out to show that the long-standing "self interest theory" of rational argument and the non-reductionist concept of identity are in error.
The book proceeds in the manner of classic argument: claims, premises, altered claims, refutation, dilemmas, thought games, weak and strong theories/claims/arguments...with enough references to previous and current philosophers (he's especially thorough with Sidgwick) to make the reader's mind spin.
(Actually, some of the most entertaining reading is in the endnotes.)His conclusions suggest that human beings would get along better if we weren't so wedded to the non-reductionist identity-is-everything idea.
This is a fascinating read and very well written book, although Parfit employs the method of constructing straw men (and a few patently rediculous theories which, however, are quite popular such as the "Tolstoy" view.
I don't know if Tolstoy did believe this though).
Parfit then proceeds to demolish the straw men, creating the impression that his views are the only ones left standing.
Despite this, there are some great insightful moments and a good account of the implications for identity that follow from how we come to be who we are biologically (ie, the moment of conception and the parents involved).
Recommended reading!
I'm finished with this book. I've been reading it for ages and I can't take the slog any more. By all accounts Parfit is a genius and this book has been hugely influential but for me it felt like an abstract, fastidious, and pedantic exercise, by someone more akin to an alien logician than a human being.
Parfit makes a compelling case for how we should think about personhood, or rather, that we should care about our psychological content and continuity (his ambiguously named, relation-R). Still, he certainly seems smart enough to have made such a case more quickly and less dryly. The book is, though philosophically very significant with respect to personhood (and ethics), pretty boring.
One of two people (with Christine Korsgaard) investigating personhood theory as relevant to moral questions (IMHO--seriously humble!) back when I wrote my senior thesis. Always sad I didn't get much beyond the surface of parts of this great book.
I only got a quarter of the way in to it or thereabouts and was bored the whole way, so I gave up. I understand that this has been a terribly inspiring book to many people, but I thought it was poorly-written, deadly-boring, wordy, and off-putting.
I've often felt this book has not received the attention that it deserves. While not exactly what one would call an easy read, the arguments overwhelm the reader and, perhaps, permanently change one's views.
Challenging; yet, fun.
Delightful, wonderfully odd, enchanting, thought-provoking...!
what a book!
