https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397157.Paddle_to_the_Sea
I don't think this would make a great bedtime story as it would take about 30-45 minutes to read it aloud at least.
It would make a great first reader book for someone who wants to read a story if they enjoy more history things.I really enjoyed this book.
He travels all through the 5 great lakes and people help him out along the way and he sees all manner of things.
I know this wouldn't be for everyone, but something about it really resonated with me and the hope and vision of his toy journey making it all the way to the sea.
Canadian Indian boy carves a small wooden canoe with a little figure in it, named Paddle-to-the-Sea. He places it on top of a snow-laden hill, and leaves.
Soon the snow starts melting and Paddle starts on his voyage.
He slides into a brook, leading to Lake Superior, and from there to the other Great Lakes.This book is halfway between a regular picture book and an illustrated book.
Each left-hand page is filled with text, a chapter, describing a stage of the voyage.
These text pages are illuminated with small black and white drawings showing more of the location and the things that are described.
It must have been the local book dragon whispering in my ear, for I am grateful for this great find.
The author takes us on a trip that starts in the great northern wastes of Canada, and we follow the carved toy through the wilderness and down in to the Great Lakes of the States.
Along the way, we find out what the inside of a sawmill looked like and how Lake Superior resembles a wolf's head.
Yes, a wolf's head.
It was sad to see yet another local bookstore leave us, but it brought me great happiness with my last purchase.
"I am Paddle to the sea, please put me back in the water..."This is another book I remember reading over and over.
I can still picture some of the wonderful illustrations in my mind from this book.
It makes a strong case for taking care of the environment, beautiful pictures, and a wonderful "message in a bottle" type story-line.I can see the little canoe and it's totem paddler stuck in the log about to get cut at the saw mill when the Lumberjack sees him.
And I don't know your child will want to try something similar from a river or stream you live next to.
It sure would be fun!Ages: 7+Note: this book is wordier than most picture books so will take over 30 minutes to read (it is broken into chapters).**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Another wonderfully told and illustrated story from Holling Clancy Holling, who provides an emotional hook to the adventures of the inanimate Paddle, and serves as an excellent tour guide to the geography and history of places Paddle passes.The past couple of days DS#1 (age 6) has attempted to go on strike in order to get an extra chapter, and, when we reached the end, wanted the last chapter read again.
(I gave in to the latter - it was a great emotional capstone to Paddle's adventures.)DD#1 (age 4) asked lots of questions, and those questions made it fairly obvious that she didn't understand most of what transpired.
I read this book to my seven and nine year old, and everyone enjoyed it.
Most of the books that I have read to my children are ones that I remember enjoying from when I was younger, but this was my first time reading this wonderful story.
No one was allowed to read a head but I could see both of my older children itching to pick it up and look through it.
I thought the illustrations were beautiful, and especially enjoyed the maps and facts that were added on each page about the different areas through which dear Paddle-to-the-Sea was traveling.
My all-time favorite book from childhood. For years after reading it, I made plans for setting free little boats on various rivers. One idea was to attach a radio transmitter so I'd know one day my boat actually made it to the ocean. It hasn't happened yet...but I still dream...
50 years ago I was a bored and irritable 10 year old stuck looking for something to do and I climbed the stairs in the old Carnegie Library in Hayward, WI hoping to kill some time.
Thankfully, I was able to ditch my little brother in the kiddie stuff an went looking for something, anything, that would relieve my boredom.
Look at the lighting how the little Indian boy is illuminated by the fire as he paints “Paddle to the Sea”.
This is a wonderful book to read aloud to little ones too.
This is a gentle and beautiful book to read to your child.
Holling’s 1941 book Paddle-to-the-Sea was the first grand adventure story I read as a child.
They never get old.The book follows the journey of Paddle, a 12-inch, handmade pine canoe complete with a wooden Native American pilot, as it travels from Lake Nipigon, Canada all the way to the Atlantic Ocean and beyond.
The artwork alone tells the tale of Paddle’s journey, but the real details come to life by reading the book.Paddle-to-the-Sea is one of those rare books that simultaneously entertains and educates.
This one adventure will surely lead to a lifetime of reading exploration.
The story was interesting, exciting, educational (shhhh), and just downright fun to read!
Since we live in Texas and have no experience with the Great Lakes area, this was thoroughly intriguing to us.
The story gave many opportunities for my son to pick out figurative language examples (metaphors, similies, alliteration, personification) to really reinforce our textbook lessons in a fun way.
I especially loved how the illustrations perfectly complemented the story.
cool colors, texture, smudging vs sharp, etc.) But what great fun to explore each lake through the descriptions of everyday objects.
I was expecting it to be about a real person paddling the Great Lakes but this idea is much more creative.
A great geography lesson and lots of other learning too.
Great vocabulary about nature.
A good story to introduce my little dual citizen to natural connection and resources the two countries share.We just finished reading this again.
This is a great read about the areas features, how water systems work, the names of the Great Lakes, major ports on the water ways, seasons and so much more.
Such a good book.
Love reading this story!!
**** Caldecott Honor (1942) ****I really enjoyed this story of a carved indian canoe making a journey from the Upper Great Lakes of Canada all the way to Atlantic Ocean and beyond.
The color images are spectacular, and it's fun finding the canoe, named "Paddle-To-The Sea" in each picture.
Not so great are the black & white images, which can be difficult to decipher, but are nonetheless interesting.
If this journey were to happen today, how much more pollution and waste would have been included?While a bit dated, and some rough spots here and there, overall an excellent adventure story with geographical and historical overviews.
I have one of the original hardbound copies (in terrible shape) that we found at a sale in Ocean Grove, NJ. I have read it many times since then. Never wanting to give it away or sell it. A lovely story from the Midwest. I have now lived in Minnesota for almost 50 years and the story is even more precious now.
This was NOT a favorite.
This is a gorgeous story. I love reading it to my boys and the history and geography of the Great Lakes is only a bonus.
In the Canadian wilderness a boy carves a Paddle Person and sets him on a snowbank, hoping when the snow melts, the small boat will find its way to sea.
The story then follows the boat on its journey through the Great Lakes and eventually to the Atlantic.
What I liked most was the fact that so many people were willing to help Paddle on his way.
I had some difficulty believing in the ending, where the young boy spots Paddle again at the end of his journey, but I do think it was the best ending for this particular tale.
I had never heard of this book before reading it for my Caldecott Challenge, but I'm glad I did.
This is definitely one of the longest Caldecott books I've ever read, so long they don't even put it in the picture book children's section of the library (it was in fiction).
It won a 1942 Caldecott Honor.
While I wasn't really a fan of the color illustrations (with the exception of the cover page and the two-page map journey in the back of the book), I loved the black and white ones because they were so detailed.
A Native American boy's spirit of adventure and exploration is embodied in a beautifully carved bit of the North Woods.
It is easy to identify with Paddle as he journeys through waters calm and fierce, to route for him to triumph against the odds and meet his goal of reaching the sea.The book succeeds primarily because of the Caldecott Honor illustrations.
The lead character is a piece of wood, lovingly transformed into a tiny Native American sailor permanently rooted to his well-designed canoe.
Read Paddle to the Sea to your boy or girl today!
Something about the writing style just had a soporific effect on my already weary mind.
I love the writing style, love the little comments in the margins and all of the helpful maps and diagrams throughout.One of the things I love about books like these is thinking about my own hypothetical children reading them.
Who knows what moves children...maybe I'll have a child who will scoop this up and get really inspired by the maps, or the idea of journeys, or the way that mills work...that's the wonder of stories that are this detail oriented, to me.
I read this to my 7, 6, and 4 year old.
Which actually surprised me, because I thought with how long it was and the descriptions of a sawmill, locks, etc, they might get bored, as they normally do in non-fiction books (it almost reads like non-fiction at times).
I enjoyed it too, although it's a bit long and we had to read it over two nights, and isn't the typical adventure/fairy tale that I usually like to read to my kids.
Some reviews said it was wordy, but I thought the descriptions were really what made the journey so captivating.
1942 Caldecott HonorFavorite illustration: The large map showing Paddle's journey.Favorite line: "You will go with the water and you will have adventures that I would like to have." --Chapter 2Kid-appeal: An interesting story, but it is very long and does contained dated references to Indians as Injuns. I was surprised to hear my neighbor's 5th grade class recently used it in her Waldorf classroom. Could see multi-subject uses for the book with math, language arts and social studies.
Beth (7): I like the ending part because it was happy and it was very surprising too. I thought it was a very long journey Paddle took! There were lots of dangerous seas and lakes along the way. Noah (8): It was very exciting and I loved the end! I loved how he travelled through Lake Superior and Lake Huron and Lake Erie and Lake Michigan and Lake Ontario.
May 14, 2014: I am looking forward to reading more of his books! The author has found a very creative and enjoyable way to explore geography and nature. September 27, 2015: Still an excellent book, this time around. We love HC Holling's work!
A wonderful book about Paddle and the Great Lakes. My sons both really enjoyed it.
I was really surprised how much my 7 year old liked this book! We read it in small doses and tracked Paddle on the map and really enjoyed it.
This book repeated the same thing over and over. It got boring!
3.5 stars
This book is amazing! The pictures are great and the story is an adventure. I liked to look at the map after each chapter and follow his path. ~ Caleb
I am absolutely SMITTEN with this book! We listened to it as part of our Charlotte Mason - Ambleside Online reading curriculum. I have seen SO MANY complaints about this book - and for the life of me - I cannot figure out why. I thought it was SO well done and captivating. I may be a little partial since I am Mohawk (specifically from the Montreal area) and I went to college in Buffalo. We are also about to go on an adventure to Niagara Falls so, we just loved this book. I highly recommend on audio!
