https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238140.Reunion_in_Death
I felt Eve & Roarke's joy and sorrow.
Eve faced with her past and as always Roarke was with her.
People who read it will understand me but that scene made me cry like river.
But also another scene made me cry too but thank god, it was because of the happiness.
:D And I'm seriously in love with Eve & Roarke.
“He could want her, every minute of every day.
Was certain he would go on wanting her after he was dead and gone.
" And what started, darling Eve, was you." 
OMFG 😢 Roarke...
Reunion in Death is, I think, one of the best books in the entire series.
It certainly runs thought the entire gamut of emotions, from laughter at all the witty conversations to tears when Eve goes back to Dallas and faces some of her fears.This is also one of the books where Roarke goes almost too far in the direction of controlling male.
I always like to see him as perfect and he is most certainly not this time!Amazing too that Roarke and Eve have only been married one year.
An awful lot has happened and a lot of books have occurred within that twelve months.
Suspense 4.5 stars / Romance 4.5 starsA female killer! Call me a sick f*ck, but I think the authors discriminate our gender by writing almost all villains as males... I liked to read about a case with a female murderer. She was a very strong and clever opponent to the brilliant Eve.Eve was / is / will always be the best!Romance. I liked their time/his support in Dallas, but was slightly annoyed with Roarke toward the end. Stubborn man, but guess what? Eve can be stubborn too!
The bed was covered in a spread exploding with what she thought might have been poppies ... There was one particular scene in this book that was heartbreaking. I cried for Eve ... and for Roarke, who cannot change the past. Watching her, knowing he had no choice but to watch her live the nightmare, Roarke broke inside. Roarke seems to be trying to ingratiate himself into her work life more and more ... I don't mind that. We get to see more of him. Eve, though, is not too pleased. "Darling Eve."
I cried for Eve ...
Watching her, knowing he had no choice but to watch her live the nightmare, Roarke broke inside.
Roarke seems to be trying to ingratiate himself into her work life more and more ...
Eve, though, is not too pleased.
"So beautiful."He made her feel beautiful.
Made her feel clean.
Made her feel whole.
We know the killer quite early on in the story but that does not detract from the storyline.
It is the cat and mouse game that is being played between Eve and the killer that draws us in.
And, all the men in her life are completely supportive of Eve because they know she is smart, tough, and has what it takes to bring this evil woman down.
When men see women fighting, they are hoping for a free peek at a boob.Another thing going on is that Peabody's parents come into town and for some reason they glob on to Eve as if she's their long-lost daughter or something.
Then, when the pushy parents show up to dinner, Peabody's mother manipulates Roarke into allowing them to stay at their house during their visit.
And that we’ve got an anniversary coming in a couple of days.
And, Carlo, I’ve never loved you more.” (Eve)”I feel exactly the same way, Miranda.
Carlo Junior, Robbie, Anna and little Alice are anxious to see their mum.” (Roarke) Mmm… this seems something Eve could ask, but I’m not sure how Roarke would react…These are only a few examples of the wonderful banter present in this series!
Here we have some wonderful quarrels between Eve and Roarke!
They’re hippy-like couple and I liked them very much!
I was feeling cold dread while reading…Another wonderful addition to the series!
The supposed crime/thriller story of this instalment was the weakest and least convincing of the lot, imho. However! The rest of the personal drama made of up for all the entertainment that was lacking.
Fourteen books in and I am still LOVING everything about this series.
I LOVE that Roarke and Eve feel so real to me.
The writing is fabulous.And I LOVE that even after 15 books J.D. Robb has me wanting for more.
A place in her past that she is uncertain she can face.There is no doubt of the depth of Roarkes love for Eve. He simply cherishes her.
In this one Roarke can feel Eve’s pain to his center.
Eve may have been broken once but with Roarke by her side, never will she be again.
I love these two….Roarke and Eve.
When wealthy businessman Walter Pettibone is murdered at his sixtieth birthday party, Detective Eve Dallas is quick to recognise the face of the person who killed him.
Eve can't work out her motive for killing Walter Pettibone - or her next victim and is frustrated by the lack of leads in tracking her down.
But the murderer has plans to meet up with Eve again and is planning the perfect way to get back at her.This was a really good episode in this series.
Eve also has to take a trip to Dallas and is finally able to summon the courage to revisit the horror of her early years, with Roarke there to support her.
Reread August 2018 — Eve and Roarke come to their first wedding anniversary.
It’s been a wild ride and they are still learning each other.
In this story our villain is a woman Eve put away 5 years earlier.
Now she’s out on parole and ready to continue her killing spree.
This time its vengeance.
Every man who crossed her path and pissed her off is up for a glass of champagne...with poison added for flavor.
She also wants to make the only woman to ever beat her pay.
That would be our favorite murder detective, Eve Dallas.
Now Roarke is in danger.
★★★★★ Wow! How does this series just keep getting better and better? I usually listen to the audio, because Susan Ericksen does such an exceptional job with the narration, but I found myself “stranded” with only the paperback in hand. So many memorable scenes with wonderfully developed characters in this one, even the cat, Galahad.
Another good one and more so because the killer was a female. She was smart and I felt like Eve had to work more for this one.Loving the series more and more.
A killer from Eve's past came back to taunt her and to wage war against her.
My heart just about broke for Eve when she returned to confront her past.
But, if when we're a hundred and twenty and that's more memory than reality, I'll still need you, Eve, a thousand ways.""I looked, darling Eve, and saw the woman I would love, and trust, and need as I'd never expected to love or trust or need another living soul.
The only woman I wanted to be with, to live with, to sleep and wake with, to grow old with."
I really do adore this series and maybe it is because it's been awhile since I've read one but this was so hard to put down. I adore Eve and Roarke and have always loved their crazy and slightly messed up dynamic. Their love it real, no matter how ugly that sometimes gets. I loved seeing them work together just a bit more in this instead of butting heads like they usually do. A well thought out plot line that kept me turning the pages furiously.
I loved it.This case was really hard on Eve, she had to face her past and it was very difficult on both Eve and Roarke.I loved Peabody's parents, they are so diffenent from their daughter. And Peabody, spread her wings and had her own case. I was equally invested in her case as Eve's as well.
As a birthday party becomes a murder scene, Eve Dallas and her ever important sidekick, Peabody have her hands full as they try to track down a killer with a personal intent to get Eve.Meanwhile, Peabody gets her chance to shine as she is assigned her own cold case to shut down.
I don’t think I’ve ever been so consumed by a book before.There’s a ton more I could go on and I think one of the most important scenes to mention is the trip to Dallas where Eve and Roarke go together to meet the killer’s step father.
What draws me to this series is the futuristic aspect and the investigation interwoven with it!But this book concentrated more on the personal aspect of Eve Dallas's life.
There was too much info dump on her emotions and relations and I just felt like skipping all those chapters....From the start we know who is the culprit.
The book is all about Eve finding the killer to stop anymore killings and (view spoiler)[even stopping an attack on Roarke's life.
(hide spoiler)].The main villain was not scary enough and from the start we know that the villain is going to lose.
I love the development of Eve's (Dallas) & Roarke's marriage and their relationship to and with each other -- this book brings us to their first wedding anniversary.
In this story she went to Dallas to face her past and it was truly horrific and heartbreaking for both Eve and Roarke -- and me.
There was also more development in Peabody & McNab's relationship.
And Eve gives Peabody a cold case to solve on her own - oh, good, she gets professional development too!14th in the series (read them in order!) and a definite favorite!
The mystery and crime of this book was awesome, and I enjoyed it very much.
I didn't enjoy that this book took another long look into the tragic and horribly events of the past when Dallas was 8.
It's really the ONLY thing I don't like about this series and I appreciate the books where it just touches on the subject....
Also, this book felt really predictable....
It felt like events that happened with Eve and Roarke were in just about every other book so far.
I hope the series isn't going to be so predicitable (like a TV series) where all the same things happen with just different crimes to solve.
Reunion in Death4 StarsIn her latest case, Lieutenant Eve Dallas investigates the poisoning of a wealthy business man.
After ruling out the obvious suspects, Eve realizes that the victim was targeted by a newly paroled prisoner - a killer that Eve was responsible for incarcerating.
Nevertheless, much of the book actually focuses on the continuing character development and growth as Eve confronts some of her personal demons, Roarke accepts some difficult truths, and Peabody is put to the test when she is given responsibility for investigating a cold case and interrogating a suspect.
This latest installment in one of the best Mystery-Suspense-Romance series of all time gives us more insight into Eve as a child when she faces the demons that await her in Dallas, Texas, where she was found as a child with no memory and no name.
Julie Dockport has a thing for older, multi-married, wealthy guys.
In the past she married them then killed them, now she skips the marriage and just kills them.
She has chosen New York in order to taunt Eve and, in the end, get the ultimate revenge.
In following the clues to learn the motive behind a female serial killer, Eve must face her past in Dallas. It's one of the better plots, with outstanding performances by Peabody and some slam-bang arguments between Eve and Roarke. I've taken one star away because for some reason Susan Ericksen doesn't have the proper voice for Peabody; in some scenes Peabody sounds almost like Eve, and it's annoying.
Another great read - love the fight scene at the end especially, plus things get blown up a couple of times!We meet Peabody's parents (and I really like their characters). My "favourite" female serial killer on the loose using her speciality "arsenic poisoning" and then happily set up and apprehended in Eve fashion!Two thumbs up and 5 stars!
This is the fourteenth book of the In Death series, set in 2059, and featuring Eve Dallas, a lieutenant in the New York Police Security Department.
After Eve eliminates all the obvious suspects like the trophy wife, the ex-wife, and the grown children, she discovers new evidence that the killer was Julianna Dunne, a woman she arrested nine years ago for poisoning three of her husbands.
It starts to look like she intends to murder Roarke as some sort of revenge against Dallas.
She manages to stay just out of Eve's reach and poisons several other wealthy men.
This was another great book in the series. Not only had it been a year since Eve got married, but she is dealing with a case from her past. This book was great, it brought it several different issue and I really enjoyed it.
This might be my favorite in the series so far. The mystery was great. Julianna was seriously deranged and I couldn't wait for Eve to give her what she deserved.I not only loved the mystery, but really every part of this book.We got to meet Peabody's parents, who are just such a delight. Eve made huge steps in moving forward from her past. And there were some scenes between her and Roarke that brought me to tears.Not to mention McNab and She-body! *dies*
I hate what Roarke did going around Eve in this book - and in the previous one. I think he gets off too easy with it. And I hate Whitney in those situations also. I also don't really like the ending. I liked their anniversary celebration, Phoebe and Sam, and the trip to Dallas. It's always a bit of a see-saw to me in this book with those things I like and those things I don't.
There were way too many misspellings and strange hyphenation in my Kindle edition. And even that couldn't take away my enjoyment with this installment. Number 14 is the best of the bunch so far, if you can believe that!
4 1/2 to 5 stars
