https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/559602.Design_Basics
This is the right book to start learning the real way to design, it is simple but rich.It is full of illustrated examples and great works of art.This book will teach you that all you need to have in order to be a designer is curiosity.
This was a good basic introduction to art and design principles.
I took this class because I wanted to learn the basic principles of design, and it was an invaluable class.
I think that I learned more from the teacher's lectures and examples she showed in class than I did from the book, but it was helpful to get some didactic instruction with the book.
I got a copy that was black and white, except for the color chapter.
I think it would have been helpful to have more color images, but the examples were pretty good that they used for the concepts.
Let it be known that this book does nothing whatever to aid in that quest; it did, however, teach me a lot of things about art that I hadn't known before.
(Which isn't saying much, admittedly: I am extremely ignorant about fine art.) Things like light, perspective, color, balance, rhythm, and all of those sorts of topics were covered and I am now marginally less stupid about my sister and future brother-in-law's professions.Mostly, though, I'm just glad I finally got this off of my "currently reading" shelf.
A lot of this is just small blocks of text. About two sentences for concepts then the rest describes artwork that has been copied onto most of the pages. Not a very helpful reference book. The only chapter that I found useful was the one on color. But that's not enough for me to want to keep the book. I'm glad I only rented it for my college course.
Abban segít, hogy a dizájnnal kapcsolatos, intuitív módon többnyire már megértett dolgokat elhelyezhessük egy rendszerbe, és elkezdhessük tudatosan használni őket.A könyv legnagyobb erősségei: az azonnal áttekinthető szerkezet és a remekül megválasztott illusztrációk.
Ami a szerkezetet illeti, minden egyes téma pontosan két, egymással szembeni oldalt foglal el, balra a téma lényegre törő szöveges ismertetése (és esetleg egy-két kép), jobbra pedig kizárólag illusztráció található.
oldalon kezdődő, "Color" című fejezethez (az egész könyv mindössze 280 oldal), és meglepetésszerűen kinyílik a színek világa - ez az a pont, ahol már szükség van rájuk!Összefoglalva: a Design Basics jó alapozó mű, és bár nem gondolom, hogy naponta használnám, mostantól ott lesz a kezem ügyében.
This book is a great introductory design textbook. It lays out the concepts and principles very well. I was quite impressed with the number of images (paintings, drawings, photos, etc.) and how well they actually corresponded to the principles taught in the book.It is a textbook and can seem daunting to go through, but it reads really fast and is actually quite interesting. I would recommended this book to all design students.
Textbook assigned for class. I have the 8th edition (2012) and the 2nd edition (1985) and read both. It's curious to see how the chapters were rewritten and how they've changed the art selections and examples to reflect the times... In all honesty, I think they could have had more text and less fluff. It skims all the issues of the eye, but I feel my own research into the subject helped me learn more in the end.
Admittedly, no, I did not read this textbook in it's entirety. This was a required book for one of my art classes and I did find it enjoyable to read. Definetly not boring, as their are many pictures/paintings/art works throughout that were made as an example. Easy to read and made for the person who fears the textbooks with pages filled with only words.
This is an excellent text book. Each page has numerous, full-color illustrations, giving examples of the design elements that are being discussed. Lauer is very considerate of his readers, making the reading easy and interesting for his visual learners.
This is an absolutely amazing book. It's packed with solid design fundamentals. It has provided me with solid foundation on understanding the visual language. I just wish it wasn't so damn expensive, but it's College text so go figure.
good book
Good read if you are an art major. It states and gives definitions to things that come intuitively. It will be a good reference book.
This is a beautiful textbook which I would like to reread and practice applying.
That’s an amazing one, a clear-cut reference book and a guide to composition and basic elements of design. Worth every cent spent.
great book for fundamentals of design and aesthetics
simplicity and complexity are not contradictory forces in design.. like Elizabeth Murray showed.
good book
Wonderful introductory book to design elements and principles. It is not discipline specific and is well suited for foundations 2D design courses.
I do not like the layout of this book ironically, but it is a good chunk of information that touches on all the basics of design concepts and execution.
The best for learning the fundementals of design. simple and easy to read, very self explanatory and has alot of interesting graphics.
i learnd alot from this book great read.
Love this book it is simply the best Art book ever!!!!
