https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/342637.Dali
It’s not clear whether Dali was a genius or a mad man, or both, as his art transcends anything else on the market at the time.
There is a deep religious vein that runs through all his work and Dali embraced that fully.Some of his art is over my head and that points to his world view.
Although from my perspective, he was probably right at the time.A multi talented man he not only did painting, drawing etc but also theatre, films, and books.
الكتاب يضم لوحات الفنان سلفادور دالي، ، اللوحات تستحق خمس نجمات بلا أدنى شك. المشكلة ان الكتاب لا يضم غير اللوحات ، لا مقدمة عن الفنان ولا أية شروحات ، على الاقل لو وضع صاحب الكتاب عنوان اللوحة وتاريخ رسمها لكان ذلك افضل بكثير. اضطررت أن استعمل خاصية البحث عن الصور في الغوغل بعد التقاط صورة للوحات بالموبايل لكي احصل على بعض الشروح والمعلومات.
Quite a remarkable opus! One of the best bios on Dali, he's portrayed as a genius and as a mad man alike. With fine detail as well as an excellent bibliography, this work is worth for collection and for a careful study on the subject. Two thumps up!
What a beautifully illustrated book, displaying and explaining the extraordinary art of Salvador Dali.The rich text describes his inspirations and offers insights into his life.
Got it to see all of his work and read blurbs on certain paintings. He was and still is my favorite artist. All the history behind some paintings is glorious. I don't think there has ever been a sassy artist like this jerk. Also, he broke up with a woman once just to see her cry and make a painting about the emotion. 12/10 artist of the year all years
Very interesting. I'm not sure if this is the exact book I read on him. I learned that (in my opinion) he was a bit of a creeper. I had no idea he had a foot and food fetish. He also loves painting genitalia...At least he's good at it?
Best Pictures, poor text
Is there anything I could say after reading the work of one of the greatest men to set foot on this earth?
Crazy explo!
Foi maravilhoso conhecer esse artista ES-PE-TA-CU-LAR que foi Salvador Dali (eu só possuía aquele conhecimento superficial), uma pessoa muito complexa, curiosa, apaixonada e acima de tudo trabalhadora, o cara pintou muuuuuuuita coisa, muita!
Esse livro alem de textos que explicam as fixações e motivos de seu estilo surrealista "rebelde" trás milhares de seus trabalhos.
Achei incrível as mudanças de temas que o assombravam desde coisas bizarras do tipo: costelinhas de porco, chifre de rinoceronte, nádegas, hologramas (para fins bizarros) até coisas comuns tipo rochas e paisagens,incrível, isso também ilustra a mudança de um estilo que era ultra local, destacando coisas regionais para um estilo super complexo, internacional, pop envolvendo até tecnologia, enfim que cara fooooodaaaa!"
As much as I enjoy Dali’s artwork, this book was not very good… Most of the problems stem from the fact that they shrunk the book down to half-page size, so the text and images became very small and very little of the detail in the artwork could be enjoyed. It did not help matters that I found the writing style to be rather obtuse and impossible to become engaged in. I’m sure Dali had a fascinating life, but the presentation was so subpar that I don’t feel like I got much out of reading this book.
A very nice collection of Salvador Dali's works. It also gives a complete picture of his life and is more detailed as short-read biographies. The advantages are as follows: nice complete book, enjoyable to read, gives a little bit more than an average knowledge and has an amazing design.Disadvantages: the illustrations are often to small and are not in all cases attached to the text.
Surely one of the best but also a whore, a genius whore
So far the best art book of the artist I read.
Bought for the art.
The book is so original.
The book Dali: The Paintings was excellent. It shows his work from childhood on. It also gave you a glimpse into his personality. He may have been an amazing artist, but he was a disgusting individual.
I fell in love with Dali's work when I went to the Dali Museum in St. Petersburg, FL after a work convention. This book shows some work I had not seen before. My favorite: The Hallucinogenic Toreador - so many different levels to it. I was fascinated by it on the tour. I would never have noticed everything without the guide.
I know he's not everyone's cup of tea, but I used to live in St. Pete's where they have the museum. It was the best museum we had down there, so what can I tell you. Plus, I rather like the idea that he might really be Adrian Brody.
Whoa!!!
The definite collection of every Dali painting known to man... or at least most of them!
Welcome to the daliverse. This book contains so many pictures that now I am suprised if I see any Dali artwork I can not recognize.
overwhelming awesome I just love him.
Impressive.
Una gran cantidad de información infaltable para cualquiera que esté interesado en la vida de este genio del arte.
Very obscure art, but I love to look at it.
Detailed, comprehensive biography with excellent reproductions of some amazing paintings. Holy crap, what a talented original [or is it an original talent].
YummyYummyYummy
Absolutely brilliant. A collection of all of Dalí's paintings. The best books I own.
a thorough retrospective of a genius! Dali is beyond human
