https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121841.The_Perilous_Road
Chris Brabson and his family are Southerners during the Civil War. They live in TN, close to Chattanooga, and just like any good little hard working family, they mind their own business and try to make a living with their little farm.
Chris has his opinions about the Union Army, and it is not a very high one.
Chris tries to take things in his own hands to show he is a real Rebel.
The strange thing though is, even if you don't like a book or it felt like required reading, it's the one that sticks with you.
Excellent story about a young boy who learns that war—especially a civil war—causes men to make terrible choices. This reminded me of Rifles for Watie, but it is fitting for a younger audience.
I would give this 100 stars if I could.
Another read to the kids aloud for their history curriculum.
It did a good job of showing the many facets of war, sides, me right, you wrong, etc.
Even a good read for grown ups who swear up and down their views are the right ones.
A good reminder people are good and have good intentions on both sides of the fence.
I don't actually think every human always has good intentions....lol...but it was a good read for kids about the civil war and introducing ideas that everyone thinks they are right, and it becomes really difficult when we start killing each other over it.
Chris is a confederate through and through. He discovers that war is more than a battle of ideas when he reports a vanguard of Yankees moving through the woods near his Tennessee home and finds that his brother is part of the Yankee troop. In his attempt to warn his brother, Chris meets the dreaded Yankees soldiers and learns how much all men have in common. Published in 1958 a recommend JF classic.
I read and listened to this book concurrently and the narrator did a great job with the small part that I actually listened to, as I ended up reading most of it.
The story is very good and a powerful story for young people to read.
It involves a teen boy near Franklin, Tennessee who hates the Yankees, then finds they are just regular folks when forced into close proximity with several soldiers.
His hate turns to confusion and then understanding.
It has the moral that war is not the way to solve problems between people and shows that civilians suffer when war progresses.
Very good story, told well.
Excellent Civil War fiction for elementary school age kids. My mom got this for me in perhaps fourth grade and I remembered it fondly. Just reread it for the first time since then and really appreciate the complex, ambivalent, difficult presentation of the war—presented in an age-appropriate way. Starts off a mite slow and the dialect may be difficult for modern readers, even those of us from Appalachia, but worth your while.
This is a good children's book about the Civil War. Chris, age 14, knows he hates the Yankees, and he keeps thinking of ways to help the Confederates. However, in the end, he finds that both sides are made up of good and bad men, and that you need to be careful who you trust.This is a Newbery Honor Book.
Chris doesn't understand why his brother would fight for the Union, especially after Union soldiers took their only horse and the food they'd put back to get through the coming winter. He vows revenge, but when he is trapped in the middle of a fire-fight, he sees there is more to the conflict and the soldiers involved than just Union vs. Confederate.
Set during the Civil War. Chris is a young boy in Tennessee and he hates the Yankees. An up-close and personal glimpse into the Civil War--a very sad time.
I only gave if four stars because I read about three other world war I (or II), and I was getting bored of them,.
3.5
very great book about a family separated because of the Civil War
A hard read of the conflicting emotions of a boy during the Civil War.
It was enjoyable. It had history in it and good characters.
I would lend this book to my friends to read about some "events" in the civil war. I think everyone should have some knowledge about the civil war
Read with My Brother Sam is Dead
I love that it talks about the civil war and how it describes what happened to like southerners who supported the north.Summary Chris hates the north because they keep stealing food from everyone in the south.
So he tells Silas where a wagon train is at.
Then he hears his brother is in that wagon train so he goes to tell his brother whats going to happen.
Chris tells his dad everything and about Silas.
But Silas never left his house and Chris learned the Southern army was already heading that way anyway.CharactersChris is eleven years old and he loves the south at the beginning of the book.
I read this historical fiction novel aloud to my children, which won the 1959 Newbery Honor Award.The story takes place in the 1860s in Chattanooga, Tennessee during the time of the American Civil War. Chris Brabson is ten years old, and he is horrified when his older brother, Jethro, decides to join the Union Army.
Some of the neighbours show their hatred for the Yankees and take their anger out on the Brabson family because they feel betrayed by Jethro, and they set fire to the Brabson’s barn.My children and I really enjoyed this story.
what a nice book that will keep this type of story alive.
the type of story that children would sit around and listen to their grandparents tell that they heard their grandparents tell.
When the fighting of the Civil War came close to home and his older brother went and joined the fighting he ran to warn him about the approaching enemy.
The only difference is they are many, many miles from home instead of just down the road.
As he heads for home his mind has been changed and he feels like he's grown up several years in just that one day.
what a nice book that will keep this type of story alive.
the type of story that children would sit around and listen to their grandparents tell that they heard their grandparents tell.
When the fighting of the Civil War came close to home and his older brother went and joined the fighting he ran to warn him about the approaching enemy.
The only difference is they are many, many miles from home instead of just down the road.
As he heads for home his mind has been changed and he feels like he's grown up several years in just that one day.
Read the full review on my blog: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...It’s a somewhat simplistic story: a young boy hates the Northern army but soon discovers that most of them are just like him and his family–hungry, cold, and wanting to go home and stop all this fighting.
This book captures the feeling of being a kid, old enough to form strong opinions, but too young to see others’ perspectives.
The Southern accent portrayed in the dialogue is also spot on–and I usually hate written accents!
It’s not my favorite Newbery book, but it is certainly enjoyable.
Take a look if you or your kids are into Civil War-era literature.

A great coming-of-age story for young people about 14-year-old Chris Brabson from Tennessee who, in 1863, after watching Union soldiers take his family's horse and crops, finds himself hating the Yankees.
Things become even more confusing when his own beloved brother decides to join the Union army.
Jethro, his hatred festering, decides to take revenge on the Yankees and become a spy for the Confederates.
Soon he discovers that the Yankee soldiers aren't much different from himself and that war isn't as simple as he once thought.
Captures the conflicts of a civil war beautifully.
11-year old Tennesseean Chris resents Yankee pilfering of the food he's worked so hard to grow and gather; when his older brother joins the Union army, Chris is angry and ashamed.
His efforts to get back at the Yankees bring him to a full experience of the horrors of war, and of the humanity of both sides.
And has he caused his brother's death?
In a relatively short book, over the course of a few days, Steele states his case: war makes people do things they shouldn't.
The author really goes for it terms of writing in a dialect found in the mountains of Tennessee, one I have not encountered on many occasions.
I can't speak to its authenticity, but I can say that the author's writing of regional dialect is well done.
It would be easy for the writing to be overdone in that sense--in many books the stylized language becomes a speed bump and serves to alienate the reader.
Steele seamlessly integrates the regional language in a way that makes you feel more a part of the story than a visitor to an unfamiliar land.
A potent tale of a Confederate young man who quickly realizes how human the Union enemy is. This story both describes the loss and depletion the Southern residents endured as the Northern troops scavenged through their farmlands as well as the depravity the Union soldiers experienced as supplies ran seriously low. A commendable book detailing an honest perception of the effects of the Civil War.
Well, it was okay. It is about a boy in the hills of Tennessee during the Civil War. He hates the Yankees, and he hates how they stole all their food and their horse and how his brother went to join their army and how they ruined everything.Anyway, the boy tries to do what he can to fight the Yanks, and he is lucky to have survived all of the things he tried. What he does learn though is that there are both good people and bad people on both sides of the conflict.
The book 'The Perilous Road' was an okay book. Like I thought it was good it's just they made it to short and was a bad ending. The book in the beginning and middle. Some of the description made feel like you were there. Also it gave you what people felt for the Civil War. It also described what hardships the citizens went through. So if you like history, the Civil War, or if you just like action pack adventures then this would be good.
I read this book with my boys as part of our study of the Civil War. They enjoyed the action in the story. We had great discussions about the big changes in the attitudes/prejudices of the main character, a bitter Southern tween boy. The book was well-written with rich vocabulary and dialog that didn't go over their heads. They gave it 4 stars.
