https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43919.Faerie_Tale
I read this book back in one weekend back in the 1983 it's real dark horror one of most creepy stories of its time if want a one of horror of outstanding performance in a book this is not just good it is fantastic
Feist is certainly one of the best in the genre.
His descriptions of the worlds he visits are vivid; you not only see them, you feel them.
This is the first of Feist's works that I read, and on re-reading, the magic holds.
For my money, this is his best.
Feist, like King and children themselves, knows that kids are often the targets of the Bad Things and that they must and do struggle with evil; he doesn't shy away from these truths.
His magical beings live in a different, sometimes overlapping, reality, with it's own rules.
The first quarter of the book was slow and a little clunky; I felt it very contrived and awkward, almost like the author wasn't quite sure how to get all his characters in one place, or how to introduce them once he brought them to the same location.
Even the "good" faeries have a streak of weirdness and cruel humor.
The plot moves along fairly well after the initial slowness, and there are some interesting twists and developments with secret societies and ancient history.
Worth a read if you are interested in the "modern faerie" type stories.
I am shelving this with my other facetious "to-not-read-ever" reviews, even though I have nothing against the book.
My parents owned a copy of it when I was very young and I was always fascinated and creeped out by the evocative cover with the lost shoe and the smear of blood.
I spotted a used copy at a library sale a few weeks ago and debated buying it but I have too many books to read already.
I question why my parents just left lying around what is obiously some sort of weird monkey insect pedophilia fetish book.
This is one of my favorite stories of all time, and if I could would be the one book I would convert into a movie. It would definitely need modernising.The story gets a little dark in places, but is otherwise a tottaly captivating read that blends real-life and faerie myth perfectly.My female friend who doesn't read very often, couldn't put this down, but couldn't read it by herself at night.
It's well written and well thought out.My own problems, however, were threefold; first, I really don't like fantasy and it's my firm belief that this will be my last book to fit into that category.
I came to believe that this one would tilt more in the "horror"-direction and it did in parts and all should have been well with that if it wasn't for problem two; mythology and mythological creatures.
If neither of those are true, you are in for a chore.
It wasn't so bad in this book, but I never enjoy them.
Impossible to read.
After a simplistic, yet somehow intriguing prologue (a guy sees something, then he grabs a bottle and drinks...), there is a first chapter....
where we find all about a mother, her husband, two boys, a girl, a house, a porch, a certain brand of dog food, a dog (and the dog has a name), a cat (and the cat has a name, too...) and...
And I am no brave enough as a reader to venture further in such a risky business, even if it may get better after a while.Back to the „Dragonlance” cycle.
3.5 StarsA solid read meshing horror with a fantasy tale about a family who discovers faerie legends are far more real than they ever imagined.
The setup sounds like it’s straight from a horror movie.
Where the book differed from so many horror movies is the faerie element.
Instead of some demented killer in the woods, there are wonderful, terrifying, fantastic creatures from legend.
As the story progresses, the family comes into contact with some of these creatures, slowly realizing that there is something in the woods, even if they don’t understand it.
The faeries in this story are fantastic, beautiful, but utterly alien creatures.
FAERIE TALE (Suspense/Fantasy-Hasting Family-Pennsylvania-Cont) – VGFeist, Raymond, E.
Unexpected, and unexplainable, encounters with strange creatures, the boy’s acknowledgement of “the Bad Thing” living under a bridge and Gabbie’s almost sexual encounter with a farrier who died over a hundred years ago are only some of the strange goings on which threaten the family.*** I love this book and read it every year or so on Midsummer’s Day (June 24th).
Each time I read it, I find myself researching the legends and faerie folk involved, looking for erl-king hills and avoiding faeire rings at midnight on Midsummer’s Night and All-Hallow’s Eve. Next year, I’ll remember to start earlier in the day so I’m not up until midnight finishing it.
This is urban fantasy that Charles De Lint would later make a full career out of.
It would be more accurate to describe this as an urban fantasy as if written by Stephen King at the top of his form.
For those of you who get mad at a lot of books because they don't have good endings, you have nothing to worry about here.
And I love this book which I've re-read several times and given it to my sister who loved it, who in turn let our younger sister read it, who loved it, and I also gave it to the wife of my old guitarist friend who is a fairy collector and a borderline lover / hater with everything she reads, annnnnnd..she LOVED it!
Raymond E Feist has built an impressive catalog, and even been likened to a modern day Tolkein.
Typically, he sets his stories in the Realm he first began to create with "Magician: Apprentice".
But what the characters experience is anything but modern.
Feist somehow makes it all seem so plausible, that when a Troll begins to menace some children under a bridge, it can make you shiver.
I won't go into detail, since the story begs to be read, but I will say that it is a gem that should not be missed.
I found the story dated and formulaic, and the ending a bit too pat and rushed.Written before there was such a term as 'urban fantasy', this book would fall into that category: beings of myth interacting with the modern world.
The author did his research, but in the end I didn't much like what he did with it.
I didn't like what he did with the mother character at all; she was not very well rounded, almost an afterthought in a lot of scenes.I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone who really loves urban or mythic fantasy.
When adding it to Goodreads I accidentally marked it as read, which led to a comment from a friend who shares my passion for Faerie.
I felt it held up well and overall certainly was an intelligent yet quite unsettling tale of the Fae. There are a few scenes worthy of The Exorcist in terms of disturbing horror involving children.
Although set firmly in late 1980s New England, Feist draws upon various strands of faerie lore including Shakespeare, the tale of Thomas the Rhymer and Scottish and Irish folklore.
A terrific, chilling tale.
I also loved the new cover art that was very reminiscent of Alan Lee's work.
Faerie Tale is one of those books, for me at least, that does not get better with age.
The first time I read it, I enjoyed it.
The second time, I couldn't remember why I liked it to begin with.
I've liked books less when I've gone back and re-read them, but not that much.
It was like watching the old, original Battlestar Galactica as a child and then re-watching it as a college student- I guess I liked the Vipers, but gosh, I didn't realize how sexist it was, and where did a prostitute learn to sky dive?My problem upon re-reading Faerie Tale was twofold.
I was a tad concerned after reading some of the comments but it's a gripping read.There were several polarised opinions on this book and I ummed and ahhed for some time before making use of free ebook lending at my local library.Raymond E Feist reads like an early Dan Brown, the characters are there primarily to move the action forward.
A minor grumble: they are a little too flush with fortune for my tastes, though this is used to great effect later on and actually makes sense by the finale.Feist sets up some scenes to discombobulate the reader early on but it's well into the first third of the book before the plot kicks into high gear.
The daughter has a trust fund in the millions, and her boyfriend is somehow also a great screenwriter in the making.
I do NOT like books that contain rape.
I DID like how the family reacted, it was a good concern for their daughter.However, they didn't seem too worried that there might be a terrible rapist running around in the woods.
The daughter has some reaction to being raped, but it is mostly her reaction to the strange faeirie happenings in the area, and NOT about her violation.The last part of the book just spiraled downward and ended about how you might expect.
Feist's "rape-fantasy period" in which he seems to relish explicitly describing the rape/abuse of his female characters.
This book appears to have been the first and was easily the worst as the female character is actually described as WANTING it to take place for a portion of the rape.
That scene alone told me more than I ever wanted to know about Raymond E.
He may have improved after that, I don't know and I haven't bothered to find out.If you want a good take on a similar theme, I recommend just about anything by Charles De Lint or Holly Black -- steer clear of this one however.
Clearly some small amount of research has gone into this and the world of Faerie is brought to life with some degree of magic.
If only the human world could have been equally lavishly rendered, but with the most tiresomely cardboard thing and wholly unengaging imitations of real people (particularly the women) I can't help but find myself rooting for the insane and twisted Erlking.
There is some magic, some shocking moments and the odd bit of engaging tension but all is very much drowned out by a writer who may well be able to craft brilliant fantasy but seems to have very little gift when it comes to setting something engagingly within the real world.

An excellent read....very close to 5 stars, but I can't really put it among my top reads. In it's favor it's a book that everyone in my family liked, and that can be said about very few books.The land of Faerie has intersected with the mundane world and the consequences can't be anything but frightening, amazing, fantastic, and at times slightly horrific.
Just laughably awful. My husband and I still both joke about this one. The author is so obviously infatuated with his main female character it makes you feel dirty reading it. He has written way better stuff. I recommend you avoid this one.
This was a great book, full of lots of beautiful details and engaging characters. It was also downright scary, so I would reccomend it to anyone who enjoys Faerie mythology, particularly the dark kind.
I love everything about this that does not make it a fantasy. Plus I think this could be a great screeplay for a horror movie.
Interesting book. We should all remember fairy tales are not sweet stories
As a fan of the fae, I'd say he does a great job of creating a creepy world that is vivid, melancholic, and disturbing.
Sets up the characters and the normal world with twinges of the odd and unsettling.
One thing I really loved about the book was its theme.(view spoiler)[ It shows how sexually preying upon youth corrupts and perverts the natural development of their own healthy drives.
I'd say no update necessary…give us a Book 2:D Today, now.
If you've read The Fever series by Karen Marie Moning, her fae are also highly sexualized, but they have a comedic quality.
Lees voor een uitgebreide review hier verder. https://jenniemeid.blogspot.nl/2017/0...Lang geleden eens gelezen. Leuke mix van moderne tijden en aanwezigheid van elfen, zoals ze in oude Europese verhalen voorkomen. Beklemmend, omdat lang onduidelijk blijft wat er aan de hand is en waarom de hoofdpersonen te maken krijgen met de elfen. Goede mix van horror en fantasy. Het lezen waard.
I really enjoyed this book! It's been on my "to read" shelf for a really long time and I'm not sure why it took me so long to get around to reading it. The story takes place in modern day but manages to wind in lots of ancient faerie mythology. It is suspenseful, exciting and interesting. I had a difficult time closing it to go to sleep at night. I highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys fantasy!
This is probably a four and a half as I was a bit disappointed at the end...however, an amazing book! Mixing the devilishness of fairies with a cheeky splendour. This countains moments of laughter, horror, and at times a feeling of something inappropriate. I would recommend to fans who love this genra, and to those who enjoy the far fetched horror of authors like Stephen King.
I used to like Feist when I was in my teens, but got quickly annoyed when formula writing got the better of him and he started pooping out two uninspired books a year. That being said, Faerie Tale is different from his usual works. I was actually pleasantly surprised by this piece of dark fantasy, which turns out to be a pretty entertaining and scary "bonfire tale".
It was this book that inspired me to adopt my "Amadan na Briona" handle. It's a great story of dark faeries interacting with the modern world that predates the current crop of crappy "urban fantasies." Technically, I suppose you could call this a "horror-fantasy," but the horror elements really aren't that horrific, though the tone of the story is somewhat dark.
