https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1011952.The_Trees_of_Prideby_G_K_Chesterton_Fiction
This is at one and the same time one of Chesterton's paradoxical mysteries and one of his most pronounced moral landscapes.
In this case, the moral landscape is dominated by some exotic trees brought from Africa to Cornwall by one of Squire Vane's ancestors, who died during the voyage.
Squire Vane angrily refuses to indulge the locals; and to set the issue at rest once and for all, he resolves to do what none of them would do, namely, go down among the trees at night.This he does, but when he disappears, the mystery begins.
Brilliant. A fascinating mystery that ultimately leads to a crucial philosophical point. Chesterton's writing requires some effort to appreciate, but few people in history possessed a greater felicity with language than he did--and even fewer possessed a greater mental alacrity. You'd be hard-pressed to find another book that packs so much into four measly chapters.
3.5 stars - good! I really enjoyed this story, but it was kind of hard for me to get through. It was written in such a way that, if I had had to pick apart the story word by word, I wouldn't have understood it. But after reading a sentence and thinking it over, I'd realize I understood the gist of it. (Does that make sense?) It was rather distracting in the beginning. (This might have been because I started this book after midnight and before I had any refreshing sleep. Once I had had some slee
(hide spoiler)]All of the "mystery" was manufactured (view spoiler)[by Squire Vane and Doctor Brown as a way to debunk and remove the peacock trees.
(hide spoiler)]In the end, I was satisfied with the story's conclusion, but I think I'd have enjoyed it more if the whole reason for it hadn't just been to (view spoiler)[get rid of the trees.
So that's another reason to give this book "only" 3.5 stars: Why include (view spoiler)[the marriage (hide spoiler)] when it didn't really matter for the story?
A fun mystery. Foreign trees planted in England. Many claim they are haunted and bring death. The owner says that is ridiculous so he goes to spend the night in the trees. He disappears. GKC writes in such a lively way. His descriptions amaze me. A short book that is very worth the read.
Upon the first meeting of the poet and the nobleman's daughter, you can guess how that's going to turn out- it's a favorite Chesterton trope.
In both essays and stories alike Chesterton asserts that the educated world doesn't believe in things like ghosts because the common person does, and because the common person does the rest reject it out of hand.
In some ways this was one of the most straight-forward mysteries I've ever read by Chesterton, with the main characters questioning suspects and gathering clues and analyzing the evidence.
There wasn't the joy and happiness that usually characterizes many of Chesterton's stories, even those stories that are murder mysteries.
I read this story immediately following "The Man Who Knew Too Much".
The author does perhaps his best job (in the stories I have read) of building up the suspense and intrigue.
With of the suspense, mystery and intrigue built up the author lets the air out of the balloon in the last chapter and the final climactic scene reminds me of the who shot JR story line on Dallas (never saw the show, but I was a big fan of I love the 80s) where the character wakes up and we realize it has all been a bad dream.
Unlike most of Chesterton's fiction that I've read (I humbly put forward that I've read quite a bit), Trees of Pride is surprisingly bare of philosophical or theological subtext. It's a pleasant change for Chesterton, if only because it demonstrates that he did not need to imbue his writing with analogy in order to entertain. The Trees of Pride is a good old fashioned murder mystery, and a good enough one that I couldn't predict the ending, as I am want to try to do. Four stars. A nice little book that would do well for a Sunday afternoon.
And his novella "The Trees of Pride" is all about the people who intentionally blind themselves to the possibitilies of the world around them.Squire Vane is one of those men who doesn't believe in much of anything, and he definitely doesn't believe any of the stories about his "peacock trees" (which the locals claim spread disease and eat people).
The three guests and the local doctor begin investigating the garden, and uncover the possibility that the squire was murdered -- but of course, things aren't that simple.Like most of G.K. Chesterton's stories, "The Trees of Pride" is based on devoutly Christian philosophy ("Squire, if there were a legend of hay fever, you would not believe in hay fever").
An entertaining short read.
It has many of the familiar "types" the Chesterton likes to work with in his fiction, such as the non-believing rationalist, the dreamy mystic, etc.
However, in the end the truth is found out not by a religious or mystical sort, but an atheist in all but name, and that by working in tandem with another non-believer.
Given Chesteton's religious leanings, I Found the final resolution to this short story entertaining and a bit surprising.
The main lesson Chesterton sought to hammer home was the dignity of the "little people" and the potential truth in commonly-held beliefs, a familiar reprise of these themes found elsewhere in Chesterton's fiction.
A quick, entertaining read.
The wit and wordplay of Chesterton is one of the reasons I enjoy reading his works so much, this being no exception. The story draws one in and the ending, while it may have crossed your mind, will still be unpredictable. I would have given this book 4 stars, but there are other Chesterton works that are better (particularly The Man Who Knew Too Much, or The CLub of Queer Trades) in the same amount or less writing.I would certainly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys wordplay, mysteries, and thoughtful characters.
Another classic G.K. Chesterton mystery. In the public domain, with a free electronic copy here.
It has been impossible for me to find a bad Chesterton book. This one is a great short read that still makes you think about how people perceive other people's beliefs and how they inconsistently take leaps of faith in some aspects and they regard others as superstitious.
Great ReadI chose this rating because I love GK Chesterton and have read many of his books. It was a real page turner.
Power of superstition and its influence in how we believe and disbelieve reality around us.
I really enjoyed this book. Chesterton is such fantastic writer! I liked all the different examples of superstition and pride, even in those who believed they didn't have either.
Wonderfully entertaining. A satisfying little old-school mystery.
Wonderful 4-chapter murder mystery. Very standard Chesterton; he manages to be poetic and romantic and a bit of a mystic and then bait-and-switch the reader with a quite rational, scientific ending.
Figuras fantásticas: Ent o árbol viviente.
A nice little mystery from the author of the Father Brown series.
