https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5944919-the-paradise-mystery
What I didn't like;► Dr Ransford talking to himself at the beginning to show his feelings► Some pages could have done with a bit of pruning► Above all, I don't think Fletcher played fair with the reader.
There was no way I could have guessed the solution to the mystery.But (& even with spoiler tags, gentle reader, I can't tell you why!) what I loved was the character of Boyce!
The way the book was structured around him was the most novel literary device I have seen in a long time.
I have never read anything by J.S. Fletcher before this was chosen by a book group I belong to, and, as it is a very early mystery – even by Golden Age standards – first published in 1921, I was worried that I would find it very dated.
In one house lives Dr Mark Ransford, who is the guardian of Mary and Dick Bewery.
That morning, Mr Bryce also meets a man who comes to Dr Ransford’s house and is later killed – apparently thrown from the Cathedral to his death.What follows is largely Bryce’s investigation into the events, as he suspects Dr Ransford of being involved in the death.
At times I seemed to lose the story but never for very long. And it certainly enthused toward the end.
Fletcher certainly knows how to spin a good mystery.
Written in 1921 this mystery is of course dated, but that is part of the charm and reading delight of this book.
A wonderful intricate plot that at times had me taking a step back so that I could take a few minutes to tie the strings together.
Absolutely no way to be my own detective in solving the deaths that happen and yet the wrapping up in the final pages is all based on a solid story.
A shocking ending that I never saw coming, likeable and quirky characters, a great book to pick up and get lost in.
This was my second book by J.S.Fletcher, and I will definitely be reading more. There's a man flung from the top of a cathedral, then another murder (supposedly to cover up the first one), lots of behind the scenes investigation into burial and marriage records, questionable parentage, questionable motives, changed names, poisonings, twists and turns galore. Quite an exciting mystery.
Fletcher doing what he does best - hidden identities, mysterious secrets, grasping characters you love to hate...
The Paradise is not what you'd think, reading the title.
"Paradise" is the ancient name for an enclosure in the Close of Wrychester, one of Britain's most beautiful medieval Cathedrals.
The "Paradise" close is otherworldly, full of ancient tombs and gravestones.
Among the houses in the Close is that of bachelor Dr. Mark Ransford and his two twenty-year-old wards, whose parentage is mysterious to most.
But Ransford must tell his wards the truth of their heritage.
Before he can do that, an unwelcome visitor is found nearby from a broken neck due to a forty-foot fall, mystery thickens.I can say no more without revealing details which you'll learn from yourself when reading "The Paradise Mystery."
Secret longings for a character you may despise while reading this book, no matter how artfully devious he may be, to meet with his own reward eventuates. When does that happen? This was just my second Fletcher mystery and he did not show quite as much humor, but it broke out now and then when describing certain characters. I shall keep reading his mystery books since I downloaded quite a few from Amazon, all free. Great reading!
A rather interesting and quite complex classic mystery encompassing a murder which occurs in a quiet cathedral town and involving a myriad of characters all of which keep the reader quite puzzled throughout...
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/5308/5...
audio Librivox Someone dies. Murder? Someone knew too much so he gets bumped off. All signs seem to point to the doctor.
What a puzzler! It's fast moving, have a multitude of twists, and a really good solution. The perfect book for a long trip.
This book has one of those main characters that you"love to hate." Bryce is egotistical, self-centered, feels he can do no wrong, and that if he tries hard enough and is ruthless enough, he can get anything he wants - including a woman who has no interest in him.
The ending of the book is a bit deux ex machina, a Greek phrase I learned when studying Greed theatre.
It means that a god comes from a machine and solves the problem.
(As their were many gods in classical Greek times and they constantly solved problems for ordinary people, this made sense in that time.) However, here in our modern context the ending seemed artificial.
This book is hard for me to rate. It started out really interesting but after a bit it wandered around and I was unsure if it was worth the effort to continue. I stuck it out and the closer it got to the end the better it got. There ended up being quite a few characters to keep track of and some of the clues seem to come out of nowhere. I would actually rate this book 3.5 stars but that would prevent me from reading another book by J. S. Fletcher so I will give it 4 stars.
All the elements of an historical novel.Mystery in the English countryside. Descriptions bring clear mental images of life at the close of the 19th century, and the pace at which solutions developed before the advent of technology.
Well written, with fascinating plot twists.I enjoyed it.
Supur coolGood read good story line . good language. Very good ending . not my choice but good. Another countryside English mystery
The Paradise Mysteryby J.S. FletcherAn interesting read.Super mystery story.
He sets out to investigate the case for his own reasons as he wants to marry his erstwhile employer's ward - Mary - who wants nothing to do with him.The book follows Bryce's investigations the death and he believes he is in the confidence of the police though it is clear to the reader that this may not be the case.
I did enjoy reading the book even though I found it difficult to get into at first and I think it has stood the test of time quite well.
Another provincial town story set in a cathedral close much beloved of English crime writers of the period and their readers alike.An unusual story with no particular detective or main protagonist.
This seemed a bit strange but I enjoyed it nevertheless.I would have given it four stars if there hadn't been some quite key elements of the story left glaringly unexplained.
To detail these would go a long way to giving the game away.I think J.S. Fletcher is sadly neglected these days especially as his books all appear to be in the public domain and can mostly be downloaded for free.
Now here's a mystery that walks to a different drummer. You're not going to get what you think you're going to get. True, the secondary characters are thin? not well developed? not developed at all? and the end is a bit harsh in my opinion, but Fletcher is not only a good writer, he knows [knew really] how to tell a tale.
another detective book written by JS Fletcher. I didnt feel this was as good as the others of his that I have read. the plot and mystery developed well but deflated very quickly in the last few pages. It was as if he didnt know how to end it.
3.5*(view spoiler)[I think that I was disappointed that Bryce wasn't the murderer because he was such a slimy arrogant toad!! Though I suppose he did get his just deserts in the end (is it just desserts or just deserts?). (hide spoiler)]I found this a fun quick read and will read more by this author.
Complex 1920s mystery with lots of twists and turns
Enjoyable yarn, good mysteryRansford and Mary are sympathetic protagonists, Bryce a complex polyglot, and all charters are believable, as is this engaging story.
Another excellent page turner.
A different twist on the usual amateur detective.
I did not care for this book. I like turn of the century romances. But I guess I don't like turn of the century forensics!
Enjoyed the story. Found that some of the information was inserted rather late , as an afterthought maybe. Will definitely read more of this author
