https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42466.Indian_Captive
The new cover makes it look all modern (and kinda creepy, actually), but the story is old.It's based on the true story of Mary "Molly" Jemison, who was captured and then adopted by Seneca Indians.
But considering when it was written, I'd say that it's pretty remarkable that a book this kind to an Indian tribe that kidnapped a young white girl and killed her family was even published.Is it the most compelling book ever?
It's based on the true story of Mary Jemison, a pioneer girl who as taken captive by the Senecas around the age of 13.
Still, this doesn't really take away from the story because the question becomes not "will she stay?" but "will her broken heart and longing for home ever heal and how?" Mary (or Molly as she is called throughout much of the book) very realistically struggles between conflicting feelings of anger and bitterness at being held captive and being "made into an Indian" and growing love and respect for her new Seneca family.
Published in 1941, this book is more than 70 years old--how would its treatment of Native Americans, for one, translate to today's sensibilities and politically correct emphasis?
This is a wonderful novel based on the true story of a young girl taken captive by Indians the day before her family was killed by the same group of Indians; after two years in captivity with the Seneca Indians, Molly Jemison, aka Corn Tassel, chose to stay with them.
I've labeled it historical fiction partly because I think it would be shelved with fiction in a traditional library; it's really closer to a biography covering 2 years of Mary/Molly Jemison's extraordinary life.
Indian Captive is one of my favorite Newbery Honor Awards book especially while studying early American history.
In this classic Newbery Honor Award book, Lois Lenski authentically reconstructs the fascinating story of Mary Jemison's capture, flight, and early years with the Seneca Indians.
Lenski has brought her special talents for research, for writing, and for drawing to this true American story of a white girl's life among Native Americans.The real Mary Jemison, at the age of 80, told her memories of her experiences in detail to James Everett Seaver, M.D., and the book was first published at Canandaigua, NY in 1824.
This white person would be scalped with the scalp presented to the lost Indian's family, or the captive would be presented to the family so that they could decide to torture him or her to death or to raise him or her in place of their lost loved one.
Mary Jemison was lucky: her Indian family decided to raise her as their own.
Several years after she first came to the Indians, Mary was offered the choice of leaving to resume living with the "pale-faces" (though she had learned by this time that her family had been murdered a day or two after she was separated from them).
It had valuable and interesting info on what daily life was like in an Indian village.
I got tired of reading that "she was a white girl in an Indian village" which was repeated often in the first half of the book.
I looked up her story in her own words on the internet and skimmed it.
Search "Mary Jemison" and "Seaver" (the one who wrote down her story).
Her childhood (the story of Indian Captive) was less than a chapter long, so the author's admitting she took liberties with the real story was an understatement.
Indian Captive: The Story of Mary Jemison is based on a true story. The book reads fast and guides the reader through Molly’s emotions as a captive of the Seneca people. I highly recommend reading it to middle grade age kids.
I've read this about 3 times
Based on the true story of Mary Jemison, Indian Captive is a powerful powerful novel because....-of the strong theme of tension between the English and the American Indians.
She rarely explicitly states, 'Mary thought'.
The thought process of the character is the running arc of the story, and I totally got inside Mary's head without Lenski using any of those overused verb disclaimers.
Mary's emotions were very realistic and well stated.
Yet it is at the end, the beautiful end, well prepared by Lenski, that we see how she has led us, all along, through the entire story to this point!
I normally don't review the books I read for school, but I actually liked this one so I decided "why not?"The story plunges head first into the main event of the novel.
I kinda wished he stayed, because at that time in the book, Molly was the only real character.Then Molly gets to the Seneca village.
Beaver Girl was a nice touch, because she was really the only one besides Turkey Feather who wanted to be Molly's friend.
Oddly, I don't think Molly ever took to Beaver Girl, and just admired her pots instead of being her friend.After a while of reading, I really wanted to live Indian-like.
Mary Jemison (also called Molly) is 12 and lives in Pennsylvania with her family.
But choosing to leave or stay is not as easy as Molly thought it would be.This book is based on the true story of Mary Jemison.
It seems more modern, especially when you consider the author didn't make the Indians the bad guys.
I can only imagine how hard it must have been to be suddenly taken from your family.It was a good book that made me cry a few times.
I really want to learn more about Mary Jemison's life now, thanks to this book.
This remarkable book is based on the true story of the capture of Mary Jemison by Seneca Indians.
Lois Lenski researched Seneca culture and read Mary's memoirs in preparation for writing this fictionalized account.
It's also a very insightful look at the complex psychological journey that Mary makes as she adapts to life in a new culture, and for me, this was the outstanding feature of the book.
Even as Mary begins to experience moments of happiness and affection in her new life, she continues to be bitterly homesick and then, over time, continues to be sort of wistfully so.
This book helped me learn about the time period by showing a white girls point of view as an Native American captive.
Also there was no action to keep a reader interested, there was hardly even a plot.In "Indian Captive: The Story of Mary Jemison" An young girl named Molly and her family are captured by Indians when they burn down her house.
Molly has to walk much further and is told she will never see her family again.
There she stays a captive and is taken in by a Native American family.
I gave it 3 stars. The kids however gave it 4.5-5 stars. They loved the characters and the Seneca way of life and played lots of pretend games based on the story. I thought it was an interesting story, especially that it was based on an actual person, however the fact that some significant details were changed to make it more palatable for children meant that it was difficult for me to see it as a true story and therefore a bit less believable. So I could appreciate aspects of Seneca culture &am
The kids however gave it 4.5-5 stars.
They loved the characters and the Seneca way of life and played lots of pretend games based on the story.
I thought it was an interesting story, especially that it was based on an actual person, however the fact that some significant details were changed to make it more palatable for children meant that it was difficult for me to see it as a true story and therefore a bit less believable.
So I could appreciate aspects of Seneca culture & some interesting differences in the way they raise children and view the world.
I read this book aloud to my son and thus became interested in the life of Mary Jemison, so I read her book "The Narrative of Mary Jemison." (a public domain book) It is good to read them in conjuction so you can see where Lois Lenski takes liberties.
The biggest liberty she takes is that she goes on and on and ON about Mary's "yellow" hair like a "corn tassel." In fact, the Indians name her corn tassel because they admire her blonde hair so much.In reality, her hair was light brown, NOT yellow.
Quite enjoyable--perhaps more so the second time 'round.(Read it for the first time as a child.) Lois Lenski was an author I wrote to as part of an assignment for school when I was in the 3rd or 4th grade. I was so thrilled when she wrote back, sending me book marks for several of the books she had written. As it turns out, she died only a year or two after I had written to her.
This is a great book, and Molly is defiantly a brave girl. Someone i'd like to meet with God someday. Indian Captive: The Story of Mary Jemison
The book was slow to start but did have a captivating plot. This historical fiction book gave readers an accurate depiction of what life was like during the 1700s.
I read this several times when I was a kid, fascinated by the story of a girl who ended up living with the Indians in western New York State, where I grew up. I still love this story.
This book was really fascinating! It made me ponder. It was a very remarkable story.
This was a good introduction to Mary Jemison and her life.
One of my favorites growing up.
This was an amazing book!Its very interesting and informative.
While all 3 narratives feature female heroines who are given the chance to return home after they are involuntarily taken into captivity, only 1 decides to return to English life - the other 2 decide to remain with their Indian captors.These novels raise many questions about Stockholm syndrome, cultural conditioning, reintroduction to society, values, and the definition of family.
A hostage's belief in the humanity of their captor, for the reason that  when a victim holds the same values as the aggressor, they cease to  be perceived as a threatwould also lead to interesting discussions, as would a study of the French and Indian War and how it led to the American Revolution.
Another book set on the frontier in colonial America during the French and Indian War. The Jemison farm is attacked by Indians (Seneca) and the family is taken prisoner along with a neighbor family.
It covers approximately 2 years in Molly's life: from her capture to her decision to remain with the Seneca (which may actually have occurred later in her life than established by this novel).
Was it just the knowledge that she had no family to return to but she did have family among the Seneca?
I was totally fixated on this question for half the book and is why it gets 3.5 stars.
Again, I know this is a YA book tackling some tough matter, but it seemed to be handled a bit too tritely (said the middle-age reader).
Also, there are some sweeping statements about Native Americans that I wouldn't want to leave unaddressed if my kids were to read this independently in the next few years given how easily they are influenced by stories at this age, often making some sweeping judgements themselves when we encounter books like this that do not offer a more complete look at history (yes, like a LOT of books).
This is an interesting tale of a real life girl captured by the Seneca and her decision to stay with them.
It was written for a young audience in 1941 and certainly is coloured by the views of men and women's positions in the world that were common at that time, and at the time of Mary Jemison.
I must find my copy of John Demos' book The Unredeemed Captive, which is about another white girl captured by the Iroquois, at the Eastern end of their territory and compare the two accounts!
The Unredeemed Captive is a more scholarly account written for adults, and will no doubt provide an interesting contrast.
This is the story of Mary "Molly" Jemison who was captured by the Seneca Indians when she was very young.
While reading, I couldn't help but be amazed by how much strength Molly Jamison must have had to endure her capture and eventually love her captors.
The themes of family, love, and belonging are so prevalent in this book, and it made for such a beautiful telling of this woman's story.
This book deals with the frequently overlooked Native American perspective on the French and Indian War. It would be nice to allow students to read this and discuss various perspectives in history.
Indian Captive was a decent book about a girl named Molly taken captive by Indians in eastern Pennsylvania.
In my opinion, the book is decent but it feels a bit empty in some parts because it just details Molly’s chores in the Indian villages.
Overall if you do want to read this I recommend that you read it if you desire to read about a little bit of Indian culture and want to see how a person grows accustomed to a new family.
I personally would not recommend it to myself due to some parts that are a bit dull in my opinion.
I always feel weird recommending this book, because the title and the fact that it was written by a white person makes it seem as if this book will constantly paint Native Americans in a negative light.
In actual history, it was common for white captives to deny returning to white society and this story really shows why someone wouldn't want to go back to their previous life.Small tangent aside, this book is amazing and I think everyone should read it.
I read this multiple times throughout my childhood until the book was ruined (water + books = disaster), but I recently bought another copy and the story is just as wonderful as I remember.
