https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/601799.Laura
Waldo Lydecker is also in love with Laura.
The lovely Gene Tierney is cast as Laura in the 1944 movie.He helped her get started, and her career has seen a steady climb because of her association with Waldo.
One thing that Mark McPherson and Waldo Lydecker can agree on is that he is not the man either one of them would choose for Laura.
Laura describes Shelby, showing that she is well aware of his faults: ”My people were plain folk; the women went West with their men and none of them found gold.
Caspary used an unique narrative structure to create an atmospheric and involving mystery which has stood the test of time.The story revolves around Detective Mark McPherson's investigation into the murder of Laura Hunt.
Caspary also allows the reader to feel McPherson's frustration with the pretty-boy, Shelby Carpenter.
But Caspery is smart enough to let us see into a woman's heart as well, and make us understand.On a rainy night in Laura's swanky 5th Avenue walk-up apartment, while McPherson sits underneath her painting looking through her diary, searching for a clue to her murder, Caspary suddenly turns an already great mystery-romance novel into a classic.
McPherson must start not only with the careful investigation of the crime scene, but also with interviewing Laura's closest associates : fashionable writer, critic and socialite Waldo Lydecker and marketing executive Shelby Carpenter, the victim's fiancee.Most of us are familiar with the story from the Otto Premminger classic movie of the same name.
The story is narrated succesively by each of the main characters, offering us clues in the manner they describe the victim and their relationship with her (view spoiler)[ later Laura Hunt herself takes up the narrative giving us her own take on the drama and on her motivations  (hide spoiler)] .
Another, older, man is also in love with her, but to Laura, he's just a valued friend.Much of this we learn in retrospect, because as the book opens, Laura's housekeeper comes to work one Saturday morning, opens the door, and finds Laura lying on the floor, dead from a shotgun blast.
Before long, he's investigating the murder by day and hanging around her home at night, inhaling the lingering scent of Laura's perfume.As the above would suggest, this is clearly a book with deep psychological issues at its center.
Caspary used a unique narrative structure to create an atmospheric and involving novel of mystery and romance which has stood the test of time.The story revolves around Detective Mark McPherson's investigation into the murder of Laura Hunt.
But Caspery is smart enough to let us see into a woman's heart as well, and make us understand.On a rainy night in Laura's swanky 5th Avenue walk-up apartment, while McPherson sits underneath her painting looking through her diary, searching for a clue to her murder, Caspary suddenly turns an already great mystery-romance novel into a classic.
During the mystery, he relies on the advice and personal insight of one of her mentor and friends, Waldo Lydecker, and shines his suspicious light on her fiancé, Shelby Carpenter.More than just a simple mystery, the story utilizes an unusual narrative style that goes from Mark’s point of view to McPherson’s, then back again, throwing in a few others for spice.
Mark becomes more entranced with the character of Laura as he learns about her – through viewing the impressions she’s left on others (like paintings), to learning of her life and through her apartment, through the dedication she’s brought out of her many admirers and suitors.
This story doesn’t stay a straight mystery and it doesn’t hold off on the punches for changing the entire direction of it mid-point.
Once other characters start talking, you realize that Lydecker is indeed supposed to be obnoxious; the other voices are - well, different, anyway - and Caspary starts to subvert noir tropes, particularly the femme fatale and the virgin / whore stuff that hardboiled detectives enjoy so much.It's weird, though, she subverts those tropes partly by falling into different tropes - romance tropes.
Caspary seems to be writing a book that's dressed like noir but plays like save-the-princess wish fulfillment."You don't talk like a detective, either.""Neither hardboiled nor scientific?"We laughed.
Some books, like The Ghost and Mrs Muir, suffer in comparison to their movie counterpart.
Other books, like the Somerset Maugham's incredible novel, The Painted Veil, are actually enhanced by their movie twin.For Vera Caspary's Laura, I would honestly call the enjoyment I found in both mediums more of a draw.
The movie is 40's chic; streamlined and mesmerizing in it's appeal.
The book has a grittier feel, and adds character depth not found in the movie.
She's that good.I would centainly recommend Laura for fans of the movie or fans of 1940's literature.
Those who come after us may find it easier to assert independence, but will miss the grand adventure of having been born a woman in this century of change."Born in Chicago in 1898 to a middle-class secular Jewish family, Caspary was inspired as a young girl to become a writer when she met her friend's aunt, a published author.
That year she published her magnum opus Thicker than Water, a 425-page autobiographical saga chronicling the trials and tribulations, conundrums and prejudices of a Sephardic Jewish family living in Chicago in the early twentieth century.By the end of her career (she died in 1987), Caspary had written eighteen novels, countless stories, plays, screenplays, and treatments from which twenty-four movies were made, including Joseph Mankiewicz's Letter to Three Wives (1949), Fritz Lang's The Blue Gardenia (1953), and George Cukor's Les Girls (1957).
I have watched the movie Laura (1944) so many times that even my absent-minded mother has begun to object.
Mark McPherson, played by Dana Andrews, is staring at the portrait of Laura and falling in love with her even though he thinks she is dead that wins my heart every time.
Lines were delivered in different settings and certain, critical scenes from the movie are non-existent in the book.
But...I'm going to try very hard to separate myself from the beloved movie and think of this book as a book completely separate from the film.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~This is one of my all-time favorite movies and I am now discovering IT IS ALSO A BOOK?!??!?!?!
Pleasant who-dunnit about a NYPD detective who, on probing the murder of a young woman, falls in love with her.
.. is Laura really dead, after all?
Who wants her dead and will he/she strike again?So this was good, I enjoyed it, but I enjoyed Vera Caspary's book "Bedelia" much more.
"Bedelia" was highly atmospheric and you experienced the story at the same time as the characters, whereas in "Laura" we have a police investigation after the fact.
But give it a go, it's a pleasant enough way to spend a few hours.CONTENT: Mild PG PROFANITY: D,B
A very interesting book!
I was talked into reading "Laura" by a friend who is an old movie buff and found an original 1942 version.
It was like traveling back in time to solve a murder!
The murder mystery itself has some really great twists and turns that, while one might guess the culprit, make the journey to the end a constant surprise!I'm told the movie made from the book changed some of the plot.
I've never figured why this is done when the original story is so good.
Guess I'll have to track the classic down and discover for myself!
Το συγκεκριμένο νουάρ της Βέρα Κάσπαρι το γνώριζα από τις διάφορες λίστες με τα καλύτερα νουάρ μυθιστορήματα παλαιότερων δεκαετιών στις οποίες το βρίσκει κανείς, αλλά δεν ήξερα ότι κάποτε είχε μεταφραστεί στα ελληνικά από τις εκδόσεις Λυχνάρι, μέχρι που το πέτυχα σε παλαιοβιβλιοπωλείο πριν δυο-τρεις μέρες.
Μάλιστα, μπορεί να πει κανείς ότι είναι κάτι παραπάνω από ένα απλό νουάρ μυθιστόρημα μυστηρίου, μιας και η συγγραφέας ασχολείται και με τις σχέσεις μεταξύ των δυο φύλων, εμμέσως πλην σαφώς.
Επίσης, δεν μπορεί να παραβλέψει κανείς τον τρόπο αφήγησης της όλης ιστορίας, που είναι αρκετά ιδιαίτερος, τόσο για το είδος όσο και για την εποχή που γράφτηκε το βιβλίο.
I immediately bought it because, as we all know, books are always better than the films.
I enjoyed the book so much that I've attempted to force it upon everyone I know that likes to read.
(I used to try the same with the movie but I am quite literally the only person I know that is willing to sit through a film that is void of color.) A few of my friends borrowed it and returned it with the same general "it's not for me" review.
That was actually one of my favorite things about this book.
I've had this on my reading radar for ages so was very glad to see this available for kindle. Would best describe this as hard boiled noir. I enjoy when the view of the character presenting the story is unreliable to say the least. Couldn't say that I particularly "liked" the characters or their actions but they were certainly well presented. As for the mystery component itself, it was fairly easy to work out who the murderer must have been. Loved the setting of New York in the 1940's. A classic of unrequited love and obsession.
Buena novela de intriga psicológica en la que se nos van desvelando los personajes a base de diferentes voces. El crimen no es más que una excusa para describir el papel de una mujer trabajadora con éxito, independiente, y su relación con el resto en una sociedad que no admite fácilmente ese rol. Muy clásica de factura, se sigue bien la trama, y aunque los personajes son bastante estereotipados, la autora los utiliza con soltura y no se hace pesada en las descripciones.Eso sí, el amor triunfa después de todo.
A woman is murdered in her apartment, leaving behind a detective to pick up the pieces...and to fall in love with a woman he can never possess.A nice, melancholy noir, given from several well-defined POVs..
As I see it, Laura, the novel or the film, can be considered noir if we consider that the hero is Waldo Lydecker, not Mark McPherson.
McPherson is the hero of the conventional love story aspect, the good-looking but sensitive man who is not rich as Laura is, and whom she accepts as a member of the working class despite the misgivings of Waldo, her fairy godfather who in this “proletariat Cinderella story” (as Caspary called it) deglamorizes every man she takes an interest in.
The book and the film differ from each other somewhat, but that’s to be expected.
Laura, the heroine, is ultimately wooed by three different men.
Clearly, though, the book is not necessarily about Laura, but about the men in her life.
Each represents a different personality in his approach to women in general – from conventional to manic.
The novel was more of a psychoanalytic approach to the relationship between the sexes than it was a suspense.
I’m sure that the book will long be read, but, I suspect, because of its relationship with the film rather than on any merits of its own.
"Laura" is one of the best examples of the classic noir mystery novel.
The story itself and the writing are equally captivating.
The characters are well fleshed out.
"Laura's" plotline is colorful as well as complex, but not too difficult to follow.
The big screen adaptation of "Laura" is much better known than the book.
I saw the film before I read the book but even though I knew the outcome, I greatly enjoyed the novel.
It is just as glamorous and entertaining as the iconic film.
This is a fascinating read for mystery lovers and fans of popular fiction in general.
This is one of my all time favorite mysteries. I have owned three editions of it. While the book is entitled Laura, it is really about the three men in her life. Laura as seen through the eyes and descriptions of these three men. Ultimately it the twist in this mystery that makes it memorable. A twist that has been copies many times. I highly recommend it to any murder fans.
Sometimes I like to read a mystery set in a specific time and written in that time.
I don't get the idea that books like this are criticized as being 'dated;' what else would they be?
Any book written in a time, and set in that time, are going to soon be dated.
(I read an article about a book written in 2014, which, unfortunately, the critic said, was 'so dated.') Ummm, come on...Anyhow, it's the story of Laura, killed by a shotgun blast to the head when she opens her door.
Because Kienie gave it five stars, and it was written by a woman, and it might be as smart (not the right word? clever? appealing to me though I'm not a fan of modern mysteries or thrillers) as the detective stories by Fredric Brown.
Possibly 2 1/2 stars. I disliked the style of Part One intensely. The twist was something of a cliche and the ending was predictable. Nor did I find it very atmospheric, which is surely the point of noir. Disappointing.
I thought Laura, the book that inspired the famous film would be similar to, say Chandler’s The Big Sleep, but obviously written by a woman.How wrong I was!
Laura is just as atmospheric as The Big Sleep, there’s twists and turns but the narrative style is completely different.
Laura is made up of five parts, four parts are first person narrative and one part is a stenographic report of the statement made by Shelby J Carpenter.The first narrative voice is that of Waldo Lydecker and it took me a while to work out that Caspary’s style wasn’t pedantic and pompous.
The character Laura is very much the antithesis of Bedelia.for the time period, the character is quite unconvetional--the working woman, who, by being independent of men, puts herself in danger within society in an intrinsic way.
She's not only in danger physically as the motives for murder are unwound, but also reputation-wise, which is also a horror of the time-period.The majority of voices which narrate each section is male, and each is distinct in vocabulary in tone.
My favorite section puts me in mind of Megan Abbott--very sensual--the colors and flavors of the moments are vivid.
Some might be more familiar with the Otto Preminger film noir by the same name. This is one of the few instances where the film outshines the book, but only because I adore Gene Tierney and much prefer the ending re-written for the film.The novel, in its own right is a taught, exceptionaly, well-written, psycho-thriller. Dare I say, literary-pulp.
Here's one good reason why the movie, Laura, is so great. The novel is so great.
Fantástico, de lo mejor que he leído en negra. Y la película es magistralhttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
Laura earned Otto Preminger's 1944 film adaptation an Academy Award and lasting renown as on the the greatest film noire.Film noir, the genre of movies characterizing the film made of this work and many others, as been described as "oneiric, strange, erotic, ambivalent and cruel."Reading this book was like drinking a dirty martini - brisk, delicious, an exercise in savor faire, salty, meant to be savored but sipped to quickly to be enjoyed fully the first time.
One week after the murder, while at that apartment, McPherson experiences a tremendous shock in the plot twist that will shape the tension of the story.Many of Caspary's works are out of print though available thru Alibris.
