https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5969.A_Sparrow_Falls
By doing so, I began to recognise the tricks that the author employs to achieve his incredibly exciting style of story-telling.This story, which begins in the trenches in France during the First World War, continues in South Africa during the period of labour troubles in the goldmines of the Witwatersrand in 1922 before moving on to the story of a game reserve in the Zulu lands of Natal.Episodes of nail-biting excitement are separated by over-detailed descriptions of romantic intimacy and also less interesting interludes.
I was amazed that he managed to survive from beginning to the end of this long novel.A thread of interesting South African history is woven into the story, but somehow I felt that the whole novel was more contrived than it needed to be.I will read more of Wilbur Smith, but maybe not for a while!
My 200th posted review for 2015!In this, the concluding novel in the Sean Courtney collection, Smith moves the powerful man aside and offers the reader a new focus in the young Mark Anders.
As Smith brings the Sean Courtney story to a conclusion, he has only just begun laying the groundwork for the explosive second collection of Courtney novels, in which future generations will surely see the country become cesspool of racism on the African continent.
A must-read novel and series by any curious reader.Over this short three-novel series, Smith has created the foundation for a wonderful series that places South Africa at its centre.
The characters are vibrant and you either hate or love them.The plot is on fire sucking the reader into a series of exciting events that are constantly surprising.
The reader finds him/herself trying to predict outcomes with partial success, only to be surprised by unexpected twists.
Try to read the Wilbur Smith Novels in order, not essential but more enjoyable.
Even though names and events have been assumed/changed the book is relatively accurate in capturing the spirit of South Africa.
I found it fascinating to read descriptions of the places where I grew up.
Smith shows a vast knowledge of South African and World War I through his description and naming of props and settings.
There were also vast wastelands of exposition that told me how I was to view the characters.
I wanted to yell out, "Don't tell me they had a meaningful conversation that drew them closer together; show me!" If the flat characters were given depth (or cut entirely) and if the exposition was cut down, the novel would be half its length but twice as good.
Give me a book where Smith uses only his talent and cuts the fat.
With the story of Sean and Garry virtually tied up at the end of A SOUND OF THUNDER, the previous instalment, the plot in this one introduces a new central protagonist who brings freshness to the saga.Despite being a great deal longer than the first two books, A SPARROW FALLS is never less than unputdownable.
The action scenes are superby described as always, and the ending manages to be both powerful, tragic and fitting.
Add to the mix Mark Anders, who Sean met in the trenches of WW1 and treats like the son he never had in Dirk; and his beautiful but tempestuous and very proud Storm Courtney with which Mark has an almost star-crossed relationship, and there you have it.I enjoyed this book, but for anyone who has read an amount of Wilbur Smith books I think they would probably agree with me that his writing noticeably developed over the years.Worth reading none-the-less.
A Sparrow Falls follows on from The Sound of Thunder and because I did not relate to the later, i found myself hesitant to read A Sparrow Falls.
I was also pleased that the hero of the book, Mark Anders, did not succomb to the same fate as Sean Courtney in life and in love.
I was drawn to the character and preferred him to Sean purely because he had less greed and more compassion.
I often found myself getting angry with Sean Courtney as a result of his reckless behaviour.
In this 3rd book of the Courtney Series, two Courtney men go to war in France, but only one returns.
The trip home aboard ship turns into a life and death struggle for the newest Courtney and we see parts of Africa I've never even heard of.
All the characters are memorable and I've already started The Burning Shore.
***Note: If you've never read a Courtney book and want to read them chronologically, books #9,10,and11 are prequels to the others, just written later.
I had read 4 books before I realized this.
So start with Birds of Prey to begin in the 1600s with the first Courtney.
Great book and it would have to be because it's over 600 pages. It holds you captive from the first page to the last and has it all. Action, wonderful descriptive, love, a hero to absolutely love.
Thanks again for new charactersSadly, saying goodbye to others
Following on from Sound of Thunder we follow the Courtney family as they fight their way through the First World War but this time we focus on Mark Anders, the son that Sean Courtney never had but always wanted.
As the fighting comes to end, Mark returns home to find that other members of the Courtney family have destroyed everything he loves, triggering his quest for revenge that leads to his falling in love with the (rather spoilt) Storm Courtney and places himself in the middle of the South African workers war that leads to the country being turned on its head.
Jakhalzen van het paradijs is het derde en tevens laatste deel van de Courtney-trilogie.
Sean, die inmiddels generaal geworden is, ontmoet tijdens de loopgravenoorlog in Frankrijk de jonge soldaat Mark Anders met wie hij later vriendschap sluit.
Na de oorlog worden Sean en Mark in Johannesburg geconfronteerd met een stakingsoproer die ternauwernood de kop wordt ingedrukt.
Net als in de voorgaande delen weet Wilbur Smith ook in dit deel de aandacht van de lezer vast te houden met het boeiende en vlot geschreven verhaal dat nergens verveelt.
Met de drie boeken over het wel en wee van de Courtney-familie heeft Smith een uitstekende trilogie neergezet.
There's something both romantic and tragic about stories set in Africa, and Wilbur really got me in with this one, largely through his passionate Mark Anders character.
It’s a reminder that life isn’t black and white, and that it’s easily lost, be it human, animal or environmental.
For such a splendid animal, death was a shabby bargain.” “Pungushe saw the thing break in him at last.
The cold stillness of hatred and guilt and horror broke, and Mark began to cry, hacking tearing sobs that scoured and purged.
It is a difficult thing for a man to watch another weep, especially if that man is your friend.”
The storytelling here is outstanding.Continued onward with 'The Sound of Thunder' where I struggled a bit with some parts.
All in all a very good book again and I read the 'A Sparrow Falls' with renewed and restored appetite for Mr Smiths story about The Courtney family.Not disappointed at all!
:) There are parts in this book that had me rooting for developments that, I can imagine, would made a shrink want to see me on a regular basis!I got so involved with the characters that they followed me into my dreams - that, I think, is as good a review as any!
It's been many years since I Last read a Wilbur Smith NovelThis is still only my second!
I Can't remember what the firstone was, But I do remember not enjoying it.
So it was with a lotof doubt I approached this one.
Maybe the 30 odd years that have passedhelped me understand the vivid Picture Wilbur Smith paints a lot betterBut I'd like to think it's the way the story flowed!
Fast paced & always sowell written, If you're a Wilbur Smith Fan, you'll Know, If like me you mightneed a bit of prompting, then go for it!
After loving the first and reading the second within a week I decided to end the first set of Courtney Trilogy with A Sparrow Falls.Ranked lower than my previous two Smith books but still thoroughly enjoyable.It took a different tone in my opinion compared to the other two, the adventure and style was certain still there however in my opinion it grew and changed from the previous two. Maybe I was still nostalgic of reading the other two from Sean Courtney's perspective but this book is fantastic none the less.
After reading the first two books in this series, I had high hopes for this one! But it was fairly disappointing. It continues the saga of the Courtney family, but the story line this time was quite predictable and a bit boring. I couldn't connect with any of the characters and only kept reading because I hoped it would get better. I did enjoy the wildlife and nature descriptions of Chaka's Gate and fantasizing about how the country's wildlife preserves may have come to pass. Note: graphic sexual content throughout the book
Wilbur Smith does it again. I love this story. Wilbur Smith makes an amazing tale full of setting descriptions that I could I see in my mind. Beautiful, wonderful, intense and wild settings and characters. The characters came to life and were easy to love and hate. Some characters instantly become heroes. There is a life lesson that if you are patient and don't take revenge, you maybe just come out ahead. I immediately went out and purchased the next few books in the series.
After 100 pages, when author tells the age of protagonist, then this novel is really some heavy stuff to be read. His descriptions of Storm and Mark cannot be written any better. Reading out lion and lioness making out and sharing their quarry, fails any telecast by Discovery channel. If Dirk had been a real life character then he would have won Oscar for best Villain every year. It's like I am at loss after finishing the novel. Long live Africa!!
I loved the imagery and the details of historical events as they happed to the characters. I was torn between rating the book a 3 or 4. A more accurate score from my perspective is 3.75. I have enjoyed a few books in the Courtney saga, and feel confident that each time the author weaves a story it gets better.
Książki Wilbura Smitha zacząłem czytać zaledwie dwa lata temu. Poszukiwałem czegoś na plażę - a jak gorąco, to niech będzie Afryka. Powieści te przerosły moje wszelkie oczekiwania, ponieważ są znacznie głębsze niż się spodziewałem. To są również powieści przygodowe, ale nie są typowym czytadłem.Ta jest trzecia w serii i domyka wątek Seana Courtneya, jednocześnie wprowadzając na scenę nowych bohaterów. Trzyma wysoki poziom poprzednich tomów - uczy historii, pokazuje piękno Afryki i zagląda w dusze ludziom. Smitha czyta się fenomenalnie.
You know exactly what you're going to get with Wilbur and you get it
Placed in S Africa, a man works to discover the mystery of his grandfather's death and save the environment and animals. So written by a male author.
The third and final part of the Sean Courtney trilogy sees the action man grow old gracefully from a soldier into a statesman.
The stories are full of action, intrigue and romance.
But it’s all good fun.Parts of this book though I felt dragged a bit and became a bit boring but then the story picked up again.
I liked the way Sean had changed from the elephant killing great white hunter of ‘When the Lion Feeds’ to a conservationist and protector of Africa’s wildlife.This book wasn’t as good as the first two, mainly due the lull in the story in the first half.
sorry to say this review is for the abrigaded version
Love these books. I will stop with this one because I don't want to have them spoiled.
Loved the Courtney series. Smith’s early work is hard to beat for HF aficionados.
Great twists and turns... gut wrenching at times.
Good read as ever
SOUTHAFRICAS ANGLO-BOERS WAR...
