https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38977.The_Princess_of_the_Chalet_School
Impossibly old-fashioned, irrelevant and great bedtime reading. Enjoy.
The Tyrolean part of the Chalet School series remains a constant and beguiling delight to me.
There's something so obvious about Brent-Dyer's love for the surroundings and her brand new school that I can't help but adore these early books.Elisaveta is our new girl for this term and she's a Princess.
She's a Princess of Belsornia and she's being sent to the Chalet School to improve her health.
This book is spectacular and actually rather unique in the series but it's not without fault.
I think what makes it so perfect for me is the sort of the way Brent-Dyer writes it.
The school parts are great, but they're weighed down by the "our school is special enough to have a PRINCESS attending" stuff.
"There can never be any question of Princess Elisaveta succeeding to the throne?" [Note: that doesn't read like proper English to me.]"None.
The Salic law holds good here.
I believe the Belsornians would rather become a republic than have a woman on the throne!"Fast-forward to page 168:"...Who's the next heir?" demanded Jo. The King's arm tightened around Elisaveta.
"My little granddaughter," he said..."Her!" exclaimed Joey.
"But I thought you had the Salic law in Belsornia?"The King nodded.
"We had," he said.
Another great story. Great new characters of the princess and the matron. Loved the section on talking louder and the snails! Brilliance once again. Can believe Madge is going! What will happen next??
Her father, the Crown Prince, very enlightened for the time, send her off to boarding school (note that her near namesake, born just before this book was published) never went to school!The book has a plot.
Miraculously, Joey doesn't end up at death's door as a result.It's fun to read and there are so many likeable characters along with the loveable main ones.
I won't labour this point but I am so looking forward to Dr Jem Russell in particular and the Chalet school adults discovering the germ theory of disease.
This is good stuff!I'm very much looking forward to The Head Girl of the Chalet School
Easily one of the most dramatic books in a very dramatic series (that includes mountain rescues, avalanches and escaping the Nazis), The Princess Of The Chalet School is an enjoyable if rather over-the-top read.
Brent-Dyer somehow manages to embed this story, rife with courtly intrigue and politics, into the daily concerns of the Chalet School.There's also something to be said for how surprisingly feminist Princess is, for a book published in 1927.
Brent-Dyer's heroine, Joey Bettany, comes wonderfully to the fore: her mad rescue of Elisaveta from one of Cosimo's plots (for mad it is) nevertheless establishes her as a strong, effective character.
I like school stories that are about school, not impossible things.
Joey is again the main character, instead of focussing on Elisaveta (I guess spelling it with a "v" makes her more exotic, even though her father speaks English like a British schoolboy).
This isn't a school story, as there's actually very little about school life in it.
Angela Brazil did an installment of her school series The Princess of the School; I guess I'll go see if Gutenberg has it.
I also really enjoyed the plot, however predictable, and the use the girls make of their new survival/wilderness skills learned while trying to get more badges (I don't want to spoil here, but the last adventure Joey has is a good example of that).
I feel that the whole Guiding aspect of the book was handled very badly, though, seeing as it was just dropped on us as a fait accompli - I for one would have liked to learn more about how the girls got enrolled in it, what kind of work was required of them, what badges they could expect to earn, etc.
The princess plot is a cliché in every school story I've read so far but I enjoyed it nonetheless.
This one attempt by EBD to introduce a princess to one of her schools provides for a very interesting if rather stereotypical Ruritanian storyline.
She augments it with the interesting concept of a bad staff member, in this case Matron, which, while it is an idea she repeats in the Chalet series later, is not one she tends to use in her other school series.
It does, however, have the end result of creating a book with ongoing plot rather than the episodic nature we have seen in both School At and Jo of.

One of my favourite Chalet School books (I love almost all of the ones I've read).
Brent-Dyer connects a number of plotlines (Elisaveta, Matron, Madge) and makes them very much part of one term - there's no disjointed sense of 'this happened.
Then that happened.
Term ended' that sometimes characterises school stories.
The Cosimo plotline doesn't have to be massively realistic - the use of a fictional kingdom situates it firmly within the story, and so it works really effectively as an adventure.I did blink a few times at the (view spoiler)[mention of dispatching Cosimo to the fortress, and then his subsequent demise (hide spoiler)] - I wonder if that was an intentional implication, or whether I've just got a suspicious mind...

An early Chalet School book, it is one of the most beloved in the series, but one of the least interesting, in my opinion.
Elizaveta escapes her wicked uncle, who is trying to usurp the throne of fictional kingdom Belsornia.
Too much emphasis on Elizaveta's rescue by the intrepid Jo, and not enough on character development.
In my opinion, the best books in the series deal with the adjustment to school life of a misfit girl, perhaps one who is lonely, arrogant, peculiar, etc.
One good example is _Eustacia Goes to the Chalet School_, in which Eustacia has to go through a traumatic hiking experience before finally becoming Stacey!
The third book of the Chalet School series is probably the most overly dramatic of the first few books, at least. A princess comes to the Chalet School, and with the help of Joey manages to evade the cruel intentions of her mad (mad!) uncle, who wants the crown for himself. There's a mountain climb (naturally - if these book are to be believed, you can't get anywhere in Austria without scaling a mountain), and everyone frets about Joey's health. Again. They all live happily ever after, and Joey gets given a parade in her honour, much to her horror.
The very first one I read... and I didn't like it! My friend Jo had the entire series and lent me it - not sure why this one and not the first. I wasn't a huge fan, but later on I picked up Summer Term at the Chalet School to give the series another go, loved it, and the rest is history. :) I of course read Princess again but still wasn't a huge fan.
One of my favourite books in this series. Elisaveta, who is the Princess of Belsornia, has been sent to the Chalet School, to help her recovery from an illness. The fact that she is a princess has been kept secret from her schoolmates, except for Joey Bettany.Her cousin, who would be heir to the throne after her father, the Crown Prince, kidnaps her from her school in order to force her father to give up his position as the Crown Prince. Joey sets off to rescue her, and once again, saves the day!
I REALLY enjoyed reading this lovely Girls Gone By edition of one of my favourite Chalet School books. I could not even tell you how many times I have read 'Princess' over the years, but what a lovely treat to read this beautiful uncut, unabridged version, after reading the Armada version so many times. The front cover illustration is beautiful. Also enjoyed the article by Adrianne Fitzpatrick on Matrons, Good & Bad.
The third in the Chalet School series has Princess Elsaveta joining the school from Belsornia. She integrates well but there is underhand work afoot in her home country.Dastardly Cosimo traces her to the school and then tries to abduct her but Joey Bettany is not to be trifled with and she goes to the rescue.In addition the headmistress, Joey's sister, gets married and when Cosimo is finally discovered at the bottom of a ravine, everybody lives happily ever after.Jolly good fun!
This is book 3 in the Chalet Girl series. This one focuses on the addition of a new pupil to the school - a princess from a small nation. This book explores some issues of class and complicated family relationships. It also introduces Girl Guides and sees the end of the school being directly under the guidance of Madge Bettany. A fun one and a book I enjoyed more as a child than on my re-read as an adult. This time I found the bad guys a bit too annoying rather than scary!
I really enjoy these books, except for the parts that are in another language (is it French? No idea) that just is assumed you know what the heck they're saying. I get the Koffee part, but everything else? Totally lost. The story itself isn't too dependent on that though, and moves along nicely. Found my copy at my local op shop, and was a bit dismayed at the price ($30.00!) but they knocked it down to $10 for me, yay!I'd like to find more of these books, but they're a bit hard to find.
This is the first of a collection of Chalet School books that I found in an Oxfam shop yesterday. I was instantly transported back 20+ years to when I first read some of them.In this one, we have a princess join the school, just as the head hires an unpleasant Matron. There's plenty of drama in this book, and I was sorry when it ended. Thank goodness I have more to read!
I loved it just as much as I loved it the first time that I read it. Such a heartwarming book to read.
Hardback 1st library ed.
The third in the chalet school series which I am also reading in sequence.
Guess that is how it has to be read as there stories are chronologically placed as against Series like Bunter and Jennings which aren't.
The regular school setting in the scenic alps makes a fascinating read as usual.
There is a picnic to a nearby town where readers gets to vicariously enjoy the beautiful scenery of the Austrian Alps.
There is a crisis at overall series level with the head mistress Madge due to get married and leave the school.
Overall decent read and I would continue reading this series.
In Elsaveta we find a really nice character who has to live a very resticited life until she comes to the Chalet School.
She makes friends, goes on adventures - some more hair raising than others - becomes involved in helping the pupils rid the school of someone.
Joey is to the fore as Elsaveta's friend but not in a pushy fashion.
Joey has to come to terms with changes in her own life that will be hard for her to get used to.
We meet old friends and lose some loved characters.
If you are looking for a school series I would recomend The Chalet School.
I wanted more about the princess transitioning into her new life. She just seemed to adapt straight away. But aside from that, it is a good read - especially once the excitement of the kidnapping occurs.
It is so easy, with books of this genre, to slip into a patronising style or to make it all sound too cutely childish. So far the Chalet School books have been nothing of the sort, and long into the series may they stay so.
Interesting. Joey's adventures are always fun to read.
So I came to Princess having read School and Jo. And it was ...
Why, she'd hardly been head at all.Thirdly, there were lots of new staff and new girls, all nicely settled in, but leaving me a bit at sea about who was who.Coming to it now, with much more experience of just how low Armada covers can sink, and with three fill-in books giving me that missing year and introducing me to all the new characters, all those issues can now be set aside.
But, unlike its original immediate neighbours on the shelf (School, Jo, Head Girl, Rivals) it has no pages falling out.
