https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161896-a-swell-looking-babe
And back in that day and age, such an accusation was more than enough to get one fired from a position of such responsibility, at least in a small conservative town in Texas where the story is apparently set.Dusty thus takes a job as the night bell boy at the Manton Hotel.
Watching poor Dusty unravel is as gripping as watching the evil schemes that some of the characters have plotted unfold, and to no one's great surprise, before long Dusty Rhodes may well rue the day he ever encountered a swell-looking babe like Marcia Hillis.
A Swell Looking Babe is my fourth Thompson book, after The Killer Inside Me, The Grifters, and After Dark, My Sweet, all of which I liked a bit better, but this is still a book by the writer Stephen King said was his favorite.
And this book was King’s favorite, so it is worth taking a look at if you respect King.A Swell-Looking Babe is a thriller with echoes of Oedipus Rex, focused on bellhop Dusty Rhodes and his crush on a beautiful woman.
“So, obviously Thompson/Dusty is over the top in describing this “ideal woman”:“Sure, he'd seen some good-looking women before, at the Manton and away from it.
Pretty much the same set up as Charles Willeford's Sex is a Woman but written with a greater psychological insight and slightly more interesting sub plots and background details.
Just straight forward pulp crime fiction written to entertain for a few moments.Thompson adds a bizarre Oedipus complex twist to proceedings but largely it's all very perfunctory and obvious events drift towards their inevitable and frustrating conclusion.
Thompson at his best offers nasty pieces of work that the reader can't help but root for, here he offers wastes of space that you have no sympathy for as they're dragged towards a predetermined oblivion just to satisfy a depressing plot.
What a jerk for a main character! However, it was hard to look away. No promising attributes for this guy. My first by this author but definitely not the last. Rating somewhere between 3.5-4, so lets round up.
Trademark Jim Thompson; a psychological crime pulp that delves deep into the confused and corrupted amid a mixture of violence, longing and sense of hopelessness that only Thompson can muster.
A Bell Hop at a hotel with actor good looks and a high intellect, Dusty is easily swayed by swinging hips and the promise of a perverted comfort.
It’s his foray into the crime, gatewayed by a hotel guest that changes the dynamic, upping the story from pulp to crime in a splash of blood and twist of double/triples crosses.

Thompson is a great writer.
However this is not one of his best IMO.
His best work is in characters -- most notably in making nasty characters sympathetic.
This story just doesn’t do that -- or even try to.
The plot itself is very cliche noir genre and the characters have little interesting happening.
Furthermore, the main character is kind of wimpy and whiney throughout, I had a hard time enjoying him.
He was an Everyman, not a Jim Thompson character...
Furthermore, the ending was flat and kind of abrupt.
Thompson is one of my favorite writers.
Some nutty goings on in a hotel told from the perspective of a bellboy (not Jerry Lewis). There's cliche-type gangsters in there, too. Most of the action takes place indoors - Thompson should have turned this into a play!
Jim Thompson is an absolute master of character-driven mystery. Weaving together elements of crime fiction, Southern Gothic, and sociological commentary, this book accomplishes A LOT within its slim number of pages. For those who like their pulps dark and nasty, this hits the spot.Covered in-depth on the Bad Books for Bad People podcast:http://badbooksbadpeople.com/episode-...
It is a tough task to read an author's best and most popular work (two of them in fact) and then kind of swing at a ball you shouldn't by picking something deeper in the bibliography that really doesn't get talked about.I mean, A Swell-Looking Babe is interesting, if anything, because of Jim Thompson.
A Swell-Looking Babe is five stories in one: a would-be con woman almost tricks our hero into an attempted rape collar, a heist is set up by a bellboy and former Prohibition thugs, a near-senile old man puts pressure on his son, a man deals with his never-meant-to-be attraction to his mother and a father faces Communist suspicion all while lawyers bleed him dry.All of these are exciting stories ...
He sets up what seems like a pretty standard noir plot and then pivots into something totally unexpected and much deeper.
In this case he sets us up for the "naive young man who gets involved with the wrong woman" plot.
Sometimes I wonder how much my ratings of a book are effected by what I read directly before.
"The Man Who Folded Himself" was such a perfect book that this one had a lot to live up to in order to meet that standard.
Maybe it's that I'm too far removed from the time in which this gritty tale takes place.
Reminded me of afternoon movies on TV where I wished it was Humphrey Bogart and I got some no-name actor in a bad drama trying to be a low-budget version of the thin man.
"A Swell-Looking Babe" takes place in an aging hotel staffed by down-on-their luck people catering to a low-rent clientele.
Thompson knows how to set a scene and draw on the emotions of his readers.
My best friend loves Thompson and so do many famous contemporary authors.
And then there is the hotel robbery as Dusty gets involved with gangster Tug and Marcia, the "sweel-looking babe" of the title.
The robbery thread has all kinds of twists and turns, appears to be the primary arc, but by the end is actually a side plot.
The robbery plot doesn't always make a whole lot of sense and at times it seemed like Thompson was making it up as he went along, kind of like he added in the robbery as filler for the story he really wanted to tell about Dusty's relationship with his father.
But the money is good and the job is easy and Dusty has his sick old father to support.
He loves his dad but doesn't understand where the old man spends all the money Dusty gives him.
I enjoy his books because Thompson could delve into taboo subjects, which was really his forte, in a way that fit in with the pulp writing of the time while still writing clearly enough to shock modern readers.
In his novels he went back to the subject of insanity over and over again while giving each character their own reason for their insanity and their own warped perceptions.
While this novel is good, The Killer Inside Me is Thompson's best.
150 pages of slowly revealing how the main character is a massive piece of shit. Nicely done crime novel, with a pinch of gothic influence. **Daniel Polansky recommended this book to me. Thanks, Dan!**
Even one of Jim Thompson's lesser novels is worth a read.
Good stuff. Watch out for the pretty ones. They'll be the death of you.
Made me feel icky and miserable, like a good crime novel should.
Also, there’s this character of a lawyer, Kossmeyer, who clearly thinks of the protagonist as being this evil, terrible juvenile delinquent who is abusing his dear old dad, and it reminded me how in the 1950s people were so quick to think the worst of kids, and to absolve the parents of all blame, i.e. the whole so-called epidemic of “juvenile delinquents.” So yeah, Thompson is so amazing at characterization.
He really gets deep into the head of his protagonists; but for me, seeing Dusty crack into a million pieces, when I feel like he really needs some stable relationships and a shrink, makes me feel angry and sad.Is Dusty a sociopath who hates his fine, upstanding father?
Hotelangestellter wird in Verbrechen gezogen, durch besagtes babe, und vielschichtige Beziehung zum Vater. Wie das ganze ausgeht wüßte ich nicht zu sagen, sehr gut geschrieben, aber worauf kann ich meinen armen Kopf schon noch konzentrieren. 7/10
I read this book for Halloween because Jim Thompson's characters scare me way more than Stephen King's, and I guarantee you there's a lot more of them out there.
Took me back to when I was in my early teens and thought working in a hotel would be the coolest job in the world.
It has all the classic elements of a fifties pulp novel, including a gorgeous femme fatale -- Marcia Hillis, a gangster with his own army of thugs - Tug Trowbridge, a protagonist who at first appears to be nothing more than an ordinary guy caught up in things he never anticipated - Bill "Dusty" Rhoads.
Or is Dusty the simpleton he appears to be, reasoning things out slowly and cautiously?Even the robbery in this book is not at its heart, not so much as the shocking oedipal complex is the center of it all.
A really fun read with a complex, vaguely unreliable narrator that only added to the twists. A bellboy falls into a scheme involving a gangster and the titular femme, while dealing with the mounting pressure of taking care of his hapless father as well as a somewhat debilitating Oedipal complex.
The final judgment made on the protagonist of this book is made with such masochistic fervor, it makes one's stomach turn - Fascinating and upsetting, considering Thompson must've identified with this character at least a little, since it was informed by his experience as a night bellboy in a Fort Worth hotel.Every authority and every relative and every colleague of the bellboy in this book thrives on suspicion and hatred.
A lawyer hounds the bellboy for legal expenses his father has gathered.
If manipulative, incestuous head-games turn you on, than this is the book for you!
perchè nei romanzi di thompson ogni cosa andrà decisamente male, non c'è speranza e il destino già scritto dice che ogni cosa che potrà andar male andrà malissimo.
qui poi abbiamo un protagonista che avrebbe bisogno di una seduta o due dallo psicologo, una femme fatale ambiguissima, di un gangster crudele eppure al tempo stesso patetico e di personaggi di contorno non meno problematici: tutti sono più o meno perfettamente delineati con poche ma efficacissime frasi, tutti sono più o meno verosimili, reali, mai banali.
non è uno dei suoi capolavori -"colpo di spugna" se lo mangia- ma questo "l'altra donna" funziona benissimo e si lascia divorare pagina dopo pagina.
By the time it's over, you're often still no more certain of the objective reality of what you've just witnessed than the protagonist, so the tale lingers uncomfortably with you, leaving you going, "What the hell just happened?" This one is Thompson in (mostly) top form.
Knocked an extra star off this one, just because the femme fatale character feels more than a little too half-baked first-draft, even in the intentionally murky context of Dusty's skewed point of view...not up to par with the far better fleshed-out, convincing female characters I remember from Thompson's After Dark, My Sweet and Pop 1280.
Poor Dusty...just some mixed up kid working nights at a hotel to take care of his ailing father and, hopefully, someday continue his education toward becoming a doctor.
In other words, working nights at the hotel lays out a recipe for disaster.Thompson is the man.
As the plot thickens and the story progresses, they are truly in over their heads yet they maintain an illusion of control.
These episodes add to Dusty's desire and his paranoia yet you can't help but root for him in the end.
When the cards finally fall the reader is left with a feeling.
This one, A Swell-Looking Babe, never gets a mention.
I mean, Thompson’s got this reputation for a real crackling suspense writer, and the other stuff I’ve read so far lives up to that.
It’s not bad, don’t get me wrong, it’s a lot better than other books I’ve forced my way through.
But it’s not up to Thompson snuff, in my opinion.The plot is complicated, and gets a bit confusing in places with Thompson’s thin prose style.
So my advice—if you’re just getting into Thompson, don’t start here.
A Swell Looking Babe by Jim Thompson (1954) What we got in this is Bill ‘Dusty’ Rhodes, a hotel bellhop who works the night shift at the Manton hotel for the money. Despite being handsome, he is sad and angry at everyone, the hotel manager, Bascom, the mysterious lady, Marcia Hillis, a woman that Dusty sees usually in a dream in the beginning, then manipulative and needy like his mother in flashbacks, and his father who is old and grasping in his love and concern for his resentful son.  The bala
Despite being handsome, he is sad and angry at everyone, the hotel manager, Bascom, the mysterious lady, Marcia Hillis, a woman that Dusty sees usually in a dream in the beginning, then manipulative and needy like his mother in flashbacks, and his father who is old and grasping in his love and concern for his resentful son.
It is not until the end where the reader discovers the truth of Dusty’s acts toward his father and the acts of his father toward the son.
I have a hard time understanding the ending, because at first it seems that the lawyer who reveals the truth about the father, something happens then it seems that the whole thing was happening to Dusty.
