https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51019.Cat_s_Eye
i know for a fact that books were written and published after this one, but i can't for the life of me understand why.come to my blog!
Looking back with hindsight, a new pattern is formed, and the negative memories become fruitful for personal development.They are the roots for a rich inner life, and the message I read between the lines in Cat's Eye is that your experience can't be changed or undone, but it can be turned into creative power, and it can feed your understanding of the world.
I look at the progression of 5-star ratings by friends - mostly women - and wonder if it is a womanly weakness to rate a book 5 stars which deconstructs the world from the female perspective?
One would think that even a literary treatment of the 'private world of girls' is a subject so outside the sphere of all humanly concern that it warrants the level of universal apathy it generates.
So believe the reviewers who have confessed to having a Cordelia-like frenemy in their lives - someone who understood them better than a lot of people while simultaneously doling out emotional torment in devious ways.
"Katzenauge" is one of the many novels of the well-known Canadian author Margaret Atwood.It is the story of two women and their friendship; a friendship that became hostility - a story about childhood, about growing up.The style of writing is gripping, almost enthralling, so that the reader feels so close to reading so the impression arises that the narrative contains biographical features.
One of Atwood's more famous works of fiction, Cat's Eye is at once a meditation on the sorrows and comforts accompanying age as well as a coming-of-age story about a tumultuous and abusive bond between two young girls.
The novel juxtaposes past and present against each other, via twin narratives about the protagonist's childhood and adulthood.
The latter plot follows artist Elaine Risley as she returns to bustling Toronto, the city of her desolate youth, for a retrospective of her work, while the former focuses on her toxic childhood friendship with her classmate Cordelia, which ends in trauma.
Adult consequencesI don’t know if all victims have the potential to become bullies, but Elaine occasionally has flashes of it in adulthood, “It disturbs me to learn I have hurt someone unintentionally.
Knowing too much about other people puts you in their power, they have a claim on you, you are forced to understand their reasons for doing things and then you are weakened.”Lines I liked* ”Clothes lines are strung with… a display of soiled intimacy, which they [mothers] have washed and rinsed, plunging their hands into the grey curdled water."* About knowing about her brother’s secret girlfriend, “Knowing this secret… makes me feel important in a way.
But, although Elaine is an artist, she has almost nothing of the 'inward wits' of communal sense, imagination, fantasy, estimation or memory.The story is three dimensional: the North/South dimension of her life with her parents who migrate every year from Toronto to the Laurentians on biological field trips; the East/West dimension of her independent life which stretches from Toronto to Vancouver; and the temporal dimension of her own maturation.Periodically the three dimensions collapse into moments of insight and clarity that progress from childhood with age: boys are noisy and messy but essentially uncomplicated; girls are generally hateful even, especially, when they are friends; young men are superficial and boring; older men are duplicitous and domineering; motherhood is a schlep; marriage is a continuous losing battle; feminist sisterhood isn't to be trusted; art is largely pretense and scam and dates rather quickly.Elaine's life is a tale of haplessness, of lurching from one emotional trauma to the next.
As a relative latecomer to the works of Margaret Atwood (this was my fourth book in) – she continues to impress and engage immensely.‘Cat’s Eye’ has, like ‘The Blind Assassin’ (which it predates by around a decade) memory and memories as its central narrative device.
Thereon in we learn more about the childhood, formative years and life of our main protagonist – Elaine Risley latterly an artist, seemingly addressing her life through her work, making preparations for a retrospective of her paintings, whilst at the same time remembering and revisiting her past.The subsequent parts of the book concerning Risley's childhood are particularly strong, indeed outstanding – these form the heart and the most powerful part of the novel.
Mine was this pretty, six-feet-in-middle-school Cordelia-type who did all kinds of messed up betrayal type stuff to my little feelings over the years (stealing my things, sleeping with every boy I even sort of liked as soon as she could manage it, subtle manipulation to make me feel insecure – she got me, but no one else did or could, pathological lies, sabotaging all my other female friendships out of jealousy, the works), but literally boot-kicked the chest of someone for just looking at me funny, cracked a head open with metal object for unkind words, showed up at just the right time to jump in front of me as a group of three older girls who didn't like the look of grungy (hey, remember the early 90's?) wee-me were about to make full use of their size/numbers advantage until she frightened them away with her homicidal, cub-defending threats, took the fall when we would get in trouble, etc.
The annual Santa Claus Parade trotted and pranced through downtown Toronto a couple of Sundays ago, and while it was going on I thought of Margaret Atwood’s Cat’s Eye.Although I read the book – considered a highlight of Atwood’s middle period – more than two months ago, the image of protagonist Elaine and her frenemies watching the parade from her entomologist-father’s office at the University of Toronto stuck with me.
It's filled with lots of sensual details – sights, sounds, tastes – that evoke childhood, youth and young adulthood.The book also provides a clear-eyed look at the complex relationships among women – friends?
Cat’s Eye follows the controversial painter Elaine as she reflects upon her childhood and younger years when she returns to Toronto (the city of her youth) for a retrospective of her works.
Her reflections stir up memories of friendship, longing, betrayal, love, hate, and pain.
Especially haunting are her memories of Cordelia, a childhood friend with whom she had a complex relationship.
It is a truly brilliant story, so completely well-written and beautiful that I just wanted to read certain sentences over and over again.
Her story also rouses intense emotions in the reader, as we can all unearth memories of childhood friendships gone awry, awkward teenage years, and failed love.
Nearly impossible to write a review for such a masterful work as this.
All I can do is write some of my thoughts while reading this.
It's like a psychological character study.
It's the feelings that are evoked.
Everything is full of descriptions, the meaning belongs to the reader.
Atwood brings me to the brink, then pulls back leaving me with a sense of uneasiness.
Our lives can only be interpreted by us.
How well do we know anyone, as we carry our own secret thoughts, what do others carry.See?
I will be pondering this book long after it's reading.
So instead I remembered this book, which does from time to time nag at me on the edges of my conscious mind, and thought the following.A fine late twentieth century example of the Bildungsroman, thoroughly Wordsworthian - the child is the Father of the Man (view spoiler)[well in this case the child is the Mother of the Woman, but the general principle is the same (hide spoiler)], and of the particular sub-type of Bildungsroman in which the author from childhood grows up to be an artist.What though is different is not really the gender of the central character or even that they become a painter using egg tempura rather than a writer but the shift in the central influence upon the development of the character.
This time the year is 1989, and although The Remains of the Day is one of my favourite Booker winners, this one must have come pretty close.The narrator is Elaine, an artist who has returned from a new life in Vancouver to Toronto, the city where she spent most of her formative years, to attend and supervise a career retrospective exhibition.Each of the book's sections begins with a short introductory chapter set in the present and proceeds to tell another part of her life story, these start in childhood and gradually catch up.The dominant relationship is the one with her childhood friend Cordelia.
I always enjoy Margaret Atwood' s books and this is not an exception.
In fact this one is quite amazingly interesting.
It revolves around the memories of the main character, Elaine who recalls her friendships as a young girl.
It becomes apparent that she was bullied quite severely by her young friends and one of them in particular.
As the story progresses we find that in the end Elaine escapes from the bullying and eventually even turns the tables.
The bullied becomes the bully.
It is a sad story but written in Atwood's amazingly beautiful style, it becomes a superb reading experience.
She writes in the way I love, with beautiful sentences and paragraphs, filled with metaphors and similes and wonderful descriptions of the landscape and excellent character development, I really loved Elaine our protagonist as a child, I felt protective towards her when maybe she wasn't being protected enough...The adult Elaine due to events from childhood is a damaged/flawed character who looks back on her life albeit with incomplete memories.
You don't look back along time but down through it, like water.Beautiful 4 and 1/2 * rounded up to 5
Dark childhood secrets resurface and the Risley everyone believes they know is actually as fractured as the truth hidden inside her creations.This was an interesting chronicle of one woman's life.
I adored how the reader is introduced to Risley in her present, older self, before we are invited to return to her childhood and explore how the woman and the child become one.This was a poignantly dark exploration of adolescence, with topics such as bullying, sorrow, misogyny and individual prejudice discoursed upon.
The accumulation of life events are laid bare for the reader to discover and the journey leads us back to the beginning: to the individual this opened with.
I thought, “What can I learn from this?” I knew, even before picking up the book, how despicable such behavior is.
I knew where I stood, so I wondered what more could be learned.By reading this book one experiences on an emotional level the cruelty and the fear and anguish bullying inflicts on another.
I now look on such behavior with a fuller understanding.This book is about a trio of girls who bullied a fourth.
The book follows Elaine Risley, the girl who is bullied, from her earliest years to when she is middle aged.
Was Elaine's part time sexism really because of what Cordelia and her cronies did to her?
I don't know if her experience as a little girl had everything to do with Cordelia if she didn't remember it until much later in life.
What Cat's Eye really read like to me was trying to get around saying what one really feels because they are afraid it is the wrong thing to say, or will make them look bad.
The ending felt to me like Elaine is going to be uneasy until her dying day if she never gets that final reassurance from Cordelia.
Did Elaine want to be Cordelia?
There is still a wide-eyed teenager living inside me, and this book makes my melty twee little heart break and sing in equal measure. When I was 16 and read it for the first time, that was as close to a transcendental experience as I've ever had. Since then, I have re-read it roughly twenty thousand times, always whenever I need to just submerge myself in drenching beauty and angst.
She has such a keen sense of the human experience, a strong skill of observation, and she comments so wonderfully on these insights that I am moved and troubled in reading her works.
She forces me to think about my individual experience as well as its reflection in light of our connected humanity.Cat's Eye follows Elaine Risley, an elderly woman, famous for her controversial paintings, as she prepares for a retrospective show of her work and reflects on her childhood.
Details resurface time and again to link the narrative into a cohesive piece, much like the cat's eye is a motif in Elaine's paintings and life story.
It eventually reconciles the young girl we first meet with the woman that is leading us through her story, which is so often a question I wonder - how did this person come to be?
This is an eventful story, but not perhaps in the way of many other Atwood novels.
With time, and the progress of the story, Elaine's perception changes somewhat, she feels more enlightened with age and experiences and that shift is felt by the reader (though I, as the reader, refuse to let go of my grudge).
حالا که دومین کتاب از مارگارت اتوود را خواندهام، گمان میکنم که او خوانندهاش را ناامید نمیکند. توصیفهایش زنده است و جاندار و تصویرهایش ملموس و تازه. چشم گربه از جنبه داستان و تکنیک به اندازه آدمکش کور معرکه نیست اما کشش یک کتاب خوب را دارد و من یکی را پشیمان نکرده. حجم زیادی از داستان فلشبکهای طولانی است و مروری باحوصله بر تمام زندگی راوی اما در این میان خواننده تنها به دنبال نقطه پایان و برگشت به زمان حال نیست. او میتواند مثل مسافر یک قطار بنشیند و دنیایی که اتوود ساخته را آهسته آهسته تماشا کند.
حالا که دومین کتاب از مارگارت اتوود را خوانده‌ام، گمان می‌کنم که او خواننده‌اش را ناامید نمی‌کند. توصیف‌هایش زنده است و جاندار و تصویرهایش ملموس و تازه. چشم گربه از جنبه داستان و تکنیک به اندازه آدمکش کور معرکه نیست اما کشش یک کتاب خوب را دارد و من یکی را پشیمان نکرده. حجم زیادی از داستان فلش‌بک‌های طولانی است و مروری باحوصله بر تمام زندگی راوی اما در این میان خواننده تنها به دنبال نقطه پایان و برگشت به زمان حال نیست. او می‌تواند مثل مسافر یک قطار بنشیند و دنیایی که اتوود ساخته را آهسته آهسته تماشا کند.
We don't want things to be too normal, because that would be so boring!Cat's Eye is the story of Elaine Risley, the character in question who reflects on her life as she arrives in Toronto for a retrospective of her art.
Not so with Cat's Eye, which was also nominated for the Booker, but didn't win.The main theme of the novel is the development of relationships between girls, and the unique topic of female bullying.
However, in Cat's Eye I felt that her powers weren't quite on their full display, as with her later novels The Blind Assasin and .
Elaine doesn't like being back, feeling the dark memories crowd around her an d she began reliving the story of her childhood and her 'friendship' with a group of girls.
Elaine (view spoiler)[ found the strength after a particularly traumatic incident which nearly cost her her life to break completely away from her 'friends'.
It was that which made it worthwhile to sit through the well told but not particularly earth shattering story of Elaine's early life.
Her greatest story, about childhood bullying amid seemingly innocent play and the dire consequences, also has wonderful things to say about siblings-a brother and a sister's relationship and marriage.
When she visits the gallery in Toronto that's going to exhibit her paintings, she is very critical and negative about the place, to the point where I was wondering how a professional, experienced painter could feel so uncomfortable in what should be her own domain:I open the gallery door, walk in with that sinking feeling I always have in galleries.
But seeing how her childhood sufferings effected her later on, and how her psyche tries to deal with it, was interesting and at times emotional.I also really enjoyed the descriptions of Elaine's paintings.
Gleichwohl hilft es der eigenen Lesefreude ungemein, wenn sich so etwas wie ein roter Faden in einer Geschichte abzeichnet, die einen mit einem gewissen Interesse bis zum Ende durchhalten lässt.
Ich habe in diesem Jahr mit Knausgard einen Autor gelesen, der das detaillierte Beschreiben seines Alltags fast schon auf die Spitze getrieben hat.
Da hilft mir auch nicht das von mir wenig geschätzte Präsens als Erzählzeit, welches wohl Spannung erzeugen soll, mich aber immer öfter ärgert, weil es ohne Bezug zur Erzählung eingesetzt wird.
Gerade in einem Buch, in dem die zeitlichen Erzählebenen immer wieder wechseln, erschließt sich mir nicht der Sinn der Gegenwartsform.
Until now, Surfacing was my favorite non-dystopian book by Atwood. Cat's Eye now claims that spot. There were parts of this that were so honest and awkward in their depiction of children being cruel to each other that it was uncomfortable to read. Atwood does an amazing job of providing a main character who is not necessarily an unreliable narrator but who is definitely an unaware narrator. And yet the author finds ways to convey subtle ideas of just how unaware that narrator is without ruining the main character's voice. A really wonderful book.
It's a funny little conceit, but it's stretching plausibility a bit far to pretend that there's some enormous country right on top of the United States where gay marriage is legal* and we totally never invade it at all.
No, because it's narrated in first person as a flashback, but maybe she'll maim her a little.(view spoiler)[It's a bit of a letdown, after that, to find out that everyone has their own perspective on things and even the most hissing of villains is more to be pitied than cursed.
