https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1047343.How_to_Suppress_Women_s_Writing
Although if they're still presenting The Catcher in the Rye as literature pertinent to high schoolers, maybe not -- that 1951 novel, set in the late 40s about the time I was being born, was utterly alien to me even back in the mid-60s.There is, of course, a whole world of books written by and for women with little to no quarter given to what male critics want -- romance, which Russ manages to not mention here.
of Texas Press should fix that forthwith -- but a paper edition can still be had, here: http://utpress.utexas.edu/index.php/b...I do recall reading one or two of Russ's early SF novels back in the 70s, but I'm not sure I "got" them at the time.
To act in a way that is both sexist and racist, to maintain one's class privilege, it is only necessary to act in the customary, ordinary, usual, even polite manner. I haven't allowed Goodreads users to follow me for a while now. After years of letting the silent hundreds accumulate behind me out of some misguided belief that likes for my reviews was what I was all about, I figured out that generating free content for an unresponsive audience drains like nothing else. Even now, when I am far le
Motives for the dismissal differ: habit, laziness, reliance on history or criticism that is already corrupt, ignorance (the most excusable of all, surely), the desire not to disturb the comfort based on that ignorance (much less excusable), the dim (or not-so-dim) perception that one's self-esteem or sex-based interests are at stake, the desire to stay within an all-male, all-white club that is, whatever its drawbacks, familiar and comfortable, sometimes the clear perception that letting outsiders into the club, economically or otherwise, will disturb the structure of quid pro quo that keeps the club going.
Either you're going to make an effort to figure out what I'm talking about with this review or you won't.
After years of running across references to How to Suppress Women's Writing, I have finally read it.
(The timing on my acquiring and reading the book and my involvement in certain online arguments that I've stumbled upon lately about how sexism really still exists, no, really is probably not coincidental.)ANYWAY.
Because A mode of understanding life which willfully ignores so much can do so only at the peril of thoroughly distorting the rest.
A mode of understanding literature which can ignore the private lives of half the human race is not "incomplete"; it is distorted through and through.
This book had a huge influence on me as a young writer, an introduction to a conversation that continues to this day, the ways in which the world has tripped up the creative woman, diminished her, sidetracked and sidelined her.
In the process, the book rescues many of these neglected artists from oblivion.
(I'm reminded very much of the similar project in women's visual arts that resulted in the founding of the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington, DC, the rescue of so many women artists who have been diminished, suppressed, erased.) Learned a great deal about the world I was entering and the many pitfalls, the outrageous ways in which women are silenced.
Imprescindible.No es un ensayo que me haya abierto los ojos a por qué leer mujeres, (ya sé todo lo que me pueden ofrecer), pero a pesar de todo lo he disfrutado muchísimo porque he conocido muchas historias, datos y citas desconocidas.Durante la lectura solo podía pensar en que podría titularse también «Señores siendo la peste, ahora con fuentes para callarles la boca cuando las pidan».Es un ensayo muy inteligente, lleno de preguntas que se hace la propia Russ y que se contesta investigando.
This book is a satirical guide on ignoring or reducing the contribution of women in literature, although the basic principles could apply to other repressed groups and other forms of media. Although Russ lists these as discrete concepts, she describes them as building upon each other. e.g., because there are so few 'classic' women writers, women are not expected to be writers. Or even if they try, their contributions are ignored because of some personal issue or of the difference of the subject matter.
This should be required reading for all humans. If reading it doesn't make you angry, you're not paying attention.
It's uncanny how 30 years after writing the same shit still gets said about women artists and writers. A great classic text.
Utterly fucking brilliant. I hesitate to be melodramatic, but it's been a few weeks now, I've renewed it from the university library twice, and I may not be over-stating the case to say that this is one of the books that changes my life. It's genuinely altered how I think about criticism, I've got a to-read list that tripled in the period I was reading it, and I've been arguing with professors and blog commenters in a really different way than I used to. It just -- the experience of reading it was overwhelming in the very best way.
But talk about sexism or racism must distinguish between the sins of commission of the real, active misogynist or bigot and the vague, half-conscious sins of omission of the decent, ordinary, even good-hearted people, which sins the context of institutionalized sexism and racism makes all too easy.I hesitate to mention this social dimension of sexism, racism, and class since it can be so easily used as an escape hatch by those too tired, too annoyed, too harried, or too uncomfortable to want to change.
The cover of How to Suppress Women’s Writing really says it all: for writing/popular culture to be maintained as a man’s sphere, women’s writing needs to be made illegitimate: she wrote it with someone else’s help; she wrote about boring things that only appeal to women (like female friendships, parenting, or clothes) instead of the important things that appeal to men (like male friendships, war, or sports); she wrote about male things, which makes her work indecent or off-putting; or even, she’s just an anomaly.
Whilst I did agree with a lot of what Russ mentioned and cited within this essay, I found the early chapters a little dated and somewhat changed in todays world, but the later chapters were far more relevant.This looks at the suppression and erasure of women's writing within history.
I will admit that, not having done and english course or degree myself, I didn't/hadn't read many of the authors she cited, but some were bigger names, and some were women who have faded into nothing thanks to history...The biggest thing to take away from this for me is that this is a book about erasure of women's work, but it's a solid examination of the things to watch out for, stay far away from, and the ladies who managed to succeed despite the odds and the people to look up to.
For reasons both good and bad, HOW TO SUPPRESS WOMEN'S WRITING by Joanna Russ reads like it could have been written yesterday.
Actually, the book is older than me—published in 1983—but Russ’ smirking, clear-eyed perspective is still relevant.HOW TO SUPPRESS WOMEN'S WRITING investigates historical and social reasons that may have kept whole generations of women from writing in the first place (things like differential rates of literacy, disparate access to education, women’s historical lack of leisure time and position as wife as a second work shift).
This lack of intersectional focus irked me while I read it—it’s such a good book, and also such a clear example of the failings of second wave feminism.
Should be required reading for feminists, for book lovers, for writers, and for those who don't believe women or minorities are underrepresented in the world of art.
That means there's not necessarily a shared history or understanding of experience; it's scatter shot, even though it's common.
I know Russ isn't the only person who has said this, but this book is marked deep because she said it in a way I'd thought and believed...and it was one of those reading experiences that I'll be carrying with me BECAUSE it was like finding that brain twin, like finding that voice I'd been craving to hear that said the things I'd thought.
Spends a great deal of time discussing the works of Margaret Cavendish, Duchess of Newcastle, tying it tightly in my head to Alan Moore’s League of Extraordinary Gentlemen.
For example, poverty and lack of leisure are certainly powerful deterrents to art: most nineteenth century British factory workers, enduring a fourteen-hour day, were unlikely to spend a lifetime in rigorously perfecting the sonnet.” (6)“Privileged groups, like everyone else, want to think well of themselves and to believe that they are acting generously and justly: Conscious conspiracy would either quickly stop, or it would degenerated into the kind of unpleasant, armed, cold war with which white South Africa must live.
Fantastic, concise, and well-structured exposé of the many ways in which women's and minority writing has been and continues to be suppressed and marginalized. Russ not only puts into clear language things you've heard, known, vaguely understood your whole life, she also offers numerous starting points for digging into the world of forgotten and ignored women's literature. I'm diving into Villette immediately.
Russ' book is still relevant because not everything has changed. In particular, the chapters about how women writers were recieved before it was known that they were women, are really interesting.But its also a genre plea because many of the quotes and stories come from writers in the Sci-Fi and genre field.
If properly done, these strategies result in a social situation in which the ‘wrong’ people are (supposedly) free to commit literature, art, or whatever, but very few do, and those who do (it seems) do it badly, so we can all go home to lunch.The methods indicated above are varied but tend to occur in certain key areas: informal prohibitions (including discouragement and the inaccessibility of materials and training), denying the authorship of the work in question (this ploy ranges from simple misattribution to psychological subtleties that make the head spin), belittlement of the work itself in various ways, isolation of the work from the tradition to which it belongs and its consequent presentation as anomalous, assertions that the work indicates the author’s bad character and hence is of primarily scandalous interest or ought not to have been done at all (this did not end with the nineteenth century), and simply ignoring the works, the workers, and the whole tradition, the most commonly employed technique and the hardest to combat.pp.
This is a very enlightening book, and it made me feel good about my effort to read primarily women writers. I hope more people do the same!
This was first published in 1983, but does not feel all that dated - in fact almost all of Russ's arguments are still pertinent 34 years later.This slim book tackles the suppression of women's writing in 11 different chapters, with titles such as Prohibitions, Bad Faith, False Categorizing and the one quoted above.
There is (at least in the edition I have) also an afterword, focused on authors who are all women of colour, where Russ admits that she has spent years as a "cultural solipsist", which was especially interesting.I thought Russ had some great arguments backed up by a lot of research, along with some interesting examples from her life as a writer herself, and as an academic and later professor.
How do we suppress women's writing?
Just say: "She didn't write it.
She wrote it but she shouldn't have.
She wrote it but she had help.
She wrote it but she's an anomaly.
She wrote it BUT..."A well-argued, lucid overview of the many ways women's writing has been ignored, suppressed and denigrated over the centuries.
Though first published over 30 years ago, too many of the author's arguments remain valid to this day.
Plus ça change....)Thank you to Edelwiess and the publisher for an ARC of the re-issue of this book, completed with biting forward by Jessica Crispin.
I still refer frequently in conversation to facts gleaned from this book --about the diversity in reception of the Brontes, in particular, and about the practice of anthologizing, where the percentage of women represented in anthologies remains constant, largely because women writers are never ADDED to, but replaced with a new slate of writers from generation to generation, whereas their male counterparts are allowed to hold their place, despite the continued presence of a sizeable percentage of minor talent.
All of which leads to the false conclusion, for many young woman starting out, that with the exception of a small handful of women, most successful female writers are contemporary.
Absolutely fantastic! I had to skip around because I'm using it for a research paper, but definitely worth the read!
Powinnam się wkurzać za to, jak Russ dekonstruuje mi pewne tezy doktoratu, ale jestem zbyt wdzięczna za wyciągnięcie mnie z dołka intelektualnego.
Bardzo podobało mi się także dążenie do inkluzyjności, w tym rodzaj indeksu wypowiedzi WOC na temat ich pozycji jako autorek, gdzie Russ mówi jedynie, że one same wiedzą najlepiej, w jakich warunkach pracują, więc jej rolą może być jedynie wskazanie, a naszym zadaniem jest dowiedzenie się.
Myślę, że ta praca jest dla mnie na poziomie doktoratu tym, czym „To Write Like a Woman” Russ było na poziome licencjatu, czyli czymś, co uratowało mi dupę.
I'm thinning my books but i'm gonna order 3 more of this cause i need to give it to a (high school) second cousin i hardly know & prolly a couple others.
Time-specific and timeless.The easiest example may be Charlotte Bronte, because we have all read Jane Eyre, who is welcome in many academic settings.
The percentage of Jane Eyre readers who have also read - or even heard of - CB's other books is tiny.
It's not just writers who are kept systematically out of reach, but the less ladylike observances of those we think we know.The book is a guidebook to the nature of suppression in general.
If you believe that women (and other minorities) have been oppressed over the years in terms of their production of art, you should read this book to gain a deeper understanding of how it has been done as, well as why.If you are unconvinced about women (and other minorities) being oppressed in terms of their art, you should read this book.
You will be confronted with some interesting evidence via reviews, in particular, that might challenge your point of view.If you're in a minority and interested in producing art, it might be worth reading this book so that you can watch out for ways in which your art can be suppressed.This is a superb book.
If you are a woman and a writer, do yourself a favor and read this book.
If you're a woman and majored in literature in college, do yourself a favor and read this book.
After reading this book, I don't think that the patriarchy per se is responsible for my block; rather, the book makes me feel like I owe it to myself to continue chipping away at the block and not let myself silence myself, if that makes any sense.
Read this book, perhaps reassess some things, then go out and create what you value and release that creation to the world.
Russ originally published this title in 1983, but it's content and criticisms still feel incredibly relevant today.
Russ sets about exploring the many avenues through which women are excluded from the art world(literature, fine arts, etc.), including being criticized for not creating the "right" art, a lack of any history of mentors to look to, and a general lack of opportunities for involvement in the arts professionally.
This criticism cannot only be applied to women, but also minorities, and basically any group which can be considered an "other" in the eyes of the white, heterosexual patriarchy who serve as the gatekeepers of the art world.
A quick, basic overview of the ways women writers and their works have been denigrated and marginalized over time.
That sounds depressing, but it's sharply written and an easy, accessible read.
It's also an important read, because these 'techniques' are often unconscious and ingrained, and even those of us who are women and are writers are prone to falling into these patterns.
It's extensively researched, and contains some interesting quotes and anecdotes from working writers.While the book largely addresses the history of European and American white female writers, Russ points out that the same criteria and misunderstandings are applied to writing by all sorts of minority groups, with the same result.It's well written and informative -- an improving book that you can blaze through in a day or two.
I’M SCREAMING ALOUD I LOVED THIS SO MUCH!!!!
joanna russ is an irreverent fangirl (yeah that’s right she’s one of ours) who gives ZERO FUCKS.
I don’t want to spoil some of the best lines in the book, which were laugh out loud funny, but I HAVE to include my absolute favorite: “Much anti-feminist criticism of feminist writing can best be answered with, ‘Yeah?
Writing your ten-thousandth essay on King Lear?’” AHAHAHAHA.
DAMN JOANNA!!!!!
I love you.
[edit: she is dead :((( but her work will live on when I teach it in every lit class forever.]
