https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8258519-new-york
It’s billed as assessable history, so depending on your base line parts seem rushed and lite.
But, he covers a lot of territory from angels I don’t often read—Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address from a press photographer’s point of view.Follows a prospering mostly WASP family from New Amsterdam to post-911.
There are other families to illustrate slavery, natives, and immigration.
No point in getting to attached to any of them for the most part they’ll be gone in a few chapters.
There are wars to prosper from and fires to fight.
The city is the star no matter which story line your following.I loved those independent Dutch women.**********************************************************https://www.kirkusreviews.com/book-re...https://www.thenewdorkreviewofbooks.c...http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/...
Edward Rutherfurd is an exceptional historical fiction author.
His attention to details, the character development, the emotion, the settings, the multi-generations bring his books to life.
If historical fiction is a genre you love and you haven't read any of his books yet, it's a must.
And perhaps New York is the perfect Rutherfurd novel to start with.Why?1.
The novel starts when New York was called New Amsterdam and ends in the 1960's.
Multi-generational with appearances by famous Americans.5.
But I've also learned through my travels around the world that many people from other countries equate New York to America.
I like reading somewhat trashy historical family sagas, but I was expecting a little more diversity in this book following four centuries of the history of New York and the people who lived in it.
After all, New York is a hubub of multiculturalism, but this book ends up being overwhelmingly Anglocentric.
The story ends, as expected, with 9/11, and true, there is a poignant final note as the tale comes full circle - but as you close the book you cannot help feeling a little disappointed by what could have been.
"People came here for freedom and, hard though the way up might be, they found it.
To make it, you needed the work ethic.""No matter how hard things were, New Yorkers never gave up."This was a fascinating story that encompassed over 300 years.
Starting in 1664 when present day New York City was a Dutch fort and trading post through 2009 as New Yorkers, and America, showed it's resilience following the terrorists attacks of September 11, 2001.
What makes New York great is the people.
The people who came for freedom and because they never gave up and worked hard found it.
The author managed to tell not only the historical story of the city but also conveys the changes in mood, attitude, and life for New Yorkers over the centuries.
The only fault I have with the book is that the descendants of Quash the vanDyck's slave, Pale Feather, and Salvatore fell to the waste side in favor of the more traditional (and frankly easier to write) high society Master family.
Surely there could have been more to that side of the story than a tragic end during the NYC Draft Riots or Pale Feather’s family beyond the opening of the canal.
That book was clearly more personal than New York, because Rutherfurd gave it both a strong sense of time and place that kept me riveted.
New York, on the other hand, feels like a publisher's mandate to an author--"Keep up with the gimmick that makes us cash".
Sure, Rutherfurd tries to convince us (in the first 400 pages I think he mentions the 'gabled Dutch houses' about 50 times), but instead this book comes off like something that would happen if you did enough research into a place to fill your publisher's mandate but didn't actually care about it all that much.
It's a good book. But don't expect diversity in the story. Rutherford tailors his narrative pretty closely to the experiences of the Masters-to the detriment of the other families. Rutherford has chosen to avoid aspects of New York (Five Points/the Harlem Renaissance/the infant film industry/Broadway)that could have been mined for fascinating reading. It's the narrowness of the focus that really is the most frustrating aspect of the book. It's a good book, but it's not diverse.
3:5 starsKudos to Edward Rutherfurd for his extensive research.
I enjoyed the whirlwind tour of the history of New York from the early Dutch settlement in the seventeenth century to the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers in 2001 (plus an Epilogue set in 2009) which formed the backdrop to this generational saga.
Certainly every major event is included in this novel, and everybody who was somebody in New York is mentioned in the story.
The fictional characters are a cross-section of society, with Native American, Dutch, German, English, Negro, Italian and Jewish families.
However, the characters and their stories were often lacklustre.
New York is an amazing, detailed and powerful novel, a chronicle of many people who were able to call this city home over decades of time.
It’s no secret that Edward Rutherfurd is at the top of my list when it comes to favorite authors of historical fiction.
Finally, the wait was over, and was it ever worth the wait!In New York, Rutherfurd opens the novel in the year 1664, when the city was just a settlement called New Amsterdam.
In so doing, the reader has an opportunity to learn about history and, at the same time, is marvelously entertained with a sweeping, family saga.I think this book is Rutherfurd’s best.
Having lived in New York City for a number of years, I loved relearning some it’s history, and also being taught some things that I never knew about.
I really enjoyed most of this book. It's for anyone who likes novels that provide great history along with fiction... this novel traces the history of New York... my problem is that he dropped the storyline for the African-American family story line without much ceremony as if African American families didn't have a role in modern New York.
Like Rutherfurd’s other novels, New York: A Novel is a massive book. It would require dedication and time to read – also patience – for the story begins in the 17 century, during the Dutch colonization, to the 9/11 destruction of the World Trade Center in 2001. That’s 3  centuries of history. Still, in spite of its length, the story didn’t linger very long in some eras. The author highlighted the most historic and momentous events: the coming of the British, the war of independence, the financia
It would require dedication and time to read – also patience – for the story begins in the 17 century, during the Dutch colonization, to the 9/11 destruction of the World Trade Center in 2001.
The author highlighted the most historic and momentous events: the coming of the British, the war of independence, the financial rise of the city, the Depression, urban decay, and many others.
Along with them are other families, old and new, that help shape the history of the city.
Ich war noch nie in New York, aber die Metropole ist aus TV-Bildern, Büchern und anderen Medien doch so vertraut, dass ihre Entstehungsgeschichte richtig spannend für mich war.Ein Aspekt, der mir sehr gut gefallen hat, war, dass Rutherfurd viele Ereignisse schildert, die weniger bekannt sind und speziell New York betreffen.
Weitere Themen sind die High Society von New York, der einem Adelsstand gleichkam, sowie Antisemitismus.Was mich ein wenig gestört hat, war, dass die Geschichte einiger Familien im Verlauf des Buchs abreißt und nicht mehr weiterverfolgt wird.
In between, the journey through the generations of the fictional families Mr Rutherfurd has created traverses many of the major events in the history of both New York and America.
The earlier parts of the novel were well served by Mr Rutherfurd’s focus on the lives of families living through the historical events.
By the end of the novel, the focus was almost entirely on one family and I found myself wondering about some of the others and the resolution of the issues they had been facing.I think that this novel primarily depicts the historical development of New York from an economic and political perspective, and this makes sense when looking at a city over a period of nearly 350 years.
Love all of ER books and all the research he puts into them...this one included! Hope he at some point will write about other major american cities. Any readers of his previous books will want to make sure and read this one. It starts in 1600's with the Dutch settlers and Native Americans and moves forward from there to around 2011. Well worth the time you put into reading the 850+ page novel.
Whether it was the Dutch/English rivalries in early Manhattan, the conflict between Patriots and Loyalists as New York weathers the American Revolution, the draft riots of the Civil War era, the Flapper and Speakeasy era, the collapse of the economy in the Great Depression, the changing times of the 50s and 60s, or the turn of the 21st century, every era of history was illustrated not by an infodump about the historical events, but by returning to our friends the Masters, the Adlers, the Kellers, the Carusos, and seeing how they are faring.I really love these books, and intend to eventually read all of Rutherfurd's novels.
Some years ago, I read Rutherford's "London" in the hope that it would enhance my enjoyment of a then planned visit to the great city, and I was rewarded beyond my wildest expectation.
As a native New Yorker, I can say without hesitation, that anyone seeking to visit "The Big Apple" would do well to read this book first.
Finally I would point out that, though the book is clearly researched in depth, the author is not one of those who falls in love with their research to the detriment of the narrative flow.
30 CDs. I think this is the longest audiobook I've ever listened to!
I was trying to remember how long the Harry Potters were, but I think this one wins.And, ohhhh, it was good.
I love me a good epic, and Rutherfurd always delivers.
This looooong adult novel covers the history of New York from the natives on Manhattan island to the fall of the World Trade Center.
I loved his London, The Princes of Ireland, and Sarum, and I'll continue to read his new ones.
I think he's a modern day Michener.
Fantastic; thoroughly enjoyed this book and made me want to go out and get his other ones. I love history and have had a fascination with New York since I was a little girl. The author weaves the stories of his fictional characters against the backdrop of all the major events in New York's past so easily, it's almost impossible to tell you're getting a history lesson at the same time. I will definitely be exploring Edward Rutherfurd's other books.
Delightful read.
Review in danish, as the book was read in danish - but wuaw! Med fare for at lyde forudindtaget - jeg har læst flere andre af hans bøger med samme 5-stjernede resultat - så er denne bog den bedste saga-historie-fiktion jeg har læst. Det siger jeg hver gang, at jeg læser Edward Rutherfurd Han er én af mine absolut favorit forfattere indenfor historisk fiktion genren, så er det på plads. Læseren bliver via familien Master ført gennem Ny Amsterdams historie (senere New York) med udgangspunkt i byen
Jeg ved ikke hvor mange år man arbejder på et sådan værk, men med den research og sans for hvad karaktererne har oplevet i hin tid, flettet sammen med de historiske fakta, så taler vi flere år.
Citat fra 1776, hvor der var endnu en krig: "Vi taber muligvis slaget, men selv engelske generaler har advaret regeringen om, at ingen hær kan holde et folk nede for bestandig, når det ønsker frihed."Min udgave fra 2009 er udstyret med gamle kort, så man har en lille chance for at følge lidt med i beskrivelserne, denne detalje er ret vigtig og det kan anbefales at kigge grundigt på disse, især floderne.
The story traces the lives of members of the Master family and a few other families who become connected to them beginning in the mid-17th century and continuing through to the present.I literally couldn't put this book down, I was totally immersed in it and carried it with me everywhere I went for weeks just so I could read it whenever I had a minute.
I'll definitely be reading another one of his books one of these days.
An epic historical novel that begins in 1664 and ends with the collapse of the World Trade Center in 2001.
The story focuses mainly on the Master family and spans generations.
Throughout the years, the Master family members are linked in different ways to other ethnic groups, so a lot of side stories develop.
All of the stories take place in New York, so the city becomes a central focal point with a life of its own.
Even though the book is long and some parts are overly descriptive, by the end of the novel I was ready to buy a plane ticket to New York.
Disappointing. Recommended by a friend whose taste I trust, but I couldn't finish it. John Masters is like an Early American Forrest Gump - not too bright and lots of famous people make cameo appearances in his life... Sam Adams, Ben Franklin, John Jay, etc. I stopped reading after about 250 pages and just skimmed bits to the end. I enjoyed Sarum and thought Rutherfurd was a good storyteller, but his writing seems really simplistic in New York and I was bored.
The author does not give you enough time to get into each character and learn how New York developed.
I am mid way through the book - but the ever changing story line leaves the reader wanting more depth.
The only thing that keeps you interested, I would say are the historical developments along the way.
For me a great book is one that not only provides you with history but also allows you to see into the lives of the characters of a past time period and get involve in their story.
All of that can also be said of New York: the Novel which tries to encapsulate about 350 years of the history of New York City, mostly by following one family of English descent, the Masters, who early on married into one of the founding Dutch families, but as with Sarum, the effect is cumulative, and I found myself completely engaged through its 860 pages.I’m a native New Yorker, and as such so much of this book in the very beginning was irresistible.
In 1664 in the Dutch settlement of New Amsterdam, a Dutch settler with the name of Van Dyck begins a family tree that will span multiple generations, up until the 9/11 attacks on the World Trade Center.
Or the O’Donnels, Kellers and Caruso’s, who also play their part in the book.During the book the reader is confronted with some of the highlights in the history of New York, such as the English takeover, the American Civil War and the 9/11 attacks.
Edward Rutherfurd writes historical novels that start in the early days of a particular city or country and leaps through history by 2-3 generations at at time, weaving a tale of families that are intertwined.
Each family has particular traits and trades which evolve with the history of the place.
I've read all his books because I enjoy this style and was eager to read this one since it was about New York city, and Manhattan.
What I did like is that it stayed faithful to what I know of local history, and the families stories were interwoven well with major events in New York history.
The early chapters are very enjoyable and one of them shows a slaves view of early New York which was fascinating.If I have any quibbles only that characters do tend to exit off stage.
I wanted to know what happened to the flawed Margaretha De Styl, the Dutch merchants character who did the dirty on the elderly slave - but she just disappeared.
The only other thing is it could be abit more desctiptive of places, architecture.But a breezy read and written by an Englishman.
An Englishmans angle on the revolutionary war is quite interesting.
Interesting for someone who has no knowledge of New York history.
