https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1563185.Halley_s_Bible_Handbook
Halley's Bible Handbook began in 1922 as a 16-page hand-printed pamphlet that Henry Halley gave out to encourage people to read and understand the Bible.
2) Christ is the heart and center of the Bible." Halley gives background on the setting and time of the Bible, including archaeological discoveries and historical references.
But next year, I'll start over reading the Bible from the beginning, and I will use this handbook as I read.
But the most important message of this handbook is, in Henry Halley's words, "that every Christian should be a Constant and Devoted Reader of the Bible; and that the primary business of the Church and Ministry is to lead, foster, and encourage their people in that habit."
This popped up in my Recommendations and I realized I had read it in the 80's - maybe not every word, but I used it quite a bit as a good reference.
A wonderful resource for anyone studying God's word.
VERY MINIMAL amount of information on each book and chapter of the Bible, wouldn't even consider this a commentary, not even a beginners start, YES, DEFINITELY abbreviated. What's the point!? Sometimes three chapters of a Bible book jumbled together and given a brief description together of all three chapters, no thanks.
2. Halley's biases appear in many of his "archaeological notes." For example, on PG 166 there is a paragraph describing that the Canaanites (Phoenicians) sacrificed their babies and children and stuffed their burned ashes in jars.
While the Canaanites/Phoenicians most likely performed child sacrifices in times of extreme distress, it is no where near as common as Halley wants to believe.
The overall thing that completely ruined Halley's handbook was his section on Church History and "How We Got the Bible" section.
Excellent book.
In time the booklet grew into a small volume, and he began calling it Halley's Pocket Bible Handbook, but before long “Pocket” was dropped from the name as the volume was too large for a shirt pocket.
It has been said that “Halley's Bible Handbook contains more biblical information than any other book of its size.” One may not necessarily agree with every statement that Halley makes, such as his allowance that the days of creation might have been long geological eras, his implication that Noah’s flood may have been a merely local deluge, or his suggestion that the ark rested on Mt. Ararat though the latter is a traditional view.
I can see how this book made it into my 100 Christian Books That Changed the Century list. It seems extraordinarily comprehensive and authoritative, and it prefaces itself with "the Bible is the inerring Word of God."I have to say I'm very pleased that I re-read my beginnings of the "100 Christian Books ...." challenge, and I didn't say I'd actually READ every page of every book. So I wasn't cheating when I whipped through this at a breakneck scan.
Really it's not bad, though three stars makes it look so, it's just that Unger's Bible Handbook is so much better. I was going to give it 2 stars because "It was OK" better describes my thoughts on the book than "I liked it" which is what 3 stars stands for, but 2 stars just makes it look worse than my true opinion of the book.
I haven't yet completely read it cover to cover but It is a " must have"in Bible study . Along with a good Bible dictionary and an exhaustive concordance. Also a good Bible Atlas is helpful I do wish I had one of those
This was the first commentary I ever read. It was a birthday present for my birthday. I learned quite a bit about the archaeology being done to understand the Bible better that was included in this book. I still have my copy.
Most books are rated related to their usefulness and contributions to my research.Overall, a good book for the researcher and enthusiast.Read for personal research- found this book's contents helpful and inspiring - number rating relates to the book's contribution to my needs.
This was on my pastor's "Book of the Month" list on time, and I've really enjoyed learning context, history, customs, geography and more in this compact little treasure!
How can i read this book?for free. Can anyone help me please,!
Excellent source for help or interpretations of biblical passages.
I read this when i was in middle school...not worth your time.
The issue for me is that this is a bit too concise. It does provide a broad outline of the biblical storyline, but you will need something more comprehensive for any details.
A good book by book synopsis of the topical information contained in the Bible.
Read the most important chapter of this book
Classic reference book.
Henry H. Halley
Wow!!! Read the Bible and have this at hand and watch your life be transformed!!! God is Good. God provides if we just receive His message.
1944 edition
I think its an amazing book
