https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33553.A_Stir_of_Echoes
When Tom Wallace's brother-in-law hypnotizes him at a party, he inadvertently wakens something in Tom. Now, Tom sees the ghost of a woman in a black dress and can sense peoples' thoughts.
But who is the woman in the black dress...?Sometime in that half-forgotten time before Goodreads, I went on a Richard Matheson binge and this is one of the books I read.
Since I'd forgotten most of it in the eons since I originally read it, it was like a whole new book.A Stir of Echoes is a ghost story but it's also about the secrets people keep hidden from one another.
You're sitting near the front....It is completely black inside.
It's black inside, absolutely black...Except for one thing.
Tom Wallace is living in a rented house with his pregnant wife -Anne- and his son- Richard.
Things are going pretty smoothly until the day his brother-in-law -Phil- visits, and the three adults go over to a neighbor's house for a little get together.
What was supposed to be just party trick- turns dark and frightening when Tom starts to have visions of a strange women in his house- and that is just the beginning...A STIR OF ECHOES is my first experience with a Richard Matheson novel.
An enjoyable novel about a man hypnotized at a party who then begins to exhibit psychic powers--including the recurrent appearances of a woman who may or may not be a ghost.
The movie is set in a gritty working class Chicago neighborhood in the '90's, among average Joes skeptical of psychic abilities; the novel is set in the '50's in a tract of post-war prefab housing that in spite of its blandness, newness and all American wholesomeness still provides a home for viciousness and a few dark secrets.
Richard Matheson has quickly become one of my favorites, he is a master of his genre. This is about psychic powers and telepathy and all rolled up into a classic ghost story. Published in 1958, it is refreshing to read a minimalistic work in an age of sensationalism and graphic detail. It is obvious how influential he has been to generations of writers after him, I think Stephen King must have put this book down and kept it close before writing The Dead Zone.
Richard Matheson (1926 - 2013)Thanks for the stories.Before I say anything about this classic bit of horror, I want to put a plug in for the film adaptation.
You won't even spoil Matheson's novel because the movie takes a very different approach to the story and the mystery.Now with that out of the way on to the book!
He takes the familiar, safe, boring 'burbs and all the white, middle-class people who abide there and introduces monsters.
It is a ghost story and a mystery and a peek into 1950's human psychology.
One note about the reader -- he is fantastic, and I think contributed a lot to my overall enjoyment of the story.
First publishes in 1958, A Stir of Echoes is Richard Matheson's third major work, the first two being the classic I Am Legend which guaranteed his literary immmortality, and The Incredible Shrinking Man, the classic horror novel with a man racing against literally increasing odds.The basic plot crux is very simple and the storyline doesn't deviate much from it: Tom Wallace agrees to undergo a hypnosis, as he believes he won't be affected by it.
A Stir of Echoes is not a bad novel, but it's not exceptional either; it should serve as a good way to spend an afternoon or two, but it's hardly to be a lifechanging experience.
I've since read as many short stories as I could get my hands on, strangely avoiding his novels (Legend is more a novella than a novel).
One of the neatest things about Richard Matheson (at least in his short work) is how no-nonsense his writing is.
Sometimes, you have to read his short stories twice just to figure out what the hell happened.
Finally, finally, things pick up, and then it's like the Matheson I know and love.
I like, heck, love, open-ended stories, ambiguous endings, but you clean forgot what your problem to be solved was.
Short stories, man.
Il sorriso dell'apparenza Soleggiata e ridente questa Tulley Street, classico quartiere di una medio-borghesia accogliente con i propri dirimpettai, prodiga nel mantenere verde il giardino e ingenuamente innocua quando scappano le due birrette il venerdì sera.L'ignoranza diventa salvifica per la nostra incolumità; le menzogne raccontante a noi e gli altri un indispensabile compromesso - questo è quello che ci ripetiamo ogni giorno - per sopravvivere.Perché dovremmo vivere con degli specchi in casa, quando non vedere è molto meglio?
I love reading Richard Matheson's stories.
I've seen the movie based on this book, before I knew it was a book, and before I'd ever read anything of Matheson's, and I enjoyed the movie.
But maybe that's for the best, because I was quite surprised by the direction the book took, and enjoyed it quite a lot.
I really like the deeper line of thought and questioning that runs through this book.
I like Matheson's theories on things, although I don't usually agree with them.
The mystery aspect of this book was a good one.
Anyway, I would definitely recommend this one for any fan of paranormal mysteries...
Brilliantly done. Quite a bit different from the amazing movie, with Kevin Bacon. Still, completely enjoyable, as it is a solid murder mystery with supernatural overtones that fair very well, even though it was written originally in 1958. The audiobook was narrated very, very well by Scott Brick.
This is one of my faves. Thinking about a re-read.
And I have yet to mention any number of gripping shorter pieces that I'd read by Matheson over the years; 1953's "Slaughter House" is a particularly fine example, and almost a warm-up for "Hell House." Given this faultless track record, I was thus particularly keen on reading Matheson's first out-and-out supernatural thriller, "A Stir of Echoes," especially after noticing a highly laudatory review of same in Newman & Jones' excellent overview volume "Horror: Another 100 Best Books." Originally released in 1958, when the New Jersey-born author was 32, his 5th novel has turned out to be, for this reader, still another winning creation.In "A Stir of Echoes," the reader encounters Tom Wallace, a 27-year-old aircraft-plant employee who lives in a SoCal suburb with his pregnant wife, Anne, and their young son.
This was pretty good. A very quick read about a guy who, after becoming hypnotized at a party, begins to experince some paranormal abilities. Matheson can tell a story, that's for sure, and since this one is told mostly via dialogue and first person narrative, you're finished before you know it. I don't really have a whole lot more to say about it because a) I'm really busy, and b) yeah, it's Matheson, so if you like him you'll like this.So, a short review for a 200 pager. I liked it. Recommended.
3.5 stars.Superb writing. Tom was most likeable and the descriptions of his experiences were vivid and real, a masterful blending of the everyday mundane and the incredible.However, the ending was neither one thing or the other; neither resolved or left open. Still, an excellent story and I liked that the film diverged from the plot of the novel and yet retained the essence of the tale. Both are worth checking out!
3-ish *s I think this was probably more of a "knock your socks off" experience when it was written 60 years ago.Reading it now, for me, not so much.
Tom Wallace and his wife Anne are your standard perfect 1950s couple.
They have one son, and another child on the way.
Tom has an average job, and the couple attend normal boring dinner parties at their neighbour's house.
I very much enjoyed this book, as I didn't know anything at all about it going into it.
I only found out about 3/4 of the way through that it's supposed to be a horror story- It really isn't scary, and that's coming from the biggest scaredy cat around.
It is a good thriller though, and it had me guessing what was going to happen next throughout.Now onto the film adaptation with Kevin Bacon!
Richard Matheson filled A Stir of Echoes with so much potential, but ultimately the book never delivered.
There is a lot of creepy and introspective paranormal stuff.
And an interesting cast of characters.
Where Matheson failed is by focusing on the abnormal happenings surrounding main character Tom, and not going into quite as much detail with the other characters.
When everything is said and done, this story really isn't about Tom, but throughout much of the book, we are led to believe it is.
Nonetheless, I am still a Matheson fan and plan to continue reading his work.
2.6...Iskreno se nadam da je ova bljutava mlaka kaša posledica lošeg prevoda.Metisonu dajem još jednu šansu.
A evening with friends and loved ones having fun playing games could take a turn for the worse, one person ends up in un-treaded waters and a countdown commence as the fabric around you peels away bit by bit.Knowing more than the average man can be a deadly weapon a torment if you have precognition's of something bad and it turns out exactly as you envisioned.
Except for one thing.
The letters up on the screen.
Tall, thin, white letters on the black, black screen.
They spell sleep.
Sleep.
Sleep.
Sleep.
Il paranormale che piomba addosso all'uomo comune.
La mente che si apre a percepire ogni cosa e l'individuo che lotta per non impazzire, non essere sopraffatto, imparare a gestire lo straordinario che irrompe nell'ordinario.Qualche ingenuità qua e là, una rapida carrellata di fenomeni psi che a tratti risulta un po' forzata, ma il tutto è comunque gestito in modo lineare, semplice ma comunque curato.
La storia magari non trasmette molti brividi, anche a causa di decenni di variazioni sul tema, siano essi letterari o cinematografici, ma la materia è trattata con efficacia quasi visiva, scorre come un film, e soprattutto non ha il tono spocchioso e didascalico di certi romanzi che sul paranormale sversano fiumi di parole promettendo chissà quali rivelazioni per poi lasciarti a bocca asciutta.
A masterful work of telekinetic and supernatural horror from one of the top masters in the field, the late Richard Matheson. This 1958, tight-as-a-drum novel is, like most of Matheson's work, taut and right to the point, able to be read in a single feverish sitting. Equal parts mystery, suspense novel, and outright horror, its occasionally slightly jarring 1958's setting doesn't obliterate the feeling that this story is a timeless one, only adds a few touches of sociology to a great tale. Absolutely recommended: one of the classics.
In occasione del gruppo-tour halloweeniano su Facebook --> Piuma&Calamaio - Suggerisci un libro  Io sono Helen Driscoll si presenta come una ghost-story, all'apparenza, ricca di suspense...
Esatto, soltanto all'apparenza perché di veri momenti da brivido non ce ne sono.
La narrazione in prima persona e la scorrevolezza del testo e dei dialoghi sono gli unici punti a suo favore, Matheson avrebbe potuto sfruttare meglio il potenziale della trama perché più che sull'aspetto paranormale sembra concentrarsi soltanto sull'introspezione del protagonista e dei personaggi comprimari che gli ruotano intorno.
Αυτό είναι το τρίτο βιβλίο του Ρίτσαρντ Μάθεσον που διαβάζω, μετά τα εξαιρετικά "Ζωντανός θρύλος" και "Το στοίχειωμα", και αυτό με την σειρά του μου άφησε πολύ καλές εντυπώσεις.Ο αφηγητής της ιστορίας μας, Τομ Γουάλας, ευτυχισμένος οικογενειάρχης και εργαζόμενος, ένα βράδυ υπνωτίστηκε από τον αδερφό της γυναίκας του, σε μια συνάθροιση γειτόνων, έτσι για πλάκα.
Πόσο επικίνδυνες είναι όμως αυτές οι δυνάμεις; Πραγματικά πολύ καλό βιβλίο, εξαιρετικά καλογραμμένο, που ναι μεν δεν τρομάζει ιδιαίτερα, προσφέρει όμως κάποιες ανατριχίλες, αποδίδει ρεαλιστικά και πολύ ωραία την ζωή στα προάστια και έχει ενδιαφέροντες χαρακτήρες, ανθρώπους της διπλανής μας πόρτας.
However in 2010 when we have the amount of HORROR thrown at us in the media, film and the written word today, it was much less so.
However, it does give a nice Thrill and somethingTo think about!
This may not be out and out horror butIt did have some thrills and chills to offer!
In fact I did not Know when this was written until after I read it and the .50 cent issue was really the only thing that stood out as something definitely from years ago!
Definitely worth a read.
Audiobook read by Scott Brick Scott Brick gets 5 stars for narration. He reads this novel so well, it seems like he becomes the characters. (I might be scared if I was his wife.)I enjoy a good, spooky, novel and A Stir of Echoes was just that.....spoo-ooo-ky! I did have a "scooby-doo moment" near the end of the story. I think I heard: "I would have gotten away with it, too, if it wasn't for you meddling kids." Something like that, anyway.
See the movie that is loosely based on the book (starring Kevin Bacon). It is much edgier and more effective than the book. Even if you like Matheson (which I do...I think...), this book comes across as being quaint (written in the '50s) and predictable.
Me di cuenta de lo que estaba leyendo a las pocas páginas, y casi me arrepiento de no revisar de qué va un libro antes de empezarlo.
Solo me chirriaba algún pequeño detalle, como por ejemplo: ¿por qué narices no contactas antes con tu cuñado, sí, ese que te hipnotizó?
(Se llega a entrever al final, pero con la importancia que se le había dado en su momento, es un poco frustrante que el autor no vuelva a mencionarlo de manera directa).A pesar de ello, es una lectura entretenida, al más puro estilo casa encantada.
My God but this was dull. It made me start a new shelf for movies that are better than the books they're based on, because after years it's difficult to keep them sorted in my head.
Recensione qui:https://sognotrailibri.blogspot.it/20...
Tom Wallace is an office-worker everyman, newly moved into a rented house on Tulley Street in Hawthorne with his heavily-pregnant wife Anne and their young son Richard.
It seems almost churlish to mention it but whilst a couple of aspects are dated, as is only to be expected, they add a level of charm to a story that is as rich and vibrant as if were published last year.
The characterisation is spot on - we find out a lot of details as the story moves on but there are no false notes at all - and you really care about Tom, Anne and baby Richard, whilst sympathising heavily with Elizabeth.
