https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764434.Shroud_for_a_Nightingale
“Shroud for a Nightingale,” is set in a nurse training school and P D James worked for the NHS for many years, so it is an environment she would have been extremely familiar with.The story begins with Miss Muriel Beale, an Inspector who is setting out for the day of the John Carpendar Hospital inspection.
When another student nurse is killed, Adam Dalgliesh is called in to solve the crimes.This is an assured mystery, with a closed community and a great cast of characters; from the arrogant surgeon, Mr Stephen Courtney Briggs to super efficient matron, Mary Taylor and the Sisters and Nurses who live and work in Nightingale House.
It has 1950s gender sensibilities (the assumption that a woman, once married, will end her career or her studies), it has that obsession with spinsters so irresistible to British mystery writers ("she was a thin, brown-skinned woman, brittle and nobbly as a dead branch who looked as if the sap had long since dried in her bones"), and it still features the generalized misanthropy that Christie seemed to bequeath to the genre; nearly all the suspects are hateful, bitter, or piteous in some way.Perhaps the most appealing aspect of Shroud is that Inspector Dalgliesh becomes a fully-realized character: chilly, exacting, self-aware, with large reserves of self-esteem and compassion; thoroughly likeable.
Είναι η 5η περιπέτεια του αστυνόμου της Scotland Yard (και ποιητή) Adam Dalgliesh και η δική μου πρώτη γνωριμία μαζί του.
Η συγγραφέας είναι φειδωλή στις λεπτομέρειες της ζωής του αστυνόμου αλλά καθόλου φειδωλή στην απόδοση των σκέψεων του.Σαν σύνολο, το βιβλίο ήταν εξαιρετικό.
Κάποιες αδυναμίες του είχαν να κάνουν με τον διακαή πόθο κάθε συγγραφέα αστυνομικού μυστηρίου να κρύψει καλά το δολοφόνο από τις μαντικές ικανότητες του αναγνώστη.
Υπήρχαν μερικές άχρηστες σκηνές, μερικοί διάλογοι και συναντήσεις χωρίς νόημα αλλά το αποτέλεσμα ήταν να μην πάει το μυαλό καθόλου στο πραγματικό αίτιο των φόνων και στο δολοφόνο.
Αντίθετα, απόλαυσα τις περιγραφές που ήταν πολύ ζωντανές.
This was another great Adam Dalgliesh story. I am taking the series slow so that I can enjoy what P.D. James left us.This story takes place at a nurses training school. A place that is full of secrets and lies. Read this story and see why James was an award winning crime author.
Boredom, too, is the only reason I can give for my finishing it -- I was mesmerized by how entirely uninteresting it was, both the story and the literary style.I don't read mysteries, and essentially all of my related presumptions are based on Cluedo and The Westing Game, but even compared to those, Shroud for a Nightingale is kind of a dud.
So two student nurses are killed, the Scotland Yard is called in, and the blurb promises that "a secret medical world of sex, shame, and scandal is about to be exposed." But most of the book is spent discussing hospital administration.
I had heard of P.D. James before but had never read any of her works, and I didn't really know she wrote mysteries.
So I was quite pleasantly surprised by Shroud for a Nightingale--so much so that I've since read another James and am onto a third.
I defy anyone to come up with something inherently scarier than a British nursing school in the 70s where all the nurses where classic nurse uniforms, the school itself is something of a gothic mansion, and even relatively routine medical procedures like inserting a feeding tube take on an intensely macabre character.
I am not a good mystery reader in that I can never figure anything out until the author reveals it.
P.D. James seems to frequently drift across the line into hating everybody.
The men in James' world tend to be pompous, self-absorbed, preening narcissists, but they are almost nice compared to the women.
It is about a group of women who work and live together in a rather small space and a veneer of niceness covers a lot of animosity.
Readers familiar with the conventions of the mystery genre may guess the solution, but I think James here is more interested in exploring the dark corners of her characters than with presenting a puzzle.
PD James writes masterful mysteries that are intelligent and interesting.
I think PD James set out to write exactly the type of mystery I described in the second sentence.
And sometimes that is exactly the type of book/mystery that I want, a puzzle for your mind, not a story for your heart.
That being said, that type of book won't ever get 5 stars from me no matter how skilled the writing because it's not the life altering kind of book, nor the: I read the whole series in 3 days...couldn't stop...cried when....type of book, if you know what I mean.
I was reading this, and it was all about par for the course for PD James - you know, unpleasant people, beautiful writing, OTT foreshadowings of horror to come, rather odd emphasis on period architecture - when suddenly it was all UNEXPECTED DANCE COMPETITION SURPRISE NAZIS. I would never have thought that any author could make the revelation of surprise Nazis during a tense and angry tango incredibly depressing, but PD James managed it. Well done.
Nursing students living in a creepy old hospital building find murder and lots of intrigue; erudite, old-fashioned closed-community/manor house style mystery but with interesting modern (~1970) twists and a bit of then-relevant British history; classic cosy police procedural.Nursing "sisters" are an alien breed to most US folks, but if you've read or watched a lot of British-set mysteries you'll have a bit of understanding how their ranking system for nurses and doctors works; the plot of this intricate mystery is closely woven around this, with the information presented slowly and interestingly.
Hooked me in. Was an engaging mystery but it was nowhere as cozy as a Christie. Sometimes was a bit disturbing even...
מפקח הסקוטלנד יארד, אדם דלגליש, חוזר לפענח תעלומות מוות בבית נייטנג'ל.
מוסד הצמוד לבית חולים בו מתמחות אחיות.שתי אחיות בתהליך התלמדות נרצחות: התר פירס, מתה מוות ביסורים בעת הדגמה של תהליך הזנת מטופל.
כוס הויסקי שהיא נהגה לשתות לפני השינה הורעלה.אדם דלגליש החוקר הידוע, מגיע לזירה ונחשף לסודות מהעבר, שקרים ורמאויות.
די גיימס אינם קיצביים ולמעט אקט הרצח אין בהם אירועים סוערים כמו המותחנים של הרלן קובן.
מאידך, הם מספקים התבוננות לנפש האדם, למניעים המוסריים שלו ולנפשו של החוקר.
המותחן הזה לא שונה במובן זה והוא מספק הצצה לחיי קהילת הנשים שבבית נייטנגל.מבחינת עומק ניכרת בו התקדמות בולטת לעומת מותחנים הראשונים שכתבה פי די גיימס.
Wow! James outdid herself this time! Really, really enjoyed this one! She keeps getting better. I don't deny that I struggled with the first one, but I'm so glad that I stuck it out. It really helps to have a friend to read it with. Inspector Dalgliesh's character keeps coming out more and more in each subsequent novel and he becomes more intriguing the longer you know him. I also like how James just gives you tidbits of insight into him with each book; she keeps you coming back for more!Started: 24 May 2008
All relationships are in this novel invariably either casual and superficial or toxic, intimacy is a form of imprisonment in every single situation as far as I can see.This was the early 70s, so the beginning of the cult of the individual, the overly cynical and dehumanising psychological turn which pathologised anything we might have liked to think of as a virtue or truly relational so James would not have been alone in this world-view and she writes it compellingly.
Μόνο που οφείλω να υπογραμμίσω ότι σε αντίθεση με τη Κρίστι, η οποία δίνει μεγάλη σημασία στην αλληλουχία των γεγονότων και στα επιφανειακά χαρακτηριστικά της ανθρώπινης προσωπικότητας, η Τζέιμς γνωρίζει τον τρόπο να διεισδύει , ακόμα, και στις πιο σκοτεινές πλευρές της ανθρώπινης ψυχής.Το συγκεκριμένο αστυνομικό μυθιστόρημα είναι μια προσεκτική και εμπνευσμένη μελέτη χαρακτήρων, η οποία, σταδιακά, μέσα από τις λεπτές αντιθέσεις που παρουσιάζει η συγγραφέας, οδηγούν τον φλεγματικό, ωστόσο, προσαρμοστικό και οξυδερκή ντετέκτιβ, Άνταμ Νταλγκλίς στη πολύπλοκη λύση του μυστηρίου.
Not horrible horrible but pretty typical mystery fare in that the ending may as well be detached from the rest of the book because the rest of the book isn't important.EDIT: After thinking about it some more, decreased my rating to 1 star because of the above and1) The ending is absolute nonsense.
The motives given make no sense, the story of the identity of a character makes no sense and the entire book requires several characters to have acted with no intelligence or thought at all, even ignoring the typical mystery trope of "oh they avoided an easier way because of X unlikely idiosyncrasy"2) The main character is dull as ditchwater.
In the midst of reading my second Colin Dexter novel, I realized that I found it boring, so when I received Shroud of the Nightingale in the mail, I eagerly read it, only to discover that while I thought I had read all of the Dalgliesh series, I had actually missed this one.
Add to that that I really am finding Dalgliesh to be incredibly unattractive as the protagonist, and the characters are hard to sympathize with (except for Morag--masterful) that this book too did not live up to the initial first half.
James actually is coarse at times, which she wasn't in previous books.
A nursing school inspection ends horribly with the death of a student during a demonstration of intra-gastric feeding tubes.
This gruesome beginning is compounded with a second student death, and the local police are exchanged for the Yard’s Inspector Adam Dalgliesh whose implacable determination to get at the truth is welcomed by the nursing staff with varying degrees of coolness.I’m not sure where in the series this one falls, but this Dalgliesh novel was just a bit too staid and dated to hold my attention properly.
I still enjoyed Dalgliesh, and the moments of progress of the investigation, but for all the swiftness of his deductions it still felt like an extraordinarily long read.
Dalgliesh is a detective, and in this story he is called out to a nurse training school after two suspected murders take place.
Two student nurses have been poisoned in horrific ways, and its Dalgliesh's job to figure out who did it.This book is a pretty typical murder mystery.
It goes into a lot of depth with character's backstories, and there are entire chapters dedicated to detectives questioning suspects about their movements and whereabouts during the murders.
It was definitely enjoyable - I found myself struggling to try and figure out who was the killer.
And that is the essential flaw of the novel; the actual plot and its resolution are straight out of the golden age of detective fiction, while the modernization efforts are almost entirely more graphic descriptions of the sexual politics that were only coded into the classic stories.
It would take another novel or so for James to truly hit her stride with Dalgliesh and make him an actual inhabitant of his world.
#4 Adam Dalgliesh British mystery, in which the Scotland Yard detective and his team are off to a nursing school to investigate the untimely death of two nursing students--both dead by poison of different types a couple of weeks apart.
The second death of Nurse Fallon was at first thought to be suicide as the poison was in her bedtime whisky and lemon.
An interesting study on life in an English nursing school in the early70's--very different than my own American nursing education that started about ten years later.
It was nicely written not tiring or boring at all.
Also a thing that i really liked is the way the writer described the different personalities without being subjective and the fact that all these different personalities were interacting with each other throughout the book with all king of intresting behaviors that you do not usually find in most books.i would also like to point out that Mrs P.D. James was 90 years old when she wrote this book and this is so admirable!
I wish i can be that wise and well-minded at this age.
Good, verging on very good, although a bit too mannered and slow. Very deep psychological portrayals of the characters provide the big win. The plot was nicely convoluted, although the denouement wasn't much of a surprise. This was among the books listed on an ancient "all-time bests" newspaper clipping I found in my files. I think anyone who is a fan of mysteries should probably have already read it, right?
Impresionante, merecería más estrellas.
D. James (Shroud For a Nightingale p 170)I’m beginning to wonder what’s happening to nursing.
D. James (Shroud For a Nightingale p 198)I suppose a surgeon is rather like a lawyer.
D. James (Shroud For a Nightingale p 204)You can’t run a nurse training school like a psychiatric unit.
D. James (Shroud For a Nightingale p 272)“I know that I wanted to make love to a woman.
D. James (Shroud For a Nightingale p 273) I know she could.
D. James (Shroud For a Nightingale p 278)He wasn’t particularly interested in people.
D. James (Shroud For a Nightingale p 327)I like that smell, sir.
E foi essa diferença que me foi desmotivando para a leitura e fez com que eu arrastasse o livro ao longo de duas penosas semanas.Foram vários os aspetos que tornaram a leitura confusa, desinteressante e aborrecida:1) O elevado número de personagens: Médicos, enfermeiras, estudantes de enfermagem, polícias, porteiro e outras que foram surgindo lá pelo meio, foram tantas e nem sempre com grande relevância para a história e que apareceram de passagem que cheguei a uma altura em que tive dificuldade em reconhecê-las e em identificar a sua posição na narrativa e nas relações que estabeleciam.
P.D James has a very distinctive writing style and I've always looked forward to reading her books.Her series featuring Adam Dalgliesh, a Scotland Yard detective, has been engrossing. So imagine my disappointment with this fourth book. Despite a promising introduction, I quickly lost interest. Although it can almost be considered a historical mystery with its outdated setting, that wasn't the problem. I just didn't manage to immerse myself in the story and it's simply because I hate quiting a book that I managed to read it to the end.
But as I work my way through the Dalgleish mysteries, I'm finding that I don't make a huge effort to solve the case; I just dive in, enjoying the intensely British settings and characters.
I don't know how she does it, but P.D. James always manages to find plausible settings for her "locked room" mysteries -- where the suspects circle each other warily, confined, with a murderer in their midst, to a manor house, an isolated village, or in this case, a teaching hospital set on the grounds of a creepy Victorian estate:It was a night of violent but erratic storm, the wind varying in intensity and even in direction from hour to hour.
Wonderfully written; odd to read an earlier book and be able to pick up on how it's put together. There's information near the end, for example, that should have been presented earlier in order to be strictly fair, but would have given too much away if presented earlier on. So be it: it's kind of neat to see a master at work.
Kesti pitkään ennen kuin jaksoin kiinnostua kirjasta niin paljon että viitsin lukea sitä pitempiä pätkiä. Ja silloinkin ehkä kaikista kiinnostavampia oli henkilöhahmojen persoonallisuudet ja motiivit, kuin muut seikat.
