https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/471850.The_Red_Right_Hand
They picked up a hitchhiker, a man the investigators of the crime will come to know as Corkscrew for his unusual gait when walking.
These separate events can be pieced together to show the killer’s movements after the murder of St Erme.
The odd thing is that Dr Riddle, whose car had broken down at the turn-off to the Swamp Road, should have seen the murder car, but he didn’t.The entire book follows the thought processes of Dr Riddle as he tries to put the pieces of the puzzle together.
The writing is a pseudo-stream-of-consciousness style that owes as much to Henry James and William Faulkner as it does to Bierce’s “Incidence at Owl Creek Bridge” and Poe’s “Tell-Tale Heart.” And there are no chapters, so the book flows on like a torrential river; you may realize this too late, when you’re already swept into its hold and have no choice but to ride it out to the end.The Red Right Hand is a hypnotic and illusory stew of key elements: constant repetition of motifs and themes, the power of Roger’s impressive vocabulary, a gripping opening sequence and gruesome murder, a pace both breathless and unstoppable.
It’s the only book anybody remembers by the long-forgotten Joel Townsley Rogers, who was a prolific writer of short stories for the pulps from the twenties through the forties.It tells the tale of a single hallucinatory summer evening in rural Connecticut, where a young surgeon named Henry Riddle has his car break down on a remote road just before sundown, hikes to the first house he finds, and is drawn into a harrowing crime involving a sinister dwarfish tramp who has taken a smoke-gray Cadillac on a murderous joyride after killing its owner, a wealthy New Yorker who was eloping with a pretty secretary.
This acclaimed crime novel was less satisfying to me than it apparently is to a lot of people.
The search for a murder victim and a twisted dwarf of a murderer depends far too much on coincidence and characters guessing right for me, and the author's almost faux poetic style irritated me.
I'm sure this was author Rogers's intent, but it, along with the weird character names, made it a bit of a slog for me.
It's a great favorite novel of several people I respect, so other readers may love it as well.
A must reading for mystery fans.Though the first 30 or 40 pages are a bit slow, it becomes a page turner after that and definitely unputdownable.The story is told in first person, the narrator being Dr. Henry Riddle, a brain surgeon.Inis St. Erme and his fiancée Elinor Darrie are heading for Vermont in a car to get married.
It may be necessary to reread it to comprehend it fully and realize its brillianceIt may be regarded as a locked room/impossible crime mystery.There are basically two impossibilities here.Several witnesses see the speeding car on the main country road with the maniac looking tramp at the wheel and the dead or dying body of St. Erme besides him.
Rod Serling Meets HitchcockA corpse with a missing hand, sightings of a twisted gnome driving a sleek convertible, the lone hitchhiker on a deserted highway comes straight from a nightmare's central casting.
"The Red Right Hand", written in 1945, fresh and jolting in the 21st century, must have absolutely rocked the literary world of its day with this strangely creepy tale of young love gone impossibly wrong.
Dr. Harry Riddle finds himself implicated in the murder of Innis St. Erme, a young New York businessman who had set off to New England to elope with his bride-to-be when a roadside picnic takes a terrible turn.
This is kind of a ridiculous book.
That the author wrote for pulps is evident throughout, as the book is lurid and sensationalistic in the extreme.
I can't say I ENJOYED this novel, for reading it was not especially entertaining.
The atmosphere is one of dread, rather as if one is in a nightmare from which they can't awake.
But I kept reading to find out what the whole thing meant.
This book is no masterpiece, but it is certainly unusual.
(Incidentally, I was surprised to note that it wasn't broken up into chapters; I can't recall reading another novel with that distinction.)
This expanded novella is told in a nightmarish stream-of-consciousness first person narration as a doctor attempts to rationalize a wild abduction and murder that he should have witnessed, but did not. The narrator lays out an impossible crime scenario and arrives at a fantastic solution which would be much less satisfying with its reliance on coincidence if this tale were told in the more objective third person. Roger's viewpoint choice instead makes for a suspenseful fantastic read that leaves a little ambiguity to the reader as to the veracity of the narrator.
Its not a bad read but I don’t think I would recommend it to friends and family. If you do happen to start it, then I would highly recommend that you see it through and finish it. Don’t quit on this book.
雖然最後看破真相的方式有點扯（這推理太飛躍了），可是還是很好看，因為整部作品的氛圍很讚，不乏詩意。而且我徹底被誤導了XDDD
One of the most fiendishly plotted mysteries I have ever read. Reading this story you swim through an entire school of red herrings. It’s well worth taking the plunge.
The author runs full tilt at the plot, pulling the reader along with him, and keeps going, the pace never slackening, until finally, finally, he skids to a halt at the end of the novel, leaving the reader breathless and astonished at the audacity of the conclusion.” - Christine Poulson, author of Murder Is Academic “The Red Right Hand abides by no rules and leaves you flabbergasted as to how such a fiendish novel could ever be assembled by a sane mind.” - Cullen Gallagher, Pulp Serenade “...an eccentric and truly unforgettable book that combines complex yet unfussy prose with a weird and wonderful plot to produce a really distinctive and distinguished work.” - Tipping My Fedora “Seriously great pulp fiction.” - Keith Rawson, The Chaos We Know and Laughing at Dead Men-------------------------------My take.........I don’t really know what to say about this one TBH.
Sì, perché, se il libro è presentato come "una girandola di indizi, false piste, enigmi e colpi di scena", è fisiologico pensare che ogni particolare, ogni nome, ogni personaggio nasconda un indizio fondamentale.Infatti il giovane dottore che narra la storia si presenta subito come Henry N.
Davvero non ha visto passare la Cadillac guidata dall'assassino, quell'ometto dagli occhi e capelli rossi, che aveva accanto il giovane St. Erme appena ucciso?
Ma l'unico punto fermo rimane quello: Riddle non ha visto la Cadillac.Solo alla fine, dopo un racconto talvolta intricato, che costringe il lettore a fare la massima attenzione ai dettagli, capiremo l'importanza fondamentale di quell'unico punto fermo.
A half-dozen witnesses saw the car, with St. Erme slumped to the side, his arm hanging down against the door, but Riddle did not.The horror would not be real until they found St. Erme’s body, and it was Riddle himself that found it, as a hastily assembled group searched the swamp near where the car was discovered.
An arm without a hand.The reader can see as well as Riddle that all the signs point to one man as the killer.
Rogers’ aim seems to have been to a tell a tale that is as full as possible with feints, sleights, red herrings, twists and turns, and contradictory evidence, as Dr Henry Riddle recounts the story of an eloping young couple who pick up a hitchhiker on a lonely road, the resulting murder, and the investigation that leads to other deaths.
The result is a story where the reader is aware that the tale will only work if they become duplicit in the charade, suspending any kind of realism and continue knowing that they cannot believe anything until the final few pages.
Forse la cosa migliore per dare a tutti coloro che sono abbastanza sfortunati da non averlo ancora letto, un assaggio di quel che offre, è elencare alcuni dei suoi ingredienti di base: un brutto assassino dagli occhi rossi e con un orecchio lacerato, di nome Corkscrew, che sembra non esistere...
E una simile lista potrebbe anche suggerire un'atmosfera da incubo, la natura allucinatoria di ciò che succede, ma di sicuro non tiene in considerazione un aspetto che è tra i più straordinari del libro: Rogers come scrittore, con la sua prosa torrenziale, inarrestabile...Dopo una partenza a tutto vapore fin dalle prime pagine, il ritmo non cala nmmeno per un paragrafo delle 190 pagine del romanzo, e si viene trascinati in questa implacabile piena, fino ad un confronto decisivo e sanguinoso che risulta praticamente indimenticabile.
Written in 1945, the story itself feels like reading a script from a Hitchcock movie.
The setting, a couple on their way getting married, and ending up in a nightmarish mystery after picking up a hitchhiker, contains all the elements of a who-dun-it crossed with something from the twilight zone, where everything feels not quite right.
The style of writing is great and at times reminded me of one of Ray Bradbury's stories.
There is quite some twist at the end, which can be fun guessing at while reading the book, but even without it, the story is strong enough to capture your full attention.
The Red Right Hand (1945)Joel Townsley Rogers (1896-1984) Crime (191 pp.)Around 1944 (WWII rationing is in effect); Dead Bridegroom Pond and Swamp Road in northern rural ConnecticutFirst person narration of odd murder.
Niggling fact of missing right hand of (original) victim sets things off.Semi-Random Semi-Representative Sample:I’m not sure which of those items worried him the more at the moment.
Reminds me of: A little of Gone Girl, a little of The Murder of Roger Ackroyd.
It’s so, so well done, though.
Much better than the Gone Girl thing.
Too bad it’s not in print.
An almost indescribably strange novel, probably best called "post-modern" before its time, and featuring an unreliable narrator who may better be called an un-unreliable narrator. This novel is a strange and unique little entry into the library of crime fiction, and it reminded me in some ways of that other bizarre classic, IT HAPPENED IN BOSTON. I didn't find this book "creepy" or "terrifying," as advertised, but I did think it was clever and a lot of fun, and if you believe you've read every form of "whodunit" under the sun then THE RED RIGHT HAND is for you.
I have read probably several hundred mystrey stories and unfortunetly most are not very good. This one is one of my favorites. It is the only work by this author that I know of, and has been chosen as one of the best by many great readers and authors over the years, for good reason. It is all about perspective. The story is written in one perspective and given another at the end. It is well done, though not a typical mystery. Certainly it should be found and read by any one who enjoys a good mystery story.
I picked this book up after reading an interview with Charlie Kaufman where he said that this book had a big influence on his writing style. Reminded me of the can't-put-down mysteries I used to read as a kid, but there's an interesting twist, of course. Somewhat reminiscent of a Hitchcock movie. Originally published in 1945, so the manner of speech may seem a bit dated, but I would recommend this for lovers of a good, crooked mystery.
This book was a quick, entertaining read. The story of a murder that takes place on a country road and the doctor who tries to piece together exactly what happens, it has a vaguely hallucinatory feel and a nice pacing.Unfortunately, I felt like the resolution left too many unanswered questions, inconsistencies and dubious coincidences to make it one of the truly great mystery novels.
I usually don't dig mysteries, they're predictable and boring. But this one? Dang. There's a reason it's a timeless classic. I couldn't put it down and it left me shocked and surprised. I loved this book very much.
So fun! So misleading! I had almost given up on ever reading a good twist ending again, but this 1945 pulp thriller restored my faith. The narrative style recalls the movie Memento. Highly recommended for retro mystery fans.
Gripping suspence from start to finish! Lots of gore!
One of the strangest books I have ever read. Recommended on that fact alone. Whether it is "good" or not has yet to be determined!
Masterpiece, halfway between the mystery novel (Locked Room) and the Horror novel.
Just a really, really good thriller with tons of red herrings. I was almost put off, but I stuck with it and am glad I did!
Classic mystery- was a great airport read :-)
Amazing. A suspenseful and disorienting mystery that creates an atmosphere of dread with surrealistic elements. A pity this is such an anomaly of the genre. Another gem from yesteryear - 1945.
