https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1059681.The_Day_It_Rained_Forever
I hadn't before thought of Ray Bradbury as such a good writer -- a good ideas person, but I hadn't thought of his stories as well-crafted, tight, polished things.
These ones definitely are: they held me spellbound; I read them all at once.
I cared less for some of the stories, but all of them kept me reading, and most of them kept me wondering...
Wondering what happened before, or what will happen after, or both.
I think the post-apocalyptic story set in Mexico held me spellbound most securely: there's a kind of breathless futility about it that tightens and tightens until the end of the story.
Ok, this is the last one I'm reviewing, but the actual story "The Day it Rained Forver" is amazing. You will feel like you are crying on another planet.
I was about to give this two stars as the stories are in my opinion partly unconvincing and some of them didn't quite resonate with me; the lack of (strong?) female characters (yes, I know, it's a 50s book, still, it itches me) can be quite annoying at times as every woman who appears is a) a mother b) a girlfriend (to be) or c) a wife - and I can't make my mind up about the "reverse racism" story wherein white people are persecuted/discriminated against/collectively despised - are those supposed to give white people a glance of what racism looks like?
But then, of course, the major part of the stories is beautifully constructed, rich in detail and imagination, and like any good (short) fiction many left me in want of much more of the worlds Bradbury constructs.
When young read a lot of Bradbury, and now 're-visiting him decades later am even more impressed with his imagination, future visions, and clear flowing story telling that (mostly) predicted a positive space age that opened the cosmos to adventure. Underpinning many of his tales with the myths associated with stereotypical small town America , he captures both the longing and irony of mid 20th Century " good life " . I enjoyed this so much I am off in search of some Dandelion Wine.....
Loved it. Don't know why it's not more popular.
Ok so this book was really good! I read it in 1 day and it did not take me that long! It was a fantastic read! Highly Recommended! :P
“I remember once, when I lived in the Capital for a month and bought the paper fresh each day, I went wild with love, anger, irritation, frustration; all of the passions boiled in me.
I was young.
I exploded at everything I saw.
But then I saw what I was doing: I was believing what I read.
Have you noticed?
You believe a paper printed on the very day you buy it?
This has happened but only an hour ago, you think!
It must be true.' He shook his head.
'So I learned to stand back away and let the p
In The Wonderful Ice Cream Suit three young Mexican Americans with no money, no jobs, few friends have nothing going on in their collective lives, only dreams.
The Time Of Going Away is a story of an adventurous old man who has focused more on living than dying but sees dying as perhaps life’s biggest adventure.
The Headpiece is a story about fantasy and reality and how it impacts the way people approach life in denial or meeting it head-on.
My love for intergalactic atmospheres and fantasy setting is not strong in the first place but with Bradbury you can expect beautiful writing, mental stimulation, and nostalgia but there was not enough horror elements in the stories.
Some really great gems in here
Each story is shaking me with the depth of imagination and surprising sci-fi ingredients poured into them.
My favourite yet, "In a Season of Calm Weather" tells the story of George Smith, a Picasso fan to death, who never had the 5000 bucks to own a painting, meeting him surprisingly in his calm summer vacation drawing a masterpiece on the sand.
He can only watch that beauty, not own it, not go run and get a camera to immortalize it, but only to watch it and live it at that moment.
He had nothing to tell anybody after that magical moment.
Bradbury is officially in my Top 5 favorite authors. Another great book by a word artist.
I'm a big fan of short stories, and this is a real mixture, with some science fiction, some not, some good, some less so. A few of these have a kind of "literary" floweriness that for me is annoying most of the time, but they're all well-constructed, and most are interesting. The science fiction stories are, unsurprisingly, dated now, and there are a couple of quite scary horror stories that work pretty well too.
This is one of the best short story collections. Generally I find short stories very incomplete and well (frankly) meaningless and so a bit of a waste of time. Bradbury, however is a master of the art. The stories in this collection all spoke volumes, were beautifully written and were incredibly thought provoking. I have definitely become a fan.
There are some gems in there. "And the Rock Cried Out" wrenched at my heart.
This is classic old Bradbury and has many stories that have been adapted to television, chapbooks, comics and many other areas.
But rereading them was a pleasure as many are classics.Here There be Tygers, The Wonderful Ice-Cream Suit, Fever Dream, The Dragon, and The Smile are some standouts, and they are all different.
One is a typical sf space story, another is a fantastical urban tale, a couple have horror elements, and one is a sf "what if?" possible future history.This collection borders more on the science fiction and fantasy side of Bradbury over his dark tales, and is an easily recommend collection: classic stuff here.

Meh.Perhaps I expected too much.
Bradbury has a lot of followers.
I like vintage SF and short stories.
Wyndham is a master.
Most left me feeling cheated.
The stories certainly dragged you on - can't deny the boy can write.
But then they'd end and you're left wondering why you'd been on the ride.
A couple were more rich- The town where no one got off was a bit better and And the rock cried out.
Even they felt strained though.
Glad I only paid $1 at a fund raiser.
How did he get from this to Fahrenheit 451?!
Ah yes, what can I say about Ray Bradbury that hasn't already been said, a million times, a million ways? The Day It Rained Forever is yet another timeless collection of short stories from one of the best writers of the 20th century. Read it. You won't be disappointed.
An excellent collection of stories by the master, Ray Bradbury. I liked this one the best of all the bunch, except for The Martian Chronicles, my favourite. There is a wonderful MC-like story in here, too, called "Dark They Were and Golden Eyed". A great variety of stories with a wonderful Twilight-Zone quality of wonder, morality and the dawning Space Age.
This is a fantastic short story collection from Ray Bradbury that, although marketed as science-fiction, is often plain social satire and yet just as engaging. With only two below par stories - the titular one and the narrative about racism - the rest of them are great, in particular 'In a Season of Calm Weather'.
A well-written but rather repetitive dark and quirky angle on life with some science fiction thrown in. The 50's perspective on the USA (short) stories didn't go down well with me, but for brief reads, interesting in some cases.
Since it is the end of the month, one of my book clubs will be starting a group read in a day or two. A collection of short stories seemed to just the ticket! Disappointingly , although these are beautifully written, they are just not for me.
I didn't love every single story, but there are some gorgeous stories here that make it worth reading. "In a Season of Calm Weather", "the End of the Beginning", and "a Scent of Sarsparilla" are beautiful and I'll probably return to read them again.
This is my first Bradbury book, and I can't say that I loved it but at the same time I did enjoy it so I'm going to go ahead and jump into what is supposed to be his masterpiece, Fahrenheit 451, to see if it lives up to the hype.
I love dropping in Bradbury occasionally for a nice, nostalgic fix.
I love Ray Bradbury more and more every time. Pretty much the only sci fi I can read. First few and last story weren't great for me, but overall it's sublime writing and original ideas. Loved it.
ordered 3/7/2012
Wonderful collection of short stories by Ray Bradbury. These are perfect night time reading when you are unwilling to commit to a longer read.
brilliant
Not my favorite Bradbury collection, but that isn't saying much.
Most of these stories I'd read before--almost all of them, I think--and none of them were ones that really stood out to me. Ah well.
