https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16062211-the-proposition
The story was going smoothly. I was so proud of Aidan for truly trying and manning up. Then at 91%..... Then at 92%..... Then at 93%..... Then at 94%.....     WooooooSaahhhhhhh NO I AM NOT FINE! That dirty little thing who calls himself a man did the unimagnible (in my opinion) and the WORST part is I still fucking love him!  I just want to rip him to shreads! HOW COULD YOU!!!!   And now I have to wait?!?!?! I have to wait to see how he begs and redeems himself to us all?!?!?!? Ashley.... Pleas
The story was going smoothly.
I was so proud of Aidan for truly trying and manning up.
WooooooSaahhhhhhh
NO I AM NOT FINE!
That dirty little thing who calls himself a man did the unimagnible (in my opinion) and the WORST part is I still fucking love him!
I just want to rip him to shreads!
And now I have to wait?!?!?!
I have to wait to see how he begs and redeems himself to us all?!?!?!?
Ashley....
for the love of all things chocolate....
give me the next book.....
I started out grinning from ear to ear and loving where everything was going, totally looking forward to his character's growth and change and, especially once those started, my heart started to feel whole, but his commitment issues really tore at my heart and frustrated me.At 90% I was ready to slap him.At 94% I just wanted to throttle him.At 95% I was ready to throw my kindle at him and tell him to go fuck himself.At 96% I just wanted to hug Emma and geld him (and no, trust me, I'm not being too harsh, just read it, you'll want to do the same thing)But.....
I love stories of characters who are able to catch themselves before they go too far, realize they are on the wrong path and do everything in their power to make things right again so I'm very, very, VERY much looking forward to book #2.With MUCH.
That only makes the hero weak and flickery and speaks volumes of the lack of ability of a huge majority of self-published erotica authors to create drama that doesn't involve a separation from the couple.UPCOMING RANT!You must know that I became addicted to romance when I discovered the twilight books in my eleventh birthday.
So what's the point of reading a "romance" book if the hero will act like any cliched TV Manwhore?
Most romances on KU are like this one and still get good ratings so I'm perhaps too much into unrealistic heroes, to understand why this book has such high rating.
DNF at 50 %. I will refrain from rating this book. Although I was looking forward to reading The Proposition, I ended up disappointed once again. Sadly, the book could not live up to my high expectations.What did not work for meI was aware that The Proposition dealt with Em’s ticking biological clock. In addition, I was also aware of the fact that it was not quite believable. Yet I was sure that I could have dealt with it. Having said this, there are just too many issues that ruined the book for
Sadly, the book could not live up to my high expectations.What did not work for meI was aware that The Proposition dealt with Em’s ticking biological clock.
I love smexy times like every other reader but there was just plenty of bland sex that I was skimming pretty soon because I was bored.
And excessively giggling women don’t do anything for me either.Huge interrogation markHonestly, it’s a mystery to me why Aidan and Em’s story would need a sequel.
4.5 because-I-loved-you-and-you-broke-my freaking-heart-you-bastard STARSWARNING: This review contains pain, swearing, tears and LOTS of GIFs...A woman who needs everything and a man that he thinks that he has nothing to give.
And the man has the "nuts", but the woman has the GUTS!!Emma HarrisonShe can't take any more heartbreak.
Afraid to put her heart in the line she cautiously accepts but she falls...Aidan FitzgeraldWhy are all the good ones so messed up??
HAND, determined to pull away easily, but how the great ones fall and so hard......And the fool, arrogant asshole f***ked it all up!
BASTARD!!!!!!And by people I mean YOU, Aidan Fitzgerald.....
You broke my heart..
Going into this I knew that the heroine was wanting a baby as a single parent.
And although Aidan and Emma knew each other, they had never been out on a date.
Maybe read up on the responsibilities and expectations of being a sperm donor.Connor spills the beans to Aidan about Emma wanting a baby after knowing him all of five minutes!
The beginning scenes between Emma and Aidan could have been fleshed out more, given more details.
And we're also given some much appreciated scenes from Aidan's point-of-view.
I know a lot of romance readers are tiring of cliffhangers and sequels.
If that kind of trope pisses you off, then this book probably isn't for you.The ending of The Proposition is a FUCKING CLIFFHANGER, leaving the reader at the mercy of one or god forbid TWO sequels to get to a Happily Ever After.
I can see a man in his thirties not wanting to settle down and have children because he just isn't into that stuff, but Aidan contradicts that by launching his peen into Emma's baby-crazy vagina and deciding that he wants "more" with her.
I found that the book was nothing different from I’ve read previously…The storyline where manwhore meets good girl, then behaves properly towards the girl because he can’t stand to hurt her feelings...It starts as friendship but both fell in love with the other secretly…Finally one or the other fuck up (normally the guy!!), then the pacifying and winning of heart blah blah…Too much ClichéI honestly think that cliffy was not needed...she could have ended that book in 10 more pages.
Um, WOW!! Aidan is all the things I love. COCKYSEXYSEX-GODHEART OF GOLDI devoured this novel. It was so, so good! It was emotional and steamy. Gah!! Katie weaves erotic magic in this book.This is a must read!!!
When I found out that Katie was going to provide me the ARC of The Proposition I was like......This is the story of Emma & Aidan.
Aidan wants Emma and has since the office Christmas party where she shot him down after she was told he was a "womanizer".
So come November 1st buy this book and start the journey with Emma & Aidan you won't be disappointed I sure the heck wasn't I've read the book twice already since last night :)Thanks for sharing Katie love ya doll!!!
I liked it, I did but....GRRRR....I HATE what Aidan did to Emma in order to push her away. Angry, is what I am. He better redeem himself in the next book of the series.
Emma: I just could not understand her motives....WHY ON EARTH she would want to have a child with a man that would not commit to relationship and is not ready to become a father figure???
Although i condemn what Aidan did, Emma should not be surprise considering his reputation and past.My final thought is that cheating should not be that easy forgiven...although we are humans it is not excuse to just brush it of like it did not happened and I could assume that will happen with the second installment....In my book, how do you respect yourself staying with a man who can't or won't value you?
Ever since her late fiancé died in a car accident four years ago, she's been single and patiently waiting for the right husband/father material to come along but so far, she's had no such luck.
His player-reputation prevented him from ever having a chance at seducing her, but now that he knows she's looking for someone to father her baby and nothing more, he comes up with a proposition: He will father Emma's child, but she must conceive it with him naturally.
He’s been attracted to Emma for a long time and, blinded by his easy charm and desperate to conceive, she agrees.Aidan was a great hero – he’s cocky, charming and more than a little misunderstood but he is commitment-shy and has a bit of a reputation with the ladies.
So often in novels, these aren’t fully developed and feel like cardboard cutouts but that’s quite simply not the case here – they jumped instantly to life off the pages and it all felt very real.But, the course of true love never did run smooth and there are some bumps in the road ahead as Emma finds herself falling for Aidan who is in complete denial of his emotions and scared to death of commitment.It’s a fantastic debut novel but I will warn you all – MAJOR WICKED CLIFFHANGER ALERT!
“Here’s my proposition. I offer to father your child, and you in turn, promise to conceive it with me naturally.”  Just when I thought another romance novel couldn’t possibly surprise me - Ladies and Gentlemen, lo and behold, The Proposition!! A perfect ratio of sweet and romantic, a super-sized amount of scorching hot lovin’ and convincing sexual chemistry, with just a dash of angst, this is the perfect recipe for the type of story that will please anyone looking for a book to curl up with an
But that is not the only reason Aidan offers his ‘stud services’ to Emma - he is no stranger to the kind of comforting feeling that the love of a family can give you so he understands Emma’s need to become a mother.
Unless you’ve ever been ‘an Emma' in your life, it might be difficult to imagine what it is like to face the unwanted prospect of never holding your own baby in your arms.
Her hopeless desire to become a mother took central stage even in her relationship with Aidan, making her willing to suppress her growing feelings for him in order to fulfill her dream of having a baby.
Emma realizes that she may not have the man of her dreams yet; but she could still find love with a child of her own.Loss has plagued her life for the past five years and all Emma wants is to fill the emptiness left behind by the ones she loved.
When plans start to fall through Emma is upset and gets in to an argument with her close friend, Conner.
When Aiden takes an upset Emma out for a drink to help ease her nerves she gives him more than he bargained for...
Clearly thinking with his little head and not the big one; Aiden agrees to be Emma's sperm donor.
By the way, thank you Katie for the ARC!]Holy mother!If you asked me what I thought of The Proposition, that’s what I would say.
And by the way, if you’re a kid, don’t read this.Where shall I begin?Emma Harrison wants a family and she wants it now.
Aidan is a little cocky yes, he’s way too hot for his own good, but you know how men are.
Like…So yes, I think I need to be fair to the people that will read this when it’s released in like three days, so I’ll warn you now, there’s a cliffhanger.
And it's an absolute delight to watch him fall (reluctantly) in love with our Emma.There are so many wonderful, tender moments between these two characters.
Yowza.The secondary characters are very well written as well.
Emma and Aidan's families are both fun and loving and relatable.
They are so well-integrated into the story that they don't feel like secondary characters at all, and that is not an easy thing to accomplish as a writer!I highly recommend this book.
You'll smile, laugh, yell at your ereader (do NOT throw it across the room!) and fall in love with these people.Aidan is SEXY!
This book?
This book was fan-freaking-tastic.I was lucky enough to read an ARC of The Proposition, and WOW-WOW-WEE-WOW!
Katie’s been one of my crit partners for a few years, but DAMN she can write romance.
I fell in love with this book, and I bet you will, too.
There are many steamy sex scenes in The Proposition, but it was also romantic.
Katie, can Aidan be my baby’s daddy?I could go on and on, but if I do, that’ll keep you from reading.
And you need to read this book!
Wonderful book, Katie.
Write on, you talented woman.
Write on.
Another Friends-with-benefits book that I liked, this story is one of those cliché, I've seen movies with the some plot either way I like it because it’s a guilty pleasure chick-lit that can also be a guilty pleasure chick-flick if adapted.Meet Emma who wants to have a child badly but she doesn’t have a man with her to do that anymore when her fiancée died in an accident and since then she’s devastated to start a relationship so she wants to be clinically conceived and wants her gay friend’s seeds that way she won’t risk spawning a serial killer but you see her friend backed out for the reason that his partner was against the idea.Okay I was really cracking up reading this because I have a gay friend that propositioned something like this to another friend of mine so that he could have a child too.
I just wrote a long friggin review for this book and LOST THE FECKIN thing - not writing it again and even if I say so myself it was quite good. SHITE.
He's not a bad guy, and she starts acting like he's doing bad things.To be quite honest, even I fell a little in love with Aiden.
We meet both of their families and begin to learn what makes both Emma and Aiden tick.
After that, I started to notice how a lot of details were left out, things that, to me, could have pulled me into the scene and made it more real.
Lots of dialogue, which I normally love, but I wanted to LOOK at Aiden while he was talking instead of just listening to him.
FREE on Amazon US today (10/29/2014)BLURB:With her thirtieth birthday looming, Emma Harrison finds her biological clock clanging and the elusive knight in shining armor yet to appear. She’s running out of options, especially after her gay best friend backs out from being her sperm donor. Of course, there’s always a sperm bank, but Emma fears a donor mix-up might impregnate her with the spawn of Satan.Resident company womanizer, Aidan Fitzgerald, is used to always getting what he wants, especial
Of course, there’s always a sperm bank, but Emma fears a donor mix-up might impregnate her with the spawn of Satan.Resident company womanizer, Aidan Fitzgerald, is used to always getting what he wants, especially in the bedroom.
When Emma spurns his advances at the company Christmas party, he's determined to have her no matter what it takes.
After Aidan learns of Emma's predicament, he is quick to offer a proposition that will benefit them both.
But can Aidan leave his past behind to become the man Emma needs him to be?
DNF at 20%I've put this book down for the time being. I'm having a very difficult time with Emma's over-the-top need to have a baby. The fact she feels her biological clock is "clanking" not just ticking at such a young age (she's not even 30 yet) is too much for me. For some reason, and I'm not sure why, I'm not emotionally able to move pass her desperate behavior and enjoy the rest of the story.
I wanted a fluffy, funny, easy book, but instead I got a book that get on my nerves in a big way!!!Let’s see…Emma… beautiful, sweet, successful, wounded, insecure (when necessary), fantastic Emma. She’s so strong, she’s suffered so much… Poor Emma! Pssstt.. can you hear my sarcasm here?Since the very beginning, we get what Emma wants, needs…  Being husbandless and childless was all the more painful after her parents’ deaths. After losing her mother two years ago, she had sworn she would replace
Ohhhh, Emma has suffered sooooo much… poor her… I’m crying here!!!So what’s her wonderful, intelligent, clever idea???
Such a mature and intelligent thing!!!I can understand Aidan, he’s a man-whore and he’ll get a lot of sex.
I mean, we can’t have anything happening to that fabulous ass of yours now can we?”“That mouth of yours is trouble,”--------------------------------“I can’t believe Mr. Aidan Fitzgerald—Sex God Extraordinaire—is doubting his bedroom abilities.”At her taunting, Aidan’s expressed flipped over from anxious to smoldering in barely a second.“There goes that mouth of yours again,”--------------------------------“Of course, Iwasn’t an All State Swim Champion, so what do I know?”Aidan shook his head as he threw off the quilt.
What?! Whaaaaat?! You have got to be kidding me?! Ok, once again, my lack of research before diving, blind, into a book, gets the better of me. I did not know there was a second book and that this did not end in a HEA. And now I have to wait until March! MARCH!!! To find out what happens. Gah, torture!However, that aside, I loved The Proposition. It was original, emotional, sweet, steamy, well paced, witty, fantastically written... just brilliant! "Is this one of those contracts like in that kin
"Is this one of those contracts like in that kinky book where we outline what we're willing to do or not do during sex?
Aidan Fitzgerald I hate you!
(And love you a little bit)!
The dialogue in this book is just great and had the butterflies in my stomach performing somersaults!
Katie Ashley can write the shit out of a sex scene and there are some seriously steamy parts to this book.
I love how the relationship between Emma and Aidan develops.
The book isn't particularly short but I felt like it flew by, the story really drew me in.Absolutely can't wait for The Proposal.
Before you read this I want to say sorry in advance for the rant below.
If I had to use one word that would describe this book then it would have to be predictable or unrealistic.
I feel bad saying that because I know how hard it is to write, but honestly this book got on my nerves.
And to top it all off I have to read a squeal just because there is one and I will want it to be better than this one even though I know it won't be.
Anyhow, let's talk about this book of yours I just finished....Holy hell I feel like my heart aches and my gut is just now settling down.
The story starts out a little choppy but progressivley gets smoother as it continues.
However, I think the author captured her feelings perfectly.
I personaly have experienced the gut wrenching jealousy(no matter how guilty or wrong I felt about those feelings) towards friends that were pregnant before I had my son.
And is 27, a little younger than Emma).
Again, I think the author captured her feelings perfectly, IMO.
He's got the hots for Emma, but after hearing of his reputation she turns him down at the company Christmas party.
He gives Emma a proposition that he thinks would work out perfectly for the both of them.
When he starts to develop feelings for Emma I think it really freaks him out.
He doesn't know what to do and I really believe he doesn't want to hurt Emma or break her heart.Emma and Aidan were great together!
Both Emma and Aidan were great mc's.
Aidan wasn't perfect, but I loved him anyway!
There wasn't much about it I didn't love!!!
"Is this one of those contracts like in that kinky book where we outline what we're willing to do or not do during sex?
Actually, Aiden, despite his reputation, understood how inexperienced Emma was and goes out of his way to make her time with him extra special.
But Emma doesn't know how to separate sex from love, even when she expects it going in, and especially with Aiden being so swoonalicious.
And now we have to wait for Book two, The Proposal, until January!!!!
I loved Aiden and his family, I loved Emma and especially her best friend Casey.
