https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1801761.The_House_Above_the_Trees
The story is beautiful and magical and I have loved it since I was little.
Hepatica, a young lonely girl, sees a Wind Creature one day and follows him into the forest.
From there, she meets Tree Mother who allows Hepatica to stay in the forest and meet the many people who live there.
When Tree Mother leaves the forest in Hepatica's care, she must be brave and step into Tree Mother's place and protect the people from the Beautiful Wicked Witch.
"Now we must jump," Tree Mother said."Right off the tree?" cried Hepatica."Yes, right off into the moonlight.
A children's fantasy fairy story about a human girl who crosses into the forest and is pure of heart and mind enough to see the forest creatures and help the Tree Mother. Hepatica lets the forest speak through her and in doing so makes choices that help her on her path. A wonderful story. I enjoyed it very much.
Simply magical! First published in 1921 this beautifully written fairy-tale type story is perfect for girls ages 7-10. The main character, a human Hepatica (named after a tiny woodland wildflower), escapes to the forest where she lives with Tree Mother, forest children, and wind creatures. It has a whimsical feel and talks a lot about nature. I think both my girls will really enjoy this when I give it to them for book day. It is hard to find though. I found my copy at Chinaberry.com
From the language and the imagery of the the forest people, I at first assumed this book to be of German origin.
The mythology certainly seemed to be related to Mother Earth and Her Children: A Quilted Fairy Tale.
Other portions of the imagery seemed more reminiscent of Charles DeLint.
Much of the book felt like a vaguely opium-induced day-dream.
I should not have been surprised or as annoyed to have the whol experience written off as a moment of passing time, since this story is not that far from the old tales of faerie meetings and abductions.
Read this book with my daughter when she was seven, and found myself completely enamored, immediately. There is a quiet, joyful, awe-inspiring spirituality about the magical forest in which Hepatica (the girl heroine) finds herself, as well as about the spirits of nature (Tree Mother, Cloud, the Wind Creature, and the Tree Girl) that become her playmates and temporary family. Within the forest, Hepatica finds her heart comforted, her sense of adventure kindled, and her confidence in herself nurtured. An absolutely beautiful story.
Fairy story set in the woods. I love the setting in the woods as being a friendly good place to be, unlike woods in many children's books where the woods are evil, bad places. Wait. Maybe that's why parents aren't letting their children go out on their own any more. We loved reading this together, daughter and I.
Really more like a 3.75... this was my "rebound" book after finishing The Darkest Minds. Very sweet and satisfying. Loved the writing style.
Have such fond memories of my mom reading this to me when I was in fifth grade as I was going to bed! Magical read with such soothing storytelling. It felt like a fairy tale! (May have read this in 2012 but I don't remember so I'm just placing the book here)
I just love this magnificent fairy tale. Quin and I read it together several times and totally enjoyed it!Now with her so far away in London, I picked it up again and was comforted by the story and the memories it envokes!
I have been reading this with my daughter and find it absolutely delightful. What a wonderful story and the writing it so enjoyable. Hepatica has become a favorite character of mine and such a sweet example of a heroine for my daughter.
3.5-- it was lovely, I was just expecting something with a bit more depth (like, say, a George MacDonald fairytale)
I love this book.
magical, beautifully written book in which a poor orphan girl learns to master her feelings, let go and 'let the forest think through her'. Elijah and I have read it twice in a row.
Both my daughters really liked it, but maybe more the 7 year old.
A sweet, old fashioned fantasy. We liked it, but expected to LOVE it. It had really been hyped to us. I'm glad we read it, but was a little surprised by it...expected something more I guess.
Another beautiful story from Eliot.
That cover is sooo beautiful! I want to frame it!
This has to be one of my favorite books.
Beautiful and enchanting, my children adored this book!
