https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278039.The_Mike_Hammer_Collection
If you want to experience one of the great masters of the hard boiled detective novel, a writer who defined the genre and raised it to a fine art then I whole-heartedly and without reservation encourage you to move on to Dashiell Hammett or Raymond Chandler.
What's more likely to offend are scenes many would consider racist, sexist, or homophobic today, though by comparison to other writers of his era Spilane was actually not so bad on those points.
All the snide remarks and bad reviews that Mickey Spillane received during his sixty-year career couldn’t mask the passion that comes blasting through in his prose.
The dark streets and back alleys spring to life on the page, as Mike Hammer slinks through them like a feral cat on the trail of his prey.
The reader will feel Hammer’s hot desires as he strokes the naked skin of a beautiful woman.
When he takes a wrong turn and is severely beaten by a few tough guys, the reader will feel the blows.This was pretty strong stuff in 1950, when readers of “mystery novels” were being spoon-fed Miss Marple.For my full review, check my website: http://mikedennisnoir.com/review-my-g...
This is a collection of Mickey Spillane's first three Mike Hammer novels (I, The Jury, My Gun Is Quick and Vengeance Is Mine) and the action, sex and violence is overwhelming. These novels are pulp classics, replete with tough criminals, tough broads and tough Mike Hammer. Spillane wrote the best New York noir, ever. The abundance of beautiful, willing women makes one feel sorry for Hammer's loyal, torch-carrying secretary, Velda. Spillane's books sometimes seem a bit cartoonish, though, and that is not surprising as he spent some time as a comic book writer.
Min dest bi xwandina wan kir, li destpêkê ji ber ko çi kitêbên dî nebûn ko min xwandiban, lê paşî ji ber wê ko êdî min ji romanên wî hez dikir.Nizanim ka evro jî dikarim dema xwe ji bo xwanidina wan terxan bikim an ne, lê di wê demê da min ji wan hez kir û wan jî dîsa ez li kitêban vegerrandim.English:Mickey Spillance is a great novelist, but my story of reading his books is interesting.
Then all of a sudden, I got a dozen of Mickey Spillance books and I started reading them.
I, the Jury: Mike Hammer doesn't have many friends but when the one friend who literally gave his right arm to save Mike's life from a Japanese bayonet during WWII is murdered.
Hammer sets out to find the truth and ends up embroiled in a double murder case involving girls and the oldest profession.Vengeance is Mine: a rehashing of I the Jury with a twist at the end nobody sees coming.
An old Army buddy of Mike Hammer's comes to New York to buy merchandise for his store in Ohio and ends up dead.
Ahhh, the entertaining genius of crap. Our protagonist is so offensively unlikable he's lovable, because you sense the guy writing him that way does it for the fun hyperbole of it. He's a drunk and a homophobe, dumber than a box of rocks at times, and loves to hate/hit big, beautiful women. Like statues, they are. Big, BEAUTIFUL statues!Pure pleasure reading. I especially enjoy the time Mike spends in diners and women's apartments eating bacon and eggs, sandwiches, etc. Good eats, lots of drinking, and a preoccupation with love and marriage. It's sappy!
As I mentioned in another review,I thing Mickey Spillane is by far the best writer in the his particular genre. His books deal with the seedy side of life in post WW2 New York, his protagonist Mike Hammer is brutal by nature and caustic in his language. He disdains Police procedures an d prefers his form of justice, which usually means a bullet between the eyes. He would be the most Politically incorrect person you could meet, I find his rogue behaviour a large part of his popularity.
Mickey Spillane is the artless Dashell Hammett. And it's hard for me to believe that his work goes out of print time-to-time. Is he essential? No. Is he entertaining? Yes. And therefore there lies the charm of his work. It's detective noir writing without the poetry. For those who want to cut the chase short.Also his titles are great. Worth the price alone.
A lot of fun. Dated, but that adds to the charm. High body counts. Hammer is the Conan of the gumshoe set.
I love how Spillane's action scenes speed up because his prose gains a staccato frenzy.
There is so much I can learn from Spillane's mastery of craft.
Servile women, Hammer casting more seed than a farmer's collective, the sappy love scenes… I just didn't enjoy reading about a philandering goon who demanded monogamy from each one of his dames.
Never mind the fact that with each love scene I felt like my iPad should be wrapped in a brown paper bag.
Yeah, I've read worse, but it just wasn't my scene.
Fantastic action sequences, though.
Spillane was ground breaking.
You know when people make fun of hard-boiled detective novels? Well they’re making fun of Mickey Spillane. Violent, brutal and two-dimensional, these aren’t something I would recommend. The only reason they could possibly rate more than one star is that they are good examples of compelling wordsmithing. It’s not what I would call writing, but it does keep you on the edge of your seat. You're better off sticking to Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler.
Not my cup of tea. The similarities between the three novels in the collection show a lack of originality. I think Spillane read some Chandler short stories and thought he could do the same thing. Well . . . he couldn't and didn't. I read all three novels to give Spillane a fair chance but was left empty and not wanting more. Jim Thompson beats the pants off Spillane. It's just one man's opinion but then I think Fitzgerald's books sucked. If you want to read a good crime novel, read Red Harvest.
Not my cup of tea. The similarities between the three novels in the collection show a lack of originality. I think Spillane read some Chandler short stories and thought he could do the same thing. Well . . . he couldn't and didn't. I read all three novels to give Spillane a fair chance but was left empty and not wanting more. Jim Thompson beats the pants off Spillane. It's just one man's opinion but then I think Fitzgerald's books sucked. If you want to read a good crime novel, read Red Harvest.
Rednecks have their 3 B's: beer, bikes and barbeque. Mike Hammer has his 3 B's: booze, broads and brawls. It's messy, but he does bring the bad guys to justice, usually with him as the judge, jury and executioner.The first two novels are shallow and plot-driven; the third is a more reflective and cerebral, bringing the whole series to 3 stars. You might want to read the last one first; if you like it, then tackle the first two, if only to see Spillane's evolution as a writer.
Third time around and just as good as the first timeThis is at least the third time I've read these books and I enjoyed them just as much even though I already knew Spillane's trademark shock endings. I don't know what it is about them ...his style is awkward, the situations unlikely at best. But Mickey Spillane has more pure narrative force than a hundred stylists. His books are impossible to put down.
Read the last story first, it's more reflective and less plot-heavy than the comic-bookish first two.Rednecks have their 3 B's: beer, bikes and barbecue. Mike Hammer has his 3 B's: booze, broads and brawls. It may be messy, but it gets results: not only are the bad guys caught, but often executed, by Hammer's own hand.
Well, Mike Hammer is certainly a force of nature.
It contains the solution -- such as it is -- to the murder mystery the story revolves around and describes the fate of a key character.)"I, The Jury," the 1947 Mickey Spillane novel that introduced tough and violent private eye Mike Hammer, is arguably Spillane's most cinematic book.It begins with a graphic description of the death of his one-armed wartime buddy, Jack Williams, that lets the reader relive the dead man's last minutes on earth; it ends with a terse exchange between the private eye and William's murderer that has to be the most memorable dialog Spillane wrote in any of the 13 Mike Hammer novels he turned out as a solo author:Manning (dying): How c-could you?Hammer (deadpan): It was easy.In between, the book is loaded with action.
I couldn't find the other two novels separately, so I had to go with this collection.2) My Gun is Quick - Mike Hammer shares coffee with a redheaded prostitute with a pretty ring on her finger in a greasy spoon dive one night.
Worse, when the DA takes away his PI license and his gun can Mike get the answers to what happened that night and avoid being the next victim?
You can bet that Mike Hammer will pull back, twice as hard - especially when his lovely secretary Velda ends up on the line!
After reading the first novel contained in this omnibus volume (I, the Jury) and about half of the second one (My Gun is Quick), I'm setting this collection of Mickey Spillane's first three Mike Hammer mysteries aside.
As with Ross McDonald, I simply find the stories too violent and too dated in their attitudes to be entertaining.
I'm less offended by this in the Hammer stories than I was with the one Ross McDonald I read.
These stories, after all, were written in 1949 & 1950; the McDonald dated from the 70s, by which point, one would hope, he would know better.
Mickey Spillane epitomized the early 50's, with its Cold War, Us vs Them mentality, which also extended to big city crime.
And no one did it better than Mickey Spillane's Mike Hammer, the tough as nails private eye who came out of WWII with no skills but straight shooting, hand to hand combat and a talent for deduction.
These three are from the early adventures, and set the tone of all the rest, which I have also read.
Ian Fleming he is not, but fun to read in his own right.
I had previously read Volume 3 of the Mike Hammer Collection so I went back and looked to see how I rated it.
I can't believe I gave it 4 stars because I had a really hard time with Volume 1 of the series.
Maybe Mike got more likable, but I really couldn't stand him in these three stories.
It seems that beautiful women just seem to fall completely in love with him after being with him for 5 minutes -- a little hard to believe.
And his poor long suffering secretary (also beautiful) is also in love with him.
I read Mickey Spillane in junior high and revisited these three books a couple of months ago.
Like most things first experienced when young, they were both fun to revisit but failed to match the memories.
I was a little taken aback to learn that the “bad guy” in all three novels was similar, so all three books had somewhat similar - and frankly, a little annoying - resolutions.
I was also surprised to learn that Mike Hammer was quite tolerant of gays and that a scene in all three books was the same gay bar that for reasons never explained, Hammer liked to frequent.
This book contains the first three novels with the character Mike Hammer.
These books are so enjoyable.
Within pages the reader is transported back to a simpler time.
The author does a wonderful job of painting a picture and as the reader I had no trouble imagining the simpler time era.
These books are a murder mystery and by the end of each book you cannot wait to find out the conclusion.
The third book "Vengeance Is Mine" is one of the best murder mysteries I have read.
I believe these books can be enjoyed by anyone and stand up to the test of time.
When I was twelve, I discovered my my father's Mickey Spillane paperbacks, but would not let me read them.
Now I know why.
They're not for children.After all these years, I finally read one.
Plus: Visceral, brutal, terse.
No wasted verbiage.
Hammer is tough, knows what he wants and gets it.
The action sequences are well-written.Minus: It's a fantasy.
Mike Hammer is a thug, and his answer to most problems invloves fists.
Every woman is gorgeous, and throws herself at him.
He sees all eventualities, except for the plot twist, but does so just before the end.I give this 4 stars.
You won't find any great meaning or theme or even character development in Mickey Spillane; he just isn't that kind of a writer. This isn't literature by any stretch of the imagination. What it is is down-and-dirty, gritty, bare-knuckled, brutal, sexy, no-holds barred entertainment. I came to Mike Hammer because I felt obligated to read it but I thought I wouldn't like it. Imagine my surprise when I did.
It's got it all - violence, nudity, sex - no graphic detail as pornography was illegal in the '40s and '50s, but Mr. Spillane did leave pretty obvious clues - a flawed but fundamentally decent hero (ubermensch even), obvious lowlives and wolves in sheep's clothing and twisted endings you may or may not see coming but either way, forget "50 Shades of Poo" and read these instead.
Contents: I, the jury; My gun is quick; Vengeance is mineToo much like self-parody to be good. Has its moments, but too much posturing. Mickey Spillane, and by extension his detective Mike Hammer, are tough-guy wannabes.The progression from Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler is not only generational, but devolutionary.
As a paradigm for the genre, this makes so much sense. Mike Hammer is clearly the foundation fro so many good cop/bad cops who came after. For the time period I suspect it was super edgy as well. But in the current day it was hard to read and take too seriously. It felt a bit hokey. I am not sure whether this deserves praise for pioneering or the shrug I feel like giving it.
Final novel in the collection is "Vengeance Is Mine!" Spillane's voice is really developed in this one, although I wasn't as enamored with the plot, which seemed unnecessarily complicated. 4/5Overall, I really enjoyed this collection and am looking forward to getting into the subsequent collections as well.
Spillane doesn't reveal the final plot twist in "Vengeance Is Mine" until the last word of the book. Respect! The man is a master prose stylist of the hard-boiled variety. His stories and characters are vivid and raw, like a nightmare that Chandler or Hammett might have had.
