https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34267285-the-trespasser
Tana French is just fantastic.You know, I actually have very little author loyalty.
For me, I don't have to wonder whether this one will be good, or that one will be good, because the author just is that good.I loved this book.
You may notice that this review is lacking in quotes, but that was another thing I picked up on while reading this: French's fantastic scenes and little pieces of dialogue are all about the context.
However, French introduces each narrator in the previous book.
these two are perfect working partners - they get each other and they click in that perfect complementary sherlock-and-watson way, playing to each others' strengths and attuned to each others' body language and thought processes despite seeming, on the surface, to be complete opposites: moran is easygoing and affable and gets along with everyone, while conway… well, she's been having a rough time ever since she transferred from missing persons to the murder squad.
So pleased with my reread of this one! I definitely appreciated it more the second time around, and it satiated my police procedural need for the moment. I'm left wondering if she'll come back to the series; based on the ending of this one it could go either way, but I'm unsure who the focus would be on moving forward... All in all, another fab read from Tana French!
The only way to survive this will be to get the case solved and find out why the brass is so keen on pinning the murder on Rory, but with Rory falling right into their hands, and the powers that be riding their tale and playing psychological games, it will take all the interrogating skills Conway has in her whole body to uncover the truth.
After reading a Tana French novel I always feel like I’ve ingested a highly addictive drug because I immediately begin to feel withdrawal symptoms.
It wrung me out like a three-day fight, playing me like an old lover, an old enemy, hinting in exactly the right ways, saying the right words, pausing at the best movement, to achieve their ends.
I knew there was no way on earth I'd be able to sleep with rage like that simmering below the the surface.Does evoking strong emotion make it a good book?The second evening I read, I had more time, a little less anxiety; I knew I'd be finishing far before bed.
Me.French perfects the Irish dialect, her prose is smart and witty.
Tana French does that.
Antoinette Conway and Steve Moran.
Yet funny as hell.
They play tricks on her and have since day one.
And he doesn’t let Conway get away with anything.
Here, Conway and Moran, with the help of Senior Detective Breslin, investigate the death of Aislinn Murray, which they initially thought was a domestic disturbance gone wrong.
While I previously would have stated that my two favorite Tana French books were “In the Woods” and “The Secret Place,” this surpasses them by MILES.
Back to the Dublin murder squad and a second showing of Detective Antoinette Conway.
Her partner, seems for most of the book to be a milquetoast, happy to support and follow.
Things look one way and then another.
This is an combination of a character driven novel and a police procedural.
Not easy to do, may account for the length of the book, but French does these type of things very well.
Need to go back and read the one I miss but as always look forward to French's next.ARC from publisher.
When a pretty young woman winds up murdered, detectives Conway and Moran catch the case.
Conway, the odd (wo)man out on the Dublin Murder Squad, trusts no one and suspects everyone.
Her relationship with Stephen Moran, her partner, Detective Breslin, the senior D shadowing them, and her absent father drive the tale.Tana French's writing is as rich as every but flows really well.
Everyone was in shit up to his or her neck and I thought the whole squad might go up in flames.The ending was the dog's breakfast I knew it would be, just like most Tana French books.
In Tana French's very first book, "In The Woods", one of my favorite characters was named Rob Ryan.
In her next book, "The Likeness", Cassie Maddox becomes the narrator-( it took me several pages to get use to a female narrator after Tana was so good at writing from a male's voice).
I had to forgive Cassie Maddox though for picking Sam O'N'eill over Rob Ryan....and #3 Antoinette Conway, from "The Secret Place", and now the narrator of this recent book, "The Trespasser".
If Moran and Conway are not careful - the daytime, more experienced detectives in there murder squad, will take over their case.
I liked this book somewhat despite the usual hard-boiled approach to writing that French takes.
This book is like the window pane to a chic shop.
An ultra-cleaned pane where you can see through very well, but you're aware of the glass all the time.I guess the author's take on death is what drove me to read this book quickly.
I loved the ability of the book to be readable despite the fact that I didn't read any of the prequels.There are multiple investigations by different people.
I really must read as many units of the series as I can.
Turning up the pressure, in hopes of having Fallon spill, Conway gets nowhere and his forced to keep her options open.New avenues turn up potential leads, including that Aislinn apparently become fixated on her father, who disappeared from his family twenty years before.
One could easily see that the murderer proved to be the most apparent trespasser that invaded Aislinn Murray's home, entering and leaving her body strewn on the floor after a struggle.
Fathers to both Aislinn and Antoinette could also be seen as trespassers, having left their homes but invaded these women's minds at various points in the story's development.
She has become quite paranoid lately in the department as other squad members pull mean pranks and are leaking sensitive case details she has been working on to the local paper.
Detective Conway is a complex character with a lofty chip on her shoulder, a right mouthy gob that gets her in additional hot water, and is extremely reluctant to take any direction or suggestions from senior members.
With the lengthy, thorough and detailed interviews with a suspect and witnesses throughout the book, it demonstrates how painfully slow it can be for detectives to take a small step in the right direction to solve a case.
The two detectives bring in Aislinn's new boyfriend, Rory Fallon, and question him under the watchful eye of a senior detective who's inserted himself into the case.
To the senior detective, the case seems a slam dunk and he presses Conway and Moran to charge Fallon and move on to new business.Conway, who is the lead detective on the case, balks and insists on clearing up loose ends.
But she and Moran persist and gradually become convinced that maybe this case isn't as simple and straightforward as it appears on the surface.Like all of French's characters, Antoinette Conway is a complex bundle of ambition, hopes, fears, dreams and doubts.
It was like sitting in front of my TV, seeing everything that was going on, but also, being privy to every thought and feeling that Detective Antoinette Conway was having.
(What a guy.) I don't need to like the characters in a book to enjoy it, and in this case, Detective Conway's attitude was pertinent to the storyline.
I enjoyed this author's writing style enough to read another book by her.
Perhaps I'll read the first book and decide which I like best.I must thank one of my dearest friends, Kris, for "persuading" me to read this enjoyable book.
Tana French is so much at the top of her game I could rate this book six or seven stars.
The Trespasser is her best yet, in a career of superb books.Her ear for dialogue is pitch-perfect.
Her protagonist is a tough, unapologetic detective to whom we could listen forever.The case illustrates loyalty, joy in job (way too rare in books), suspense, the need for and danger of living inside one's head, and character trajectory scenes that sparkle in unexpected ways.The Trespasser will make readers hope to be stuck in lines or at doctors' offices or at airports--any place that allows an excuse to dive back into the book.
I've enjoyed all of Tana French's previous books, and I enjoyed this one, too!
This book stars Antoinette Conway and her partner Steve Moran, who were previously featured in The Secret Place.
Steve is super with coming up with ideas and theories, and this drives Conway crazy sometimes, but she listens to him.
That lifted this book to 5 stars for me.I think fans of Tana French will really enjoy this book.
The reading order doesn't matter because the lead detective is different in each book.
Finally! Hearing so much greatness about this author, and from what I've read so far it's easy to see why!*fingers X'd*
Her mother never told her the truth, and Antoinette grew up and stopped believing in stories.
As Conway and Moran, start to digging into Aislinn’s life, they begin to create stories about whom she was and the intrigue that she got wrapped up in.
Conway needs to work through all of these stories in order to not only bring Aislinn’s case to justice, but also to come to terms with her own reality.Everyone seems to have their favorite Tana French book; some of French’s books have resonated with me more than others.
It's probably not ideal to read them out of order and I know that detectives Conway and Moran also appear in The Secret Place.
Conway's partner Stephen Moran is a likable people-pleaser who is still able to dream big.
Unsurprisingly, his interrogation technique is "Nice Boy Next Door." While Conway is resigned to the Aislinn Murray case being like one of their usual domestic cases, Moran convinces her that there may be more to the case.
The partnership between Conway and Moran works because they have completely opposite personalities and they balance each other out so well.
No living author has a hold on me like French and her new novel--psychologically rich, sociopolitically charged and structurally brilliant--proves why.The story is told by Antoinette Conway, a thirty-two year old rising star promoted from Missing Persons into the elite Murder Squad operating out of Dublin Castle.
If you want to kill someone, have enough respect for my time to make it someone, anyone, other than the most gobsmackingly obvious person in the world.Conway & Moran keep Breslin in the dark long enough to have a crack at their first witness, Aislinn's best friend Lucy Riordian.
Other women detectives Antoinette had known didn’t want to fight the scum-stain perps outside and their own colleagues inside.
The older male detectives in this novel reveal that they couldn't care less why a suspect might commit a crime, and are just happy to put someone down for the crime if it increases their solve-rate, whether or not it makes perfect sense.Antoinette pursues the psychological in all her interviews.
Or is the trespasser one on the squad?I listened to the Penguin Audio production of this book, read by Hilda Fay. The Irish accents are the beauty of the listening experience, and I wouldn't have wanted to miss them.
I knew very early on that I was going to like this book, the characters are exceptionally developed and the plot expertly paced, feeding you glimpses of the truth and more than a few red herrings.This novel features Antoinette Conway, the tough, abrasive detective from the previous novel 'The Secret Place' but it doesn't matter if you haven't read it.
They have to work out whether this is just an escalation in the drive to get rid of her - or whether there's something deeper and darker going on.I found this novel to be quite a long read which I enjoyed because I didn't feel there was any rush to get to the end and instead every relationship was explained so well by the end I felt I knew the character inside out.
Grand.Readers of mysteries and observers of crimes and interviews have witnessed some brilliant interviews between a detective / prosecutor / cross examiner and a suspect over the course of time.
There was some early lag in this novel that was not present in her other books, but French did this to set up her extraordinary finish and it was well worth the wait.This novel also features one of French’s most enigmatic and powerful characters: Antoinette Conway.
Since French’s second novel (2008's The Likeness) her central protagonist and narrator have been introduced in the previous novel.
All of these characters are well thought out in this intricately plotted police procedural.I will not go through the plot of this novel, there are other reviews if you are interested in that, you can also read the blurb about the book.What I liked best about this novel was it’s main character Antoinette Conway.
She is extremely good at her job.I will look forward to the next installment of the Dublin Murder Squad and I hope that you will pick up this great mystery/police procedural, I don’t think you’ll be disappointed.
While i've enjoyed a few of Tana French's books before, I hadn't been blown away till I read this one.
French gets her character exactly right here, there's not a thought or action that jarred with who I pictured Conway to be, not a moment when I wasn't totally engrossed in the story she was telling me.
Not until right at the end.
It's a tense read, that's for sure.If you've never read Tana French before, you could certainly start here without any difficulty, or you could save the best for last.
(view spoiler)[Your absent father can really mess you up, ladies. (hide spoiler)]Another winner from Tana French.
It’s almost ridiculous how easy she makes it look, writing a book this good.
I love them for the characters, and the way French writes her way into their heads.
Conway is a hard lady to get to know, and she doesn’t make it easy for you to be in her head.
It’s a theme that works ridiculously well in the context of a murder.
All that remains now is that I loved it, and I’ll be reading it again, and I can’t wait for the next book to be released in (hopefully, if she holds to pattern) 2018.Initial pre-review January 2016: Hi. Hiiiiiiiiiii.
Hello, my lovely.
Tana French has been my go-to author when I was stuck in a reading rut, and now that I've finished the latest novel in her Dublin Murder Squad series, I'm feeling a bit adrift.
Besides the actual murder case the pair are trying to solve — which had so many good twists and turns that I stayed up late to finish this book and find out what happened — I loved the relationship dynamics between the detectives, and watching how Antoinette dealt with the sexist jerks on the police squad who gave her a hard time.
Who’s really against her and is the story that she’s created in her mind all facts?The domestic murder that Detectives Conway and Moran get sent to ends up being more then what they bargained for.
Is Aislinn really a beautiful, passive doll that she appears to be?I enjoyed the setting of Dublin like always and the police procedure in this book is well done.
I really hope she keeps writing books for this series or does something new in the future.I’ve missed reading her books in the last few years!If you want a complex and intense new detective series, look no further than the Dublin Murder Squad.
She is a great detective and I love her attitude.
In today’s world, it's easy to think women are accepted in any job they want.
But as Antoinette has found out, there's a difference between being able to get a job and being accepted.
Other than her partner, none of the other homicide detectives want her there.
The description of the victim was great “she looks like Dead Barbie”.
It's always interesting to watch detectives put together possible scenarios, to see how their minds work.
Also in letting us see the interaction when different detectives have different ideas.
The book finishes with a great ending.
