https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/236970.A_Way_of_Life
There are some bits of advice and wording that are antiquated, such as references to a mystic East and an exclusive concentration on men's roles in academia and the larger world, but all in all, this speech contains very sound advice.
My favorite section addressed the college student's need for constant hurry, something which only breeds anxiety.
Now we see this as almost asinine: our world requires the ability to provide instant satisfaction and to hurry.
But, especially in these modern times, Osler's call for moderation and thoroughness ring true.
I picked this up at a book sale, all faded and scuffed.
I got this little book off my mom's bookcase a long time ago. Full of lots of advice on how to live one day at a time, and to mind your health. Relax and chill. Be good. That sort of stuff. It was an uplifting read which I will probably give to my eldest so she can guiltily keep it on her shelf for years and eventually read.
My father received this book as he was going into his second year of medical school. It's a short book, a talk to students at Yale given by Sir William Osler the distinguished Canadian physician. Reading it, I can see how some of the thoughts in the address permeated my father's life.
Life shall be lived every moment, every hour of the day.3-4 hours of devoted focus will make students thrive.
chemical links,,an all of emotions ,,biorythmic curves,,biological time,,deep souls,,one in all and all in one ,,ill without desease,, medicines without diagnosis,,that` s me that`s what medical research is still look to solve it...
chemical links,,an all of emotions ,,biorythmic curves,,biological time,,deep souls,,one in all and all in one ,,ill without desease,, medicines without diagnosis,,that` s me that`s what medical research is still look to solve it...
A bit dated in parts, but contains some solid advice. Particularly like Oslers thoughts on habit and learning.
Live life on a day-to-day basis. Osler uses the Christian principle of living in the now, and not in the past or the future. Concentrate for today.
3 point something. Day tight compartments, sir yes sir.
A straight forward address that transcends medicine.
A good brief reminder on the steps to excellence.
The best commencement speech, and one to which I actually paid attention!
