https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27220736-shoe-dog
I did not know a book about what I had previously viewed as the definition of a big corporation could have that sort of power.
I didn't know he had met his wife while teaching at Portland State (after leaving PWC to buy himself more time to work on building his entrepreneurial endeavor).
Perhaps his 6 mile jogs helped him remain on-track while building what is now an empire & retaining at least somewhat of a soul.
And, more importantly, I simply can't get him or what he had meant to this country, to the world of running at-large & to Phil Knight both personally & professionally, out of my mind.
It’s about the origin story of Nike, which started out as Blue Ribbon Sports.Unlike so many memoirs, it’s not an equally balanced arc through Knight’s life.
Instead, it’s a deep focus on the beginning years of Nike especially around the first decade.
Year two revenue – with one full time employee (not Knight) was $20,000.
He made it work and how he did it was awesome.It’s incredible to get inside of a man now worth over $25 billion and the founder of one of the most iconic brands on the planet at the very beginning of his story.
Yet, Knight and his team, which later included track star Steve Prefontaine and early endorsements from athletes like Ilia Nastase, trekked on, perfected their ideas, and eventually became the corporation that they are today.
The swoosh symbol was everywhere, the company had exposure to rival Adidas, and, after going public at the end of 1977, Nike was on its way up in the world.Because I am not savvy in navigating the business world, I found the sections about Blue Ribbon's fight with Onitsuka shoes to distribute running shoes and later their entanglement with U.S. Customs Service to be fascinating.
Shoe Dog could have been titled, "Buck Naked", because of the way Phil "Buck" Knight bares his soul in this fine memoir.
My 12 years with Nike started toward the end of the timeframe of this memoir, and so a lot of what Knight chronicles in Shoe Dog was the core of the Nike creation myth, revealed piecemeal to most of us in the late 70's and early 80's...
It's just wonderful to read this very personal account and especially to have so many unexpected revelations about Knight's state of mind during those seminal moments in Nike's early history.
قام شريك فلِ نايت (المتحمّس) بتحويل متاجرهم إلى أماكن تجمّع لمحبّي الركض مما رفع مصداقيّته أيضًا.بعد سنوات انقطعت العلاقة مع شركة (Tiger) واضطر أن يصنع أحذية من نفسه وأسماها نايك.
وهذا بالنّسبة لي درس مهم: المصداقية قد تأخذ وقت للبناء وقد يكون طريقها طويل، لكنّها أهم عامل للنجاح.الدرس الثانيلم يتردد فِل في إضافة أعضاء لفريق عمله إن كانت لهم 3 صفات (متحمّس للمجال + متعدّد المهارات + يتقبّل إنّه يضحك على أخطاءه).
والضحك هنا المقصود فيه إنّه ما ينهار من الخطأ ويتعلّم منه (مو إنّه غير مبالي).الدرس الثالثتوفّى ابن فِل نايت وهو في شبابه، كما توفّى العديد من شركائه.
يختم فِل نايت الكتاب بذكّر أهمّية وجود غاية تعمل نحوها.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب، خاطراتِ <فیل نایت> مالکِ شرکت بزرگِ "نایکی" میباشد و به بهترین شکلِ ممکن نشان داده است که چگونه از کجا به کجا رسیده است و همچون دونده ای تیزپا از منطقهٔ پورتلند، این مسیرِ پیشرفت را طی کرده است... نمیتوان کتاب را چکیده کرد، امّا به انتخاب بخشی از نوشته هایِ کتاب را در زیر برایتان مینویسم که مربوط میشود به دورانی که او در دانشگاه درس میخوانده است و خاطراتش از شخصی به نامِ <بیل بُوِرمن> که تأثیر بسیار زیادی در پیشرفتِ او داشته است و از مربی تبدیل به شریکِ کار
نمیتوان کتاب را چکیده کرد، امّا به انتخاب بخشی از نوشته هایِ کتاب را در زیر برایتان مینویسم که مربوط میشود به دورانی که او در دانشگاه درس میخوانده است و خاطراتش از شخصی به نامِ <بیل بُوِرمن> که تأثیر بسیار زیادی در پیشرفتِ او داشته است و از مربی تبدیل به شریکِ کاری برایِ او میشود و شرکتِ "روبانِ آبی" را تأسیس میکنند و نزدیک به هفت سال بعد تبدیل به شرکتِ "نایکی" میشود-----------------------------------------‎سالِ دومِ دانشگاه بودم و برنامه هایم کاملاً مرا از پا انداخته بود.
چطوره من هم وارد اون معامله بشم؟‎نگاهی بهش کردم و گفتم: معامله؟؟ مدتی زمان برد تا آنچه بُورمن گفته بود را هضم کنم و بفهمم..
“Let everyone else call your idea crazy.. just keep going. Don’t stop. Don’t even think about stopping until you get there, and don’t give much thought to where “there” is. Whatever comes, just don’t stop.” In other words, Just Do It!Nike is the ultimate American dream. And it all started when a twenty-four year old Oregonian suddenly had this Crazy Idea of bringing Japanese running shoes, specifically the Onitsuka Tigers, into the country way back in 1962, just less than two decades after the
And it all started when a twenty-four year old Oregonian suddenly had this Crazy Idea of bringing Japanese running shoes, specifically the Onitsuka Tigers, into the country way back in 1962, just less than two decades after the United States of America bombed Nagasaki and Hiroshima.
The story of Nike has strong parables to sports as its massive success was built on strong and loyal team work.
A lot of the ideas that brought Nike to bear were not solely Knight’s.
"I’d tell men and women in their midtwenties not to settle for a job or a profession or even a career. Seek a calling. Even if you don’t know what that means, seek it. If you’re following your calling, the fatigue will be easier to bear, the disappointments will be fuel, the highs will be like nothing you’ve ever felt."All I wanted to Hear !
I was pretty sure I’d enjoy this one and I was right, I really liked it!The story, told in first person by Phil himself, begins by focusing on his early life, most notably his post-college adulthood in the early 1960s.
I enjoyed the whole book but began to get impatient with this part - Only because I felt this young adult desire to travel the world wasn’t too unique, and I was eager to get started on the Nike story.
Loved this book. It was very inspiring to read Phil Knight's story of how he built one of the world's most successful companies. It also inspired me to finish writing Underdog!
In fact, the co-founder (and major driving force), Phil Knight, was a runner in college and his driving goal was to produce top class running shoes.
No, rather light didn’t bounce off him - he absorbed it like a black hole.Nike started to grow steadily, but Phil was in the habit of spending every last cent the company could raise on producing more stock.
It was a joy and an inspiration to spend time with Phil Knight and to learn his story.NB: I was running in the early 70's when the leading brand of shoe in the UK seemed to be New Balance (the shoes I wore).
Those words are the life story of Phil Knight.
Thank you, Phil.This book is well worth every hard-won word, shared and earned over 50+ years of grueling competition.
Perhaps Phil's greatest advice, and example, are the words he shared on his book tour in Portland where he told us all, "The only time you must not fail is the last time you try." Pick your heroes with the greatest of care.
Phil Knight, your name shall stand beyond your lifetime in our generation's Pantheon of Heroes for never failing to try.
تبدیل شد به بهترین کتابی که تا حالا خوندم فیل نایت با نوشتن این کتاب مارو دعوت میکنه تا به مدت 19 سا
And yet Phil Knight expertly presented the mortal side of a legendary CEO; he forsook platitudes and business jargons, instead opted for relatable anecdotes that he could trade with general reading public over cocktail.
If until then I saw Knight as a bohemian, who employed a playboy attitude toward barriers and setbacks, in this chapter I could clearly felt his heaving emotions, from grief to joy, from proud to anger… The book covered the founding of Nike, first formed as Blue ribbon Sports, through its 1980 public offering.
"For some, I realize, business is the all-out pursuit of profits, period, full stop, but for us the business was no more about making money than being human is about making blood. Yes, the human body needs blood. It needs to manufacture red and white cells and platelets and redistribute them evenly, smoothly, to all the right places, on time, or else. But that day-to-day business of the human body isn't our mission as human beings. It's a basic process that enables our higher aims, and life alw
There was some stuff that I feel didn't really need to be included, though I can see why it was, and was still interesting to read.All in all, a fascinating look at the beginnings of a sports giant, and a rather inspiring memoir about doing things your own way, being true to yourself, and making more out of life than just money.
Anyone interested in the brand will enjoy the trivia, but this is also an inspiring memoir for people who are interested in stories of overcoming adversity, of the little guy with sharp teeth, of a start-up business that ultimately became one of the most successful in the world.Highly recommend.
Shoe Dog is an extraordinary hero's journey, an epic tale of faith, unparalleled determination, excellence, failure, triumph, hard-earned wisdom, and love. It's nothing short of a miracle that Nike exists. I finished the last sentence in complete awe, inspired and grateful for the experience.--Lisa Genova, New York Times bestselling author of Still Alice and Inside the O'Briens
It follows Phil Knight's professional career starting from a small running shoe importer up until Nike becoming a publicly traded company.
My biggest complaint, however, is that the book largely just revealed to me that I just don't like Phil Knight very much.
In fact, it seemed like he only wrote about it in his book so he could name drop all of the A-List athletes that shared condolences with him.
Maybe other people won't interpret his stories the same way as I did, but I came away with a pretty poor impression of Phil Knight.
While reading, I was thinking, did Phil Knight really write this book himself, but then I learned of his background, his extensive love of reading and that he kept journals and the book just definitely felt like something he wrote.
I was at first perplexed that Knight doesn't go into the endorsement contracts with someone like Jordan that clearly made Nike a behemoth, but I later changed my thoughts after talking to a friend about the book (S/O to Janeen).
I think by eliminating those huge endorsement deals, the book felt gritty.
Great story.
Phil Knight described with amazing details his journey from selling shoes out of his car to building a multi-billion dollar company.
All important people in Phil Knight's life seem to be rich and powerful.
Knight's parents paid for his college, for his expensive MBA.
When he was in Japan, his dad's friends checked in a nice hotel, took him to trade exchange, introduced him to importers.
The moral of the story is almost: Take as much risk as you could as long as you have your rich parents to catch you when you fall.
Co-founder of Nike, Phil Knight, has a remarkable life story of starting this world-wide shoe brand. I love reading memoirs and the story has places with keen interest--yet other areas are boring and could have been easily cut. The results is something OK but NOT amazing and page-turning for the reader. The 386 pages could have been cut to something like 200 or 225 and been much better. It's OK and worth reading.
Overall: Meh. This book doesn't contain much. No real business or leadership insight. Not even an interesting story about the formation of Nike. Mostly the life of Phil Knight and Nike's early legal trouble. Truth be told, Phil Knight sounds to be an all around self-absorbed individual. Not someone I'd ever look up to. I'm still a fan of Nike products, just not this book.
If you’re following your calling, the fatigue will be easier to bear, the disappointments will be fuel, the highs will be like nothing you’ve ever felt."Shoe Dog is the best business memoir I've ever read and the second most influential book I've read this year so far.
While everyone else was laughing, rioting, he (Johnson) would be the sane one, sitting quietly in the middle of the table reading a book." What once started as a "crazy idea" of Knight in 1962, despite being dizzy with existential angst, and fears about the future, and doubts about himself, as all young men and women in their mid-twenties are, later on went on to become a billionaire business and asset to the world.

Any successful business has had its share of ups and downs which later on, makes for a absolute cracker of a story. But when narrated by an athlete with the same energy as that of Prefontaine, it can only fan your flames for pursuing your passion, in one way or the other. Just do it.
اینکه فیل نایت که اصولا نویسنده نیست تا این حد در این کار موفق بوده قابل ستایش است.2-فضای داستان صمیمی و بی تکلف بود.
شخصیت پردازی برای شخصیت های اصلی داستان بسیار قوی بود و کنش ها کاملا واقعی و معقول به نظر می رسیدند.
شکل روایی البته مشکل کوچکی داشت (شاید هم بزرگ) اینکه زاویه روایت بین اول شخص و دانای کل در رفت و آمد بود.
Wow! What a delightful read it is. Shoe Dog was in my reading list for a quite long time, but I never managed time to read it. But now I am gladsome that I read this stunning memoir. We all heard about the brand NIKE, a shoe company. But we don't know about the journey of NIKE's founders Philip Knight and Bowerman. We definitely Google some facts, but Google will not connect us to their story emotionally. Read the full review of this amazing book here - Blog
Wow! What an unexpectedly brilliant book. I wasn’t expecting such a thrilling emotional ride. I absolutely loved it. You don’t have to be a business buff to enjoy Shoe Dog. Phil Knight tells the story of the birth of Nike. From an entrepreneur’s point of view, I enjoyed picking the business lessons from the story, but there’s a lot more story, people and characters than there is Business takeaways. I got really emotional as the story reached the end. Absolutely brilliant, highly recommend.
“To study the self is to forget the self. Mi casa, su casa. Oneness—in some way, shape, or form, it’s what every person I’ve ever met has been seeking.”The very first memoir that made me stick to it until the last page, it gives an insight into Phil Knight's life, author of this book and founder of  NIKE , shows you all the uncut footage, behind-the-scenes world of building and running a legendary American multinational corporation. It's startling to read how a young boy who once borrowed $50 in
It's startling to read how a young boy who once borrowed $50 in a quest to create something of his own who never thought that someday will own his own company and would be a billionaire and not just that, how he has struggled all through those years to get where he is...HATS OFF _/\_Definitely, reading this book has given me a technical understanding of the business world, how horrifying it could get and how not to stop at any point in time, no matter how much you're failing-“Let everyone else call your idea crazy .

Throughout the whole book I sensed this truthfulness in his writing , he wasn’t shy in showing his weaknesses and his miss judgments; he didn’t want to make it seems like you need some kind of super powers to build a brand as big as Nike ,or that it’s a one man job , or that you don’t need to make important sacrifices for it.
And his commitment for what Nike represents,as a brand, which for him is so much more than a business that’s making him extremely rich , was very enduring .By the end of this book I was completely sold .
