https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355434.Hitler
Fest discusses the strident simplicity of the Nazi party’s propaganda, its mastery of new media, of the technologies of omnipresence (radio, the private plane in which Hitler crisscrossed the nation), Hitler’s celebrity sexual charisma*, and the overwhelming, operatic stagecraft of the rallies—but what mattered most of all, he says, when it came to the hijacking of the German state and the use of its authority and organization to prosecute a genocidal war of continental conquest, was the very simple fact that “no one seemed to grasp who Hitler really was.” No one, at least, among his domestic backers and Western European appeasers (Joseph Roth knew); they all realized too late that Hitler didn’t want their approval—he wanted to destroy and replace them.
In July 1939, Adolf Hitler said to Admiral Donitz: on no account must a war with Great Britain be allowed to develop ..
This is the way dictators end up killing 60 million people and destroying their own countries ...
*** A Flood of Evil***UPDATE 6/12/13 ...Fest's description of the events of January 1933 is utterly brilliant.
The first section, until 1923, I read more than a year ago as research for the first section of my novel-in-progress (CHOOSING HITLER).
Now I have read Fest's presentation and analysis of Hitler's activities from the time he left prison in 1924 through the national political campaign of 1930.
Great book, right up there with William L. Shirer's "Berlin Diary" and "Rise and Fall of the Third Reich." A must-read for those interested in how Hitler came to power in Germany and the lessons and relevance to modern political demagogues and movements. Very long (700 pages) but it flies by if you're interested in the topic.
We all know about the concentration camps, the Holocaust, the forced sterilization and elimination of those considered "weak" or "feeble-minded".
The author explores the moods and thoughts of the times and how Hitler was able to utilize these to his advantage and rise to ultimate power.
I have to disagree, though, with the author's conclusion that Hitler's ideas somehow died with him.
Even today, there are people out there who believe that those who are different from them, be it by race, religion, sexuality, or ideology, should be eliminated.
It is useful to understand how a demagogue could take advantage of fear and ignorance to impose their will upon a nation.
In the introduction of Volker Ullrich's Hitler: Ascent 1889–1939, the author describes the only four seminal biographies of Adolf Hitler.Of Fest's book he writes: The thesis that Hitler was basically a power-hungry political opportunist came in for some heavy historical revision in the following decades.
In one review, historian Klaus Hildebrand predicted that Fest's pioneering work would represent "the definitive book on Adolf Hitler for quite some time." That held true for twenty-five years until another British historian, Ian Kershaw, took up the challenge of a major Hitler biography.
A penetrating portrait of evil by a former youth who fought in the Wehrmacht who later became a psychoanalyst. This book was so well researched and written that I may read it again. I did re-read sections on several occasions which will lead me to take on Ian Kershaw's most thorough biography.
I think this is the definitive biography of Hitler.
This book is quite daunting-- I mean, who wants to spend hours reading over 800 pages about someone as shitty as Hitler?
Well, I was a little curious, and my Papa left this book behind when he passed away, so I decided to ruin a number of summery days reading about Adolf Hitler.
Correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems to me you cannot describe the life and character of Adolf Hitler without including the Holocaust.
But overall, this is a complete, riveting account of the life of Hitler, and a reader walks away with the understanding of who Hitler was and how he came to be that way.
A great and insightful biography.
I had a peculiar surreal dream-like feeling during the part of the biography covering the late 20s - you know, it's time to wake up now!
I haven't read a lot of Hitler biographies, but this one certainly seems to give a coherent and consistent psychological picture.
I was occasionally irritated by comments about Hitler's support in England or about how Hitler and the party weren't all  that  antisemitic in the early 30s (even though the author states that the SA would pass around collection cans labeled "For the destruction of the Jews"), but looking at the whole work, perhaps I am just overly sensitive.The Kindle version has many typographical mistakes that look like OCR-type errors.
A very very good read. tons of personal info and interesting facts. Spoiler alert: He's still a monster of unmatched magnatude!!!!!!
Review from https://darrengoossens.wordpress.com/2015/09/07/the-hollow-man-filled-with-hate/.Hitler by Joachim C. Fest, Weidenfeld and Nicholson, London, 1974. 844 pages. Translated by Richard and Clara Winston.  Title page of Hitler by J.C.Fest. Cancelled from the Monash University library. This is a biography, though after about 1933 it really becomes a history of the third Reich, albeit one that pays even more attention that usual to the Führer's quirks and foibles -- for Hitler is always, al
(I am not so sure -- Hitler's Germany was paying its bills by printing money and would have come undone financially had it not gone to war, I suspect.)We see the miasma of anti-Semitism and German nationalism that existed in pre-WWI Vienna, we see the reaction to the 'betrayal' of 1918, the anger created by the Versailles treaty and war reparations -- Hitler comes out (inevitably, perhaps) as a mix of his inherent nature (his ability to judge and manipulate people, his uncanny abilities as an orator, his unshakeable belief that he and he alone knew what to do and how) and the environment that shaped him, that let his warped genius thrive.
The insights offered here are invaluable, as we miss critical lessons if we simply dismiss Hitler as "evil" or presume that the circumstances that led him to power were unique and could never happen again.
Fest describes how the economic, social, and cultural conditions, the agendas of others (both friend and foe) around him, and the oratorical and organizational gifts that he was able to leverage, further enabled with some luck, enabled the rise of National Socialism and Hitler as its leader.
Fascinating! I thought there were parallels between Hitler abd Trump. There are bHitler did not connect with other people, except in how to use them or kill them. He was completely into himself and was able to intimidate others. I was unaware that there were many who were under him and hated him. There were several attempted or planned coups. This was well written. Of course, there was nothing written about Trump. That was my interest and surprisingly there were very clear parallels between them.
20/20
Hard book to read, I read a chapter at a time.The first part of the book is most important - showing how Hitler became Hitler.And it is an important read.
This book covers in alot of detail the early life of Hitler, an area I wasn't as familiar with.
Поважна книга...
A bestseller in its original German edition and subsequently translated into more than a dozen languages, Joachim Fest's Hitler as become a classic portrait of a man, a nation, and an era.
Fest tells and interprets the extraordinary story of a man's and a nation's rise from impotence to absolute power, as Germany and Hitler, from shared premises, entered into their covenant.
Fest reveals the singularly penetrating politician, hypnotizing Germans and outsiders alike with the scope of his projects and the theatricality of their presentation.
Fest also, perhaps most importantly, brilliantly uncovers the destructive personality who aimed at and achieved devastation on an unprecedented scale.
Fest brings the reader face to face with the phenomenon that was Hitler:his humble origins, the passage through his formative influences, the revelation of his oratorical powers on which began the seemingly inexorable self-propulsion to the heights of power, the glory years when he presided over the economic and military recovery of Germany, the brilliant then catastrophic conduct of the war, and finally the shrinking of his power from the broad expanse of Europe to the narrow, shallow hole in which his sooty remains and that of his devoted mistress Eva Braun were buried after she slipped through the Allied cordon of Berlin to wed him and die by his side.
Non perché sia lungo quasi mille e cento pagine in cui a volte le subordinate si accatastano implacabili; e neppure a causa dei numerosissimi errori di stampa che, specie nella seconda metà, minano non solo l’ortografia ma pure la sintassi.
Il racconto di Fest, risalente alla metà degli anni settanta e poi continuamente rivisto, è dettagliato, documentatissimo con citazioni che vanno dagli archivi del tempo alla memorialistica: l’autore cerca di raccontare l’uomo dietro alla maschera e per farlo analizza con precisione la società e gli esseri umani con cui interagisce.
Il risultato è un libro non facile ma quanto mai necessario: per non dimenticare, specie in tempi di nuove fascinazioni per gli uomini forti e di spiccate personalizzazioni in politica.
Fest presented in this book.
A thoroughgoing, interesting, compelling and, above all, complete and satisfying account of the life of Hitler and of the political, cultural and economical conditions of Europe in its totality.
The result is a new understanding of the circumstances and the causes of the deeds that occured in Germany and all over the Europe.
A book recommended to all the people who want to understand exactly what the nazi phenomenon was like, about what concept and ideas was based and why an entire nation could follow faithfully one single person towards the ruin of the war.
This book was time-consuming, the writing is florid (German is sometimes a pain, sometimes a delight when translated; this book features both), and the material is crushingly, appropriately serious.
What little relief abides is in the passages illustrating the obsessive, nearly farcical aspects of Hitler's character.
In most histories, Hitler is described, sometimes accurately, too often not.
In this book, more than any other, Hitler is understood.
However great the goings-on of politics and war, their conductors are mere people, and this book succeeds tremendously in highlighting the strengths that brought Hitler to power and mesmerized the German people, without lionizing him or obscuring his objective weaknesses as a leader.
I was FORCED to read this treatise of Hitler's life for a History of World War Two course at the University of South Dakota.
I found it to be overly complex, and the author had a tendency to attribute virtually every negative aspect of Hitler's over-analyzed life to the reason that Hitler did the things he did.
It was slow, excruciatingly detailed, and nearly as long as the man's life.
But then I think that there are so many other things I want to accomplish in my life...reading Fest's Hitler biography twice is not on my bucket list.
Heard this was one of the definitive general biographies. Reader gets a sense of the active politician dodging and weaving and often nearly losing in the lead up to the Beer Hall Putsch. History is contingent. What if. Here is a maker of history one wishes had not "succeeded" -- history is far from trends and forces, F. Braudel, the Annales school, and tectonic scale history notwithstanding.
Después de buscarlo casi tan exhaustivamente como los rusos buscaron su cuerpo, esta biografía de Hitler la vine encontrado en una vieja librería de Madrid. Al fin lo tengo y lo conservo como una joya de la historia que me espera por leer. De todos modos, ya conozco el final.
I've read it twice, once when I was 10, then again in college. It was one of my first adult books, along with Helter Skelter. My dad left these 2 books next to the crapper along with a pile of LeCarre novels.
I found this book to be quite tedious to read and monotonous in tone. I can see what the author was trying to achieve, but for me he wasn't successful. I, unfortunately, couldn't even finish the book.
The book is a tough read. But the author doesn't simply write about Hitler, but paints a picture of Hitler's environment and the European society at that time. This leaves us with an understanding of how Hitler was able to perversely influence the nation to further his own agenda.
This book was a hard read(not sure if it was this exact book but was the same idea)This book was hard to take in you have to read the same part twice to Completely understand.I find history to be interesting and this book is very LONG!!!!!
Joachim Fest betrachtet die grausame Persönlichkeit Hitler in all seinen Facetten. Es entstand so eine neue Sicht auf die Zeit des Nationalsozialismus. Dies ist ein sehr interessantes aber auch anstrengendes Buch (Seitenzahl!).
