https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13480272-dead-stars
But two decades is still a young year compared to the three centuries of Christianity and the many beliefs which the friars have embedded to Filipinos.
Her morena skin tells stories that she is a Filipina raised with the changes of time.
New beginnings for the coming change.Alfredo is a young lawyer caught in the tide of change and the upkeep of traditions.
He gets excited with the happy challenges a new love brings .
Torn between the definite Maria Clara in Esperanza or the amusement in the smile of Julita.
It's funny how we can all be Alfredo, Esperanza even Julia at one point in our lives.
It's really crazy, this thing we all call 'love'.
It can bring us pain, hope, happiness, it can even make us dream...But maybe, we have to stop loving with eyes wide shut.
Before it's too late, we have to wake up and face reality.
Because this love may be classified as an abstract noun, it is all the more an emotion, and the greatest task bestowed upon us, lovers, is to be able to decipher if the feeling is real or just a by product of our 'dreams'.
(view spoiler)[But society practically has him married to Esperanza, and so he does nothing about his feelings for Julia.
Eight years later, in a chance encounter with Julia in her hometown, Alfredo realizes that, while he never truly forgot her, all the feelings he had for her were long gone.
Vanished.This situation reminds me of an 80's song with a line that goes: "It isn't quite the way it was before, I remember the boy, but I don't remember the feeling anymore..."*Perhaps, Alfredo loved Julia at that time, when they met.
"Mystery--" she answered lightly, "that is so brief--""Not in some," quickly. "Not in you.""You have known me a few weeks; so the mystery.""I could study you all my life and still not find it.""So long?""I should like to." I find it somewhat ironic that I should read this short story promptly after reading The Looking Glass because they are almost in direct opposition to each other, yet they hold similar meanings in my eyes. Of course, the writing, the storyline, the characters, and their dilem
Of course, the writing, the storyline, the characters, and their dilemmas are vastly different, but what stood out to me once again is this theme of choices and risks and the uncertainty of outcomes involved in such.
Whereas The Looking Glass offers a dismal and pessimistic view of taking risks and how that can play out negatively in the future, Dead Stars seems to beg the question, What if?
Eventually, it propels him to seek out and pursue those long overdue answers but he discovers that he's been holding on to illusions of What could have been?
that have long faded, leaving only remnants of its expired mirage, the light of dead stars.
Of course, literary styles have evolved since then and the verbose style in Dead Stars might not be that attractive anymore to contemporary readers.The story evolves around Alfredo, Esperanza, and Julia, and the complications of love and feelings, old and new, that surround them.
I am a staunch believer in love strengthened and nurtured by time and that is what Alfredo and Esperanza have.
Whatever feelings Julia might have stirred in him, I can not, will not, call it love.Too much time and effort were wasted by Alfredo in thinking about Julia all these time he was married to Esperanza.
I just learned that "Dead Stars" was the first feminist text in the Philippines.As the readers would notice, it broke the notion of patriarchal system as the society sees men as rational type or in line with logic while women are the emotional kind. The protagonist Alfredo was very vulnerable in love. He was trapped in deciding what his heart desires. But in the end, he found himself merely infatuated (view spoiler)[ with Julia (hide spoiler)] after he deliberately made a decision (view spoiler)
The protagonist Alfredo was very vulnerable in love.
But in the end, he found himself merely infatuated (view spoiler)[ with Julia  (hide spoiler)] after he deliberately made a decision (view spoiler)[ by chosing Esperanza (hide spoiler)].I did not much like the story because of Alfredo's unfaithfulness.
I also like how she made it by the perspective of a man.
If it will be of a woman (Esperanza), it would be the same old martyr kind of story, and it will be the usual woman longing for her lover.
*deep breath*I didn't like Dead Stars.The fancy words, the flowery expressions, they infuriated me.
I cannot believe that a fellow Filipino wrote Dead Stars.
Not because I did not think we are that talented (because we are), but because this short story was claimed to have given birth to modern Philippine writing and yet, it did nothing, nothing to make itself accessible to Filipinos that can barely read/speak the English language.
Crap, I'm not into vocabulary lately but I got a mouthful of it from Dead Stars.and don't even get me started on the wretched story.
Benitez is a master poet.
Fact that the author was able to tell the story from a man's perspective deserves praise.That being said, I wish I could write like Ms. Benitez but with a little less fancy-schmancy synonyms.
Frank Herbert, author of Dune, mastered this art.
Not too many writers have the flair or the guts to come up with a piece like this.
The story, and the telling of it, will have a challenging time keeping up with today's fast-paced, distracting (and perhaps "idealistic") demands.*And yes, most of my reviews focus more on how the author told the story than the story itself.
Sigh.What a douchebag.Okay, this story did not appeal to me at all. Every word that she writes is so confusing and jumbled up, and I ended up having to reread every. single. line. This gave me a headache with all the unnecessary metaphors and descriptions. Simplicity lady, simplicity! I didn't even understand why she had to put multiple chapters! Alfredo is a doucebag, Esperanza is a jealous quiet person who won't say ANYTHING WHATSOEVER, and Julia is gullible, and naive, and led on by Alfredo.This was not a very likable cast.Sigh.
"Dead Stars" is actually a short story written by Paz Marquez Benitez in 1925, which ushered in an era of Philippine writing in English.The story is mainly about three people: Esperanza, Alfredo Salazar, and Julia Salas.
It didn't quite end like most Filipino readers would expect today, though, which I'm glad because it not only cut through the mundane predictability of modern day local tellings that bore me to tears but it also gave the story a great sense of believability.
I was once an Esperanza and a Julia at certain "phases" in that relationship, maybe even an Alfredo upon realizing and seeing only dead stars.
Anyway, I'm giving this three stars because I like the story.
"Dead Stars" - where love is never expressed in polite conversation but felt and painfully missed.To sum it all up:Alfredo likes Julia but he doesn’t want to give up Esperanza.
Generally, “Dead Stars” only delve on fantasies.
At the end of the story, when he sees Julia again, he then realized his true feelings—that he was not in love with Julia.
“Dead Stars” represent the fantasies and desires of Alfredo whom he later found out to be fleeting and had vanished with youth and the passage of time.
A typical MMK story. ELLA CUES TEARS
I just remember having read the short story and directed a play (of it) in my college days. I took my English classes seriously even though I'm on a medical course. :)
Original post from One More PageI thought of writing a review for this short story that we discussed last weekend, but I was honestly a tad lazy to do it just yet.
Discuss briefly one internal and one external factor or force that might have contributed to Alfredo’s decision to marry Esperanza despite the apparent mutual attraction between him and Julia.
Another factor, which comes from him, is that because even if there is a mutual attraction between him and Julia, he still feels the responsibility of his set wedding to Esperanza.
I first read this about 10 years ago and re-read it today.
I have returned to it a few times over the years as well.
The story evokes in the reader a truly vivid sense of the characters and their surroundings.
It does not take much to feel as though the conversations and scenes depicted are being experienced directly by the reader, as each of the characters, all at once.
The story is a universal one at its heart.
Unlike the object of its protagonist's affections, its allure has not diminished in the slightest with time.
This is not even a book. This was an article written by a Filipino for the Times magazine years ago. I have no idea what it is, but this story has left a huge impression on me.
this story will break your heart.
3.5 english lit
Basically the telenovella of yesteryear. Explains why the media industry nowadays is so saturated with cornball love triangle stuff. It's a 100, or so, year devolution.
BUT it actually has a great lesson for everyone about love and loyalty.After reading this, I realized that sometimes, we let ourselves attract to the people or things we shouldn't attract with.
We walk into the light and let the blinding illumination penetrate our minds and create illusions that we indulge with no doubt.
In which in this case, we let the light blind us and bring us to the place where flowers don't bloom and butterflies doesn't exist.
That in the end, sometimes, our bad decisions haunts until we admit to ourselves what great mistake we have done.
By that fact I have discovered that the short story, "Dead Stars" was written during the American Colonization of the Philippines, a time when the modern short story, critical essay, and free verse poetry were introduced.
(Mascarinas)	Paz’s way of writing is unremarkable, especially her style on Dead Stars, for me even it is the start of modern literature, it is considered one of the Philippine Literary classics.
Through this, we can take a clearer view, that the author lived in the time influenced by the Spanish Colonization and afterwards wrote the Dead Stars in her elder years during the American Colonization.
We had to read Dead Stars for a writing class in college.
I started reading it with the full notion that this was the first short story written by a Filipino (a woman in fact) in English.
Quick trivia: Paz Marquez Benitez was among the first freshman class of UP.I'm biased to favor how the story was told because I've always liked good prose.
If anything, Paz Marquez Benitez' reflection on love is so heart-aching that Dead Stars prove to be an evidence that Filipinos have great talent and can offer more beyond overplayed romance written nowadays for cheap entertainment.
If I had read it before, I would have been caught up in the what-ifs and if-onlys between Alfredo, Julia, and Esperanza.
I still think it is tragic, but I am more annoyed at Alfredo -- for his selfishness and wishy-washiness.
I feel so bad for Esperanza.
I am also annoyed at Alfredo for pitying Julia.
The language used by the author is a bit too florid for my taste but it added to the tragic/dramatic mood of the story.Lesson Learned: Don't get so caught up in dead stars, lest you extinguish the burning light that is near you.
Oh yes, nostalgia.
Reading Dead Stars brings back my first memories of UP Diliman.
I love the metaphors and the idyllic prose of Dead Stars.
I love how Julia was succinctly written and how she had transitioned into a dead star in the eyes of Alfredo in their subsequent meeting.
Or was it just pixie dusts in the lenses of his telescope of eyes during the first week they met?So all these years—since when?—he had been seeing the light of dead stars, long extinguished, yet seemingly still in their appointed places in the heavens.
It was a short story, but it took me a while to finish it as the excess usage of flowery words kind of bored me to death.
Reading the information about this story—who wrote it, when was it published—gave me an answer as to how distant it felt for me: it was written long before my parents were born, when my grandparents were mere toddlers.
Lterature has changed so greatly since then, but I don't think that's the main point.
I guess what I'm trying to say is that I expected too much from a story that only had a few heartfelt lines to offer.
This is not something I would want to read. The story line could use some improving but the fact that she wrote this in English (which isn't even her first language) is very impressive. I believe she wrote it in a slightly confusing way but still managed to get her point across but it required multiple re-reads...
Very confusing all throughout the story. I had no idea who the characters were and the relation they had to each other. The descriptions were very annoying, I mean does it really take a whole paragraph just to describe how the village looks like? Though I am impressed on how well she wrote in English, this story was just confusing.
A glimpse of an era where social pressures strangle the possibilities of youth and love. Highly reminiscent of The Age of Innocence.
It was okay. It was short and simple. It was nicely written but not engaging. I did not feel any sympathy for the main character. I did feel sorry for Esparanza even if it was implied that she was the one picked by Alfredo. I also think Julita was over-dramatic not to get married.
What's the real meaning of love? The long lasting waiting but the affection was gone but you made a promise? Or the affection you experience while in the process of waiting?Is love really worth all the pain?
