https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25372801-all-the-birds-in-the-sky
Damn, I don't even know how much I should say about it.The story follows two characters - Patricia, who is a witch, and Laurence who is the epitome of a science genius, building his own two-second time machine in middle school.
Strangely, though, the rest of this world feels like contemporary realism, with Patricia's witchiness and Laurence's genius defining them as outsiders and causing them to be bullied and punished by their parents.
His unsettling presence brings a darkness to the story, as we long to know what he wants from our protagonists.Stylistically, the book feels like magical realism, weaving elements of fantasy and sci-fi into everyday life.
But it sure does spend a lot of time on these two things:Patricia: "I want to ease people's suffering but my toxic asshole friends won't let me because I'm a nice person but everyone's convinced me that I'm actually the most egotistical person in the world despite all evidence to the contrary"Laurence: "I have a successful career in science saving the world with gobs of money while skydiving but wahh my beautiful girlfriend is drifting away and every time I see Patricia I notice the dimples on the backs of her knees or how perky her small (but big during sex) breasts are"...
It's a long and delightful and REAL conversation between the two, a heartfelt exploration and a synthesis, a heartbreaking tale and a true wonderment of fiction.I guess I kinda liked it.It's a lot more than a magical realism novel, and it's no experiment.
From the start we're thrown into a futuristic society and a world full of fairytale (or birdlike) magic, and we follow Laurence and Patricia in a long-entwined tale of equal proportions and dialogue, their uneasy alliance, their estrangement, and finally, their enduring love.This is all about us, the readers, too.
One of the best books I have read in ages, easily in the top three I've read this year.
What a wildly imaginative, delightful novel.
I had no idea what to expect from this book but I was just thrilled with this book from the beginning to the end.
Patricia and Laurence, who meet each other as kids and develop a friendship of convenience that becomes much more by the end of the novel, are wonderfully drawn characters.
I love how fully fleshed out the felt.
There is a beautifully written scene between them toward the end of the novel, that is worth the price of admission.
The plot sort of collapses at the end and the magic of the world doesn't fully make sense but that's okay.
All the Birds in the Sky is a trove of near misses and reads like a low-budget, bad action flick. Among its flaws, the book contains: characters who lack depth, children who talk like adults, forced romance, and a hollow plot lacking substance.
Self-awareness paradoxically requires an awareness of the other  A magical savant, a super genius, the world on the brink of eco-apocalypse, possible ways out, or are the solutions as dangerous as the problem? and young love. What’s not to like? Laurence Amstead is your basic pre-ad tech genius, indulging in minor projects like inventing a two-second time machine you can wear on your wrist, and developing a chatty super-computer in his spare time. He is beset, of course, by the usual school bul
Laurence Amstead is your basic pre-ad tech genius, indulging in minor projects like inventing a two-second time machine you can wear on your wrist, and developing a chatty super-computer in his spare time.
I mean, the longer I live, the more I feel like the stuff I see and feel is like a tracing of the outline of the real stuff that’s beyond our perceptions.” “Like Plato’s cave,” Patricia said.
There is a lot of creativity on display here, particularly with the farther out tech elements and the softer-edged magical bits.
Patricia has a cat that was left out of the proceedings once she skips from heading off to witch school to being all grown up.
A short book, but every day the Kindle would taunt me with the slow progression of %86% .
. .I would groan and sigh every time I went to pick it up.
There was very little continuity, huge time jumps, and no cohesion of location - meaning I never knew exactly when or where the charaters were.
They said get lost in a book.
I was just lost.
An odd mash up of magic, sci-fi, and dystopia - I really couldn't tell what this book was trying to be.
"San Francisco never stopped astonishing Lawrence - wild raccoons and possums wondered the streets, especially at night, and their shiny fur and long tails looked just like stray cats, unless you look twice. Skunks nested under people's houses." Is there any magic left in the world? Magic to heal and provide hope. Has it been completely upstaged by technology, fallen into a meaningless oblivion? How far can technology go? Where does its contribution to society stop and the potential dangers beg
Let's try to find the answers in beautiful San Francisco through the eyes of our protagonists, Patricia, a witch, and Lawrence, a tech genius.To begin with, I need to say that I am really, really tired of the latest trend of parents being horrible.
To put it clearly and shout it for the world to hear, Lawrence and Patricia are one of the most beautiful, wonderful, well-matched and every positive adjective you can imagine couples we'll ever meet in a book.You may find this novel boring if you aren't all that interested in the cyber - world and technology in general.
Unbelievably stupid and I loved every minute of it.Guaranteed: lessons on how to become a bird and a witch, ice-cream-loving assassins part-timing as school advisors, inside perspective on suet and AI, magic school, nerds, bullying.
(c)Q:Patricia wasn’t naturally manic-depressive, but a big part of the instruction at Eltisley Maze had involved keeping two very different, maybe incompatible, states of mind at once—and in some ways, it was like being taught to be bipolar on purpose.
One tends to privilege personal insights in such matters.” (c)Q:My life plan involves never understanding my parents (c)Q:You know … no matter what you do, people are going to expect you to be someone you’re not.
ImpressiveSo I kinda loved this. We have 2 junior high outcasts named Patricia and Laurence, both painfully geeky and both destined to change the world.Until they grow up and go their separate ways to discover that what made them different made them awesome.Patricia goes to a magical school that was founded by the joining two seemingly disparate groups: healers and tricksters (#foreshadowing). It's like if you took  The Ability  by way of  The Magicians  for the magical aspects of her life. It's
We have 2 junior high outcasts named Patricia and Laurence, both painfully geeky and both destined to change the world.Until they grow up and go their separate ways to discover that what made them different made them awesome.Patricia goes to a magical school that was founded by the joining two seemingly disparate groups: healers and tricksters (#foreshadowing).
I understand why it wasn't given much attention, pacing-wise, but it still would have been interesting to learn more about.(view spoiler)[Eventually the AI created by Laurence (now named Peregrine) is fuzed with Patricia's magical tree, mirroring the earlier connection of the 2 distinct magical schools."You gave me life, but now you've given me something more valuable.
Eek. I gave it 85 pages, but I can't keep reading this book.
The writing is pretty bad.
I can't get past the writing style to actually enjoy what's happening in the story.
And because the novel is a weird mash-up of science fiction and fantasy—and I'm not sure if that's just accepted in this world because neither of the main characters is fazed by anything magical or inexplicable happening—it was difficult to get situated in the goings-on of the story.
When I read the first chapter I was intrigued, but as I got farther in I realized this one is just not for me.
4.25ish stars.Bizarre, insightful, quirky, and unique in its examination of the relationships between and within science, nature and humanity.Laurence and Patricia as characters are weird, dumb, and oh so real.
Every step of the way I was shaking my head at them, laughing at them, rolling my eyes, screaming at them in my head and rooting for them until the end.The novel was at once a small slice of life story about two very different social outcasts AND a giant commentary on the forces of nature and science.
It also had a lot to say about humanity as a whole.
All the Birds in the Sky's hook is that it is a story that blends sci-fi and fantasy.
All the Birds in the Sky makes for a world that I'd love to come back to, but would be perfectly happy if this was all that Anders chooses to do in this world.
While the world, story, and systems pay homage to SFF, reflect the real world, tap into fears about climate change, an unstable political climate, and questions our modern society, it's really all about Patricia and Lawrence.
The first part of the book reminded me in feel of Jo Walton's 'Among Others,' (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) both in its portrayal of nerdy childhood and in the general feel of the writing.
Or will they become arch-nemeses?This second part of the book reminded me more of The Rook (https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...) but could also draw comparisons to other tales involving secret societies and special powers.Overall, I thought the book had a bit of unevenness and places where it didn't quite fully develop the potential of the ideas, but nevertheless it was quite enjoyable.
There are novels that come along and utterly change how you think about fiction.
An incredibly human tale about love, connection, pain, growing up, taking responsibility, and finding balance in a world writhing with upheaval, All the Birds in the Sky chronicles the journey of Laurence and Patricia as they meet as children and grow to adulthood.
This is a beauty of a book, and personally, I think it will be a new classic for many years to come.
It may already be my favorite book I’ve read this year and it’s January for goodness sake!
Let it change the way you think of fiction.
Having read io9 for years (including CJA's posts on constructing narrative) and anticipating this novel for upwards of six months, I found All the Birds in the Sky really disappointing.
Not only does it feel like CJA didn't take her own advice on how to structure the novel, the quality of the writing varies widely through the book (at times it feels painfully amateurish and the dialogue is stilted).
There are also randomly inserted bits about science and technology that have seemingly been included solely because CJA liked them from her time at io9.
There were a number of times while reading Charlie Jane Anders'  All the Birds in the Sky  that I thought, "How am I going to review this?"What I realized, however, is that while the book was utterly different than I expected it to be from the blurbs I read, and there's much about the plot that defies description, I found it to be an ambitious, poignant, slightly meandering, somewhat imperfect book, which packs a resonant, emotional punch.Laurence and Patricia meet in middle school. Both are out
But I soldiered on, and I am glad I did, for while the book is confusing and a little overblown, it's still utterly fascinating, and Laurence and Patricia are such fascinating characters that I couldn't tear myself away.Charlie Jane Anders is very talented—she really worked hard to create an entire world in this book.
While I wished at times she would have followed the core of her story a little more, I still was quite interested in what she was going to do with the characters and their story.
All the Birds in the Sky is a very different book.
It follows the friendship of Patricia, a witch, and Laurence, a science genius, from middle school to adulthood.On the surface the story is about the collision of the worlds of magic and science set against the decline of both the natural world and society.
Embedded in that context is the more personal story of friendship and love, what that means, and how it can take time to truly appreciate.
This probably isn't a book for everyone, but I loved every minute of it.
This multiple-award-winning fantasy is Tor's free ebook of the month (Sept.
2018) if you join their free ebook club here: https://www.tor.com/2018/09/18/downlo...
If you like fantasy and SF, this is definitely worth doing.
No purchase necessary, no commitments, the monthly free ebooks are high quality (usually books I was already interested in), and the weekly Tor newsletters are actually interesting and non-annoying.
I highly recommend it if you're a SF/fantasy reader.
Tip: Click on the above Tor link from the device that you want to download the ebook to.
The free offer is only good through midnight on Sept.
21 (U.S. Eastern Time).
An utterly unique book. Parts of it bear resemblance to things I've read before, but as a whole, it's completely original. And heartbreaking, and confounding, and joy-inducing, and terrifying. I won't soon forget Patricia and Laurence. Nor do I ever want to.
I LOVE THIS BOOK. I need to think about what I write because it's a novel that could easily be misrepresented, but I loved it so much I am BURSTING. I feel like I need to write Tor publicity a handwritten thank you note WITH A GLITTER GEL PEN for letting me read it early. It was everything I didn't know I wanted. :D READ IT AND THEN COME TALK ABOUT LOVE AND CONSCIOUSNESS AND SACRIFICE WITH ME!!!More thoughts: http://ladybusiness.dreamwidth.org/20...
The premise for this book could have worked...but, well- it didn't! I have enjoyed "some" really well written and engaging YA book. This book read like a YA novel written by a tween.
I'm putting this aside for now. It's good, but I'm struggling to keep interest.
I pre-ordered this book because I was excited for it - I have enjoyed Anders' short stories and this one sounded interesting.
Patricia discovers some witchy abilities and Laurence finds an affinity in science and engineering.
I liked the characters of these two people and actually grew frustrated when the author would skip major events, which would later just be mentioned in passing.
I wanted to be there, to bear witness to those events, to see the pain and growth.
I think this is what makes the book four stars instead of five for me - I wanted it to be more connected.
Lovely book that I think lost itself some in the second half.
I loved Laurence building an A.I. in his bedroom closet and Patricia desperately wanting to somehow use her magical powers she learned she had as a child.
During the second half of this book, I got a bit confused on what Anders was trying to do.
I think that this book would have worked better if Anders stuck to one main theme in the second half and wrote the plot around that one theme.

It's definitely not a book I would recommend to everyone, in spite of the fact that I did enjoy it a lot.The positive thing is that I can say without a doubt that I've read something unique.
I can't say much without spoiling the book for you, but All the birds in the sky explores the conflict between nature and science in a clever way.
I liked the book because it is weird (you don't say LOL) and clever and it does develop the original idea in the best possible way, but I did not love it, because of my lack of involvement.
Once I had swallowed that particular plot point and continued with the story it made it much easier to digest any other fantastical element - like say another child creating a sentient AI in his clothes cupboard.
In 2016 that doesn’t mean dropping a comic book or TV reference, it means pandering to some of the tiniest micro communities on the web, so that when we recognise something we jump out of our seats and say HOLY SH!TBALLS I KNOW THAT THING!
I then noticed these appeals to other micro communities in gaming and geek culture that in my view failed to serve the story.A similar thing was going on with the humour.
I take little to no pleasure in saying mean things about writing, so I will end this review by sharing that I feel glad that others have enjoyed this book.
Perhaps people who like or have a higher tolerance for nonlinear, funky, uncouth books with fantastical elements will like All the Birds in the Sky. To finish on a positive note, here is a quote that one of the characters says that I loved, especially given the need for empathy and compassion when the United States is currently governed and controlled by those who lack those very qualities:"'I don't actually think that ethics are derived from principles.
