https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15055.Oranges_Are_Not_the_Only_Fruit
I miss God who was my friend.
I don't even know if God exists, but I do know that if God is your emotional role model, very few human relationships will match up to it.""As it is, I can't settle, I want someone who is fierce and will love me until death and know that love is as strong as death, and be on my side for ever and ever.
I want someone who will destroy and be destroyed by me.
There are many forms of love and affection, some people spend their whole lives together without knowing each other's names.
Interspersed with these profoundies are little whimsy-cutes that are I suppose intended to offset the serious tone, like this novel is letting you know just how unserious it takes its very serious self, all seriousness aside.
Unless you (correctly) think dick jokes are hilarious, you might not take my word when it comes to comedy.At the same time, we have these little asides where Percival's quest for the grail is told, drawing some comparison where I guess Jeanette is Percival and the grail is, umm, her sexuality or something?
She was ready to accept this life of servitude to God. She didn’t know any different; it’s the only path she believed was open to her.
It begins with Genesis and Winterson chooses to end it with Ruth, the story that recognises female achievement and is read by modern critics as a celebration of lesbianism.
Perhaps the book needed more time to grow and develop, perhaps the story needed to be carried a little further.
It’s unusual for a first book, most authors, if they attempted something like this, it would be after they’d already released a few novels and were relatively established.
I seriously had no idea that this year I would read 2 lesbian books (& 4 gay ones!: “The Line of Beauty,” “The Mad Man,” On the Road,” & of course let us not forget “The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn”).
It's an obscure genre, if you ask me.
“Tipping the Velvet” was disappointingly bland, although racy in parts and historically accurate, but it still felt a tad conventional.
As an outsider in her rather comically tightly-knit religious community, Jeanette interweaves fable-like metaphors to better understand her mother’s absolute rejection of her sexual orientation.
But instead of deserting God, it's both interesting & empowering to see how she manages to strengthen her personal relationship with Him.
Thinly-veiled memoir of the author's youth growing up with a religous nutter of a mother and a father whose character was subsumed entirely by his monster of a wife's.I don't know why some girls become lesbians, presumably most are just made that way, but I do think some become that way through choice.
In the book its almost as if there was one thing calculated to offend the mother and the entire community of zealots as a mortal sin, but not offend anyone else in the world, the only possible rebellion for a girl who wasn't at all rebellious by nature.
A delicious fruit bowl....Funny, clever, poetic, quirky, creative well written bittersweet story. Jeannette's innocence was so real......her heart pure. A terrific inspiring small book! Amazing how humor- and 'witty-charm' can transform sensitive situations. Thanks Cecily!
I took them home and put them in my sock drawer, only taking them out on Thursdays for my bike ride down the street to piano lessons.This book is exactly like those gloves.
I found this book while on a field trip for pre-college English class, crammed in backward on a shelf between two books by Anais Nin. The title made me smile, so I turned to the first page and read the introduction.
It is safe to say that Jeanette Winterson’s writing wormed its way into my heart rather fast.
It was nice to watch Jeanette (the main character) grow along with the conflict of accepting her "demon".
A quirky and warm-hearted tale of a girl, Jeanette, growing up in an evangelical household in England with a goal for her to become a missionary.
She is well-behaved, a true believer comfortable with this goal.
Quite often it did, her will or the Lord’s I couldn’t say.Jeanette is home schooled for a long time.
How much of this is Winterson’s own history and the love of storytelling by Jeanette in the book a window on the author’s own path to becoming a writer?
Rating: 5* of fiveThe Book Description: Jeanette, the protagonist of Oranges Are Not The Only Fruit and the author's namesake, has issues--"unnatural" ones: her adopted mam thinks she's the Chosen one from God; she's beginning to fancy girls; and an orange demon keeps popping into her psyche.
Winterson, poor lambkin, had it even worse because her deeply insane mother was about as unloving as it's possible for a human being to be.
I miss God who was my friend.
I want to be able to say “I have read 500 novels, hear me roar!” So, I’m eating up SHORT novels like a madman right now, never mind the quality, feel the pages!
But I think JW thought these were actually the best bits, because her writing took off in that direction (The Passion; Sexing the Cherry); so that puts me in the same situation as people who only like The Clash’s first album.
In 2011 JW issued her de-overdubbed version of Oranges called Why be Happy when you Could be Normal?
I CONTAIN MULTITUDESI only just issued a pronouncement that no one under 30 could write a good novel except Emily Bronte.
:) It's here:http://www.abc.net.au/local/stories/2...-----This book of fiction won the Whitbread Award (now the Costa) for first novel, but it appears to be an autobiographical memoir, judging by what the author has described at other times of her family and her growing up.Jeanette (same name) is adopted (almost kidnapped, it would seem) by Pentecostal evangelist parents and taught how to read from the Bible.
The only time her real mother turns up, Jeanette is sent out of the room, listens through the wall and hears lots of noise but is none the wiser.
Jeanette asks about her real mother.
I want to read it again and again to savour its sweet delights.Maybe Laura Doan's essay 'Sexing the Postmodern', about Winterson's work and theme development over this and two subsequent novels The Passion and Sexing the Cherry gave me a hunger to read this that made it taste so good ('hunger is the best sauce').
Maybe I felt along with Jeanette so keenly because working-class northern-ness and being in trouble for being queer and weird are familiar territory.
It evades the snares of a heterosexist culture and its language by turning them aside: 'to the pure all things are pure' cries Jeanette of her love for Melanie, convinced it must, as all good things, be holy.
She has such talent, and is one of the most unique writers that I have ever had the privilege to read.
I would gladly read anything, with Winterson's name attached to it.As this is Winterson's first acclaimed novel, I was pleasantly surprised to find how beautiful it was.
The story is based on Winterson's time with her Mother, and the goal for Jeanette to eventually become a missionary.
Jeanette meets a girl, and really, it ends in a bittersweet way.I think this book is deliciously entertaining, funny and I always admire the way Winterson manages to weave physiological and mythological events into her stories.
Oranges is a comforting novel. Its heroine is someone on the outside of life. She’s poor, she’s working class but she has to deal with the big questions that cut across class, culture and colour. Everyone, at some time in their life, must choose whether to stay with a ready-made world that may be safe but which is also limiting, or to push forward, often past the frontiers of commonsense, into a personal place, unknown and untried.  Winterson writes in her introduction to Oranges, and in this s
Winterson writes in her introduction to Oranges, and in this semi-autobiographical novel, that's the clincher.Before Jeanette Winterson became one of the better known names in lesbian literature, she was a devout Christian, being groomed for missionary work by her deeply religious and very obviously Christian zealot of a mother.
The former perhaps has links to God instructing Joshua as it correlates to her demons instructing her, while the latter seems to draw from Israelis being oppressed by their kings, their judges; just like Jeanette is oppressed by her mother.
Jeanette's mother is a strong character, both in terms of her role in the book, and in Jeanette's life.
This story is about a young lesbian girl, trying to navigate her way through a family, a background, and an era that refuses to recognize her, refuses to recognize her sexual identity and accept her as she is. Adopted, raised in a strict, religious household by a mother who was severe and domineering, this novel is partly autobiographical. This is a damn good book, first class story telling that you wouldn't expect to find in a first novel. Four solid stars.
I started keeping a notebook of the strangest sentences.
A few gems: "Our crocodile weaved in and out, ruining new shoes with sand and sawdust, sweating and sticking to each other." "I'll give you a cocktail stick only don't tell anyone what I use it for." "If she had taught me to read like other children had been taught to read, I wouldn't have these obessions.
I'd be happy with a pet rabbit and the odd stick insect." "It were at Bingo 'ousie 'ousie three times." And my personal favorite: "It runs right the way through life, though it starts with hyacinth growing, passes through milk monitor, and finishes somewhere at half-blue."There are themes here: Hating poor people, gay people, and non-believers.
Winterson tells the story of Jeanette by juxtaposing myths and fairy tales with the life events of the protagonist.
As she goes through adolescence, she struggles to come to terms with her sexuality which is demonized by the church, and her love of God and her relationship to the religious community.Unholy Sinner!Said to be autobiographical, Winterson denies this stating, "Oranges is the document, both true and false, which will have to serve for my life until I went to Oxford, and after that I daresay that whatever I tell you will be another document, one that is both true and false." Whatever the hell that means.Now that I’ve told you a little something about the book, I will force my opinion down your throat like an evangelical Christian standing in front of a Planned Parenthood.
You need a lot of patience for Jeanette Winterson's weird little Beowulfesque tangents, but if you can get past that, there are little gems of brilliant clarity scattered throughout.For me, this bit redeems all the boring parts:"But where was God now, with heaven full of astronauts, and the Lord overthrown?
As it is, I can't settle, I want someone who is fierce and will love me until death and know that love is as strong as death, and be on my side for ever and ever.
There are many forms of love and affection, some people can spend their whole lives together without knowing each other's names.

With only just a year of experience in reading English (besides just in articles or  children's books) it was hard to appreciate and understand the novel in its wholeness.Now, 9 years later, more mature in English and in reading all kinds, genres, lengths of books; I was positive and confident that this time around, reading Oranges would be a success, and it was.In 2009, I don't remember myself laughing at certain passages, or understanding certain allusions to literature (Jane Eyre, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland), history (Pol Pot, McCarthy).After 2009, I also spent a few years living in Manchester and the atmosphere, the landscapes, the whole feeling of suburban life in Northern England was more vivid to me and it was as if I was there.That what's interesting when rereading a book after almost 10 years.The book hasn't changed but you did, and the experience is entirely different.The reason I reread this book was because I good friend learnt that this was my first book I read in English and since Winterson is her favourite author we decided for a buddy read.
When I began reading it for the first time, I enjoyed it; Jeanette was a witty character, though a tad hard to relate to, and her life as a girl trying to break free of a small town is a story many of us can understand.What hurt the book for me was its pretence, emphasised in Winterson’s ludicrously self gratifying introduction.
It is difficult, for someone used to the more modest comments of authors such as Woolf (“I have my hopes for this book” – Mrs Dalloway), to understand how someone could be so arrogant and self indulged with themselves, especially after their apparently tragic childhood.
This, unfortunately, began to rear its ugly head in the novel, as well.
I am so glad I read this.
I want Jeanette Winterson to be my friend!
She managed to inject so much humour into some really sad circumstances and tell and charming and engaging story.
The narrative was, at times, disjointed, jumping forwards and backwards in time and going on many tangents.
However, this did not bother me.
In fact, it added to the parable-like feel of the book which was aided by the inclusion of some interesting myths and fairy tales.
5 stars.
Brilliant.I listened to this on audiobook and would highly recommed this format as Jeanette herself narrates and her narration adds even more character to the fictional Jeanette.
Semi-autobiographical tale of adopted Jess growing up in an austere evangelical family, rebelling religiously, socially and sexually as she tries to find her way in life. Seemed quite scandalous when I first read it, but much sadder and more touching now. For the truer, grittier, more analytical version, see "Why be happy when you can be normal?": http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/....There also seem to be significant autobiographical aspects to "Lighthousekeeping", as explained in my review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
"Oranges is an experimental novel," says Jeanette Winterson in her thoroughly obnoxious introduction: "its interests are anti-linear...You can read in spirals." It's nothing of the sort.
Winterson's trying to make her protagonist's journey into her sexuality into a knight's quest, all mythic and metaphorical, and it's silly.
My, Winterson does take herself seriously!
"Oranges is a threatening novel," she says, slopping mortar on her own edifice.
But then - "Worse, it does these things with such humor and lightness that those disposed not to agree find that they do." The whole intro is like this, embarrassingly self-aggrandizing.
The plethora of Bible allusions, for which the novel won many accolades, obviously weren't obvious to me, and so I think I missed the most clever part of the book.Nevertheless, the cute, manipulative child voice was peeving enough to hate and distrust the "autobiographical" work.
Jeanette grows from 9 to 16 in the course of this story but her voice remains unchanged.
The crafty, disjointed sentences and one line paragraphs frequently thrown to evoke emotions work well if you keep imagining the nine year old innocent kid who isn't provided a school education, not the sixteen year old rebellion who has had lesbian sexual experiences at least twice.
Smartly written, frequently tragic, and ends with a whimper on a cold dark winter night.
Thankfully, I did not have to contend with the pointy end of religion coming at me from all sides; though we did have to sing hymns twice a week in morning assembly (epic dirges that lasted for WEEKS!), and were taught religious education until the age of 14 (99% of which no longer troubles my memory, I am proud to say).
In hindsight, I wish I had paid more attention to the saint in question, and researched whether his head had indeed been severed in real life.
I recognised many of the personality types in her story, because I grew up with so many people exactly like them.
This was an interesting book to read immediately upon finishing Beyond Belief: My Secret Life Inside Scientology and My Harrowing Escape - here is another book about a different (but socially accepted) religion and the difficulties the narrator had within the confines of such.I have not read Winterson before.
I think I might have enjoyed it even more had I any interest in the religious side of it - it was not preachy in any way, but poor little Jeanette has interactions with a wide variety of religious sorts, all of them quick to point their fingers at Jeanette the moment she does something they view threatening to their beliefs.This is not an uncommon story, and it's one that is the focus of many other coming-of-age novels.
I've been meaning to read this book for years.
I loved her writing style, and I found her narrator very engaging.
The relationships that were supposed to be profound were lost in a writing style that felt less like quirky prose and more like the ramblings of a crazy person.
The main story was interspersed with boring fairy tales that I ended up skipping past, after they began to feel repetitive in their aren't-I-clever nature.
Maybe I'll revisit this book in a few years, because I know so many people who love it!
Belki uzun zamandır okumadığım içindir bilemiyorum ama 192 sayfayı okumam neredeyse 6 saatimi aldı.
Gerçekten güzel bir kitaptı her ne kadar ilk yarısını pek sevmesemde.
Jeanette adlı bir kızımız var ve kendisi evlatlık.
Yani Jeanette yoğun bir din ortamında büyüyor ve hayatı böyle şekilleniyor.
Her ne kadar dinini ve kilisesini çok sevse de ergenliğe girince içindeki bir şeyle ona dayatılan inançların çeliştiğini fark ediyor.
İnandığı dine göre eşcinsellik çok büyük bir günah fakat Jeanette sadece hemcinslerinden hoşlanıyor.
Aralara serpiştirilmiş kısa hikayeler de kitaba çok başka bir hava katıyor.
Benim favorilerime girmedi fakat çok sevdiklerimden biri oldu diyebilirim.
