https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1007499.Oreo
Reissued in 2015 from New Directions, this early-seventies punnilinguistic mistresspiece deserves a broader readership. An anarchic comedic romp, abounding in ambidextrous wordplay, mixing black and Jewish slang with technical and mathematical language, this novel is a brassy performance, sadomasochistically whip-smart, ferociously intelligent, and unafraid to wipe the smug complicity off your face with a crude or revolting image. Epic in scope (structured around the odyssey of Theseus), Oreo is the only novel from a fearless humorist on a par with Ishmael Reed or Mel Brooks. Discover Fran this Friday.
Pros: 1.
Half-black, half-Jewish female protagonist who's brilliant, tough, and empowered.
2. Vocabulary-expanding; full of language games and puns.
3. Lots of insane, almost magical realist stuff happens, but since the plot is anchored by parallels to the story of Theseus and the Minotaur it never spins out of control.4.
Fran Ross's only novel.
Fran Ross wrote for Richard Pryor, which should tell you that at least one joke in this book will make you uncomfortable.
I can't tell you which joke it will be because that's based on individual experiences and political persuasions, but you will be offended at some point.
Fran Ross' Oreo is an incredible novel that lays the common overlooked magic of racial and cultural mixings, assimilation and multiple identity bare.
The fact that Ross was a writer for Richard Pryor is abundantly in evidence, though it would be decades before such Black women comedians would light up the stage and our consciousness.
Thanks to the appreciation, diligence and scholarship of Mullen, and Northeastern University's commitment to recovering obscured works of art by Black women writers, Oreo is available to readers.
I loved it when I first read it June 2015, loved it more this time. I laughed so loudly as I read it that my family kept thinking I'd broken my toe or something. Not just a great book. It's one of a kind.
Her only novel, OREO, came out in 1974 and was forgotten almost immediately.
She was saving up to write another novel and we’re all the poorer that she didn’t succeed in that venture, because OREO is a masterpiece.
I think I’m a little bit in love with Oreo and probably with Ross, too, whose striking author’s portrait I kept turning to, reprinted in the front pages of the New Directions reissue.
Thankfully, I know some super funny smart and talented women (subtle shoutout to my beautiful wife) who can carry Ross’ torch so that it never extinguishes.
This is one of the smartest, funniest, most original books I've ever read. Wildly inventive; it reminded me more of Kurt Vonnegut than any other contemporary African American woman's writing.
Bailed a fifth of the way in. It’s good for me to try a satirical novel every once in a while to reconfirm that I absolutely loathe satire.
I think I may have been handicapped a bit by the fact that I wasn't really familiar with the legends of Theseus on which this book is based.
Because of this, interactions and scenes that may have been exact analogues ended up seeming a bit spatchcocked, and the book caromed around Philadelphia and New York with an almost dreamlike cadence--transitions were largely elided, characters would enter and interact with undue familiarity, and the drama vacillated between the mundane and the bizarre.
Overall a cute, humorous book with some grade-A wordplay and Yiddish, but lacking in certain key narrative areas.
This book was too smart for me.
I was left feeling pretty "lowly" for not "getting it".
I enjoyed the parts that clicked but most of the book was chock full of fanciful language that I didn't have the time to bother looking up each sentence (just to feel included in the joke).
I completely understand why others love this book, because when it clicked...
it was definitely great.
I just wish I had more knowledge of the slang or knew going into this book how much work it would take to fully "get it".
A baffling, extremely literate, often really funny novel from the mid-70s, a kinda slapstick, satirical narrative which plays around with Yiddish, black slang and with the written word itself.
So apparently it's based on the myth of Theseus (which I'm not up on), but in this case about an African American girl going in search of her white Jewish father..the character of Oreo is super great by the way.
I think this is an important social document with tons of spunk and wit, having said that I also thought it was a bit silly and I was done by the end.
Oreo es probablemente el personaje más badass que he leído nunca.
the supporting characters were quite interesting and entertaining, and added entertaining layers to the story.there is so much love of language going on in this book, and each character embraces or displays a different style of communication -- a mute who uses handwritten thought bubbles, formal english, a style of black southern patois, invented language, sing-song dialogue, slang and street talk...
the black town dealing with whites moving in!), and i liked the brain gymnastics going on in my head as i read this story, and thought of the myth of theseus.
(I wish I could include similarly clever turns of phrases in my review, but their clunkiness would do a disservice to the brilliance of Ross' wordplay) Pardon one more ebullient paragraph: I have to mention how this book could very nearly pass for being written today, as it contains such a progressive stance on the lives of the characters and the world they inhabit.
The fact that this book was so ignored for so long is terrible, and it seems almost entirely because Fran Ross was an African-American woman.
Another lady-book to convince the fanboys of Helen Dewitt's The Last Samurai (and, by extension, Ulysses) that women not only make great authors, too, but can spin contemporary-minded mythic gold out of ancient misogynist straw as well as any Joyce.Witty, erudite, playful, fun, and whip-smart, Oreo (the book and the character) was an absolute joy to spend time with.
Any reasonably intelligent person has to admire projects like Dewitt's and Joyce's, but enjoying them is a whole other thing -- for me at least, the constantly allusively hiccuping text and the ever-present, inscrutable need to intellectually preen on every page gets to be a bit of a grind after a while.
But the one thing this book of humor seems to lack is funniness.Okay, admittedly, I didn't actually read much of it, and it did have one funny joke about a black guy who went to a Jewish deli every day to buy a pickle, sour, but the Jew was so stingy he only ever gave the guy a half-sour, and therefore the black guy became a lifelong anti-Semite.
So, there you have it folks, all the belly-laughs you can get, crammed into a single sentence.I'll potentially actually read another chapter or two someday.
behind a paywall but pinckney lists other co-contemporary african american novels, arguing: "It took a while for the militancy that had overtaken much work by black poets and black playwrights in the 1960s to find expression in fiction, because it was difficult for black writers to free themselves from the narrative traditions of double-consciousness.
The more fluent in standard English, or other European languages, the more immersed in established literary culture, the more likely one might be accused of forsaking one’s own traditions, or abandoning the black community — by writing works it could not comprehend, or enjoy, or draw upon for inspiration in the coming revolution that radical activists envisioned.Fran Ross’s novel, Oreo, was published in 1974, when the Black Arts movement had reached the height of its influence.
Harryette Mullen writes about this aspect of the book a lot more in her Afterword which says a lot more intelligent and insightful things in a far more eloquent way than I ever could.The plot is based on the story of Theseus who and if you don’t know it as I didn’t, I would advise reading the short crib notes at the book which I ended up referring to every now and again to really get the most out of the story.
Ross, who wrote for Richard Pryor, here tells the story of a girl born to Jewish and black parents who travels from Philadelphia to New York City in search of her father.After reading about half of this book, I gave up (at least for now), although I sort of kind of hope to one day finish.
Do they make the reading more enjoyable?
I mean I already said I didn't finish the book but I'm inclined to think the answer is no.
It turns out that the google translate app doesn't do Yiddish in English alphabet, so I was stuck looking up the words in an online dictionary and was dismayed to find that time and again I had failed to guess the correct meaning from context.
I found this was mitigated as I got further into the novel in that there's both fewer Yiddish phrases and that some of them were repeated so that I didn't have to look them up again.
I can see why Ross's novel didn't find a niche when it was originally published, but it's too bad.
However, the true joy of this book is just how amazingly funny it is.
Short of Joyce, I don't think I've ever read such wonderful puns, wordplay, and shaggy dog stories.
The book is a loose adaptation of the story of Theseus, scrambled all to hell with post-modern pastiche and assemblage, African-American and Jewish signifiers, and superfly superhero antics by the eponymous heroine.
It's heartbreaking to think that Ross died young without ever receiving the recognition that is clearly her due from creating one of the most amazing comedic novels of the 20th century.
You have no excuse not to read it now.
This is a retelling of the Theseus myth, where Theseus is a half-Jewish, half-black girl from Philadelphia. It's set in the 1970s, and follows the titular character's quest to find her Jewish father. She saves puppies, liberates women, and kicks up lots of trouble on her way.This isn't a "normal" novel--there are menus, quizzes, quotes, and other ephemera inserted throughout, and they all add to the book's hilariousness.
In a single chapter, Oreo can shift between Yiddish, "Ebonics," made-up Japanese, prose English, and gibberish. This is a book that's arguably about language and identity—how we use words to express ourselves and construct who we are. Never read anything like this one.
I admire this book, but the endless word games were a bit much for me. I tend to find that this type of verbal fireworks distances me emotionally from characters, and that happened here.Still, a fascinating and unique book, and I loved the glimpse of the bad old 70's New York of my childhood.
This is just a delight of magically-tailored, unclassifiable, unreviewable gobbledygook.
I was thrilled to learn that this book, which was on my "wish I could read it" list for years was finally back in print and available again.
How delicious it was to be one of the first ten people in line to get it from the county library system and to be able to bring it home and read it the first weekend!
If you're looking for a serious Bildungsroman about an archetypal African American adolescent coming to terms with the reality of racism in modern society, this ain't it, Baby.
well, this is where the term "tall tale" fits perfectly.
Paul Beatty's praise is on the cover of my edition of Oreo.
I can well imagine him having read it before creating The Sellout, as these iconoclastic works share a love of playful language and a way of getting the reader to think about "the Black Experience" from a totally fresh perspective.
In one scene a teacher corrects Oreo during an adjective/adverb drill when she writes the sentence, "He felt badly." "Oreo looked him dead in the eye and said, 'I am writing a story about a repentant but recidivous rapist.
In many ways, this felt like a college lit assignment—not necessarily a bad thing, as college is a terrific place to explore different kinds of works, find literary favorites and fall in love with great books and authors.
But despite laughing outright in places (and cringing in others), and despite my recognition that this is an important work, reading it felt like a bit of a slog at times.
When it was over, I was both glad to be done (and ready to move onto something that required a little less work to understand) and glad that I’d read it.
this has to be hands-down one of the weirdest books i ever read.
the back cover reads like you are going on this journey with oreo to find her father.
before then, the novel is chock full of random family history with too many characters to keep track of and then strange pieces like a journal from her mom of various places she lived.
if someone picked up and revised this so it read like a female superhero encounter, that might work better.
i love the witty repartee - but there are some really strange journeys you go through to get there.
Really loved this book.
I loved the play with knowledge and with language, I loved the sense that the text had a bit of a life of its own and generally, I thought this was terrific.
Lots of references to pop culture/all culture, so I'm sure there were many things I missed but that is the joy of this book - sort of like a mini Finnegans Wake in that there are so many levels in which to read it that you would have to be a scholar in at least a hundred subjects (including the traditionally non-academic) to be a master of this text.
Only Oreo is master, and that is the beauty of it.

