https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1268536.Sesher_Kobita_The_Last_Poem
Tagore’s ‘The Last Poem’ is a real treat to read.
It’s a love story between Amit and Lavanya.
‘The last Poem’ is a very modern story.
The way he (kobiguru) described the emotions, feelings and love in the story is absolutely incredible.
Sometime I do wonder how someone can sketch the protagonists so closely to life without being part of them.
But then I also realize that is what ‘Kobi-guru RN Tagore’ is all about.
His realization for the world and universe is beyond our imagination.
The story ends but it’s really not, still feel the characters running around back of mind.
আমি মুগধ! বিমোহিত! "শেষের কবিতা" সব দিক দিয়ে অসাধারণ সৃষটি বাংলা সাহিতযের! লাবণযর পরেমে পরে গেছি! নাকি নিজের ভিতর লাবণযর ছায়া দেখতে পেয়েছি?!সে যাই হোক! জয় হোক কবি গুরুর! :D
আমি মুগ্ধ! বিমোহিত! "শেষের কবিতা" সব দিক দিয়ে অসাধারণ সৃষ্টি বাংলা সাহিত্যের! লাবণ্যর প্রেমে পরে গেছি! নাকি নিজের ভিতর লাবণ্যর ছায়া দেখতে পেয়েছি?!সে যাই হোক! জয় হোক কবি গুরুর! :D
When first time I read Shesher Kobita probably 15 to 16 years back, it seemed to me that it was nothing more but an average rated book. However, I didn't know why I felt interested to read it again. Then I started again to read and I read it 4 times at a stretch. The more I read the book, the more I felt that there was something more in the depth. Still, today whenever I get a chance I open the book at any page and read and get the same feeling again and again.
This has remained one of my favourite novels written by any Indian author ever since I read it during my school days.
Themes of love, trust, passion, lust, self-deprecation, epiphany and most importantly, the realization of what companionship truly means, run amok in this book.
As the book draws to an end, one reflects on all these and finally understands the true meaning of The Last Poem.
Written at a ripe old age of 67, Kobiguru aka Teacher of all poets as he was affectionately called, shows a masterly command of the trysts of human relationships, which only he could express so elegantly.My Rating - 5/5
It is a very rare feeling which occurs to any reader after reading a book and Tagore's "The Last Poem" is one such gem.
Tagore has brilliantly weaved poetry with prose and made every page of the book beautiful.
Amit and Lavanya complimented each other beautifully in the book as their camaraderie and moments helped each other to overcome the weaknesses they had.The two souls met each other in Shillong, fell in love, helped each other rediscover their inner self and then parted with a smile to settle down with different individuals.
My love for Lavanya is like a lake, which can't be brought home in a vessel.
কালের যাতরার ধবনি শুনিতে কি পাও?তারি রথ নিতয উধাও।জাগিছে অনতরীকষে হৃদয়সপনদনচকরে পিষট আধারের বকষ-ফাটা তারার করনদন। ওগো বনধু,সেই ধাবমান কালজড়ায়ে ধরিল মোরে ফেলি তার জালতুলে নিল দরুতরথেদু'সাহসী ভরমনের পথেতোমা হতে বহু দূরে।মনে হয় অজসর মৃতযুরে পার হয়ে আসিলামআজি নব পরভাতের শিখর চুড়ায়;রথের চঞচল বেগ হাওয়ায় উড়ায়আমার পুরানো নাম। ফিরিবার পথ নাহি;দূর হতে যদি দেখ চাহিপারিবে না চিনিতে আমায়। হে বনধু বিদায়।কোনদিন করমহীন পূরণো অবকাশেবসনতবাতাসেঅতীতের তীর হতে যে রাতরে বহিবে দীরঘশবাস,ঝরা বকুলের কাননা বযাথিবে আকাশ,সে
কালের যাত্রার ধ্বনি শুনিতে কি পাও?তারি রথ নিত্য উধাও।জাগিছে অন্তরীক্ষে হৃদয়স্পন্দনচক্রে পিষ্ট আধারের
"কালের যাতরার ধবনি শুনিতে কি পাও? তারি রথ নিতযই উধাও জাগাইছে অনতরীকষে হৃদয়সপনদনচকরে পিষট আঁধারের বকষ-ফাটা তারার করনদন।"কিছু বই আছে যা খপ করে গিলে ফেলতে হয় না, ধীরে সুসথে আয়েশ করে বসে খোসা ছাড়িয়ে একটু একটু করে তারিয়ে তারিয়ে খেতে হয়। এই বইটা ঠিক সেই ধরণটার পরকৃষট উদাহরণ।ছয়মাস আগে পিডিএফ ফরমযাটে বইটা যখন পরথমবার পড়েছিলাম তখন হাতে হারডকপি না থাকায় বইটা ছিঁড়ে ফেলতে পারি নি! তবে পরচনড মেজাজ খারাপ যে হয়েছিলো সে কথা বলাই বাহুলয। নযাকামি আর লুলামিতে পরিপূরণ একটা বইয়ের উদাহরণ দিতে গেলে এটার নাম একেবারে পর
তবে প্রচন্ড মেজাজ খারাপ যে হয়েছিলো সে কথা বলাই বাহুল্য। ন্যাকামি আর লুলামিতে পরিপূর্ণ একটা বইয়ের উদাহরণ দিতে গেলে এটার নাম একেবারে প্রথম সারিতে থাকতো। তবে অনেকেরই ভালো লাগা বইটা (গুডরিডস রেটিং দ্রষ্টব্য) ব্যক্তিগতভাবে জঘণ্য লাগার কারণটা বুঝার জন্য হলেও আরেকবার পড়ে দেখার ইচ্ছা ছিলো!
একই সাথে একটা বই দিয়ে এরকম বৈপরীত্যের জাদু দেখানো বোধহয় শুধু রবীন্দ্রনাথের পক্ষেই সম্ভব!বইয়ের মূল চরিত্র মাত্র দুইটি, লাবণ্য আর অমিত। এই দুইজনকে নিয়েই পুরো উপন্যাসের কাহিনী আবর্তিত হলেও সাথে আরও কিছু ছোটখাটো পার্শ্বচরিত্র আছে। মূল পার্শ্বচরিত্র যদিও বইয়ের গোড়ার দিক থেকেই আছে, কিন্তু একেবারে শেষ পর্যায়ে না গেলে বোঝা যায় না। তাই তার নামটা বলে মজা আগে থেকে নষ্ট করলাম না। কিছু কথা থাক না গুপন!
Wish I could comprehend the poetry parts in Bengali, as translations strip them off their magical wordplay.Some noteworthy quotes....On culture and education: "The crude stone from whence the glittering diamond is cut is education.
The luminous light that sparkles forth is culture.
The stone lends weight, the light gives illumination."Against feminism:"The party with the shackles fetter the bird in chains.
The ones without manacles, bind through opium, in other words through deceit and delusion.
The female case is filled with opium, nature being the evil supplier." On punctuality:"It befits the ones who have loads of time on their hands to be punctual.
Okay, I finally read Shesher Kobita.
It took me a long time to pick up the book for I was daunted by the difficulty of the language.
And that's exactly why it took me over a month to complete reading this fantastic book.
One complain I have is that the similes and metaphors used sometimes felt forced or unnecessary.
Of course it enriched the reader experience for me, leaving me gawking at the pages speechlessly, but at times it seemed that the usage of similes and metaphors was excess in quantity.
All that being said, I loved reading Shesher Kobita.
শেষের কবিতা পড়ার পরতি আমার একটা অনীহা ছিল। সকুলে পড়ার সময় সযার একবার কারণ জানতে চাইলেন। কলাস নাইন পড়ুয়া আমি খুবই বিতৃষণা নিয়ে বললাম, 'কনসেপটটাই তো কেমন! পযাঁচের কারণটাই তো বুঝি নাহ!" সযার হেসে উততর দিয়েছিলেন, "ভালোবাসার কনসেপটটাই তো অদভূত। অনেকভাবে বযাখযা করা যায়, শেষের কবিতায় একদম ভিননভাবে বযাখযা করা। বড় হলেই বুঝবা।"একটু আগে শেষের কবিতা পড়া শেষ করলাম। কী বুঝলাম?  “তবমসি মম জীবনং, তবমসি মম ভূষণং,         তবমসি মম ভবজলধিরতনম।”এই তো, এতোটুকুই।
শেষের কবিতা পড়ার প্রতি আমার একটা অনীহা ছিল। স্কুলে পড়ার সময় স্যার একবার কারণ জানতে চাইলেন। ক্লাস নাইন পড়ুয়া আমি খুবই বিতৃষ্ণা নিয়ে বললাম, 'কনসেপ্টটাই তো কেমন! প্যাঁচের কারণটাই তো বুঝি নাহ!" স্যার হেসে উত্তর দিয়েছিলেন, "ভালোবাসার কনসেপ্টটাই তো অদ্ভূত। অনেকভাবে ব্যাখ্যা করা যায়, শেষের কবিতায় একদম ভিন্নভাবে ব্যাখ্যা করা। বড় হলেই বুঝবা।"একটু আগে শেষের কবিতা পড়া শেষ করলাম। কী বুঝলাম?  “ত্বমসি মম জীবনং, ত্বমসি মম ভূষণং,         	ত্বমসি মম ভবজলধিরত্নম্‌।”এই তো, এতোটুকুই।
গভীরতাহীন বেহুদা তরল পাকনামি- পরতযেকটা চরিতর একই দোষে আকরানত !
গভীরতাহীন বেহুদা তরল পাকনামি- প্রত্যেকটা চরিত্র একই দোষে আক্রান্ত !
'Shesher Kobita' translated as the 'The last poem' is an unique amalgamation of poetry with prose.
The exchanges between Amit and Lavanya, through poetry, is magical, though I am sure to have missed out on what was lost in translation.
At times like this, I feel truly sorry for being unable to read Bengali.
Rabi Thakur, even in his various English translations, holds a unique voice like no other.
Having delved into the depth of his language, any author I have read immediately after him seems too light, too frivolous.
A must read where I have turned pages wanting to revisit his language, find hidden meaning in his deep prose.
Reading this book for the second time reminds me of revisiting "Srikanto" of Sharat Babu at different ages.
This phlegmatic book will indulge you to judge their decision and how their characters evolves over time to be settled with their choice, their believes to be suited.
An epic depiction of Mr. Tagore's excavation of our secret side of minds that eventually transpires its delusions to duality.
After reading this book, just like old times you will ask the same question - how did this guy, Mr.Tagore, feel all of us back in 19th century?Probably, he is a time-traveller, a mind reader !
Sadly, even with an updated translation, the poetry --so essential to the novel's plot--remains stilted and awkward in English. The premise of the book, and it's relation to Tagore's own literary status in Bengal at the time, make this a treasure of world literature and definitely marks him as an experimentalist and high modernist of the first order.
A beautiful lyrical narrative from Tagore ,the eminent writer...the characters Amit and Labanya remains eternally etched in our hearts... A must read , a book to be read and re-read ... to be forever treasured!
A poetic, thought-provoking and way-ahead-of-its-time story! The story set in Shillong painted a pretty picture, promising self-discovery, healing and the warmth of love. It's difficult to root for the central characters though, one of whom seems convinced that she cannot have a conventional happy ending, and the other doesn't seem convinced about anything. (view spoiler)[The central characters couldn't even see through their promising fantasy of forever till the end. (hide spoiler)] Some would say it is an epic love story. I might have completely missed the point, but this novel was excellent writing about exasperating characters.
Book: The Last PoemAuthor: Rabindranath Tagore translated by Dilip BasuRating: 3/5 ⭐⭐⭐Poetry is 'life's commentary in verse'.This book stands testimonial to these words. Life and love are best explained in poetry. Mathew Arnold has called poetry the "criticism of life". I feel poetry is appreciation of life, even sadness, ugly and tragedies in poetry become beautiful. Rabindranath Tagore is known for his various feats as an artist and philosopher - but it was poetry that reflected in all his fie
Book: The Last PoemAuthor: Rabindranath Tagore translated by Dilip BasuRating: 3/5 ⭐️⭐️⭐️Poetry is 'life's commentary in verse'.This book stands testimonial to these words.
Life and love are best explained in poetry.
The book also touches upon Tagore's political ideology where he presents his opinions on those times Democracy, Home Rule and British Raj through brilliant analogies.
Quoting from the book - "Love that freely floats in the sky is our soul; love that informs our daily life illumines our homes.
They are not about stories or characters or plot - they are about words, stringed together like poetry.
Who would have thought that Amit too had something in his past that would almost rescue him from being completely lost in lovelessness in the end.All the importance that our author gave to the power of words, it was the feelings which were long suppressed and ever unexpressed that decided the end for their story.
So the love in theory, and the love in reality - these are two different concepts; both might be equally needed and even achieved in an ideal case - maybe Labanya and Amit's case would have turned out to be an ideal one.
পরথমবার পড়তে গিয়ে দাঁতে দাঁত লেগে গিয়েছিল, দবিতীয় বার বেশ উপভোগ করে পড়লাম। আহ পরেম, অসাধারণ।
প্রথমবার পড়তে গিয়ে দাঁতে দাঁত লেগে গিয়েছিল, দ্বিতীয় বার বেশ উপভোগ করে পড়লাম। আহ প্রেম, অসাধারণ।
The book is about a platonic love of a matured couple.
The protagonist Amit, a confident, self-occupied, unyielding being who loves to attack people around him by his witty talks, but doesn't consider them capable of getting him, finally finds his worth a million listener, a girl named Labanya.
The Shillong hill becomes their dream place where they talk about philosophy, future but mostly about poems.
The book turns into an extraordinary novella when the same final logics of Amit are also applied to Labanya at the very end which was pretty rare at that period.
I was fifteen. Love was around the corner. In fact, everywhere around me. Just then, I discovered that love exists within me and the object of love is nearly immaterial for the intensity of feelings. Nibaran is Amit but Amit can't be Nibaran. One is about understanding life and the other about experiencing it. Lavanya and Ketaki are but two forms of devotion. One that possesses and the other that reveres. And I remain to this day torn between love that inspires life and life that makes it seem worthless.
This book was picked up because of its name – ‘shesher kobita’. I’m a huge of Rabindranath Tagore. This book portrays a great amalgamation of prose and poetry. The love that blossoms between Amit and Lavanya amidst the hills of Shillong and exchange of poetry between them is exceptional. With this, I’ve another book of Thakur Da added to my shelf.
one of the best books i have ever read...ofcourse i have read it twice at a same time becoz i have read its every line twice... my eyes went to the first eord of every line n automaticaly my eyes read the lines twice . Gurudev has written the large dimension of love in ink which a few people can get experienced...but those few people never can write down it in words..
'It has repeatedly occurred to me, when I've read about love in literature, that love becomes a tragedy when human beings, even while recognizing each other's need for independence, have refused to be content with this realisation. They have tried to remould, recreate each other in the way they desire, they have forcibly wanted to graft their own desires to someone else.'
বাংলা সাহিতযের অনযতম কালজয়ী উপনযাস এটি । অমিত ও লাবণয চরিতর দুটি অতযনত তাৎপরযপূরণ । এদের বিচছেদের মাধযমে হৃদয়ে এক ধরনের শূণযতার হাহাকারের সৃষটি হয় ।Readers would like to read this kind of book again and again.
বাংলা সাহিত্যের অন্যতম কালজয়ী উপন্যাস এটি । অমিত ও লাবণ্য চরিত্র দুটি অত্যন্ত তাৎপর্যপূর্ণ । এদের বিচ্ছেদের মাধ্যমে হৃদয়ে এক ধরনের শূণ্যতার হাহাকারের সৃষ্টি হয় ।Readers would like to read this kind of book again and again.
Probably the best romantic novel I have ever read ... the way Tagore defined the depth of love through the sweet love story of Amit & Labonno is Incredible .. there are so many lines that touched my heart .. really a nice Novel by R.Tagore
Rabindranath was 63 years old when he wrote this beautiful novel,it brings a new philosophy of Love when the novel described the pletonic love between Amit & Labonya
Philosophy of love
I probably would have enjoyed this work a lot more if I had a better grasp of the Bangla language. I think I might read it again sometime in the future.
Rather audacious and far ahead of its time.
