https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11125.Digital_Fortress
الياباني في هذه الحالةحسنا، سبويلر ألرت ; الرواية فعلا تنتهي بهذا الشكلسيتم أيقاف القنبلة أيا كانت قبل 3 ثوانيولكن نجح فعلا دان براون في تقديم نهاية مرضية جدا بالنسبة لي كمصري, عربي أو كأي أجنبي غير امريكي بنظرية مهمة...من يراقب المراقب؟It's hard to believe that it's the author's debut novel.It may seem so 'cliché' by the beginning, a typical Hollywood movie where you know they are gonna stop the bomb 3 seconds before it BoooM , and the good Americans wins, the bad whoever foreigner loses..Well, it actually ends that way..
Anyway, I was bored and a copy of this was sitting at the library for a quarter and I thought "WTF, mate, I'll give it a go."The first page of chapter 1 starts with Susan Fletcher waking from a romantic dream to the ringing of the telephone:"Susan, it's David.
A handful of pages later, it becomes clear that Dan Brown has read too many Clive Cussler novels as we're treated to a description of David Becker:"Becker was dark--a rugged, youthful thirty-five with sharp green eyes and a wit to match.
Then, still dripping, he'd treat his opponent to a fruit shake and a bagel."Is it just me or does this read like Dan Brown was typing this with one hand?
Español - EnglishEste es el primer libro escrito por Dan Brown y, aunque es bueno, no tiene el mismo enganche que los siguientes.
Tampoco esta Robert Landon.La NSA ha interceptado un código pero no lo pueden decifrar.
La única pista esta oculta en el cadáver de Ensei Takado, fallecido en España.----This is the first book written by Dan Brown and, although it is good, it does not have the same hook as the following ones.Nor is Robert Landon.The NSA has intercepted a code but can not decipher it.
The only clue is hidden in the body of Ensei Takado, who died in Spain.
NSA hires a pretty detective (not yet Robert Langdon since this is Dan Brown’s first novel) and she is so hot most of the male characters in this book lust for her.
Or maybe I am reading too many suspense-thriller books (Robert Ludlum, Jeffrey Archer, Ken Follett, John Grisham, etc) that my rational thinking is now tainted with all these far-fetched possibilities or thoughts.Dan Brown was born on the same year I was, i.e., 1964.
I like Dan Brown definitely not for his literary prowess, i.e., his writing is ordinary, but for his imagination and the efforts that he put in his research.
It is relevant to modern times & some reviewers have gone as far as calling it plausible.But it must be said that its an adventure less compelling than The Da Vinci Code, even more contrived; devoid of interesting characters but plagued with dead ends, ineffective repetitiveness, empty journeys.
The plot, if dissected, would resemble this: a career girl (& therefore, one lacking of a personality, other than being described as being incredibly fond of expensive shoes [as if such an example would underscore her femininity:]) stuck in a compound, perplexed by computer screens and consoles, hurrying to save humanity before the doomsday clock strikes; her boyfriend, a prof.
Spine wrecking thriller. Never could I put my popcorn down.A complete and comprehensive review on my lists this year!
Dan Brown is not just Da Vinci Code! This is a pretty good cyber-thriller. It resonates well in a world where data security and hacking are a part of the daily news. Check it out if you are a fan of fast paced thrillers with lots of suspense. (It has short chapters, too, which I like a lot)
هل أنت مبرمج ؟ إذاً ، لا تفوت قراءة هذه الرواية :)عامة الناس سوف يستمتعون بقراءتها ، وأنتَ وحدك من سوف يفهم ما وراء سطورها وشيفراتها ، سوف تشعر بأنها تعنيك أنتَ وحدكـ .أذهلتني هذه الرواية ، عشتُها لحظةً بلحظة ، حرفاً بحرف ، كنتُ أستيقظ باكرًا لأبدأ قراءتها حتَّى تتعب عيناي ، مختلفةً هذه الحكاية عن كل ما قرأتُه وسوف أقرأه !.سؤالين يتبادران إلى ذهني الآن ، أولهما / ما هو تخصص دان براون ؟ التاريخ ؟ علم الأديان ؟ أم البرمجة :)السؤال الآخر / لماذا النساء في روايات بروان مثالياتٌ إلى حدٍّ غبي ؟
Dan Brown wants to get to the important things like telling the reader how intelligent and beautiful Susan Fletcher and David Becker are.
Luckily Dan Brown quickly tells information to make me pay attention to a specific character in his book Digital Fortress and I, the reader, can get back to the important part which is remembering that Susan Fletcher and David Becker are engaged and they are both very intelligent and very beautiful.The crazy ending was kind of fun because everyone was in the same place sort of screaming and trying to solve the problem before the entire government was shut down, but other than that… What the fuck, America?
I also am upset at my friend for recommending me this book.In short, the book is a bad novel, and a very bad novel if you know anything about math / cryptography.Not only the technical errors were appalling, but the writing style itself is mediocre.WARNING: spoiler here.There is a scene where the heads of NSA along with some of the smartest people on Earth were trying to solve a riddle left by the bad guy as a clue.
either Dan Brown's IQ is below average, or it doesn't take that much to become the head of NSA.
A Good Thriller, if you ignore a few things.
Now before this I've only read 3 of his books (OK that may be quite a lot already) and my recent awareness of such similarity has indeed taken out most surprises within Brown's novels.No spoiler here, though I'm sure most of us can tell what it is by now.
But I'm sure that if Dan Brown were to write about something I was excellent at and passionate about - watching TV, Facebooking, sleeping - he'd be getting a thrashing from me as well.
No matter what people want to say about Dan Brown or his books or hatred towards him you got to admire the fact that what he brings to the table no one else does.This was the book which brought me to the beautiful world of books.
After reading this book everything changed, I started to read more and more fiction and today books have become one of the most important parts of my life all thanks to this books.Today I have read all of Dan Brown books apart from Angels & Demons but this book remains to be my favorite.
اول مرة الرواية اتنشرت كانت 1998فلعادي ايه المشكلةلا ابدا مفيش مشاكلالمشكلة البسيطةانه بيتكلم ف تقني
I don't even remember what this one is about. There's a CIA computer technician, and all I can remember about her is the scene where a security guard is ogling her sweet, sweet ass and wondering in bafflement how a woman with a 192 IQ could be so damn fuckable. Also, I'm pretty sure she saves the world with computers, but we're not supposed to care because she does it while her shirt is partially unbuttoned. She may have gotten wet at some point, too. LITERATURE.
I’m so glad I thought otherwise!From reading other reviews, Dan Brown has been described as “a master of smart thrills” and I must say I agree.
I can’t really say anything on this as I know practically nothing about cryptography and coding but I will say the author managed to make it all sound very real and correct.Another thing I liked was the development of the characters.
I just would have liked the characters to have more feelings and emotions about them but that’s just me.So, this was my first Dan Brown book and I’ll tell you this, it will not be my last!
رسميا ..
أصبح دان براون هو الروائى المفضل لىرواية فيها رومانسية .
خطر .
إثارة .
و مغامرة رائعة كعادتهو الأشخاص بتتكشف بطرق فظيعة ..
و فعلا من أروع ما قرأتأنا أحترم هذا الرجل !!Officially Dan brown is my favorite author now!the novel has got it all, danger, romance, excitement, and a great adventure as alwaysthe revealing of each character's role & plot is amazing and the tension gets biggerwith every page.it's an adventure inside on of the most secure places for national safety in the USAand it's being hacked!magnificent and you can't expect any thine less from this man.
Infatti, a mio modesto avviso, Dan Brown è uno scrittore umoristico travestito da autore di thriller.A dire il vero, di risate me ne sono fatta ben più di due, perché i protagonisti hanno un “culo” che neanche i miracolati di Lourdes possono vantare.
Nei romanzi di Dan Brown, infatti, il “caso” è sempre e rigorosamente dalla parte dei buoni e non gliene frega una cippa lippa di apparire esageratamente tendenzioso.
Per una qualche oscura ragione, il “caso” di Dan Brown aspira a un riconoscimento ufficiale della sua costante quanto inutile bravura.
Reading Dan Brown books is a bit like watching porn.
The cast never evolves beyond cardboard cut-out level, but the plot does pick up through various levels of incredulity and intrigue to a climax that ends up shallow and disappointing, leaving the reader feeling cheap and cheated.I understand why Brown is popular - the cookie-cutter formula, the "intelligent" yet criminally dim hero, the assasin and the "good guy turned mortal enemy" recipe is appealing to the masses - but can't help feeling that these books should be kept hidden on the top shelf, away from prying eyes and impressionable minds.
I read The DaVinici Code because everyone was reading it and because I liked Angels and Demons.
That’s when I realized that Dan Brown came up with one good plot and he’s just recycling it over and over again.Even so, faced with the prospect of Rich Dad, Poor Dad or He’s Just Not In To You, I picked up Digital Fortress.
I do think his writing is getting better, but I had the ending of the book figured out within the first ten pages.
I didn’t even have to read the ending first to know what was going to happen.
This is what Susan Fletcher and David Becker have to prevent in Digital Fortress by Dan Brown.
With a lot of action and suspense Digital Fortress is a book for anyone who likes action.Dan Brown wrote many other action novels.
Leaving in the suspense in all his books, Dan Brown makes all his novels an exiting read.The United States government has just bought a huge computer that can unscramble any code called TRANSLTR.
Exposing the data bank, will put the nation at risk of attack and total chaos of the citizens.The NSA sends in David Becker to receive the ring that has the code to shut down Digital Fortress.
Here’s the problem: Digital Fortress has a good plot, but it’s filled with weak characters.
A disgruntled NSA employee develops an unbreakable encryption program (the Digital Fortress) and threatens to give both the encryption program and the key (which is buried in the program) away on the Internet.
This throws the NSA into a panic – as it should – so they send David Becker to track down the former employee.
Susan Fletcher and David Becker are the perfect pair.
She’s beautiful, intelligent, sexy and decent to the core.
He’s beautiful, intelligent, sexy and – yes – decent to the core.
ونلمح في الرواية لمحة من الإعتراف بفداحة ما فعله الأمريكان باليابان ولكنها تبقى لمحة صغيرة لا تخلو من الغرور وكأن الإعتراف بالجرم بشكل عابر هو فرض كفايةوقد تحقق بالتلميح ولا يجب الوقوف عنده كثيراوطبعا لا يخلو الأمر من قصة حب مباركة وعرض زواج في وقت حرج وسعادة بالغة من المحيطين بعرض الزواج وإن كان ذلك في أكثر لحظات تخطف الأنفاس من فرط دقتهاوأخيرا فإنني قد تخيلت الرواية كفيلم أكشن بل وتخيلت أبطاله أيضا - الأبطال في خيالي لا يتضمنون توم كروز :)
But no matter on what genre Dan Brown writes, one thing you can be certain to find; and that is the use of codes and puzzles.
With his unique use of codes and puzzles he creates a wonderful mystery, where the reader is taken on a suspenseful journey.
I have always loved Dan's ability in keeping the reader on the edge and making him too run against the time to solve the puzzles and unveil the mystery.
In addition to mystery and suspense there was a sweet love story too, which I think was a bonus.
رواية مميزة بشكل استثنائي ومن أفضل الروايات البوليسية في العالمأسلوبها فريد جداً حيث ينتهي كل فصل بإثارة كبيرة يناقض ما تقرأه في أولهويجعلك مشدودا بقوة لمعرفة ما سيجري وإذا تذاكيت قليلاً وجربت أن تتوقع سير الأحداث بناء على قراءتك العميقة فلن تفلح لأن أسلوب الكاتب مثير جداً ويجعلك في حيرة لا تنتهي حتى آخر صفحة بل آخر سطر من رواية مثيرة ومشوقة لحد كبير
Dan Brown never fails his readers!
The storyline takes place mainly in two separate locations: the top two members of the encryption team trying to break the program and track down the pass-key from headquarters and in Spain where the search is on for any possible physical pass-key possessed by the recently deceased creator of the program.This is a pretty fast-paced novel with lots of action on both fronts.
As usual with a Dan Brown novel, things get a bit unbelievable at times, but that's part of what makes them fun.
He has created an interesting cast of characters and circumstances that really keep the storyline moving along at his usual break-neck pace.
I picked up this Dan Brown’s debut novel after enjoying he’s Robert Langdon series, it’s exactly what you’d expect with quick fast paced chapters and an intriguing mystery - this time digital codes and computers.It’s a fun thriller than keeps you interested, I did enjoy it but missed that Harvard professors presence.I’ll have to try he’s other standalone adventure - Deception Point.
I think this was possibly my least favorite book by Brown. It lacked a certain something. Maybe it's just because I'm not that savvy in the things he wrote about, but I choose to think otherwise. He should stick to what he does best, historical mystery.
نعم أكثر من ذلك ..
حسنا أغلقه الأن فى البداية لازم نعترف بشئ إن دان براون هو أفضل روائى انا قرأتله فى العصر الحديث بعد ما أنهيت رباعية لانجدون ملائكة و شياطين  و شيفرة دافنشى  و الرمز المفقود  و الجحيم  كنت متردد من إنى أقرا مجددا لدان و التردد كان أكبر خصوصا ان الحصن الرقمى هى عمله الأول و منشور فى التسعينات بس بمجرد ما تبدأ القراءة بتُأسر بأسلوبه و هتضطر تكمل الرواية بتدور حوالين عالم التشفير و الكومبيوتر و الإنترنت و لما تلاقى كاتب بيكتب عن الحاجات دى فى التسعينات يبقى انت اكيد قدام أسطورة الميزة اللى مش موجودة فى اى حد غير فى دان براون مهما هتتوقع و مهما هتتنبأ بأى حاجة دايما بتلاقى حاجة جديدة خالص و بيصدمك طول الرواية فعلا ده كاتب عظيم عظيم عظيم " WE ARE WATCHING YOU !
