https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133017.Hellblazer
The fact that so many of these reviews say something along the lines of "It's not as good as the movie!" or "Too much political commentary and the art is dated!" just goes to show that some people - comic book readers in particular - are interested solely in watching entertainment with eyes glazed over.
Most comics merely provide the former, so just let us have a few intelligent comics without complaining that they wouldn't make a good movie!Phew.
However, there are two insufferable issues here and there (notably When Johnny Comes Marching Home whose heavy-handed yet ultimately diluted writing was alienating, diminishing my enjoyment for the events in the issue; and Extreme Prejudice which had a serviceable plot progression but barely enough tasteful commentary that I expected could have been a worthy follow-up to the delightfully satirical Go For It).Still, this first volume of Hellblazer had given us a lead character whose mistakes, inclination to cowardice and often very callous decision-making became very detrimental not only to his person but also to the people who surround him or are in direct contact with him.
This first volume of Hellblazer set the tone for the decades of John Constantine stories to follow.
And it was a pretty good start.We have here a horror comic that ventures well into the realm of the weird.
We start off with an African hunger demon loose in America.
Then a really eerie story where an entire company of soldiers in the vietnam war goes MIA in 1968 only to reappear 20 years later.
Cap off the volume with the possible rebirth of Jesus and you have a pretty eerie collection of stories.The art may not be to everyone's tastes, but it first the series perfectly.
I’d read one of the trade paperbacks before and wasn’t fantastically impressed, but Original Sins by Jamie Delano (who was the first writer to work on this series) has won me over.
As written by Delano the notorious John Constantine, working-class sorcerer and bad boy, really is an intriguing character.
He’s bad-tempered, arrogant, somewhat selfish, very unscrupulous, quite bloody-minded, and generally hard to get on with.
Constantine also finds himself battling demon yuppie soul-brokers from Hell, and there’s also an interesting episode that combines William Gibson-style cyberspace computer hacking with magick.
Overall it’s highly entertaining and Constantine is a fascinating character.
The rating (given from memory so many years later) comes from the feeling that I had when I read these stories about Constantine - I loved these stories and the more I read, the more I loved them.The re-read stems from the fact that I'm watching the TV show Constantine.
I had forgotten that Zed was a character and I didn't realize the episodes were taking ideas from these original stories.Reading them now, it feels a bit dated at times.
I always love it when Swamp Thing comes into the picture so I was happy to see him show up in the last story of this trade paperback.
All John Constantine is and will be is already present in this one first novel.
The Tatcher story is a cute and fitting gag, the third is mostly setup for John's family, the Damnation and Redemption armies, the vietnam story is horrifying.
I guess a cool internal monologue does wonders for you!
This is just how I like my John Constantine, though.
Strong and weak, the perfect Wheel of Fortune (though in the Vertigo Tarot Deck, he is The Fool).I do like the single stories best, I think the series loses some of its punch with the more drawn out stories.
There is just something about the asshole antihero that makes me weak in the knees -- and John Constantine is an A-grade asshole.
Character aside, the plots work, they're fast-paced and they're twined together, and the comic book dialogue snaps and crackles when it's not drowning in deliciously cheesy bombast.
I was first introduced to these comics a few years back, but I didn't complete more than a flip-through before putting them on the 'maybe later' shelf in my mind.
This time around I bought it, read it on the train and totally ignored all the odd looks I got for reading comic books in my drab office clothing.
Delicious.
I certainly don't much like the overall joyless cynicism of this world, or the overtly, insulting and pandering political jabs that pop up every other issue.
He's a good character, fun at least in theory, and that's what keeps me coming back.Still, though.
I like the idea of his world, but often not the execution.
Yuppie demons are a fun idea- why make it so dullishly dark and grotesque?
There's not enough ensuing between issues here, we are made too often to fill in the blanks about whatever reason Constantine is ready to hang himself for the hundredth time this morning.
I dunno why I was so surprised, I guess in today's weirdly preachy/don't be too obvious with your message approach from most literature it was odd to see comics hitting a message more obviously than x-men/minority angle.In terms of the story the monologue was pretty OTT, this is on of the true Noir pieces, with ridiculous amounts of monologuing about how scabby the city streets are and how messed up JC feels.
The story themselves are pretty good with John typically out-witting opponents rather than your traditional comic super-hero battles of flashy action.
This totally throws you into the world of Constantine from beginning to end and it's just utter crackers and it's such a good read if you're after something slightly bizarre.
Constantine is a proper geezer, his accent is all over the place he's a bit of a trash bag to be honest, he's a complete mess and nine times out of ten he just makes any situation worse, but that trench coat wearing trash bag tries his best.
At first it comes across as a bunch of collected stories with Constantine having to deal with a whole heap of different messes, and the artwork really lends to the story and the colouring is bright as heck but i love all that.
2.5 stars. I was torn between 2 and 3 stars on this one and ended up with 2.5. Better than okay but not quite "I like it" material. Let's just call it pretty good. Part of the reason this doesn't rate higher is that I know some of the later Hellblazer work is outstanding and so this suffers from comparison.
The new 2011 printing also includes Swamp Thing #76 and #77, in which John makes his first comics appearance.These issues were originally published in 1987/1988, just as the Vertigo imprint was coming into existence -- while most other comics were still in the old "spandex-suited superheroes" game.
ISBN as yet unannounced.EDIT (June 2015): I don't know what happened to the "Dead Boy's Heart" trade, but issues #34-40 have simply been included into the new run, placed at the beginning of the new 2014 Hellblazer Dangerous Habits trade alongside Garth Ennis' fine initial work.

[second read]: the first story seems better now (Constantine really is a bastard, and that story makes it clear from the beginning).
Jamie Delano really hated Margaret Thatcher apparently, as the second story is full of associations between her and demons, devil spawn and the road to hell (a common thread that is picked up later; I think this is the most Margaret Thatcher filled comic series I have ever read).
In the last arc: some nazis, some christian cult, some magic and demon semen that prevents the second coming: like Preacher but done badly.It's badly done, it ages poorly, the art is mediocre and the story, when it's not ridiculous is just preachy or pandering.
Likes: Constantine as a deeply flawed hero, magic/demonic elements, the love story with Zed, and how the plot with the Damnation Army built over the storiesDislikes: I'm not a big fan of this style of art, as it reminds me of Sunday newspaper cartoons. I also found some of the panel layouts to be a bit confusing.
You all know how much I love Constantine. I have brought it up quite a bit in every area of my life so I am obviously thrilled to be re-reading this amazing series. Constantine is my everything. I have loved him from the age of 12 when I first picked this exact collection up and I still adore him to this day.
Great beginning for a story.The definition of a vertigo book lay in this pages. The way the story deals with 80's taboos as AIDS, homosexuality, drugs and many more is amusing.
John Constantine is really a tough character to like... and nice tales. I certainly took my sweet time to finish it 😈☠️
Käsikirjoittajana toimi Jamie Delano ja taiteesta vastasivat John Ridgway ja Alfredo Alcalá.Sarjakuva toimii parhaimmillaan edelleen kohtalaisen hyvin, mistä on kiittäminen paljon päähenkilöä John Constantinea (joka sai ulkomuotonsa Stingilta, kuten kaikki tietänevät).
Constantine on klassinen antisankari, jota ei voi pitää millään tasolla nuhteettomana veikkona; tarinoissa päähenkilö joutuu venyttämään moraalin rajoja ja uhraamaan ystäviään kuin shakkinappuloita ikään, mutta vastapainoksi syyllisyys painaa alituiseen trenssitakkiin verhottuja hartioita."Original Sins" näyttäytyy kirjoitusajankohtansa lapsena ottaen kantaa Englannin sosiaalisiin ongelmiin ja poliiittiseen tilanteeseen.
Erityisen mieleenpainuva on tarina "Going for It", joka huipentuu Margaret Thatcherin uudelleenvalintaan vuonna 1987.
Kauhusarjakuvan ystävien kannattaa ehdottomasti ottaa "Original Sins" haltuun, vaikka henkilökohtaisesti pidin kuvitusta aavistuksen verran luontaantyötävänä ja joitakin juonilinjoja vähän turhan kosmisina.
I’d been warned that the movie was nothing like the actual comic, but all the elements of the movie that I enjoyed most were present.The art is dated and doesn’t add much, but the writing is amazing, especially in the middle story, a supernatural tale of war life and rural reality colliding most violently, “When Johnny Comes Marching Home”.
“Waiting for the Man” also features some very disturbing sections, but like the rest of this volume it’s full of loose ends and set ups for later plot lines.A lot of the imagery in the movie did come straight from the comic, as did large portions of the plot.
Just people who TRY to do the right thing.Jamie Delano's run on Hellblazer introduces us to John through some pretty standard setups that would become typical through the entire 300 issues.
A working class hero with no patience for powers of state or authority.Like with Azzarello's run, I'm going to split my review in quick capsule looks at each story in Original Sins and pick them apart.
This one feels like a breather story after the last one, with a light hearted tone and some comically stupid villains in the form of the skinheads.Ghosts in the Machine: Zed has been kidnapped by the Resurrection Crusade, John's friend Ray has been beaten to death and John's trying some cybermancy.
This collection of the first 9 issues of Hellblazer kicks off the debut of Constantine post the Swamp Thing era.It introduces us to the man behind the Magus... turns out that Constantine is a flawed character, and here I thought he was @above@ all the woes of the world from his introduction in Swamp Thing.A good beginning to a series that would last 300 issues, have its ups and downs... the lowest of which was his transferal from the Vertigo universe back to the DC 52 one.Ah well, it's always fun to come back and re-discover a classic.
except for the movie and tv serie, I never read anything with john before. And this one was a bit underwhelming. John here is a failure. He accomplishes nothing significant. But i am also hooked and I want to see what's coming next.
The real name of the cómic that gives the name to the movie Constantine (2005) with Keanu Reeves and Tilda Swinton.
From the 9 issues in the collected series of 'Original Sins', I think the main theme that underlies the story line is: the convergence between the supernatural and (the all too familiar) urban cynicism as experienced by imprudent loner, John Constantine.
Too bad he had to die so early :(There are many, many more things I would love to write about Original Sins, but I think I've written enough for just the positive things.For the things I found less good in Original Sins: -Zed. In her first appearance in Waiting for the Man, I thought she could have been a very interesting character.
John Constantine is kind of a narcissist, gumshoe/hardboiled detective-type with what feels like a fairly mild case of arcane powers (the magic is subtle in this book).
I feel like we start to get into Constantine's head at this point, but he is not really developed as a character.
As a side note, to kind of sex things up in the series the author has Constantine sleep with lots of women who are portrayed fairly one-dimensionally (aside from Abby in the Swamp Thing tie-in issues, who is complex and conflicted in her love for Alec/Swampy and embodies what is posited as the conflicted relationship between civilization and nature).
Got sad when it was cancelled, so I bought Hellblazer: Original Sins and here we are 4 years later.They should have continued the show.Now. The major problem I have with comic books, and manga as well, is that I'm never really fully immersed in the story?
Doesn't really matter how good the writing, art and plot is, I can never be fully in it.
One reason I think, that I can't get fully immersed is that I can't really feel the characters or the plot on a deeper level, so I can't get emotionally invested.What I liked best with Hellblazer: Original Sins was the writing voice.
Good stories and interesting characters. The art is generally of good quality with several highlights.It is clear that that the comics were not made for this format, since some of the two page spreads were kind of difficult to read in the middle because of the books thickness. This bothered me quite a lot at a few places.
Read last year. It’s awesome. But really I only read it at a prerequisite to Ennis’ run

