https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3692.The_Heart_of_the_Matter
I am reminded of the parable of the stone and should be in a more forgiving mood towards Scobie when looking back at my own past mistakes and at the hurt I had caused to the people I loved (view spoiler)[ thankfully, it didn't get anywhere near murder  (hide spoiler)], so my conclusion and the genius of Greene is to make us aware of the Scobie inside each of us.
Looking beyond the personal drama of Scobie, I feel the need to remark that Graham Greene's prose is outstanding out also in regards to capturing the sense of place and the elusive, ambivalent nature of love - a balancing act between clear eyed, lucid intellectual attraction and atavistic, subconscious lust.
Se uno raggiungesse quello che chiamano il nocciolo della questione.E, nonostante il fastidio che sempre mi generano le questioni di fede religiosa, specie se cattolica - perché il pensiero corre subito al vaticano, e a quel referendum per rispedirlo ad Avignone che non si è mai fatto, e a tutti gli ipocriti bigotti altezza senso di colpa e family day - nonostante questo, io amo i romanzi di Greene, li godo proprio.
551. The Heart of The Matter, Graham GreeneThe Heart of the Matter (1948) is a novel by English author Graham Greene. The book details a life-changing moral crisis for Henry Scobie. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هشتم ماه دسامبر سال 1987 میلادیعنوان: جان کلام؛ نویسنده: گراهام گرین؛ مترجم: حسین حجازی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، بهاران، 1365، در 335 صعنوان: جان کلام؛ نویسنده: گراهام گرین؛ مترجم: پرتو اشراق؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، 1383، در 328 صجان کلام: «گرین» در این داستان به مطامع بشری اشاره دارد که حد و م
551.	The Heart of The Matter, Graham GreeneThe Heart of the Matter (1948) is a novel by English author Graham Greene. The book details a life-changing moral crisis for Henry Scobie. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هشتم ماه دسامبر سال 1987 میلادیعنوان: جان کلام؛ نویسنده: گراهام گرین؛ مترجم: حسین حجازی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، بهاران، 1365، در 335 صعنوان: جان کلام؛ نویسنده: گراهام گرین؛ مترجم: پرتو اشراق؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نیلوفر، 1383، در 328 صجان کلام: «گرین» در این داستان به مطامع بشری اشاره دارد که حد و مرزی نمی‌شناسد. ا. شربیانی
Book Circle Reads 35Rating: 4* of fiveThe Publisher Says: Graham Greene's masterpiece The Heart of the Matter tells the story of a good man enmeshed in love, intrigue, and evil in a West African coastal town.
As Scobie's world crumbles, his personal crisis makes for a novel that is suspenseful, fascinating, and, finally, tragic.Originally published in 1948, The Heart of the Matter is the unforgettable portrait of one man, flawed yet heroic, destroyed and redeemed by a terrible conflict of passion and faith.My Review: An excellent book.
It has at its centre the story of a Scobie – a man of integrity and honesty, a deeply principled police officer and how a series of events changes everything… I know that there was a film adaptation starring Trevor Howard which I would be interested to see – although fully expect that this may well be the usual sanitised Hollywood version / rewrite to which we have become all too accustomed to?I would recommend this book to anyone and it makes me think that I really must read more Graham Greene – does anyone have any recommendations?The Heart of the Matter is a must read and definitely not to be missed.
But even though tourism must have been discouraged during a period of total war, Louise aka Mrs Major Henry Scobie sails back from South Africa and she’s all let’s hang on to what we’ve got and his mind gets all messed up, every day he’s falling in and out of love with the one or the other, but because of the big religious thing he has going on (I should have mentioned that) he’s living in shame.
This capital city is a melting pot with Africans and British of course (and the n-word is frequently tossed around by the latter over gin), Germans, and Syrian merchants, some of whom are Muslim and some Catholic.Our protagonist is the chief of police.
Unlike Brideshead Revisited, also considered a Catholic novel, the discussions of Catholicism aren't incidental to the plot and characters, but very much in the fore.
There are discussions of points of Catholic theology with priests, the protagonist's wife and mistress, and religious discussions at cocktail parties as well as the debates that go on in the police chief's mind.
I know exactly why I love Graham Greene novels; and this, The Heart of the Matter, is a shining example of Greene at his best.
For one, this has the classic Greene love struggles: men and women caught up in that irresistible, uncontrollable force.
How foolish one was to be afraid of loneliness.""If I could just arrange for her happiness first, he thought, and in the confusing night he forgot for the while what experience had taught him -- that no human being can really understand another, and no one can arrange another's happiness."The characters that one grows to care about in a Greene novel -- those that are the centerpiece of his stories -- are always complex.
I just would not expect to fall in love.The book focuses on Major Scobie, a policeman in a British colony of West Africa, where Greene himself spent some time.
Graham Greene peppers this study with a great many insightful observations about death and the attachment that we really have for people, and what love really is.**spoiler alert***Which builds into the second half of the novel, which annoyed the flying fuck out of me, confused me and I'm really not sure if I agree with the premise of it at all.
Introduction, by James Wood--The Heart of the Matter
Reviewers and readers over the years have believed/claimed the main character, Henry Scobie, doesn’t love his wife, Louise.
Don’t they speak to a greater love because they are so difficult?
Love and how it is expressed is central for other characters as well.
Here is a partial quote from Father Rank confessing his admiration of Scobie in a particularly ironic scene: “When I was a novice, I thought people talked to their priests, and I thought God somehow gave the right words.
Don’t mind me, Scobie, don’t listen to me.
I never had much talent for loving God as some people do.
He had a dim idea that perhaps if one delayed long enough, things were taken out of one's hands altogether by death.” “We are all resigned to death: it's life we aren't resigned to.” Later, in his struggle with what to do about his dilemma, he talks to Father Rank, and confesses, without making a commitment to change, which is no confession at all, they both know.
Later on, Father Rank says to Louise:"I know what the Church says.
But it doesn't know what goes on in a single human heart."Greene remained a Catholic until the end, but he never stopped wrestling with the church even as he engaged in what he admitted was sinful behavior, hurtful to his wife and family.
He is upstanding and moral in a place (British colonial West Africa), time (WWII), and profession (the police) that values deception, injustice, and corruption.
The petty colonial British society in the unnamed West African country where he is stationed finds it disagreeable that he has nothing to hide, so they make up scandals to pin on him.
Another reviewer mentioned the unsympathetic and shallow portrayals of the women in Scobie's life; they are that way because the whole society is that way.
It's not misogyny that drives Greene's portrayals; it's disgust for upper-middle-class colonial British society (see Forster's A Passage to India for another take on that).
Not only will you probably make yourself miserable while you’re here on earth and waste time that could be spent eating delicious actual cake, but you’ll most likely fuck up the life of everyone else involved with you.*(For the detailed explanation of the concept of Sky Cake, check out comedian Patton Oswalt’s routine of the same name.)Henry Scobie is a police officer in an unnamed British colony in West Africa during World War II.
Trying to fulfill Louise’s wish to leave will cause Scobie to bend his own code, and that sets off a chain of events that trap him in an ethical dilemma that he can’t square with his own Catholicism.
I hate my job.
I hate my life.
I hate my wife.
I hate my mistress.
I love God but hate him for making me Catholic.
I hate my servant.
I hate the guy blackmailing me.
I hate the guy who's spying on me and is in love with my wife.
I hate everyone around me.
I hate that I might be going to Hell.
Well, I hate this book.
I hate the story.
I hate the characters.
I hate the main characters name.
I hate the setting.
I hate the whiny wife.
And that might be the thing I hate most of all.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
In altre parole, le persone migliori non necessariamente sono quelle che appaiono tali; o, detto in altro modo, non è il rispetto dei dogmi che ci rende migliori, quanto il cuore pulito con cui facciamo le cose.Ma se il nostro giudice siamo noi stessi, con che diritto possiamo permetterci di giudicare gli altri?Il nocciolo della questione per Greene è che viviamo inseguendo delle emozioni, che ci portano a fare azioni che devono poi essere giudicate dal nostro dio interiore.
Και αυτό που κάνει τον Καβάφη τόσο μεγάλο δεν είναι η ασίγαστη επιμονή του στην ολοκληρωτική έκφραση μα κυρίως η Αμφιβολία με την οποία αντικρίζει την ομοφυλοφιλία και τα σύνορα της κοινωνικότητας.
Αν μπορούσα μόνο να εξασφαλίσω πρώτα τη δική της ευτυχία και μέσα στην παραζάλη της νύχτας ξέχασε για λίγο αυτό που του είχε διδάξει η εμπειρία – ότι κανένας άνθρωπος στον κόσμο δε μπορεί να καταλάβει πραγματικά τον άλλο, κι ότι κανείς δε μπορεί να εξασφαλίσει την ευτυχία κανενός >> Με κούρασε, ήταν δύσβατο και στενάχωρο, παράλληλα όμως ήταν πολύ κοντά στις κραυγούλες που βγάζουμε ακατάληπτα, όταν ανακαλύπτουμε ένα νοστιμότατο μεζεδάκι.
He says he wants to be alone but the minute his wife leaves him he starts an affair, and promptly turns it into the same muck his marriage was, and then he throws a total shit fit over going to confession because he has no intention of quitting his affair, and that's definitely not cool with God as he knows Him, and you can see the pickle he's in.The thing with Graham Greene is that he has so much sympathy with the pickle.
This is ridiculous, of course, everyone knows that the point of God is to bash people over the head with it and be a smug hypocrite.It's that bottomless sympathy - and Greene knows it himself because he totally had an affair in Africa in real life - that makes him special, and one of theBest Christian writers ever5.
(As a high school student, I also read one of his short stories, but it proved to be largely forgettable.) There are inevitably details about the book that I've forgotten, but I actually remember the bulk of it, and my reactions to it as I read, pretty well (and checked it out from the college library again so as to have the text on hand to refer to).Greene (1904-1991) was one of the major figures of his day in British literature, "canonized" in the earlier part of the century by a critical establishment that wasn't yet so intolerant of his popularity with ordinary readers and of his Roman Catholic affiliation as it would become in the later decades.
Recommended activity for anyone, especially when things internal and external get too fucked up.Greene writes with this smooth narrative power that I am spellbound by everytime I find it.Listen:"Round the corner, in front of the old cotton tree, where the earliest settlers had gathered their first day on the unfriendly shore, stood the law courts and police station, a great stone building like the grandiloquent boast of weak men.
In the dark narrow passage behind, in the charge-room and the cells, Scobie could always detect the odor of human meanness and injustice- it was the smell of a zoo, of sawdust, excrement, ammonia, and lack of liberty.
όλος ο οίκτος σε ένα βιβλίο...Η αλήθεια είναι ότι μου άρεσε αυτη η υγρασία του βιβλιου, το ημιφως μεσα στο σκοτάδι, ο αποικιοκρατικός αέρας...Μου άρεσε πολύ και αυτό το νουαρ που απέπνεε και ο Γκρην σε τουτο το βιβλιο είναι "μαστορας".
Ίσως φταίει το γεγονός ότι μπήκα σε μια διαδικασία σύγκρισης με το "Η Δύναμις και η Δόξα" που είναι τόσο δυνατό όσο και ο χαρακτήρας του κληρικού και με ένα κείμενο μαχαίρι...Δεν θα έλεγα σε κάποιον να μην διαβάσει Γκρην!
Οι δευτερέοντες χαρακτήρες είναι αποκάλυψη για ακόμη μια φορά με συμπαθέστερη τη σύζυγο του Σκόμπι την Έλεν.
Este relato sobre el camino de perdición que irremediablemente recorre el subcomisario de policía Scobie, un hombre íntegro y católico ferviente, lo sitúa el autor en una colonia olvidada del Imperio británico por la única razón –pienso yo, los nativos son únicamente parte del paisaje- de entrelazar la morosidad de su prosa y la desesperación del protagonista con el clima del lugar: un calor agobiante y disuasorio de cualquier movimiento innecesario (“Nada se perdía aplazando las cosas.
I won't lie, like Monsignor Quixote it has dated more than some of his other works - possibly due to their exploration of internal religious conflict with faith playing a heavy role, rather than just an ethical or spiritual debate without the exploration of Christianity.
Nevertheless, The Heart of the Matter a powerful novel.
It possesses the love elements along with the spiritual conflict of The End of the Affair, yet it also has the deeper historical layering of Greene's The Power and the Glory.
I personally think it better than the former and not quite as strong as the latter.In The Heart of the Matter, Scobie, an officer situated in an oppressive Africa, has sent his wife away for a holiday.
I found reading him simply perplexing to me then, I couldn't help wondering how he wrote superbly and why, his narratives were so powerful that I had to go out at Asia Bookstore in Bangkok on Sukhumvit Road in search of a Penguin paperback to buy a copy and kept reading off and on from Book 1 onward, and left it at that due to probably my fledging skill in English reading proficiency, limited understanding on his writing style as well as background knowledge on its characters especially its rare synopsis in which we can now conveniently search and read as we like from Wikipedia, for instance: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Hea...
But the thing is, I recently read Greene's The Quiet American, and looooved it, and hoped this would be in the same vein and that I would loooove it, but it wasn't and I didn't.The Quiet American is tightly plotted, full of witty irony, sharply drawn characters, exquisitely cynical melancholy, and still-relevant political anger.
Fowler in Quiet American was a miserable bastard too, but he wasn't constantly going on about it like Scobie in Heart, who often repeats repeats himself, or rather Greene often repeats repeats himself on behalf of Scobie.
And do read The Quiet American if you've not yet done so.
3.5 stars.
(Manzoni)".Scobie, il protagonista di questa storia, è un uomo che è mosso sostanzialmente da questo sentimento dal nome antico e così poco agito da parere quasi deprecato.
Solo l'uomo di buona volontà si porta sempre in cuore questa capacità di dannazione "Se l'azione compiuta va contro le regole che ti sei dato ma è agita con cuore puro ed intenti onorevoli, l'uomo che la compie deve essere condannato/giudicato?
E questo essere così severi con sé stessi, è proprio tipico del puro di cuore, dell'uomo di buona volontà.Mi vien da dire che i gesti che ciascuno di noi compie andrebbero forse accompagnati da un foglietto di intenti.
At one time in my life I read a lot of Grahame Greene, I don't know precisely when but it must have been in late autumn or winter because my memory of so many is dreary, rain on the window panes, dark, action played out in black and white.
Relationships here or in The Quiet American as promising a particularly dreary doom.
A decaying post war feeling that suggests a world of defeat in Brighton Rock rather than survival and new opportunity.Perhaps if I read them again I'd be surprised at bright colours and flashes of optimism closed to the characters but open to the reader?
E nella confusione di quella notte dimenticò per un momento quello che l’esperienza gli aveva insegnato: che nessun essere umano può veramente comprendere un altro essere umano, che nessuno può provvedere alla felicità d’un altro Pare sia il capolavoro di Graham Greene, anche se a mio parere di tutta la sua produzione è un titolo meno noto di altri, in inglese recita The heart of the matter, e lì esattamente mi ha portato: nel cuore della questione.
Fatico a trovare le parole per spiegare il perché del mio ardore e credo pure che per cogliere questo romanzo nella sua verticale e abissale profondità, ci voglia un percorso di vita in qualche modo tangente alla storia che Greene racconta.
