https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2161733.Child_44
Tom Rob Smith has taken his premise for Child 44 from the true story of Russian serial murderer, Andrei Chikatilo, who murdered over 50 women and children in Russia during the 1980s.
The first insanity is that the Soviet government denies the existence of crime in its so-called utopian state.
Yet such dead and tortured children's bodies appear throughout Soviet Russia, and despite the growing threat to his own safety, Demidov is determined to stop the child murderer.
A page-turner, indeed, but blood runs even colder when one knows this type of existence was all too real behind the Iron Curtain of the very real Soviet Union.
(B+) 78% | GoodNotes: Nothing special and a bit bland and repetitive, but a real page-turner with loads of atmosphere and a chilling ending.
‘’Brother, if you were a playing card what card would you be? Would you be an ace or a king, a spade or a heart?’’ What a month this has been so far… Gearing up the scheduled readings for the coming Holy Week and the much-needed Easter holidays, I’ve spent March with a number of strange, memorable books that proved to be a rather demanding company. I am not exaggerating in the slightest when I say that Child 44 was the finest, darkest, most emotionally draining reading experience. This isn’t me
What a month this has been so far… Gearing up the scheduled readings for the coming Holy Week and the much-needed Easter holidays, I’ve spent March with a number of strange, memorable books that proved to be a rather demanding company.
I’m sure we’re all educated, open-minded readers that have studied our fair share of Fiction and Non-Fiction on the nightmare that was the Soviet Era. Each one of us has an opinion but we’re here to talk about books not international relations.
The world of Child 44 is a living nightmare and, obviously, one has only to read the basics of Stalin’s reign of terror to feel that the descriptions are not only tangible.
3.5 starsSet at the end of Stalin's reign in 1953 this book was an eye opener for me. I just had no clue.Living in Russia at that time was when you lived in fear of that four a.m. arrest. Are you an enemy of the state? It didn't really matter if you were truly innocent, once you had been named you might as well kiss it good-bye.Leo Demidov is a former war hero who works for the MGB or state security force and had always done his job with no questioning of authority.  There was a joke, popular am
It didn't really matter if you were truly innocent, once you had been named you might as well kiss it good-bye.Leo Demidov is a former war hero who works for the MGB or state security force and had always done his job with no questioning of authority.
Fearing the worst, they got up and kissed each other goodbye:I love you, wife.I love you, husband.Having said their goodbyes they opened the front door.
The man and his wife smiled with relief and thanked God: it was just the building on fire.Then when Leo is forced with an impossible choice he is demoted and sent to a distant out-breach.
This is the first novel in a trilogy featuring former MGB Agent Leo Demidov, who investigates a series of gruesome child murders in Joseph Stalin's Soviet Union.
Chikatilo was convicted of and executed for committing 52 murders in the Soviet Union, though his crimes occurred after the Stalin era.
Rating: 4* of fiveThe Book Report: In the Socialist Worker's Paradise that is Stalin's 1953 Russia, There Is No Crime.
The main character, Leo, is a nasty apparatchik in the State Security forces under Stalin.
The reasons that it turns back on, and the results of Leo's single-minded pursuit of a child murderer, are...gosh...they're *right* and yet, given the 400pp we've spent being plunged into foul, icy sewage, again and again, they're weak tea.Leo's past leads him to a future that I can't call bright, but at least he's able to do the right thing sometimes.
The ideological need of the state to present the communist ideal as an actualized reality impaired its ability, its willingness to address bad things when they happened, for surely, in this workers’ paradise, such things would never happen.
Thus all crime is ideological and all criminals are enemies of the state.
Leo is a member of the MGB, state security, and has spent his adult life doing what he has been told to do, doing what is expected, whether it is drinking the ideological Kool-Aid or rousting suspected traitors at 4 in the morning for a nifty round of torture before they are disappeared.
Life is Fear.
Life is Torture.
Life is a matter of Efficiency, more important than Truth.And while living the unimaginable, there is a mysterious child killer on the loose that Security Officer, Leo Demidov is determined to stop, even after his demotion, even after mind altering drugs, even when he is on the run, and even to the detriment of his own life and family.
Clues lead to a place difficult to go, but where answers are found.Great mystery filled with secrets, intrigue and more than one twist along the way....plus a few gross-out moments!
Watched the movie and all I can say is that I wish I would have spent the two plus hours reading.
(view spoiler)[ Denouement matters. (hide spoiler)]3.5 stars.
Child 44 is one of the best books I’ve read all year.
One of the reasons I didn’t was because I realized that while I was riveted, this book is definitely not for everyone.
It’s a thriller though…a very good thriller.Tom Rob Smith creates this nightmarish, claustrophobic world of mistrust and fear that made me feel like I had been thrown into a horrible dystopia.
I’ve read reviews from people that lived in Russia who criticize that Smith gets it wrong and his world is about as subtle as a brick to the head.
I think through a good portion of this book, I was clutching the pages.
Verdade ou Ficção Se há livros capazes de transmitir quão ténue é a linha que separa a realidade da ficção, este é um deles.A história começa no período do Holodomor - uma época de fome induzida pelo próprio Estaline à população da Ucrânia - numa altura em que o Estado se apropriou de toda a produção do campesinato ucraniano.Alegava-se que tal medida se enquadrava no projecto de coletivização agrícola da URSS.
Segundo consta, os esfomeados e desesperados ucranianos, chegaram a envolver-se em atos de canibalismo!...Inspirado nesse hórrido período da História, o autor oferece-nos uma narrativa chocante, mas deveras credível!Quanto à componente de thriller que aqui encontramos, é, também ela, radicada na verdade.
Hace unas semanas vi la película de este libro y no pude resistir la tentación de leerlo. Necesitaba volver a vivir la historia de Leo y Raisa, sus miedos e inseguridades; pero sobre todo, sentir esa sensación de opresión que tan bien describe el autor. Sin duda es una historia dura, sin cloroformo en ninguna parte, atroz en su mayoría, brutal, pero hermosa al mismo tiempo.
Personally, I would say that it is a tad better than Gorky Park - an excellent book about a Soviet policeman.The atmosphere of fear, desperation, tension, suspense has been used so effectively by the author.
Like Arkady Renko of Gorky Park and Xavier March of Fatherland, Leo is a decent human being.
The risk is not from the killer but from the state itself as crime does not exist in Soviet Russia and people trying to prove so are Western agents- enemies of the glorious revolution.
This novel draws you into the story, the characters are very well drawn and the plot is excellent, one of those book that you just cant put down, I loved this thriller/murder mystery book, it is set in the Soviet Union during Stalin's rule and is loosely based on real life killer Andrei Chikatilo and follows the story through the eyes of Leo Dimidov, the government agent who is trying to solve the murders committed by Andrei Chikatilo.
Its a book not for the faint hearted but a real page turner.
This is an expertly rendered and well-executed thriller set in the Stalinist-era Soviet Union. The plot machinations are done just right, and there is enough grim local color--including some harrowing scenes of starvation at the very beginning and the wonderfully iron-clad certainty among the Soviets that a serial killer would be impossible in their country--to lend heft to the proceedings. It's a real page-turner for those who enjoy the cat-and-mouse guessing game of thrillers.
He decides to find the actual culprit, and not just allow the militia to pin it on an unfortunate scapegoat.Having previously watched the movie, I was not expecting to like the book so much.The basic story about a disgraced MGB agent hunting a serial child murderer remains the same, but life in the cut-throat world of communist Russia, as well as Leo's past (view spoiler)[(and as such his connection to the killer) (hide spoiler)] are missing.I especially liked Leo's character development.
Soon, it’s a cause worth killing for.
Soon, it’s a cause worth killing innocent people for.” This book was all kinds of awesomeness.
The author managed to accurately convey the political turmoil of the country in the 1950s, bringing the horror of the oppression and the injustice fully to life.
I personally wasn't aware of the history of the Soviet Union, so in that sense this book was extremely educational.
So, it's a tale of Leo embarking on this journey of self-realisation of coming to terms with the crimes of his government and his loyalty to the state being tested.
https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josep..."The exact number of deaths caused by Stalin's regime is still a subject of debate, but it is widely agreed to be in the order of millions." "The Holodomor famine is sometimes referred to as the Ukrainian Genocide, implying it was engineered by the Soviet government, specifically targeting the Ukrainian people to destroy the Ukrainian nation as a political factor and social entity.
However, even though Leo has discovered one can be a perfect Communist under Stalin's leadership and still be accused, tortured and shot, which is confusing and surprisingly, terrifying to him, he believes in the theories of Communism and in the hope of remolding people into something better in the end.
Originally posted on The Book NymphoThe story is set in 1953 Russia, shortly before the end of Joseph Stalin's reign of terror.
It sets off a chain of events that will forever change the man and his life.
I was mesmerized by this story as it offered a glimpse into an era I knew little about but is important as it provides insight into the probable foundation of current Russian culture.
To challenge any of the government positions often means certain death so Leo's change doesn't happen without consequence.
Leo is at times unsympathetic and at others heroic.
Check on those we trust.” This is a very unique novel which reminded me again and again of George Orwell's 1984 but this one, I loved.
Tom Rob Smith is definitely a gifted writer who has a great way of telling his stories.
The way the story went up and down, with the sudden turns made me unable to put the book down.
I am going to read the next two books in the trilogy and I hope they would be as good as this.
I would certainly recommend this book to everyone who loves thriller mystery novels with politics and philosophical and sociological traits.
Smith recreates the atmosphere of paranoia, doubt and suspicion of the time and place with ease, adding an extra layer of tension to his story.On the surface, a story about someone serial killing small children would be brutal and horrifying enough.
Leo risks everything to investigate the crime.Smith's novel is compelling and page-turning.
Smith is an aspiring screen-writer and there are moments in the story that he paints scenes in a movie-like way.
Smith's ability to re-create Russia in the time of Stalin is compelling as are the characters of Leo and his family.
23.12.2015: Re-visit via the film Had binned this but after such glowing reviews by trusted friends it went back on the shelves. Read by Dennis BoutsikarisExcellent mid three. #87 TBR Busting 2013NEWS 15:04:2015 - Hollywood's Child 44 pulled in Russia after falling foul of culture ministry: Fears of censorship in Russia as Ridley Scott film about serial killer, starring Gary Oldman, withdrawn over ‘distortion of facts and interpretation of events’. Source
I couldn't believe it was Tom Rob Smith's debut novel.
The author even delves into the various motivations why different people would fulfill these brutal roles.
Some of the scenes are very upsetting and this is not for sensitive readers.My only negative is that the ending was a bit too well wrapped up.The Story: Officer Leo Demidov, an idealistic war hero, believes he's building a perfect society.
On the run, Leo soon discovers the danger isn't from the killer he is trying to catch, but from the country he is trying to protect.
Desperately Hunting Child Killer With Bear's Hot Breath on Da Bum4.5An intense thriller that places the reader dead center into the gloom and dread of Stalin's Soviet Union.
The hero police detective Leo Demidov desperately searches for a murderer (who came to be known as the Rostov Ripper, found to have committed 52 murders of children up and down a railway line), all while Demidov operates one step ahead of the breath-quickening bear jaws of the KGB that seeks to enforce as truth the propaganda that there are NO murders committed in a utopian communist society.
Dinamična, uzbudljiva knjiga koja se ne ispušta iz ruku (bukvalno :D)Da nije bilo par nelogičnosti u samoj radnji, i previše lakih i na brzinu smišljenih rešenja određenih situacija, bila bi i odlična. Ovako, ocena koju realno zaslužuje je: vrlo dobar 4.
During this operation it becomes clear that a junior officer covets Leo’s role and is prepared to go to some lengths to ensure he achieves his aim.There is a point in this book at which Leo starts to have doubts about the the actions of the state and this coincides with a conviction that maybe the death of his colleague's son was murder after all.
Its not that it’s prohibited, just that there’s not much to smile about!Set primarily in the months just before and shortly after the death of Stalin, this book really does throw the door open on the political and social issues of the time.
Leo Demidov, a dedicated MGB officer was ordered by his superiors to tell the grieving family that their boy’s death was an unfortunate accident.
A total of 44 deaths - all children, dumped along the railway track, stripped, cut, and laid out...all in the same manner.
The crime in Child 44 is not the sole highlight in this book.
A sense of danger and darkness looms heavily over this book as Leo and his wife risk their lives from sheer determination to catch the killer, while being watched and on the run from MGB.
I finally broke down and added this one due to the high level of great reviews from my GR friends.
This is a book that I couldn't get through fast enough.
Set in the 1950s, Stalinistic Russia where friends and neighbors are turning each other into the police for ANY suspicious activity or anti-Communist sentiment.
The chapters left you hanging for more.
I constantly was like "Just one more chapter..." the twists were good and at one point I actually gasped out loud!Cannot wait to read the rest of this trilogy!
Also, hard to believe that this was the author's first book!
The author takes us back to the post-war 1950’s reworking the true story of a Russian serial killer.
First of a trilogy that did not leave the reader hanging.Yay!
This is not Mission Impossible whatever with guys impossibly hanging off of skyscrapers.
Too bad they messed up the movie version, apparently, but I’ll give it a try anyway just to see the characters brought to life (or death).
Additionally, I was able to drink my wine and follow along with no problem keeping the story straight or character mix-ups.
A straight forward GoodRead.
This well-written book reminded me of Martin Cruz Smith's Arkady Renko series, and a movie based on the true story of a Soviet era serial killer called Citizen X. The detail about living in the 1950's Soviet Union is very convincing, and characters nicely developed. The book's sole flaw is the reveal of the killer's motives and the ending, which come across as something you'd see in a bad Hollywood thriller, but overall this was a fascinating story.
