https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/947848.The_Making_of_the_English_Working_Class
Thompson put at the centre the study of class and looked at those outside of the powerful elites of church and state and most closely at the lives of ordinary people; the Luddites, the weavers, early Methodists, followers of the prophetess Joanna Southcott (ever heard of her?), the mob, papists, artisans, agricultural workers, the new factory workers, trade unionists and so on.
One of the most interesting analyses in the book for me was the dissection of early Methodist worship which has application to all forms of emotional religious worship.
Luddite today means a pointless protester against the inevitable forward progress of the machine.The problem here is that we have virtually no voice from those who were Luddites able to speak to us now, since they were often illiterate while also being organised in extremely illegal and therefore remarkably secretive societies.
The smashing of machines was anything but a random act of seeking to hold back the tide of history, but rather an act of self-defence.Now, even though I found this fascinatingly interesting, it isn’t really why this book ought to continue to be read today – although, like I’ve said already, I’ve read lots of book that mention the Luddites and very few of them put them in this sort of context.
It is those millions who, to varying extents, get some coverage in this book.The downside of Thompson's book was having read it I didn't have any sense of there having been an English Working Class that came to be through a given historical process (except possibly indirectly by implication).The upside of this book is it is a hugely wide-ranging (Methodism, Primitive Methodism, Chartism & reform of Parliament, Joanna Southcott & her followers etc etc) look at England at the beginning of the 19th century from a perspective other than that of the Government and generally other than that of the Upper classes.
In this way, the book (published in the 60's) is a forerunner of historical "postmodernism"(Oh, please forgive me for the term), where authors abandon "objective" evidence (economic statistics) in favor of "subjective" evidence (pamphlets, letters and newspapers).I guess that's hardly a revolutinary arguement now-a-day, but back then, I can hardly imagine.His section on the reaction of workers to the industrial revolution is rather more critical to historians of the left and center, who sought to discount the violence associated with the Luddite movement as somehow unrepresentative of the working class movement in England.
It seems to me that in our condition does indeed revert back to that of the early English working class, the days when riots, rather than strikes, were the dominant mode of political contention.
It seems to me that we are inevitably reverting back to an era when riots MUST be the dominant mode of political contention: unemployment, underemployment, deskilling, and the decimation of organized labor make it inevitable that the strike-form will die out sooner rather than later.As I see it, the need for electoral strategy emerges from the inevitability of the riots to come.
A truly excellent work of history. I'd had this on my mental "to read" list for a very long time. I'm glad I finally read it. Thompson pulls together a massive amount of research to show how the working class became a group that saw itself as a group. But he shows in great detail the ups and downs of different movements as well as those prominent in them.
Thompson's book is, as it says, about the English--not the Scottish, not the Welsh, not the Irish, except insofar as they worked in England--lower orders from approximately 1789 (the inspiration of the French Revolution) until about 1832 (the Reform Bill).
I write "lower orders" as the notion of a working class arose, according to Thompson, during this period.
No, rather, as the title suggests, it is in the sense of what some of the lower orders made of themselves during this period.
Very much this book is about the self-consciousness and agency of English working men and women.Although Thompson is usually identified as a Marxist and Communist, he displays none of the bad habits of either.
He reads a LOT of non-fiction and loves this kinds of deep, trying tome whereas I am a lover of fiction, but he pointed it out as a really important text for understanding the deep class issues ingrained in the history of our English heritage.
Then buy and read this book.
If you're an academic in history, literature, sociology etc interested in the 17th, 18th and 19th century or in how class is constructed via religion, laws and revolution then this is the book for you.
OK, it's been on my currently-reading shelf for a long time.
But never fear, I braved the final 200 pages and made it all the way to the end.A book so long contains many different things.
But many were absolutely fascinating.The final chapter, about the Reform Bill of 1832, seemed particularly poignant in the light of the current debacle of health care reform.
That is, a story of reform being co-opted by all the wrong people and, having begun with hopes for universal franchise, ending with an alliance between the aristocracy and the new middle-class designed to cut out the working class.
Not quite sure if there are exact parallels, but somehow it feels timely.
With the changes of the Enlightenment, French Revolution, and industrial revolution capitalism, as we know it. was gestating. Without sounding Marxist the working class as a collective identity was also being forged by these events. With the mix of oppression, industrialism, new thinking from revolutions outside England working people in a hodgepodge of groups began to think of themselves and their lot as labor as a collective that would begin to shape subsequent politics. things got to come from somewhere and that is True for the working class of England.
I will fully admit that this rating is because I had an extremely difficult time following all the moving pieces; I'm not as familiar with English history as I should be, so the names that I probably should know, I didn't, and that did not help much, but Thompson shifts around so often that it's also dizzying geographically and temporally.
It also read much faster than I thought it would!
Given the enormous size of the book, it goes by pretty quickly!
Read for a graduate course in history; it fostered a lot of good discussion and is a good focal point for discussing the historiographical lineage of social history and the history of working class people in England in the 18th/19th/20th centuries. I personally found it not to my liking as something to read, but it's dense and packed with detail and probably has more to it than I still realize.
Instead of those poles, Thompson finds the half that's never been told and prepares the way for future "people's histories."It's probably ridiculous to write a goodreads-sized review of this thing, so I'll just focus on the bits that impressed me the most.
that was an exciting chapter.
Finally, the concluding chapter had me looking in other reference sources for some of the fascinating demagogues Thompson analyzes.
Yeah, it's long, and jumps right in to details that seem strange if, like me, you don't already have some grounding in that period in England, but the subject matter is exciting stuff.
"Making of the English Working Class" looks at how disparate groups of lower-class Englishmen---- not just workers in the new steam-driven industries, but artisans and small farmers and skilled craftsmen and small shopkeepers as well ---came to see themselves as part of a working class, as a group defined by wage labour and social instability, a group that self-consciously saw its interests as separate from the mill owners and landlords who governed England.
Should a historian be given the right to generalize about intangible sentiments that cannot be quantified in documentation?
He constructs a fascinating case study on how historians convey intangible evidence.
Throughout the book, Thompson draws from testimony and trends in an attempt to holistically evaluate the quality of life of the English working class during the transition to modern industry.
Since quality of life cannot be measured statistically, Thompson attempts at times to generalize and infer, based on available documentation, how we may perceive the emotional welfare of the common populace.
A seminal book that I first read at uni and I have come back to three times since.
It is a book with an agenda whose author makes no pretense at hiding his sympathies and for which I remain an admirer.
In so doing he describes the class response of the wealthy and privileged to the aspirations of the poor and their traditional reaction of repression.It is still a pleasure to read, tempered only by a recognition that the defence of property and privilege remains the base motivation of British government - otherwise why no effective wealth tax and why the continued protection of tax avoiders?
One of the truly great pieces of British history in which Thompson, in his own words, set out ""to rescue the poor stockinger, the Luddite cropper, the 'obsolete' handloom weaver, the 'utopian' artisan, and even the deluded follower of Joanna Southgate, from the enormous condescension of posterity' and does so brilliantly. An enormous powerful book that helped reshape British social history, refocused English labour history, and shifted Marxist British history in fundamental ways. And on top of that, quite brillliant.
For anyone who ever wanted to know more about the other 99% of the British population - those who actually worked for a living - this is THE BOOK. While the overall size of the book may turn people away, at several hundred pages long, it is packed with information that will keep you glued to the pages and not wanting to put it down - and, it is NON-FICTION. I absolutely loved this book, it now has a place in my bookcase because it is just that good.
it took me SIX MONTHS to read this, but I regret nothing
A brilliant combination of good writing, an innovative approach to studying the past, and insightful conclusions about British society during the Industrial Revolution.For a Marxist, Thompson has a profoundly non-determinist understanding of social class.
Thompson doesn’t think class is a static historical entity, but he doesn’t write class off as merely an idea, either.
(He does touch on Irish who moved to England.) By bringing culture into the conversation, Thompson shows how Marxists were wrong to look at economics to the exclusion of other historical factors.
This is the method by which Thompson weaves an engrossing yarn of workers' struggles, innovations, and dreams for fulfilling work.
P. Thompson sets out to “rescue the poor stockinger, the Luddite cropper, the “obsolete” hand-loom weaver, the “utopian” artisan, and even the deluded follower of Joanna Southcott, from the enormous condescension of posterity.” The book serves as a response and a reinterpretation of history against the claims of scholars like T.
He traces the roots of working class radicalism to the Jacobins of the 1790s, arguing that the economic and political tensions along with the tightening hold of a rigid disciplinarian Methodism over the English society led to a series of protests.
Perhaps this is its greatest strength - it shows a diversity of experiences and details many geographically specific events, building up a fascinating picture of England from 1794 to 1832.
I was delighted to discover how much revolutionary sentiment and upheaval took place during the period, as my fascination with the French Revolution stems in part from disappointment at the UK’s more stolid political history.
Although some specific figures are profiled, the book avoids the dangerous trap of ‘Great Man’ history, of concentrating on a few people as personifications of events.
The first section of the book was notable for it was the history of just post French Revolution Britain when a small segment of the working population sought to organize for change while the counter revolutionary goons and fear mongers pushed English isolationism and fear.
This book details every working class movement, protest, philosophy and leader during one of the most important periods of activism in the western world.
Coming with the growth of machinery and the large scale destruction of traditional craftsman, movements sprang up, gained traction, got crushed by the government, or religious bureaucracy, or the Poor Laws, got violent, became aware of the dangers, lost and then gained the middle class moral members of society.
Also considered a core part of any 'left text' Reading list.Despite it's status as likely the most intellectually important English history book ever written, this is not a universal history of England.
It is about the development of English artisan and working class society from 1780 to 1832.This very humanist book saved the forgotten impoverished, sometimes utopian, sometimes mystical workers of England of this fundamental period from historical oblivion.
These are the years when the working class realized that their interests are fundamentally opposed to the upper class.
Read it and learn...This book proved class was worthy of historical investigation, and began a wave of New Left labor historians.
P. Thompson, el libro que revolucionó la historia social y del trabajo.
Thompson específicamente se propone liberar el concepto de “clase” de las categorías osificadas del marxismo estructuralista.
Para este proyecto la experiencia era un concepto clave.
Su noción de experiencia unía ideas de influencia externa y sentimientos subjetivos, lo estructural y lo psicológico.
Esto daba a Thompson una influencia mediadora entre la estructura social y la conciencia social.
Para él experiencia significaba “ser social”, las realidades vividas de la vida social especialmente los dominios afectivos de la familia y la religión y las dimensiones simbólicas de la experiencia.
Nutshell: "The making of the working class is a fact of political and cultural, as much as of economic, history.
Nor should we think of an external force -- the 'industrial revolution' -- working upon some nondescript undifferentiated raw material of humanity, and turning it out at the other end as a 'fresh race of beings'.
The changing productive relations and working conditions of the Industrial Revolution were imposed, not upon raw material, but upon the free-born Englishman [....:] He was the object of massive religious indoctrination and the creator of new political traditions.
The working class made itself as much as it was made." (194)
Whatever flaws this book may have - the absence of women is a major one, yes - it remains incredibly exciting.
The narrative is textured and compelling, and Thompson opens it up to so many voices that it really does convey a sense of the presence of the English working class at the site of its own production.Every national history (and we can debate the dangers of a national history as an aside) deserves this additional treatment.
Hagen Koo offers an attempt in the Korean case, and Ching Kwan Lee gives us a similar look at contemporary China.
I want more.
The seminal book of the Century. Read this book at University and though it's not 'easy reading' as such, I found the subject matter very interesting and thought provoking. According to Wikipedia this '...is an influential and pivotal work of English social history, written by E. P. Thompson, a notable 'New Left' historian; it was published in 1963 (revised 1968) by Victor Gollancz Ltd, and later republished at Pelican, becoming an early Open University Set Book. It concentrates on English artisan and working class society "in its formative years 1780 to 1832."'
Awe-inspiring historical writing, in research and reframing of the state of working-class organization, rebellion, and self-awareness in the midst of the English Industrial Revolution. Long, and ultimately worth it: I was particularly engrossed in the discussion of Luddism, of Owenism, and of the ebb and flow of organizations, clubs, and societies throughout these years in creating political counterbalance to the state's alliance with laissez faire ideology.
Very interesting but incredibly difficult to read, and not just because its over 900 pages long.
