https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211728.Sea_Priestess
The formatting is a muddle and it's full of typos, some of which are so mutilated that I struggled to figure out what the words should have been: Imagine if the auto-correct function on your phone wrote a book for you; it's like that.*Warning: Plot Spoilers Ahead!*The Sea Priestess is a novel about Pagan spirituality, ritual magic, and the archetypal Goddess representing the "divine feminine", whose passions reveal themselves through the ever hypnotic Moon and the Sea in her infinite mystery.
Originally written (and self-published) in 1938, this novel is filled with wonder and wisdom.
Wilfred Maxwell as a character is a superb representation of human nature at its most paradoxical.
There was a section near the end of the story – where the occult rites were described in a lecturing tone, rather than a story telling one – where my interest waned, but in the last 10% of the novel, dealing with the aftermath of Wilfred & Molly’s experience with the mysterious Priest of the Moon, the pace picked up again.The strength of this novel lies in Fortune’s compassionate understanding and insight into human nature.
the old ways were passed on in stories such as these.
evoking a series of vivid images that bring to life the workings of a particular sort of magic, this book accomplishes for the reader what its characters, in its pages, set out to do for themselves.i haven't read much occult literature, so i was perhaps more surprised than i should have been at the sophistication and currency of the magical perspective illustrated in this story.
It was originally published in 1935, so you're not going to find any sultry sex magick here, but the gender dynamics are n't as heavy handed as they could be--Fortune talks about dynamics, rather than totally essentializing--so that's nice.
One similarity between the books which I appreciated was how the characters in both truly created immersive environments to invoke the energies/deities with whom they were working (the moon/the sea).
I also appreciated how the story did not just culminate in the ritual, but showed how the magical training could be incorporated in Maxwell's life about town, and with other characters that appeared.
För den som inte redan vet det har jag de senaste åren intresserat mig allt mer för ickematerialistiska frågor, meningen med livet, finns gud, varför skaver existensen i hjärtat på så många moderna människor, och så vidare.
Men till skillnad från då jag var indienresande hippie letar jag inte längre efter en tro/religion att anamma, jag letar efter vad som känns rätt för mig, och skiter i vad det betyder för andra.
Hon har skrivit mer teoretiska böcker om kabbalah och tarot, som jag inte läst, men är också känd för att ha gestaltat ockultismen i sin litteratur och gjort praktiken tillgänglig.
I had to read this for a Seminar "The Occult in modern literature" and therefor it was interesting, no doubt, but in the reading it wasn't much fun. So, if you are interested in the Tradition of Western Occultism this is an interesting lecture, but if you are searching for a good novel - choose something else.
I loved him with his flaws, his temper and funny way of dealing with things endeared me to him quite a bit.
Their dynamic and relationship can be summed up in a song that has been playing in my mind ever since I finished the book.
Now I have never simply played a song and the lyrics for a review before, but it seems like a cool idea and it's my blog so I can do these fun things.
I swear I didn't know she had the tattoo when I linked the book to this song.
I like her, now I love her.

Although this book is a "classic" in spiritual novels and I was spellbound by the description of moon magic, mythology, rituals and the great occult wisdom by Dion Fortune I found it sometimes.. long-winded. But if you have made it through the boring description of Wilfrids life and the mysterious Vivien arrives it gets better and more interesting. The writing style of the author and the way of thinking and the behaviour of the characters appear often antiquated to me (it was written around 1930
Although this book is a "classic" in spiritual novels and I was spellbound by the description of moon magic, mythology, rituals and the great occult wisdom by Dion Fortune I found it sometimes..
long-winded.
But if you have made it through the boring description of Wilfrid´s life and the mysterious Vivien arrives it gets better and more interesting.
The writing style of the author and the way of thinking and the behaviour of the characters appear often antiquated to me (it was written around 1930).
Nonetheless it´s a worth read if you are interested in occult wisdom in the form of a novel but honestly – it didn´t sweep me of my feet.
I read this book a long time ago and really loved it.Dion Fortune was a famous occultist from the 19
Yes, the book is about Morgan, but it's really about Wilfred, our narrarator, who starts off the book as a self-described "mother's boy", directionless and hating his life. Morgan turns his life around completely. The book features some gorgeous poetry and ritual centered around the Great Goddess Isis. I had to keep reminding myself this book was written in the 1930's because so much of it has influenced contemporary writing on Magick, Witchcraft, and the Occult!
Estate agent Wilfred Maxwell, stricken with asthma, assists mysterious Le Fay Morgan by transforming an old fort by the sea into a villa for her to inhabit. As he bumbles through this task, he is assaulted with memories of being drowned in a sea cave underneath the fort and agrees to revive occult the practices of Atlantis with her.
Haunting. I am new to Dion Fortune. Her books were recommended to me by a tarot reader on a forum. I am also a tarot reader & I can't believe that it's only now that I have discovered her. So interesting to hear her language from the time. Very quaint. But also interesting to see how she inserts magical instruction in the framework of a story.
Fun read for a lark. I like this sort of stuff. This book spells out some of Fortune's thinking and beliefs. Fortune reported visions of Atlantis at a very early age and later developed psychic abilities. Drawn to the occult, she joined the Theosophical Society. Sea Priestess and another book Moon Magic, became influential within Wicca.
So I wonder if Wilfred and Morgan are to Dion these two forces fighting within - the skeptic and dreamer?
Dion Fortune has such a good grasp on the underlying assumptions of her craft that she can give nuance and depth to both characters - they really are great characters and they carry the book well.When I realised the book would be entirely in first person perspective in journal format, I was hesitant - but it works well (other than the spelling errors of the ebook edition, but that is no fault of Wilfred's!).
It got better, but I had to force myself to keep reading it.
It takes about 100 pages for Morgan Le Fay to appear, and even though Wilfred Maxwell is the narrator and technically the main character, SHE—and towards the end the effect she has on Maxwell’s life—is the main focus of the story.
(And the story, as a result, is a taxing read until she appears.)This book is really cool in theory.
This book is a wealth of knowledge and advice on the occult.
I want to acknowledge that a lot of this is explainable by norms of the time period but because it still persists in occult and pagan circles it still irks me.There has been a lot of criticism about archetypes in pagan paradigms that may seem empowering but on further inspection are actually quite rigid/strict gender roles, and this book exemplifies this.
So that was just kind of a turn off to me, as was the fact that the strict gender roles make it somewhat exclusive/heteronormative (I know this is a not an actual occult text, but considering the background of the book it's meant to accompany an instructional text as a sort of example so it doesn't feel unfair to think about this).
This is one of Fortune's classic teaching novels, in which some of the key ideas of her NeoPagan faith are explored through narrative.
Although partially imposed by the legal situation at the time (this was first published in 1935; the practice of witchcraft was illegal in England until 1951, hampering the writing of Fortune, Gardner and others on the topic), the use of a narrative structure in which a seeker gradually learns about the ancient faith both allows the reader to reject without undue stress those bits which do not appeal (I confess I find Atlantis requires a large pinch of salt...
fortunately it's well-provided with sea salt!), and takes one along gradually through material which, presented as a list of propositions or instructions, would be unwieldy and unappealing.
I lucked across a first-edition hard copy of this book and, tattered as it was, I thoroughly enjoyed it. Violet/Dion was masterful at evoking imagery of the locale, complete with in depth senses and dimensions; and her descriptions of the characters were flawless, with foibles, desires, and period clothing. If a reader doesn't get a few deep laughs from the wit and some eyebrow raising enlightenment, s/he just isn't paying attention.
An entertaining, well written read but I couldn't find as much wisdom here as I could in other works (e.g. Carlos Castenada). There is a good bit of goddess worship in the story, but nothing that I felt I could put into practice in my life. This book might inspire someone to start goddess worship, but my guess is that they'd need another resource to tell them how (I don't know how so I could be wrong).
I really liked the story - all the magical and mysterious qualities, but it was longer than it should've been imo. I lost a lot of my interest about halfway through and struggled to finish it. I think it would be a better book at half the length.
This was so amazing on so many levels. I have read her non-fiction for years, but was quite enchanted with this lovely novel. I only wish Violet Firth (her real name) had composed many, many more!
It started off great and was a page turner. The end was quite rushed as if a quick ending was needed. It didn’t make any sense anymore. That is why I took two stars off.
Probably my most favourite Dion Fortune book, although in fairness once you get used to her style they are all excellent.
Being a follower of a Nature religion, and because the book was written by Dion Fortune, I almost felt an obligation to read this.
I believe I am quite knowledgeable in the occult but so much of this novel left me lost and confused.
I give credit to Ms Fortune, having written it in 1938, long before the Women's Movement, or even man's walk upon the Moon (which is a character by all rights in the book).
If you plan to read it, double the amount of time you think you have to devote to it.
It is not an easy, fast read.
That interest led me to this novel by Dion Fortune.This is the tale of a bored British real estate broker who gets involved with a seemingly ageless woman who may just happen to be the reincarnation of a priestess from ancient Atlantis.
I think if Dion Fortune had written this a couple centuries earlier she might have been burned at the stake.
‘This is the Narrow Dick,’ I said.
‘Where the Broad Dick is, I have never been able to discover.’ My juvenile amusement at these place names was, unfortunately, the highlight of the book.
It’s not that the book was bad, just kind of boring.
I thought people would like to read this passage that appears near the end of the book as an addendum to the end of chapter 30 so some spoilers abound.
It goes like so:Dear Reader, If you wish to know the ultimate fate of Ethel - she was so chagrined at having to move the ash bins and use the back door that she married the Vicar, who had lately been bereft of his spouse.
She installed her Mother in a spare room in the draughty but commodious vicarage and lived happily ever afterwards.
She was at last in her element, the Friendly Girls met in the drawing room.
Three quarters a really rather good (if ossified in the prejudices of its time) novel, though the last seventy pages utterly disintegrate (Four words - manic pixie dream girl).
But more importantly , it's very nearly that unicorn of literature, a good, seriously intended and deeply felt novel of the esoteric and the occult.
But I need to repeat the caveat - it's very much of its time and I sense that much of the message of the text hasn't dated all that well either.
I had wanted to read this book for a few years. I finally got around to reading it. The characters were strong, and the story flowed. Very enjoyable.
All of Fortune's novels fall into the category of the "Literature of Ideas", and in her case, the ideas concern the practice and rituals of Magick. They are not meant to be entertainments, though at moments they can entertain, or "fun fast reads".When the character of Vivian Le Fay Morgan appears, the book takes wings and flies. When she leaves, it's back to earth for a tidy wrap-up. Still, this novel and its sequel, MOON MAGIC, show Fortune's ideas at their most mature. They make the pair well worth reading and pondering.
