https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/589278.He
I appreciate the Jungian psychological concepts symbolizing the masculine life's journey, including man's quest for the grail, his fight with dragons and knights along the path, the hermit years, and of course the various feminine characters and complexes represented at every stage of life.
While I am not certain, I believe the author was pleased to see femininity included with the Holy Trinity because it is fundamental to our psychology, although he makes no statement on the theological significance or why in the end four is better than three.
Robert A. Johnson is a Jungian analyst. His book answers positively to the questions: can old myths describe today's man/woman behavior... and psychological development?...and help in psychological healing? The main myth he's referring to is the quest of Parsifal for the Holy Grail. But also the Wounded Fisher King (applying to man, or the masculine side) and the Handless Maiden (applying to woman, or the feminine side)...and other myths. Interestingly, even in Tolkien (Lord of the Rings) the m

Added to Books-Men-Must-Read-List—which I'll be adding to from now on...Johnson employs the myth of The Fisher King and his unlikely hero, Parsifal, in capturing the psychological ascent and descent of man in the course of life.Growth begins when man seizes the Sword from the Red Knight and embarks on his heroic quest.
Only then he's allowed to remain in the Grail Castle, forever nourished by the cornucopia of the Grail— the cornucopia of Life itself.Hint: all the characters and objects in the story are to be understood as psychological content within man's psyche.Here are some gems I've found on the way:"In our myth Parsifal and Blanche Fleur make a perfect example of the correct relationship of man and inner woman.
اسطوره ی جام مقدس سفر روحانی مرد امروز برای رسیدن به جام مقدس و کشف آنیمای درون و به وحدت رسیدن با عنصر شفا بخش درونی است.
در این اثر از داستان نمادین سفر پارسیفال برای دستیابی به جام مقدس و نجات پادشاه ماهیگیر زخمی برای بیان مطلب استفاده شده است.
در این اثر از زخم های انسان به عنوان آبستن یک تولد تازه و یک گام به کمال آگاهی سخن گفته شده است.
The cure for his wound would come when a fool entered the Grail kingdom and asked a specific question.
The process of maturity from boyhood to manhood and the rude awakening of life's brutality that young men encounter is compared to Parsifal's realization of the death of his mother and the guilt that he felt when he failed to cure the Fisher King.
He also deals with the need for a woman's femininity for a man to gain sight of positivity in dark and disheartening times of his life.Coming from a young woman's perspective, I was pretty bored with at least 50% of this book.
I loved some parts of the myth which do really apply to real life and I can relate to.
But in some parts, i felt the author pushing and squeezing the story and moral to a different direction, a direction that he wants.
The academic background or the scientific (psychological) part of the story is weak over all.
This should be a point for the author as I am not biased or have a previous assumption about the myth but he failed in making a strong point.
This was really good, but the only reason I gave it 3 stars instead of my typical 4 is because a lot of it was covered in the last R.A. Johnson book that I read (Balancing heaven and earth). I recommend this book as a great, detailed analysis of the Fisher King and the Holy Grail
rarely do i read a book in one night, even a short one like this.
but that mystical aspect is what i love about some writing - it's really the only way i can connect on a deep, meaningful level."The object of life is not happiness, but to serve God or the Grail.
All of the Grail quests are to serve God. If one understands this and drops his idiotic notion that the meaning of life is personal happiness, then one will find that elusive quality immediately at hand.[...]Such a dilemma!
This book doesn't speak to me at all.
I agree with Robert A.
Johnson that legends and myths, as well as great works of literature, correspond to the human condition--after all, that's what makes them resonate with generations of readers.
However, I don't see the usefulness of picking one and elevating it to a grand statement and prescriptive account of the life journey of every man.
His interpretation of the Parsifal myth lacks concrete examples from actual human experience.
If you accept his premise, you might find great meaning here, but I didn't swallow it for a minute.
Any male who has attempted to project his anima onto a real flesh-and-blood woman in the real world, without doing his own inner spiritual work, will find this book to be an eye opener.The anima can be identified as the totality of the unconscious feminine psychological qualities that a male possesses. CG Jung said that "the encounter with the shadow is the 'apprentice-piece' in the individual's development...that with the anima is the 'masterpiece'". Jung viewed the anima process as being one of the sources of creative ability.
This book should be required reading for every man young or old. If you are interested or paying attention to the works of Jung, Campbell, and our modern day Jordan Peterson, this short read will have you asking questions about yourself, and giving answers, that even the good books rarely do. Can’t recommend it enough. I read it twice in one week.
Author Johnson's use of Jungian pyschology posits the basic conclusion that just as Parsifal ultimately finds meaning by sacrificing for the King instead of focusing on his own needs, a modern man finds meaning by sacrificing for his higher self rather than has more basal materialistic desires.Two compelling ideas arise from this book, one belongs to the author, the other is my personal (though not uncommon) observation.
Moods are not real, and yet I know from personal experience, they are all too easy to get stuck in.But the more compelling idea that strikes me in reading this very brief book, is the universiality of myth in our lives.
Johnson ayuda a entender que la respuesta a esta pregunta no se encuentra en el mundo exterior, sino en una profunda búsqueda interior por parte del hombre.A través del mito del Rey Pescador herido y de Parsifal, en la versión de Chrétien de Troyes, este autor ofrece una visión psicológica de la jornada del hombre, a través de tres etapas:La preparación: donde Parsifal, al lado de su madre, vive en la perfección inconsciente de la niñez.
Aunque tiene el sentimiento de completud inocente y la ilusión de unidad del mundo interno y externo, es un tonto inocente incapaz de relacionarse con ninguna mujer.La travesía: donde Parsifal sufre la imperfección de la edad media.
Robert Johnson's book unfortunately failed to serve the supposed purposes stated in the title.
In fact, exegetical methods would reject Johnson's approach because his methods appear as eisegesis.
Furthermore, Johnson offered no theological frameworks for why he believed that the Christian deity should be a quaternity versus a trinity.
In essence, he failed to provide a rigorous work that was supportable.
Johnson had some positive statements though.
Johnson also argued that men must be able to know the difference between feelings and moods, and that men must avoid being trapped by their feminine "anima" by mastering self-control over his moods.
"He" takes the story of a man's life from boyhood to adulthood and finds through the Parsifal myth the metaphor to describe the maturing process.
Johnson, a Jungian psyhologist, tells the story with the death of Parsifal's father and brother and the knights he encounters along the way.
We find our first love, the idea that feast table is set for us, when it is not, and becoming loyal to a "king" who at first makes us a page and then a knight.
The knight in us then must search for the Holy Grail.
The question asked is "Where does the Holy Grail reside?" Once we know the answer the boy becomes a true man.
Johnson demonstrates a heavily sexist mindset and absolutely no understanding of women at all (Which he himself seems to not be aware of) and seems to be even more medieval than the myth of Parsifal itself.Though there are some things that can be learnt from this work, I advise the readers to take it with a handful of salt, specially everything relative to women, be it psychologically or socially.Robert A.
Johnson's mentality is a nearly medieval one and shouldn't be emulated by anyone in modern times, SPECIALLY when refering to a conjugal life.
I found it far more interesting and insightful than She, mostly because the myth seemed more detailed so there was more of a symbolic framework for the narrative to operate in.
I found some of his claims about gender very dualistic and limiting (ex: Creativity is an inherently feminine force.
I think it's a human or divine force and not something that can be gendered).
Not being a man, I'm not sure how accurate or helpful this book is.
I found it interesting, but not always pertinent to my own development.
Interesting and possibly worth recommending to adult men in your life.
I liked this, but it was so foreign to me, I had a hard time wrapping my head around it. Maybe if I read it again in a year or two, it will sink in then.One thing I liked: when I guy is in a mood ("bitchy"), it's his anima running the show; if you want to help, being more feminine than his anima may help him out of it. Or just stay away. Trying to argue him out of it will just lead to a big awful battle between his anima and your animus.
In this book the Jungian analyst Robert A Johnson uses the French version of the myth of Parsifal's search for the Holy Grail taken by a poem by Chretien de Troyees. I found this book to be entertaining at the most as I do any writings on masculine psychology I felt like I was reading a Philosophers view of a mans journey and this book came off merely someone's theory of mans search for his feminine self.
This book really explains everything about every man that I know. I'm not kidding. I think it should be required reading for men and women, alike. It's only about 80 pages, but it is something that can and probably should be read multiple times.I just bought She and We, and I hope they are as enlightening as this one has been.
First, I cannot emphatically root for Robert A. Johnson more so than with jazz hands and a happy dance--he totally nails the psychology of men and with his additional book on the psychology of woman. He's great, and I'm a tougher critic. Don't walk, run, to get ANYTHING written by this gifted psychologist.
[4.5/5]Crucially important and a very painful book.Not easy to digest - I'll be reading it and revising my notes many times it seems.Recommending it to every male out there - the younger, the better.It's time to go fishing and sometimes battle now.
A wow book.

80 pages for one intriguing idea. Bad mood is caused by externalizing the inner anima.
here's a review: Robert A Johnson's book is a work of Jungian psychology.
What I like most about Jungian psychology is the idea that it decodes the world's heritage of myths to look for meaning.
The myth used in this book is Parsifal (often spelled Percival) and his search for the Holy Grail.
He undermines the value of continence in the life of a man, by saying that whenever in the myth a wise figure (a hermit, parsifal/percival's mother, etc) advises him to be chaste (something the young knight finds difficult) it is only meant to be metaphorical.
This book definitely makes me want to read more works of Jungian psychology.
If the Red Knight battle goes badly, either inwardly or outwardly, that sum of energy will go rampant in the personality and emerge as a bully, a vandal, or an angry young man.
To truly become a man the shadow personality must be struggled with, but it cannot be repressed.
The boy must not repress his aggressiveness since he needs the masculine power of his Red Knight shadow to make his way through the mature world." Pg. 24"It is the accomplished man who is most capable of asking unanswerable questions about his worth and the meaning of his life.
No tocante ao ânimus - nossa psique masculina - e a ânima - nossa psique feminina, enquanto pesquisador de identidade de gênero, preciso discordar com o autor e com Jung de que todo homem busca um princípio feminino - representados aqui pelo cavaleiro Parsifal (Percival), o homem, em busca do Santo Graal (sua parte feminina, o receptáculo).
Muitos homens já nascem femininos, ou desenvolvem muito mais a anima do que o animus e, por isso, precisam buscar um princípio masculino e não feminino em sua "jornada do cavaleiro".
The mythic adventure of the hero.I have enjoyed Robert A Johnson's other books -- She: Understanding Feminine Psychology; Inner work: Using active imagination; and Owning your own shadow.
I was not disappointed.Johnson chooses a more religiously-neutral myth - in this case, that of Parsifal - over the Christ myth, so that more men will be able to not only gain insight and interest, but come to conclusions with a fresh outlook.
The myth of Parsifal shows men how to internalize the mythic adventure so that the potential for self-realization outlasts the actual experience.
X"A true myth teaches us the cure for the dilemma which it portrays" 10 or 11"Freud said that the unconscious is the repository of all the inferior elements of the personality, the us valued things of one's life.
Jung insisted that the unconscious is also the matrix, the artisan well from which all creativity springs Freud would have none of this so the two parted." 14-15"Much of our religious heritage is a map or set of instructions for the deepest meaning of our intention lives, not a set of laws for outer conduct.
To relate to our religious teaching only its literal dimension is to lose its spiritual meaning.
