https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23930.The_Wild_Boys
Anybody that "likes" William S. Burroughs only says that because they want to sound like they can comprehend what in the hell he's talking about when NO ONE actually can. Or they just saw the Naked Lunch movie and thought that talking beetle type-writers are cool.
I learned that reading Burroughs on the bus makes me feel incredibly filthy and awkward from this book. It could be all the allusions to the smell of rectal mucus, or maybe I'm just weird.
The staccato, choppy plot is too disjointed to ever really allow anything to come to a close so the images tend to remain in some vestibule of the brain and come spilling out at night when your poor consciousness tries to form them into some kind of completeness.The images themselves are sometimes gruesome and you can almost sense Burroughs' lunatic energy and all his wild imaginings spilling out on the page and being herded-somewhat unsuccessfully- into the form of a novel.
This is why I love Burroughs he just said things in a way no one else does and the fact that he does not want any women in his distopian fantasy world filled with young men who are filled with an isatiable lust for each other and a lust for violence really does not bother me one bit.
THE WILD BOYS: A BOOK OF THE DEAD, a futuristic story about a group of extremely sexual young boys who engage in warfare with an oppressive governmental regime while having endless amounts of orgies, is, by far, William Burroughs' best novel.
Vividness has never been a problem with Burroughs, but often his exposition lacks a sense of purpose.
THE WILD BOYS features all the usual tropes that you've come to expect from Burroughs.
With THE WILD BOYS, I finally have an understanding of why Burroughs has such a dedicated fan base (he is worshipped like a god by many of my friends in Lawrence, KS).
It requires work and an understanding of what the Beat authors were trying to do and more specifically a grasp of Burroughs' literary aims and personal story.
It does a nice job explaining the movement and giving a brief literary biography to Burroughs and related authors/poets; Marler also discusses the social and literary significance of the Beat movement.The Wild Boys has no coherent story.
Most of the sexual scenes are male on male, and since many come from Burroughs' memory and fantasies, they involve under-age boys and are very graphic and explicit.
It's probably more appropriate to think of it as the 1st of the homoerotic adventure novels.
I read it when I was a research volunteer for a NASA study re space stn living.
I was living in a simulated space stn environment for 15 days w/ 2 other guys.
I took "The Wild Boys" into the study w/ me particularly b/c of its anti-control theme.
After the study was over, I was interviewed by a reporter for the Johns Hopkins Magazine (or some such).
"The Wild Boys" is probably Burroughs's clearest novelistic depicition of feral revolutionaries.
The thought of William S. Burroughs is sometimes better than his actual fiction: picture if you will a man who combines brilliant science fiction with National Geographic pictorials of Amazon tribes, no women, no men, just crazy insane boys who love to kill and jerk off combined with creaky old 1940's boyish Fu Manchu pulp adventure crap. The concept is pretty nuts but the execution is, well, almost as creaky and tiresome as Fu Manchu himself.
He teaches me how to write. And who could read better porn than "The Frisco Kid"?
Man, I did this already, where did I leave it? I'm not doing it again. Beautiful, but abstract. If you dig semi-non-representational art, prose-as-poetry, dreams that someone else dreams for you, check this out. If you like a little more concrete structure, check out his older more linear work.If you're in love with language, check out ANY and ALL THE Burroughs.
God is dumb.A tribe of wild boys thrive in the police state that created and now threatens them. No matter how many drugs you are on, this book will never make sense and that is the point. At times Burroughs plays with scenes, reworks them and plays them out again slightly altered. These scenes are the most readable and interesting. At other times he is speaking in tongues.
But I think I love The Wild Boys.The book is a set of thinly connected vignettes, going as far back as the 1890s and as far forward as 1988, twenty years after the book was written.
A good number of the vignettes are dedicated to boys who, for whatever reason, have decided to leave conventional lives to dive into a world of freedom and sex with other boys.
it touched my spirit, the desire to be wild, to live in touch with your desires outside of straight categorization, to live outside the anxieties of the straight world, freedom from the emasculation and the evil of Western civilization.
A ben vedere, però, questa sua particolare caratteristica non tradisce l'ingenuità di un'opera in corso di definizione, ma risulta essere proprio il suo punto di forza, un romanzo dinamico che trae forza dalla sua irruenza verbale.Gran parte dei romanzi del periodo Nova (a cominciare da Pasto Nudo) sono caratterizzati dalla centralità dell'esperienza della tossicodipendenza, che trasfigura la realtà permettendo al protagonista/narratore/autore di squarciale il velo di Maya e scorgere l'orrore della realtà in sé.
Burroughs had a nice joke on everyone - I guess because of the experimental writing style he got away with this smut.I was reminded of J.G. Ballard, specifically Crash, which I also disliked.
But if you liked Crash, this book would be right up your alley.There is so much sex between and among young teenage boys it reads like a wish fulfillment of a grandscale erotic fantasy.
Even when it seems like Burroughs is actually going to elaborate on a plot, he traps you right back into the same sex scene he has already written 50 times.The plot was threadbare.
Halfway through the book, I had to take a break.
I remember thinking, "What have I gotten myself into?!" The writing becomes incredibly frantic.
Purging to the point of exhaustion.
Paragraphs go on and on without any punctuation, forcing the reader to take it slow and soak up his sickness.
Encounters replayed in his head over and over again; a little different each time.
I felt stuck in the mind of a man tormented by disturbing love affairs of the past.
Replaying these moments in his head, over and over again.
Deperately trying to remember every detail, his imagination taking over and running wild each time.
So I'd been wanting to read something by William S. Burroughs for a while because his name hold such gravitas in my mind... but his writing... well... its pornographic and I nearly didn't finish the book. Definitely would not recommend. Just because something is provocative does not mean that it is worth reading.

Een carnavaleske, hallucinerende trip waarin niets zeker is, geen lichaam of beeld blijft gespaard.
He made a wide U-turn and pulled in to the curb beside us.
He was naked except for a jockstrap, belt and flexible black shoes his flesh red as terra cotta smooth poreless skin tight over the cheekbones deep-set black eyes and a casque of black hair.
He said no word of greeting.
He sat there one foot on the curb looking at Dib. His ears which stuck out from the head trembled slightly and his eyes glistened.
He licked his lips and said one word in a language unknown to me.
What a ride! How many books give you cinematic, psychedelic, bombastic queerness and also leave you with a deeper appreciation of structure and punctuation? Not many, I'll say. Covered in depth on the Bad Books for Bad People podcast: http://badbooksbadpeople.com/episode-...
One of Burroughs' best books. Here, the cut-up technique is used deliberately and sparingly to great effect.
In fact, it is so explicit, so redundant, so mechanical, so direct, so overwhelming, so continuous, it is probably the first time in American literature, as far as I can tell, when the doors have been slammed way open, and we are ready to talk about sex.
This is not a happy book, as much as it can lull you into thinking of it as such, with its pink cover and romping around countrysides.
It is a book very much of the 20th century.
This book is intensively visual and reading this was more like watching a word-movie in my head.
Personally, I preferred Junky and the Western Lands but this one was okay.
The actual wild boys who appear more in the latter part of the novel reminded me of some of the characters in Cities of the Red Night and for this reason I was a little disappointed because I was hoping for something more original from Old Bill.
Read that one first, then Naked Lunch, then the final trilogy that starts with Cities of the Red Night.
This has become possibly my favorite William Burroughs novel.
It’s just a downright perverse, nightmarish vision of the future.
You can probably pick out a thousand titles off the top of your head that deal with a compelling vision of a dystopian future of the world being overrun by a totalitarian police state.
But Burroughs treatment of this common theme, with his surreal language and symbolism, is what separates this from the rest.
Some of the images described by the author remain planted in my head for eternity – particularly the part about the exclusive aristocratic resort that sent its recycled waste to feed the starving oppressed masses locked on the outside.
I stumbled on this book after hearing that Mad Max was heavily based on the Duran Duran song Wild Boys, which in turn was a consolation project after a movie that was supposed to be more directly based on Burroughs' book was cancelled.
I think it's better to just quote a better review:Anybody that "likes" William S.
Burroughs only says that because they want to sound like they can comprehend what in the hell he's talking about when NO ONE actually can.
Or they just saw the Naked Lunch movie and thought that talking beetle type-writers are cool.-Goodreads user Luke
I would probably have thought that this book was a lot more innovative, if I had read it when it was first published, but from the perspective of 2014, it just feels like an overlong music video.
It has an intention to shock, but almost half a century after its first publication, we have all been shocked so many times by both real and fictional extreme behaviors that it is all just a bit ho hum.
I liked Queer a lot better because it was a human story about longing, loss, desire and alienation.
There was humanity there beneath the inhumanity.
In this one, the deliberate numbing of emotion and impersonal extremism left me cold.
Can't get enough of Burroughs.
I definitely have to be in the right mood, the right mindset.
Completely lucid and ready for kaleidoscopic change.
The book reads like a sexual dream amidst a rebellion.
Submission and adoration and lots of breathless escape amidst warfare.
All, again, at the pace of a dream you'll never remember.
Burroughs is one of those authors who will always endlessly inspire me for the way that he never lets a plot or the intricacies of actual interactions or occurrences slow down his own logic or narrative.
Such a visionary.
i think i should qualify this: as with his fold-in, his cut-ups, trilogy, i am erring on the side of higher rather than lower rating.
i cannot claim i understood it all.
i really like some of it.
i do not know about the endless, repetitive, boys and sex.
this is kinda the object case whenever someone decries the decadence, filth, corrupting, nature of postmodern or western or just art, and the sex and boys seem integral.
and the boys and sex.
and the boys and sex.
it could be read as linked short stories.
it could be found (very) misogynist.
I basically didn't understand any of this book. I either couldn't appreciate it or it didn't make any sense. The only parts that are comprehensible are the ones including sex (They sure have lots of it!), food, or violence. I found it incredibly witty that the title of almost every chapter was actually in each chapter either in italics or OMG LOOK AT ME CAPS. /sarcasm Annoying.Also, Hemingway is quoted in the book. Insta-fail.
Of course there are no women in Burroughs' post-apocalyptic world - just a bunch of boys, running around and doing what boys will do. Burroughs has had much more of an effect on my life while asleep than while awake. Even though the plot is disjointed in this book, it still provided me with much dream material. To journey through Burroughs' unconscious is always a trip worth taking.
I read this for the goodreads 1001 group's book of the month. in odd moments this book has beautiful writing and evokes place and time wonderfully, but too much of this book was just male on male sex with no real story. chapters such as The Silver Smile literally involved one boy having sex with another four times before he tried it on with the next boy who came along.
