https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/691928.Paul_s_Case
Es de esas historias tan intemporales que no puedes creer que sea real la fecha en la que fue escrito. Habla sobre el ser capaz de perderlo todo y sobre el suicidio.
Paul's Case is a short story and probably not as famous as some of Willa Cather's other writings, but it stuck out to me because I could understand the character and his rebellious nature against the society that was trying to force him do things that would make him become something that he despised.
His teachers, as well as his father, wanted him to act “normal” and their versions of normal would have turned him into a man that grew up, married, had kids, and worked for the rest of his life, never seeing the world outside of his town.
With all his being he hates the ugliness and commonness of home and the street he lives in.So he does something which enables him to live the life he wanted, the life he had always dreamed of, briefly and dangerously.
He knows he could not sustain such a lifestyle for long, yet he is living his dream, ah to live for the moment!
He didn't want the life that he was saddled in.
Could it be that to surrender something one was given but which he didn't want is the only honorable response to a world that is deaf to his dreams?
Warning Signs Missed In 1905, when Willa Cather wrote “Paul’s Case”, parents, teachers, and even psychologists may not have readily recognized Paul as a child dealing with depression and sexual identity issues. His fastidious manner, obsession with art, but not as a participant, and his much greater obsession with money and its trapping, I believe shows signs of Paul’s depression and sexual identity issues. Although Paul comes from a lower middle class family, he does what he can to dress up the
His fastidious manner, obsession with art, but not as a participant, and his much greater obsession with money and its trapping, I believe shows signs of Paul’s depression and sexual identity issues.
Everybody in Paul’s life and even Paul himself would have believed homosexuality was wrong.
I believe it is his constant feeling of alienation and his bleak prospect of the future that not only holds Paul in depression but also makes him completely self absorbed.
Paul’s depression and alienation blinds his view to any sort of a plausible future and without seeing a future he cannot care about the present.
I had this book rated as five stars and remembered it as one of the few stories inflicted upon me in high school that I actually liked at the time rather than finding an affection for them later when they were no longer associated with the terror of English class.
Paul's Case worked out the opposite way.The story is of a boy who finds his middle class life and school dreary.
Perhaps the opening of the story having Paul in contact with his dreary teachers and their contempt for him resonated.
Paul was right, luxuriating in a grand New York hotel feels good.
I did not follow that up with a trip to train tracks in New Jersey.
Kudos to the high school English teacher who assigned that story to me way back when; I wish I remember who she was so I could give credit.
Here's a sign of the times or a sign of how clueless I was in high school: reading now about a teenage boy in 1905, I see that he's gay; I did not see that in 1988.
I'm going to have to read more of her work.
One of the greatest short stories I've read, highly recommended to those interested in the form loneliness within art, that'd be a sufficient excuse to read it...
The more I thought about this after I read it, the better I liked it.
I don't think that's right, though: I think it's about the artificiality he is obsessed with.
The means he's using are artificial, the way he's acting is artificial, and of course, all of this feels like it sets him free from what he's trying to escape.
But escapes don't work like that.Unfortunately, I knew how it ended before I read it, because I added it to Goodreads first, which shows it included in the (view spoiler)["Suicide" (hide spoiler)] book group right up on the top of the page.
This is one of many American short story collections that I read in college, when I was too young and drunk to appreciate literary naturalism in any sort of meaningful way.
I'm older and less drunk now, so they resonate more-- particularly the stories about lonely Scandinavians on the American frontier.
"A Wagner Matinee" is a heart-breaking story about a woman whose brief burst of sadness reveals that she sacrificed her greatest love for a dumb guy and a miserably isolated life on the prairie.
"The Enchanted Bluff" is also a great look at lost childhood nostalgia.
They're all great, really.
As a person who loves to read, but hates the books and stories our high school forces us to read, I actually vaguely enjoyed Paul's case.
The actual reading part was boring.
Can something be boring and enjoyable at the same time?
Although the actually reading process wasn't my favorite, I enjoyed breaking down the story itself.
It actually interested me.The story was horrible.
Now the story is boring, enjoyable, and horrible.
He just can't seem to accept reality so he steals his fathers money, lives his fantasy until he finally loses it and kills himself.
An inside look of a teenager's mind who is completely dissatisfied with his life. I think this is a perfect story showing how the mind of a depressed person works. Anyone who has ever asked the questions "Why did he do it? He had so much ahead of him?" should read this story.
I loved this story on a personal level. Very, very deep and can be applied to issues still ongoing today, sadly. 5/5 stars.
The story shows why I wasn't satisfied with 'catcher in the rye'. This is kind of story that should be made compulsory in schools - that is, for all parents and teachers.
i find it difficult to rate short stories, as they are so short, but there was a lot of value worth discussing in this one.
~EVERYTHING AND NOW!~One of America's finest and most well-known short stories, "Paul's Case" presents you with the skillful psychological portrait of youth who wants it all and now.
Many teenagers do, but in Paul's case...
"there is something wrong about the fellow" as his teachers agree.
In early 1900es teachers and parents did not have much information on the signs of depression, which Paul suffered from greatly.I highly recommend reading this short story for the keen observations on character, feelings and beautiful language.
I read this short story online in the course of studying "The Secret DNA of Analyzing Short Stories" ebook by William Drew.
I see most reviews on here are glorifying Paul's actions as someone following their dreams defying normalcy, but I saw Paul as more self indulgent, narcissistic, rash ,possibly depressed, but I still felt sorry for him lol.
the narrator had to tell me .Anyways, the ending was tragic he didn't have to do it that way, but he was lost and only saw one way or no way at all.Overall, I enjoyed this little story and was glad I had the chance to read it.- Brit
The main character, Paul, and the settings are described so fluidly, the reader can almost smell the bad food that he loathes.
Paul believes he is born into the wrong class, and holds such disdain for his own family and neighbors that he can hardly stand to be around them.
The story is symbolic.
I felt compelled to read it more than once, even twice, and I still hope for another ending.
As someone who loves to read the written word in such eloquent form, in my opinion, this story ranks nearly perfect.
In this collection Willa Cather explores themes that she observed in her life on the prairies of mid-America.
The short stories are arranged chronologically.
In two stories, she details the impact of religion on those who looked for solace in their faith, sometimes with unfortunate results.
Many readers view "Paul's Case," as one of her best.
Cather is a favorite author for me and whenever I encounter a work I haven't read I just cannot pass it.
Choose this read for quick look at Cather's unique talent for characterization!
This is a short story, apparently one quite well known, and I must confess that it is the only work by Willa Cather I have read.
Cather's work has been re-examined under the microscope of queer theory and it is quite fruitful to examine this text with that lens.
There is even this sentence: "He burnt like a faggot in a tempest." which must only be read in the language of 1905.
It is very easy to read Paul as a gay teenager, unable to fit in, who dreams of escape.
Sadly, there is only one sure means of escape to be imagined, by Paul, and by this author.
Typical run of the mill high school short story. - Spoilers - Protagonist who's misunderstood or different or struggling with something: checkBoring rising action about protagonist's life: checkPlot twist that's unusual, but not because they're ALL unusual: checkUnnecessary death: checkYep, that's the whole of it. I continue to stand by my slogan about English classes: Nothing makes me hate reading more. Now I know why kids don't read. Hopefully college will be better.
A young man lost. Paul is consumed by art, disillusioned by his home life and alienated by life/society. Cather's story of Paul's Case is a sad tale of a young man misunderstood as well as Paul himself not quite being able to assemble the pieces of who he is to create his authentic self. You are absorbed in Paul's thoughts as he flails aimlessly in this great big world. Cather is a wordsmith and Paul's Case demonstrates her unrelenting talent.
A young man more interested in daydreams and theater than his high school finds himself living the life he always wanted to have. He escapes the life he dreads to live for a week the life he always wanted. He runs from his depression only to find it return when his money runs out. He is left with the choice of whether or not to return to his father's home and the life he hates, or change his fate.
I found it hard to identify with the character, even though I have been through some of the things he has. It would have had a bigger impact, and been more interesting, (for me at least), if there had been some explanation or insight from Paul specifically about why he feels the way he does. I guess I can imagine it for myself, but he came off as a selfish brat through the entire story, except for the basement scene. That was the only glimpse into a disturbed mind.
Society puts so much pressure on the youth. This book reminds us of that reality. Sometimes, it's just too much for them to bear. It's really no surprise that a number of today's youth are depressed. They feel like they're carrying the weight of the world on their shoulders. This is an eye opener. This reminds me of The Catcher in the Rye, The Perks of Being a Wallflower and It's Kind of a Funny Story.
Paul & the story reminded me SO much of Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye. So I absolutely adored Cather's writing style & can't wait to read some of her more popular work.
Available online here: https://cather.unl.edu/ss006.htmlWhat a waste of a story.
Paul's entire "case," as it's titled, was about him being a whiny, spoiled kid who tastes freedom once and thinks he's the shit, before his life comes crumbling down.
I couldn't help but roll my eyes at Paul the entire story through.
I took a class in college in which I read some Willa Cather pieces—not much, but at least some exposure—and I remember disliking it then, and that appears not to have changed.
"Paul's Case" was entirely too long a story with nothing to say in it, with an ending that made me literally roll my eyes for how predictable and unnecessary it was.
Powerful short story, of which the writing was efficient at describing a wealth of information. I was able to relate to Paul despite not being like him at all. Excellent skills. Will have to find some more from this author.
Cather does it again.
This story is beautiful and devastating, filled with questions that are left unanswered surrounding a troubled young boy who wants to find enlightenment
A good short story that gives a taste of her writing. I'm in love with many of her novels. This fell short of the novels but still good.
