https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16161786-story-of-a-secret-state
Account in thirty-three chapters of Polish resistance to the German occupation during the period 1939-1944.
The first edition of this book was a best-seller - this newer edition has new information provided by Karski in 1999 about his meetings with British Foreign Minister Eden and President Roosevelt.
He was good at that - he makes several troops across Europe, escapes from German captivity and police torture, and then infiltrates the Warsaw Ghetto in 1942, and then into a prison camp.
The final chapters discuss his flight through Germany and France to Spain, meetings with the heads of the government-in-exile, and prominent British and American officials.
And so begins the story of the Polish Resistance – the largest resistance movement in all of occupied Europe – the complex secret state operating underground and punishing by death any attempts of collaboration with the Occupant.
The price it had to pay for such unreasonable stubbornness was high – Poland lost 6 million people (including 3 million Polish Jews).Like every good WWII spy thriller Story of A Secret State has arrests, Soviet work camps, German camps, torture, microfilms, dozens of false identities, emergency cyanide pills, and treks through borders of various countries of the war-torn Europe.
Now, this one was extremely good.And it's hard to believe how "Story of a Secret State" had to wait for so long before being re-published.Jan Karski - a nom de plume, pardon d'action - wrote this book with the extreme urgency of a man who has just managed to get through four years of war, starvation, captivity and, on the top of it, a dangerous clandestine patriotic activity.A brilliant combination, isn't it?Nevertheless, "Story of a Secret State" is written very well with its author never claiming to be the best one among those around him or stressing out his bravery and determination.In fact quite the opposite; Karski admits his human fragility while being tortured, his fear of being captured while crossing borders and reckons how some people did heroic actions in Nazi/Soviet occupied Poland without getting the honour they would have deserved at the end of the war.The way Karski tells us about the Polish Underground organization between 1939 and 1943 is amazing and very detailed.
Como é que só muito recentemente, e completamente por acaso, me cruzei com ele?Muito do que eu julgava saber sobre a Segunda Guerra Mundial foi posto em causa e parte do que me surpreendeu foi a estranha capacidade com que Karski conseguiu relatar a sua história tão factualmente.
Sem fazer juízos, sem lamentar a sorte do seu país, antes apelando a que algo fosse feito.Com excepção dos momentos em que dá voz ao sentimento nacional polaco do desejo de que a sua integridade seja restaurada, do ódio aos invasores, do não colaboracionismo e da sua capacidade de resistência, mesmo nos momentos mais intensos da sua história pessoal sentimos que pretende apenas descrever o que se passou.Surpreendeu-me também a minha ignorância sobre a Polónia, seja antes ou depois da Segunda Guerra Mundial.
In this book, Karski adds some perspective, by describing things like his escape from Poland through the Alps (he was apparently a very skilled skier) to carry out his courier duties, and the fact that after he was captured and tortured by the Gestapo, he was rescued by people who came prepared to kill him if he was unable to assist in his own escape; a precaution he agreed with, because he was afraid that he would be forced to betray his comerades otherwise.There's a tendency to treat people as either helpless victims or victimizers, with no other categories.
There were Jewish collaborators in the ghettos--and there were resistance groups both inside and outside the ghettos.Karski provides a perspective rarely seen, and the book is worth reading for that alone.
Karski has erected a monument for the Polish Resistance.The politics of the Allied of those days (1942-1944), with all the lack of understanding of the specific Polish situation, seen from a free world centre of militairy activities, held them back from giving any priority to do something directly about the holocaust, about which they have been informed in detail and with accuracy by the trustworthy witness Jan Karski.The author is never emphasizing his own personal bravery, but pointing out to the strength of the Polish people as a collective; not the hardship itself but the idealistic purpose is backdrop and foreground.
An unbelievable true story of a man secretly and abruptly called to war from his world of elite society parties.
Captured by the Russians, he escapes by posing as a working-class private right into a German cattle car enroute to a "camp." Escaping from the Gestapo multiple times, Karski finds himself as courier, spy and propagandist in the Polish underground.
At one point he even sold bonds for the underground government, in Poland, under the nose of the Germans!
Through the war he finds out the hard way who his true friends are.
Really enjoyed the book. It's written by a professor, sadly now deceased, of mine at Georgetown. Karski has got to be one of the few people smuggled into and out of the Nazi death camps in Poland. He eventually gained a private interview with FDR, giving the President undeniable proof of what the Nazis were doing in the death camps. Sadly the allies did not act on Karski's information.
This is one of the most intriguing and exciting books about World War II, primarily the Polish resistance, that I have read. The bravery and determination of Karski is outstanding, his tale-telling superb, and it made for quite an emotional read.
Roosevelt Lied to Polish LeadersJan Karski’s trip to England and the US, which warned the Allies of the Holocaust in progress, is well known.
For example, Karski’s visit to the Belzec death camp [or nearby subcamp] was facilitated by a rendezvous on the nearby property of a Polish farmer who was also a member of the Underground (p.
It is a shame that Roosevelt made such supportive statements about Poland while, behind Karski’s back, he was already selling out the Poles to the Soviet Union.A REFLECTIONHere we are nearly 75 years after WWII, and what has happened?
If you're looking for a feel good story don't even think about picking this book up.
But if you're looking for a different perspective on World War II this is your book.
Told from the author's first person perspective it chronicles his experiences in the Polish Underground as they attempted to fight the German (and Russian on the eastern border) occupations.
That last chapter may actually make you angry as he literally travels the world telling world leaders of the German atrocities and no one believes him and no action is taken.
Very well written and the author's story is one I'd been unaware of.
Incredible book. The story of an underground agent in WWII Poland, who experiences kidnapping, torture, witnesses death camps, the Warsaw ghetto, and describes it vividly. It reads like an adventure story, except it's all real and teaches you a lot about the German occupation of Poland. Can't recommend this enough
Jan Karski's story deals with the end of Poland's brief independence and its brutal invasion and occupation by Nazi Germany.
First published at the end of the war it is a fisrt hand account of Karski's role as a key member of the Polish Resistance and a record of Poland's exerience of those years.
During the war of liberation Karski rose to effectively become a key diplomat for the resistance travelling across occupied Europe, liasing with the Polish Government in excile, the leaders of the resistence in occupied Poland and meeting with leaders of the Allied Powers fighting the Axis.
Ponadto, jako adresowana do zagranicznego odbiorcy, opowieść o polskim Państwie Podziemnym pozbawiona została jakichkolwiek odniesień krytycznych do politycznych przepychanek i wojenek, które bynajmniej w podziemiu i na emigracji nie ustały, i o których w Jednym życiu mówi Karski dużo, ze wzburzeniem i goryczą.
Kiedy czytam że „Ludzie z podziemnej organizacji wiedzieli, że w odwecie za każdą przeprowadzoną akcję zostanie powieszona pewna liczba zakładników”, nie jest mi łatwo zaakceptować konkluzję autora: „Ale nie było wyjścia - ruch oporu musiał działać.” Oprócz akcji, do których powraca Karski w biografii, w których sam brał udział, opisuje w Tajnym państwie inne inicjatywy odwetowe, niektóre co najmniej dwuznaczne moralnie, jak na przykład podsuwanie Niemcom prostytutek zarażonych chorobami wenerycznymi, świadome wykorzystywanie przeciw nim kryminalistów czy przekupywanie niemieckich urzędników i żołnierzy a potem skuteczne ich szantażowanie.
He then drew for our benefit a comic picture of the panicky interval he had spent waiting for the policeman to withdraw, his guilty entrance into the house and his mingled consternation and relief when he found that his presence was desired merely at an army camp and not in a court of law.” “The march lasted several hours, our spirits sinking slowly….here for the first time, we felt the full weight of our misfortunes, how far we had traveled from our normal state of existence in only three short weeks.”3 weeks was all it took for Poland to be invaded and conquered.
Karski was more of an administrator in the Polish underground than a fighter, so anyone looking for stories about raids, sabotage and armed resistance might be a little disappointed.
But Karski's account is a vital document that reveals just how vigorously the Poles resisted the Nazis - a story that became lost as Poland was subsumed into the Soviet sphere after the war and all stories of non-Communist resistance were suppressed.
Least engaging are the accounts of how the Polish state reorganised itself into an underground operation, because the details of administration were more interesting to his wartime readers than to us now.


What a man, what a time to be such a man, and thank God for such men
The book is well written, giving the reader a clear idea of how appalling conditions were at the time and a remarkably detailed picture of how complex the Underground was and how it operated.
Footage of the death camps which appeared after the war was not available at the time this book was published, and though their existence was known about the author hoped to convince the Allies of the full horror of what the Germans was doing, hence the book’s subtitle, ‘My Report to the World’.
They daily acts of defiance and sacrifice of the Polish people were inspiring, and every time I opened this book I was completely moved.
With the nature of their work and the times in which they were living, many of these brave people were arrested and murdered by the Nazis.
I had to pause several times to grieve before moving on to the next chapter.
While I was reading this book, I could visualize everything.
I also recommend history teachers assign this book as supplementary reading for students.
Please read this book!
Story of a Secret State is a very interesting account of the travails of a member of the Polish underground during the first few years of the Second World War. Jan Karski was in his early twenties when he became involved and quickly rose to become an important messenger and liaison man.His book, first published in 1944, tells of the courage and determination of the Polish people in the face of appalling adversity from their Nazi occupiers.
He managed to survive for years as part of the Polish resistance, then managed to sneak out of Poland to present reports about what all had been going on under the Nazi regime to both the Polish government in exile in London, as well as the rest of the world.
As such provides all kinds of details that maybe the modern reader is less interested in, such as the command structure of the Polish resistance and exiled government, and details about how they were managing things.
I especially liked reading about his time sneaking into the Warsaw ghetto.
I have read a great many books on the history of the War, and particularly about the conduct of the Germans.
I even thought I knew a little bit about Poland before, during and after the war.
And yet I never heard of this wonderful book, a factual and unvarnished personal narrative.
Part a personal history (reads like an unbelievable adventure story), part an overview of the mission and structure of the Polish Underground and resistance (a bit repetitive at times), and a brief (but terribly moving and horrible) description of the treatment of Jews (the Ghetto, the Death Camps).
This book was mentioned in another book I read and I decided to check it out.
I found this book barely covered The Holocaust and instead focused on The Polish Underground during World War II.
Jan was a member of the Polish Underground and was a courier.
Eventually he would have different positions in the Underground before he would leave Europe to tell the world of what he saw.
I do think this book was too long and had details that were unneeded considering Jan's journey.
I would have liked to have learned how Jan's report affected the world.
I am not an ignorant in this field - the events of WWII - but it is probably the very first time when the images painted by Jan Karski - a direct witness to human misery and suffering, who risked visiting Warsaw's Getto and nearby Death Camps in occupied Poland - will forever hunt my mind ...Yet, one must crave for that old world marked by deep sense of patriotism, devotion, dedication, compassion, love & sacrifice ...
The author, a member of the Polish Underground during World War II, wrote this memoir of his activities during the war, particularly his efforts to bring the world's attention to the Holocaust. It is written like a novel, and reads very well, although some parts are a little slow. It is a fascinating insight into a troubled time in history.
This is a top-notch work of non-fiction by a hero of mine, Polish Catholic Jan Karski, who risked his life during the Holocaust as a courier and spy for the Polish government in exile and to desperately try to get powerful nations like the USA to intervene on behalf of the Jews without luck (FDR was a Jew hating bigot). Powerful stuff.
Never can I imagine going through what Jan Karski went through, let alone being so strong and courageous as he. The book awed and amazed me, brought me to tears, made me re-think humanity and gave me the utmost respect for the Polish people. This is a must-read, especially if you revel in the history of WWII and the untold heroes who lived it.
I am absolutely staggered by the heroism and suffering Jan Karski describes in this truly harrowing book. The moment I finished, I said ‘my god’ and had to contemplate what I had just read. My words can not do this book the justice it deserves, so I will merely state that if you are presented with the opportunity to read this, take it.
