https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31341.Blood_And_Gold
I loved it, and tried to read Interview with the Vampire but never finished it.Almost five years later, I was in Sestriere, Italy, a small mountain town outside of Torino, near the French and Swiss borders.
I raided Nana's, and the only applealing option was the newest Anne Rice paperback, Blood and Gold.I curled up in my bed with my new book, not exactly looking forward to it, but knowing it was better than nothing.
All four main characters - Louis, Lestat, Claudia and Daniel - appear in other books, I'm familiar with the plot points, and don't think it's necessary.
Neither do we have a redeemingly interesting frame story to carry us through - Marius tells his story of an equally irritating fellow vampire named Thorne, after the two new aquantainces have (listen to this) taken a bath together.There are a few entirely fascinating characters, such as the Greek vampire Eudoxia, who practically rules over the other vampires in Constaintinople, but Marius rather ends up destroying their lives, which merely serves to make us detest our protaganist further.Not recommended, unless you want to finish the series or really, really like Marius.
Shall I say Marius de Romanus is my new favorite vampire, in all of his oozing sensuality?
Why, yes.Reading this book made me excited to reread The Vampire Chronicles.
I have to admit, I actually found myself falling in love with Marius, or at least developing a crush on him, towards the end of the book.
By this I mean, a very watered-down version through the eyes of a centuries-old Blood Drinker, of the rise and fall of Rome, the creation of Constantinople, the subsequent Dark Ages, and the Renaissance.
This has been, by far that I can remember, one of my most favorite books of the Vampire Chronicles series.
Funnily enough, real life biographies have more sense of a dramatic arc than this book, for example.
The 'exotic' settings have become old hat pretty much since the second book and even if Marius is Rice's most developed character as some here claim--although I'm not sure--his predicament is also pretty much a rehash of whatever the other characters in the series have gone through in their respective tales.
Also, the secondary characters in this book become real mainly through the fact that the knowledgeable reader connects them with earlier books in the series.
I enjoy books that I can savor – take my time over, and I truly love sharing the reading experience – so when someone mentions a book they love, I’m apt to pick it up.
And if you read the book – you know who I’m talking about (B) He fell in love with a young man, shipwrecked him, I felt, in his denial of her.
Oh – I thought – oh so human and I began to hate that I was reading this book.
When a character gets into your head like that – it was a good book.
I've always really admired the wisdom and even temper of Marius, particularly in The Queen of the Damned and although we knew a little of him from the two previously mentioned books, it was a treat to have his story fleshed out even more and his perspective shown on things we already knew the other side of.
I was feeling like awarding this book three stars because of that feeling, but sitting down to write about it has induced me to add back the fourth star I was intending to give it right before I came to the end.
This novel nurtures the already well established character of Marius whilst upkeeping previous vampire chronicles in its wake and pleasingly adding the Talamasca for yet more interesting interaction with the supernatural.
I agree that as with most Anne Rice books there does not feel like there is a beginning, middle and an end but as it is essentially a biography of a fictional character I feel it is presented wonderfully as always.
The patterns of the vampire chronicles are the same but the characters themselves and their stories are not.
“Sangre” me costó terminar este libro y “oro” valía el tiempo que perdí por hacerlo, fiel a mi convicción de no dejar libros inconclusos.
No tengo ganas de hacerle una reseña extensa y detallada porque seguiría gastando tiempo: muchas de las cosas que no me gustaron son las que esta saga viene arrastrando desde hace un par de libros atrás.
A estas alturas la solemnidad de la eternidad y todos los planteos sobre el bien y el mal se repiten.
La única estrella de la calificación es por las referencias históricas y porque (aún) está escrito de forma decente, a pesar de que noté una inclinación a volver el estilo más sencillo.
This is truly Marius's opus as we follow him through the ages, loving and leaving one famous and infamous person after another.
Can a vampire really love another more than himself?
This question is never really answered here.Marius is smitten by Pandora, Botticelli, and dozens of others and has to leave them all behind, in one way or another.He slogs through the Black Death with out a mark( he's a vamp after all he's already dead right?) Even a plague of that magnitude won't slow our beauteous boy down.
But in the end he seeks vengeance for all that he believes that was done TO him.
Otro personaje entrañable que sin él no habría crónicas...Ese mundo de ser un patricio adinerado es muy interesante, y todavía más el conocer hasta el último detalle sobre este ser inmortal que se ha convertido en leyenda entre los menos poderosos. Me encanta que Anne nos traslade a hechos y momentos muy específicos en la historia añadiendo su dosis de ficción que encajan a la perfección, y que disfruto mucho leer.Conocemos los amores de si vida y que sucede con el resto de los inmortales que ya conocemos y adoramos.
No-one asked you your life story, Marius!To be fair, though, this is one of the better interminably long, over-detailed biographies in the series because a) Marius is a relatively relevant character and b) we get a good sense of him in this book which we haven’t seen elsewhere (unlike, say, The Vampire Armand which was repetitive and added nothing new).We get a good insight into Marius’s character as time and again he repeats the same patterns – Marius needs company.
If not for Pandora, Blood and Gold would be my favourite novel by Anne Rice.
The story of Marius, a logical Roman man, kidnapped and turned into a vampire against his will.
But what stands out for me is the amazing amount of detail Anne Rice puts into her historical fiction.
However, since Pandora mostly focused on their relationship, Anne Rice doesn’t spend nearly as much time on it.
Instead, she focuses on the relationship between Marius and Armand, his student and the courtesan Bianca in Renaissance Italy.
Blood and Gold certainly fills in a lot of the questions I had from reading The Vampire Armand.
Boring to say the least.In this book we are told the story of Marius from his own lips as he explains it to a newly risen vampire named Thorne.
His story was already captioned and a couple of the previous books.Perhaps I liked his story better as a caption instead of in full.
Instead he is simply just always the victor in every circumstance.Though it is beautifully written like the rest of the series, I have to say I did not enjoy this book very much and found it a rather daunting read.
I am hoping that the next few books are better but as I'm heading into number 7 my hopes are not very high at this point.
Every so often I work my way through this series again and I found myself reading the Vampire Chronicles for about the fifth time, as a friend of mine who had never read any of Ms. Rice’s work asked me to ‘buddy read’ them with her.
The last few months have been fun, bringing up memories from the other times I’ve read them, plus now creating new ones with our ‘buddy read’.I can’t believe I had never left a review for any of these books before, but sometimes I get so caught up in reading that I forget to leave a review.
Un verdadero hijo del milenio Marius el romano es quien nos narra esta historia misma que ya había s
All I can say is that I really loved this book.
I finally knew all the story of Marius and Bianca.
And Bianca who saved Marius.
She was real Pandora, and I was like Marius- begged her to stay with me, looked for her...but we still broke up.
Well, Marius looks "good-evil".
The end of the book was quite...strange.
I think Marius had to forgive him, because Santino helped him after all to repay for Armand.
In summary, I think this book is very good to understand such emotions like anger, revenge, love, hate, solitude...
But until now, we only knew pieces of Marius' story--of how he became a vampire in an ancient Druidic grove and came to be the keeper of Those Who Must Be Kept."Blood and Gold" fills in the gaps of the story of Marius--how he became a vampire at the hands of the druids of the grove, and then proceeded to Egypt to become the keeper of the two ancient parents, Akasha and Enkil.
We also learn of Armand's origins as a vampire in Venice with Marius.I suspect that this book, like many of Rice's books, is one that will be eagerly consumed by avid Anne Rice fans and received with only mild fanfare by others.

While this book seemed to have an easier prose than most of the Chronicle books (Body Thief aside), the lack of plot or tension or drama or really anything going on kept this book from a higher rating.
Rice's prose in this volume is engaging and forward driven.
Too many characters and themes are brought up in this volume that aren't resolved.
Without giving away the ending, the resolution of this book was lacking and while it should have been satisfying, it was missing the emotional build up that the book had many opportunities of developing, but never did.
My first step into the Vampire Chronicles... Blood and Gold also happens to be my favorite--pregnant with history, rich storytelling, and lovable murderers this book puts Anne Rice's other vampire books to shame. P.S.- It is kind of smutty, if you aren't into that kind of thing, then I would shy away from pre-epiphany Anne Rice. P.P.S.- I read this book in high school, so take this review with a grain of sea salt.
This book is a prime example of why I don't put too much stock into reviews of people that I don't know and/or at least trust their opinion on books because a lot reviews said this book was bad and I couldn't disagree more. I loved this entry in the series! Marius' story is so rich, deep, sad and made for a very entertaining read that further added to Rice's remarkable Vampire Chronicles series.
This book is the most enriching when it comes to being lost in the vampire chronicles world. It is great for anyone that hasn't read the whole series because it explains everything about the supernatural world according to Anne Rice, unlike the previous books before this. it was a bit boring in some parts, but in all it was worth it and i enjoyed this book.
This was my favorite book. As I can relate so much to Marius. It fallows the tail of Marius the Vampire. As he deals with problems and meets many interesting people through out the story like Lestat. Overall a very interesting book when it was finished i wanted to keep reading.
The only book that I have ever been able to read cover to cover multiple times!
(view spoiler)[ Marius es un hipócrita, al comienzo del libro abandona a Pandora,porque no puede aguantar que nadie le lleve la contraria.Pasa el resto del libro idealizando su relación con ella,"buscandola" y utilizando al resto de las personas que conoce según su conveniencia para luego, cuando por fin la encuentra,pelear de nuevo con ella....¿no aprendiste nada en todos esos años en los que estuvieron separados?Por cierto....nunca voy a perdonarlo por abandonar a Armand a su suerte.
Seguro que el libro trata de darte una explicación pero fue demasiado conveniente para mi gusto.
This book though...So apparently, the whole 'Vampire Chronicles' series goes backwards from the first book being last and so on, if I understood correctly and this entry is about Marius and Pandora, how they fell in love and Thorne also and some other vampires. The story was too long and had too many characters and too many plotlines. I got tired of it and got lost in it. I like Anne Rice's writing very much but this was a downfall...
siempre que la leo deseo la vida eterna
@ P.S. I love that book!EXPECTATIONS: If you have been following our blog for some time you know that recently I have been marathoning Vampire Chronicles of Anne Rice.
THE WORLD: As it is a book about Marius and he is from old Rome we of course spend a lot of time there.
Actually this book I think is more historical fiction than fiction simply due to the fact that Marius is one of the oldest Anne's vampires and he has a lot of history to talk about.
I am kinda thinking that Anne just used word love as a substitution for a world like.
Blood and Gold is the first of Anne Rice’s Vampire Chronicles I have read and it’s not a let down.
Marius the main character is complex and struggles with the positive and negative aspects of being a vampire in the Roman ages through the present.
After which by certain circumstances another character meets Marius and asks for his life story.
He has many love interests in the book both male and female but his main flame is Pandora the woman he seeks all his life after fighting with her centuries ago.
As Marius tells his life story he reveals the origins of the blood drinkers aka vampires.
Marius used to be one of my favourite characters but after reading this book, I have realized he is quite boring.
It is the actions (or the lack of actions) after Armand is taken from him, that I realized Marius loves to run away from his problems and cannot deal with flaws in other vampires.
Don't get me wrong, I love flawed and imperfect characters, I just cannot forgive Marius for his treatment of Armand and how quickly he forgets about him.
