https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/676.Sailing_Alone_Around_the_Room
Age vitam plenissime Take a walk in the parkperhaps of an evening,moonlight dancing lightlythrough the swaying branches of the willow,reflected off the water,where the heron feeds,Illuminating our path.There is a slight breezea welcome silencelater we will have a fireand listen to the music of the night.I am humbled to remember that poetry is after all everywhere. It envelopes us. It is in the words we read and those we speak to each other. It is in the very air I breathe, deep and slow. I love
Take a walk in the parkperhaps of an evening,moonlight dancing lightlythrough the swaying branches of the willow,reflected off the water,where the heron feeds,Illuminating our path.There is a slight breezea welcome silencelater we will have a fireand listen to the music of the night.I am humbled to remember that poetry is after all everywhere.
It is in the words we read and those we speak to each other.
If you have but a moment, then leave this page at once and read his review.It is after all what brought me here.And so I sail, around the room, while bits and pieces of this cling to me.
I’m going to miss all the mall book stores, they were charmless and empty of any idiosyncrasy in taste or selection but they were bookstores damn it and that beats any teen clothing shop or boutique that will take their places.
Two criteria for book purchasing together at once; I guarantee I’m going to walk out of there with something.
As my two year old son, Brendan, has been known to say(and do), Billy Collins is ‘yucky poo poo.’I read poetry for a number of reasons and expect a number of things from it.
His thoughts on writing in the margins, something I take pleasure in, really made me laugh (this stanza is for you Mike P):We have all seized the white perimeter as our ownand reached for a pen if only to showwe did not just laze in an armchair turning pages;we pressed a thought into the wayside,planted an impression along the verge.This is not a collection to read if you are trying to quit smoking cigarettes however, as he makes them sound so damn appealing in a large variety of poems.
Then In the Aeroplane over theSea comes onto my shuffle and I smileas the bus rushes through the twinkling morningtraffic.Reignited PassionsI may go a week without a poem ifI'm not careful.Sometimes, whole days pass without eventhe thought of a metered sentence.I think, what's the point of capturinglife in the confines of a few phrases whenI am submerged in its plentiful bountyevery waking moment of my day?I take the bus in the mornings; I sitin my classes; I take notes; I ask myprofessors questions; I contrivesmall talk with that girl in Georgian EnglandHistory, the one with perfect, black hair that alwayshas her nose in this or that book; the talk goes nowhere;I go to the dining hall to eat, sometimes I find a friend to eat with,sometimes I eat alone, gnawing on a vegetarian burrito while I stareblankly at the campus quadrangle; I go home to study, usually spanishvocabulary, but more often it's youtube distractions.Then I read Billy Collins and my day becomesA Day, profound and glowing with the infinitewarmth of significance, every discrete bit of life waitingto be written, waiting to be seen.
They're often funny too; I didn't find anything too-heavy within.The author doesn't write his poems too heavily-laden, which has stopped me reading some poets, nor is the language too tied up to read in the evening when mind isn't at its sharpest focus anymore."Vade Mecum"I want the scissors to be very sharpand the table to be perfectly levelwhen you cut me out of my lifeand paste me in that book you always carry.I haven't read his stuff before, but I have a feeling I've read "The Dead" somewhere before, some anthology I guess.
They, along with Scott, fracked the rocky ground from which poetry flows like gas into a wellbore.
Especially when I break it up, right?A bit of humor, a slightly skewed eye, an attitude of approachability, and an artistry with words that’s hard to describe (but easy to like) – it all adds up to a lot of stars.

I know nothing about poetry.
A bad experience in my first-year World Literature class sent me running screaming from the English Department.
This doesn't mean I don't like poetry, just that I know little about it, or how to find good poetry.But when I read s.penkevich's great review of Sailing Alone Around the Room, the poems he posted as part of that caught my attention right away, and I ordered the book from the library.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.


He sees the bar as a time machine putting him fifteen minutes ahead of those people he sees walking outside.
The fun Collins has with names of events can be seen as humorous or as the failure of the education system:The children leave his classroom for the playground to torment the weakand the smartmussing up their hair and breaking their glasses,"Pinup" is about a bored man sitting in a mechanics garage while his car is being worked on.
The man concludes that it can't be helped and returns to his seat and lifts the calendar to the next month and sees a new pinup girl and story.
”I walk through the house reciting it and leave its letters falling through the air of every room.”Whenever I read Billy Collins’ poems, I want to hand them out to people nearby, as if they are small gifts, from him to all of us. They so perfectly exist within their words that they seem almost self-formed, and Billy Collins is merely their handler who has unwrapped them or undressed them and showed us their essence.  ForgetfulnessThe name of the author is the first to gofollowed obediently by th

I have heard the poet Billy Collins read his own work frequently enough that when I read his poems now, I hear them in his voice.
But already, the dry humor, the remarks I love, are present.I bought this for $1 at the Friends of the Library book sale and read it the same day!
read it in its entirety on PoemHunterLines Lost Among Trees"These are not the lines that came to mewhile walking in the woodswith no pen...."Insomnia"Even though the house is deeply silentand the room, with no moon,is perfectly dark...someone inside me will notget off his tricycle..."Tomes (read in its entirety on PoemHunter"There is a section in my library for death..."
A book I would want to read again and again.
This might not be the best poem from this collection but it has that ability to persist in my memory which is not very good with poetry.Introduction to PoetryI ask them to take a poemand hold it up to the lightlike a color slideor press an ear against its hive.I say drop a mouse into a poemand watch him probe his way out,or walk inside the poem's roomand feel the walls for a light switch.I want them to water-skiacross the surface of a poemwaving at the author's name on the shore.But all they want to dois tie the poem to a chair with ropeand torture a confession out of it.They begin beating it with a hoseto find out what it really means.
But here is my favorite Billy Collins poem (not, alas, included in this book, but it will give you a nice taste of his work).the lanyardThe other day as I was ricocheting slowlyoff the blue walls of this room bouncing from typewriter to piano from bookshelf to an envelope lying on the floor, I found myself in the "L" section of the dictionary where my eyes fell upon the word, Lanyard.
"And here," I said, "is the lanyard I made at camp." "And here," I wish to say to her now, "is a smaller gift.
Critics quoted in the front of the book described his "irresistable charm" - but I think that a great deal of that charm is not so much the sublimeness of his poems, but the fact that nearly every person on earth - secretly, deep down - wants to be a poet and the ease and simplicity of Collins' poems make them think that maybe their own writings are worth a little more than they ever supposed.
It is no doubt a good thing that he has - I'm sure - inspired many tobegin reading poetry or to even begin taking more seriously their own writing.I also felt, though, that his own voice - his ego - was ever-present and much too loud.
A past where I sat at a workbench at a camp by a deep Adirondack lake learning how to braid thin plastic strips into a lanyard.
But that did not keep me from crossing strand over strand again and again until I had made a boxy, red and white lanyard for my mother.
"And here," I said, "is the lanyard I made at camp." "And here," I wish to say to her now, "is a smaller gift.
I had read Nine Horses in December of 2015, and while its tone and humor were impeccable, I didn't find much of the depth or texture that gives my favorite poetry traction.Sailing Alone Around the Room, being a collection collected from other collections, was to my eye, a far superior collection.
Collins's calm, winking eye is at work all over the place, but there are poems here about pain, grief, passing time, and precise moments that become so musical or true as to feel spiritual.My favorites included "My Number," "The Dead," "The History Teacher," "Japan," and "Taking off Emily Dickinson's Clothes."
The book is a gift that keeps on giving. Billy Collins' observations and musings sound like they come from Dumbledore, complete with the twinkle in his eye. I read these aloud, by the way, the rhythms make it impossible not to.
Very different from 'The Rain In Portugal' but I was an active reader this time, highlighting and drinking it in. Truly enjoyed this one though, will definitely be reading more by Billy Collins in the future.
I thought, "Oh, this turd's definitely getting itself donated." I remembered Collins as being proudly dull, writing almost exclusively about writing poems, and trying to trick you into thinking that every rudimentary action was a profound moment.
As I flipped through the soon-to-be-donated book, hoping to find a lost hundred, a girl's phone number, or something as good/forgotten as the poetry was bad/forgotten, I found a series of notes I'd left for Collins.
I remember the quick, nervous bird of your love.[Oh for fuck's sake.]---From MarginaliaSometimes the notes are ferocious, skirmishes against the authorraging along the borders of every page .
My philosophically minded friends and I have a debate about Billy Collins' poetry.
They insist that the attempt to chronicle the everyday in a meaningful way can be done in a deeper, more profound manner.
They find Collins lacking in this way.
Nonetheless, I can't help liking so much of what he writes here, even if it can be rightly said, as my aforementioned friends insist, that some of these poems are thin on theme.Anyway, here's a lovely image that closes the poem 'Bar Time':No wonder such thoughtless pleasure derivesfrom tending the small fire of a cigarette, from observing this glass of whiskey and ice,the cold rust I am sipping,or from having an eye on the street outsidewhen Ordinary Time slouches past in a topcoat,rain runing off the brim of his hat,the late edition like a flag in his pocket.
Some of my favorites are: Marginalia where the poet ponders the kinship he feels with people who write in the margin of books; Another Reason Why I Don't Keep a Gun in the House where the poet struggles with his ire at the neighbor's barking dog, and Passengers, his observation that the other passengers in the waiting area of the airport gate may very well be the "possible company of my death" if their plane crashes.
His Introduction to Poetry mirrors my own exasperation with students who demand to be told "what the poem is about." This, and The Complete Robert Frost, are two poetry books that I pick up constantly to reread.
After reading two collections of Collins's poetry prior to this, I thought I had read the best poems. This collection showed me that I was wrong, not only by being even better than the collections I'd read, but also by being the cleverest, wittiest and sublimest poetry collection ever. The poems within cover a wide range of themes with numerous poetic forms, genres, styles and concepts employed. Truly amazing and worth a read! Highly recommended to each and every poetry enthusiasts.
I have to say that I glaze over at most poetry. I always feel that I need to "tie the poem to a chair with rope and torture a confession out of it". But perhaps this book helped me "walk inside the poem's room and feel the walls for a light switch". Although I'll still do that with the hose for beating behind my back.
Billy Collins has always been one of my favourite poets for his minimalist style, clever turns of wit, and thoughtful concepts. And so, I'm happy to report that this collection has not failed to succeed the others in making me laugh, think, and cry.
Amazing. Billy Collins's poetry is such a delight to read. His style is almost irreverent--you can tell that he doesn't take himself too seriously. I don't usually read volumes of poetry straight through, but this one was an exception.
Well, I’ve skipped books on poetry for 30+ years and this book made me feel like a fool for doing so
Then I back the car out of the garageand speed through woods on winding country roads,passing stone walls, farmhouses, and frozen ponds,all perfectly arranged like words in a famous sonnet.(Entah kenapa habis baca puisi ini jadi terbayang sosok tengkorak yang sedang mengetik sambil mnghisap rokok dengan wajahnya yang tersenyum :), seperti sampul sebuah buku filssafat, tapi entah yang mana)
I don't like poetry.
I don't like to curl up with a good book of poems on a rainy day.
The Lanyard isn't in this collection, but you can find it online and should do so at once.
He writes a great many poems about being a poet, which far from being pretentious, are in fact funny and endearing.
He plays with words in fun ways that don't say, "Look at me!
Isn't the language marvelous?!" This is a slim and wonderful little book of poems, whether you've read Collins before or not, you should own this.
