https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/828084.Pictures_of_Hollis_Woods
I knew there was a good reason why I wanted to re-read this book.
I had read it a couple years back and wanted to know for sure why I had liked it so much the first time around.The book touches on what is most important in life and we are shown this by a girl named Hollis Woods.
I genuinely was happy for Hollis like she was a real person, but then I thought to myself that is what makes this story so grand; Hollis could be a real little girl and this could actually happen for her.Even though this book is only 160 odd pages it packs a big punch.
Second book for BookTubeAThon 2017 completed!Pictures of Hollis Woods by Patricia Reilly Giff3 starsHollis Woods has spent her whole life running.
In this novel, Giff tackles tough subjects like Alzheimer's and the effect it has on our loved ones as well as what happens when we believe the things that people tell us instead of defining ourselves.
This is a very intense story for the targeted age group, but I think it's very apt to start exposing children to these kinds of topics, especially topics like self-perception, disease infecting loved ones, and the struggle that children face with defining themselves.
I remembered one scene at/near the end of the movie but was surprised and glad that I remembered no other details of the story, even as I read the book all the happened was not familiar and no memories of the story surfaced as I read it.
The story was like new to me, and from what I remember of the movie, I think it changed a great deal from the book, especially the details of that one thing at the end of the movie and near the end of the book.
This didn't look like my type of book, but I actually really enjoyed it! Innovative storytelling combined with a well-developed main character and excellently written backstory made for a surprisingly engaging MG novel.
This book is geared towards pre-teens and its a good short read for them but you don't necessarily have to be an adolescent to enjoy it. The concept of a family is given a whole new light. Hollis is a very unique character, undeniably one of a kind.
What a wonderful read! I so enjoyed reading this with my friend, Lisa. We both cried happy tears at the end. I know I would've loved this book as a kid, but now that I've discovered art mid-life, I loved it even more. Looking forward to watching the DVD soon. If you enjoy books about misfit, eclectic characters; family stories, with a creative side, and if you enjoy happy endings, you might really like this book as well. I just love a teary, happy ending. My first by this author, and it won't be my last. ❤️
I loved Picture of Hollis Woods.
The way he showed me how was the main character.
Like when in-between chapter the author put sections called pictures.
Hollis leaving her home to live in a way, an adoptive home with new person for her and get away from her life.
A quote when they introduced the new house would be: “I’ve lived here” – Josie raised one eyebrow – “Since they invented the spoon.” Last but not least, is how the author showed me in deep details the environment around Hollis.
I am quickly becoming a fan of Patricia Reilly Giff.
How have I gone my whole well-read life without really knowing anything about such a gentle, effective, talented writer?
This book was lovely.
It was simple, but powerful and touching on themes of changing wayward, defiant behavior by loving: fixing the environment, not fixing the kid.
I loved Hollis and each supporting character.
I am now reading "Lily's Crossing" by Reilly Giff, and I think I'll like it more just because it's longer and more developed.
I can't wait to read many more of the other books she's written.
Lovely!
Highly recommend for age 10 and up. Note: no worries or warnings
Now, I realize that this is a children's book, but there really could have been more back story to Hollis.
Again, just because it's a children's book doesn't mean it can get away with being unsophisticated.
Absolutely nothing surprised me about the book.
None of the characters' actions made sense and I was left rolling my eyes at the events that lead up to the perfect ending wrapped in a little bow.If your looking for a book about a girl in foster care I would go with The Great Gilly Hopkins.
One chapter will be about what's going on in her life at the moment, and then the next will be about a picture she has drawn, and why she drew it, and the story of the picture.
All of the pictures are of things and people in her life, sush as the family she actually feels apart of.
I guess I would suggest it to people who just like to read about people's lives and different things they go through and why the people do certain things in the book.
I love what Patricia Reilly Giff was able to do with Hollis Woods in less than 200 pages. Beautiful book.
This book is one of my all-time favorites. Every time I open it, to any page, it transports me back into her world. It's so bitter-sweet. I love it.
There's just no evidence to back up her feelings.The entire story I felt much like Josie, the aging foster mother who has dementia.
Later in the story the author describes the summer house as having a broken window and snow causing water damage that wasn't noticed until May. Ummm, if I owned two houses four miles apart, I'd be checking in on my house to make sure it was wintering all right.Don't even ask me how much gas Hollis paid for on Long Island, but strangely, after the trip of about 175 miles they were on empty.
It’s not just a novel with words and pages and chapter titles.
The author has painted us a picture, one long, deep, full picture of Hollis Woods, a tough orphan no one can handle.
We see Hollis, see right through her toughness, see her from different angles, see her until we know the real Hollis Woods.
It’s a touching, poignant picture, brimming with depth and emotion.
It’s so much like paint, really, when you think about it.
I liked the flow of Hollis’s thinking, the way her words mixed and matched together to create chapters of flowing, beautiful prose.
What a great picture book for older readers!
Pictures of Hollis Woods takes the reader through a series of beautiful pictures that tells this child's story of growing up within the foster care system.
Once here with her new care taker, Hollis will do whatever it takes to stay in this home.
This is a great story for students to begin to understand the struggles that some children must face at such a young age.
Teachers can use this book for many different purposes and adults can use this book as a great conversation starter with children who may be going through something similar.
Absolutely wonderful. Took me way too long to read. <3
This was a nice story of a young girl named Hollis Woods who is in the foster care system. She narrates the story as she looks over a series of pictures. She tells of times with the Regan family and then comes back to her current home with Josie, an elderly and forgetful artist. The ending was satisfying and I enjoyed this short book.
I read this book quite a while ago. Although I don’t really remember the book I remember really liking it and referring it to friends.
This book was definitely amazing! It is about a girl who runs away from the only family who offers her a home, for a reason you will find out if you read the book. It brought tears to my eyes multiple times!
Seems like I've possibly read this before, regardless it was worth revisiting.
It is written through both flashback and real-time events, which combine to tell the story of Hollis Woods.
She is an artistic girl who is described as a "Mountain of Trouble." However, with time the reader comes to learn that Hollis is passionate and adventurous, and wants nothing more to feel like she belongs.
"Pictures of Hollis Woods" is a story full of how love, family, and friendship can change a person's world.
I would also recommend this book for slightly advanced readers because it may be confusing for students while it changes back and forth between flashbacks and real-time.
Family.It's a concept foreign to Hollis Woods.
Left in the Holliswoods park just hours after birth, Hollis Woods has been running from foster homes ever since.
She is the legendary troubled child of New York."W" is for want.
All she ever wished for was family.
She couldn't run away forever, and now she doesn't want to.But things change.
Life doesn't always go how she wants it.
In order to do what she believes is the right thing, she must give up what she treasures most.This novel is heartbreaking, let me warn you.
It made me wonder how many Hollis' are out there: talented, good, loving and caring kids that have never been allowed the chance to prove it.
I liked this author.
I like it when I can get lost in a story---I don't want to be consciously aware that I am reading a book--I want to be so involved that I forget I am holding and turning pages.
That's why I like her.
She doesn't have to try; she just IS good.
That's why I'm going to read more from her.
And that is why her books have won awards.
You have to keep looking to find the truth"THIS BOOK WAS ABSOLUTELY BEAUTIFUL.
IT WAS SO WELL WRITTEN AND EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS BOOK WAS AMAZING.
I CANT BELIEVE THAT I READ THIS BOOK IN ONE SITTING.
I remember that I thought that I wasn't going to like this book.
But I ended up LOVING it.
One of the only books thar has never made me cry.
I was always wanting Hollis to be okay and that she would get her happy ending.
The ending was so beautiful.
I just really loved this book and I highly highly recommend this book to anyone and everyone.
When I first started reading this book I thought, "Oh, it's one of those poetically written melancholy books. Clearly, someone is going to die."So I was pleasantly surprised when no one died and I would recommend it on that merit alone. It is beautifully written too, if you're the type that loves writing that is prose-like.I only faulted it because it seems to be one of those kids' books that are written more for adults than children. My kids couldn't get into it, probably because of the beautifully written prose, but maybe that just says something about my kids.
I love this book! It is a young adult novel, and I am reading it to my students again this year. It's a really easy read and written so well. You'll adore the character by the second chapter!!Just finished this with my class and I couldn't read the last page because I started to cry. So, an awesome student finished it for me and then we watched the Hallmark DVD to compare/contrast the book/movie.
This is a fast read and a touching story. Watching Hollis find the good in life and in herself is a satisfying journey...I wish there had been more to it. A great book for students who like One for the Murphys.
So heart-breakingly good!
This is the worst book in the history of books. It's so boring, and Hollis is just and totally non like able character. I find myself hoping for the misfortune Hollis ;)
