https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/850223.Bosnian_Chronicle
Savršeno depresivno! Savršeno pisano! Budem iznova šokiran kojom je lakoćom opisivao i pisao Andrić. Sada mi je tematski malo bliža nego kada sam je čitao prvi puta, ali opet je to daleko. Čekam poznije godine da ga upoznam u potpunosti, jer tako se čita Andrić. Barem tri puta u životu.
Tão bom que tem que se ler devagar para durar mais.
Uma escrita clássica ao nível dos realistas do século XIX.Passa-se na Bósnia Otomana, no período das guerras Napoleónicas, onde dois embaixadores, francês e austríaco, lutam contra tudo e entre eles para defender os interesses dos seus impérios mas acabam por se tornar mais próximos pela partilha das adversidades e da cultura europeia comum, num meio hostil onde tudo é diferente do que os une.Ivo Andrič também foi embaixador e durante a segunda guerra, por não querer ceder aos nazis, foi colocado em prisão domiciliária.
Gastou o seu tempo a escrever a trilogia do Drina de que esta Crónica faz parte.
I think that better translation of the title would be Travnik Chronicle.
The characters all, either permanently or not, live in Travnik or immediate vicinity.
As Andrić says “there is something in man that lives regardless of outside life and that, for better or worse, determines his life.” The writer’s chief merit would be capturing that inner live, in that sense he is brilliant.The chronicle spans over seven years, so called "consul years".
The narrative starts with the arrival of first ever consul in Travnik.
Friars are my favourite characters in Andrić's novels and they’re probably the reason why I like his short stories best.

مدينة صغيرة تختزل فيها قصة صراع الإمبراطوريات الكبرى _ عمل دسم جداااا
Πυκνογραμμενο tableau vivant χαρακτήρων με σκηνικό την Πρωτεύουσα της Βοσνίας των αρχών του 19ου αιώνα κάτω από τον ζυγό των Τούρκων, κατοίκων και αρχών.
Αν και δεν με ενθουσίασε, αναγνωρίζω την λεπτοδουλεια και την ικανότητα στην περιγραφή όλων εκείνων των χαρακτήρων που συναντά κανείς ακόμα κ σήμερα, με όλες τις μικροτητες και τις μικροπρεπειες, τα μειονέκτηματα και τις φοβίες, τις υπερβολές, την κακοτητα και την απίστευτη ταύτιση των ανθρώπων της πόλης να αρνούνται συνειδητά καθετί που προσπαθεί να τους βγάλει από την καθημερινότητα τους...
Ένα πραγματικό γλωσσάρι ανθρωπίνων χαρακτήρων!
Niko; gotovo niko..." Zadnje poglavlje pred epilog je verovatno najbolji deo romana, i zbog njega ti nekako još teže pada što si pri kraju ovog monumentalnog dela.
"Sve liči na napola rasklopljenu knjigu na čijim su stranicama, s jedne i druge strane, kao naslikani, bašte, sokaci, kuće, njive, groblja i džamije."Sjajan razvoj likova (mada mi se na trenutke činilo da troši strane i strane da razvije karakter, koji ubrzo nakon toga zauvek nestane iz romana), prikaz istorijskog stanja, ali pre svega prikaz naroda Bosne, njihovih karaktera i međusobnih odnosa, koji su doveli do onoga do čega su doveli u dvadesetom veku.Andrićeve rečenice su lepe.
Residenza del visir ottomano, Travnik, la città natale di Ivo Andrić, fu sede per pochi anni dei consolati francese e austriaco, una delle tante “novità” volute dal sultano riformatore Selim III, affascinato dalla Francia e dal suo “genio” Napoleone.
Proprietari terrieri, mercanti, contadini, ulema e cadì, ma anche soldati e incursori feroci e spietati al comando dei visir, ex signori terrieri di latifondi in Ungheria, massacratori di rivoltosi serbi, nella Bosnia ottomana sono una casta, una comunità che vive isolata dalle altre tre comunità: i cattolici croati, i serbi ortodossi e gli ebrei, i più soli ed abbandonati, che non hanno protettori né negli zar russi, né negli imperatori asburgici.
وقائع مدينة ترافنك لإيفو أندريتش تنتمي إلى الروايات التي يكون بطلها الوحيد هي المدن، حيث تدور الرواية وأحداثها في فترة كان الصراع على الاراضي والدول على أشده بين الامبراطورية النمساوية والفرنسية النابليونية والعثمانية والروسية.
اختزل المؤلف صراع هذه الدول في مدينة صغيرة جبلية معزولة في البوسنة والهرسك تسمى ترافنك: كل دولة لها قنصل يمثلها، وهذه المدينة الجبلية الصغيرة تضم طوائف شتى: المسلمين ينحازون للعثمانيين، المسيحيين يؤيدون امبراطور النمسا، ويرون نابليون كافراً، والأرثوذكس تتطلع قلوبهم نحو روسيا القيصرية.
Izdanje koje citam ima 400 stranica.[1-100]: Čekam da se pripovijedanje razmaše, povremeno vrlo lijepo, a češće se doima kao odrađivanje.
Ipak, strpljivo ću dalje čitati jer mi u zadnje vrijeme nedostaje pravog čitateljskog užitka, a vjerojatnost je veća da ću na to naletjeti ovdje...[100-150]: Psihologijski precizno opisuje karaktere, analizira unutarnje motive likova.
Zanimljivih dogadaja je idalje manje nego u ostalim djelima.[150-200]: Nekako sam povrsno pregurala ovih podosadnih 50 stranica.
A Prokleta avlija je naspram ovog cista fikcija, fantazija, a pripovijedanjem savrsena.Ipak vrijedi citati Travnicku jer je mudrosti svakako puno, a svidja mi se sto su "prizemljenije".
Ό,τι καλύτερο διάβασα εδώ και μήνες...
I read this novel after reading Andrić's The Bridge on the Drina, both of which had been recommended by a Bosnian friend. While The Bridge on the Drina is epic, covering four centuries of history, Bosnian Chronicle covers only four years in the early nineteenth century. Both, however, are limited in geographical scope and the chronicle may be profitably read after The Bridge as if it were another, much longer tale of the many short ones presented therein.
Volim Andrićev stil, milo mi je čitati ga :) Radnja "Travničke hronike" mi je nekako spora (verovatno sam zbog toga i sporo čitala :D), što je i za očekivati - mislim da je pisac čitaocu želeo da dočara učmalost ove zabačene varoši i njenih meštana.Ipak, ne mogu reći da mi se knjiga ne dopada...naprotiv :) 4*
The residents--Bosnians, Muslims, Jews and Christian monks appear from time to time--the monks for obvious reasons interact the most with the consuls, their families and their staff, although they are particularly suspicious of the French regime and its revolutionary heritage.
From that perspective, it is not just the individual In "The Bridge on the Drina" Andric added the dimension of time, creating a world populated by Muslims, Jews and Christians along the bridge from its construction by an Ottoman pasha in the sixteenth century to its partial destruction by the retreating Austro-Hungarian army in World War I.
رغم عدم ميلي للروايات التي تستند على التاريخ إلا أن هذه الرواية مختلفة الأبعاد وتستخدم قصة شيقة تروى باسلوب جاذب وشيق ولا يمل
"Нико не зна шта значи родити се и живети на ивици између два света, познавати и разумевати један и други, а не моћи учинити ништа да се они објасне међу собом и зближе, волети и мрзети и један и други, колебати се и поводити целога века, бити код два завичаја без иједног, бити свуда код куће и остати заувек странац; укратко: живети разапет, али као жртва и мучитељ у исто време " <3
This book is a first step in understanding Bosnia...
Bosnian Chronicle (Bosnian Trilogy #2), Ivo Andrić
Leaving aside the internet discoverability-unfriendly fact that this book has been released under three different titles since its first appearance in 1945, this is an utterly majestic snapshot of Balkan history that provides a key to understanding the region - and Bosnia in particular - like only a local, Nobel Prize winning author can.Andrić's touch is masterful.
It does help to have a broad timeline in your head of the ups and downs of Napoleon's campaigns as well as the jockeying for position of Europe's great powers but I found the book enormously meaningful as a hint of what living in truly momentous times can be like.
http://svetmogarazmisljanja.blogspot....
It's the story of life in Andri's home town of Travnik as experienced by the Austrian and French consuls during the Napoleonic wars, told mainly from the viewpoint of the foreigners living in the town.
Although the foreigners - Austrians, French and Ottoman viziers - all hate living in Travnik and dealing with the locals, I think Andri portrays this as a big mistake on their part.
By the time I was halfway through the book I felt that it should be compulsory reading for anyone working on the Balkans, provided they were prepared to look through the Western characters' stereotypical reactions to the Bosnians.[return][return]Am I reading it too generously?
"Ovaj čovek bez korena i ravnoteže, ali čista srca i ljubopitljiva duha, imao je jedinu, nezdravu ali veliku i nesebičnu strast: da prodre u sudbinu ljudske misli ma gde se ona javljala i ma kojim pravcem išla.
A svaki od njih bio mu je jednako blizak i jednako dalek i sa svakim od njih on je mogao da se saglasi i potpuno poistoveti za izvesno vreme, dok se njime bavi...
Takav čovek ne ni mogao ni u drugoj sredini, manje teškoj i sirovoj, naći sebi pravog mesta ni stvarnog ugleda.
Niko nas ne vuče ka grobu, nego nas s leđa guraju.""I gledajući sve to, pitao se da li je ovo ono najgore, kao čovjek koji ima da izdrži neku operaciju što se pita u svakom trenutku da li je to taj najviši stepen bola o kome su mu govorili ili treba očekivati više i teže.""Gleda, jasno svoga subesednika, čuje svaki prizvuk njegovih reči, vidi i sama sebe i jasno uviđa sve nedostatke onoga što je rekao i svu važnost onoga što iz nerazumljivih razloga nije rekao.
The Bosnian author Ivo Andrić, winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature, set the first of his trio of Bosnian novels in his home town of Travnik when it was under Turkish occupation at the time of the Napoleonic Wars.
The main protagonist is the French consul, but there is a kaleidoscope of other characters, Moslem, Orthodox, Catholic, Jewish - Turks, Slavs, Austrians, French - male and female, young and old, drunk and sober.
The author sees deep into their hearts and their failings.
This was a page-turner, and I'm now eager to start the second book in the series, The Bridge on the Drina.
I still like The Bridge on the Drina more.It contains all the elements that make The Bridge on the Drina a great read. With some additions: the Western perspective of the Orient and the historical relationship of the Great Powers at the time. However, I don't think it's good to read the two books back-to-back, drawing comparisons is inevitable.To be fair, the book shines a light on its own, but if you only have time for one book by Ivo Andrić, I would recommend the other one.
An intensely melancholic collection of finely drawn portraits passing through the Bosnian town of Travnik during the later half of Napoleons reign.
wenn man sich nicht für das napoleonische Zeitalter und nur für gemütliches und mystisches Sliwowitz-Brennen interessiert, kann man gleich bis zum Schluss springen
Long, but good.Andric sets Bosnian Chronicle in his home town of Travnik in northern Bosnia during the time of Napoleon.
Other than the prologue and epilogue, Andric tells the story from the points-of-view of the representatives of western European powers.
Where Andric separates himself for me is the kindness he shows to the representatives of power.
Andric might not like what he perceives as western arrogance toward his family and neighbors.
But he shows great compassion for individuals like Consul Daville caught up in support roles not of their own choosing.
It's plagued by poor roads and sensless conflicts between its population.I enjoyed it most when Andric describes the populace - the Muslim bazaars which were a simmering melting-pot of discontent, the monks and their monastries, the occasional brutal and uncontrollable riots, the Jewish community, exiled from Spain centuries before.
At the end there's a moving moment when one of the Jewish merchants voices his despair at centuries of oppression and yet their determination to hang-on come what may.
After reading the Bridge on the Drina I decided to get to Bosnian Chrnocile and as I loved the first one I had very high expectations on this book, but It's true it gets slow from time to time moslty in the middle, but I liked the storyvery much, I guess Andric takes it's time to describe a lot most of the characters that maybe you won't remember a few pages later but I guess that's his style.
I really enjoyed it very much beyond the little details that made it long and slow to read.
