https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82434.Saving_Francesca
she writes boys you wish you had dated when you were sixteen.
not now - now i would see through a line like that in a heartbeat, but at sixteen?
soon.marchetta's strength is in her characters.
and that's in response to all of it: why can't i write like her?
and i am full of envy, even though these characters kind of go through some shitty times.i want to be capable like abby lockhart.
there is a lot i could learn from these books.she doesn't write the ideal - these aren't brady bunch characters, but they are just that much better than me.
It’s a fast-read with interesting themes.
The fictional St. Sebastian’s school is a strong setting.
There are quite a few characters introduced to us, and they all have their different roles to play, but most of them remain somewhat mysterious or not at all unique throughout the plot.The mental illness theme is explored considerably well.
The plot acts a bit like a mystery one, in the sense that we do not know what is wrong with Francesca’s mother until the end.
Boring romance and friendship, but interesting setting, powerful themes and 3D heroine.Blog | Youtube | Twitter | Instagram | Google+ | Bloglovin’
Nobody in my class at school liked Looking for Alibrandi and I thought for awhile that maybe it was because we actually went to an Australian high school and nobody wanted to read a book pretty much depicting their own existence.Which is what Marchetta does because I went to school with pretty much every high school character she's ever written.
If you haven't read this, not that that's a problem because I feel like the last person in the world to jump on the Marchetta bandwagon, then please do.I cried while reading this book.
Between the beautiful Edward Cullens and the sexy Salvatore brothers of today's young adult literature, it's easy to see why teenage girls think they're doing something wrong when all they get is Rob with the mullet who likes to fart and swear in the classroom.
That's what I like so much about this book...
But Melina Marchetta takes a simple, exhausted idea and uses her excellent writing and multi-faceted characters to create something unique, entertaining and completely moving.
This is the first Melina Marchetta book I've read and it definitely won't be the last.
Updated 6/29/2016Nobody writes friendships and dialogue quite like Melina Marchetta.Weird attitude towards anti-depressants though.
I've been claiming for a long time that this novel was my favorite by Marchetta, but it's not true any more.
Original reviewWithin just a few days (and books) Melina Marchetta has become one of my favorite YA writers.
Saving Francesca is about Francesca's journey to find her strength and save herself from despair, to find friendships in the most unexpected places and maybe love.The book covers all familiar topics from Marchetta's other novels.
:::4 Stars:::*Wipes tears* This author gets me every time.Okay, twice. She got me twice. I’ve read two of her books. But that only means there’s more of her brilliance to enjoy...Oh, yeahhh Saving Francesca  is a very touching and gentle read that centers not only on common themes such as family, friendship, and love—but thoroughly explores the heartaches of depression and the toll it can take on a family as a whole. I’ve read many books where the narrator/main protagonist suffers a mental disor
Much of this story takes place at a new school, consisting of mostly boys, where Francesca is attending.
Francesca is a complex and memorable character.
The “romance” in this book felt more like an insinuation: Gentle, slow-to-build, but very sweet and promising.
It’s witty and profound, and glides with an effortless rhythm that made me stop and whisper “wow” a few times.
▪  Genre/Category: Young Adult/Contemporary▪ Romance: Sweet and gentle▪  Characters: Well drawn out and lovable▪  Plot: A teenaged girl must figure how to live and find herself in the cloud of her mother’s depression.
My thoughts after reread  : My WHAT? My THOUGHTS? Are you kidding me? Do I look like I'm able to think? Francesca. Tara. Will. Jimmy. Luca. Mia. Bob the builder. Tom. You ruined me for life, you know that? Dysfunctional. Hysterical. Bastards. Endearing. Unforgettable. Real.➡ I didn't know anything about how fantastic realistic fiction could be before meeting these characters a year ago. Saving Francesca is so... clever - nothing feels forced, and it becomes magical when I feel as if everything
Real.➡ I didn't know anything about how fantastic realistic fiction could be before meeting these characters a year ago.
It's freaking awesome.That's just life.I'm always wary when I open a contemporary book.
When a character acts like a fool in a paranormal book, I'm actually pretty clement.
But in a book which is supposed to picture the real life?
I actually stopped many times to say "Exactly!" out loud (to be frank, I said "Exactement!").Here : "I'd read fantasy if they had simple names like Jane and Bob from Wagga," I said.
I never expect to cry when I read a young-adult book.
4.5 stars Just ask how I'm feeling, I want to say. Just ask and I may tell you.But no one does. Chantal read a YA contemporary? And she liked it?? *shocked face*Melina Marchetta has become my queen of contemporary. First On the Jellicoe Road and now Saving Francesca. The woman can do no wrong. I still can’t fathom how she managed to make me this in love with characters in less than 250 pages. On the Jellicoe Road has a significantly higher rating on GR compared to Saving Francesca and I can see
I’m very different from Francesca, I don’t have any friends like hers, my family dynamics aren’t similar.
I think the last time I loved a friend group this much and wanted to be part of it so badly was while reading The Raven Cycle.
I think of the family down the road whose mother was having a baby and they went around the neighborhood saying, "We're pregnant." I want to go around the neighborhood saying, "We're depressed." If my mum can't get out of bed in the morning, all of us feel the same.
I recommend it to everyone, even to those who don't usually read the genre.And as for me, I feel a little less lonely than before I started the book.
After reading Saving Francesca by Melina Marchetta I’m convinced that this author can write a 500 page book about the different brands of toilet paper and I’d be glued to every page and every single word she has to share.
I loved it and I’ll be reading Francesca’s story over and over again.There were moments I laughed out loud, giggled like a goof and other times my eyes got misty and my heart felt a tug.
I loved this book and I hope others will give it a try and get to know Francesca and walk in her shoes.
Go read this book.---Okay, so I had a few hours to get my act together and, while I am still so very not ready or a review, there are a couple of things I think you should know.•Marchetta's writing may not be particularly exceptional per se, but it's like it is in the right place at the right time.
Marchetta is the only one.•This is a story about mental illness, yes, but it's also a story about loneliness, about growing up, about the gap between what you are, what you want to be and what the others think you are, about parents and about friends.
This book came highly recommended and I have to admit I put off getting it from my library for quite awhile because I prefer stories where there are a) supernatural creatures ravaging a town, b) dead bodies and angst, or c) any combination of a & b.
The winning characters in this novel, the story of Francesca, one of a handful of girls at a previously all-boys school, carry the novel all on their own, no dead bodies or fairies needed.
At the start of the book, Francesca is an underachiever and a nonparticipant in school friendships.
i cant believe i 3 starred this on my first read. im blocking @ fetus may she knew nothing~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Reread and buddy read  with this cupcake i literally forgot everything that takes place in this book but i stILL HAVE TO READ PIPER'S SON SO here we are
I thought she was a spineless brat for most of the book, and I understood why nobody really liked her in the beginning.Francesca is dealing with her mother's depression and also with starting a new school year at a recently female integrated all boys school.
I believe that people find strength from within and use their support group to bolster their reserves, not the other way around, so this whole plot point just didn't sit well with me.Francesca's new school life had such a soap opera-like feel to it; the catty girls, the awkward and dickhead boys, the mean teachers - it just all felt so contrived.
But nothing stood out; it was good, tight writing, but still sounded like the plotline of every other YA book I had ever read.
I wasn't feeling it so much with Will, to be honest, and even though I like them as a couple, and LOVE the fact that Marchetta wasn't afraid to portray Will as an imperfect teenage boy with issues, they're still not making it onto my list of Best Couples of all time.
I can't wait!!!)Melina Marchetta deserves every award she's gotten for this book, and more, for her accurate and hard-hitting portrayal of the effects of depression on a close-knit family.

;)I think I used to pursue only fantasy books because I thought I had to read about magic in order to have those magical transporting feelings, you might know the ones, like when Mathilda knocks over the glass with her mind and in the end stays with Miss Honey; like when Bran desperately reaches out with the crystal sword to cut the first blooming spray from the Midsummer tree; or how about when Amberle looks back at Wil and as he screams she reaches out to the Ellcrys and begins to transform; and especially like when Jenny Waynest jumps over the parapet to rise up on wings of pearl...ahh.My reading life has had some changes and painful realizations over the past several years.
It’s funny, it’s emotional, it also has some romance and many interesting topics very well covered.This novel it’s one of the best character-driven story I’ve read so far.
I felt for her at times, I sympathize with her at some point, I smiled or grinned with her and with her new friends and I totally can say she’s a character I would like to meet in RL.
All of them are characters you will want to meet in RL and to be friends with.“Saving Francesca” it’s not really a romance.
Consider yourself warned.In chemistry class during my senior year of high school, I learned my trio of guy friends had a code name for me, which was…wait for it…The Cheese.
In my case, I ended up in the IB/AP nerdy, goody-two-shoes, which disallowed speaking to my old friend with the religious, goody-two-shoes because, of course, we were like soooo different.
If I’d read this book in high school (or even middle school), it would have been a no-brainer five stars.
The people who know me around here, know that I have a hard time expressing my feelings about books I like.
No wait, I'm sorry, this is all wrong because I don't like this book.
Every single word on every single page.This was the first time that I didn't want to finish a book because I had so much fun reading it.
I felt really happy and really sad at the same time when I turned the last page.Many many thanks to all the Bookers who recommended this book to me.
THIS BOOK!!!!
AAAHHH THIS BOOK 💜💜 I loved, loved it so much!
To me it was such a powerful and emotional read.
I cried a couple times, I was just really feeling for Francesca.
I was feeling WITH Francesca.
One of the best things to me in this book was the gang; Justine, Tara, Siobhan, Jimmy, Thomas.
Such wonderful, beautiful friendships I can't even 💜 The thing is, I don't like emotionally heavy books and this book really wasn't.
I can't remember how many times I cracked up!
I'll definitely re-read this one.
If anyone knows similar books like this, pleeease please send recommendations!!!!AMAZING!!!
BLESS YOU ALL FOR PUSHING THIS BOOK AND FOR MAKING SURE I'M NOT THE LAST AUSSIE TO DEVOUR A MARCHETTA BOOK.  Because I just want to wrap this book up and frame it.The thing with living in a country that's become rather Americanised is that you often forget the talent that's right under your nose. Like Marchetta. I remember reading 2 other books of hers back when I was young but despite it ironically being my most impressionable years, I was rather underwhelmed. Perhaps I just stared at words a
I'm not trying to make a dig at YA (it's obviously my literary category of choice) but let's get real here: it's tropes, tropes, hot guys and love nowadays.
The friendship in Saving Francesca felt so bloody real, palpable, honest and heartbreaking.
How could you be so beautiful and confusing and touching and shy and so, so fucking real?
Her personal family is portrayed with such a vulnerability and it breaks my heart.
It's omnipresent, it's consumes Francesca, just like your family should.
DAMMIT I LOVE AND HATE THIS BOOK.
Sweet, painful, truehearted little book.I concluded in my review of The Boyfriend List that regular high school shenanigans young adult bores me without zombies or faeries or whatever.
I submit instead that high school shenanigans bore me (hang on, this really is a different argument).
See, okay, it’s not like I didn’t have high school shenanigans.
people problems.So my new theory: I’m not bored by high school problems books when they don’t have a fantasy element.
And there are also high school shenanigans.
How does she do it?How does she write a story so beautiful and captivating that it makes me want to crawl inside the book and hug all the characters and tell them how much I adore them?How does she wrap topics like friendship, family, love and coming of age into one amazing story that leaves me grinning like a dork, puts warmth in my heart and tears in my eyes?How does Melina Marchetta do it?
Just like when I started reading Jellicoe Road I thought at first "Why all this fuzz?" but then, all of the sudden, it was like lightning struck me and I was completely sucked in and I couldn’t stop reading because I loved it just so much.
these goddamn dorks i am so emotionalreread #1: finished 00:10am, 21/12/15i am a fucking messreread #2: 4/9/18it literally took me three years to read this again im useless,,
So many YA authors have a cute idea with a less than perfect execution. Haven’t we all read and thought of ways to improve upon it? Or perhaps write your own? But then you come across (I’m guessing anything written by) Melina Marchetta and you realize that writing is more than just a good idea. It’s a talent and a gift that is really only bestowed upon a few people. This is only my second novel by Marchetta. The first was On the Jellicoe Road and to tell the truth, I was nervous to read anything
But then you come across (I’m guessing anything written by) Melina Marchetta and you realize that writing is more than just a good idea.
The first was On the Jellicoe Road and to tell the truth, I was nervous to read anything else by her.
Jelicoe was so freaking good, I didn’t want to suffer the letdown of discovering Marchetta to be less than perfect.
But after reading Saving Francesca….
Coming of age story, romance, friendship, parents ~ everything you expect from a YA book.
Hmmm… go out and read this book, read it now =)
William Trombol doesn't like to be put in his place.Saving Francesca has everything I love about Marchetta's books: authentic teen characters, some pretty humorous dialogue, an honest and touching plot, amazing character development, no stupid tropes, no slut-shaming (well, there is, but it's challenged) and no annoying stereotypes.
I loved the experience of seeing the world from her point of view.Life isn't easy for Francesca from the moment the book begins.
I feel like in quite a few YA books, the parents are either almost completely absent, or only included in a shallow or stereotypical kind of way.
I didn't know too much about the book going into it so I thought it was going to be a fun jaunt into Australian high school life and basically fluff.
Contrary to the idea you get from the cover art,this book deals with serious issues, namely Francesca's transition into the school while her mother is suffering from debilitating depression, her father is trying to keep the family together, and she is evaluating her friendship and personality situations--does she have any true friends, what actually matters to her, etc.
I felt emotionally invested in the book and I thought the writing was fabulous.
Saving Francesca was one of my favourite contemporaries growing up.  “Do something that scares you everyday.”  Marchetta's wonderfully written Saving Francesca offers a realistic, touching, and sensitive take on:… what it’s like to have a mentally ill parent. Living and growing up with a mentally ill parent is hard, especially when you’re a teenager struggling with the obstacles of adolescence (ha, don’t we all miss those). Saving Francesca is an accurate portrayal of how a parent battling depre
Marchetta's wonderfully written Saving Francesca offers a realistic, touching, and sensitive take on:… what it’s like to have a mentally ill parent.
Saving Francesca is an accurate portrayal of how a parent battling depression affects the whole family.
… what it’s like to be part of an Italian family.
I feel like I don’t really need to elaborate here but a word of advice: Italian grandmothers do not take kindly to other people stealing their famous recipes.
Let’s have a minute of silence for the people who cannot tell Leo Tolstoi from Leo Trotzki, and for us being friends and loving them anyway.
I think she gets that Francesca mostly doesn’t know or appreciate what she has and this story is kind of her journey to learning to appreciate people.
Part of my problem, I think, is that I am left feeling like this book is a debate over whether Francesca’s feelings are valid or not.
And I think part of the point of the story is, Francesca, look at the people around you who are not surrounded by so much love.
I don’t think us acting like brats has to do with whether we have a hard home life.
After re-reading this paragraph, I'm left thinking that is probably how people feel about me, too.
I want to thank all of my friends who incessantly pushed this book towards me.Once upon a time I read Saving Francesca and I abandoned it. I had this impression that was completely different from what the story is truly all about. And I wasn't sure if I'm going to like that idea I built. Now I'm so glad I gave it another chance. I love the family love, friendship goals and the portrayal of depression.
