https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6304335-beautiful-creatures
Turns out the most appreciated aspects of the book were: an original love story told from a male POV (compare it to those other romances told from whiny girls' POVs), truly original paranormal lore, and small town Southern setting.
I think the book would have been better if told in 3rd person, at least the writers' inability to channel a voice of a 16-year old boy would have been somewhat concealed.As for Southern small town feel, I am pretty sure even Charlaine Harris writes it better in her trashy vampire books.
it is a huge book that is very densely plotted, for teen fiction, which would ordinarily be a good thing if it weren't so shallowly conceived.
it just seems like a lot of pressure to be put on them.on the one hand - it is cool to have a male protagonist in a teen love story; most of then ones i have read are still goofy girls pining after unworthy boys.
this is also the second book i have recently read in which telepathy occurs between the lovers.
conceptually, i thought it was a great idea, and with some adjustments, maybe it could have been better.
Phew, I am so glad that's over. I can't believe I actually made it through all those pages, I'm sure I wouldn't have done if I hadn't set myself the challenge of reading every monthly book club read chosen by one of my groups. Ugh. Seriously, just ugh. I have read some dismal books in the young adult paranormal genre, books that have been boring or annoying or have offended me, but I think I can honestly say this is up there with some of the worst books I've ever read. Everything about this boo
I couldn't even concentrate on the story for the most part because I kept picturing Ethan as a thirty-something woman.There are some things I'm going to rant about that may not have bothered me several years ago before Twilight came along, waving its cliche banners, and I appreciate that some people might find this slightly unfair seeing as this novel was released four years before 
So, let's get the whole "this is like every other paranormal young adult book" thing out of the way.
No one likes a boring read and it's especially annoying when the book is nearly 600 pages long.
"Mortals. I envy you. You think you can change things. Stop the universe. Undo what was done long before you came along. You are such beautiful creatures."  Doesn't that line just give you the shivers?!?!?!?I doubt that they are people who will read this and not have a big impression. What am I saying?! I mean a  HUGE  impression. You know when you read a book and just immerse yourself in it? I'm sure most of you know the feeling. I kept reading into the night having no semblance of sleep,and s
This book has mystery (a lot of it), Southern culture (a character in itself), magic (like you have never seen before), and one of the best romances I've seen lately (no joke).
One little teeny irk: I doubt Ethan would notice way too much about what everybody was wearing, but I guess how else were we suppose to know?
Some things I could see coming because you know it really could never end another way.
Basically this is a story of a boy who loves a girl but it's with the extra touch of magic.Later note: Found out there is a sequel!
I was down a hand for I had to use my left index finger to clamp down on my left eyelid in order to stop the twitching that began around page 65 of Beautiful Creatures.
Big granny could tell you everything there was to know about Southern style architecture, felt the world would end if she ran a few minutes late, and loved Gone With the Wind.
I bid you my blurb.“Beautiful Creatures is freakishly weird, nonsensical, and plot-less tome that will leave your eye twitching long after you have turned the last page.”
Teenagers. Everything is so apocalyptic.  Truer words have never been spoken.Ethan lives in Gatlin and which is just about the most boring town in existence.  Well...until Old Man Ravenwood's niece shows up in the company of a wolf and driving a hearse. Things suddenly got a lot more interesting.There's just something so...ethereal...about Lena. The way she moves, the way she talks, her hopes and fears and loves - Ethan knows right away: Lena wasn't just some girl you took to the last three row
The way she moves, the way she talks, her hopes and fears and loves - Ethan knows right away:
Sarcasm aside, I was actually really taken with this story.)Within a few days Ethan finds himself falling hopelessly and helplessly in love.
But this isn't solely a love story.
I've stopped listening to this book twice now solely cause it was just
Another note: The song "Sixteen Moons" floats in and out of this book several times and the audiobook went above and beyond.I absolutely motherfreaking love it when I listen to audiobooks that takes lyrics and creates songs for us.
Three words; unique, epic & addictiveWow. I mean really, wow.
It's so much more easier for me to give reasons why I don't like something, rather than try to explain why I do.
I mean, I don't know why I like something.
However, you needed that back story.
Something that's not evident a lot in YA fiction, is family involvement.
Beautiful Creatures has a lot of family involvement, which I loved.Maybe I do know why I liked it!
The whole story was just fascinating, I just loved it, every small aspect.
I've heard people complain that Ethan is unrealistic.
Link is also easy to like- I like how loyal he is to Ethan, and I also like his post-grunge personality & sense of style.The story itself is steeped in Southern decadence and eeriness.
At times, the story was slightly biased in its attitude towards Southerners and Christians, but I understand why the authors wrote the town in this way: they were trying to tell a story of what it is like to be an outcast, to be hated and feared for what you are.
If you want to get lost in a story with vivid characters and powerful imagery with meaning, then I would strong suggest reading this novel and its sequels.
This was one of the worst books I have ever read. Even with two authors it failed to satisfy me. The story is overloaded with cliches. The characters are all... nothing. Ugh... I wish Goodreads had a "Hated it so much that a part of me just died" star. A "Didn't like it" star ridicules my feelings towards this... book.Utter nonsense.
Gorgeous, dark, lush, and gothic.
It's so refreshing to read a paranormal romance told from the point of view of the guy, and Ethan is a fantastic narrator.
Through his eyes, Gatlin comes alive in all its small town glory, full of whispers and secrets and prejudices (the Civil War tidbits are so interesting).
Ethan + Lena makes for sexy and sweet romance.
Amma, Ethan's no-nonsense grandmother, is an awesome character.
And this line gives me goosebumps every time I read it: "Mortals.
I envy you.
You think you can change things.
Stop the universe.
Undo what was done long before you came along.
Sure there are times when it's repetitive and there's quite a few inconsistencies (where someone would say or do something and then contradict it a few pages later) and there were times when I had no idea what was going on (like where Ethan maybe almost had a heartache I guess and I thought it was some psychedelic love scene until it was explained at the end), but there are also moments of brilliance, in writing.
This book had all three, so while the suspense ended up being decent by the end (after a lot of dragging), I wasn't crazy about where it was going.Speaking of freedom of choice, I never felt that Ethan and Lena fell in love.
:)
This isn’t even funny, I enjoy reading from the male perspective, I find it interesting and it’s a shame that not a lot of YA books are from a male perspective, but if you do not know what you’re doing.
I didn’t sit on the edge of my seat or bite my lip, or shake the book and be like “Why can’t I read faster?!” (I really do that.) There was also this Guardian Angel club petition thing at their school...
Unlike most YA books, it is written in the point of view of a teenage male, but the authors trying to put themselves in a teenage boy's shoes mostly involved talking about how hot some cheerleaders were at the school.
So much so that at the end, I wondered why I bothered wasting my time on reading this book when there are so many other more interesting things to do.
Also at the most crucial moment when the plot is meant to take off, the authors throws us into a random, unimportant, and rather frustrating side track in the form of a surprise party.
“The right thing and the easy thing are never the same.”  I don't know why I read this book. Beautiful Creatures sounds promising at first just like Twilight, a forbidden love story where two souls find each other in the darkest moment of their lives. But I didn't like Ethan, he's uninteresting and can't even deliver the story properly. That made this book so boring and I didn't want to continue around the half way through it. Anyway, I wanted to know about that little riddle about the curse an
I don't know why I read this book.
Beautiful Creatures sounds promising at first just like Twilight, a forbidden love story where two souls find each other in the darkest moment of their lives.
That made this book so boring and I didn't want to continue around the half way through it.
What I found out at the end was very disappointing I didn't want to continue this series.
Will I read the next book?
Even though I already bought the first three books, I feel like this is a bummer and I don't want to waste my time on this series anymore.
I loved that this book didn’t have the typical paranormal creature (vampire, werewolf, etc…) and I was even more intrigued by the deep family and town history that played a huge role in the story, so needless to say I had to read this one.
With Ethan being mortal and not knowing how to break the spell before Lena’s sixteen, conflict and danger are constantly threatening to separate the two, along with both of their families not approving of their relationship and of course, time.This book was such a delight to read.
But, before i'm gonna go all ballistic, and talk about how much i didn't enjoy reading Beautiful Creatures, i'm gonna say what this book is about for those who don't know.
So the main protagonist is Ethan, he dreams of this girl that he doesn't know ( more like has nightmares).
Then one day he goes to school, and hears there is a 'new hot chick', when he sees her, he somehow knows it's the girl from his dreams.
But who cares right?Overall, Beautiful Creatures wasn't a big disappointment to me, because i had a feeling i wouldn't like this book.
The pacing was kind of slow for me, but I think seeing the movie before reading the book really affected how the story played out.
But I still enjoyed this story!It took me a long time to get to these books because I thought it would be another Twilight: a new kid comes to a small town and there's some intense attraction between two teens (one of whom has some paranormal quality), but they can't be together because of reasons.
Lots of plot twists ensue...The story really takes the time to build a rich world!
My blurb (sent to the editors of the book): “Beautiful Creatures is gorgeously crafted, atmospheric, and original. I devoured it.”
Really liked this book! Such a cool world & magic system, with great characters and a rich, vibrant setting! It took me a little while to really get into the story, and the ending was a bit anti-climatic, but I'm very much looking forward to continuing the series! I really enjoyed the relationship between Ethan and Lena and I can't wait to see where it goes next!
MOVIE UPDATEso i just watched the movie adaptation last night and i liked it!
the lead actor had the corniest, most syrupy Southern accent possible yet was a goofy delight to watch - that kid was great, whoever he is.
the lead actress had a good look.
what an actress!okay here is my fascinating & epic original review from 8/25/10:supernaturally-themed YA offering, with an unusual central character: the protagonist is a perfectly regular teenage male, not an outcast or outsider nor a young lady meeting the sexy supernatural stranger of her dreams.
the atypical audience identification point is striking and both this central characterization and the atmosphere of a decaying southern town are thoughtfully rendered.
I acquired a copy of Beautiful Creatures at ALA from a teen who was my super hero.
She had an extra copy and gave one to me and so I have to say Thankyouthankyouthankyou to you (I'm sorry I don't know your name) for your random act of kindness that I will pay forward.
I love the style of writing and the authors have created characters that are real and people you want to care about.
I'm a little more than half way through and I'm getting concerned because the book is going to end soon!!!
It's made me laugh becuase these ladies have it dead on especially when the Aunts discover there are computers at the library.
They made a schlocky movie out of an equally schlocky book and you guessed it right--
I know, most people say the opposite thing, but I'm glad I can't recall everything form the movie, it made the book so much more interesting.
I knew the ending, but all the other details were fussy, so this was kind of like a refresher - just way more detailed and so much better that the movie.I really enjoyed the narration - the fact that this book was written by two women and still the male protagonist was so true and realistic just blew me away!The humor and the writing style was so addicting, I caught myself a few times mimicking the sarcasm.I must say this was an unexpected jewel.And quoting my friend Deedi: "Do not watch the movie!!" "Ugh the movie murdered this book"
SUN, APRIL 18 at 2 pm - Meet Kami & Margie at Borders Glendale (CA)RSVP here: http://bit.ly/grbeautifulcBeautiful Creatures is exactly what I aspire to be as a human being: pretty, funny, and smart all in one package.
Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl have written a seamless and utterly absorbing tale of a cursed romance: a Mortal boy who falls for a Caster girl in a small Southern town.
The music and sound effects (particularly for the dream sequences) in the audiobook version add yet another dimension to the Gothic atmosphere the authors have built.Another book for the loaner shelf*.- - -12/7/09 observation...
Let's see what # they hit next week (currently 1733 with 128 currently-reading)12/9/09 watching it...
It took me longer than it should have to read Beautiful Creatures, mostly because I kept re-reading passages (and sometimes entire sections) just to savor that southern *feel* that the authors captured so incredibly well. From the language to the characters to the settings, I felt like I was part of Ethan and Lena's journey as they navigated their way toward her 16th birthday. I relished every moment I spent with this lush gothic tale.
Got to page 110.
Here's my beef.Ethan sounds like a woman--or a very, very, feminine man.
And, tell me, what 17 year old boy has a thing against blondes?
To me, he sounded like a petty woman.
Golly knows it's a small town and secrets are impossible to keep secret.My buddy Ethan accepts talking voices in his head.
Maybe I'm weird.) Ethan wants to be buddies with Lena, even though she tells him to get lost(via planting message in his head).
Wonder how many more complaints I would have found had I read 400 more pages.
So i started reading this book because i watched half of the movie and i was like?
And it has like so many books in the series, so it might be good.
I think narrator wise it's a bit of fresh air since it's a teenage guy instead of a teenage girl, but it's pretty much still whiny as hell.
And when he was like "I'm in love with a girl from my dream" i literally rolled my eyes so hard it hurts my head a little.In a nutshell this book is whiny, bad, boring, too fucking long, a waste of time, and a cliche hell.
The focus of the story was the romance between Ethan and Lena - a mortal and a Caster, two star-crossed lovers separated by their predetermined fate and a small southern town trying to tear them apart.The last hundred pages or so of this novel were amazing.
They might exist, but I think the authors went a bit overboard in attempting to make Ethan the perfect boyfriend.Looking forward to the sequel, Beautiful Darkness.*edit as of 2/17/2013: I regret my choice of words when I first wrote this review, because it makes me sound sexist and stereotypical.
I don't think Ethan was unrealistic (now) because of his actions, rather, merely because he was seemingly perfect.
If it were 300 pages shorter, I would have given it a solid three stars.Sure, the plot line isn't amazing, the characters aren't incredibly complex or unique, and the romance is NAUSEATING (as if I want to read about the desperate, idiotic love between two sixteen year-olds!) but it's not a bad story!
The idea of Casters and their different abilities is an interesting one, the Southern Gothic setting is kind of cool (even though the accents were often inconsistent and oh, Ethan and Lena just so happened not to have them and the authors sort of hinted that it was because they were intellectually superior to the rest of the people in town) and most of the characters (with the exception of Ethan freaking Wate) are enjoyable!
