https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34390820-two-kinds-of-truth
To have the ability to write such a long series with every book being as good if not better than the last, is very rare....The characters in this series are so extremely well developed, I really feel as though I have a personal relationship with Harry....
end it is so nice to get to spend some time with him at least once a year....and it is even better when his half brother Mickey joins him....
I do also want to mention that all the secondary characters are as well developed, and it is always fun when they make an appearance....Can’t wait for the next book in this fabulous series!
There are additional vibes that suggest they think Harry and his now dead partner, Frank Sheehan, were responsible for serious misconduct that resulted in this miscarriage of justice.
However, this turns out to be wide of the mark as Bosch and the SFPD follow up on a complaint made by the dead son about a clinic and the pharmacy's role in a pill shills scam run by the wanted Santos, and Russian criminal elements using desperate and vulnerable enslaved prescription drugs addicts.
At the same time, Preston Borders and his lawyer, Lance Cronyn, point the finger at Bosch as a corrupt officer who planted the evidence that convicted Borders.
In the midst of this, Bosch and his team have a real case to work.
I became a fan of Harry Bosch nineteen years ago and have aged right along with him (sigh).
I shudder to think that there might come a day when Michael Connelly will stop writing about Harry Bosch.
Harry Bosch is a man with character (no pun intended).
If you haven’t read a Harry Bosch mystery by Michael Connelly, I suggest you do so, as I have a feeling you’ll love him as much as I do.
But he often found himself at odds with his bosses for one reason or another, and after almost forty years of service, he left the department under less than amicable circumstances.Now in his middle sixties, Harry is working part-time for the tiny San Fernando P.D., specializing in cold cases.
Thirty years earlier, Bosch investigated the murder of a young woman who had been sexually assaulted and strangled.
Much more important, re-examination of the physical evidence in the case has turned up a DNA sample showing that the woman's assailant was actually a man who had been convicted of a similar crime and who has recently died.
Michael Connelly has been hard at work to bring readers another instalment in the Harry Bosch series.
Perfect for series fans who enjoy a little Bosch with their mystery.I have long been a Michael Connelly fan and this novel helps support that claim.
It is a successful author who can juggle a series for as long as Connelly has kept Bosch going without allowing things to go stale.
I can see Bosch continuing his strong reign within the crime thriller genre, helped by the superior writing of Michael Connelly.
Surely Haller fans with also enjoy what the author has done in this meshing story.Kudos, Mr. Connelly, for this wonderful piece.
4.5 rounded up to 5 starsThis is book 20 in the Harry Bosch series and I recommend that you read them in order. This is one of the best police procedural series. Harry is working on 2 cases in this book and he does solve them with help from old/current partners and his lawyer brother. It all comes together in a very satisfying ending. I raced through this library book in 2 days.
This is the 20th book in the highly successful Harry Bosch series and even after reading all the previous books the series still feels fresh with no sign of the high standard dropping.Michael Connelly is my favourite author, he rarely disappoints and this is no exception.
Great characters, well paced plot and exceptional writing.Now in his sixties Harry Bosch is working cold cases for the San Fernando Police Department and is called out to a local drug store where a young pharmacist has been murdered.
At the same time an old case from when Bosch was LAPD resurfaces when a long-imprisoned killer claims Harry framed him, and seems to have new evidence to prove it.
In one plot string, Bosch is at risk of being discredited due to new DNA evidence in a case that he had investigated that led to a convict sitting on death row for over 30 years.
In the other story, Bosch gets involved in an investigation that delves deep into the depravity of those involved in perpetuating the opioid crisis — I expect Connelly’s depiction of addiction and the exploitation of addicts is based on sound research and it’s bone chilling.
This could probably be read as a standalone, but it’s a lot richer if you’re familiar with the series.
Having read Michael Connelly’s books for years, I’ve recently started watching the Bosch television series, developed by Amazon.
Having recently read, and very much enjoyed, Connelly’s recent book featuring a new character -  The Late Show (Renée Ballard #1) – I was beginning to think that Harry Bosch and his crew might have been finally put out to grass.
Now is it me being cynical or might this be linked to the fact that not only does Welliver read the audio version I listened to (and he does an excellent job!) but it’s Edgar who partners Bosch in all episodes of the television series produced to date.
With no one having his back at the LAPD, Harry seems to be drifting into some seriously deep waters here.
Will all his other previous cases be up for scrutiny as well?Harry doesn't even have the time to walk this around in his mind when a call comes into the station that two pharmacists have been murdered under some very questionable circumstances.
Michael Connelly presents another top-notch Harry Bosch book in this stellar series.
Connelly parallels his storylines with the reality of real-life crimes and the dastardly figures that walk the streets of Any Town USA.
3.5 starsDetective Harry Bosch worked for the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) for more than three decades before he retired.
Not happy being a 'man of leisure' Harry took a volunteer job with the tiny San Fernando Police Department (SFPD), looking into cold cases.
The shooting was meant to look like a robbery gone wrong, but evidence points to deliberate cold-blooded murder.....and Lourdes takes lead on the case.
Harry's usually on the outs with one or more LAPD honchos.)Luckily Harry's half-brother is attorney Mickey Haller - who's probably the smartest, craftiest lawyer in Los Angeles.
Another homerun Harry Bosch novel.
I don't call this a "guilty pleasure," as some literati might imagine it to be.
Michael Connelly is the premier writer of literary police procedurals.
The result is today's most interesting, flawed and deeply conflicted police protagonist--and his intense, cerebral crime detecting.
In Two Kinds of Truth, the two separate conflicts/crimes involve trafficking and slavery of the elderly and disabled for opioid gathering and distribution and the possible tampering of sealed evidence of rape that could let a rapist go free.Another recommendation if you have the slightest interest in criminal procedurals or police thrillers.
He’s supposed to be working cold cases as a volunteer for the San Fernando Police Department, same as he has been for the past two years after retiring from the Los Angeles Police Department under less than optimal circumstances.
With much help from his half brother, defense attorney Mickey Haller, Harry goes to war, not only to keep a killer where he belongs, but to defend himself and the truth, despite evidence to the contrary.
So at the risk of repeating myself, I’ll simply say this is one of his best books yet featuring Harry Bosch, with a generous part in the story for his half brother, Mickey Haller.
I find it amazing that Michael Connelly continues to come up with fascinating stories time after time.
Harry is working on two unrelated cases.
One is a current homicide in San Fernando where he’s working as a volunteer and the other is review of a case from his past.
The current case looks to be the work tied to the opioid crisis.
And not only is this a good story, you also feel like you get a better handle on how the whole painkiller “industry” works.
Great interaction between Bosch and Haller.
But in this case, I side with Haller.
Harry Bosch fans, rejoice!
As always, Harry is also trying to save the forgotten abused dreamers and victims of Hollywood--scenarios that are all too real given recent news about Harvey Weinstein and others.There is a bit of general chat about politics which takes away from the book.
Not much, but the return to the plot and subplots is a relief after these detours.Connelly's Bosch series triumphs because Harry is so humane--he is the hero (heroes doubt themselves and are effective because they feel fear)--like those we know or hope to know in real life, and to be ourselves.
Harry Bosch is back, leading us down a thrilling path with some cold cases but also a new one, in which he proves that old dogs can learn new tricks when he works with the DEA as a murder branches in several directions!
Bosch is still hard-hitting, take no prisoners with his approach to the law,and finds himself in hot water over a 30 year old case in which the criminal is on death row.
I suggest any lover of crime fiction, police procedural and intense suspense grab a copy of this book, you will be breathless until the end...
Two Kinds of Truth is my third Michael Connelly novel. The first was The Lincoln Lawyer(because of the movie) the second was The Late Show. I enjoyed both of those books but The Late Show was my favorite. Because of that I had high hopes for this book but it turned out to be just average and slightly blah. Harry Bosch is your run of the mill rough around the edges, good cop who can do no wrong and always gets his man. Like I said Blah! No rec.
Harry Bosch is still volunteering at the San Fernando Police Department (SFPD), working cold cases and helping with any new homicides.
I loved everything about this story with two intriguing cases that Harry is trying to navigate simultaneously.
Jerry Edgar makes an appearance, as well as Mickey Haller and it just doesn’t get any better with this team working with Harry again.
I’m also watching the television series and loving that, too (binged through it all).
Having Titus Welliver narrate this story worked so well as he’s completely taken over as my image of Harry.
Harry Bosch is getting older (& grumpier!) in Michael Connelly's latest police procedural.
This time Harry investigates two cases, one involving his half brother & lawyer Micky Haller & one has Harry investigating a double murder & taking on a role a little different to his usual one.
It's a good read, but (like Connelly's previous novel The Late Show) it's not a great one.
After so many novels it's not surprising that the author is running out of ideas.
Is it really time for the legendary Harry Bosch to call it a day ?
The case leads Harry and his detectives into the dark world of opiates--both the big money of pill mills and the sad, cold side of addiction.
Reading a Bosch novel is like picking up with an old friend, and this one is no different.
(See, it's like being old friends!)And, of course, we can't forget the actual story, which, in usual Connelly style is excellent and tracks along flawlessly along Bosch's own journey.
The opiate tale is both fascinating and depressing, while Bosch's unraveling of the backstory behind the reopened cold case will certainly keep you reading.
This is Harry Bosch book number 22. What could I possibly say about Harry that hasn’t been said before? It’s a fine addition to the series, and I enjoyed it. I did have a sense of melancholy during the end of the book, and I think that’s because Harry wasn’t satisfied with the conclusions of his cases. He was also thinking about mothers, his own and two that were involved in his cases, and how they differed. That added to the melancholy.
And the other, malleable truth of politicians, charlatans, corrupt lawyers, and their clients, bent and molded to serve whatever purpose was at hand.”It has been a while since I read a Harry Bosch novel and I am glad to see that Michael Connelly is still writing great stories.
Totally different from reviewing files from cold cases.In the meantime the case to vacate Preston Borders conviction proceeds and there are hints that Harry and his now deceased partner, Frank Sheehan, were responsible for serious misconduct that resulted in this miscarriage of justice.
The Preston Borders case will have a direct impact on Harry's reputation.
The deepening investigation into the murders led to the Russians and a huge prescription drug racket.Meanwhile Harry was approached by the department he’d left some years previously about an old case he vividly remembered – the killer he’d put away was still on death row – and the information he was given was that he’d made a mistake.
The killer who’d been on death row for thirty years was claiming he’d been framed – and that Harry was the one who had framed him.
It occurred to me as I was listening to Michael Connelly's latest Harry Bosch book, Two Kinds of Truth how similar Bosch is to Anthony Horowitz character Christopher Foyle of Foyle's War. In a world that seems in constant disarray it is comforting to find a protagonist that always opts for doing the "right thing".The Harry Bosch series has over the years provided a high level of performance that other writers have not been able to keep up.
There hasn't been one book that has disappointed but the have been some that where outstanding.
This review was originally posted on The Pfaeffle Journal
Not a complaint at all, but only to note that just "for me" it was approaching a Mickey Haller more than a Harry Bosch within those long periods for "set up".
Other than a debut author or two, and I believe one of them was English- the writers who get the overlaps of real time police work are mightily scarce as the old cliche of "hen's teeth".There was a spell of frenetic tension here where Harry goes undercover for a short period.
Suffice it to add that they are both in the mix and Mickey to such an extent that this could be labeled as a Bosch/Haller for both series.
Another book that already has a kabillion reviews so I just wanted to say one thing. I've been in a bit of a reading slump lately. I picked up & put down several, unable to find something that grabbed me. So I thought I'd go back to a series I've followed for years to see if that would break my streak. Thanks, Harry.
This mystery series is one of my very favorites; Connelly has managed to create an authentic, likeable main character in Harry Bosch and has successfully provided him with a career path that lends itself to interesting cases and story lines.
In Two Kinds of Truth, Harry starts out revisiting a cold case for the San Fernando Police Department.
I managed to successfully survive this one and still completely love the book.) As the story progresses, Harry works to clear his name in the one case and attempts to resolve the other two.
The other part of Two Kinds of Truth that I loved was the resolution of the cold case Harry was pursuing.
The other story involves Harry, with Mickey Haller's help and investigator, trying to figure out how the DNA match to a dead convict and finding an old mentor to come back from the dead.Connelly's social commentary is always interesting, from the book's title to publicizing the widespread, high-dollar world of prescription drug abuse, where law enforcement is falling down.
Michael Connelly's Two Kinds of Truth is another fine installment in the on-going Harry Bosch series.
At the same time, he is informed new evidence in a thirty year old murder seems to exonerate the convict on death row and the justice system is contemplating setting the man free - a man Bosch knows is guility.
While Bosch knows the man is guilty, those lining up on the other side, including his former partner Lucia Soto, are just as confident in the man's perceived innocence, which leads to an interesting search for the truth.
Fans of Connelly will enjoy this installment.
RATING: 5 STARS(Review Not on Blog)Listened to on audioI have been saving this book for when I needed a Bosch fix.
Two Kinds of Truth is like all of Harry's books in one.
She brings him bad news about one of his former solved cases.
As he gets the news, he and his partner are dispatched to a a double murder.
Harry knows he did everything by the book on that case, so he calls in his half-brother, Mickey Haller, for help.
I would highly recommend this series and this book is everything I love about this series and Harry!
