https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/410810.Notes_of_a_Native_Son
The white man takes the astonishment as tribute, for he arrives to conquer and to convert the natives, whose inferiority in relation to himself is not even to be questioned; whereas I, without a thought of conquest, find myself among a people whose culture controls me, has even, in a sense, created me, people who have cost me more in anguish and rage than they will ever know” My favourite essay in this book was probably the titular one, Notes of a Native Son. It was heartbreaking and touching.
I could tell that Baldwin was trying to understand and forgive his father, and let go of his anger; it was truly touching: “… I did not want to see him because I hated him.
This is my 3rd James Baldwin book this year.
into other books Baldwin has written.
These 'notes' are a collection of essays -- written when Baldwin was in his 20's during the 1940's and early 50's.
It was fascinating learning about Baldwin as a young man and his experiences being Black in America through the civil rights movement-- and steps forward.
James Baldwin writes beautiful.
James Baldwin articulates what it means to be a Black American and be an American --giving insight about the truth and struggles -- and how shameful these truths have been.
Powerful and precise as all of the essays are, Baldwin hits his stride with the titular piece, in which he embeds personal meditations on his father's death into a social analysis of the Harlem riot of 1943 and race relations in America. There's nothing else quite like it in the collection, though the essays about Paris in the third and final section are almost as brilliant.
To be a Negro in this country and to be relatively conscious, is to be in a rage almost all the time. So that the first problem is how to control that rage so that it won't destroy you.  - James Baldwin from "The Negro in American Culture", Cross Currents, XI (1961), p. 205In his dramatic and provocative short piece Notes of a Native Son (1955) included in the ten essay volume of the same title, Baldwin connects a series of coincidental events, unifying them in a brilliantly conceived aesthetic
Segmented in three parts, he reviews: an act of rage against a waitress in a restaurant; his father's death and his sister's birth; a race riot in Harlem, his father's burial and his 19th birthday.
In order really to hate white people one has to block so much out of the mind – and the heart – that this hatred becomes an exhaustive and self destructive pose.
These events deeply affected Baldwin who upon reflection sought a change from ill-will to good, to let go the demons and darkness that threatened to consume him - the hatred, bitterness, rage, violence, disillusionment, the social problems perpetuated by 'being Negro in America.'
Around this time last year friend Rowena and I did a buddy-read of this collection of Baldwin essays.
It doesn’t matter that I was born six years after the Civil Rights Act, that I never owned slaves or participated in Jim Crow – there is plenty for which I’m responsible in that inheritance of malfeasance that is made manifest - many times without me even being aware it is happening.After we finished the tandem read Rowena asked me here on GR if I planned on writing a review.
Society, it would seem, is a flimsy structure, beneath contempt, designed by and for all the other people, and experience is nothing more than sensation—so many sensations, added up like arithmetic, give one the rich, full life.I already know that I love James Baldwin's fiction (Giovanni's Room and If Beale Street Could Talk) so I am not surprised to feel similar about this collection of essays.
But, this being a collection, of course there was an uneven appreciation as compared to a complete, cohesive work.Notes of a Native Son are essays from the beginning of Baldwin's career; he divides the text into three main groupings: literary criticism, blackness, and identity.
Better known for works such as Go Tell It on the Mountain, James Baldwin's Notes of a Native Son (published 2 years later in 1955) is an important collection of essays which highlights issues Baldwin would continue to address. Subjects of his essays include his own home life, life in Harlem, the inequities of separate but equal treatment of blacks in 1940s and 50s America as well as his own experiences in France after WWII. Baldwin's prose still resonates and is relevant today.
Το πρώτο πράγμα που σημειώνει ο Baldwin στο Autobiographical notes είναι: I was born in Harlem.... Μια απλή και σύντομη φράση που όμως κατατοπίζει πλήρως τον αναγνώστη, κι εκείνον που πρώτη φορά έρχεται σε επαφή με τον συγκεκριμένο συγγραφέα, ως προς τη σημασία που έχει η κληρονομιά και το birthright στο έργο του.  It is difficult to make clear that he is not seeking to forfeit his birthright as a black man, but that, on the contrary, it is precisely this birthright which he is struggling to rec
Με την ανάληψη των λογοτεχνικών καθηκόντων του ο συγγραφέας οφείλει, σύμφωνα με τον Baldwin, να προσμετρήσει τους παραπάνω παράγοντες στο έργο του, να είναι living proof of his inheritance και να διεκδικήσει το birthright του ως μαύρος.
Στο εισαγωγικό κείμενο της συλλογής ο Baldwin ασχολείται και διερευνά το ζήτημα του συγγραφέα, με την αναγκαιότητα να γράφει την αλήθεια για τον κόσμο στον οποίο ζει κι από τον οποίο αφορμάται, να πηγαίνει στην πηγή του προβλήματος, πέρα από την επιφάνεια, και να εξετάζει τις συμπεριφορές, με τη δυσκολία του να είναι μαύρος συγγραφέας όταν το Negro problem δεν αντιμετωπίζεται όπως κατά τη γνώμη του πρέπει.
This collection of essays is a rarity by the fact that every essay is as good as the previous one. There are no duds in this collection. This is by far one of the best collections I've ever read. Baldwin's prose is just so astoundingly beautiful. I may be premature in saying this but I feel that this may be Baldwin's greatest work. A collection so important, so accessible, so unforgettable that not reading this would be an injustice to you and your bookshelf.
The matter of fact observation pointing out the old man permanently standing next to the communal toilet eating camembert struck me as particularly hilarious because it was so dryly noted and I was like that is so ridiculous it has to be true.
His writing is never showboaty although it is extremely finely crafted, no matter how fancy he gets it always serves his purpose in getting a point across (his skill allowing him to zero in on the heart of his themes/ideas with highest degree of nuance and perception).
I was racking my brains trying to come up with the words that will show you who Baldwin is, what he writes. Then I said, “You’re silly my girl, you can of course let him speak for himself”.What he has to say on seeing reality and working with it. How the present is a result of the past and how by denying the past, we deny the reality of us. It began to seem that one would have to hold in the mind forever two ideas which seemed to be in opposition. The first idea was acceptance, the acceptance, t
But this did not mean that one could be complacent, for the second idea was of equal power: that one must never, in one’s own life, accept these injustices as commonplace but must fight them with all one’s strength.
“People who shut their eyes to reality simply invite their own destruction, and anyone who insists on remaining in a state of innocence long after that innocence is dead turns himself into a monster”“Or, to put it another way, my inheritance was particular, specifically limited and limiting: my birthright was vast, connecting me to all that lives, and to everyone, forever.
The titular essay in this collection is phenomenal, one of the best I've ever read.
Everything is stirred into this smoking wok of anger and regret that is unlike anything I've ever read.
The rest of the pieces fail to reach the height of "Notes of a Native Son." Many of them are cultural criticism that is largely meaningless unless you are familiar with the book or movie Baldwin is citing.
The diction in the earlier pieces strain for a kind of unnecessary erudition, almost as though Baldwin is trying to prove how eloquent he is.
Read it.
MY VIDEO ESSAY ON THIS BOOK: https://youtu.be/vFBHQEfsq1oYou might be surprised by the low rating but, unfortunately, I can't justify a higher one. James Baldwin is an author I deeply admire and look up to. He is an incredibly talented writer and I want to read his complete bibliography. I'm surprised myself that I didn't click with Notes of a Native Son. I was so sure that I would love it but alas! it didn't work for me. The story of the Negro in America is the story of America – or, more preci
I will elaborate on this point later, it felt like he knew (content-wise) what he wanted to say but just not how to express it properly.Prior to Native Son, Baldwin didn't have the best experience with the publishing industry.
After the completion of Giovanni's Room, a novel which focuses on a homosexual relationship, he was told by Publisher's Row that he 'was a young Negro writer, who, if he published this book, would alienate his audience and ruin his career.' His publisher looked on Giovanni's Room with horror and loathing, and refused to touch it.This is purely my own speculation: I think that these experiences played their part in how James saw himself and his work.
Read with a group of friends in conjunction with a viewing of the Oscar-nominated documentary  I Am Not Your Negro . Experiencing both film and essay collection in tandem, what kept coming to mind over and over was Jan Kott’s influential phrase “Shakespeare, our contemporary,” which forwards the idea that every generation discovers some aspect of the Bard that seems to speak specifically and almost peculiarly to them, making him feel continuously contemporaneous. Well, I couldn’t get the revised
Well, I couldn’t get the revised phrase “James Baldwin, our contemporary” out of my mind, as thirty years after his passing his work continues to thunder with the blistering, clear-throated immediacy as if being issued this very moment from twitter or a blog.
Trying to think through larger social/political/cultural issues by offering up one’s subjective experiences as a lens is nothing new in critical writing, and has become more or less ubiquitous now, but few have ever been able to it as convincingly or with as much intricacy or nuance as Baldwin.
It's depressing that our treatment of migrant workers in the middle east is similar in many ways to how the whites treated black Americans.
And this treatment, this way we look at them, doesn't testify to their inferiority but to our inhumanity and fear.
Fear of returning to the poverty they suffer and we once suffered from, and fear of needing one day to serve others and work as hard as they do.
But we have to realize, before it's too late, that it's a fake and hateful identity that needs to be discarded and replaced by love and acceptance of ourselves and others as we and they really are: free and equal.
3.5/5My first Baldwin nonfiction. Fitting, since Notes of a Native Son was his first nonfiction. There's no denying that Baldwin was an exceptional writer and an insightful thinker. That said, Notes of a Native Son was a bit more of a mixed bag than expected.
Published in 1955, it has lost none of its relevance on many levels, and one of these is his argument that the representations of African Americans in and through literature and in movies and the role in which devices such as the "protest novel" are used to assuage liberal guilt and really do not bring about true societal change and instead foster a false sense of understanding and identification that still maintains the "otherness" of the group whose problems or issues are addressed in the work.
It took me a while to read this one as I had to stop and ponder what the man said, and much of my copy is highlighted.
People are trapped in history and history is trapped in them." I recently read The Weight of Ink, and this Baldwin quote kept playing in my head as I read it.
I've often thought about people being trapped by their history, but the idea of being trapped in history is an interesting one.
That Baldwin wrote this collection of essays in his early twenties is amazing.
Highly recommended, and should be required reading for everyone, especially Americans.
So I recommend this as a good introduction to James Baldwin's non-fiction and will let Mr. Baldwin have the last word."The time has come to realize that the interracial drama acted out on the American continent has not only created a new black man, it has created a new white man, too.
No road whatever will lead Americans back to the simplicity of this European village where white men still have the luxury of looking on me as a stranger.
He is inescapable aware, nevertheless, that he is in a better position in the world than black men are, nor can he quite put to death the suspicion that he is hated by black men therefore.Go to Amazon, go to Goodreads, go to any site where people review writings on the diversity and depth of racism, and you will see people say the term "white hating" all the time.
Of course, since there was an anonymous comment section, it provoked such comments as:"Completely and utterly racist, it would be racist for me to say that I’m not going to read a book by a black woman, yet its okay gor her to say something like this??""I don’t see how this is diverse in any which way.
Although touching on Baldwin's usual themes they revolve around the books "Uncle Tom's Cabin", "Native Son" and the movie "Carmen Jones" and I haven't read/seen these so I didn't understand a lot of what he was talking about.
I've checked out the Library of America collected essays which includes this and a ton of other essays which I'm looking forward to reading: Collected Essays: Notes of a Native Son / Nobody Knows My Name / The Fire Next Time / No Name in the Street / The Devil Finds Work / Other.
People who shut their eyes to reality simply invite their own destruction, and anyone who insists on remaining in a state of innocence long after that innocence is dead turns himself into a monster. In the foreword to this collection of essays Edward P. Jones writes:And so he continues on, page after page, offering light and understanding and a ruthless insistence not so much that he is correct with his vision of matters, but that to ignore his side of things is to see only a partial picture th
Having read most of Baldwin’s fiction I wanted to try his essays too because for me he’s an author whose work teaches me compassion and humanity and that’s not a lesson I’ll ever be able to say I’ve fully learned.From one of Baldwin’s biographies (by David Leeming) I know that he’s been criticized for not taking a side during the Civil Rights Movement, and later he’s even said to be irrelevant but I don’t think the power of his words has diminished in time.

It began to seem that the machinery of the organization I worked for was turning over, day and night, with but one aim: to eject me.” This incredibly powerful sense of isolation can only lead in one direction, which Baldwin elucidates with frightening clarity:“That year in New Jersey lives in my mind as though it were the year during which, having an unsuspected predilection for it, I first contracted some dread, chronic disease, the unfailing symptom of which is a kind of blind fever, a pounding in the skull and fire in the bowels.
While these essays on the issue of race in the 1960s and before were very interesting to listen to, and the topic still as pertinent today as it was when this collection was released, I found the whole book a little dated, although at the same time with some very interesting sections, particularly towards the end when he recounted his experiences in Paris and Switzerland as a black man.
Baldwin writes critiques and analyses of creative works of the day that include African Americans.
He writes about being a Black man in Europe during the 1940s, which I found to be a stark contrast to Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer.
I much prefer Baldwin's commentary to Miller's book.
Baldwin's writing is so intense that I wish I'd read this in print rather than listened to the audiobook.
I will most likely re-listen to parts of this book just to let the ideas sink in more deeply.
I also bought another Baldwin book to read in print.
Baldwin wrote the essays in this book when in his 20's.
In 1984, when he was 60, he wrote an introduction for the 30 anniversary edition.
I am glad for that introduction as it provided context for the essays.The first essay is a review of the book Uncle Tom's Cabin.
The second essay is a review of the book Native Son. The third essay is a review of the movie Carmen.
I have not seen the movie Carmen but if I ever do, I am sure that Baldwin's criticism will make the viewing experience more meaningful.The other essays are more personal.
all ideas are dangerous -- dangerous .
in this respect: that confronted with the impossibility of remaining faithful to one's beliefs, and the equal impossibility of becoming free of them, one can be driven to the most inhuman of excesses."Baldwin's narrative skill is of a high order, and many of these pieces have the qualities of a good short story.
One particularly memorable example is his vivid account of being arrested in France, "Equal in Paris." The frightening relevance of his experience to the liberties we comfortably take for granted is masterfully implied.Reading this collection was truly an intellectual adventure, and I look forward to his next collection, Nobody Knows My Name.
James Baldwin on visiting his dying father in the hospital: "The moment I saw him I knew why I had put off this visit so long.
I imagine that one of the reasons people cling to their hates so stubbornly is because they sense, once hate is gone, that they will be forced to deal with pain."I think one of the reasons that Baldwin is often praised for being able to articulate the black experience (four out of the five quotes on the back cover speak to this ability) is his ability to understand societal and individual realities on the systematic level.
“ Plus ça change ,” groan the exasperated French (who should certainly know), “ plus c’est le même chose .” (The more it changes, the more it remains the same.) At least they have the style to be truthful about it." (I find this twistedly comical considering they - French authorities - are truthful to a point in Baldwin's essay "Equal in Paris.")Autobiographical Notes - "In the context of the Negro problem neither whites nor blacks, for excellent reasons of their own, have the faintest desire to look back; but I think that the past is all that makes the present coherent, and further, that the past will remain horrible for exactly as long as we refuse to assess it honestly.I know, in any case, that the most crucial time in my own development came when I was forced to recognize that I was a kind of bastard of the West; when I followed the line of my past I did not find myself in Europe but in Africa.
