https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/884536.Eleanor_Roosevelt_Volume_1
We are also introduced to the growing number of friends in the expanding life of Eleanor Roosevelt – like feminist Nancy Cook, bodyguard Earl Miller, and journalist Lorena Hickok.
Her friends were initially from her own social milieu (upper class) – but over the years this changed, with the likes of Earl Miller and Lorena Hickok.
She looked after her grand-children when Eleanor and Franklin were frequently absent.
When the marriage of Eleanor and Franklin was threatened in 1919 with Franklin’s affair, she was instrumental in helping them weather the storm.
Excellent book all about Eleanor Roosevelt.
It is all explained in the book that there were two separate families of Roosevelts, each not related to the other.
This book is very detailed in all circumstances.
You learn all about Eleanor, from her childhood to every member of her family; all her cousins, etc., right down to family friends.
This is Volume 1.I learned so much about Eleanor.
Eleanor is truly a woman to look up to for all she stood for.
Eleanor was a woman of great circumstance.
I do have great respect for this history changing woman.
Eleanor Roosevelt was a very interesting woman, and volume 1 of her biography is fairly well-written and gives loads of details about her life, perhaps too much.
Some of the information in this book could have been deleted and still represented her life well.
There were also times where the same information was repeated in a slightly different way in more than one chapter.
Many times I personally did not agree with Eleanor Roosevelt, but enjoyed discovering more about her.
I was able to finish the book, and found it an interesting way to get to know and understand a former first lady.
I'm glad I'm reading this so soon after finishing a biography of FDR. Both authors act as their subjects' champion. Thus the FDR bio depicts ER as mostly unsupportive and self-absorbed (after the Lucy Mercer incident), while the ER bio expresses outrage at FDR's casual negligence and his dismissal of his wife's accomplishments. At the same time both books acknowledge the firm partnership that the marriage became. For myself, both FDR's and ER's life is inspiring. I'm particularly glad to be reading about ER at this point in my own life.
Blanche Wiesen Cook focuses extensively on Roosevelt's messed up childhood, and rightly so because it damaged her severely and ill-prepared her for the troubles that she was to face later in life.
Cook shows how Eleanor, finally freeing herself from some of the insecurities that had plagued her childhood years, regressed under Sara's smothering of Franklin, and that once again she felt like she had no home of her own.
Her handling of this part of ER's life is measured and professional, just like the book is overall.Reading this today, in 2018, makes me wonder what Roosevelt would say today were she still alive.
Top Eight Things I Learned about Eleanor Roosevelt:1)Incredibly traumatic childhood2)Ran her own school while FDR was governor of New York3)Had a furniture making factory4)Big time woman's rights advocate5)Teddy Roosevelt's niece (he gave her away at her wedding)6)Was an anti-semite before WW2. 7)He cheated, she offered a divorce, he declined, married in name only since that day.8)The two loves of her adult life were Earl Miller and Lorena Hickok.
It's a rare individual for whom I could stand to read a three-volume biography but I think Eleanor Roosevelt deserves one.
In many ways Eleanor's life can very easily be divided into three parts this biography takes - her early life and developing political awareness, her years as wife of one of America's most prominent politics and subsequently President, and the years after FDR's death, as the grand dame of American politics.She is still the most controversial and talked-about of First Ladies, loved and loathed in equal measure, who in many regards set the tone for all the First Ladies who came after her.
Well, apart from Melania Trump, but let's not go there...However, this book deals with Eleanor's life up to FDR's election as President, some 40+ years.
I have loved reading about the Roosevelt family for years. Perhaps I was drawn to a woman who stepped away from the shadow of men, thought and acted for herself during a time when this was uncommon - especially for a married woman.Despite the fact that chronologies seem linear, stories often are not. I really liked this book, but occasionally was befuddled by the time. The title designates the period for the book, but that did not keep later dates from creeping in to finish a story or relationship.I look forward to reading the subsequent volumes of Eleanor's story.
Well this was a hard one to read in audio I had to check it out from the library three times to get through it and I'm not sure how well it would have gone if I hadn't read it before. I'm glad I did even if the woman's voice wasn't annoying at times.
Even though ER was a mold breaker who showed that a woman's place doesn't have to be in the home, I still found it extremely odd that Cook could go into such teeth-grindingly minute detail about a great many things, but had very little to say about ER's relationships with her five children.
Call me quaint, but I don't think you can know a woman very well without knowing how she is with her children, and Cook barely goes into that at all.
If you had told me this book was so fascinating I wouldn't have believed you. But I read it in a day. What a life, and I have two more volumes to read. It's interesting to read about what happened in the 1920s, and see the parallels to today. Fascinating!
Such an incredible book. Such depth and truth to this amazing woman who overcame so much. Cook has way of pulling you into Eleanor's life and making you experience everything with her. She gives you enough detail to be involved, but doesn't weight you down in pointless correspondence or stories. A great biography for anyone wanting an honest account of Eleanor's pre-White House years.
"Happiness does not come from the seeking, it is never ours by right." WWI changed ER's world; social calls were replaced by a focus on the Red Cross and women's and family issues, but the culture within which she was raised left her passive about anti-Semitic attitudes.
This again serves as an important history lesson provided by the author.Cook skillfully details the marriage ER and FDR carved out, a relationship that has been the subject of so much speculation.
In her book, "Eleanor Roosevelt: Volume One, 1884-1933," Cook promises to give readers a fuller view of Eleanor Roosevelt – not just the mythic character, but the actual story behind the woman, an independent power in her own right."Eleanor Roosevelt: Volume One, 1884-1933" is, in essence, a feminist reading of the life and times of Eleanor Roosevelt, telling her story chronologically up to 1933, when Franklin Delano Roosevelt becomes President of the United States.
However, we were lucky to have her as an activist, first lady, representative to the United Nations and great American.
Many biographies of ER don't mention her charisma, which really worked to her advantage.
Plus she had a great ability to listen to people and empathize.
She made it a point of knowing what it was like to be poor, working in Settlement Houses on the Lower East Side.
She was active in the suffrage movement and the fight for women's rights--later she fought for better working conditions for all Americans.
If you like biographies and being inspired, you'll want to read this one.
She also helped her friends meet their life goals -- for example, she opened a furniture factory on her property just to do a friend a solid.The author's introduction to this book is thought-provoking.
One of the motivations of writing this book was Cook's desire to show ER as a whole person, including her sexuality.
It is an unremarkable theory that sexuality is part of human existence, but ER's sexuality had never been fully explored before Cook's books.
The book does not even discuss FDR that much -- that historical territory has already been harvested.
I loved this book, especially the author's writing style.
Thought it was extremely interesting, but a bit dry. Took me a really long time to finish. I am eternally grateful, however, because I never realized what an amazing woman ER was.
The Women's National Book Association sent this book to the White House today (March 6) in honor of Women's History Month: https://www.wnba-centennial.org/book-...From the Women's National Book Association's press release:Cook’s three-volume biography of Eleanor Roosevelt’s influential and inspirational life is a remarkable accomplishment.
Cook worked on Roosevelt’s biography for well over 25 years and presents a grand biography not of a remote icon, but of an indomitable woman who welcomed life, as she put it, with “an unquenchable spirit of adventure.” Volume 1 follows Roosevelt from her birth until she steps into the role of first lady in 1933.
I had the pleasure of hearing Blache Wiesen Cook at Roosevelt House, where Sarah Roosevelt tormented her daughter-in-law, Eleanor.
Ms. Cook is as wonderful a speaker (channelling Eleanor as she does) as she is a writer.
Facism has receded far enough into history that we've forgotten it and the war and devastation it brings.
We need look only to these wonderful volumes to find the roadway out of facism, racism, bigotry, homophobia, transphobia, xenophobia, and other forms of hate which destroy so much which is good and precious.

ER is an inspiration!!!
I feel like I should write a review to explain my 2 star rating.
First I want to say that I can really appreciate all of the effort the author put into this.
Endless hours must have been spent researching and capturing the fine details displayed in the book.
Each chapter would start by capturing my interest but I would lose interest by the end off each and have to force myself to continue to the next.
I'm not sure what the issue was - if it was the length of the chapters, or the arrangement of the book, or just me?
An interesting book about an admirable woman who lived in strange, dysfunctional world.
Surrounded by wealth and privilege, Eleanor never knew the love of her mother, and her father was an alcoholic whose family kept him away from his children for their own safety.
Still, she idolized her father.
She married into Franklin's family and inherited a domineering mother-in-law who never allowed her to be in charge of her own household or children.
She endured Franklin's infidelity and stayed to care for him when he became an invalid.
She was a champion for the poor and worked hard to make the world a better place for them.
The information for this book, the first in a series, comes from letters and documents recently declassified. The insight afforded by these very private documents really sheds light on her early life and her relationships with family and friends. It also helps to see the incredibly complicated family life she led.I'm very much looking forward to the next book in the series.
Not only is this an amazing biography on Eleanor but also those close to her and the current state of the country at this time period. E.R. did so much for this country and I feel like her husband got a lot of credit for it. I see bits of E.R. in Mrs. Michelle Obama as well. Excited to read the next two in the series.
I bought this book because I was in a leadership program and we were to read a book on a leader -- I remembered that my mom had read a book about Eleanor when I was young and she used to go do talks pretending she was her. Not sure if this is the same book or not - as this one was long and factual. I mostly skimmed it but will keep to read again if and when I retire
This is basically a huge encyclopedia (book number 1 of 2). I tried to read it cover to cover and didn't get very far before I fell asleep. I am a huge fan of this influential woman and a fan of biographies, but this is excruciating detail about every moment of her life told in a very dry and unwitty manner. Find another book!
I love Eleanor Roosevelt. I am inspired by her courage, her energy, her strength, her compassion. These books are a little hard to get through though, because Blanche Wiesen Cook is so interested in every detail about everyone that Eleanor Roosevelt ever looked at in her entire life, that it is hard to get be drawn in. I finally started just skimming through parts.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. With my appetite whetted by "The Roosevelts" on PBS, I read this book in a couple of weeks. I found it extraordinarily well researched, thorough, and fascinating. I'm looking forward to starting Vol. 2.
I can't really explain it but ever since I was in grade school and read a book on Eleanor I've had this strange fondness for her. Maybe we were friends in a past life. At any rate I speed through both of Ms. Cook's books. I will admit to liking the first one more than the second volume.
