https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2342280.Flowers_in_the_Attic_Petals_on_the_Wind
Just finished "Flowers in the Attic." The best I can describe this book is like a watching a car crash.
You know you shouldn't watch, but you can't tear your eyes away.
This book is vivid, descriptive, wrong, innocent, at times evil, but most of all it's dark.
It's a dark mystery that sucks you in and doesn't let go.
The incestuous relationship is troubling, and I have to ignore those parts because for me, I feel like it's just wrong.
But in the characters' eyes, they're all right.
This book takes the phrase "keeping it all in the family" quite literally.
I found it a little unrealistic that they stayed trapped in the attic forever, but then I also thought that if I were one of them I would be too terrified of the grandmother.
I'd liked her a little in Flowers in the Attic, but in the second book she just seemed like an overly imaginative slut.
Just use me when you need me." That's just really dreadful, and at that point I felt like I just didn't know her, and didn't sympathize with her anymore.
3.5 stars.NOW I've read the entire book/both books in this omnibus.
Still trash, kinda excusing pedophilia, but goddamn, I love vengeful Cathy.I love how deeply trash the story is and how seeing the Lifetime version of the story long beforehand enriched my experience.
Now I appreciate the film 10000000x more!
But yeah, so trash and so gooooood and there's a quote that made me go FUCK YEAH.
However, the dialogue is atrocious at times and that rape scene that's instantly written off as not actually being rape = NOOOOOOOOOO.
EAT IT.
EAT THE COOKIE.(view spoiler)[From the infamous 1987 film version (hide spoiler)]
In fact this is more Chris's story.Besides the obvious understanding of the attic(1) being a place where stuff no longer needed is stored, the attic can represent :-(2) The Dollanganger (Foxworth) family history and legacy(3) The "way" of humanity.
Daddy likes to mow the lawn.""Cathy's to Chris (Flowers in the Attic) "The Wind - dead souls whispering"I've got another goodie-whispering winds like dead souls trying totell us something."Bob Dylan wasn't kidding when he stated that the answer my friend is blowing in the Wind.Love that clung and killed ...
I cried multiple times at Cory and Carrie's sufferings, and the end of the book nearly made me stop, so full of it emotions was it.
But oh well, it made for a better story this way, and I love the book, from start to finish.Stars: 5.
But otherwise, by all means, read it!--Given my obsession with the first novel in the Dollanganger series, you'd think I'd be in love with all of them.
Chris' undying lust (love?) for Cathy could be disgusting if I really wanted to think about it, but I didn't, and so he seemed sweeter and less incestuous.
The sequel, however, went over to the wrong side of Crazy-Town.It was so painfully depressing that I would put the book down for WEEKS until I had recovered enough to continue.
I would then open the book and start reading only to find myself, a couple of pages later, just staring at the page without reading.
I think it's a defense mechanism my brain's using to spare me pain.Now it's been over a year since I started it and I think it's time to admit that I just can't finish this.Continuing might seriously damage my mentality.
REVIEW TO COME TOMORROW, PROMISE!
Stumbled upon the Lifetime movie version of Flowers in the Attic a few weeks ago, and found myself thinking - that didn't happen in the book, did it?
Looked it up online only to find the Lifetime movie was pretty true to the story, then I noticed most copies of the book as pictured online looked a lot thicker than what I remembered the book I read looking like.
This character sucks at life basically, and by the time they're finally out of the attic, there's not even anything really interesting about them.
Yes it is a little trite and longwinded in places but it is a fictional novel, not a classical piece of literature.
Sometimes I have to put the heavy serious books down and hit something a little lighter and less realistic.
I mean, come on, do you really believe ANY kid would stay locked in the attic over 3 years when they could have climbed down numerous times and taken off, money or no money.
Kids today would not hesitate to climb down that bedsheet ladder and head for the nearest phone to call DHR.
When I read this book I just felt as though I was so much apart of this heart wrenching story,there were even moments when I cried especially when little Cory got sick and his Big brother tried to save him.Even by slicing his own arm to give him blood.The saddest part was not knowing what there mother's intentions were to be...and that was to slowly but surely try to kill her own children,lil Cory would be her 1st victim...totally heartfelt and heartbreaking,this book and the whole series can be read over and over again...gotta love V.C.Andrews
This is one of the first "adult" books I ever read. Probably pretty inappropriate for a 10year old, but at least I was reading something. I have re-read this series a couple of times since then and can't say I ever get tired of it. It certainly belongs in the horror section at the bookstore: Incest galore. Murdering mothers. Sociopathic sons. This is the only VC Andrews series actually written by Virginia and is certainly the best and creepiest.
this series really depresses me, the tone of it simply sucks all the joy from my mind. I finish reading a chapter and I feel like ive been holding my breath -- not ina good way. +1 for emotional connectivitytoo dark for me though.
These books are pretty fucked up, that's all there really is to say. Four kids put into a horrible situation that fucks them up, I'd suggest not to read unless you have a dark, /dark/ mind.
Though to be fair, this wasn't ACTUALLY V.C. Andrews' first novel, it was just the first she published under her own name and no one knows what her old penname was because she didn't want her family to read those books for some unknown reason to do with "the content".Also, I kind of hate when people make stupid remarks about how this book was the 1980s fifty-shades of Grey or Gone Girl or Twilight.
It's been said that V.C. Andrews (who had many health problems) met a handsome doctor who told her the story of himself and his siblings locked away in an attic for SIX years, and he inspired the character who would become Chris in the novel.
It is very disturbing some of the things that happen in the book and such but I love Cathy and Christopher (even as a couple).
And then to just leave them for months at a time in the care of her mother, which she knows is the worst person to have look out for children.Petals on the Wind: I liked the Lifetime movie better than the book, even though this one is probably my favorite book as well.
All in all, loved the whole book and still am obsessed with this series even though there is disturbing stuff.
She begins a ballet career and life of sleeping with any man she pleases, Chris becomes a doctor who lusts for his sister, and Carrie feels neglected and unaccomplished next to her older siblings (view spoiler)[ and also depressed because of Cory's death  (hide spoiler)] CHARACTERS  Cathy I didn't like her.
And this is set in the 1960s.As the book goes on, Cathy makes less effort to hide her body from Chris, and even flirts with him (view spoiler)[ Eventually, she gets raped by Chris, but I think she was okay with that and they had sex again later  (hide spoiler)] But she occasionally becomes good and pushes him away.In the second book, Cathy is basically a slut.
I liked Flowers in the attic. I proceeded to read the next book and the first one seems like an angel compared to the second one. It's like a telenova written by a bad fan fiction writer who watched the "mmm watcha say" snl skit one too many times. The end was pretty predictable by the way every one of Cathy's lovers were dying. She must've gotten Sam Winchester's curse where everyone she sleeps with dies.
I didn't like this book as much as the first one which sucked me in. I did like it, but it turned out to have a different storyline than I originally thought that it would have based on the first book in the series.
I’ve watched the films. So I really enjoyed the books. They didn’t wow me, but they are a very good read. Especially if you’ve seen the films, I’d even say the books were better (as the case usually is with film vs book!).
I love all V.C. Andrews books. Always a twisted up family but a great story. Compelling
Books I read many years ago, about 1983, while in high school. At the time, I thought they were great, strange and dirty little novels. I remember these novels really drawing me in. These books were hard for me to put down and I read each one in about a day or two.
Flowers in the Attic/Petals on the Wind by V.C Andrews was a complicated novel.
The abuse in the book by the grandmother and the abandonment by their mother did keep me reading on but after the incidents were done I found myself bored.
The only way in the childrens mother's eyes was to bring her them all to her parent's home where she will hide her kids in the attic to never be seen or heard.
Little did they know they would be spending years and years up there dealing with abuse from their grandmother, never seeing their mother, and missing out on normal things kids do.
Chris, Cathy, Cory, and Carrie lost their father in a tragic car accident and their mother reconnected with her father after many years of his disowning her.
Chris and Cathy in those years become Carrie and Cory's Mom and Dad. Cathy, while being whiny about their predicament, was the one who saw through their mother's lies and deceptions about the whole situation.
Dr. Paul takes in Chris, Cathy, and Carrie and makes them feel as if they are his own children.
I love this book for it's original dark plot line that differs from what any author I ever read has written.
As I have said before, I grew relationships with the characters; I had ones I loved and hated.
because I honestly did love it.It's that kind of book who has romance, twisted plot, good relationships, and much more, it's almost hard to explain.
P.S To read this book you must, or might want to have a open mind for it does have a plot different then anything else I've ever read.
As such, I decided it was time to give it a try when I found a bargain version of a collection of the first two books.If you haven't read Flowers in the Attic, you should probably stop reading this.
Let me say first off, it's not really the plot that had me disgusted enough to stop reading this book.Quick summary: awesome dad dies, mom takes kids to parents' home & locks them in attic so grandad doesn't know, lies to kids, is a horrible mother, etc.My biggest problems were Cathy, mom, & grandma.
Christopher completely changed between sections with little explanation as to why (is puberty supposed to be a reason?), and despite all the hatred toward the grandmother we don't know her at all.
I enjoyed reading the beginning of their new lives, and I got sucked into the end which was, essentially, another "beginning." But all the talk of revenge and plotting and sex got really old, really fast.
I'll give her that—I mean, it had to be compelling, otherwise there wouldn't have been more than one occasion I almost missed my train stop whilst reading.
But if I had to read one more phrase with an exclamation point, I would have clawed at my own skin!
I liked it.
This book got me so addicted, I didn't want to put it down and I was stuck reading it late into the night.
The whole main story happened in the first book, and the second revolved from there.I hated Cathy's mother, she was such a bitchy person.
I guess that's where Cathy got that...
I hated Cathy so much.
She basically ruined it, even though I liked the second book better than the first.
She didn't know what she wanted, she went off cheating on different men, and they all still adored her, like how could that happen in reality?
OVERALL: 3 starsFlowers in the Attic (Dollanganger #1) - 3 starsThis book got a little overwhelming for me. I wanted to read it before I watched the TV movie but it was a lot to take in. Super psychological.Petals on the Wind (Dollanganger #2) - 3 starsI continued on with the series because I wanted to see the second TV movie and I always like reading something before watching it or I'll never go back and actually read the story. This continued on the same intense psychological track. Readers be prepared, this gets intense.
V.C. Andrews did an interesting job writing about four siblings who were forced to live with each other when they were put in an attic and forced to live there for many years.
All the while, creating romance out of a disgusting relationship.
V.C. Andrews attempts to make their relationship seem romantic, and really proves that the apple really doesn't fall too far from the tree.
Since he is obviously in love with his mother in the most unnatural way, he sees Cathy who is like their mother in every way and finds a way to get the mother through her.
