https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306107.A_Gathering_of_Days
This book is of the same ilk, especially The Little House stories.This is a simple little book, written as a journal by 14 year old Catherine Hall in 1830-32, spanning just 15 months.
Written by Joan Blos and published in 1979, she goes back 150 years and captures an image of rural New Hampshire life, and gives the reader a sense of being right there.
The prose is simple and sparse, but Blos has captured the essence of the time and place, and of the people.This book won the Newberry Medal and the National Book Award in 1980 for best childrens literature, and well derserved.
But all that having been said, I have definitely now decided to simply and truthfully rate A Gathering of Days as to my enjoyment of the book at this time (and as an older adult), and yes, I have indeed absolutely and wholeheartedly loved my reading experience and rather massively so (the at first somewhat slow but steady, ultimately joyful acceptance of Mammann as Catherine's stepmother and even the depressing and saddening parts of  A Gathering of Days, such as when Catherine is describing the death of her best friend Cassie and later, when her other best friend Sophy must leave to work in a far away mill in order to make money for her family), and the only reason I am giving A Gathering of Days four stars instead of five is that personally, I do tend to find the entire episode concerning that runaway slave a bit tacked on and not all that well incorporated into the text proper (for it does at least to and for me feel almost as a bit of an afterthought, as though Joan W.
This book to me was boring because the format it was written in and how she told us mainly everything that happened in her day. I didn't like that because she didn't tell just the important stuff she told the every day events.
Catherine, a young lady growing up in New Hampshire, writes in a journal of her days, her routines, her friends and her struggles.
My one (very small) nit in this otherwise well-researched tale is the reference to her aunt wearing “bridal white.” I was told during a program in Savannah the concept of a bride wearing the white gown really didn’t come into the social conscious until Queen Victoria’s wedding in 1840, and even then, most people couldn’t have afforded an elaborate (and impractical) white gown.
Also, according to other information I have gleaned, it would have been extremely poor taste to wear black at a wedding, even with the recent death.
This book is written as a diary in the 1830's, and sometimes I enjoy diaries, but this book was all over the place. Each day didn't correlate with each other. Now some parts were formatted well and did make me want to read more, but other parts were super boing and made me want to fall asleep. I do not recommend this book. I did, though, learn a little bit more about the 1830' which is a bit of a plus.
This book had a great ending but a super boring beginning and middle.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book and the author's lovely, honest and sincere voice.It is the journal of a fourteen year old girl, living in New Hampshire in 1831.
She writes of her family life, her father and sister.
She writes of her mother and baby brother's passing years before.
She writes of daily life on the farm.
She tells of her friends and their adventures.One thing I really enjoyed about this book was it's believability.
Sometimes sad things happen in life.
You know, I really loved this book.
One of the reviews on the back of the book says "Her characters are truly of their times, not 1970's sensibilities masquerading in 1830's homespun, and old-fashioned in teh best sense of the word--principled." True--it seemed very authentic.
I could totally believe it was a real journal.
I just loved how it seemed so real and I of course love the setting.
I love it like I love the Little House on the Prairie books, but I might like this one even more.
I only wish there was a sequel where she was a little older.
This book was a very confusing book to me. I feel like this book could use a better transition after each diary entry. This book was also not a very exciting book either. This book felt very boring to me and some of the people that I read it with thought the same.
I just thought this was sort of "meh".
I'm trying to read all the Newbery Medal winning books, and I just didn't find much to distinguish this from the other slow-paced accounts of unhappy children who find quiet, inner strength that litter the Newbery pantheon.
The journal format is unique and refreshing, and there are some intriguing conflicts to care about, but there just wasn't much to be thrilled about.
The language of the time and historical accuracy are portrayed right on the money, and make the reading experience a bit more enjoyable.
If you like historical New England history, you'll probably love this book.
Diary of a 13-year-old in 1830 New Hampshire. No conflict or character development. Best friend's death is foretold on page 1. I don't know how this one won the Newbery.
Therefore, Friday, I snagged our copy of A Gathering of Days because it was short and it was in journal format, which I really like for kids literature.Whenever I read a book that chronicles life in the 1800s, I can't help but compare it to Laura Ingalls Wilder's books.
The third part involves the death of Cath's friend Cassie, which is not a spoiler at all because it says so right in the summary.
For all Cath's insistence that Cassie is her best friend, the instance of her death is pretty much like, "Cassie died this morning.
This one, in particular, tells the story of young Catherine and what it was like to live a farm life in New Hampshire in the 1830s.
It was a good book, by all means, but I have to say that I didn't love it like I was expecting to after seeing that it is a Newbery Award winner.
I liked that it offered a glimpse into the ways of life during a much simpler time.
Overall, I think this would be a good book for young girls, especially for fans of historical fiction.
I almost gave up on this one, but in the end, I'm so glad I didn't.
The reason that I'm glad I didn't give up on it is because it made me think of simpler times and what life was like.Families endured a lot but had to stick together and rely on each other for their food, clothing, ways in which to keep warm (making blankets & wood for the fire), etc.
Times were so much simpler and in some ways better back then.
I'm glad I stuck with the book until the end.
I liked it okay, to be honest. I didn't love it. There wasn't really a strong plot to the book, which is probably why it took me like two months to finish. I did appreciate all the historical details about daily life, people's attitudes toward issues like slavery, and so on.
Is it not possible to gain meaning without sadness.The story starts with a letter from Catherine Hall Onesti to her great-granddaughter and namesake as she turns 14.
She, however, was doing a good job of keeping house for her father and younger sister and commented several times that "we do all right." During the journal she shares her thoughts on school, her neighbors, a mysterious stranger, and life.
For good times and ill each have their place; and he who doubts or questions either will only reveal how poor is his trust, how flawed his obedience." p.
this is very much like anne franks diary in a way but it tells about how a girls life had put with so many hardships and lived a pioneer life without her birth mother. it was like little house in the big woods series where they lived a pioneer life and dealt with hardships. also like how anne frank dealt with fear and having to stay quiet.
This is a sweet little book, appropriate for children learning about American history.
The narrator recounts her household duties, recipes, her strivings with her schoolwork, her friendships, her experiences with loss, her dubious welcome of her new step-mother from far-away Boston, and her maturing acceptance of change.
In the background, the country begins to grapple with the morality of the slave trade, and in her journal the narrator remarks on the difference between perfect obedience in forced servitude and perfect obedience to moral law from personal will.
Reminiscent of Caddie Woodlawn and the books of Laura Ingalls Wilder, but very brief and less plot-driven.
This was a rare occurrence--a Newbery winner that I hadn't read!
Her mother has recently died, and she chronicles taking over household life, going to school, and the morality of slavery in the short diary entries that comprise the novel.
The story starts out slow, as most diary-based books do, but it picks up speed by the end.
I can understand why it won the Newbery Award.
The examination and accuracy of colonial life is thorough, and the language matches the era fairly well.
Will I cherish this book forever?
No. But I don't regret reading it, which is often half the battle.

Written as a New Hampshire girl’s journal from 1830-1832, Catherine Hall is a 13-year-old who is keeping house for her father and sister due to her mother’s death during childbirth.
This short time journal tells of one of her most memorable time periods in her life during which her father remarries, she gets a stepmother and a stepbrother, her best friend dies, and she leaves her father’s farm, never to return again.
It received the Newbery, I believe, because the novel captures early American farm life, her awakening awareness of the injustice of slavery, and her first two experiences of very personal and difficult grief all of which many can relate to.
It was ok. It never really picked up for me. It was kind of interesting to know what they're daily life was like back in the 1830's and what they had to go through but like I said it never really picked up.
This book was a somewhat boring account of a girl's childhood in New England written in diary form. The best part was the use of the word abecedarian.
After that the main character warms up a little bit.
If you make it to page 32 or so, the rest of the book has a lot more activity and more things going on.
It definitely reminded me a bit of those which I really liked when I was younger.
It is an issue removed from the characters for the most part as they are in a small community, but, it's discussed anyways.
This book would really only appeal to kids who like historical fiction, it doesn't have enough action to also count as an adventure book.
I had higher hopes for this one. I enjoyed Blos's recreation of 19th-century language and her descriptions of everyday life, but I found the plot too meandering for my taste. My biggest issue with this book was the plot thread involving the runaway slave. The whole episode seemed contrived and implausible; ultimately, it seemed like Blos was just trying to find a way to bring in modern mores and talk about race after a decade of excellent race-centered children's books. It really had no place in this story.
This book was really good, except for the parts I didn't understand. This story took place in 1830-1831 as a girl named Catherine writes in her diary. Obviously, she uses English of the 18th century, which confused me. For example, showed was spelled shewed, but it was mostly the grammar I think. I admired the bond between Catherine's family and friends. Although a couple disputes popped up, they didn't last long. I also enjoyed the whole book from Uncle Jack's humor to Zeno's wise words.
Diary entries cover everything from attendance at the one-room schoolhouse and keeping the Sabbath, to assisting an escaped slave, saying goodbye to a best friend, and adjusting to the arrival of a new stepmother.Like The Light in the Forest, this is a book I remember loving in middle school.
The fact that Catherine is such a relatable character with thoughts and emotions similar to young teens of the 21st century might encourage even reluctant readers of historical fiction to give this story a chance.As a history lesson on its own, this book would be rather thin, but as an introduction to the time period, or supplemental reading to emphasize what it was truly like to live in New England during the 1830s, it is a must-read.
I think that it involved quilting and a slave, but I'm not even sure, because most of the book is comprised of describing exactly how Catherine walked to school and what she ate for lunch that day in full detail.
After reading this book, I started vividly hallucinating about locks of hair and quilting squares.
I wanted to be her while I read.
A month after this book I ran out of antidepressants and became addicted to several drugs.
Never buy this book.PS: Katie, if you're reading this, how's your new family?
Another book that is fairly well-written but has no kid appeal at all.
The characters all seem to have genuine nineteenth century opinions, not just modern day thoughts dressed up in a pretty bonnet and straw hat.
I wasn't sure when this book had been written, and was surprised to see that it won the 1980 Newbery, so it is comparitively modern.
I think that's because there isn't a traditional plot format, and therefore it's hard to jump onto one particular incident as what the book is "about".
The characters felt a little flat for me.
A few days later, she loses her school book and then finds it on a rock with this note in it: PLEAZ MISS.
Anyways, Catherine and her friend Cassie leave a quilt and some food in the woods.
Later in the book, there are some big changes to Catherine's life.
First, her Father goes to trade in Boston and he comes back with the news that he has found a new wife.
One day, Cassie (Catherine's Best Friend), gets very sick.
Then, Catherine gets a note from the man they helped in the woods that day long ago.
