https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64222.Going_Postal
That's what they were for.Turns out, years spent scamming and conning the public have excellently prepared Moist von Lipwig with the skill set needed to run a vast corporation.Who knew?My Discworld-reading for the Humour Club has had its ups and downs.
Yet, I've never rated anything less than three stars because I laughed, at least once, while reading each book.
*This one is EVERYTHING a Discworld book can be - funny, touching, clever and thrilling.
ADDED BONUS - Pratchett has invented possibly the nicest euphemism ever for describing old age - It's good to know I'm not decrepit, I'm just rich in years.A perfect pick-me-up of a read!
So throughout the rest of the novel I eschewed the British aristocratic drawl of Lord Vetinari and replaced with Korman’s robber baron prose for full comedic effect.Granny Weatherwax is still my favorite, but Sir Terry has succeeded again in making a GREAT Discworld novel that is funny, thought provoking and entertaining all at once.While Moist von Lipwig is a worthy and fun protagonist, once again the real hero is Pratchett himself.
We revisit many of our Discworld favorites, meet some new friends, and a rousing good time is had by all.
This book was an excellent surprise; I love the Discworld series but was getting tired of seeing the same characters again and again in every book.
But this book introduces an entirely new and refreshing cast of characters.
Pratchett's books are funny precisely because he has a very firm grasp of human nature.
In some of the later novels I was getting more of a reused-joke feeling, and while it was still pretty funny, all the depth was gone.
In this novel it's back, and I would rank Going Postal pretty high among the Discworld novels.Highly recommended, especially to Pratchett fans who think Discworld has gotten a little stale.
I picked up this book to read on a 15 hour flight from Chicago to Vietnam, on the assumption that it would be a light, pleasant way to pass the dreary hours (after one flight to China during which I watched the first X-Men film three times, I decided it was best to err on the side of having too many books rather than too few).
My assumptions proved correct, and I enjoyed the book quite thoroughly.
I wouldn't have considered it to be an interesting topic for inquiry (I mean, come on; post offices mostly exist to aggrivate people who hate standing in queues, right?) but I was wrong.Best vocabulary word gleaned from the text: "frank", meaning to stamp something.
Perhaps it shouldn't have been, given how many people whose opinions I respect are Pratchett fans, but I haven't read a fantasy novel since giving up on Robert Jordan's painstakingly prolonged The Wheel of Time (somewhere in book 5, I think) long before college.
Compared to the grueling epics I recall from years ago, Pratchett's style was brisk and entertaining, his humor completely suffusing the tone of the book in a way that reminded me of Douglas' Adams' approach to science fiction.
Ridiculous name aside, Moist von Lipwig's reluctantly scrupulous con artist (emphasis on 'artist', as his maneuvering definitely deserves such a word) was exceedingly entertaining to follow.Pratchett's underlying thoughts and satire also seemed fairly spot-on.
I haven't read a lot of Pratchett -- I think this is only my second one -- but I do enjoy reading him for the color and the metaphor. The way he turns a figure of speech on the lathe will frequently leave you just sitting there in your chair with a table leg in your hand, and your wife says, "Hey, what's with the table leg." And I say, "I'm reading."
Otras reseñas de Mundodisco en mi blog.  «Cartas en el asunto» es la novela número 33 de la hilarante saga de Mundodisco; uno pensaría que a esta altura al gran Terry Pratchett no se le podrían ocurrir más personajes y que la calidad de la saga podía disminuir, pero con este libro demostró que todavía le quedaban excelentes ideas para rato. Esta novela da comienzo a una nueva saga que lamentablemente Terry no pudo terminar; presentó un nuevo arco argumental iba a estar protagonizado por Húmedo
Lamentablemente, Pratchett solo pudo escribir una novela más protagonizada por Húmedo Von Mustachen antes de morir y por esta razón todos estos nuevos personajes no son tan reconocidos como los demás.Lo primero que me llamó la atención de este libro es que, a diferencia de otras novelas de Mundodisco, está dividida en capítulos.
I am probably the last person on earth to read Terry Pratchett, but I'm glad I finally did.
People have been recommending his books to me for years and although I had planned on starting with book 1, Color of Magic, the bookseller recommended I start with Going Postal instead (they were also out of stock of CoM).
Every time I picked this book up I laughed out loud, it has a refreshing wit combined with a sharp perception of people and their funny habits.
I ate this book up and bought copy of "Guards, Guards" before I finished.
What's your favorite Terry Pratchett?
Monetary RelativityNo better theory of money exists than Pratchett's: money is founded on postage stamps that got out of control. Understanding that fact helps to explain the world better than relativity theory.
Super zabava. Super humor, ironija, cinizam, satira... super Vlaža, super Pratchett.
“What kind of man would put a known criminal in charge of a major branch of government? Apart from, say, the average voter.” This was really a funny, fun book. Lots of digs at corporations, lotteries, and just life.“People flock in, nevertheless, in search of answers to those questions only librarians are considered to be able to answer, such as "Is this the laundry?" "How do you spell surreptitious?" and, on a regular basis, "Do you have a book I remember reading once? It had a red cover and it turned out they were twins.”
Still my favorite Discworld book of all time
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. Going Postal definitely ranks among my top 3  Discworld books.  That is to say, Equal Rites will ALWAYS be my favourite, as it was my first, and the one that got me into Terry Pratchett to begin with. After that, the list gets blurrier, but nevertheless, Going Postal is among best.I saw the Going Postal movie no fewer than 3 years ago and I loved it. Which was my reason to postpone reading this book after I suffered from a severe Terry Pratchett fatigue
Which was my reason to postpone reading this book after I suffered from a severe Terry Pratchett fatigue.
Now I'm back, and I'm happy to be here.Going Postal is essentially a book about hope.
I know that many would say that this is always the case with Terry Pratchett, but I have grown to feel a gap between his books.
However, in Going Postal the characters are definitely not magical, but are awesome nevertheless.I also found something else I was afraid I would never experience again: marveling at Pratchett's cleverness.
One of my favourite Discworld novels - although I'm sure I've said that more thank once.The way terry Pratchett plays with worlds is great - it adds to the pace and humour of this hilarious novel.
In this rich complex and darkly humorous story Terry Pratchett takes us to a side of Anke Morpork that the disc-world series had not previously visited; it's post office.
Saved from permanent death, the Patrician of Anke Morpork, lord Vetinari offers him a job; to revitalise the wrecked and useless Post Office.
To do so Moist must use all his skills as a con artist and many other skills he probably never thought he had.This is a later discworld story, and while I loved the earlier ones when I first came across them, in these later series I think PTerry's writing really came of age.
And it is very hard to read the Discworld series without being at least fascinated by Vetinari (as evidenced by the "Vetinari for president!" stickers I often see around).
But once in awhile, Pratchett likes to remind people that while Vetinari, while he has style, is, well, a dick."While this is happening, moreover, no person concerned with the Grand Trunk Company or any of its employees is to leave this room."Greenyham: "You can't do that!"Vetinari: "Can I not?
It's what we do."(If anyone else likes Vetinari, Guards, Guards is rather essential reading, since it gives the reader some pretty Important Information on how Vetinari go to where he is now.)
I have only read the Discworld books featuring the City Watch, and the related follow-up books featuring a spin-off character in this book, Moist Von Lipwig.
an angel." This is the first book in the Moist Von Lipwig series, which is linked to the City Watch series, which is a stand-alone branch of the Discworld mega series.
The books feature con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig,  and a few characters from the City Watch.
This book does not feature Moist Von Lipvig, but it has some City Watch characters.
Lipwig is drafted into running Ankh-Morpork's moribund Post Office, finds himself in competition with the evil Grand Trunk clacks company, and uses all of his evil, swindling, scheming tricks to do good, quite against his will.The book takes shots at government employees, private corporations, finance, hackers, university politics, and all sorts of other things, all in the guise of being a humorous fantasy novel.
I'm not usually a big fan of humor, though I am a fan of satire, and I hate puns, but Pratchett's puns actually made me laugh.
I just haven’t been very good at switching between books lately due to a number of distractions.This one includes two things I have soft spots for: a talented con artist and the postal service.
The man is a genius, several moves ahead of his opponents; and while he may be ruthless in some ways, I also have to admire him.While I use e-mail and sometimes text messages, I still enjoy writing and receiving old-fashioned paper letters.
Anyway… The plot hinges on Moist being forced by Vetinari to take over the post office, which has fallen into disrepair, in part due to a new way of sending messages called the clacks.
Going Postal is the first book in the Moist von Lipwig subseries of Discworld, which is also associated with the Industrial Revolution subseries.
However, lately there have been issues with the Clacks -- mismanagement, downtime, and maybe even murders.The main character, Moist von Lipwig, was a fun character of the “lovable rogue” archetype.
In fact, I think this may be the first Discworld book for which I actually stayed up a few minutes past my bedtime one night because I wanted to know what would happen next.
(view spoiler)[To be more specific, I liked that he looked at the bigger picture and considered the greater good.
His fantasy has layers inside it's layers.BOOK DETAILS:Going Postal by Terry Pratchett, read by Stephen Briggs, published by HarperAudio (2005) / Length: 11 hrs 27 minSERIES INFO:This is the first Discworld book about Moist von Lipwig, and is one possible (among many) starting point for newbies.
Moist is not a native citizen, and that makes it possible to comment on the various quirks of the city without it seeming awkward.The main setting of the book is the abandoned Post Office.
Cute, but kind of stale--like Seinfeld. It's superficially funny, but you get the feeling it's been done before. Many times.In light of 2008's financial crisis, Going Postal might be taken as a timely reminder of the fallibility of humans, especially those entrusted with wealth or power.

Prečets savā labākajā formā. Asprātīgi un smieklīgi par valsts iestāžu darbību, lielu pilsētu pārvaldīšanu, manipulēšanu ar cilvēkiem, reiderismu, eņģeļiem, kas parādās vienreiz mūžā, golemu attiecībām ar brīvo gribu, vēstuļu maģiju, klak torņu hakeriem, kniepadatu kolekcionēšanu, kaķu glābšanu no degošām mājām un, apžēliņ, cik daudz ko citu.
I care about mail, embezzlement, greedy businessmen, and a main character named Moist.I wish there was a word for that kind of accomplishment.
Aquí es un Pratchett mucho menos delicado para mostrar lo que Gaiman llamó la furia subyacente de sus libros.En este caso una crítica contra los corporate raiders y los monopolistas.
Perfectamente válido hacerla, pero hay momentos donde parece que el autor está gritando.
Fuera de eso, hay chistes divertidos que hacen una narración bastante entretenida.
Tengo entendido que ésta es la mejor de las novelas de Moist (Húmedo) y que las demás ya son parte del declive del Mundodisco junto con la salud del autor.En general de los cuatro libros del Mundodisco que leí este verano éste fue el que menos me gustó (y también de los que más expectativas tenía).
Vlahoš van Rosret a Nadosah Pozlátko. Dvaja géniovia zločinu stoja proti sebe v boji na život a na smrť. Vyhrať môže len jeden. Samozrejme je to Lord Vetinari.
FENOMENALNO!Primetio sam, mislim negde oko Dušmana, da počinje da se menja Pračetovo pisanje. Dosta je direktniji u prozivkama pojava koje ga zuljaju.33-ća knjiga u serijalu o Disksvetu se ozbiljno bavi tehnološkom revolucijom,korporativnom mahinacijama, korupciji, bankarima, organizovanom religijom,, i ima ozbiljniju dozu sarkazma nego do sada što je bio slučaj.I to nije ništa lošije nego do sada, naprotiv , meni više leži sa dozom "mraka"
Uzivala sam!
I was given Going Postal as a gift a couple of years ago and finally picked it up and attempted it due to my keenness to get into the Discworld series.
I read it in a couple of days and for me that is a good effort!This won't be my last outing in the Discworld series and I'm keen to see how Moist Von Lipwig (worst name ever?) fares in his next outing but I'm probably going to go down the "Death" series line next, starting with Mort.
The whole idea of Death getting a recruit/apprentice made me want to try Going Postal to see if I could get into the series/style more.
