https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1297985.Musicophilia
(Her professor, recognizing his own lecture notes written verbatim on an exam, thought she was cheating until he discovered her gift.)And there are eye-opening tales about composers like Ravel, whose famous Bolero, with its relentless repetition, might have been influenced by his frontotemporal dementia, and Shostakovitch, who refused to have a piece of shrapnel removed from his head because it mysteriously provided him with music which he then incorporated into his compositions.Also included is the incredibly moving story of concert pianist and teacher Leon Fleisher, whose loss of the use of his right hand for three decades transformed his life and approach to art.
The structures of the chapters are very satisfying to me: they start with a story of an individual and then, by the end of the segment, lead to a more general description of the science behind the patient’s symptoms.One of the more fascinating chapters covers children with William’s Syndrome, which affects about one out of 10,000 people.
One man, an amnesiac who has a short-term memory of only a few seconds, can only stay present within himself while he plays the piano.More importantly, Sacks doesn’t see his patients as freaks or abnormalities who are simply interesting to read about, but rather as windows into how we can collectively understand how we function.
My brain, my heart and my soul needed this.  The most random playlist in history:Jeff Buckley - HallelujahGuns N' Roses - November RainThe Rolling Stones - Gimme ShelterLed Zeppelin - Babe I'm Gonna Leave YouAlice In Chains - NutshellMother Love Bone – Chloe Dancer / Crown of ThornsThe Verve - Bitter Sweet SymphonyQueens Of The Stone Age - Make It Wit Chu2Pac - Dear Mama2Pac - Life Goes On2Pac - Ghetto Gospel2Pac - Hail MaryEminem - Space BoundEminem - Rap GodGangsta's Paradise - Coolio feat. L.
U2 - Every Breaking WaveStevie Nicks - Edge of SeventeenThe Irrepressibles - In This ShirtNirvana - Something in the WayNirvana - You Know You're RightAwolnation – SailLaura Pausini & Andrea Bocelli - Vivo Per LeiAdele – When We Were YoungOasis - Champagne SupernovaBarcelona – Please Don't GoBirdy – WingsMelissa Etheridge - You Can Sleep While I DriveOne Republic – All This TimeSleeping Wolf - The Wreck of Our HeartsAudioslave - Like A StoneAerosmith - Cryin'Bruce Springsteen - Dancing In The Dark Radiohead - No SurprisesMeggie's Theme - Henry ManciniX-Ray Dog - The VisionX Ray Dog - Requiem OvertureAudiomachine - An Unfinished LifeAudiomachine – The TruthJamin Winans - Ink Soundtrack (John's Walk )James Horner - Briseis And Achilles – TroyClose Your Eyes - Buffy/Angel ThemeLisa Gerrard & Denez Prigent - Gortoz A RanGothic Storm - Whisper Of HopeThe xx - Intro Mark Petrie – SurpassBalmorhea - RemembranceZack Hemsey – See What I've BecomeMessage To Bears – You Are a MemoryEagles - Hotel CaliforniaBØRNS - American MoneyTemple Of The Dog - Hunger StrikeLinkin Park – One More LightPearl Jam – BlackMassive Attack – TeardropEminem feat Sia - Beautiful PainGnash - I hate u, I love u ft.
I definitely recommend This Is Your Brain on Music over this book if you’re interested in a real scientific analysis of music and our obsession with it.Every time that I read a book by Sacks or something similar I get a depressing feeling of being a slave to my brain.
Even in us “ordinary” people, our personality and behavior are governed by our brain chemistry and neural connectivity.
Next time that you encounter someone with an unpleasant personality trait, or an annoying behavior, or a different outlook to life than yours, just remember that he has a different brain organization from yours.
Musicophilia is a lurid, but respectable, look into the brains and lives of people that appear normal on the outside, but have strong, strange and intractable relationships to music.
And that’s the bottom line here for this book--incredibly interesting, highly readable, and, after reflecting about people in your lives with contagion to music, totally unforgettable.- Why do some people hear every musical tone in irrepressible color, like fireworks?- Why do snippets of songs lodge in the brain for days, weeks, years, even a lifetime?This is my introduction to Oliver Sacks.
I know I’m socially deficient regarding things music, and maybe I wanted to discover what power music holds over people.
و عن كوني لا املك فكرة حاليا عن تلك المداخل او الوسائل ، و ان كنت انوي بحثها مستقبلا ،،لأعثر الآن على سند (الى حد ما ، ليس سيئا كبداية لبحثي على الأقل !
هو هذا الكتاب الذي بين يدي الآن :مع انقطاع المدخلات السمعية الطبيعية ، قد تصبح القشرة السمعية مفرطة الحساسية بقدرات مضاعفة للتخيلات الموسيقية (وحتى للهلوسات السمعية أحيانا) ، هناك ظاهرة مشابهة في أولئك الذين يفقدون بصرهم فبعض الناس الذين يصابون بالعمى ، قد يملكون على نحو متناقض ، تخيلات بصرية مضاعفة ****************************************أريد أن أقول إنها تأتي من السماء ، كما قال موزارت ...
و عودة الى الكتاب ..
وحتى التاسع ، ففي تلك السن يهدأ الانسان عن ذي قبل ..
Oliver Sacks has been one of my favorite authors ever since I first read The Man Who Mistook his Wife for a Hat. I still completely amazed, and a little bit disturbed, when I think back to his account of the woman who lost her sense of proprioception - the internal body sense that lets you know your body is there, even when you have your eyes closed.
His subjects in that book were all his patients at one point - and that kind of clinical closeness gave a depth to his analysis that is slightly lacking in some of his later writing.
This was unexpectedly touching. I'm glad I finally read it. Review to come.
I was flying forwards. Bewildered. I looked around. I saw my own body on the ground. I said to myself, ‘Oh shit, I’m dead.’ I saw people converging on the body. I saw a woman – she had been standing waiting to use the phone right behind me - position herself over my body, give it CPR … I floated up the stairs – my consciousness came with me. I saw my kids, had the realization that they would be okay. Then I was surrounded by a bluish-white light … an enormous feeling of well-being and peace. Th
I said to myself, ‘Oh shit, I’m dead.’ I saw people converging on the body.
He was subsequently divorced and continued with his incredible sudden love for music and composition.I am not religious and I am not a believer, as such, but I know there is another life after death.
Well I do anyway.It was fascinating when Sacks said that there are certain musical pieces that he has to listen to over and over again before he moves on to a new composer.
Music – my… What else can I possibly say!I absolutely loved this book and continually look at it.
One story involves a man getting hit by lightning and afterward having a newly acquired and deeply profound love of music (almost any music, too), profound to the point that he would feel a euphoria akin to religio-mystical rapture or an extremely pleasurable drug experience in all situations if music began to play.
Her brain simply couldn't sort out the frequencies properly.Full Lecture by Oliver Sacks on Musicophilia:http://fora.tv/2007/10/21/Oliver_Sack...Shorter clips on the same subject:Amusia - total inability to hear music as "music"Music Therapy and Parkinson'sThe Power of RhythmStrokes, Language, and Music - overcoming aphasia through musicBright Blue Music - synesthesia and musicEarworms - the neurology of catchy tunesAmnesia and MusicBolt From The Blue - the one I mentioned about the guy being struck by lightning and so forth...
!....وحدها الموسيقى تبقىفي الكتاب حالات لبشر ما يقدروش يفتكروا أساميهم ما يقدروش يفتكروا إزاي يمسكوا
I am a huge sucker for pop science about human consciousness. Sacks, unfortunately, has the habit of boring me with far too many anecdotes which he fails to link in any progression of Greater Understanding.
I really tried to perservere with this book, but after 100 pages I had to put it down.
First, although marketed to a popular audience (even making it to the best sellers list), there are massive amounts of musical jargon and a background of musical knowledge would be extrememly helpful.
Third, I was also disappointed that specific discussion of music was usually about classical music.
No mention of the effects of more popular musical genres was made in the portion I read.Other than a few interesting accounts and facts, I obtained little enjoyment or education from this book that seemed so promising.
Sacks relives the pathologies of musical response in his patients while working at Beth Abraham Hospital.
We integrate all of these and “construct” music in our minds...” ---Oliver Sacks, MD Sacks' deeply warm and sympathetic study is about pathologies of musical response and erudition gained from a "normal" faculty of music.
having a perfect tenor voice yet he showed no emotion, except when he sang---as if music brought him to life).Exceptional study and storytelling by Dr. Oliver Sacks.
The connections that music impart and patient studies (L-Dopa) are in “Awakenings.” I found interesting the case study of a 42-year-old man struck by lightning, then he developed an exigent thirst for music learned to play piano and compose.
It's hard to tell without a lot of background knowledge on mr sacks and his previous works, but it seems as if in part this book is a culmination of much of his previous works and observations.A peripheral discussion that continued to dance through my head while reading this book is what is the "best" music to listen to?
Ultimately, though, I came away with much more reverance for the power of music, more convinced that music just might be the surest and most direct path to self and the soul.
استحوذ هذا الكتاب على كل تفكيري لمدة 4 أيام على التوالي :)على الرغم من كونه كتاباً موجهاً للأطباء إلا أن الأفكار و الحوادث التي عرضها بطريقة سهلة و مبسطة تجعلها مفهومة و محببة لكل من يقرؤها يتحدث عن حالات خاصة و غريبة متعلقة بالموسيقا عند كل من المرضى و الأصحاء مما يجعلك في بعض الأحيان تشك في أن الدكتور ساكس يتحدث عنك في كتابهمن أروع ما قرأت ^_^
لم استطع انهائه ربما بالمستقبل أعود إليه
Proprio il fatto che esistano così tanti e così vari disturbi associati alla percezione e alla produzione musicale testimonia quanto profondo e articolato sia il rapporto tra la mente umana e la musica, che come anche le altre arti sembra essere quasi superflua da un punto di vista evolutivo e nel contempo gioca un ruolo fondamentale nell'esistenza individuale e nel tessuto connettivo delle società umane (in particolare per la sua relazione con la matematica e con la linguistica).Per “musicofilia” Sacks intende l'attitudine quasi esclusivamente umana per la musica (il canto degli uccelli nasce da un'esigenza chiaramente adattativa e non risulta quasi mai realmente creativo).
It seemed that at times Sacks had to stretch to find patients with some of the musical conditions he described -- not a good sign, since some of his best work consists of describing individuals' conditions and then working out what might be causing them.
It made me wonder, what would motivate someone to write a book if he didn't have the necessary new material?...infants at six months can readily detect all rhythmic variations, but by twelve months their range has narrowed, albeit sharpened.
So I was really pumped to read a book about how music affects you.But the thing is, all these concept aren't explored.
Even more, some of them are very repetitive.
In this book, I've read in so many chapters about how people with certain disorders and illnesses have a special reaction to music.
Yes, there are many diseases, but it just got really repetitive.
But I did learn some new things.
I wasn't anymore convinced that music is amazing, because I already knew that, but I did learn some new things neurologically speaking about music.
But this book really was so repetitive and boring.
Starts off with a fairly unsatisfying collection of anecdotes around loss or gain of musical ability.
Rather, music is processed by dedicated machinery in our brains and can affect us in profound and surprising ways.There are tantalising implications that humans have the capacity for much greater musical ability, if it were developed correctly.
One suggestion is that people in Western countries miss out on developing 'perfect pitch', because our languages are agnostic to the tone of voice used - unlike the sing-song tonality of say, Chinese.Evidently one of the few books around on the subject - worth a read but not Sacks' best.
I get the feeling Oliver Sacks likes to reuse material. He retells the stories of his clients throughout his books, always with references to his other work. This isn't entirely bad, but I had to speed through some parts that were a tad bit repetitive. The subject matter is fascinating, and perfectly delivered for the layman(Which I happen to be). I have a newfound respect for the power of music therapy and music itself.
Non ho potuto dedicargli il tempo che avrei voluto, quindi il primo consiglio che mi sento di dare su questo libro è: leggetelo con calma.
Ciò scritto, si tratta di un libro ricco di contenuti e naturalmente interessante per chiunque sia interessato alla musica, alle dinamiche del cervello umano o a entrambe le cose.
Un testo ricco di curiosità e aneddoti che ha la caratteristica di rifiutare la forma del romanzo o della storia unica per frammentarsi in una serie di minisaggi su singole persone e/o patologie.
Gradevole la scelta di un corpo del testo più grande in presenza di un tema tanto denso.
Sacks has always been lauded for his fluid, personable style, and for good reason, but in the wake of classics such as The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat and Uncle Tungsten, his writing seems excessively florid and repetitive—neither tight enough nor substantial enough to match the subject he loves so well.My other criticism is that for all it's heartstopping wonder, Musicophelia rarely buckles down to the core of things.
Only at specific points does Sacks truly explore the philosophical or psychological implications of his subjects.

Musicofilia è un saggio da leggere sicuramente in pillole, cosa che non ho fatto io.
Ciò nonostante, questo bel tomo di 400 pagine, rimane un interessantissimo saggio sul rapporto cervello/musica.
Quanta rilevanza ha la musica nelle nostre vite?
Perché in alcuni pazienti post traumatici o post coma insorge tutto a un tratto uno spirito musicale?
Perché i tormentoni ci rimangono in testa?
la muiscoterapia è davvero efficace?
Dico che é da centellinare in quanto non ferrata con il linguaggio medico/neurologico.
Perciò, se non lo siete neppure voi, be careful.
Ma se siete amanti della musica e/o curiosi, consigliassimo.
كتاب مرهق للغاية :( أعشق الكتب العلمية جداً و خصوصاً تلك الكتب لإخصائي علم الاعصاب و اوليفر ساكس يتميز باسلوبه الادبي الرفيع و معلوماته الواسعة بعيداً عن عالم الطب و دخوله إلى أجواء المرضى الداخلية و الاهتمام النادر بهم على عكس ما اعتدناه من جفاء الاطباء..معلوماتي الموسيقية صفر ، وانا لا استطيع أن أترك كتاباً دون أكماله ما دام "أكرام الكتاب ختمه" و كذلك لا أستطيع أكمال كتاب دون أن افهمه ..لذا اضطررت إلى الاستعانة بالكوكل عدة مرات و تحميل كتب و مقاطع فيديو و اغاني لإعرف ما يتحدث عنه ..الكتاب مثير للاهتمام و يستحق التعب :)
This is nonfiction neuroscience.....about the brain and music and how each of them can effect the other. Some of the science was fascinating. I also enjoyed the plethora of (case studies) stories the author cited. All the examples were different. I really felt for some of these patients because some of this sounded like awful afflictions, not a gift.
Woooooooa!!! Heeeeeeey!!!! Look at me I'm Oliver Sacks and I'm tellin you some more wacky stuff about brains.oh-la-la. I'm so fancy.(interesting topic but I prefer the podcast interview to the book - which I was able to stick with through apx. chapter 6 before throwing in the towell. http://www.npr.org/templates/story/st...)
ليس أفضل كتب المؤلف التي قرأتها، جيد في فصوله الأولى، سردي قصصي في آخره.قد يدرك الإنسان الموسيقى حسي
