https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25102.A_Game_of_You
We’re back in the game!!! Creative Team:Writer: Neil GaimanIllustrators: Shawn McManus, Colleen Doran, Bryan Talbot, George Pratt & Stan WochCovers: Dave McKeanLetterer: Todd Klein FAIRY TALES, NATURE’S FORCES, BLOOdY WITCHCRAFT & COMPACT’S TERMS I am truly GLAD that my struggles in Season of Mists (the fourth volume) were left there and Neil Gaiman played with my mind a game, a wonderful game of words and images, a game where ironically you are given the rules of it until the end, but
What is a Dream-King without dreamers?What is Death without living people?Morpheus and Death are powerful, they are members of the Endless, however not matter how powerful they are, they still need people.Without people, their realms are left without purpose, without content, without richness.We aren’t islands and we shouldn’t wish to be ones.While you read more and more The Sandman, you realice that while Morpheus, the Dream-King, is indeed the title character, the story gets its impact thanks to the recurrent characters, that even you don’t realize that they will be recurrent until you meet them again.
I was really surprised at how weak the writing was in this volume; it felt more like a spin-off than part of the actual series.
Dream was barely present; he was more of a side character, only appearing briefly in the series that was named after him.
If felt so off centre and removed from The Sandman myth: the very thing that makes this series so compelling, intelligent and cool.
Perhaps this is just a problem with my edition?
She clearly had some past with Dream, though it is never divulged to us.
I have read the first five volumes of The Sandman, and so far this is only my third favorite (after A Doll's House and Seasons of Mist).
As the title indicates, this tale is about human psychology and the stratagems we employ both to hide from ourselves and to endure what we must.
But it is also more than mere psychologizing, for it is metaphysical too, suggesting that our dreams may be rooted in an extra-personal reality, a pre-planned landscape which can be invaded and dominated by others.
I love Barbie.
I love Wanda.
I love Thessaly.Truly, this was one hell of a tightly-woven story including inner-worlds, cuckoo birds, ancient witches, pulling down the moon, and death.There's no way in hell that I could really boil it down to essentials.
As a whole it seriously rocks and hits me in the feels.
Being wise and forgiving is only a part of it.Hell, I see that holy-bitch at Wanda's funeral and I see her just acting in her nature, just like the Cuckoo, and I feel like Thessaly, knowing I really ought to behave like Barbie.
Both fantastic, strange, and deep as hell and sharp.
A Game of You, the 5th volume in the Sandman series, is my favorite so far.
One thing I've noticed Gaiman is very good at is picking up little threads he dropped in previous stories and building on them (this was one of my favorite things about Buffy; there's nothing more rewarding for a viewer/reader than a story that doesn't forget its past).
The most notable one that gets picked up in this volume is the main character, Barbie, who was a minor character in The Doll's House.
Sandman continues to confound and confusticate, though that’s good thing in this instance. This volume took a sharp left turn from the last one, with a minor character taking center stage and Dream playing only a small supporting role. It’s a little bit like watching a Ghostbusters spinoff where Louis Tully gets lead billing and Peter Venkman shows up to crack a few jokes toward the end before high-fiving Slimer in a closing freeze frame (which, incidentally, is a spinoff I’d watch the crap out of). Keep that wonderful weirdness coming, Gaiman.
The story takes place partly in a New York tenement, peopled with oddball characters that for some reason reminded me of Will Eisner, and partly in a fantasy realm that is lost in a far corner of Morpheus' Dreamcountry.
More than making a statement about social acceptance and exotic lifestyles, I think Gaiman chose these borderline characters in order to show how adversity can help show humans in their true light and how they can get out of trouble by sticking together and helping each other out.Not to get into too much details about the plot, but Barbie gets trapped in a dream by a servant of the Cuckoo, and her neighbours summon the Moon Goddess to help them follow up and rescue her, only to provoke a cataclysm into the real world.
Δεν περίμενα να συμπαθήσω τόσο πολύ την Barbie και την Ονειρική της Χώρα! Από τους καλύτερους τόμους της σειράς μέχρι στιγμής!
This came into my bookstore and I hadn't read it in a couple years, plus it's the one with the transwoman in it, and I was feeling emotionally vulnerable.
It makes sense that she resonated for me when I didn't know what it was like to be trans- she reads VERY MUCH like a transwoman written by somebody who's not one.
Anyway, yeah, this is good, it makes me feel comfortable dismissing Neil Gaiman as somebody I don't care about.
Nevertheless, A Game of You proved to be a daring story centered on women from different walks of life: Barbie (whom we previously encountered in the second volume); the lesbian couple Hazel and Foxglove, the transgendered man Wanda/Alvin and the mysterious college student Thessaly.
The story of Wanda/Alvin is also very stirring and emotional, and its conclusion is one of the most unforgettable moments in the series for me.Dream, on the other hand, says goodbye to another lover, and warns the women that they must take heed not to endanger themselves by their own hand because the only thing that truly oppresses them is the fact that they have learned to love their bondage.
Στον πρώτο τόμο της σειράς ο συντάκτης και έχων το γενικό πρόσταγμα αυτού του εγχειρήματος, Karen Burger, μιλάει για την εξέλιξη αυτής του Sandman.
Αλλά κανείς δεν μπορούσε ούτε καν να συνειδητοποιήσει την ιδιαίτερη πορεία που θα ακολουθούσε η αφήγηση, μακριά από οτιδήποτε κλισέ έχει το μέσο, πόσο θα απογειωνόταν η φαντασία και η διήγηση θα άγγιζε επίπεδα που θα του χάριζαν όλα αυτά τα βραβεία.
Αν τελικά κάπου οδηγούσε, αν η κλιμάκωση θα μπορούσε να αγγίξει το ζενίθ με έναν και μόνο τόμο αυτός για μένα είναι ο 5ος.Κάθε τόμος είναι διαφορετικός, με τον Sandman να αποτελεί τον κύριο θεματικό άξονα.
Δεν είναι τυχαίο που ο Γκέιμαν χρειάστηκε έναν χρόνο για να ολοκληρώσει τους χαρακτήρες και την ιστορία του κόμικς.
Stephen King's basement..." (Wanda to George's head) (91) I love how Gaiman brings back former characters, and is able to intertwine them all.
Gaiman has begun to write from character, and that really helps the story move forward in unpredictable but great ways.
Not only is this a great story, it also functions in tying the previous volumes together.
"But surely you want to go home," (Wanda's aunt to Barbara)"I'm...
Finally, and most punishing to the reader, it deconstructs one such fantasy world, the Land that Barbie has visited in her dreams since childhood, in a very cruel manner.
I was initially unsure exactly what I didn’t really like about this volume (and later read that for many readers this is also their least favorite Sandman story), but after some reflection I think it was this aspect of destroying childhood fantasies and suggesting that they need to be dissolved in order to move on into adulthood.
Es como si la gente…Bueno, que todos tenemos un mundo secreto dentro. Pero todos, todo el mundo… No importa los grises y aburridos que parezcan.Dentro todos tienen mundos inimaginables, magníficos, estúpidos, maravillosos… No solo un mundo, cientos de ellos, o miles. ¿No es algo muy raro? Siempre me atrae como Gaiman juega con sus personajes, los que son secundarios pueden ganar importancia y contar su propia historia, volverse protagonistas, mientras que  Morfeo  el señor del sueño puede pasar
Es como si la gente…Bueno, que todos tenemos un mundo secreto dentro.
Pero todos, todo el mundo… No importa los grises y aburridos que parezcan.Dentro todos tienen mundos inimaginables, magníficos, estúpidos, maravillosos… No solo un mundo, cientos de ellos, o miles.
Siempre me atrae como Gaiman juega con sus personajes, los que son secundarios pueden ganar importancia y contar su propia historia, volverse protagonistas, mientras que  Morfeo  el señor del sueño puede pasar a ser secundario, y volverse incluso un deus ex machina, que aparece solo al final para tratar de enmendar tantos enredos de los mortales, de una manera casi desinteresada.
I got it! I think...
Neil Gaiman'ın efsanevi Sandman Serisi'nin 5.
Ama o bir "Sandman" cildi ve heyecanla beklenmeyi, elinize aldığınızda hemen okunmayı fazlasıyla hak ediyor.
İthaki Yayınları'ndan çıkan kitabı çok daha değerli kılan ise bence açık ara en iyi yabancı fantastik sanatlarda dilimize müthiş eserler kazandıran çevirmen Elif Ersavcı, yayın sorumlusu ve dizi editörü Alican Saygı Ortanca, Emre Aygün ve Ömer Ezer.
Böylesi bir ekibin edebiyatımıza kazandırılan yabancı eserlerdeki yeri her zaman beş yıldızla ifadelendirilebilir.
Karakterler önceki fasiküllere göre üç değil, sanki silik birer iki boyutlu.
Sonuç olarak, dediğim gibi diğer ciltlere göre düşük bir seviyede olabilir ama Sandman seviyorsanız tabii ki kaçırmamnız gerekn bir kitap daha.
After reading issues 29-31 and not enjoying them at all, I expected this volume to be not so good.
However, I liked reading Barbie’s story even if Dream didn’t appear much in this volume.
It was also nice to read about Barbie, a character we’ve met before, and discover more about her.That being said, I’m finding it underwhelming to read the rest of vol 6 especially since they seem to be independent stories and not related.
Thing is, I find stories that start and finish in one issue in Sandman, mostly tedious and uninteresting.
Neil Gaiman is such a gifted storyteller. Again, this collection contains an single and complete story arc, but now the world is large enough to start tying together bits and pieces from other parts of The Sandman storyline.
From the common "oh, Wanda's really a man" to a rather imaginative new form of exclusion with "I'm sorry, but the moon can't take you to dream land because only real women can use her magic."I wish I weren't a completeist.
I wish I'd have just skipped this entire volume beforehand, because then my love for the series would remain untarnished and I'd not have to add Neil Gaiman to the list of writers I adore but I can't think of without cringing.
I picked up this graphic novel because I wanted to relax in the brisk autumn afternoon and think on subjects that were far from my daily life.
These just keep getting better and better. I'm really glad I've stuck with these. I was unsure at first but now I'm absolutely loving them. This was one is probably the most straightforward one but man is it dark. It also is one story with the same characters for the whole volume. I really liked that. Bring on the next one!
This is a great volume focused less on Dream/Morpheus himself than on dream worlds populated by Narnia-like and stuffed animal characters from Barbie's youth, "morphed" into somewhat scarier beings, this being Gaiman, and the dreams of her friends Wanda, a drag Queen, a lesbian couple, a witch named Thessaly, a "street" person who hates dogs, and a scary monster named Cuckoo… and there's a couple gruesome moments in it that just may stay with you… but what also may stay with you is the endorsement it makes for dreams/fantasy/imagination/story (and as with Gaiman, always, the importance of horror/fear in the construction of "reality".
well, that everybody has a secret world inside of them.
I mean everybody, all of the people in the whole world -- no matter how dull and boring they are on the outside.
Inside them they've all got unimaginable, wonderful, stupid, amazing worlds...
It's basically about this small group of women who live in the same apartment building and end up having to go to one of the dream lands to help their friend Barbara, who has gone into a coma (and was briefly introduced in The Sandman, Vol. 2: The Doll's House), fight a villain called the cuckoo.
I really liked Barbara's dream land friends.
So excellent! Being one continuous story line, this one was completely engrossing from start to finish. The Sandman series just keeps getting better and better as we see characters we were introduced to in previous stories pop up again later.
And yes I know this has been said before and will be said after but it’s appropriate.Vol 5 A Game of you stars Barbie and her friends.
An old magic user, a lesbian couple, a murder of crows, and my personal favorite Wanda.It concerns Barbie’s dream overtaken by the cuckoo and what happens as a result.
While this volume doesn’t concern Morpheus too much.
I’d say the main characters dare to be Barbie and Wanda.
The artists bring their A game and so does the writer.5 stars.
Sandman okumak güzel bir düş görmek gibi, bitince gördükleriniz için mutlu ancak bittiği için de üzgün buluyorsunuz kendinizi. Yine çok güzeldi. Son iki cilttir bütün bir ciltte tek bir hikayenin anlatılıyor olmasından da ayrıca mutluyum. Bir de Gaiman'ın sonsözü doğduğum günden bir gün sonra yazmış olması anlamsızca gülümsetti. Umarım İthaki bu sefer elini çabuk tutar da sonraki cildi çok vakit geçmeden okuyabiliriz.
Amazing from start to finish. Perfect pacing, excellent story, interesting topics, and no time wasted. Amazing exposition and all; best story arc so far.
4.5 / 5Desolada y gris como una tarde lluviosa. Y al mismo tiempo capaz de dibujarte una sonrisa triste en el rostro. Una historia que simplemente me ha dejado vacío.
6 stars! Neil Gaiman’s “Sandman” series just keeps getting better and better every time I read them and the fifth volume “A Game of You” definitely does not disappoint me! This time, Dream (Morpheus) is dealing with a world that may look cute on the outside but on the inside, a sinister force is at work here and it is up to Dream to save the day!In this volume, “A Game of You,” a young woman named Barbie (think of Ken and Barbie, the dolls that every little girl used to play with) who starts su
Neil Gaiman’s “Sandman” series just keeps getting better and better every time I read them and the fifth volume “A Game of You” definitely does not disappoint me!
Also, there is so much killing in this volume that might be too disturbing for readers who do not like reading about murders in novels.Overall, “The Sandman: A Game of You” is easily the most disturbing yet the most exciting of Neil Gaiman’s fantastic “Sandman” series and it is definitely a favorite of mine that fans should definitely check out!
As long as you live, no matter what happens, you always have the sweet imaginary friends of your childhood - love, acceptance, beauty, charm, hope of glory, respect - to protect your core essence, those protective and soothing landscapes cocooning your awareness of any sense of your mortality, given you by culture, religion and a loving childhood.At least, you felt safe until overwhelming threats and horror broke down the walls of your living dream, fracturing the internal infrastructure of 'happily ever after' you built, and suddenly you find the filters of your perception are tearing apart to show you the actual blank oblivion of nothingness beyond!Welcome to Neil Gaiman's Sandman series, volume 5.
Perhaps I'll come back and craft a more eloquent review at some future point, but for now, I have few words. This was, thus far, my favorite volume of the Sandman collection. It is still haunting me, even after a night's sleep (which it infected with some of the most intense dreaming I've ever had...). It was stunning, and I can't wait to re-read it and discover all that I've surely missed.
