https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12331767-high-rise
"A low crime-rate doctor," she told him amiably, "is a sure sign of social deprivation."Anthony Royal built the Titanic of skyscrapers.  A state of the art, megalithic structure suitable for 2,000 tenants. It is a self-contained environment with everything a tenant would need such as shopping or exercise or even schools for their kids. The people the building attracts are white collar, well educated, professionals. The apartments sell out quickly and as everyone start to settle into their new li
A bottle drops from a higher floor and shatters on Dr. Robert Laing's balcony and it is equivalent to the first canon fired on Fort Sumter.
The perceived richest people, where Anthony Royal resides, are on the upper levels.
The middle level people, where Dr. Robert Laing reside, are resentful of the upper levels, but also becoming more disdainful of the lower levels.
The trash is accumulating on the ground floor, the trash chutes become jammed and more and more trash is being hoisted over the side of the building creating an intolerable situation for the lower tenants.
Our wealthier tenants are welcome within our spacious penthouse apartments - where they may indulge in all the varied delights typically enjoyed by society's creme de la creme.
Our middle-class tenants will find themselves completely at home within our perfectly unremarkable mid-level apartments - ideally situated to allow residents to gaze longingly at their social betters above and scornfully upon their social inferiors below.
Our more, shall we say, "blue collar" tenants have free range of the lower floors - where the faulty plumbing, cramped living situations, and generally inadequate facilities will no doubt ring a comfortingly familiar bell to many.
A bell that tolls for bloody revolution!Our amenities include:* High-speed elevators and lavish swimming pools to commandeer!
As I was walking along the aisles of the bookstore, I suddenly heard a little raspy voice, coming from one of the shelves. "Psst, four-eyes! Over here!" "Huh?"It was J.G. Ballard's novel,  "High-Rise" , talking to me. "Don't you look like a jolly chap! All happy and stuff. Not a worry in the world. And so decent! Why are you so goddamn decent all the time?" "Huh? Are you supposed to be talking?" "I do whatever I damn well please! Tell me, you look like the kind of goody two shoes who actually LI
The early pages in the book were eerily familiar in fact, and from the familiar it dragged me into a nightmare of which I felt it had become inescapable, even in reality.I myself don't live in a high-rise, but in an apartment building with five floors, along with about 15 households.
Posted at Heradas ReviewA disturbing/enthralling allegory - class struggle, self deception, and the animalistic brutality concealed just below the surface of human civilization.
There is a simple story of ascent/descent at play, but quite a bit of expressive analogy hiding between the lines.
There are three main characters, each representing a differing class; lower, middle and upper.
This isn't immediately apparent, but becomes clear through their differing motivations and desires as society in the High-Rise begins to break down.
Each of their stories play out to their logical, disturbing conclusions.
331. High Rise, J.G. Ballard (James Graham Ballard)High-Rise is a 1975 novel by British writer J. G. Ballard. The story describes the disintegration of a luxury high-rise building as its affluent residents gradually descend into violent chaos. As with Ballard's previous novels Crash (1973) and Concrete Island (1974), High-Rise explores the ways in which modern social and technological landscapes could alter the human psyche in provocative and hitherto unexplored ways. It was adapted into a film
As with Ballard's previous novels Crash (1973) and Concrete Island (1974), High-Rise explores the ways in which modern social and technological landscapes could alter the human psyche in provocative and hitherto unexplored ways.
در این چرخه، ساکنان برج به سه بخش: کلاسیک دنیای مدرن، یعنی: طبقات پایین، طبقات میانی و بالایی برج، تقسیم می‌شوند، و هر یک از ساکنان بر اساس ساخته‌ پرداخته‌ های ذهن خویش از طبقات دیگر، آنان را دشمن خویش می‌پندارند، و به تخریب و محدود کردن امکانات برج برای طبقات دیگر، می‌پردازند.
To give Ballard's High-Rise three stars does very little to capture its strengths, but more importantly, its ultimate failure as a novel.
I'm going to try and do that in my review here, but just in case my rambling goes right off the rails, check out Jeffrey's spot-on assessment here.What brought me to this book is an endless fascination with "group in peril" stories that look at how quickly our civilized veneer can be stripped down to our lizard brain impulses.
Maybe this novel is his statement on the rise of urban disconnect -- as we cram more and more people into their self-contained units, living elbow to chin, something fundamental to our higher-brain humanity is being eroded away.
His short stories are famous for being vivid and imaginative, not to mention incredibly prophetic, but let me say that this book is like nothing I've read before (perhaps Saramago emulates in “Blindness” the mass hysteria of a people left to fend for themselves [or who prefer it that way] in a similar way… it has some traces of “Lord of the Flies” [and Margaret Atwood definitely owes him for her own dips into the realm of sci-fi, not to mention Don Delillo] and even the film “George A.
These people are the REAL zombies.Indeed, it’s a horror novel; and one of the best at that.
Like Concrete Island, High-Rise depicts the psychological dangers inherent in modern life.
While the movement of the story parallels the upward movement of Wilder, a literal social climber who spends half the novel climbing from his second floor apartment to Royal’s penthouse at the top of the building, the central character is Laing who, Royal observes, was probably the high-rise’s “most true tenant” (91).
'High-Rise' was written in 1975 (43 years ago!), right after Crash (1973) and Concrete Island (1974), but he seems to GET the psychology of Twitter and Facebook.
He gets Trump.
He GETS Trump hotel.
It is easy to just call this novel a Lord of the Flies for adults, or a LOTF in a high-rise apartment complex, but that summary misses the unique vision of civilization Ballard is painting.
Ballard was painting our now.
His isn't an optimistic vision, but it is kinda amazing.
I read Concrete Island and Crash YEARS ago in college, but missed this one.
Storie di ordinaria folliaChi non ha mai assistito a litigi tra condomini per l'uso delle parti comuni, per il gioco a pallone dei bambini in giardino?
Mettiamoci le varie discussioni tipiche dei grandi condominii.Il risultato forse sarebbe una esplosione di violenza devastante, come quella rappresentata da Ballard in questo romanzo angosciante.Alla base della regressione che avviene tra i condomini ci sono forse le differenze e le aspettative sociali, che causano prima una generica irritazione, poi antagonismo, poi insopportazione, poi odio, poi cattiveria e per finire follia pura.Forse, sotto sotto, seguiamo le regole e la morale solo in particolari condizioni di benessere e quando sono soddisfatti i nostri bisogni primari.
I just don't think we are meant to be friends.Other than Crash, High-Rise is the only other thing that I have ever been interested in reading by Ballard.
It's quite anti-climactic when you think about it.I also really disliked Ballard's representation of women in this book, which I think a lot of people have commented on in their reviews.
Ballard's bizarre obsession with male sexuality is also made incredibly apparent in this book, with frequent reference to one character's 'heavy loins'.
A surreal world in which the thin veneer of ‘civilised’ life is tested again and again.High Rise (1975) is a novel set in a tower block that reaches high into the sky.
The universal human characteristics of self interest, distrust, cruelty and fearfulness soon take over.The inhabitants of the tower - lawyers, industrialists, doctors, airline pilots etc find it harder and harder to connect with the outside world.
I don’t think High Rise is as effective as later novels exploring the same themes such as Cocaine Nights, Super Cannes and Millennium People but it’s a thought provoking introduction to the dark (and not very cheerful) world view of J G Ballard.
If we feel that it is no longer necessary to obey to civil manners, it is immediately clear that primal urges are only skin deep.The destruction of the social life of the High Rise apartment complex of 40 floors starts simple enough.
The next day, numerous bottles are dropped from lots of balconies, followed by furniture, which is subsequently followed by the blocking of elevators to certain floors.
Life in the High Rise is now solely focussed on fighting, finding food and leaving scary messages on the corridor walls.I cannot recall having ever read a novel similar to this one before.
The selection and the separation are achieved by making all the members of the group live together in a new high-rise building at the outskirts of London, first brought together by common interest and similar liberal jobs, later united by the traumatic experiences they are going through.
Two major forces though work against them: the infrastructure that was supossed to provide every comfort required by modern living is faulty both in design and in execution - elevators get stuck between floors, electricity comes and goes, garbage chutes are clogged, air conditioning is unreliable, parking places are distributed far from the entrances to the high-rise, etc.
Well, it is a valiant attempt to replicate Ballard's bizarre and surrealistic story of social elites battling the lower classes in a fancy new high-rise and willfully descending into barbarism and hedonism.
Instead of living in some dreary suburb with boring, prosaic neighbors, why not join an elite group of young and successful professionals, like-minded and sophisticated, with immaculate taste and superb social connections?
In the following passages, Ballard describes the new stratified society of the high-rise in detail:What angered Wilder most of all about life in the apartment building was the way in which an apparently homogeneous group of high-income professional people had split into three distinct, hostile camps.
Άνευρο και ανούσιο, γραμμένο, θαρρώ αποκλειστικά, για να προκαλέσει, προξενεί τόση βαρεμάρα στον αναγνώστη του, που αναρωτιέσαι πως, δεν μπορεί, κάποιος αναριθμητισμός πρέπει να υπάρχει στις σελίδες του βιβλίου, αδύνατον να είναι μόλις διακόσιες πενήντα πέντε!Ανέμπνευστες περιγραφές πράξεων βίας που μοιάζουν διαρκώς να επαναλαμβάνονται, ανεπαρκής επεξήγηση των συνθηκών που οδήγησαν (ή συνέτειναν) στην επικράτηση της ανομίας και του χάους στον ουρανοξύστη, και παντελής ανυπαρξία οποιουδήποτε συμβολισμού σε όσα ζοφερά διαδραματίζονται στους σαράντα ορόφους του επιβλητικού οικοδομήματος της ιστορίας.
Any book that promises rich people acting all Lord of the Flies on one another is going to catch my interest.
Sort of like a shopping mall you live in with a couple of thousand other people.
The residents with kids resent being told that their kids can't go certain places.
What starts off as resentment soon escalates to physical intimidation, that leads to people getting beat-up and things dying and then a full scale barbaric war for territory and women.
The residents start using the whole building as a garbage dump and toilet.
The people live covered in their filth, they are starving.
He describes people filming the acts of violence instead of intervening to keep things under control; that gave me an unpleasant shiver, in this day and age of smart-phone camera addiction...Of course, it is unrealistic to think that a complete social collapse would remain localized indefinitely in a huge apartment building, but realism is not the point of this story: the high-rise is an extreme metaphor for a world without rules, and of how easy it is to slip into chaos when you know you can get away with whatever it is you feel like doing.
Unlike Lord of the Flies, where our characters are completely stranded, or even other dystopian novels where civilization has broken down everywhere, the High Rise is the only place that is affected by this ridiculous decline of modern man.
At one point, one of the characters is standing on his balcony after the High Rise has descended into utter chaos, and he sees a police car pulling up to the building.
Services such as elevators, garbage disposal and electricity intermittently fail and soon vandalism and violence follow.So far, so like the reality of numerous high-rise housing projects except that this one is full of medium to high income earners and luxuries rather than poor people.
In an interview at the end of the book, Ballard talks about how his obsession with the frailty of the veneer we call civilisation stems from how it was ripped from Shanghai overnight by the Japanese invasion that put him in a POW camp when he was in his early teens - but that was coercion.
A new social type was being created by the apartment building, a cool, unemotional personality impervious to the psychological pressures of high-rise life, with minimal needs for privacy, who thrived like an advanced species of machine in the neutral atmosphere.High-Rise is both bleak and prescient, there's no doubt in that.
What Ballard didn't anticipate was how one could make such distinctions, incorporate such new traits and attitudes, how such evolution could be made portable with an Apple Watch or a stroll through Whole Foods.
Not much time is wasted on character outside of an establishment of type.
I didn't like  the book, but that's Ballard's point.

As in, "I will read everything this author ever wrote" loved the book.
I enjoyed this a lot more than I did Golding's book.From here on out, the whole thing is pretty much one big spoiler.
I'm not sure why this happened, and what Ballard's assumptions were on this point.*The voyeurism was a nice touch, with people taking polaroids and film of violent events, to the extent that negatives were littering the floors.
In a way, it is a form of submission.*Also, I love that in the future people will have vinyl records and polaroids again.
I dont understand the hype with this book.I didn't like it at all.
High Rise is a horrific novel, published in 1975, about a building that begins to have a strange hold over its residents.
The residents begin to throw louder and wilder parties and begin leaving the building less and less often to go to work.
This novel was many things at once: a horror story, a dystopian science fiction story, and most impressively a chilling social commentary.
The writing was excellent and I look forward to watching the movie which came out in the past year.Interestingly, J.
Succede e basta.Mi spiace, ma questo modo di intendere la narrativa non è assolutamente il genere che fa per me.
Tratteggiare qualche “fuori di testa” che fa questa o quella cazzata, senza fornire alcun percorso emotivo o psicologico che giustifichi l’evolversi della situazione, mi pare un discorso completamente sterile.
Alla fine, non ne sappiamo un accidenti di più di quello che sapevamo all’inizio.
Senza contare che manca anche qualsiasi piacere nel godimento della scrittura, che è più piatta di un asse da stiro.
Good concept: to explore social disintegration as facilitated by - and contained within - a high rise building.
But I had issues with the book: firstly, I was increasingly uncomfortable with the women in this text (vulnerable wives open to sexual assault, passive victims, evil witch-like figures, Freudian-destructive mothers - not a single woman written on an even level with the men), secondly, the emphasis on the strong physique of the character Wilder, his nakedness and masculinity (the reader is constantly reminded of Wilder's penis) and thirdly, the sense that Ballard didn't get any further than the meaningless violence, surely only one aspect of a possible high-rise anarchy.
A dark mirror of the human psyche conjured with prose so crisp that every sentence on the page crackles like a downed power line spewing high voltage.
Ballard's mistrust of technology and humanity is so alluring that I couldn't help but find it all very logical that the occupants of a state-of-the-art high-rise would lose their shit in a serious way, form clans and wage war with other floors, and eventually go completely feral.
As far as I am concerned, in every human heart stands a forty-story tower, the halls littered with garbage bags, broken bottles, graffiti, urine and the blood of the weak.
But even though the people rotated, there were some constants in the house: tension, usually between the ground floor and the basement-dwellers; unclaimed, uncleaned messes all over the house; garbage piling up and not being taken out; inter-roommate stealing of anything from food to weed to money; broken appliances that never got fixed (e.g. the washing machine, throughout the entire two and a half years I lived there, had a tendency to stop at various places mid-cycle, and you had to manually restart it by lifting up the lid and slamming it down in just such a way); and so on.I had guesses about the causes of all this trouble, and all those guesses were confirmed by High Rise.
The thing about Ballard is that he’s a great writer without being a good writer.
He’s almost a conceptual artist and in fact The Atrocity Exhibition was originally a catalogue for a show at the ICA." -The architect I read this with loved it.
Immediately she understood it as an amazing conceptual work, not unlike an elaborate verbal blueprint, and thought Ballard's architectural insights were spot on.
34)-"After a few cocktails, she was hyper-animated, and flicked on and off like a confused television monitor revealing glimpses of extraordinary programs which Laing could only understand when he was drunk himself." (p.
171)-Sometimes Ballard can't resist the urge to lay down an unnecessary thesis statement.
