https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498886.Grinding_It_Out
When Ray Kroc wrote this book back in 1977, he was optimistic about the growth of McDonald's' breakfast.
And suggested they might even one day serve pizza (LOVED IT!).So this is obviously a little dated.
This guy didn't kick off McDonald's until he was 52.
Which makes me feel a lot better about my career.
He's plain-spoken, and rough around the edges, but that only adds to the realism of the portrayal of someone who made mistakes, chewed out his managers on occasion, and failed at two marriages.Because for better or worse, Ray Kroc created a global institution.
I re-read this book after watching the movie. What an inspiring story about persistence! Ray Kroc was truly a great American entrepreneur. My only regret is that I did not get a chance to interview him for one of my books!
In recent times, it seems that those who rise to success are always bright, young, and precocious.
They hit on an idea and in a relatively short amount of time rode their prowess and an economic wave to success.
This was not Ray Kroc founder of the modern McDonalds.
Ray Kroc was a journeyman of sales moving from one product to another.
When he met the McDonalds brothers and looked to expand their brand he was 52 years old!
But as the book states, he simply made it a habit to grind it out.
This is definitely a book to read over and over.
This was an amazing read. It simply amazes me that he started MCDonalds at age 52 and in 25 years had over 4000 stores and 3 billion in sales. Favorite quote: "PRESS On: Nothing in the world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not; nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not; the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent" - Ray Kroc
I did not know about Ray Kroc's story until I watched "The Founder (2016)".
Initially I debated whether it was worth reading this book, having watched the movie already.Turns out it was a great decision.
This book adds another dimension to the McDonald's story that the movie does not do complete justice too.
It is very interesting to read and understand Ray Kroc's internal though process as he made decisions that seems ridiculous at the time.There a lot of things to learn from Ray Kroc's story, primarily because it is so different from the contemporary examples of success achieved at a young age.
I'm not really sure how this book ended up in my to-read pile, but it was short and so I grabbed it for a recent plane trip.
I kind of wish I had been around when having a McDonalds open in your town was an exciting prospect (although I imagine it is sort of like what I experienced when a Container Store opened 2 miles from me recently).
He also strived to be fair with his store owners and with his suppliers and enrich everyone.
I'm sure that some of the owners and suppliers might have had a different take on things.
Can't finished it. Boring as hell...
I can see why they'd be inspiring, but they seem rather typical and unsurprising.What impressed me much more was Kroc's ability to tell a good story -- storytelling was clearly fundamental to his success both as a salesman and as a fast food entrepreneur.
Kroc himself has come to be seen, in the wake of The Founder, as a far more problematic figure, whether that's true or not (his story about why he opened a McDonald's across the street from the McDonald brothers' later restaurant "the Big D" and drove them out of business is very, very different from what The Founder suggests).
Ray was an average American who simply worked at his goals until he attained them.
His story is very similar to Sam Walton's 'Made In America' and they both had similar approaches to how they ran their businesses.
Ray was simply a brilliant salesman, promoter and story teller.
His enthusiasm and common sense approach to business made him VERY successful and wealthy along the way to the top.
This is a very inspiring, short and to the point, entertaining story of a fellow American who took years of "grinding it out" before he became an "overnight success."
Fascinating corporate success story and fascinating man!Who doesn't dream to be able to launch a second career after his 50's and build a billion USD corporation? Ray Kroc shows we should at least give it a try, life allowing you so.Not the very best literary style, but who cares? Plenty of good ideas on how and what to do if you want to launch your startup after your first quarter of a century professional career.I personally value the corporation and the principles that entail its management, I now understand how did they come up. 5 stars to Mr. Kroc!
One of the first business books I read. It's an amazing success story about the person, who managed to set a goal and achieve it
I enjoyed the documentary more!
Great book - couldn't put it down. Ray Kroc was a genius!
Glad a read this. It was good hear Krocs version of what happened with the McDonald's brothers. The movie was definitely slanted towards them being taken advantage of and run over. That may have been what actually happened but it was nice to hear the other side. You could tell by some of the things Kroc said that he is definitely from a different era then me. All and all he worked hard to make Mcdonalds what it is today, god bless him!! Mmmmm!
Written in 1977, and updated/reissued recently because of the release of the movie 'The Founder' in 2016, this was a good insight into Ray Kroc's business thinking as he took the concept developed by Mac and Dick McDonald and expanded it into America's first fast food restaurant. (I hesitated about calling McD a 'restaurant')His insistence on cleanliness was a constant theme throughout the decades when he dictated what the McD chain had to do to comply with his corporate rules.
It’s pretty unbelievable that when most people were nearing retirement age, Ray Kroc created the most successful restaurant franchise in history.
Starting with a small restaurant in San Bernardino in 1954, to an international operation with over 4,000 sites in 1976, this book shows the rapid growth of McDonalds told by the man at its helm.Throughout the biography, you get to know Ray Kroc as a driven, demanding entrepreneur who was grounded in the company’s operations, while being strategic in its development and management.
But there is no doubt that Ray's creativity and fierce determination is what drove McDonald’s to success.
It could have been that because this book was written 30 years ago (1977), but the style was not what I expected.
There are some good lessons here but the largest is the rewards and consequences of ego.
He created a large charity, owned the San Diego Padres, rubbed elbows with so-and-sos and more.
The ability to think 'I can do this' requires some amount of optimism, ambition, and ego.
There is much to learn from, but not imitate in this book.
Kroc was relentless, created a decentralized command structure, and paid attention to the details.
What else you do, when you invent a whole new world of fast food.
What else you do, when you get lucky at an age, when others stop looking for luck.
An inspiration to those who haven't yet become lucky yet.
An inspiration to those, who think that IQ matters, and they don't have it.
An inspiration to those who are finding it hard to dump their wives or girl friends ( they just have to earn few millions more to get rid of them).
Don't look for prose and beauty of life here.
It's plain simple the world of business.
This was kind of fun. McDonalds is super easy to shit on all the time, but during the 60s it was a really new concept in massive commercial franchising.The guy that started it as a big enterprise, Ray Krok, was in his 50s when he got going. That's interesting. So the book starts with a bunch of strange stuff from the early part of the century. Weird milkshake machine manufacturing scams, the thrilling rise of the paper cut industry, etc. PAPER CUPS USED TO BE CUTTING EDGE.Then it gets into a bunch of McDonald's stuff of course.
His ingenuity and creativity in approaching sales and life is amazing and inspiring! He solved problems by CREATING solutions or finding other people who could. His philosophy of not accepting even the idea of giving up, I think, became the cornerstone of his success, which has impacted millions of people worldwide.
I found this book to be painfully boring. There are a few interesting points but overall it's just a combination of very successful business decisions, drive and passion for McDonald's. I found it dry and without any negative experiences it doesn't create a human story.
Very inspiring read. Enjoyed seeing how it all played out and it begs the question, if this 52 year old man can start over and create an empire- what excuse do we have? (This includes those over 52 too!)
This was a great book about the effect of hard work and a determined attitude. I admire Ray Kroc for remaining 'green' in his thinking and seizing a business opportunity at 52.
The projected cost was $180,000 and he wanted to pay for it by raising the price of hamburgers in our company-owned stores a penny, from fifteen to sixteen cents...the advertising campaign we put together was a smash hit...that was a big lesson for me in the effectiveness of television." (133)*"There is a cross you must bear if you intend to be head of a big corporation: you lose a lot of your friends on the way up." (147) "Usually there's no reason both sides can't come up winners and be happy." (153)The McDonald's hamburger had been 15 cents for 12 years.
Similar to the story of Asa Candler and the birth of Coca-Cola, 52-year old Ray Kroc did not invent McDonalds, however, he did see opportunity where no one else did, took initiative and shaped it into the fast-food behemoth it is today.Kroc narrates his life story as a humble paper cup salesperson through to Milkshake Mixer salesperson and through grit and determination led him through a novel journey to meet the McDonalds Brothers, Richard and Maurice; who were running a successful hamburger stand and the first restaurant to bring in the assembly line concept (service automation - now standard) while focusing on QSC & V, Quality, Service, Cleanliness and Value.Kroc's client centric approach is admirable.
I had vague ideas about Ray Kroc, none of which were accurate.
He was an interesting man with unique ideas about business and life.
I liked his ideas on education.
He doesn't donate to colleges because he believes they are not educating people properly.
I also enjoyed listening to him say that people told him to run for President, as he could run his country like his businesses (sound familiar?).
Ray Kroc says that he declined to do that, because you have to compromise your beliefs in politics and he refused to do that.I'm definitely glad I picked this one up!
I had a hard time putting it down, I liked the writing style and flow of the story.Written by Ray Kroc himself it shows the reader what can be accomplished by someone if you dedicate yourself 100% to something you believe in.
That requirement for perfection is seen throughout the book as Kroc continues to build the McDonalds empire by investing his own capital in to it, taking risks, bringing the right people in even when at times he couldn't afford them but convinced them to believe in his vision then later rewarding them handsomely.In the end Ray Kroc became a very wealthy man but you get from this book that he didn't really care too much about that.
Even Mr' Kroc is unable to acknowledge the consequences of his actions or their effect upon people, such as his deep disappointment with his first wife for not working (for free) for his multiple business start-ups, or rapidly abandoning his second wife for his third under sketchy circumstances.
While Mr. Kroc may have thought 'Grinding it Out' would be a testament to American work ethic to achieve one's goals, it contains an elusive yet pervasive secondary message of 'if you really want to succeed in the business world, abandon any sense of morality or goodwill to your fellow men.'Sure, Mr. Kroc funded or built many wonderful charities.
“I have always believed that each man makes his own happiness and is responsible for his own problems.” - Ray Kroc (opening line of Grinding It Out)“Our aim, of course, was to insure repeat business based on the system’s reputation rather than on the quality of a single store or operator.
I wanted the man closest to the stores to be able to make decisions without seeking directives from headquarters.” - Ray Kroc, Grinding It Out, P138“My wife thinks I should take more time off and just sit in the sun; yet she knows I can’t do that.” - Ray Kroc, Grinding It Out, P197
I thought this book would be popular just because of McDonald’s name.
Very delightful to read!The book mainly talking about his career / business journey.
It was not until around his 50th that he started to work on McDonald’s.
Then his love stories!
He was openly told his quest to married a married woman!
The love of his life.
And how he got rejected and then married somebody else for a while, only to divorce again for the second time to married the married woman (who also got divorced from her spouse).
I admired him.The book is very heartening, because it is written in diary-style.
Totally recommended this heartening auto biography.
