https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157993.The_Little_Prince
It says so right here,' I replied with the comforting stubbornness of an eight-year-old.Later that night, I quietly reread the book and the sad truth clicked, and so did the belated thought that for all the gentle berating of adults in it, this strange and beautiful book was written by one of them and definitely for them, and not for me, and by luring me in with the beautiful pictures it pushed me just a bit further on the inevitable road to adulthood.Or so I see now.Back then, I decided to read the author's biography instead as a distraction from the thoughts that were trying to be a bit more grown-up than my heart cared for - I was the odd kid of a literature teacher mother, after all - just to learn that just after writing this book, Antoine de Saint Exupery died when flying his plane in a war to liberate his country, killed by adults who played a game of war, too dangerous and cruel.
"I have never read this book Twilight.""I think it was blue," said the man.
In Twilight, who joined the Cullen family first?""I told you," said the Little Prince, "that I haven't read this book.
I would very much like to read it.""It is the stupidest book ever written!" said the man."Then why do you answer questions about it all day long?" asked the Little Prince."Because if I don't," sighed the man, "then my friend on asteroid B451 will get ahead of me.
"In Twilight, what color was Edward's car?""I believe you said silver?" answered the Little Prince politely."Thank you," muttered the man.
The fact that we WERE, indeed, children, is a huge part of each of us.
It is possible to shed a few appreciative tears on every page of this book if you entertain the thought that the pilot IS The Little Prince.
Maybe you won't think that--maybe you'll have your own take on the book---that's the magic about it.
If you understand and/or appreciate French, the deliciousness of that fact can affect you in addition to the sweet storyline itself.
The book won't even take you a whole day to read.
574. Le Petit Prince = The Little Prince, Antoine de Saint-ExupéryThe Little Prince (French: Le Petit Prince), first published in 1943, is a novella, the most famous work of French aristocrat, writer, poet, and pioneering aviator Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. The Little Prince is a poetic tale, with watercolour illustrations by the author, in which a pilot stranded in the desert meets a young prince visiting Earth from a tiny asteroid. The story is philosophical and includes social criticism of the
اما فکری کرد و پرسید: اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: تو اهل اینجا نیستی.
نگفتی اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: آدم­ها تفنگ دارند و شکار می­کنند.
اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: چیزی است که پاک فراموش شده.
شهریار کوچولو گفت: رسم و رسوم یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: این هم از آن چیزهایی است که پاک از خاطره ها رفته.
به این ترتیب شهریار کوچولو روباه را اهلی کرد.
شهریار کوچولو گفت: تقصیر خودت است.
شهریار کوچولو برای آن که یادش بماند، تکرار کرد: نهاد و گوهر را چشم سر نمی­بیند.
روباه گفت: آدم­ها این حقیقت را فراموش کرده اند، اما تو نباید فراموشش کنی.

So amazing. I can see many rereads of this in the years to come.
Therefore, I decided simply to share my experience of reading/listening to the book with my daughter along with a couple of thoughts on the concepts discussed in the story and hope that you can take something useful from it.
So as part of our nightly routine, my youngest daughter, Sydney, and I have daddy/princess read time.
The other night, she and I listened to the audio version of The Little Prince while we read along with a copy of the book.
Overall, a good read on its own and a potentially a great experience if shared with your children...as most things in life are.
[Original review, Jul 24 2018]This month, three plotlines in my life collided. I know Swedish and Norwegian well, and I'd thought vaguely from time to time that I'd like to learn Icelandic too; I've always been a great admirer of Tolkien, and I knew he had been interested in Icelandic; and I have a couple of Icelandic friends. But none of this had ever come to anything. Last week, however, Jupiter aligned with Mars and I entered the Age of Aquarius. I'd just finished reading  Tolkien: Maker of M
But I know Le petit prince, and I started trying to guess what word was what, just reading without looking anything up.It was amazing to see how well this worked.
When I look at words occurring two or three times, I start to feel uncertain, but I still think I know the majority of them.
The 1600 words which only occur once are of course the hardest; but even here I feel I can guess a lot, perhaps a third to a half of them.Copying out the text has sharpened my understanding of the grammar a good deal, and now I recognise quite a few endings.
Beautiful reading!
WHEN A ROSE IS NOT A ROSE  It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye.
I plan to read The Little Prince since many time ago, and I was aware that it was a quick reading, but still I hadn’t do it yet, until now.I went to the cinema theaters and I watched the new animated film about it, and while I hadn’t read the book, I watched the film and I loved it.
I was aware that it wasn’t an exact adaptation per se, and then I knew th
Also, a hidden wonder about this book is that you not only need to realice what things in your own life to interchange with the ones in the Little Prince’s journey, but moreover, you need to “see” with your heart and being able to find the “well” in every “desert”.Sometimes isn’t easy, and I guess that there will be moments when those deserts are truly dry, maybe there was a well some time ago, but it’s long gone.
“It is only with the heart that one can see rightly; what is essential is invisible to the eye.”I remember, when I was little, I had this round CD case and it contained an audiobook.
Now as a child I loved audiobooks, or someone reading stories to me.
Anyway, the audiobook was titled The Little Prince, and I listened to it quite often.
So I decided that it was time for a reread.
Maybe my mom gave it away.)Rereading this brought up nostalgia and melancholia.
This is a very cute, very sad book, and I don't like the ending very much.
یاد آن روزها که بلندترین ساختمان شهر، سیلوی گندم بود بخیر، آن روز ها، عصر که میشد میرفتم در حیاط خانه و جایی پشت بوته گل رز پنهان میشدم، آن وقت به انتظار گربه های ی بخت برگشته مینشتم.
سر و کله یکی شان که پیدا میشد، با لنگه کفش کهنه به سوی ش نشانه میرفتم و سپس پرتابی بی نهایت جانانه.
574. The Little Prince, Antoine de Saint-ExupéryThe Little Prince (French: Le Petit Prince), first published in April 1943, is a novella, the most famous work of French aristocrat, writer, poet, and pioneering aviator Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه می سال 1982؛ بار دوم سال 1994 میلادی؛ سومین بار ماه فوریه سال 2001 میلادی و پهارمین بار ماه نوامبر سال 2006 میلادیشهریار کوچولو - کتاب قرن بیستم - آنتوان دو سنت اگزوپری (امیرکبیر و نگاه)، برگردان احمد شاملو، ادبیاتاز بچه ها عذر میخوا
The Little Prince, Antoine de Saint-ExupéryThe Little Prince (French: Le Petit Prince), first published in April 1943, is a novella, the most famous work of French aristocrat, writer, poet, and pioneering aviator Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه می سال 1982؛ بار دوم سال 1994 میلادی؛ سومین بار ماه فوریه سال 2001 میلادی و پهارمین بار ماه نوامبر سال 2006 میلادیشهریار کوچولو - کتاب قرن بیستم - آنتوان دو سنت اگزوپری (امیرکبیر و نگاه)، برگردان احمد شاملو، ادبیاتاز بچه ­ها عذر می­خواهم که این کتاب را به یکی از بزرگترها هدیه کرده ­ام.
Un libro que adquiere distintos significados dependiendo de la edad en que lo leas:*De niño: una historia entrañable sobre un príncipe que busca conocer el mundo.*De adolescente: una historia sobre el crecimiento y lo que denota ser adulto.
Se trata, quizá, de una advertencia.*De adulto: al contrario de lo que muchos creen, para mí es claro que El Principito no está escrito ni para niños ni para adolescentes, sino para el adulto promedio.
Así, El Principito se transforma en un recordatorio agónico que busca rescatar lo que aún no está perdido dentro de nosotros.
Un intento de hacernos recordar lo que fuimos y ayudarnos a ver lo que podemos llegar a ser.
For a kid's story, this one has rather heavy-handed intentions embedded into a sophisticated system of symbols that exists to produce a strong & emotional effect.
Externalizing feelings like only a child can.
I find the golden-tressed titular child a very peculiar emblem in the middle of the Saharan desert...
an eerie, living monolith (almost an oxymoron when one comes to think of it.) So, kids, let me ask you this one: Are we just placed on this planet so as to remain forever ALONE?
"I hunt chickens; men hunt me.All chickens are just alike, and all the men are just alike.And in consequence, I am a little bored.But if you tame me, it'll be as if the sun came to shine on my life.I shall know the sound of a step that'll be different from all the others.Other steps send me hurrying back underneath the ground.Yours will call me, like music out of my burrow.And then look: you see the grain-fields down yonder?I do not eat bread.
Written as a children's book, I find myself unable to pin down firmly as to what makes The Little Prince such a universally likeable book, be it children or grown-ups.
Is it because most grown-ups secretly love being treated like kids?
In my experience, grown ups like to be taken very seriously.
They don't like important things being pointed out to them in simple language, after all they're the know-it-all grown-ups and don't need anybody patronizing them.
I know grown-ups who believe that a good book, like a well-mixed drink, must be held between the fingers and tended to lovingly at length to let it get to your head.Is it the timeless lessons that the book cushions behind layers of delightful story-telling?
2 StarsI know this is a much loved, much published, children's classic that has been published in pretty much every language there is.
I have challenged myself to read one classic a month this year, and so far, I am failing miserably.
It's July (almost August, but I'm throwing myself a bone so I feel like less of a loser) and I have only read two.
I finished Alice in Wonderland on December 28th of 2017 (which I ALSO didn't love), after reading it over the course of almost a full month.
I'm starting to think children's classics might not be for me.
NOT a children's classic.
574. Le Petit Prince = The Little Prince, Antoine de Saint-ExupéryThe Little Prince (French: Le Petit Prince), first published in April 1943شازده کوچولو؛ مسافر کوچولو، شهریار کوچولو و عنوانهای دیگر - آنتوان دو سنت اگزوپری (امیرکبیر و ...) ادبیات، تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1982 میلادی، تاریخ خوانش این نسخه: ماه نوامبر سال 2006 میلادیبا این عنوانها چاپ شده است: شازاده بچکۆله - مهتاب حسینی در 100 ص؛ شازاده چکوله - کردی مترجم مصطفی ایلخانی زاده در 154 ص؛ با همین عنوان ترجمه آرش امجدی در 136 ص؛ با همین
اما فکری کرد و پرسید: اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: تو اهل اینجا نیستی.
نگفتی اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: آدم­ها تفنگ دارند و شکار می­کنند.
اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: چیزی است که پاک فراموش شده.
شهریار کوچولو گفت: رسم و رسوم یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: این هم از آن چیزهایی است که پاک از خاطره ها رفته.
به این ترتیب شهریار کوچولو روباه را اهلی کرد.
شهریار کوچولو گفت: تقصیر خودت است.
شهریار کوچولو برای آن که یادش بماند، تکرار کرد: نهاد و گوهر را چشم سر نمی­بیند.
روباه گفت: آدم­ها این حقیقت را فراموش کرده اند، اما تو نباید فراموشش کنی.
However, what separates this from the other two is that this is a book for all ages.There was a magazine called "Imprint" (now defunct) during my childhood, in India.
One issue contained this story, and he gave it to me for reading.
I was maybe 10-12 at that time.It left an indelible impression on my mind: I was sad for the little prince and his proud rose, and constantly worried whether the goat would eat it.
I was sad when the fox and the prince had to separate, after he had tamed it.
So precious.
كتاب لذيذ، شهي، عذب، لامسني في أعمق شغافي، في طفولتي. فتنني وعشقته، يندرُ أن أقبّل كتبي - إذ يجب التحفظ قليلا مع هذه الكائنات - ولكنني قبلتُ هذا الأمير الصغير، وردته ونجمته وبراكينه الخامدة، قبلته في قلبه.عودوا أطفالاً هنا :)
574. Le Petit Prince = The Little Prince, Antoine de Saint-ExupéryThe Little Prince (French: Le Petit Prince), first published in 1943, is a novella, the most famous work of French aristocrat, writer, poet, and pioneering aviator Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. The novella is one of the most-translated books in the world and was voted the best book of the 20th century in France. Translated into 300 languages and dialects, selling nearly two million copies annually, and with year-to-date sales of over
اما فکری کرد و پرسید: اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: تو اهل اینجا نیستی.
نگفتی اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: آدم­ها تفنگ دارند و شکار می­کنند.
اهلی کردن یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: چیزی است که پاک فراموش شده.
شهریار کوچولو گفت: رسم و رسوم یعنی چه؟ روباه گفت: این هم از آن چیزهایی است که پاک از خاطره ها رفته.
به این ترتیب شهریار کوچولو روباه را اهلی کرد.
شهریار کوچولو گفت: تقصیر خودت است.
Debo reconocer con orgullo que recién termino de leer a mis 43 años este libro maravilloso y he recorrido sus páginas con los ojos de un niño y no como parte del mundo de los grandes. La visita del Principito a los distintos planetas me recordó a la que realiza Dante en el Purgatorio, enfrentándose todos los vicios y defectos que tenemos los "adultos". Hoy dormiré pensando en esa rosa que atesoro y que es Martina, mi hija. Lo esencial es (y no es) invisible a los ojos.

Pero qué cosa tan más hermosa.Tengo un vago recuerdo de haberlo leído cuando estaba pequeña, pero ni de cerca me impactó como me ha impactado ahora.
this book was just as lovely the second time as it was the first. (and almost as great in english as in french.)not sure if i can write extensively on this book. it's just so lovely and wonderful, and it really seems like one of those books that reveals another facet with every reading.lovelovelove this one.full review: https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...
In a grimy underground locked public toilet The Little Prince wakes slowly, he’s been out cold for hours. He’s bleeding from a gash on his upper arm. He finds he is chained by leg irons to the wall. There is another person sharing his predicament. It’s a bear, also chained to the opposite wall. In the center of the floor is the corpse of what appears to be donkey in a pool of blood. Near the corpse are a gun, a tape recorder and a saw. “Grownups are very strange,” said the Little Prince to himself, sadly.
"إن هؤلاء الكبار لا يدركون شيئاً من تلقاء نفوسهم، فلا بد للصغار أن يشرحوا لهم و يطيلوا الشرح و يكررو
A little review for little prince:Once you get over the hyped mystique and granduer too often hitched to this little book, I think it's not a stretch to look at it for what it is. The more appropriate title should be: How To Train A Little Fascist. Aside from being obviously sentimental it was also a bit boring. I refuse to let my kid read it.
L’IMMAGINAZIONE AL POTEREMa i grandi non capiranno mai che questo abbia tanta importanza.Illustrazione originale di Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.
