https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106025.Murphy_s_Boy
They were working together to help a teenage boy work through some of the horrible, awful things done to him by his own stepfather, with his own mother's consent, and they were making real progress.
But these are children's minds and lives she's working with here; there's no room for screwing up, shrugging one's shoulders and starting over.I have no doubt Karen would have loved this book; she would have balked at some of the scarier moments, like when Kevin is describing some of the abuse he and his siblings endured, but she would have cried like me when the big moments of progress happened.
Recently I saw the film adaptation of this book, Trapped in Silence, and it was an amazing film so I decided to read the book to see if it was as good. I can gladly say that the book is even better. It's much more detailed and gripping, really a wonderful story of one woman who makes all the difference in the world to a forgotten kid.
„Jsme jako duchové,“ řekl.
„Jako duchové v zrcadlech.
Místo duchů bez těl jsme jako těla bez duší.
Prázdné skořápky, v nichž jsou uvězněné špatné osoby.
Zrcadloví duchové.
Půl milionu.
Půl miliardy...
Možná půlka světa jsou zrcadloví duchové.
Jenom těla, co zabírají prosto a chodí si jen tak prázdně po světě.“Zvíře je něco naprosto jiného, než čtu normálně.
Je to non-fiction ze života samotné autorky, a možná proto mi to připadalo tak živé, protože tento dech beroucí a citlivý příběh se opravdu stal.
Před paní Hayden smekám, protože musela ve své práci vytrpět vážně hodně a úplně si to nedokážu představit.
all hayden books get 4 stars from me bc they changed my life when i was in high school and made me want to be a psychologist to help kids like she did.
She is not meant to be a young adult writer..
I think her books are meant for adults, so don't think it's a kiddy book just cuz I read 'em in high school!
Haven't read one of her books in YEARS, BUT if you are interested in child/adolescent psychology, social work, special-ed, child abuse, teaching, mental health or if you think YOU'VE had a bad day, READ THESE BOOKS.
For some reason though, I was never able to find the complete version of "Murphy's boy." I kept hoping that the title would be listed in BRAILLE BOOK REVIEW or Talking Book Topics, but somehow it never was.
This book tells the story of her work with a teen-age boy whom she calls Kevin Richter.
One unique aspect of Hayden's books is that they go beyond merely telling the remarkable stories of the students and clients with whom she has worked.
In addition, there are side stories which allow us to see the author as a complete person with more to her life than her remarkable work.
Mielenkiintoinen aiheena. Jollain tapaa koskettava, ehkä ajatuksiakin herättävä. Mielenkiinto kirjaan nousi ja laski vuoronperään. Hitaasti loppuun pääsin kuitenkin
aku masih bisa tahan baca ceritanya Jadie, tapi yang ini aduhh..
kebetulan aku punya cerita tentang child abuse yang mungkin bisa membuka mata kita.
A ini suka banget manjat pohon, menara, dll deh pokonya sampe akhirnya dia jatuh dan fraktur.
masalahnya, setelah operasi, anak ini bener2 ga bisa diatur, dia tetep manjat sampe akhirnya jatuh dan fraktur lagi.
dan abis itu kejadian ini keulang lagi sampe semua anak residen sebel banget sama dia.
jadi mungkin selama ini kebiasaannya manjat itu salah satu bentuk pelariannya atas perlakuan yang ia terima.
ya ampun, aku ga akan bisa mandang anak nakal dengan sama lagi abis ini.
I have mixed feelings about this book but will take it at its merit.
This is a "supposed" personal true story told by a therapist.
Does anyone but me think that it is unethical that this story was told?
Maybe I am silly I disliked the way the author expressed her view in this book.
I disliked her writing style.
I disliked her second side story also.
I thought Kevin's story was so heartbreaking.
It was really crazy to see how much someone can fall between the cracks of the system.
It was so powerful and crazy.
No one writes as beautifully as her about such starkly horrible things, and I have no idea how she manages to do what she does.Murphy's Boy is the story of one of Hayden's unloveable, "unredeemable" children--in this case, a fifteen-year-old boy whose eight-year silence conceals a terrifying rage.
Her willingness to continually put her own safety and sanity at risk in order to help children believed to be beyond help never fails to astound me, or give me hope.The re-release had me thinking this was a new book, and I'm glad I picked it up, because somehow I had missed it and it has the same sparkling quality that made One Child so powerful.
3.5 starsI like her books, always have. Guess they appeal to the teacher part of me. But they always make me so sad, too that there are so many kids out there with such trauma in their lives and the system fails them.This one is about Kevin who is almost 16, elective mute, afraid of everything, hides under the tables. Once again Torey works her magic.
#260Read by Krishttp://readingwithkaren.blogspot.com/...
I wish there was a way to review Ms. Hayden's books as a group.
But they serve a golden purpose in teaching people to think outside their own minds, to understand realities other than their own, and hopefully apply a more effective filter to the human problems around them.
Murphy's Boy tells of a young man with more horrific challenges and life circumstances than ever enter the average person's mind.
Hayden's books contain no fairy tale endings, but excellent perspective on the stark reality of what individuals choose--some for the better, many for the far worse.
Don't read these books for the entertainment.
Read them to challenge yourself and grow.
So when I say that someone's horror story of child abuse really shook me, that's saying a lot.
Maybe this is because a lot of kids I see are out of bad situations and starting to heal and are, overall, safe.
It might also have been such a sucker punch to the gut to read this because of how much reporting laws have changed, and how much more stringent ethics standards are in place, and the importance of boundaries has been stressed.
Whether you think what Torey does is right or wrong, her heart is always in the right place, and she is always has the child's best interest in mind above all else.
I don't want to include a spoiler, so I'll just say as the boy Kevin grew older in the story, I felt the focus went off into a hundred different directions without coming together at the end of the novel.
The entireity of the story was situated in various institutions with Kevin and his therapist Torey one on one.
Kevin's behaviors were never explained in depth, other persons that were introduced (aka Jeff) were also presented to us as readers but then quickly disappeared with no conclusions to their story either.
Torey deve affrontare il caso di un ragazzo di sedici anni, che sembra non parlare da quando era molto piccolo e che si sente al sicuro solo sotto un tavolo e circondato da sedie. Per Torey, che ha lasciato l'insegnamento, è forse la sfida più difficile, per l'età del ragazzo e per il suo vissuto da incubo, picchiato dal patrigno e lasciato in istituto dalla madre che ha volontariamente deciso di rinunciare alla patria potestà: ha preferito un uomo al proprio figlio...
A deeply unsettling glimpse of institutions and psychology before the early 1980s. The language is jarring at times. Children are described as "retarded," "confined to a wheelchair," and "primitive". I suspect/hope that much of the author's own conduct would be considered extremely unprofessional in a contemporary setting. A very strange mixture of the author's personal life and experiences working with 'Kevin'.
I liked that this story was about a child that was older and spanned for a few years as she worked at a clinic and I suppose it's a bit more based on how well someone is rather than not just being the end of a school year. It was extremely sad and highlighted how bad the system can be sometimes. An excellent story
This was a well-written account of the author's experience with a 15 year old "elective-mute" during her clinical psychology career in the 1970's. I feel like this story illustrates how far we have come in understanding children's psychology, but it is also a reminder that we need to do more and be better advocates for children. Haunting.
Wow. What a story of survival after unimaginable trauma and abuse. And the commitment, compassion, determination of the author was inspiring. I had a hard time putting this book down until I’d finished it.
Archie
Touching story.
Truly heart wrenching!
It's been a while since I've read a book and didn't want to put it down. I loved it and it might have been because of my background in psychology.
Last of my vacation reads. Easy to read, compelling story of a great teacher working to basically save an elective mute. Recommend - 3.5 stars
Toreys relationship with Kevin enables him to heal from extreme family trauma
This is the first book I read on book share. A troubled teenager get some much needed help from a gifted teacher.
Another captivating book by Ms. Hayden. It brought tears to my eyes. It still remains in my thoughts.
Questo è un gran bel romanzo. Il fatto che me ne debba distaccare è un dettaglio. È la storia di due anni e mezzo di terapia intensiva, proseguita per tentativi, con momenti di stasi e regressione profondamente sconfortanti. Ma l’autrice non ha mai tentennato ed ha continuato a insistere. Ad esserci. Perché è una storia vera. La storia di un bambino ha cui è stata imposta un’infanzia terrificante, ma che è riuscito a trovare il coraggio di vivere.
It was good, but a little disturbing. Kevin character I didn't got into him until the middle of the book. Still, it was good.
