https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64857.D_is_for_Deadbeat
Book Review  3.5 of 5 stars (rounded up!) to D is for Deadbeat. In this installment, Kinsey's rattled when a mysterious man asks her to deliver $25K to someone who turns out to be a teenager. Shortly after the check he gave Kinsey for her own fee bounces and the guy turns up dead. Cut her losses? No... Investigate to see if you can recover your money. Sometimes Kinsey... you just don't know when to talk away, but at least you're not beat up in this book like previous ones. All in all, a solid
Book Review
In this installment, Kinsey's rattled when a mysterious man asks her to deliver $25K to someone who turns out to be a teenager.
Shortly after the check he gave Kinsey for her own fee bounces and the guy turns up dead.
you just don't know when to talk away, but at least you're not beat up in this book like previous ones.
All in all, a solid book in the series.
It's a joy to watch Kinsey work, as it is usually direct and without gimmicks.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.[polldaddy poll=9729544][polldaddy poll=9719251]
I notice that if you are reading this book Goodreads suggests that you might also enjoy Sara Paretsky's V.I.Warshawski series.
The same brusque personality, the same disregard for personal safety and for other people's feelings - I sometimes have to remind myself which series I am reading:)Which is fine with me because I enjoy both.
D is for Deadbeat is not one of Grafton's best but it is an easy read.
The murderer was not obvious and the final part of the book was a bit over the top but probably the only possible solution.
A fun story, written well and an ideal choice if you want an easy, entertaining mystery novel.
I love the way she sets up multiple potential "solutions" to her mysteries, so that you can rarely ever figure them out ahead of time.
Because what a bummer that is.The best thing about this series is Kinsey Milhone.
This woman loves her independence and thinks that being single is almost as wonderful as being rich.
In D is for Deadbeat, Kinsey tracks down the murderer of her client who's check bounced.
He was a drunk, a bigamist, and a killer, but Kinsey feels like she owes it to him and his daughter to figure out who offed him and why.
Kinsey is the author, Sue Grafton, as is common in writers of fiction.
We read every change of outfit Kinsey wears, and details of what she eats and why, all becoming quite tedious by the 20th occurrence.
About Santa Teresa, a fictional city used by Ross Macdonald and Sue Grafton in their noir.
Kinsey:Sometimes I stand in the bathtub, elbows resting on the sill, and stare at passing cars, just thinking how lucky I am.
I think of him every time I have a drink.
I think of him if I decide not to have a drink.
Most of the characters were reprehensible and the background on the case was a very sad story.
Kinsey also finds herself just waiting for a break in the case to move to the next clue.
This is probably the first book where I actually felt some sympathy for the killer.
When this book was over, I think I felt as tired and emotionally drain as Kinsey did – it just wasn’t a story with any light to dark places.
Judy Kaye continues to deliver one of the most consistent narrations of a book series that I have ever listened to.
The fourth in the Kinsey Millone series.
Kinsey is sucked into a complicated situation when her client not only writes her a hot check, he winds up dead.
The cops think it was an accident, but Kinsey thinks not.The victim was not a popular man and several families all had a good motive for wanting to see the man dead.
All of the families investigated were sad in their own way, but one story in particular was very emotional.
This was a much darker story than usual for Kinsey.
Kinsey will have to deal with this one for a long time to come.This was another compelling mystery from Sue Grafton.
4.5*Anyone who doesn't think this series is in decline should reread one of Grafton's older titles after the verbose  "D" is one of Grafton's best & features far tighter writing & a more interesting storyline. Even though this was a reread for me, I couldn't put it down!Have knocked half a * off the rating for both the unlikely original premise & resolution. I believe the book's epilogue shows that Grafton knew the solution was weak but couldn't make it more persuasive.
These are like candy to me. Short, sweet, immensely satisfying. I won't claim that Grafton reaches new literary heights but they are largely well written and Kinsey is just a great character.For what it is worth, I thought the hook here was weak. Not really sure why Kinsey would feel so beholden to a dead ex-offender to deliver a check, but whatevs.
I just think it was too rushed as a whole to be really enjoyable.The fourth novel finds Kinsey in a quandry.
Diving into this one, we find out that there are plenty of people who wanted Kinsey's client dead.
I think my disconnect was why Kinsey even cared.
At times she hides things she knows from the man's daughter and goes that she was feeling protective.
I think Grafton wanted to add some shock value where none was needed.
By since I know how that turns out, I don't much care.
All is revealed, and in the end, I didn't think justice was really served, even if Kinsey did.
I thoroughly enjoy these books. Kinsey is a great character. Recommended series.
This is my first Sue Grafton novel and if there are 26 of these books, I hope the other books are more interesting.For a very short book of 227 pages, I was bored half the time.
Maybe 50 pages of the book or 25% are filler that could be deleted.The plot is also very weak.
It's ludicrous.Then, the ex-con who is a staggering drunk, actually gives the money away.
The secret is to make the PI so interesting and to have plenty of other things going on, so you don't notice that the plot is merely a vehicle for spending time with the PI and his friends: Think Spenser and Hawk - certainly not Susan Boring Silverman.
15/1 - Finally, a mystery that doesn't end with Kinsey being seriously injured by the bad guy.
But I really, really like Kinsey and so I don't care that she has the unbelievable indestructibleness of a terminator.
I just want to keep reading the mysteries, none of which I've been able to solve before Kinsey does.
Kinsey's living arrangements and general life are the complete opposite to my life, and although I know I wouldn't enjoy the reality I do enjoy reading about her love of her tiny ex-garage apartment and her determination to go running whenever, wherever possible.
Another fast, entertaining read. Kept me engaged until the last page.
Kinsey Millhone is hired to deliver a cashier's check of $25,000, but gets stiffed on her fee.
The client tells Kinsey the money is for a teenager who had helped him out.
It sounds suspicious, but Kinsey takes the job.
After Kinsey realizes the check for her fee has bounced, she looks up the client to get her money.
Kinsey thinks his death is suspect, and looks into it.
The 4th book in the Kinsey Millhone series.
In this one, Kinsey got involved with more than she intended.
A solid mystery, but not my favorite Kinsey book.
Little did I know that that one book would open up a world of mystery for me.
However, if you’re impatient, so far as I can tell, you can read them as stand-alones with only minor references to previous books.Each novel in the Kinsey Millhone series gets better as we go along.
I know he did!” and then you turn the page and think, “Wait, maybe the maid did it…” That’s a great mystery writer for you.
And who knows, maybe the butler did do it.I highly recommend this series to anyone and everyone.
Despite enthusiastic recommendations from some highly discerning reader friends, I'd never picked up a Sue Grafton novel before this one.
In detective Kinsey Millhone, Grafton creates a character who sounds like a stereotype--hard-boiled outside, vulnerable inside--until you spend ten pages with her.
She had me at "Sometimes I picture death as a wide stone staircase, filled with a silent procession of those being led away."Grafton is a master of the atmospheric setting, and Millhone's tick of observing every detail of a character's dress and mannerisms does not get old.
I finished the novel on a subway in Japan, no mean feat.
I could write lots about it: it's curious how much detail it goes into, like a PI manual of sorts; no real character development but sexual tension; first person narrative so you can live these exciting scenes through her.
People in poor apartments are imagined as an attacking swarm, Mexican kids playing pool 'squabbled among themselves like pups'.
There's a lot can be said about this kind of language and has been said much better by others but bottom line I guess, my people, my apartments, it sets me off a little.
I enjoyed catching up with Kinsey. Easy reading and great plot.
I had remembered that the events of each book closely follows the book before. Four books, and Kinsey has spent about a year...a little less, in a wild world of petty crooks and murder. I like the pattern of muddied details and false trails...all cleared up in the final chapter.We are now in a very rainy fall, and E is set at Christmas...on we go. I had forgotten how much I love this girl.
Another reread for me. An interesting mystery. More detailed review will be on my blog
This month my plan is to read as much Mysteries as I can leading up to Halloween so of course I had to go back to one of my most favorite Mysteries series, the Kinsey Millhone series (aka the Alphabet Mysteries series).I always say this but if you aren’t reading these books, then you’re missing out on an amazing heroine and some great crime novels. When I read about Kinsey Millhone, I feel like I’m reading about a part of myself. She has that drive similar to me where when she’s got her mind d
This month my plan is to read as much Mysteries as I can leading up to Halloween so of course I had to go back to one of my most favorite Mysteries series, the Kinsey Millhone series (aka the Alphabet Mysteries series).I always say this but if you aren’t reading these books, then you’re missing out on an amazing heroine and some great crime novels.
When you see a part of yourself reflected in a character, it’s easy to fall into their stories.For this case, Kinsey is hired to deliver a check to a fifteen year old boy.
Now she has to find out who killed him in order to get paid!This is the fourth Sue Grafton book in this series but the first in the series that left me wanting more from the book.
The plot is well developed but I think Grafton could have done more to introduce some of the characters into the story.Definitely a great book to spend some time with, but make sure you have the next book (E IS FOR EVIDENCE) ready to pick up as soon as you read the last page of this one - you won't want to stop reading!
I was starting to get irritated about how the books were ending in such similar fashion, and she does things differently. Very nice.
Re-read as audiobook.
2.5 stars except that Grafton does write well. I really enjoyed A-C and I was enjoying this one - a good old-fashioned whodunnit- until I realised who the killer was. Ridiculous!
🤔😮😮 .... totally totally .... can't believe it ...
Immer wieder klasse.
Another enjoyable episode where KM meets some really interesting characters. A lot of people in these books are written with affection.
Unless the case in “E” begins immediately, I’d say Kinsey is moving on to a new year.
I’m still engrossed in the story lines and I’ll continue with “E” next.Alvin Limbardo (not his real name) hires Kinsey to deliver a $25,000 check to a 15-year-old boy.
Raised by her maiden aunt, Kinsey internalized her aunt’s precepts.
In Chapter 12 Kinsey shares her aunt’s philosophy about female independence: “Rule Number One, first and foremost, above and beyond all else, was financial independence.
Financially dependent persons (the young, the old, the indigent) were inevitably treated badly and had no recourse.
A woman should always have recourse.
Kinsey says to the witness/suspect, "It's just $8,000" to which the reply is made, "Do you have $8,000?"The best part of the book is when Kinsey narrates why she will miss her gun.
Her aunt also brought Kinsey to her first firing range.I did have a few problems with the book, but nothing substantial.
A lot of times the suspect has a different name than, for instance, the car crash victim, or Grafton will refer to the person by a last name and later by a first name.
It can get confusing on how everything is related.And there is romance for Kinsey in this one too.
