https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2820533-deadly-little-secret
Camelia feels weirdly attracted to this boy, Ben, despite rumors that are getting wilder by the minute and his obnoxious behavior towards her.
It would appear that someone is stalking her, but is it Ben or someone else entirely?I think you can tell, just by reading this short description, what kind of book Deadly Little Secret is.
When he finally came for her, I kind of felt that she deserved it, and I’m pretty sure I wasn’t supposed to feel that way.
guess who comes in to save our girl Camelia?
You got it, our creepy guy Ben that she has never met until that moment3.
The have a science lab class together, where Ben acts as if Camelia is repulsvie.4.
Everyone at school thinks Ben is creepy and Camelia shouldn't be hanging around him5.
Ben has a secret....
There is someone wanting to kill Camelia.8.
9. High school settingStill there are some differences in the books, like:1.
Seriously the 1st 100 pages feels like you are reading someone's interpretation of Twilight.
I do still feel it was a unique story, but I still felt a bit disappointed by it.
This part and the whole scene as partners at school felt a bit too Twilightish...There were quite a few similarities in the plot as well that I won't go into because several of my GR friends have already listed them, so I don't feel the need to do this again.
Not to put down any fans of this series, but it feels like this book is more for younger teens like 11-13 than young adults, and certainly, in my opinion, not entertaining enough to hold the attention of adults.
To be fair, my 2-star review comes from the viewpoint of an adult reading a novel meant for kids in their early teens.
I kept feeling that I was reading a book that *really* wants to be a made-for-tv movie.
While Bella droned on and on and on (and on!) about her feelings, Camila doesn't drone even once.
This makes it difficult for the readers hearts to go pitter-patter along with Camila when she spends time with Ben.Not a bad book, but not one of the young adult books that will also be cherrished by adults.
for TeensReadToo.comThree months ago, Camelia's life was saved by a mysterious boy.
But shortly after Ben's sudden appearance in her life, Camelia begins receiving chilling phone calls, various packages, and strange notes.
Ben insists that her life is in grave danger and tells Camelia that he can help.
Camelia is wary about his offer, especially with Ben's mysterious behavior and the new rumors buzzing around school involving him.
I loved reading about Camelia and her friends.
Ben and Camelia's relationship was very compelling, making you fall in love with them both.
This is a must-read for fans of romance, suspense, and mystery because it won't disappoint.
Ο κύνδυνος δεν πείθει (αναμενόμενος ο κακός της υπόθεσης), ο έρωτας που δημιουργείτε επίσης δεν πείθει (βασικά υπήρχε; Δεν το συγκράτησα), το τέλος απο την άλλη πόσο twilight! Κατά τα άλλα πέρασα ευχάριστα την ώρα μου.
I am so happy I read it!One gloomy day as Camelia walked, something unexpected happened, she almost got run over by a car, a mysterious guy reached out and saved her life.
Before Camelia gets to thank him for saving her life the mysterious guy disappears.
Camelia shuts her self from believing any of the rumors and believes, he's a good guy, the guy that saved her life.
Where will Camelia end up and unravel the secret?This paranormal romance thriller will have you trying to solve the mystery for hours.
It had interesting ingredients of mystery, romance, and action, to complement the thrilling plot.
This book was making me crazy, I needed to find out who it was and therefore I could not put this down.
Nobody else ever just hangs out there, but she wants to be on display, so people look at her as soon as they pull up.I said the alphabet forwards and backwards and counted up building bricks to keep myself calm.
^ I mean C'MON, after reading that don't YOU want to find out who it is.I really liked this.
And her life and this book completely keeps you guessing and hanging on to find out more.
She still tingles from where he touched her.Yet when, on the first day of school, she sees him, Ben Carter, the new boy with a bad reputation and an even darker history, he pretends he doesn't recognise her and insists he never saved her life.
The suspense here was dealt with well, with good pacing and plenty of tense, even scary moments - especially as, while I knew the stalker wasn't Ben from the beginning, there was quite a large number of boys/men to choose from and that does make you rather edgy.It's very dialogue-driven, which, when not taken advantage of, allows the characters to be under-developed: as they were here.
Ben, or all the other people telling her not to?I have never read Twilight, but from what I've heard about it, it does have that kind of quality to it.
I mean did anyone else think of the scene in the movie Ghost?
The book grabs your attention from the onset but I felt it lacked originality with certain scenes and felt I didn't get to know the characters well.
That might be because it is a series and we will get to delve deeper into the characters with the books to come.
Before she knew what was happening, a mysterious hot guy had shoved her out of the way, saving her life, before running off when she tried to thank him.She is, of course, determined to find out more about Ben, the mystery guy.
But when she confronts him in the hall and tries to thank him, he pretends he doesn't know what she's talking about.Camelia's chemistry teacher has an annoying practise of decreeing that whoever you're sitting next to on your first day will be your lab partner for the rest of the year.
And Camelia's family drama is contrived.This book would be a mild "pass" for me if it didn't rip off Twilight in an unbelievably derivative way.
So I absolutely love Laurie faria stolarz. She is an amazing writer and is my favorite author. This book I read in a total of like 4 hours. I seriously was to enthralled to put it down!!! I definitely didn't see the end coming! this is a must read! Go to thebookhangovercast.wordpress.com for the full review!
And I know that she can sense the future for a fact because right after I finished the book I searched up the second book to see what it was going to be about.
I had no idea what to expect from him but I'm pretty sure people have a better feeling of him after reading the book.
That is why I brought my fifth star down, her character was very irritating and just thought everything was a joke from one of the other guys when it was very serious and Camelia's life was in danger.
She was insensitive to Camelia's feelings and only really thought of herself, it was always her her her.
DNF %12 Este libro fue como: Primer capítulo...Ah, interesante..."¿Esta seguro que desea borrar este archivo?" Si, segurisima
Originally posted @  The YA Bookworm i have seen a lot of reviews that this one is very twilight-ish, i didn't believe it cause does the title Deadly Little Secret sound twilight in the making to you??? i don't think so.but then this is the first scene of the book the very famous car saving scene in twilight, so i was still in denial that this one is twilight in the making kind of book. but then the resemblance are piling up like: camelia and ben became LAB PARTNERS. and Ben has this "cold" touc
i have seen a lot of reviews that this one is very twilight-ish, i didn't believe it cause does the title Deadly Little Secret sound twilight in the making to you???
on what is Ben's Deadly Little secret.
*sighs* so let's cut to the chasethis is somehow resembles twilight and to be honest i didn't enjoy reading this book sure there are mysteries on the side, but i find the mystery part predictable, and i don't like the dialogues in this book, maybe may E-book copy is just messed up.
So sixteen year old Camelia feels a little like an old lady.
He gets harassed at school and no one makes friends with him except Camelia.
They've met before when Ben saved Camelia's life.
She doesn't believe Ben was responsible for a murder but suddenly she starts getting threatening notes and phone calls and all her friends believe she's next in line to become Ben's victim.
Ben does have a secret, but is it that he's a murderer or is it something else?
I didn't hate Ben though and I felt like he did have chemistry with Camelia.
All I can say is, I thought it was Spencer.
Μια μέρα, η ζωή της θα κινδυνέψει όμως τελευταία στιγμή, ένα μυστηριώδες αγόρι για το οποίο δεν γνωρίζει απολύτως τίποτα, θα την σώσει και αυτή θα είναι η αρχή μιας μεγάλης αλλαγής.
Όπως ίσως καταλάβατε, σε αυτό το πρώτο μέρος, μπορεί η Καμέλια είναι πρωταγωνίστρια όμως η προσωπικότητα του Μπεν, η ιστορία που φέρει στις πλάτες του και το μυστικό του, είναι αυτά που κλέβουν την παράσταση και μας βυθίζουν στον κόσμο της δημιουργού.Συνδυάζοντας το μεταφυσικό με το ρομάντζο, την δράση μιας περιπέτειας με την αγωνία ενός θρίλερ μυστηρίου, το "Μικρό Θανάσιμο Μυστικό" είναι ένα βιβλίο έκπληξη το οποίο, θα μπορούσε να αποτελεί κατηγορία από μόνο του.
I wasn't extremely excited that the first half of the book was so much like twilight.
I know authors are inspired by books but they should make it their own and the first half was very similar - to similar.I also didn't like when Camelia's best friends, Kimmie and Wes, were in the dialog.
Wes didn't have a male's point of view and Kimmie sounded like a ten year old.
I can't stand books like that.
*Eye roll* She was obsessed, almost to the point of stalking Ben, and he tired to stay away from her until he “felt” that she was going to be in danger.
The beginning starts in a Twilightesque scenario where she is saved from being hit by a car when the "new guy" in school pushes her out of the way.
At the same time, Camelia begins to get odd things in the mail like pictures of herself with slightly creepy and foreboding messages scribbled on them.
But what really irritated me is the fact that Camelia never told her parents or the authorities when the stalker's behavior got exceptionally creepy and this didn't seem realistic at all.Also, the book ends with a cliffhanger, and apparently this is going to be a series?
Is every teen book being written going to be a series???
Good concept, awful writing style.
First of all, the one liners are awful.
The first 50 pages were like a stupid disney sitcom and I was cringing the whole time.
The guy is like a sad, annoying version of Edward and the girl is just dumb.
Literally they're in love within two seconds and she acts as if its the biggest deal in the world when he leaves to "protect her." Ahem, Twilight, ahem.
The girl is stalked and kidnapped and then two pages later she's laughing with her friends about how strange the whole situation was.....
I didn't know if I would like to story line, and boy was I pleasantly surprised!Blurb from Goodreads:Until three months ago, everything about sixteen-year-old Camelia's life had been fairly ordinary: decent grades; an okay relationship with her parents; and a pretty cool part-time job at an art studio downtown.
I could not figure out if I should trust him or shout at Camelia to run the tother way!I completely love the friend triangle that is Camelia, Kimmie and Wes. They kept me on my toes and really were very entertaining.I have to say that I don't usually like creepy in a book, but the creepiness and mystery of this book is what kept me reading.
Finally the best friend admits something strange may be going on, but really (she insists) there's no proof these events are really connected.
the heroine for being too caught up in her own problems and failing to ask the BFF about her boring little life.What the hell?
She wants to see me lose control.’-‘Consider this your warning….For being a good girl.
Congratulations.I’m going to stop now before I bore you to death, but I feel I should end on a positive note.
The Deadly Little Series is a string of novels following the life of sixteen-year old Camelia who falls in love with the mysterious Ben, despite rumors of him being responsible for his girlfriend's death.
The 'Deadly Little' series holds just as much intrigue and drama as any other mystery or supernatural book.
The 'Deadly Little' series is very much a secret itself, hidden between the covers of the more well-known novels on the shelves in the library, waiting to show any willing reader the witty remarks, strong plot-line and that a small secret is just as intriguing as a famous one.
But, I couldn't help but feel like I had read Deadly Little Secret before.
The characters are straight out of the Blue is for Nightmares series: girl, ex-boyfriend, trendy BFF, quirky guy-friend, and mysterious/dangerous new guy.The set-up is straight out of Twilight and read-alike Evermore: girl almost gets hit by out-of-control car, gets saved by mysterious dark stranger, who then turns out to be her lab partner in science, and can't/won't touch her.Stolarz delivers danger, suspense, a touch of the supernatural, quirky characters, and snappy dialogue in a could-be-near-you high school setting, for her fans, and fans of Twilight and Evermore.
Unless someone bribes me with chocolate.
LolEdit: Sony bribed me with chocolate, so here I go again.
LolEdit: review to come.Edit: Disclaimer: Snark and gifsThe fact that the beginning of this book was literally like Twilight made me rage.The one positive thing I can say is that the stalking was not romanticized.If someone is stalking you: Please.
I think all this bad book reading is breaking my brain.
I need to read some really good books to refresh myself.
Or get really drunk and review bad books.
I need to start a bad YA book drinking game.
Until three months ago, Camelia’s life has been pretty ordinary: two best friends, an okay relationship with her parents, a cool job at the pottery store downtown.
He becomes the scapegoat to everyone but Camelia, even when her friends tell her to be careful.
Ben tells her she’s in danger, but won’t explain how he knows.
Obviously he’s hiding something…but he’s not the only one with a secret.I LOVED this book.
I could not, for the life of me, figure out who the stalker was.
I loved the characters as well.

Never ever read this if you're alone or you're easily creeped out.
This book hold the record for scarying me out of my wits while reading it.
I was reading it at my dorm alone and I can tell you that, that is very conducive for "hyper-brain" activity.
The only time that I could relax was when my dormmates were there.
It's not a ghost story.
It's more like Pretty Little Liars but creepier.
For me it's new.
It's not about vampires, fairies, or sorcerers.
The only reason I gave it a 4-star is because it really scared me.
(Yeah.
This was my first time reading a Laurie Stolarz novel and I’m excited about the 2nd book titled Deadly Little Lies which is due out November 2009. It's full of suspense and it kept me guessing throughout the book. This was a real page turner and I ended up reading this book in one sitting. I love Laurie's writing style and I can't wait to read more of her books. She has a series called Blue is for Nightmares that I can’t wait to start reading.
