https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141209.The_Wisdom_of_No_Escape
Oh lordie. Pema Chodron makes me understand how people go insane and become fundamentalists. She is SO SMART and EVERYONE should just walk around thinking about her ALL THE TIME.
"Once you know that the purpose of your life is simply to walk forward and continually to use your life to wake you up rather than put you to sleep, then there's that sense of wholeheartedness about inconvenience, wholeheartedness about convenience. .... Comfort orientation murders the spirit--that was the general message. Opting for coziness, having that as your prime reason for existing, becomes a continual obstacle to taking a leap and doing something new, doing something unusual, like going as a stranger into a strange land." (94)
Pema Chodron takes Tich Naht Hahn's Zen Buddhist wisdom and makes it readable. No totally obscure allegories or fragments of wisdom to decode for meaning. She is straight from the heart, speaks of her experience, and translates the traditional Buddhist teachings into an every day accessible language and practice. I reference Tich Naht Hahn, but she is actually from a different school of Buddhism under Tringpah Ringpoche.
It may be as close as I come to meditation practice at a monastery...but this description in the preface made me feel throughout the book as if I were almost there (easy to visualize because it sounds like my home in the Pacific Northwest that's forever a part of me): "The abbey is located on Cape Breton Island, Nova Scotia at the end of along dirt road, on cliffs high above the Gulf of Saint Lawrence, where the wildness and playfulness of the weather, the animals, and the landscape permeate the atmosphere.
I honestly believe that reading this book may have saved my life. I found it in the midst of the greatest crisis in my life, and I think it's what helped me to get through it.
As a teacher, Pema Chödrön is something of a cross between Thich Nhat Hanh and Charlotte Joko Beck.
For me (and I'm sure I'm not alone in this), there has always been a tendency to think that if I could live the stress-free life of a monk, my spiritual practice would be so much richer.
As she says, "the ego can use anything to re-create itself, whether it's occurrence or spaciousness." Instead, one needs to be able to fully live with the experience of life with all it's challenges, and not be drowned in it.
I picked Pema Chodron's book after I saw it laying on a friend's coffee table, intrigued but not completely convinced.
I expected a self-helpy and precious book that I would drop after reading the first few pages.
I was surprised, however, when Chodron's clear, intellectual prose brought me to a wholly unexpected place.
She encourages us to be "warriors" on our paths to becoming more awake and alive, to engage with our fears--of success, of failure, of intimacy--without running away, with loving-kindess to ourselves.
As someone whose harshest critic is usually myself, I found comfort in Chodron's discriptions of loving kindness.
Recommended for anyone craving intellectual self-reflection.
I would not call myself a particularly "spiritual" person, but someone who I respect deeply for his ability to treat all things with an even temper gave me this book. While I can't say that I practice this all the time (ha ha ha), I respect the idea that 1) it's important to accept yourself, including all of your glorious faults, 2) all things can teach you something, and 3) we should all try to be a little gentler with ourselves and with others.
I read this book right after I crushed my hand and was experiencing nearly constant panic.
It reached me through that buzz when nothing else could.
I gave it to my mom to look at when she visited and she borrowed it for like 3 years.
I just got it back.
there was so much joy and fearlessness in the idea that I held onto the image for years even though I've never seen such a sight personally.I would say if the words "spiritual path" totally freak you out--you could still read this.
My second time reading this. First time was in Victoria, borrowed directly from the Shambhala Centre. It blew my mind.
A series of short talks given during a meditation retreat, which means sometimes they were a little technical, but as always Chodron's writing is lucid and illuminating. Very useful for trying to be more mindful in everyday life as well.
~2.5h @ 1.75x. Contents:(view spoiler)[Chödrön P (1991) (04:37) Wisdom of No Escape, The - And the Path of Loving KindnessPreface01. Loving-Kindness02. Satisfaction03. Finding Our Own True Nature04. Precision, Gentleness, and Letting Go– Precision– Gentleness– Letting Go05. The Wisdom of No Escape06. Joy07. Taking a Bigger Perspective08. No Such Thing as a True Story09. Weather and the Four Noble Truths10. Not Too Tight, Not Too Loose11. Renunciation12. Sending and Taking13. Taking Refuge14. Not Preferring Samsara or Nirvana15. The Dharma That Is Taught and the Dharma That Is Experienced16. Sticking to One Boat17. Inconvenience18. The Four RemindersBibliographyResourcesNotes (hide spoiler)]
With her typical warmth, Pema again teaches me how to live. How to make friends with who we are. With who others are. This book is something that I would love to dip into every now and then -because the learnings from these are something that I need to refresh myself with all the time.
Lots of repeated "love yourself" with a good couple stories about the process of doing so.
The first part of this book resonated with me more than the second part.
Chapter 3 "Finding Our Own True Nature" begins with a metaphor of horses and how the worst horse turns out to be the best practitioner, not the best horse, the horse everyone wants to be when they first hear the story.
There is also wonderful story at the beginning of the chapter titled "Joy" about strawberries.
I was reading it during the same week our local strawberries were right at their peak.
Enjoy the moment.
very approachable teachings.
perfect timing for the practice of tonglen and for the definition of "bardo"--"you've left the shore, but you haven't arrived anywhere yet.
You don't know where you're going, and you've been out there at sea long enough that you only have a vague memory of where you came from.
you've left home, you've become homeless...that's called the bardo, in-between." "not quite here, not quite there, just hanging out in this sort of uneasy space and having to sit with it hour after hour....label it 'thinking'" (and let it go.) good stuff here for practice in easily understood lessons.
I listened to this book on disc and really enjoyed it. I actually listened to each cd twice in a row, (I kept it in my car)before going on to the next disc. I would recommend listening as opposed to reading it, as it felt like a good friend talking to me, and offering great advice. I have been able to use a little of what I learned about experiencing our unpleasant feelings without wallowing in them, or trying to run away from them.
Just a simple series of short talks by Pema Chodron, I think most if not all of them are transcribed from events she spoke at, at a little over 100 pages, this book cut right through me. The main gist is to accept your life, embrace everything about it with gentleness and for God's sake be a friend to yourself instead of frustrated all of the time. I really needed to hear what she had to say. I highly recommend anyone take a few hours and check it out.
This book has absolutely transformed me. It's told with such heart and care and utter love and allows you to hear things about yourself that you have been afraid of without even knowing it. It was the first book I read for a yoga teacher training, and cannot wait to dive into more. So highly recommended. I know I will visit this one over and over through the years, and push it on many an unsuspecting friend in need of insight.
I don't agree with all of it, but there's lots of good stuff here on cultivating presence of mind and openness to oneself and the world...basically advice on how to be at home with yourself and roll with the punches life brings. Something I really needed to read about now.
As always, Pema's books give you the reality testing and support you need when struggling thru a tough time in your life…Written with grace and humility and humor, she scores yet again with another winner..
Very helpful book about how to be more at peace with your world. I typically get turned off by many such books as the author feels patronizing but Pema Chodron speaks with such humbleness that any wisdom she bestows feels warranted.
Good, but it felt like I was reading a programming book slightly beyond my skill level. Which is also good.
so thankful for Pema's wisdom
Read it for a University undergrad course, and it brought Buddhism from the strictly pedagogical to the real world and personal practice. Most excellent.
“Holding on to beliefs limits our experience of life … the stubborn attitude of having to have things a particular way, grasping on to our beliefs and thoughts all cause problems,” says Pema Chodron.
She adds that our clinging to our beliefs “make us blind and deaf instead of alive and awake.” Chapter 8’s essay on this kind of wisdom is worth the price of the book right there.
The idea here is that our own personal interpretation of reality is short-sighted and cheats us out of true happiness and peace.These 18 essays are about becoming whole in a fractured world.
I borrowed this book of brief talks (given during a month-long Buddhist meditation retreat) from the library after seeing it recommended on brainpickings.org, and although it was very short, I enjoyed reading it slowly, rationing myself to one talk daily to give myself time to reflect on each section.
She quotes her teacher, Chögyam Trungpa, Rinpoche, as saying that the goal of meditation practice is:
The only way to do this is to open, be curious, and develop some sense of sympathy for everything that comes along, to get to know its nature and let it teach you what it will."
I really like listening to an audiobook as a delivery method for my much needed constant-stream of Buddhism/mindfulness.Even moreso with an audiobook, I'm made aware of how little I can directly recall from these books.
In the present, when I'm reading/listening, it's just what I need to hear so it's absolutely serving it's purpose.
Some of this got into more in-depth elements of a Buddhist practice that I can't identify with, but I still found it interesting to hear.
That being said, I wouldn't recommend this to someone who hasn't been reading a lot of Buddhist/mindfulness stuff because there's so much easier to digest texts out there.
For the few weeks, I read a chapter from this book before work while I drank my coffee.
I'd jot my favorite parts into my journal.
And then I'd try to keep that chapter's insight with me for the whole day, coming back to it, thinking about it, puzzling over it.
Pema challenges you.
What she pushes you to realize and weave into your life could change everything about how you live, for the better.
Much of this book makes reference to sitting meditation and its benefits.
She guides us, very thoughtfully and gently, through how one can carry forward through meditation, how one can deal with the demons within us and the dragons outside us, and reminds us how precious life is-- how precious to be born human-- how impermanent life is-- the inevitability of the law of cause and effect -- and the futility in seeking pleasure and avoiding pain.
She does not cast a net of highfalutin language from a castle high above, but rather speaks to us standing on the same ground, of things that come up in our everyday lives, in a very real way.
