https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139069.Endurance
Behold...the gentleman whose exploits crushed the last vestiges of manhood from my fragile psyche*: * Psst....don’t mention this to my wife as she thinks she took care of this years ago. Stranded for over a year in the most inhospitable climate on the face of the Earth, literally one tiny step away from complete disaster due to starvation, extreme weather or the ice flows on which they lived deciding to crack and deposit into the freezing depths below.  Holy persevering manliness Batman, I was w
Add to that the diet that these men had to endure and the increased strain it placed on the bowels and my privileged mind was aching with imagined pain.
And while I’m not showing photos of ice-wiping or grit boils here is a shot that gives you some idea of the winds these men were facing (up to 100+ mph):
The only diet these men had for over a year consisted of penguins, one sea leopard and, eventually, their own dogs.
oh my god i feel like i haven't written a review in ages.goodreads.com, how you holding up without my pearls of wisdom??i was going to write a DBR of this last night, because that's what shackleton would do, but then i ended up eating candy and doodling instead, and that is why i live a life of mediocrity and insignificance and i am not like shackleton, who ran into some trouble on a boat ride and managed to triumph over impossible odds.
Then Shackleton sets off again in one of the lifeboats, crossing the incredibly dangerous Drake Passage in nothing more than a 22-foot open boat, hoping to reach South Georgia to come back with a relief ship for the men left behind on Elephant Island.The whole epic voyage takes over a year, and every single day, they were one wave, misstep, or blizzard away from being wiped out in an instant.
When Shackleton finally stumbles into a whaling camp on South Georgia Island and announces himself, you will have a hard time not feeling a lump in your throat.As affecting as the unbelievable odds these men beat is the unbelievable hardships they endured.
A great and enduring book isn't comprehensive; it is highly, even ruthlessly, selective, zeroing in on the most evocative and illustrative moments while dispensing with the clutter that might prevent the high points from resonating to maximum effect."]But back to the adventure!
I also recommend looking through a print copy of the book to see the photographs from the expedition, including some jaw-dropping photos of the ship stuck in ice.I highly recommend this book to fans of history or true adventure.Favorite Quotes"Few men have borne the responsibility Shackleton did at that moment.
From the various journal entries and comments included it seems sadly likely that they were not Christians and an attempt to re-write the reality although well-intended seems to me to be a bit odd.
I don't understand the purpose of this, if it is for those who are already saved then it is not evangelistic so why form an ill-fitting analogy to try and link this story to the Christian faith?Dr Dobson should probably instead have concluded this great story of adventure by commenting on the tragedy of survival against the odds but without true eternal hope, instead of trying to turn this into a Christian book/turn these into Christian men when they don't seem to have been.I recommend this book for those who enjoy true adventure stories.
*2.5 stars*Other than the bazillion amounts of bonus points that I got from my history-loving father for reading this one, I found Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage to be a little underwhelming.
Honestly, it's a fascinating story and a true testament to the will of man, but it is also extremely repetitive.
Though the narrator was very good, I had trouble keeping my attention on the story as the guys killed another seal and were cold...
for hours and hours of listening time on end.
I ended up skimming parts of the story because it go to be too much, but I maintain that the story is a remarkable one.
10/5 ⭐'s: An exciting, epic battle of survival; Stoicism to the nth degree. Truly incredible. 🏆“The ship had been named the Polaris. After the sale, Shackleton rechristened her Endurance, in keeping with the motto of his family, Fortitudine vincimus—"By endurance we conquer."Easily one of my all-time favorite books—ever—it's not hard to see why astronaut Scott Kelly brought it with him to the ISS not once, but twice. Although I hazily remembered Shackleton's voyage from history class, it wasn't
Stuck in "the icy wasteland of the Antarctic's treacherous Weddell Sea, just about midway between the South Pole and the nearest known outpost of humanity, some 1,200 miles away," the ship Endurance is abandoned a little more than a year after setting out from London in 1914.
All in all, the group of 28 men (all of whom survive) will have no contact with the outside world for almost two years, and not see land for 497 days.
Too weak to go on, a majority of the men remained there while Shackleton and five others set off in the James Caird for South Georgia.
That was the ship which left England in1914 with a complete company of twenty eight men bound for Antarctica and the South pole This is the story of Earnest Shackleton and his men and how the best the ice, traveling over one thousand miles and six weeks before becoming trapped just one day sail from their goal.
He gave the orderEvery left the ship but him.
This book is so well written and full of facts, it can be read in a day.
A well written book that reads like a novel, is true, keeps you on the edge of your seat, WITH PICTURES!!!
It is the intensity of the story: the crushing and sinking of the wooden ship “Endurance” between ice floes, and the challenges the men faced as they they will try to survive having lost gear and food stores with the sinking ship.
I have to say, this is not only a true story that, like a good novel, kept me listening to the excellent narration by Simon Prebble, but a learning experience about the inhospitable environment of Antarctica, of which I had no idea.I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys adventure that takes them to places they have never been, and meeting the men who are part of the journey.
‘Endurance’ is Alfred Lansing’s very thorough, workmanlike but effective and affecting – at times moving account of Shackleton’s ‘Incredible Voyage to the Antarctic’.For anyone who is not familiar this story – quite simply, this must be the greatest true story of survival against all the odds and is simply unparalleled in our times.The book, as the expedition, is a sobering, frightening story of unrelenting suffering, challenges on a super-human scale, seemingly unrelenting and insurmountable obstacles, overwhelming odds against survival; but ultimately it’s very much truly inspirational story of hope, of never giving up.
On December 14, 1911, the Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen led the first successful expedition to arrive at the South Pole, five weeks ahead of a British party led by Robert Falcon Scott.
Robert Edwin Peary, an American explorer, is credited with having been the first to reach the geographic North Pole.
There has been some debate as to whether Frederick Cook, also an American, got there a year earlier.The audiobook narration by Simon Prebble is excellent.When the expedition began there were twenty-nine men aboard the Endurance; there was one stowaway!
(hide spoiler)]This book lets you live the experiences of these men and shows how this amazing feat was accomplished.
I have a shelf for books concerning “bad-trip” expeditions.
I am in awe and in tears.The ill-fated Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition aboard the Endurance has got to be one of the most phenomenal survival stories that will last through the ages.
The conditions that beset the crew of the Endurance were brutal and harrowing beyond my imagination.
On the book itself, the narrative was written by piecing together all the events experienced by the crew of the Endurance, accomplished via combing through every diary kept during the expedition and extensive interviews with almost all the surviving crew members.
He also injected a bit of character to the different crew members through nuanced voices.
Faced with a "do or die" situation, Shackleton makes the call to lead the men in search of dry land.For the life of me, I still cannot understand how they survived.
It made me think about my day to day problems and how little they matter when you contrast it to being stranded at sea and living on ice flows for the better part of two years.As good as this book was, I did feel it dragged at parts.
I wanted to learn a little about this expedition after seeing a play in which Ernest Shackleton was a character.
(It was actually a strange little musical, and not particularly good, but it managed to pique my interest.)Shackleton was a flamboyant, arrogant adventurer, who was interested in fame, glory and cash.
Even when facing his probable death, one of his chief concerns was the commercial exploitation of the story of the Endurance.
This didn't go well and finally, after many hardships, it was up to Shackleton to attempt the rescue of 22 of his men stranded on a barren island locked in by ice.
Necessarily, there was a great deal of repetitiveness to the story.
I finished the last paragraph with tears running down my face and shaking my head in disbelief.If this were a work of fiction, you'd barely believe it, but you'd credit Alfred Lansing for his story-telling and imagination.
It's not fiction, and you can't help but find yourself in a perpetual state of awe over these men and their optimism, faith, humor, determination, and endurance.
I felt quite unworthy on every page.Shackleton and his men, who quickly become "as helpless and isolated from the outside world as if they were on another planet," show you, just as quickly, the best that humans can be.
And, Alfred Lansing brings them all back to life with his concise and inspired writing.
Crónica pormenorizada de la expedición de Schakelton y sus hombres en el Antártico a bordo del Endurance en 1914.
Relata las desventuras y penurias de los 28 hombres que conformaron esta expedición, de los cuales sorprendentemente sobrevivieron todos (No se puede decir lo mismo de los perros…) Una lucha contra los elementos dura y apasionante en un infierno helado.
Comparo el libro con un documental del National Geographic, al que solo le faltan las imágenes con las voces en off de los protagonistas.Grandísimo ensayo de aventuras que se lee muy bien y que te encantará si te interesa mínimamente el tema.
The unbelievable and tragical story of the Ernest Shackleton's expedition to Antarctica and their struggle to survive for an interminable period of time.The book describes the Imperial Trans-Antarctic Expedition (1914–17) his third expedition, also known as the Endurance Expedition.Endurance became beset in the ice of the Weddell Sea before reaching Vahsel Bay held in the pack ice throughout the Antarctic winter of 1915.
One of the best novels based on a true story that talks about "Endurance" in harsh situations. I have never enjoyed an audiobook like this. Thrilling and exciting!! I recommend this audiobook too because the narrator work was superb. There are moments in the book that it makes you feel anguish, however, that anguish is totally related to the situation of the journeymen. It is now one of my favorites.
WOW! Riveting! Intense! Kind of nail biting at times wondering if the end was right at the point I was reading, but no! What perseverance these men had clear til the end, all of them! Epilogue teared me up because of the true JOY I felt for this account to the Arctic recorded through journals that survived along with all the crew. An AWESOME story of brave explorers in 1916 to the Arctic.
I rarely re-read books, but this was such a gripping, true-life adventure, and well told, that I have read it three times in the last fifteen years.
What adds to the appeal of the book is the wonderful color throughout - details of how the men made life bearable during this unbearably stressful and gruelling experience - playing football on the ice, putting on Christmas Eve talent shows, passing the time by making a list of the foods they'd most like to eat when they are stranded on a desolate rock with nothing to eat but seal blubber.
Part ripping yarn, part social psychology experiment, part metaphor for graduate school -- this is the most IN-CREDIBLE book that I've ever read.It is insaaaaaannnneeeeee!!!!
But even though the whole time you are reading it, you are thinking to yourself -- #$(*&@$%(*waaahhh!!!
You'd almost think you were reading Updike, except the people in the story are real, and they are really trying to sail 1,000 miles in open sea in a 20 foot open-topped boat, and deciding whether or not it's worth it to slide down a fog-shrouded mountaintop to be smashed against rocks or fly off the edge of a cliff.
That was a painfully slow and boring audio. I guess I shouldn’t have read Who was Ernest Shackleton? first because shorter more interesting take.
This review does contain spoilers if you are unaware of Shackelton's expedition and the outcome of his men.As far as true survival stories go, or the utmost extreme conditions that man could possibly endure, and yet survive; this has got to be it.
I have read several stories of true survival, but this one takes the cake.This is the true story of Polar explorer Earnest Shackleton and his 27 men who set sail on "The Endurance" for Antarctica with the intent to cross on foot the last uncharted continent.
The journey for land is another story of survival in itself and yet these men will be forced to endure more hardships until they can reach civilization.
Very few people are blessed with a leader that understands the people around him so completely, that knows when the odds need to be played, and isn’t afraid to be cautious when fear and impatience push logical men towards death.
The feat of navigation that the XO pulled off was so meticulously miraculous that it’s like probably hadn’t been seen since Captain Bligh of Bounty fame.
We had reached the naked soul of man.” ** The only thing that I wish this book had contained was a critical analysis of what happened after the journey.
I'm sorry.
I know this is an incredible survival story, but I have to call bullshit.
This is being advertised as a story of "leadership" and "heroism" when it's more like the opposite.
I used to be OK with letting such stuff go as a "conversation starter" but I now think such fuzziness is too dangerous.
Shackleton plans the expedition for the sake of a publicity stunt that he hopes will make him rich.
We should not be teaching young people that leadership is selfishness, hubris, poor planning, bad decision-making, etc.
Saving your own skin in a difficult situation could be admirable resourcefulness, but it's not the best illustration of heroism.
Along with being amazed by the technical details of how the men overcame each obstacle, I also loved the added personal details such as the diary entries among the men for the same day, seeing what was going through each mind after having the same experience.Finally, I was amazed at the thoughts and planning that Shackleton took to keep morale up within the group.
While reading this novel, I never ceased to feel amazed at the courage of the group of men who undertook a voyage into most unfriendly regions on our planet more than 100 years ago, and who dared to dare. I feel thankful to those who travelled to the place where I'd never venture. Film based on this novel with Kenneth Branagh is worth watching, the novel is much more terryfing, though.
Господи, как классно. Можно мне туда?
If you don't want to be spoiled, stop here and read the book.
What author of fiction would have the audacity to write that?Actually, I should qualify the above to say that no human dies.
What author of fiction would have the audacity to write that?As is often the case with survival stories, there's lots of discussion of food.
Photo Credit Frank Hurley - http://www.coolantarctica.com/images/hudson.jpg, Public Domain, https://commons.wikimedia.org/w/index...
The author interviewed many of the crew members and had firsthand accounts.
So now that I have spoiled everything, why should you read this book?
They were set to do what no one had ever done before: cross the Antarctic continent and, by doing so, become famous and rich.This was in 1914, just when world war one was starting, so before there were helicopters, satellite phones and those other modern gadgets which now make adventures like this less hazardous.Before reaching their destination, some months after leaving port, their ship Endurance got encircled like a captive by a floating posse of giant ice boulders.
Well, since I mentioned the word "survival" earlier on you surely already know how the adventure ended.
