https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50684.The_Black_Unicorn
Her 'Power', one of the most influential and well-known poems from her entire oeuvre, simmers with a righteous rage, intense enough to blow a hole through the edifice of 'white supremacist patriarchy' aside from being a tribute to the memory of young Clifford Glover, a 10-year-old African American boy shot dead by a white cop on duty in South Jamaica, Queens, New York in '73, who was later acquitted by a white-majority jury with a single black female judge.
(hide spoiler)]“If I died tonight If I could die if I died if this fierce coitioninterminable fought without clemencymerciless embracekiss without trucereached its peak and loosened If right now if now my eyes rolled back in my head and I died”There is the void of absence after sexual intercourse that soaks the interrupted verses, the lacking uniformity, the vertical rhythm and the syntactical and conceptual ambiguity in the poetry of both writers that make of their works a source of inventive power, an exercise of personal introspection, a direct glance to inner chaos and disorientation after melted bodies return to the loneliness of individuality.“For those of us who live at the shorelinestanding upon the constant edges of decisioncrucial and alone”Recites Lorde in her “Litany for survival”, transforming the despotic silence into mutinous language while laying the foundations for real action.
It’s always hard to review a collection of poems, but this is something I want to do for the words of Lorde because it was an absolutely amazing read.
The fact that this collection only took two days means I wanted to do nothing but immerse myself further in the words Lorde wrote.I originally read this as a recommendation from my sister.
You come to learn that Lorde was someone who was immersed in current news and an array of her poems reflect events and situations which happened in her time.Most of all, I loved the themes she chose to cover.
For me, her poems frankly pulsate with psychic power, love, feminine majesty, pain and cruel facts no one wants to know but must.
I happened to be reading this collection during the weeks when we learned that there would be no indictments for the police officers who killed Michael Brown in Ferguson, MO, and Eric Garner in New York City.
For those of us who live at the shorelinestanding upon the constant edges of decisioncrucial and alo
The poems in this book are absolutely beautiful. I recommend reading them at the same time that you read "Zami, a New Spelling of my Name." Audre Lorde has an amazing story to tell. Her poems have stayed with me for years.
Loved, Loved, Loved these poems.
It's rare that I read a book of poetry, but I read "For colored girls..." recently and I think they really compliment each other.
I love its afrocentricity, and the almost mystical language she uses in many poems, especially at the beginning.
So much revolves around the planets, the sun, the moon, Orisha, and magic and it still feels very real and down to earth.
It's also SO relevant even today despite being written almost 40 years ago.
There is a poem about a black child being killed by police that could easily be about Tamir Rice.
If you are going through lot of despairing moments and don’t have anyone to talk to, I recommend to read not only Audra’s poems but also her life story. She is just a blessing.
African folklore collides with the modern world in this provocative collection of poetry.
Lorde explores darkness here, the beauty of black and the deep abyss of sorrow.
A common style in these poems is to have one thought collide with the next, a line of text in the middle rubbing against both of the lines above and below it, so that it becomes torn between two different meanings.Many of these poems are laced with anger and many lovingly paying homage to people either real and mythical.
It's a beautiful and brutal collection that lingers, leaving one with a sense of uncertainty to the places they've just been.
audre lorde is my lesbian mum and i love her poetry and choice of words and everything.there are funny poems, honest ones, earnest ones, ones about lesbian sex, ones about death, she covers almost every topic possible and does it in a fantastic way. her poetry really touches me.
realer than ever - I'm so glad I read this
This was such a good read. I really like Audre Lorde's poems, they are about so many different things from lesbians over race to death and everything in between. They are so interesting and beautifully written.I think these are the kinds of poems that I need to read more than once to actually *get* them if that makes sense but I loved it anyway. Audre is brilliant in general so I knew this would be good tbh.
This is the first collection by Audre Lorde I've read and it is brilliant. She's a true poet and I loved her word choices and repetition. The themes and messages of this collection were heart-wrenching and still relevant today.
If I were a drumyou would beat melistening for the echoof your own touch This is a really powerful collection with some truly moving pieces. In particular, I loved Coping, Sahara, and Eulogy for Alvin Frost. Even though this was written 40 years ago it still feels very contemporary. And sadly, some of the topics (namely police brutality and black people being murdered without respite) are still relevant to our society today.
Interessant lectura pel punt de vista tan diferent per allunyat del propi. Els poemes transmeten grans dosis de dolor, patiment i angoixa.Una selecció personal:- black unicorn- sahara- touring- a litany for survival- fog report- recreation- ghost- future promiseL'últim adequat per tancar la tria per la mirada vers l'esperança; sempre.
Transformative magic
again, an amazing book. the poem entitle "power" is my all time favorite.
"Eulogy for Alvin Frost," "A Litany for Survival," "Harriet," & "At First I thought you were talking about" really stood out to me but there isn't a weak poem in the collection
I'm not a poetry guy; I read about one poetry book per year.
At any rate, I've been meaning to read Audre Lorde for awhile and while I do plan to get to Sister Outsider one day, I figured reading some poetry of hers was a good gateway into her worldview.
I connected with some more than others; such is the case when I read poetry.
But perhaps most importantly, I got a sense that Audre Lorde's writings were of her genuine self.
Poets have to make themselves vulnerable and black women/femmes are already the most vulnerable members of society which give Lorde's words an added weight here.
I love Audre Lorde's essays so much and ...
like her poetry OK.
Of course this one has some stunners in it, especially the justly famous "A Litany for Survival."Also, this one, 42 years post-Bicentennial and also even given what we know about the actual French (not the French Resistance) during the war, seems a little TOO accurate:BICENTENNIAL POEM # 21,000,000I knowthe boundaries of my nation liewithin myselfbut when I see old moviesof the final liberation of Pariswith french tanks rumbling over landthat is their own againand old french men weepinghats over their heartssinging a triumphant national anthemMy eyes fill up with muddy tearsthat have no earth to fall upon.And it finished beautifully as well.
But in general, I think I'm going back to Zami: A New Spelling of My Name and Sister Outsider: Essays and Speeches for more Lorde, and to other poets for more poetry.
Before I read this collection I had read “Sister Outsider”.
Audre Lorde’s collection of poems touched me in many ways.
Most profoundly in the way she related the murder of young Clifford Glover.
After alluding to it I went to learn about the case - and she could have been writing about Tamir Rice.
Many other poems on other themes struck me as well.
I have several pages marked for re-reading.
Reading her poetry marks a time in history but also connects us to the present.
It beat reading my Twitter feed and started me off in contemplation of the world
Surprisingly she is the first queer WOC poet I've read and now I think I must read more, because there is so much in terms of themes and emotions that are highly relevant to me, not to mention to the current political climate. For instance, her poem, "Power" from 1978, is a painful reminder of the events leading to the Black Lives Matter movement. Stylistically she reminds me of both Wislawa Szymborska and T.S. Eliot. I especially enjoyed the aspects of African mythology that show up throughout her poems in this anthology. I may have to buy this book.
A surreal tour of female love, black heritage, loss, and every beautiful thing in between. A bold book that doesn't mind being political and considering its own political implications. This was my proper introduction to Lorde and I can confidently proclaim that it was a great first impression that I'll be coming back to.The long stanzas, often containing merely one run-on sentence with plenty of enjambment, caught my attention. I'm going to put this to use in my own writing.
I don't think I really have the brain power right now to do this justice, but this is another really good collection of Lorde's poems. It's much longer than previous volumes, and while it felt somewhat inconsistent to me, there are still a lot of really great poems here. I'd usually list out the ones I really connected with here, and maybe include an actual example poem, but brain fog is making this difficult. Maybe I'll come back to it at some point. For now, suffice to say, it's a good one!
I'm blown away with how much this collection of poetry connected me with my badass, powerful feminine energy. I love the allusions to folklore, the strong imagery, and the feelings each individual poem provokes. I don't pretend to understand poetry all that much, but I'm still gonna go ahead and recommend this one.
This is an extraordinary collection. Race, gender, sexuality, and nation are explored in stunning poetry that feels like it could have been written for the Black Lives Matter movement today. Lorde discusses history, family, and injustice in emotive ways, and her use of imagery and African languages creates compelling verse that makes it hard to stop reading.
before we were broken apartwe dreamed the crossed swordsof warrior queenswhile we avoided each other’s eyesand we learned to know lonelyas the earth learns to know deadAudre Lorde's voice in this poetry collection is clear and angry. Her poems magical, heartbreaking, shattering and most of all feminist.One of the best poetry collections I've read in a long time.
Agony and beauty. Carefully contained fury. Really powerful images. Disturbing, heart-wrenching, and altogether human. There is strength here, and survival. I'll be thinking about her words for a long time.
There were some gems, but overall I didn't love it.
good shit10/10 would read more of
