https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/934700.In_a_People_House
A very beginning book. This is for 2-3 year olds. A mouse and a bird explore a people’s house with simple words. It didn't really feel like Dr. Seuss. It was too young for both kids. The nephew gave it 3 stars. This is one of my least favorite of Dr. Seuss.
When I was a little kid I absolutely loved this book... I loved it so much that I actually still have my copy. I used to read it to my younger brothers all the time. For my money, this is one of the best Dr. Seuss books, even though it is not one of the better known ones.
I have great nostalgic love for this book and it is currently my two-year-old's favorite."Reedapeepoh book!"
Another well loved Dr. Seuss creation. My granddaughter read this to me. : )
This was my favorite book as a child.
This book was very enjoyable to read.
There were a couple times when something happened to the mouse and the bird .
This allowed for the story to keep going and have events instead of just listing everything throughout the entire story.
I'm going to crash!" This book rhymed all throughout allowing for the story to have great fluidity.
All of the text was written in black except for the objects that he was pointing out, these were written in pink.
This allows for the child to match which word goes with each object.
This also makes the story more interesting and enjoyable to read.
I am really reminiscing over these old books of mine. This story is about a mouse that introduces Mr Bird to the inside of a 'People House.' As an early reader goes, this one is super. It introduces items that one would find in a house, for example the ceiling and the floor. Super pictures bring the items pointed out by the mouse to light. Of course there are other things in this house, such as people (lol) - and they don't take to kindly to finding a mouse and a bird in the house and deftly sweep them outside.
I seriously have this entire book memorized. Baked beans, bureau drawers and books. Lights and lamps and hats and hooks. It was the #1 requested nap time story, along with Go Dog Go and Mr. Brown Can Moo.Oh, there's more! The climax, where we all say CRASH together.Doll and dishes, teapot, trash. Look out below, I'm going to CRASH! (Getting thrown out the door) Another thing it's time you knew, a people house has people too!
Oh my! My 4-year-old has made me read this book to him every night for the past week. Why it's so appealing all of a sudden, I may never know.
Smashing up the neighbour's house18 November 2013 Well, here is a children's book that encourages you to break into somebody's house and then run amok smashing everything! Why do I say that? Because that is what the two protagonists, a bird and a mouse, are doing. Firstly the mouse opens the window and invites the bird in. Then they run around pointing out all of the items that one can find in a house until such a time as they knock over a bunch of valuable items creating a massive mess. However
Dr Suess (aka Theo LeSieg) seems to have a very good ability to use rhyme and meter which he does excellently in this book.
I know because I attempted to do that as I was reading the book and I noticed that the beautiful rhyme, meter, and alliteration were completely destroyed.
In a People House, by Dr. Seuss, is about a mouse and bird exploring a person's house.
The whole thing is basically just a list of key words that are just listed, but are common words use by people.
Go on and read the book yourself, or with your children, to see what happens as the mouse and bird explore through what is unknown to them!Personally, this book is not my favorite Dr. Seuss book.
One thing I did find beneficial in this book though were the key words written in pink that were all of the house utensils.
This will help to build children vocabulary in language and literacy.
It helps children to identify all types of object found in a house.
Mr. Bird and Mr. Mouse went on an adventureto explore what is in people 's house.
I would use this book for story-time and also put it in reading center for the children to read.
Dr. Seuss is a very fine author.
He has published 46 children books in his lifetime.
Dr. Seuss used different pen names when he wrote books sometimes.
To name a few was Theo Lesig, Rosetta Stone, Theophrastus Seuss.
His genre is children literature.
The premise of this Dr. Seuss book is that a mouse and a bird enter a people habitat to investigate and take a look around.
"Come inside, Mr. Bird," said the mouse."I'll show you what there is in a People House..."There is the usual Seussian rhyme in this one, but the main content of the story is a list of household items.
That's what you find in people's rooms".Considerations :::This one is for entering First Graders.
But other than that it's not so interesting, and it isn't a book with alot of 'staying power'.Pam Tmom and reviewer at BooksForKids-Reviews
"Come inside, Mr. Bird," said the mouse. "I'll show you what there is in a people house." I thought the book, In a People House by Dr. Seuss writing as Theo LeSieg was so funny! An energetic mouse wants to show his new friend Mr. Bird all of the things he has found in the people house. He lists all of the items accompanied by pictures to help the reader match the words to their image. This book is great for emerging readers and it is humorous in the Dr. Seuss way and it flows with a catchy rhythm.
This book teach vocabulary words of items children can find in their houses.It desperate curiosity when listen the book of what is inside to the house. help children to create a picture of their own house.I can help children to organized their house.Learning extension:Give children a variety of pictures of items they can find at their own house.Ask to each child where the picture they choose belong in the house.For example, a picture of a spoon belong to the bathroom or in the kitchen.This will help children to figure out places and items corresponding to a specific place.
This book provides a fun alternative to the typical first words book. Helpful as they may be, the standard first word book is so very boring for the adult! This book features an adventerous mouse who invites a random bird into a people house to have a look around. With this book you not only have tons of familiar objects, you also get a simple story that has rhythm and rhyme. The text is set up so that words describing the objects pictured are in a bold face, pink and any other words are in a smaller black typeface.
"In a People House" could be a great activity to use alongside a game like, "Busy Town." One could even create their own game on large poster board paper and give the children magnifying glasses.
The children would be instructed to find the items listed or items that one would find in a 'people' house.
As a fun assessment, the children could have a sheet with numerous items on it and they would go on a "hunt" and circle things that they would find in a "people" house.
We could extend the assessments by counting the items and stating or writing how many items they found.
In A People House features two personified animal characters that go around a home naming the different items found there. It is a great vocabularly book. The words found within a book are shown gigantly on the page and is great for beginning readers. The rhyme scheme, rhythym and patterns found within the book make it a great piece and fun to read. The book also contains great usage of stressed and unstressed syllable that are sometimes found in poetry.
Very fun book for younger and middle aged children. This is a great book for children who are starting to learn what different objects in a house are, as there are many different objects labeled in this book. I really like that the words are staggered all over the page, with few words per page and I feel children would find that fun. Good rhyming words used in the book and wonderful and fun illustrations.
Sort of fun, this book is made for very small children who are learning the names of things and or learning how to read. It has a small plot of a mouse showing around a people’s house to a bird (and the reader as well). It is a so-so book, but I believe there are many others book that serve the same purpose that are better illustrated, coloured and much better than this one.
This was a doctor's office book that I would read every week when we went to get my allergy shots. It must have been early grade school.
Abby loves it.What did I learn?There are lots of things in a people house, not the least of which are people.
Not much of a plot but a good beginner reader with lots of rhyming and picture clues to help identify the words. Mikey read this through the first time looking at it without any trouble.
This is a favorite bedtime story in our house. 7 years of reading it and it still makes us chuckle. ;)
This was okay... not much of a story though.
My 4 year old says, "I love this book! I also love the pictures and love this book so much I want to read it to my family over and over and over again!"
Notes:filled with everyday vocabrhyming book
when I read this book to kids, I like to point to the pictures and have them tell me what it is instead of my reading the words. That way, they are "reading" the book themselves.
One of my favorite books by Dr. Seuss. This book is great for teaching students about the things inside of homes
A terrific book!
