https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36314.Tales_of_H_P_Lovecraft
And they nearly all have the same basic plot.But there's also an odd brilliance to them.
They're less terrifying than I expected them to be, but they are fascinating with their revelations of elder beings and unimaginably alien architecture and geometry that's *wrong*.
I think my favorite parts were the exploration of the pre-prehistorical ancient cities in At the Mountains of Madness and "The Shadow Out of Time".So, there's part of me that wants to dismiss these stories wholesale, or at least to advocate the Cthulu-worshippers as oppressed colonial Others, but I also understand exactly why Lovecraft's stories are so influential.
P. Lovecraft, it seems — call it a trick of fate, coincidence, or a bad joke by the ghastly gods of the unknown — that more than the similar quality of the stories they churned (“bizarre, brilliant, inspired, original, yet frequently hackneyed, derivative and repetitive,” if I may quote from Joyce Carol Oates’s introduction from this particular book’s edition) both their life carve out parallel patterns, just to mention a few: both were born in New England and were fatherless at an early age; both had disastrous marriages and lived a truncated life; both tried to live off by means of their writing and sold them to magazines with little financial pay off; and though branded as literary misfits of their respective times, more importantly, both established a body of work (ironically appreciated only after their death) that became the foundation and left an indelible mark for much of today’s horror fiction.
Whenever I'm in the mood for a couple of sleepless nights spent listening for hell-beasts under my bed, I just wrap myself in a few blankets and settle in with my big book o' Lovecraft.
The academic nature of his stories is what causes so many of them to bloat and become glacially slow reads, but at the same time it is essential to Lovecraft's idea of horror: an idea which does not fit into our mental world, which scares even when there is no immediate danger.
The world Lovecraft created is pretty freaking cool, and has been used as the basis for a board game and several tabletop RPGs, but it had an awkward way of getting out.There's no doubt that Lovecraft was a hugely influential horror author, possible the most influential, but I can't say that his stories are essential reading.
Anyway, I finally read his works, and I do have some mixed feelings about his writing style, but overall, I really liked this book.Tales of H.P. Lovecraft is a general collection of his better known short stories.
Lovecraft really has a sense of the visual in this story that excites the imagination.The next is "The Shunned House." This one too is very much like "Rats in the Wall." The narrator goes into the history of this strange abandoned house, where all the vegetation is dead and freaky looking, like strange purple fungus, etc.
These stories are to horror literature what hops are to beer--strongly floral, ocasionally overpowering (adjectives, dear lord, so many adjectives), sometimes adding a ridiculous, ill-tasting, or pompous flourish, but utterly essential to keeping the basic recipe interesting. I read some of these stories while I was traveling in England and quite ill, and I recommend them to those with fevers. "The Colour Out of Space" is especially satisfying--effective and creepy.
Damn, those tales were damned! After awhile, they began to resemble each other too closely, but I had been waiting to read "The Call of Cthulhu" for a long while and--the experience I must not speak of.
"The Outsider" in particular read like The Twilight Zone's episode "Eye of the Beholder" from the point of view of a demon.However, once I got to the third story "The Rats in the Wall," I had a faintly sickening feeling I wasn't going to finish the book.
But, like my reactions when I read Heart of Darkness a few years ago, I don't understand why people were not able to see past both Conrad's and Lovecraft's colonial, xenophobic beliefs.
The whole time I read this story, all I could think of was "that will teach you not to clean next time you spill something." The Call of Cthulhu - Written in 1926 and first published in Weird Tales in 1928.
This is one of my favorite stories in this collection.The Dunwich Horror - Written in 1928 and published to Weird Tales in 1929.
Out of the collection, The Rats in The Walls, The Colour Out of Space, At the Mountains of Madness, The Shadow Over Innsmout, and The Shadow Out of Time were my favorite stories.
I've read a smidgen of Lovecraft here and there over the years, but thought to myself, why not crank through more?It took a while, if only because this excellent collection of short story/novella length works didn't really lend itself to a straight read-through.In part, that was because each "tale" is self-contained, and of adequate length to make for a nice little evening read.
More significantly, I found myself with only so much tolerance for the Lovecraftian vernacular...after a while, I do find myself wishing he'd find a rackafrackin' synonym for eldritch.
There's a sameness to it all, particularly taken in large doses.Still worth the read, and even more fascinating because--while Lovecraft is technically "horror," he reads more to me like a peculiar brand of sci-fi.
How does one review the epitome of fear, mystery and suspense; the means by which every horror novelist should be judged.
Not easily that’s for sure!H.P Lovecraft is the master of the horror story.
In every short story the “horror” is revealed at the last possible instance creating mounds of anticipation.
The language is some cases is a bit academic and seems like it would be more suitable for a scientific journal but that’s the beauty of it.
It captures the bizarre worlds that Lovecraft has created and conveys a sense of past time.
Lovecraft truly is wonderful and should be read by any horror enthusiast!
I like the back stories of all the monsters way better than anything else, and I know that folks didn't have goodreads.com back in the day so they were excited when a story where three things happened dragged on for seventy pages.
I don't want to say I don't have enough time for all the words ol' HP felt like he needed to use.
Etgar Keret, who I also am not too stoked on, could have told all 325 pages in a goddam chapbook, I bet.
I will never run out of names for pets again, though.
I am naming my first cat Yog-Sothoth.
I didn't actually read this book, but rather i am in the process of reading Loecraft's short stories one at a time on this website: http://www.tmoct.co.uk/lovecraftlibra.... His writing shows it's age; it is scientifically dated and horribly racist, and the entire writing style is hokey and cliche, but nameless terrors and tentacled cosmic horrors are so darn cool to read about. You can't really call yourself a geek unless you have read The Cal of Cthulhu!
They all ROCK!-- Sean WyndhamHell yeah.-- Eddy RosenbaumDudes, rly.-- Yog-Boy
Not my cup of tea - Lovecraft never says something outright when he can hint at it for 20 pages instead, and he's never met a run-on sentence he didn't like.
Read enough to get the gist/a feel for his style. Gotta move onto something that engages me more in the moment though. The cosmic horror is very horrifying, I get it.
His greatest creation, Cthulhu, is known by those who don't even know who Lovecraft or Arkham or Miskatonic University is.
without having read any of Lovecraft's stories not included here, I'd say it's a very solid collection that should have left "At the Mountains of Madness" out.
I think this is why so many authors are drawn to writing stories within his world.
These stories go for the tropes of traditional Gothic stories, and yet, Lovecraft knows how to tweak the narrative just enough to make the genre all his own.
I remember really liking the Cthulhu myth and I’ve been attempting to find a copy of a Lovecraft collection at the library for over a year.
Sad. But, I read it anyway as I really wanted to read some Lovecraft.Stories In this Collection: “The Outsider”, “The Music of Erich Zann”, “The Rats In the Walls”, “The Shunned House”, “The Call of Cthulhu”, “The Colour Out of Space”, “The Dunwich Horror”, “At the Mountains of Madness”, “The Shadow Over Innsmouth” and “The Shadow Out of Time”.I think my favorites were The Colour Out of Space, At the Mountains of Madness and the Shadow Out of Time.Though Lovecraft’s writing isn’t exactly ‘scary’ in current times, the writing is fantastic.
Enter the world of horror novels with this book, it is a great example of the kind of texts that will send chills down your spine, but you will learn that it isn’t scary. Horror novels don’t exactly strike fear, but instead leave you excited, and fill your mind with images of horrifying things. As an example, In the short story within the book (SPOILERS) “The Colour Out of Space,” the imagery brings you into this dynamic environment. You are drawn into this world that is hard to escape from, eac
Enter the world of horror novels with this book, it is a great example of the kind of texts that will send chills down your spine, but you will learn that it isn’t scary.
You are drawn into this world that is hard to escape from, each word drags you on, like some strange curse within the book itself.
I would recommend this to anyone who loves books with a lot of details, and who don’t mind the horror.
This book goes beyond the kind of stories you would tell at a campfire long past sundown.
For this who like a dark tone this is the book for you.
The dark horror of the stories was only matched by the odd, unnatural theme presented throughout the book.
The use of a made-up language also accentuated the dark tones of the book, a great example being “Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn." A line that roughly translates to "In his house at R'lyeh dead Cthulhu waits dreaming.” The unknown language really plays into the horror of the Great Ones, the overarching creatures of the story, and gives them a terrifying intellectual capability.One thing that stood out to me was the both recognizable, yet odd creatures presented.
At an overnight (AKA sleep away) camp, the counselor in our cabin read "bed time stories" from Weird Tales.Lovecraft could be found in the card catalogue of the Providence Public Library, but the books were not circulated...
at least to youngsters.Perhaps it was the horror aspect to his stories, but, remember, this was also a time when Hardy Boys or Nancy Drew mysteries were considered "appropriate" literature for young minds.If you want a detailed rundown of the book's contents, I refer you to Apopkipos's inclusive review.Lovecraft has achieved a fame he could probably not have fathomed!
This is terrifying for western civilization (as it clearly was evident in Lovecraft through his inveterate racism), but not for those who identify with or whose very existence is the unfathomable outside that always plots and threatens to rush in to devour it.
We should, despite it's gothic beauty, guard against taking up his vision of the outside, which dangerously reflects back the mere reversed image of fundamentally flawed ontology — the belief that western civilization and whiteness are supreme or even desirable.
I can understand why Lovecraft is a pioneer of his genre, he's got quite the imagination and some of the stories are excellent.
That said, he's a rubbish writer, he has an irritating habit of finding a new phrase and repeating it ad nauseum, Cyclopean horror anyone?
Then there's the pages of detail which removes some of the horror element from the stories, sure describe the horrible monster to me but don't give me precise measurements of claw length and count the tentacles, just give me enough to build a picture and let me fill the grey shadowy bits with my own nightmares.
This is sort of like a "greatest hits" collection of Lovecraft: all his well-known stories are here, like "The Call of Cthulu" and "At the Mountains of Madness." Reading these stories back to back, though, you start to notice a few things; the racism and xenophobia is hard to miss, but also, most of these stories have the same plot.
Lovecraft changes the setting and nature of the horror in each story but after reading a few you can pretty much predict how each story is going to go because they all follow the same pattern and narrative structure.
I almost sprung for a collection of all Lovecraft's stories, but I'm glad I stuck with this one.
This was hard. On the one hand, he's the father of modern horror and yes there was some scary parts and his horror definitely is creative and different even by today's standards. But it just hasn't aged well. I don't need 110 pages of repetitive build up on the have a one-page rush through of the scary part.
Lovecraft certainly had a unique way of looking at horror. Sometimes he went out and explicitly described the violence. But more oft than not he left the reader to decide if the narrator was going mad or actually experiencing real but untold horrors.
DNF. Bored silly!
I guess I'm not a big fan of Lovecraft. Though he has really cool ideas, he over writes everything and is kind of hard to follow.
A true master of horror. So far have only read the first four stories, but I feel that is enough to gain a sense of his style and mastery of language. Lovecraft is one for the ages.
