https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16689.Citizen_of_the_Galaxy
An astute reader of Heinlein, though, may consider that this was published just a year before Have Space Suit—Will Travel, the last of the Scribner’s juveniles, in the same year as The Door Into Summer and only four years before Stranger in a Strange Land, so his transition from the more typical pure science bildungsroman of his earlier works and a more mature, serious work of the sixties had begun.
Heinlein succeeds as he has in so many of his works, by creating an entertaining story while at the same time using the science fiction as an allegory to describe his libertarian ideals about a great many subjects such as family relationships and dynamics, freedom, work ethics, and loyalty.
Some of my all-time favorite sci-fi novels were written by Robert Heinlein.
Some of the worst, stupidest, most incoherent, hipper-than-thou sci-fi novels were also written by Robert Heinlein.
It does get a little uneven in places, devoting too much time to details and skipping too quickly over large sections of events the author is less interested in, but which could have been instrumental in really capturing the reader.
Again, rambling plots and unevenness of pacing are some of Heinlein's biggest flaws when he's at his worst, but he manages to hold it together here.
It like so many others is in many ways a masterpiece.
We begin with a young boy who's a slave.
Being young, small and scrawny no one seems willing to put in the time and money it would take to train him up into a useful slave...
No one buys him that is until a local beggar buys him.We will follow this "person" through the years and as we do we'll find an interesting story concerning the Galaxy and the humans therein.This is considered (by most anyway) to be one of Heinlein's youth or teen books.
I like it, I recommend it, enjoy.
pero los pensamientos son las cosas más reales en la galaxia"Esta es la segunda novela juvenil que leo de Heinlein depués de El granjero de las estrellas.
En conclusión, no me parece que es lo mejor que he leído del autor pero llega a ser entretenida al fin y al cabo.
Es difícil superar la valla después de la obra maestra La luna es una cruel amante, de Estrella doble o Starship Troopers.El tema principal en "Ciudadano de la galaxia" es la esclavitud y, como es de su estilo, no se queda corto en plasmar sus ideas sobre el tema a través de sus personajes.A seguir con Heinlein.
¡Todavía queda muchísimo!
A rags to riches story that takes us across a good fraction of the universe & into several cultures. It's full of adventure & interesting characters. I really liked the description of the life of The People, 'free' spacers who travel the universe trading & willingly give up their individual freedom in a totalitarian society far more stringent than anything save perhaps Orwell's world of 1984 yet they're seemingly happy & well adjusted. It's one of RAH's juveniles, one of the best of a good bunch. Highly recommended in any format.
The book features a boy named Thorby.
At the beginning of the book, he is sold as a slave to a beggar man.
He trains up Thorby and turns him into a super smart and clever beggar.Then he is murdered.
I finished the book and I don't know why he died.
During the book they make it sound like it was part of a conspiracy, but then they just never get around to explaining what that is.
Doesn't matter, Thorby stows away on a ship and part 2 of the book has begun!Now he becomes one of the "People".
There is quite a bit that happens – but to what end?
There are no “bad guys” so it’s a bit bland at times.
In the end, the novel turns into a courtroom and boardroom drama.
This is connected to the overlying plot, but the coincidences involved are a bit hard to swallow.
On the other hand, this novel succeeds fairly well as a bildungsroman and as a science fiction novel aimed at younger readers.
There is almost no violence and the scientific expositions are fairly straightforward and interesting.
It isn’t a bad novel by any definition, but it did leave me feeling a bit unsatisfied.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. My second favorite Heinlein novel after The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress. Good writing, excellent characters and an interesting plot. Recommended!!
Se trata de uno de esos libros en los que, al llegar al final, te sorprendes y te lamentar de que ya haya terminado.
Echo de menos un poco más de la historia de Baslim porque me parece que no nos cuenta todo lo que podría contarnos de él, aunque eso es simple opinión subjetiva mía.
Se trata de un personaje muy creíble y en seguida conecté con él, pero al final esa evolución abrupta que muetra no me ha parecido muy acertada.
Y, sabiendo que se trata del mismo personaje, se ve un cambio demasiado drástico.
The central character, Thorby, basically passes through several different sorts of 'slavery' - ownership by another, membership of a ritually constrained culture, the discipline imposed by the armed forces.
When suspected by the Imperium he kills himself when capture is inevitable; but Thorby escapes with the help of the Free Traders Baslim had used as couriers for his messages.The Free Traders are basically spacegoing merchant princes, who have subordinated their entire lives to ritual designed to maximise profit and make it possible for a large community to live in the restricted environment of a spaceship.
When Thorby finds this new slavery constricting, he is able to join the armed forces of the Terran Hegemony, in which Baslim had been an important officer.
Citizen of the Galaxy is a throw back to the days when a complete story could be told in 250 pages or less.
A nice 3 Star diversion to a simpler time in SciFi, when "atomics" were all the rage and everyone had them, strictly for defense you know.
Heinlein tells a tale of a young lad, sold as a slave to an old beggar--who is not what he seems.
The boy grows and has adventures as he goes on a mission for the old beggar that will journey through several different cultures.
Heinlein paints 3 different cultures in full enough detail in just a few pages.
Allí se sentirá menospreciado al principio, PUES LA NOVELA TOCA, PRINCIPALMENTE EL TEMA DEL ESCLAVISMO EN TODAS SUS VERTIENTES (LOS INEVITABLES CONVENCIONALISMOS Y COSTUMBRES DE TODA SOCIEDAD O GRUPO, Y SUS NORMAS, OSTRACISMO GENERALIZADO), la nave está regida por un, para ellos, evolucionado Matriarcado ( ahora son ellas las que eligen con quién casarse y cómo llevarlo al éxito) pero a toda vista inamovible y semi dogmático, COSA QUE VERÁ EL PROTAGONISTA A TRAVÉS DE UNA ANTROPÓLOGA INVITADA EN LA NAVE:‘La mayoría de las sociedades- continuó ella- practica tanto la exogamia como la endogamia: un hombre debe casarse fuera de su familia pero dentro de su nación, raza, religión o algún grupo grande’ [...] vosotros no sois una excepción’Pero, además, ésta parte tiene acción armada con combate y prácticas ( Y teoría científica, descrita de manera simple y aclaratoria), ya que la nave debe eliminar a los piratas espaciales que trabajan para los nueve reinos traficando con esclavos.
Aunque disfruté muchísimo con el primer tercio de la novela, el segundo se me hizo algo más pesado y el finalme ha dejado un sabor un tanto agridulce porque me hubiera gustado saber alguna cosa más. En cualquier caso, he disfrutado mucho con la novela y entiendo porqué tiene el éxito que tiene :) lectura más que recomendable si os gusta la ciencia ficción y además con una cubierta impresionante ♥3.5/5
My family had a lot of pride and paying fines was considered shameful.Anyway I remembered the title and the author, but sadly the book was always checked out, whenever I returned to the library.But then many years later (like now) in a nostalgic mood I found an e-book version and decided to finally finish what I had set out to do as a child.Well, I still enjoyed the part about the young slave and the crippled beggar.
It got me to thinking that as a child I was lucky to have left off with only a memory of a young slave adopted by a wise and kindly beggar.It was like having the good Heinlein without the bizarre parts.
He's adopted by a begger/slave trade fighter in disguise, Baslim, who he calls Pop. From there, Thorby goes on to be adopted into the complicated "family" of a Free Trade ship, who's captain is fulfilling an oath to Baslim by adopting Thorby.
Thorby is then transferred into the hands of the military, as part of the Captain's oath to Baslim-- find out who Thorby really is.
The rest of the book is finished on Earth, where Thorby finally fulfills his destiny, and his legacy to Pop. As this book was ending, I kept looking at the remaining pages and thinking "no WAY this is going to resolve itself in 10, 5, 2 pages!!".
The book was a jarring mass of implied plot lines and then unaddressed instances.
At the end of the book the only conclusions I came away with were strictly based on my own guesses and speculation at how things 'might' have panned out.
I had the distinct impression that the end was a set up for further explication (it wouldn't have taken much to wrap stuff up).
I was left thinking that the writer was out of things to say.
Wouldn't recommend this book, though the characters are memorable and charming in a hazy, inconclusive sort of way.
"Freedom is a hard habit to break." Geared more toward a YA audience (before there was such a distinct genre categorizing of said audience), Citizen of the Galaxy centers around the theme of slavery, cultural development, and the meaning of freedom.
This beggar is far more than he seems, and recognizes in Thorby not only his future potential, but the possibility that he’s come from a free world and may still have family left alive somewhere.
Readers can’t help but want to see his story have a good ending.
Really good overall, but the ending was pretty loose and anti-climactic.
It's a short read but the plot moves along very quickly with LOTS happening to the main character.
I really liked this authors style of writing although a few short parts got a lil' high and mighty with the physics and engineering jargon.
Maybe it made sense maybe it didn't.
I wouldn't know.
I liked the characters and and couldn't stand the protagonist in a way that real people like him makes my stomach turn.
It was a decent climax and the ending was fulfilling.
It's the first time I have read this author and will be looking for other of his works.
I liked this book less and less, the more I listened to it (be warned: the narrator's accents are occasionally awful) and after I finished it, the more I thought and read about it.
There is a dusting of libertarian thought, not a philosophy I personally find very attractive - an anthropologist with a hideous southern accent - remember, I was listening to this - spouts some libertarian thought about mid-way through that made me scratch my head.
The book is also dusted with some military glorification; the ideal job seems to the military, certainly not trading or business.

My favorite Heinlein - listened to Grover Gardner's excellent narration. Having read and discussed Kim by Rudyard Kipling on SFFaudio I was expecting echoes of Kim to be in this book ... and they were. In a most creative way. It is Heinlein, after all.
The final part of the book has Thorby knowing his original identity but, like in The Star Beast, is back in court using lawyers to help fight for a cause.This may be why I remember it less fondly than some of RAH’s other juvenile novels read so far.
This made me feel that the novel is not entirely new, though it is perhaps the most effectively crafted of the books so far, albeit with a weak ending.As usual by now Heinlein mentions a diverse range of races and cultures throughout, something RAH traditionally revels in.
'm trying to get someone to pay me to write about this so I'll just use this as a placeholder, but in case I forget to fill that place I didn't love it. There's a freshness to Heinlein which is characteristic of that era of sci-fi writers, where the territory is so uncharted that things don't feel cliché, but I thought ultimately its moral vision is likewise kind of infantile, and some of the writing is just not great, any way you look at it. Drop.
Finally got around to reading this classic. Great characterization though I feel like it was a little odd how it all strung together, especially the end when it revealed who he really was. I would have preferred more adventuring with the trader ship folk in all honesty... but it still was a fun read. Would have made for a great series in modern times.
To the Author
This book starts out with a beggar buying a young slave boy for very little money and might set certain expectations in one's mind, but the beggar isn't all he seems to be and it's one of the best things that could happen to the boy.This is one of Heinlein's better juvenile novels.
So, I'd recommend that younger readers might want to start with another book (such as the two I've mentioned or Have Space Suit-Will Travel) this is an excellent book for a truly young adult audience.
Through this process, one of the more insightful aspects of this book, is the way Heinlein interacts with how customs aren't learned on the conscious level but that we all pick them up unawares, rarely questioning them and looking down upon those who do not fit.
While this is far from Heinlein's best work, it is worth reading for enjoyments sake and hopefully, through the process, will challenge our perceptions.
I think there could be more galaxy gallivanting, maybe a few more episodes for young Thorby, but at the same time the plot is fairly tight, and that feeling may just be the yearning I get with every book that I enjoy: I wish there was more.
Of course Robert Heinlein did write another 45 or so books, and the other two of his that I've read "Starship Troopers" and "Tunnel in the Sky" I've also enjoyed.
Certainly I feel I should read some more Heinlein.
In elementary school I simply read everything available but in middle school the contents of the school library changed.
The sexism didn't especially bother me -- eading books from the other side of the line was the least of things I got teased about -- none of the stories were particularly good.
I devoured scifi as fast as I could find them.I have to say that rereading this book as an adult was disappointing.
It was the first YA book I had ever read as an adult and I hadn't realized what a difference there was.
Nobody wants him — he’s too feisty — but he is eventually sold for a pittance to Baslim, a man who appears to be a crippled beggar.
Despite Baslim’s kind treatment, it takes a while for Thorby to warm up, but once he does he discovers that Baslim is more than he seems.
Under Baslim’s tutorage, Thorby becomes an accomplished and very well educated beggar.Eventually Thorby must leave his new home, but the knowledge and connections he received from Baslim ...
