https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/328064.Red_Sky_at_Morning
17-year-old Josh has to become the man of the household when his father goes into the Navy and moves the family from Mobile to New Mexico where they'll be safer.
The first time I heard about this book was when my mother checked it out of the library and I would hear her laughing as she read.
My mother passed away last year and she'd never shared what was her favorite read.
The hardcover copy I got from the library was the "seventh printing" and had no cover art - just a white background with a red and black title.
"Hunnerd percent."
Josh and his mother leave Mobile for their summer home in Sagrado, New Mexico to wait out the war.
Josh goes to school in Sagrado and makes new friends, but the story is not quite that mundane.
I discovered this book when I was fifteen (a new transplant from a city to a small rural town) and immediately fell in love with it.
I've given copies to people over the years, and phrases from the book have worked their way into constant use.It also has the best dead horse scene in literature, a U.S. Army VD training film which is not to be missed, and a scene with an irate father of twins that will blow your socks (and regions nearby) off.I can't see anyone old enough to appreciate it not loving RED SKY.
I therefore generally try to read books that have been recommended by people whose opinions I respect.
Red Sky at Morning is the latest example of such a book, and I am happy to say that my intuition served me well because it is a gem.
Told in the first person by a 17 year-old male, Red Sky at Morning is often characterized as a coming-of-age story and compared to novels like Catcher In the Rye and A Separate Peace.
Red Sky at Morning is a short book that deals with the complex themes of growing to adulthood and ethnic/racial tension in a humorous and inobvious manner that is easy to absorb and embrace.
Oh, I love this book. Josh is hilarious, way smarter than he has any right to be, and pretty much always upbeat, which is refreshing. I love The Catcher in the Rye as much as any other smart person who went to public high school and feels alienated a lot, but I'd definitely spend time with Josh Arnold before Holden Caulfield. And we'd eat really delicious food prepared by Excilda and laugh about how stupid racist people are and drink lots of his dad's expensive wine.
Although this book wasn't rich in plot twisters and cliff-hangers, it was inexplicably engaging and addictive. The style was flawless, peppered with rare wit and sarcasm and it is due to it that the book has all my praise. I knew the ending (and pretty much everything in between), as soon as I started reading the book, but the process itself was so much fun!
I LOVED this book, once I caught on to the tone of it. When it dawned on me that humor was on each and every page, I was hooked. I think I had a smile on my face the entire time.Thanks Lisa!Postal book club round 2016-17
I read CITR maybe twice in the 1980s, but I remember him smoking and roaming around the city aimlessly, cussing and that his sister was named Phoebe and he was concerned that she would turn out like him.
RSAM is about a kid whose Dad goes off to WWII while he and his mother end up in Small-Town, New Mexico.
Josh does all the things small town kids do, and manages to be charming and funny, yet respectful, not sullen like Holden comes off.
This book makes me laugh every time I read it.
Richard Bradford takes what could have been an ordinary coming-of-age story and makes it magical by placing it in the context of a culture clash heightened by the compromises of war.
Bradford knows that we who too glibly say "southwest" these days would rethink our assumptions if we had moved from Alabama to New Mexico in 1943, the way the Arnold family does here.
He also knows what binds us all together in spite of our differences.Very few writers can address questions of race, class, ethnicity, family, and religion with a light touch, but Bradford is one of those few, and the result is my nominee for "most underrated novel in American literature."
This book was a wonderful surprise.
I bought it while vacationing in New Mexico because I wanted to read something with a local setting, but otherwise I knew nothing about it.
The blurb on the back cover characterized it as a "coming-of-age story." OK, so here's what I expected: teenager gets into scrapes, confronts his first great tragedy, and comes out wiser in the end.
But I had no idea how FUNNY his book was.
And if you're familiar with the environment of northern New Mexico, the story is even that much more fun.
Looking at New Mexico magazine's issue on books, this book was listed as a favorite of most of the people, (authors) interviewed. So we ordered it. It was a delight to read. If you have ever lived in New Mexico or wondered why we New Mexicans are so strange, this is a great read. Warning, you may have some trouble understanding some of the language even though it is all English.
This book describes a young man's experiences during WWII as he moves from Alabama to New Mexico for his senior year of high school. It shows his adaptation to a variety of cultural and geographical changes en route to becoming an adult. The war is treated almost as a separate character in terms of the impact it had on the people on the home front. The characters are memorable. The wry wit and satirical humor made me laugh out loud frequently. l found it warm and engaging.
I had read this in high school but I appreciated it much more this time. The wry humor and great dialogue make it fun to read, but they are also a little deceiving. The book has real depth and significance beyond the sort of classic coming-of-age story. The vivid descriptions of the fictional town and its surroundings in New Mexico are very appealing. I would recommend this book to anyone.
A thin story that doesn’t go any deeper than its over-the-top stereotypes and cliches of Southerners and New Mexicans. Skirted the line with its portrayal of Catholics. I wouldn’t call this a classic. Reads like Pat Conroy‘s The Great Santini, but set in the southwest.
I enjoyed this book. The subtle humor and dialog had me laughing out loud at times.
The only matter that I had with this novel is that, at times, I felt that the every female character was put in the categories of: either a shallow airhead, a whore or a nutcase.
She is an old fashioned racist who does not tolerate the town’s diversity; she is also very weak and cannot run the household without her husband.Bradford redeems himself with the characters of Victoria and Marcia.
Victoria is the only member of the Montoya family with the intellectual capacity to go to College.
They represent a new generation of females that are opposite to Joshua’s mother.
Set in New Mexico during the last year of World War II, Josh is a 17 year old living in Mobile, AL and his dad who owns a shipyard finally gets his wish to go to war with the Navy.
Rather than leave Josh and his mom in Mobile while he goes off to war he puts them up in their vacation home in the mountains of New Mexico, a place that the wife loathes.
Josh's mom is having a hard time living without her husband and her beloved South.
But I was only a few pages in when I realized that it was simply a terrific book, greatly entertaining and laced with sardonic humor, while fully living up to the lofty description that made it sound about as fun as a root canal - it really is about the enduring spirit of youth and and values in life that count.
A great yarn and a book that prompted me to try my hand at YA fiction, which I had been dismissive of before.
I find this book heartwarming and written with genius. It's a pleasure to read and it's not just because of the well-incorporated and flowing humor, but because Josh has the best narrative voice of any character in any book I've ever read. Emotions of the characters are not necessarily ever stated outright, and yet they are apparent, right there for the reader to access with a little intuition. All of the characters are clearly, in a way that neither disguises nor declares itself outright, deeply human. Both the actions and the reactions all seem to click, to make sense.
Red Sky At Morning is a beautiful story with beautiful characters. At times, it's almost melancholic, though most of the time extremely funny! I loved that it wasn't heavy and it wasn't over the top - This coming of age story should be read by kids today and not those twilight shits and other young adult dealing with way over-the-top premises.5 stars!
This book was written in the 60s, but did not find it the least bit dated in terms of writing style, information, characterization or storyline. I also appreciated Bradford's writing style: gentle and witty. A lovely book that provides a lot of insight into the culture of the American southwest.
Beginning in Mobile, Alabama and switching locations to a small mountain town in New Mexico during World War ll, the story follows a tumultuous year in the life of a seventeen year old boy.Sensitively written and making a strong statement about racism in America during the nineteen-forties.
Bradford moves the story from old family south to old family west.
From racist attitudes about African Americans to racist attitudes about Mexicans.
And to further make things interesting adds in a pinch of reverse latino racism towards anglos, which in this part of the country includes African Americans.
This was a good book from both a “feel New Mexico” and exploring late 1960’s coming of age fiction.
If you love Philip Roth you would likely enjoy this book more than I did.
I struggled between 4 and 3 stars so 3.5 is appropriate.
Contemprary reviewers found the humor in this book of the laugh-out-loud variety.
While Ilaughed ocasionaly I ultimately felt like I was reading stand up comedy in paralle with a serious story.
Compared to the other books I have read for this challenge Red Sky at Morning doesn’t rank as hi.
One of my favorites ever - I first read the novel 40 (!!) years ago, and, although I certainly have changed, still love it.
I've re-read it numerous times, and I frequently choose it as a gift for friends.
And there is a fine sense of the absurd - sometimes captured in one devastatingly accurate sentence, as in deflating the old do-gooder who's trained Native Americans to perform ritual Dances for educational purposes.
And the book has a paragraph that I consider to be the best illustration of the absurdity of the concept of "race." I love it!
this book was everything that I hoped it would be.
It was light, funny, and insightful.
The setting is during World War II in rural New Mexico.
The main character has biting humor, unlike anything I had when I was his age.
His friends are ahead of their time.
Read this book if you want to have a quick coming-of-age Tale.
You can also read it if you're interested in the interaction between anglos and Hispanics 50 years ago in New Mexico.
Again, this book is very very funny and worth your time.
This book is 'Catcher in the Rye' meets 'Tom Sawyer', set in WWII Southwest America.
I love everything about it- the irreverent, sarcastic speech from the two Arnold men, the utterly believable characters of both the adults and the teens, the conflicts that occur in the book, just as they do in modern life- ugh!
It is such an easy read, even my husband could get into it.BUT, it is also a deep, powerful book, especially as it deals with the always-unexpected deaths of WWII, and that truly does come as a surprise to the main character.
I highly recommend this book!!
A thoroughly delightful coming of age novel set primarily in Sagrado, New Mexico, "Red Sky At Morning" tells the tale of young Joshua Arnold and his sojourn during World War II in a small New Mexico community while his father is serving in the Navy.
The book is quite funny and I laughed out loud frequently.
It is also a tale of social and racial prejudice, violence, and the beautiful landscape of the area.
The title gave me a clue as to what might happen in the end, although what happened is not the main event.
I highly recommend this book.
This book is dated, published in 1968. Attitudes towards women and race relations have to be taken with a grain of salt. But the writing is just so good. The humor is just so dry. The story is excellent. I love the setting in a tiny town in the New Mexico mountains. I really enjoyed the various characters, very real people from different cultures. A librarian I respect recommended this to me some years ago and i'm so glad she did. I finally got around to reading it.
Very well written with a dry humor that tickled my funny bone. The only part I didn’t enjoy was the author’s seeming insistence that every coming of age story must include a crudely written and awkward sexual awakening.
