https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/288518.The_Story_of_San_Michele
Several of the most prominent figures in Munthe's life are not mentioned in Story of San Michele.
پایان نقل از متن کتاب ص 409؛ اکسل مارتین فردریک مونته ( روز سی و یکم ماه اکتبر سال 1857 میلادی، اوسکرشهم سوئد - روز یازدهم ماه فوریه 1949 میلادی - استکهلم) روانپزشک سوئدی بودند، که بیشتر به خاطر همین کتاب پرآوازه‌ اش: «نامه سن‌ میکله»، نام و آوازه اش در جهان پیچید.
I had read firstly about  The Story of San Michele in some other novel and the image that emerged from it and formed in my mind then was so enticing that I knew I had to get this book.
In his person we get to know a man, first of all a humanist, trying to alleviate the suffering of every living creature, no matter human or animal, he was a great advocate of animal rights, but also understanding the need for medical experiments, which he so vividly described in the chapter devoted to treatment for rabies and his visits to Pasteur in his institute.The novel stylistically feels uneven, it's not very chronologic and sometimes you can't help the impression that he somewhat stretched the truth to tie up all loose ends.
Ce gânduri îndrăznețe îmi fulgeraseră prin creierul meu agitat când el spusese că nu îi aparține nimănui capela?""- Nu-i mai aduce așa multe jucării scumpe, îi spusei eu, copiilor le plac jucăriile ieftine la fel de mult, și sunt așa de mulți care nu au niciuna.
Am remarcat adesea că o păpușă modestă de câțiva bănuți are întotdeauna mare succes, chiar și în cele mai bogate camere de copii.
Când copiii învață să înțeleagă valoarea în bani a jucăriilor pe care le au, își părăsesc paradisul lor, încetează să mai fie copii."
There are many of these stories in Munthe’s life, and he is always on the side of the goodies....
He has a charmingly self-deprecating style though, so the endless unrolling of one brave struggle after another, with Munthe emerging as hero, is not offensive.The medicine in the book is interesting too.
He writes about death throughout the book, and seemingly had no compunction about shortening the lives of patients who were suffering in the last hours of their lives with a dose of ‘morphia’.
But this last chapter was interminable and boring, and to be honest I skipped over most of it.The rest of the book was fascinating and un-put-downable.
Silta, mīļa, jauka, gudra grāmata. Man ļoti patika.
He was probably good-looking because the rich and the royalties during his time, most of them women, flocked to him for their real and imagined illnesses.The blurb says that he was Tsar Nicholas's first choice as doctor for his ailing, only son (Rasputin only came to the picture later) but this isn't mentioned in the book itself.
I then learned that Axel Munthe was the original builder of San Michele, a lovely house on top of one of the highest peaks on the island.
I didn’t then know who Axel Munthe was or anything about him, but the guide told us that he had written this book that we should be sure to read.
This book represents his memoirs about his building of San Michele and also relates the story of his life as a doctor and man of the world.
His dream, however, was to build San Michele as his ultimate sanctuary from the world.
Nuostabiai pradėjau, daug tikėjausi, daug gavau.
Man San Mikelė skaitėsi labai paprastai, supratau daktaro veiksmus, jo mąstymą, kad visos problemos slypi viduje, o jei yra didelės fizinės kančios - jas nedelsiant reikia malšinti.
Autorius man pasirodė didis eruditas, daug išmanantis apie meną, kalbas, kultūras.
Axel Munthe regis prisitaikė prie visų gyvenime pasitaikiusių žmonių, miestų, bet tuo pačiu ir jiems davė daug, keitė juos.
Jaučiausi kaip sėdėčiau prie mirštančio rašytojo lovos ir jam nebegalint pačiam rašyti, konspektavau jo klaikius kliedesius.
Užverčiau knygą ir pažadėjau sau, kad atsiminsiu viską, grožėsiuos viskuo, o paskutinį skyrių pamiršiu lyg jo nebuvę.
I learned of its architect and builder, the renowned Swedish physician and author, Axel Munthe (1857-1949).The property itself is most notable for its construction on the site of the villa of the Emperor Tiberius; for the ancient unearthed relics thus incorporated into its fabric; and for its literally breathtaking views over the bay of Naples.However, the title of Axel Munthe’s autobiography is somewhat misleading; only a few chapters are devoted to his life in lofty Anacapri.While I found this a little disappointing, it is more than made up for by the extraordinary Dickensian snapshots he provides of his career as a fashionable doctor in Paris, Naples and Rome, as physician to the nobility, the new-moneyed rich, and the poorest of the poor.He rubbed shoulders with the likes of Jean-Martin Charcot, Louis Pasteur, Guy de Maupassant and Henry James.
Labai graži knyga :) Nežinau ar dar norėčiau skaityti šitą autorių, bet vieną kartą galima ir arbatą su cukrum išgerti... Tiesa, dabar noriu ir vėl Kaprį aplankyti, nes geras gidas
I read this great book about 30 or so years ago.
Now that I have visited Axel Munthe's extraordinary Tiberian Villa in Capri I wanted to read it again.It was worth a second reading.
He has such a great way with story telling.
The only disappointing element was the end chapter "In the old tower" where he rambles about death way too long.He built his villa by hand.
No architect, no permits, no coastal commission, no unions, & no inspectors.
Ahh...
Michele di Axel Munthe
This is the book that taught me about healthy self-mockery (Doctors like royalties should keep aloof as much as possible, or their prestige will suffer, we all look our best in a somewhat subdued light).
This is the book that also made me realise that It is not a dog we love, it is the dog and because of that instead of thinking that no other dog could ever replace him, no other dog could ever be to you what he has been you need to get another dog as soon as possible.The book is full of light and lightness.
The narrator, Axel Munthe, a Swedish physician, had written the book in his early 70's in an anecdotal, rambling format which lends to its quirky charm, but also its disorganization.
His writing is as coherent as an informal conversation, where the vignettes are the stars of the memoir, so many facts and typical references like dates are absent.
Munthe came across as someone truly believing all his own views, though they were often in contradiction just like the man himself.
In reading San Michele, I wondered how readers of old had perceived the anecdotal gaps in Munthe’s personal life, which he had shed so little light on.
Un lembo di terra scagliato in mezzo al golfo di Napoli, dominato dalla luce del sole così forte perchè si riflette sull’azzurro del mare, dove “si sente” la voce della natura: il sussurro del vento e le cicale che cantano tra i campi ingialliti, in lontananza il mare che si frange sugli scogli, i profumi dei fiori e del mare che si uniscono in una fragranza inimitabile da tecniche umane.
In some ways, it feels very ahead-of-its-time, the playfulness of the narrator/author presaging postmodern concerns.The flaw is that Munthe - while capable of some truly beautiful sentences - is not a novelist, nor even a prose writer, and is not writing in his first (nor, if I recall correctly, even second or third) language.
As a result, from top to bottom this feels like the work of an amateur, lacking sophistication in prose construction and in structure, and with a bad ear for dialogue.
And, as I say, he may lack experience and technique, but he does at time have a master ear for beautiful words.
Autobiografie švédského lékaře Axela Muntheho, pro kterého byla pouze jedna věc vzácnější než léčení jeho pacientů - a tím je ostrov Capri v neapolském zálivu.
Nejde však jen o krásu přírodní - byť se zdá, že autor rozumí řeči zvířat víc než kdokoliv jiný - jde zejména o lásku k prostotě jedinečnosti místních obyvatel a klidu ducha, který se sem vrací vyčerpán životem "módního" lékaře v Paříži a Římě.
Sám Munthe si svou milovanou vilu San Michele ("duše potřebuje více místa než tělo") staví vlastníma rukama na místě, kde kdysi stála vila císaře Tiberia.
Nenapadá mě lepší slovo, kterým bych Muntheho označila, než lidskost.
A travel classic, this extraordinary, partly fictionalised autobiography includes and is partly defined by significant elaborations and omissions (for example wholly neglecting to mention two wives).Scenes include medical life among the Parisian poor, a Scandinavian idyll and an audacious if somewhat sentimental vision of God and Heaven to conclude.Visiting Capri while reading this book was a magical experience.
This book describes a society doctor's life and his construction of a fantastic home on the Island of Capri. Although I found it pretentious and rambling, it was oddly compelling.
Taigi, galima skaityti šią knygą kaip gražų romaną, palytėtą šiokios tokios fantazijos, įvairiausių alegorijų, nuostabių nuorodų į Antikinę kultūrą, o taip pat ir visur lydinčios San Mikelės dvasios, kuri gydytojo gyvenime vaidina bene svarbiausią vaidmenį.Tačiau keistose fantazijose, alegorijose, samprotavimuose ir nukrypimuose galima nesunkiai įžvelgti ir universalių gyvenimo pamokymų, kuriais visada verta vadovautis, ir kurie lemia, kad ši knyga nėra vien paprastas romanas.
Šiais laikais, kai turime Coelho, "Knyga apie San Mikelę" gal ir nebėra itin ypatinga, tačiau matau, kad senesniais laikais tikrai galėjo nustebinti ir priversti žavėtis.
I had this book for ages. As far as I can remember myself. Never opened it. Once I had a dream, a dream in which I had opened the book and started reading it, so I woke up and it was too early to wake up, so I took the dusty book from the shelf and started reading. The end of romanticism. It's a good one, a really good one but it probably failed to stand against time. I regret not reading it before I had read all other classics, I'm sure my review would be different.
I thought this was going to be a dreamy novel about Capri but it turned out to be more of a medical memoir. Rabies in Paris, cholera in Naples, malaria in Rome (and 'neurotic' women everywhere), I thought this was a really interesting account of life + disease in late 1800s / early 1900s Western Europe.
One of the most beautiful books I've ever read, this was my fourth reading. Search for "villa San Michele" to see its wonderful views.
Изумителното на "Легенда за Сан Микеле" е, че е написана преди около 100 години, за да бъда точен за първи път е публикувана през 1929 в Лондон, а въпреки дистанцията на времето е актуална до днес.„Пуснете нещичко в касичката на „сестриците“, макар да е и най-дребната монета: уверявам ви, че няма по-сигурно от това капиталовложение.
Когато отново видях Сан Микеле, всичко ми се стори по-красиво отпреди.
Къщата беше малка, стаите не бяха много, но отвсякъде бяха обградени с лоджии, тераси, перголи, откъдето можех да на­блюдавам слънцето, морето и облаците - душата се нуждае от повече пространство отколкото тялото.

Un autre point qui vient gâcher les parties les plus lumineuse du livre est le point de vue plusieurs fois répété de Munthe sur l'expérimentation médicale sur les prisonniers et son mépris pour les femmes qu'il ne manque pas de détailler et d'illustrer par des portraits de femmes presque toujours hystériques, stupides ou méchantes.
Et puis c'est surtout l'amoureux de l'île de Capri et l'architecte de San Michele.
L'évocation de son arrivée à Capri, de la construction de San Michele et de la vie à Anacapri au tournant du XXème siècle vaut à elle seule la lecture de ce livre.
Fact or fantasy?
The Story of San Michele is something of both.
It is also an instantly engaging, involving masterpiece of mid 20th century fiction.
Although many of its scenarios and concerns are to do with a century earlier, it has the ability to evoke images of filmic, almost widescreen, power and scope.
We move from mid 19th century Italian fishermen, in their Phrygian caps, hauling in their nets, to Paris at the time of the Les Fleurs du Mal. Then there's the awesome evocation of Naples at the time of the cholera epidemic.
Then, by contrast, the dreamlike later account of his visit to Lapland.
It is autobiography of a person that definitely had an interesting and adventurous life, but it is really hard to follow.His writing basically follows his thread of thoughts, switching places, languages, making assumptions about the context of the situations that leaves the reader basically lost.
On top of that many times the stories are mixed with his thoughts about religion, his doubts about it and his interactions with the Death itself...I must admit it was curiosity and determination that kept me going to the end of this book (last 20 pages were really a struggle)...I really wanted to understand why San Michele is so important to the whole life of the author and all of the things happening to him - at the end it should be the story of San Michele...
A collection of many anecdotes of the Swedish doctor working in Paris, Rome, on trips to Lapland (one of the best bits), and in his retreat in Capri (or rather Anacapri) shared with a naughty baboon among others. the medical sections and reflections on society were interesting, and there were many laugh out loud passages like his Hamlet. Mauspassent, Pasteur and other famous people turn up occasionally as well as goblins of course.
One of the great medical books and one of the great books about Capri - much more readable and memorable than Norman Douglas' South Wind. Unfortunately (someone told me), much of Munthe's account of his heroic career as a doctor is a tissue of lies.
چاپ اول این کتاب در تابستان سال 1357 توسط انتشارات آگاه منتشر شده است.از متن کتاب - صفحه 27آدمی اگر ساعت مرگ خود را می دانست، رندگی را تحمل نمی توانست کرد
