https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7882733-murder-is-my-business
(For example, I’ve never gotten around to Ross MacDonald’s Lew Archer series, but I know they’re out there.) And of course, just as I get to be a little smug about my vast store of knowledge along comes a Hard Case Crime reissue of Murder is My Business to show me that I don’t know dick.Check out this blurb from the cover:“One of the most popular detectives of all time, Mike Shayne starred in more than 70 novels, a dozen movies, a TV series, radio dramas, comic books, and the long running Mike Shayne Mystery Magazine.”And I had never heard of him.
New Orleans detective Mike Shayne is hired by a little old lady to find her son who had enlisted in the army under an assumed name after working in Mexico as a miner for five years.
He took the case initially for fifty bucks and then set about getting a more worthwhile fee during the course of the investigation.
I'll be reading more of Mr. Shayne's cases in the future.While it wasn't my favorite Hard Case, this one is definitely on the worthwhile end of the spectrum.
Halliday will keep you guessing until the very end.
The plot is complex but it all comes together quite satisfactorily.I suppose that in some ways this book will strike some readers as being Philip Marlowe Lite.
It has the background of official corruption that Chandler’s novels had, and it has the same kind of hardboiled dialogue.
But since Halliday published the first of his Mike Shayne novels in the same year that Chandler published his first novel it would be unfair to characterise him as a mere imitator.Halliday does the hardboiled thing pretty effectively and the result is a highly entertaining little book.
Thirty pages, that's as far as I got before the language became too foul for me. I was disappointed. The radio show was fun and my copy is a first edition hardback in great condition. Oh well, another author to avoid.
Although the covers might not have been quite as overtly provocative as the new McGinnis cover on the Hard Case Crime version of Murder is My Business, the Mike Shayne mysteries always had covers that seemed salacious enough that I didn’t dare bring them home to undergo my father’s censorious inspection.
Even more refreshing to me was the fact that Mike Shayne had a cordial working relationship with the law enforcement authorities in this novel.
Mike Shayne is a bit more cynical than most, and he certainly makes sure to get paid.
These items are certainly a good recipe for a mystery that Mike Shayne slowly unravels.
Then again, as many detective stories, you will find out the real truth at the end, and I have to say, I did enjoy the ending quite a bit.
I will certainly keep my eye out for other Shayne mysteries now.
Also, the book is a pretty easy read, so if you enjoy hard boiled detective fiction, you will certainly enjoy this one.
I love to start the year with a Michael Shayne mystery.
I've already read most of the series in the early 2000s.
I didn't get to many that didn't take place in Florida and the ones being pumped out by ghost writers post-Dave Dresser or 1960.
I did have this as already read as I mixed this title up with another in the series.
The mystery is very good with many layers involved.
Still a very good mystery well worth the time - If you can find it.Bottom line: I recommend this book.
It went down as easily as good Scotch on the rocks.
(Apparently NOT Mikes drink BTW.) I'm reigning in my stars so I probably would have given this 4 stars a month ago.
It's simply a good "hardboiled" detective yarn with a plot just complicated enough to make you pause and recap now and then.If you like the genre you'll like this.
Some minor points I found interesting considering the book was written in 1944.
The other thing - a sympathetic character tells Mike early in the book about "forces moving us towards fascism in the US...."
She had been vital and alive, tingling with youth and a fervid passion for life and love." "Now," he explains, She was the embodiment of a woman who for a long time had made a habit of drinking too much, and sleeping and eating too little." A lot has changed in ten years.At Shayne's request, an autopsy is done and, lo and behold, the soldier who had been run over had been killed before the accident.
I've got to figure out a way to collect a fee." Thus, the title of this novel.Carmela's reasons for asking Shayne to stay out of the business are different than her father's though.
An endorsement by Shane Black (who loosely adapted a Halliday book as Kiss Kiss, Bang Bang) adorns the back cover and first page and it's pretty accurate.This was a VERY easy read with a twist, unpredictable plot.
I could knock elements of it in retrospect - wish there was more sexiness, or more violence etc.
But the thrust of the story was waiting for these elements to come to the fore and wondering how things would play out.
I couldn't quite get a handle on the movements behind the scenes, which is what I look for in these things.Another winner from Hard Case Crime, the best label in the world.
I have seen episodes of the "Michael Shayne" television show, but this is the first Shayne novel I have read. I greatly enjoyed it for its crispness and clever plotting, and will certainly want to read more books in the series. (The original "Brett Halliday," Davis Dresser, wrote the first 28 titles, including this one.) Shayne is a manly, blunt, red-headed detective, not given to irony or angst; and Halliday's prose style is similarly efficient and unfancy. This story is set in El Paso, and I liked the Texan and Mexican local color.
Older woman contacts Shane about her son's death. Tell's him about his joining the army and a spy ring. When the dead man's parents can't be found, Shane goes to Texas to investigate the murder. As usual he finds some one to pay his fee, and find the murder of 3 people to keep his illegal mining operation quiet. Good book, fast read.
She then hands him a newspaper clipping showing a Private James Brown was killed in a traffic accident the day after the letter was mailed.What interested Shayne was the name of the car driver that had hit him: Jeff Towne, a man running for mayor of El Paso, a man who'd been a client of Shayne ten years before when he wanted the PI to dig up some dirt on his daughter's boy friend.
Murder Is My Business by Brett Halliday.Reviewed by Galen WeitkampIf you’re old enough you may remember reading Murder Is My Business by Davis Dresser.
David Dresser was Brett Halliday’s pen name when he began the Michael Shayne series of pulp murder mysteries.
Michael Shayne is the laconic and ever alert shamus who has disentangled some of the most complex mysteries ever penned.
A number of films have been based on or inspired by Brett Halliday novels.
If you like mysteries and you have a day or two to spend at the beach, you can’t go wrong with Murder Is My Business.
Michael Shayne is hired by Mrs. Delray to look into the death of her son, Jimmie, who has been talked into enlisting in the army under an alias.
Michael Shayne is a quick thinking private eye who doesn't miss a beat.
I enjoyed reading this book.
I don't think I enjoyed it as much as some of the other crime novels I've read, but I sure feel kind of dumb for not catching on to some of the clues laid out earlier in the book.

Murder Is My Business is the first Mike Shayne mystery I have ever read, and it holds up remarkably well for a book written in 1945.
No cell phones or computers-just old fashioned legwork that saves the day.
Keep in mind this book is a child of a different era-there are certainly a few racial slurs I could have done without.
Shayne works what Ross MacDonald called "the far side of the dollar" and I actually liked that-Don Quixote will only tilt at windmills if you pay him.
Shayne is a working private eye and he wants to get paid for his efforts.
A nice dose of noir from bygone days.
A neat little mystery.
I had never read any Michael Shayne books before.
He's little tame for my tastes.
He does like the drinking, and the bartering for money, but he's basically an honest good detective, which is not as much fun in my mind.
The character of Carmela Towne in this book seems horribly depressing.
I can't imagine the way that her relationship plays out, but spending your entire life willowing away because you're being used in a scam is pretty bad.
At no point in the story does she look as strong as on the cover of the book.
A pretty good read if you're a fan of 1940s hard-boiled mystery. This was my first Brett Halliday novel and I think I'll be looking for his name on bookstore shelves - probably second-hand stores as they aren't being published anymore. But this one had a great plot; believable, fallible characters who may have been a bit cliched, but not so much so that I would avoid them; and a nice texture to the storytelling that made it a fun road to travel with the detective, Mike Shayne. Don't pass this one by if you come across it.
Another hard-boiled Michael Shayne novel set during WWII in El Paso. Put together a Nazi sympathizer, a smuggler of soldiers across the border, and a tycoon who fraudulently pretends that his U.S. silver mine is still good by bringing in Mexican silver and you have Murder Is My Business. Shayne drinks too much and never sleeps, but still manages to solve three murders plus lots of corruption connected to the war.
I always liked Michael Shayne because of the name and that Halliday based him on a real man. I wanted to like his mysteries more. They didn't seem to live up to the name, Mike Shayne or the man he was based on. I was pleasantly surprised with this book. It was time to revisit the character and this particulary novel was fast moving and entertaining. And Shayne? Cooler than I remembered him. If you're a fan of private eye stories, I think you'll like this one.
Disappointing. Shane Black's intro says his plotting is remarkably clever and shows how fear ahead of you he is, but frankly I didn't see anything that great. Lots of period detail (book takes place in 1945) that anyone writing now would spend all this time researching, but also some really embarrassing period racial attitudes. His Latino characters speak like...he'd watched some cartoons or something. A letdown.
I spent many a summer plowing through Mike Shane novels in my youth, so I was pleased to see this one back in print. I'm not sure if I had read this one before but it was still terrific. If you want a textbook definition of hard boiled, this is it. The one thing that does detract from the book is the rather unenlightened racial view.
Fast, fun and as standard a 40s private eye yarn as you can get. Quarts of hard liquor poured generously over blackmail plans and double crosses, although very short on action. Halliday's writing is straightforward and avoids any attempt at high art. He's not a Cain or a Woolrich, nor does he try to be. He tells the story and is done.
The first of many I intend to read from Hard Case Crime. How do you rate these? It's over in a day and a half, and they're not exactly meant to be high lit that opens your mind. A fun romp that weighs itself down with twists that aren't that interesting... but fun all the same.
Intricately plotted. Reading it was like watching a classic Warner Brothers noir from the 40s.
Forgettable, fun, good, hardboiled, nineteen forties, noirish.
Probably a 2.5. There isn't a lot of action & while Shayne is presented with a puzzler, things go his way the entire time. Still, a fun read.
This one had a good but convoluted mystery. Loved the characters and would read other books by this author.
Mike Shayne is always a good read. Thanks HCC for bringing this back to the world.
