https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176494.Deep_Wizardry
If ever anyone asks you what exactly is the point of a site like Goodreads, do please direct them to this review.
But when I posted this in my Goodreads review, a friend begged me to carry on, because this, the second book in the series, was one of her all time favourite books.
It's an invaluable resource for readers.This is a children's (or perhaps more properly a young adult) book, the second of a long series, but it's also an excellent read for adults.
My favorite in the series. I love how Nita discovers that an offhand promise turns out to be very serious, and how the kids find it harder and harder to work around their families. There is a very dramatic storyline that left my in tears, too.
After reading and absolutely loving the first book in the series "So You Want to be a Wizard" I just knew I had to read the second book, "Deep Wizardry".
In all honesty, this book is nowhere near as good as the first.
While it is well written and very well researched (there are many marine biology terms used throughout the novel) the plot is just moves at a very slow pace.
There were several times where I almost put the book down altogether because of the extremely dull story line and horrendously slow (slower than molasses) pacing.
It is lovely how Nita and Kit both seem to actually care what their parents think about them and don't want to lie to them, both for personal and practical reasons of their wizardry and "speaking truth." Charming and different.
I found it terribly insulting on the front that a) the author seemed to think pandering to me was appropriate rather than being realistic or fair about how people actually act b)it is very diminishing of the achievements and adventures young people have if the adults don't pose any kind of threat to their options as young characters and thus it felt like "making it easy" for the kids by reducing the challenge.

I’ve read all of the original editions, and the earlier ones have always felt a bit out of sync with the later books, since the nine that are currently out were written and published over 20 years.
A minor point, but it’s nice to tie the books more closely together, especially when you are reading them as a series and not as stand-alone novels.
Nita is 13–she doesn’t want to die, she is frantic to find a way to live, but if she doesn’t do what she promised she would do, millions of people will die.
This is one of my favorites of Diane Duane’s ‘Young Wizards’ series – not in the least because it’s full of whales! But what I love most about it is that it’s got the ‘noble sacrifice for the good of all’ scenario going on in it. With great white sharks! How cool is that?
(I love that so much, it's the origin of one of my domain names.) One of the things I enjoy most about the Young Wizards series is that Diane Duane does her best never to talk down to her readers, even though it's YA.
At the same time, trying to save all their lives occasionally requires a bit of disobedience - for example, when Nita is told she can't go out and has to anyway.
Her unhappiness at having to disobey her parents is clear, even while she knows their lives are all at stake.Definitely a favourite.
Ah, Ed. He was the best part, but also Carl, and Tom, and Peach... I love that Nita and Kit are solid best friends and are a team. Their magic is very collaborative and I enjoy this so much.
I'm glad I didn't give up on this series after the dissapointment of the first book because this second one is really worth reading.
And I have to ask, two books in, just what the death toll of these kids inspiring every random acquaintance to die for them is going to be by the end of the series.
Yeah, the whole whales and fish thing really didn't work for me.I'm still invested enough in the series, the world-building, the arch villain, and the characters to continue reading.
But I have hopes that the series will improve.After all, the next book will probably have less whales in it.
The author weaves a haunting and beautiful story, most believably, of a wizardry of the whales and the sea that must occur at the deepest part of the sea floor to contain the oldest and darkest Lone Power.
Although this series is marketed to teens, it might leave children confused and a little shaken with the philosophy and violent realities of sacrifice.
And it's a little difficult to know whether my grandchildren are ready for such a powerful story -- at what age can you be told the hardest truths?Be sure to read "So You Want to Be a Wizard" first.
What kept this from being a five star book was the whining of the heroine.
Yes, it's definitely fair to whine over discovering that you talked yourself into a situation where you have to commit suicide, but she just does so *much* of it.
I'm glad that's over with so we won't have to deal with it later in the series, but still, it was a little over the top.This book is about the protagonists taking a vacation at the beach and discovering that the sea has major problems that require the whales to perform an ancient ritual.
This was my favorite book when I was 14.
I read it so many times that I memorized large chunks of it.
I wanted to live in it.
And I haven't read it since then, because I didn't want to taint the memory - so many of our childhood favorites fail to stand the test of time.But I've been craving literary comfort food, and I found this at the library again, and it seemed like time to reread it.
I don't know if I'll go back and reread the rest of the series - but it feels amazing to find this piece of my heart again.
good book
"I'm lot sure" (rather than "I'm not sure") but I can live with them.My only real complaint about this book is that there's a plothole regarding Kit's "warning sign"; it's a pity that this wasn't corrected in the new edition.(view spoiler)[On p59, S'reee explains how Kit and Nita can change into whales.
("Nita said nothing for a moment, startled by the idea that Kit had been losing some of his talent at his speciality.
S'reee said that he'd be in trouble if he lost whalesong; losing human language (or the Speech) is the opposite of that.
How has it taken me this long to read Diane Duane??? This was definitely a "too good, will read until I physically pass out" books
(Although I do wish he had told me that this was the second book in a series - because I was pretty lost until Nita’s recap of what happened in Manhattan.
Yes, I loved the whales less than I probably would have a few years ago, but the book itself is definitely still enjoyable for adults.Overview:Things I Liked- Nita, for being relatable, and always trying to do the right thing (even when keeping her word comes at risk to her life).- Kit, for being both loyal and flawed.- Dairine, for being my favorite.
This may be my favorite of the series; it's certainly one of the top three, because of the emotional and moral power of the story.
Nita and Kit volunteer to help the whales, but they have no idea what they're getting into-I can't even imagine how hard this book would have hit me if I'd read it as a child.
Finally, Ed, and that conversation, and Nita's resolve, make it very clear that there is a difference between "nice" and "good".
I can understand some readers of Duane getting frustrated with the "technobabble" aspect of the wizardry in these books.
Nita and Kit may just be kids (12 and 11 in the NME, 14 and 13 in the older editions) but they prove again to be capable of understanding complex issues and committing themselves to helping solve them.
Here, their actions from the first book end up having some unexpected consequences for the Sea and the life that lives in it.
The lives of thousands of sea creatures are at risk, and when Nita and Kit agree to help, they end up in a situation beyond what they expected to deal with.
A ritual that originally bound the Lone Power has to be reenacted to keep the world safe, and Nita and Kit agree to participate.
I found the ritual itself questionable--why it had to involve literal sacrifice, and why wizards let her promise herself for this purpose without knowing what it meant--but accepting that it's cruel and weird, everything proceeded from the decision in a satisfying way.
In contrast, Nita and Kit just decide to tell what they're doing, which is nice since they can prove magic works (through a little trip to the moon), and Nita's sister Dairine is able to understand some of the language at one point so it's clear she's going to be a wizard too.
So, back on topic, Deep Wizardry, for whatever reason, is always the book I get stuck on when attempting to re-read the series.
Which sucks because it's LITERALLY the second book in the series.I think part of it has to do with the fact that So You Want To Be a Wizard is such an incredible ride, and the majority of Deep Wizardry is not.
LIKE THAT IS DEEP SHIT.) Makes this book worthwhile.And, as stated before in my super general review, fucking Dairiene.
Hats off to her for being able to do that.In this, the second of the series, there are lots of references to the first book and its consequences.
So Kit and Nita are on vacation, and their wizardry assignments take them into the world of the sea.Do you know what I don't like at all?
So this was a peach for me to read, considering the bulk of it takes place miles under water with a whale-sized shark as a character.But the thing that amazes me about Duane is that, by the end of the book, the shark is freaking awesome in a gravitas sort of way.
Two wizards chosen by a book, which was conveniently named "So You Want to be a Wizard" (which is also the title of the first book in this Tween/YA series by the way).In this second book in the series, Nita and Kit are vacationing at the beach with Nita's parents.
Added to that is, there is The Lone One to contend with as well as parents and an inquisitive younger sister, Dairine.Will they save the world of wizards and mortals?
Tears were running down her mother's face at the sight of that sky, so pure a velvet black that the eye insisted on finding light in it where light was not - a night sky set with thousands of stars, all blazing with a cold fierce brilliance that only astronauts ever saw, a night sky that nonetheless had a ravening sun standing noonday high in it, pooling all their shadows black and razor-sharp about their feet.When I first read these, this was my favourite of the first three.
(view spoiler)[Ed, man.
(hide spoiler)]
I did not think I would read this novel.
I had mixed feelings about the first one and wasn't sure if I would want to read more.
I think I figured out why I am having such a hard time with these novels.
Deep Wizardry has Nita and Kit at the ocean dealing with another crisis and the new world of "ocean magic".
Our characters deal with real physical threats to their lives and witness the true power of self sacrifice.
It gives me hope for the next novels, which I will read ...
Another book I wish I could have found when I was younger, because as much as I love it now, I would have been totally mesmerized then.
After reading So You Want to be A Wizard, the first book in the series, I almost didn't want to move on to this one because I knew the environment changed completely, and I loved that one so much - but the underwater whale world is so fascinating and beautifully done.
Now is wish I could just stick with this one, but I know the next book is another big shift...
3.5 stars. She rocked the ending, but earlier chapters have some issues that tried my patience. Anyway, great adventure and gorgeous characterization of Nita. I'm still leery of the amount of violence in these books, but at least she's learning how to empower herself as she loses her innocence.Side note: it is so weird to come to this series twenty-five years late. I wonder what difference it might've made to my life if I'd read this in junior high, when it was new. *ponders*
Written for teens, Deep Wizardry is good enough that it's still worth reading for adults. Beneath the exterior story of two teens who are learning to use magic and saving the world, there is a story of teens learning to grow up. The characters in the book deal with issues that every teen deals with, from pesky parents to younger siblings to a growing awareness of their own sexuality (tastefully and appropriately done for teens, of course.)
Much, much better than I would have believed.I'm usually not a fan of books centering on animal characters, but Duane seemed to make each one of the sea creatures so realistic that I forgot a shark was speaking, and not a human.The themes of self-sacrifice and friendship will really strike a chord with anyone who reads it.
