https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/409918.The_Narrows
Great series! really good writing and so eclectic (paperback!)
The Narrows brings together several of Michael Connelly's characters, including L.A. detective Harry bosch, Connelly's main protagonist; F.B.I. agent Rachel Walling from The Poet; and Terry McCaleb, a former F.B.I. profiler, who first appeared in Blood Work.Actually, as this book opens, McCaleb has just died.
The Poet was presumed to be dead at the end of that book, but it was impossible to confirm the identification of the body that was found, and anyone who's ever read a novel about a serial killer knows what that means.The Fibbies have no choice but to bring Rachel back into the fold, at least until they can figure out why the GPS was sent to her, and as it turns out, the coordinates on the GPS send them to the exact same desolate spot in the Nevada desert where Bosch is headed.
The Poet is my favourite ever Michael Connelly book.He is back in The Narrows but, although this is good, it is nowhere as good as The Poet.
Former LAPD detective Harry Bosch gets a call from the widow of an old friend.
Her husband's death seems natural, but Graciella feels that there is something wrong and his ties to the hunt for the Poet make Bosch dig deep.
Arriving at a derelict spot in the California desert where the feds are unearthing bodies, Bosch joins forces with FBI agent Rachel Walling who has received the call she's dreaded for years, the one that tells her the Poet has resurfaced.
❝ I knew this going in on the day I took the case that would lead me into the narrows. I knew that my life's mission would always take me to the places where evil waits, to the places where the truth that I might find would be an ugly and horrible thing. ❞In this sequel to The Poet, Rachel Walling is once again on the trail of the sinister serial killer that evaded her years before. Operating on the fringes of the FBI with former detective Harry Bosch, Rachel works to overcome being used as bait
❞In this sequel to The Poet, Rachel Walling is once again on the trail of the sinister serial killer that evaded her years before.
Operating on the fringes of the FBI with former detective Harry Bosch, Rachel works to overcome being used as bait to lure The Poet in and to keep him from completing his original deadly mission.
-Even though I finished The Poet a while ago, I was able to pick up The Narrows and feel like I haven't missed a beat.-Harry Bosch is such a realistic and fleshed-out character.
Meanwhile, Harry Bosch is asked to look into the death of a friend who appeared to die from natural causes.
But, it doesn't take long for his investigation to intersect with the FBI's task force.
I don't normally like revisiting former nemeses but this is one I looked forward to reading because The Poet was diabolical and I was shocked when his identity was revealed.
This case lived up to his reputation as he continued to use wit, subterfuge and distractions but this time we've got Harry involved who was up to the task.
Great series! gripping drama,intriguing storyline,lots of tense action..superb character development and Bosch always comes across as such a believable hero..well written (paperback!)
Solid addition to a satisfying seriesThe Hook Personal goal to work my way through this series.The Line “The woman had long journeys in her voice and I liked that.”The Sinker – The character of Harry Bosch captivates me.
I believe this is due to his blend of a hard-core, rough-edged cop who can throw a punch with the best of them, and in the next scene displays an underlying gentleness that brushes the hair off his sleeping daughter’s brow and appreciates, art, music, poetry or a good book.The Poet is back.
The Narrows turned out to be one of my favorites of those I’ve read in the Bosch series.
Working my way steadily through the Harry Bosch series and here I am at number 10.
I can always rely on Michael Connelly for a good read and as usual he did not let me down.
Harry is working really well at the moment, using his smarts and keeping ahead of the FBI in his investigations.
He is still working as a PI but it appears that he is about to go back into the police force.
The Narrows is the usual format - lots of police procedure interspersed with action and plenty of suspense.
The way Connelly writes it it really works.
But, my point is this novel is by no means standalone and requires a bit of reading from other books in Michael Connelly's bibliography to fully get what's happening.The story is split over 3 viewpoints, the main two are Harry Bosch (first person narrative) and Rachel Walling (third person narrative) and then there is The Poet but there are only a few bits dotted around for them (also third person narrative).
Poor lazy hippy.You really need to read The Poet before reading this one as it is basically the sequel to that even though Bosch wasn't in that one.
In Narrows, Connelly brings together several of his regular characters like Terry Mcaleb from Bloodwork and Rachel Walling, the FBI profiler.
They come together nicely as Bosch and Walling chase a serial killer using clues from the ghost of Mcaleb.
One thing I didn't like was that Connelly wrote Bosch in first person, while the rest of the book was in closely held third person point of view.
I'd like to see him write the whole book in closely held third when he's using all these other characters.
I found this story to be all right, but not exceptional. It could have used more action and a clear, refined end in my opinion. 6 of 10 stars
And it didn't take long for Harry to get back into the life of the most sly character seen in awhile, The Poet.I think it was GR friend Harry who said reading the The Poet was a must before reading The Narrows and it was good advice.
Harry Bosch, a loner, but the best and brightest of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD), took an early retirement and works now as a P.I. The wife of a fellow LAPD detective asks Harry to investigate the natural death of his friend who received a heart transplant.
Being on the east coast, I was curious about the Los Angeles River and the narrows.
I know there are some big Connelly fans, and I’m sure he’s written better books than this one, so I’ll try to keep my feelings factual and concise.* Some people call it a “mystery”, yet there’s no mystery.
When your protagonists are supposed to be a smart homicide detective and a smart FBI agent, it gets annoying to shout “NO NO NO NO NO!” at them when they do something that is clearly a horrible idea.* The two protagonists lie, use, and manipulate people throughout the book, in one case seriously playing with a man’s life.
Michael Connelly is just phenomenal and Harry Bosch is by far and away this genre’s best character.
I didn’t love The Poet or the Terry McCaleb books as much as I enjoy the Bosch series and in this book we see the return of both of these characters (well, McCaleb is dead but still plays a huge role in the telling of this story).
The Poet was an intriguing character when we last read about him and I was excited to see how Bosch would hunt him down whilst not having a badge and while being warned off by the FBI.
My emotional reactions are the main reasons for star differences.In each book when the story begins, I have absolutely no idea how I would investigate or solve it.
But it is much better if you read “The Poet” first, which is a non-Bosch book.
Ending: Not exciting, but positive.THE SERIES:I recommend reading the Harry Bosch books in order, but it would be ok to try “The Last Coyote” or “Lost Light” first just to see if you like the style.
Blood Work (McCaleb series #1) Bosch is not in this.3 ½ stars.
The Narrows (sequel to The Poet) Bosch is the main investigator.
For those who have read all the Michael Connelly books in order (not just the Bosch series), this is a great book.
This prequel book is not only a dynamite mystery, but the identity of The Poet is a major shocker and fun surprise.
"The Narrows" tells you the identity in chapter one, with the assumption that you have either read the prequel, or do not plan to.
But there is no hit-and-miss with Connelly, he is the most consistent mystery/suspense author I've read.
Alive!, Pop of King, he says: "There's little romantic in ''The Narrows,'' by Michael Connelly (Little, Brown, $25.95), but one does not enter the dark world of ex -- LAPD detective Harry Bosch expecting hearts and flowers.
Connelly doesn't always write about Bosch; I've always thought his best book was the gruesome (and excruciatingly suspenseful) ''The Poet,'' published in the mid-'90s.
''The Narrows'' is a sequel to ''Poet,'' and if you save this for hot weather, forget the air conditioner; the chills come built in.
THE NARROWS relies heavily on characters and developments from previous books in the Harry Bosch series.
Rachel Walling, the FBI profiler who with journalist Jack McEvoy broke “The Poet” case is back.
The tension in A DARKNESS MORE THAN LIGHT arose from McCaleb's profile that appeared to implicate Bosch in a gruesome murder case.
At the same time Bosch is investigating McCaleb's death, Rachel Walling is summoned to Quantico because “The Poet” has resurfaced.
Nevertheless, I missed the broader evocation of Los Angeles present in so many of Connelly's other books.In this book Bosch is working on his own, having retired from the LAPD.
Now the poet is back and worse than ever.Whilst investigating the suspicious death of a friend Harry finds information that puts him on a path that could lead to the Poet.At the same time FBI agent, Rachel Walling's, who was instrumental in discovering who the Poet was in the first book, is also on the trail of the Poet.Their paths intersect and Harry and Rachel team up in a desperate attempt to stop the Poets killing spree.This another well crafted thriller from Michael Connelly.
Harry and Rachel make a great team bouncing ideas of each other whilst covering each others backs.
Harry Bosch in the first person. What? Yes!I admit I have a soft corner for anything written in the first person especially detective fiction. And so, The Narrows got some brownie points from me right from the get go. And some more for killing Terry off-screen. As for the rest of the story, it is fine.
Deeply satisfying
"The Poet" which this is the sequel to is one of my least favourite Connelly books but adding Bosch into the equation made this possibly my favourite so far in the series.
This was very hard to put down and the combination of Bosch plus Rachel Walling worked really well.
Almost 5 stars except that I felt a bit let down by the abrupt ending which wasn't very satisfactory.
However, there was one very clever twist at the end which I never saw coming.
On to the next in the series - let's hope that they continue like this !
I read this for "Murder Most Foul": The Narrows by Michael Connelly which is part of a murder mystery series (Harry Bosch).A FBI agent named Rachel Walling is trying to track down a serial killer called The Poet.
Until Bosch and Rachel Walling meet the book reads as two different stories.
So Bosch looks into that why we go back and forth between his investigation and Rachel Walling being pulled from no man's land to see if she can give some insight into a series of murders that have been uncovered in the desert near Las Vegas.
Bosch acting like they were really good friends and getting angry about someone murdering McCaleb didn't even feel real.
Connelly does it again, really pulls a lot of strings together & spins a twisting tale that's impossible to put down, especially if the books have been read in order.
Harry is really on his game in this one which makes it even more fun.What constantly amazes me is how interesting these books are without a lot of graphic violence & sex.
He really makes it come alive & lends us Bosch's sense of dedication somehow.
For the correct reading order of these books, see my chronology in the review of the first book here:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Next comes The Lincoln Lawyer, the first of the Mickey Haller series.
READER BEWARE: I’ve been binging these books and I’m not creative enough to find a billion ways to say “this was another good book” in a particularly interesting or original way so this is gonna be a pretty half-assed review.Definitely a Harry Bosch novel but really a sequel to The Poet for reasons I won’t get into due to spoilers.
I disagree with that statement but it’s still pretty dark, disturbing and fast-paced for a Connelly novel, which usually have a lot more to do with police procedure and the varied but ultimately banal and petty reasons people commit murder.
Michael Connelly is just so damn good. His storytelling, narrative, and plots are unparalleled... and he does it at such a prolific rate.What I enjoyed most about the Narrows was how previous Bosch Universe characters melded together into an outstanding novel. Connelly used the differing narratives really well in it, too. Of the 14 Bosch Universe novels I've read so far, this would rank in the top third.
This is only the second Harry Bosch novel I've read...though it's the 10th in the series. I found it better than the first. I do think that I've finally hit a stopping or at least a pausing place in my "Michael Connelly marathon". Mr. Connelly has several characters in several series and they occasionally cross over and interact with each other. We get Rachael involved here with Harry as we (view spoiler)[ tie up (hide spoiler)] the career of the psychopath known as the Poet. I read this as I wa
(view spoiler)[ Actually I meant to follow that story and missed one book.
(hide spoiler)]The Poet is a good character.
One of the problems I have with Mr. Connelly's books (that others may not have) is that I'm not heavily into the emotional side of the story.
In Mr. Connelly's books his characters are cursed with emotional baggage.
harry tells us, it's a chemical fuse, it will burn even under water and "can't be extinguished" and if the they jerk it out (from under the door where it disappears) that may set the bomb off!
PROTAGONIST: Harry Bosch, PISETTING: California and Las VegasSERIES: #10 of 18RATING: 4.0WHY: "The Poet" has returned.
He's taunting the authorities (and his former FBI colleagues, in particular, Rachel Walling) with GPS coordinates that lead to several bodies in a remote Nevada location.
After shooting the Poet, Robert Backus, Rachel has ended up in persona non grata in a South Dakota FBI office.
There's a connection to the death of Terry McCaleb, a former reporter who ran into the Poet.
McCaleb's wife has asked Harry to make sure the death was not a murder.
Harry and Rachel cross paths and pursue the serial killer.
Another great Harry Bosch book. While I don't normally love a single book using multiple narrative techniques, neither the switching between the points-of-view of Harry Bosch, Rachel Walling and Robert Bachus, nor the switching between first-person and third-person perspective, bothered me. I am deducting a star, however, because there was no warning that I was starting a novel that was clearly a sequel to Michael Connelly's The Poet, which I hadn't already read, and isn't a Harry Bosch book.
Like many of Connelly's books, the build up is rather slow as Harry follows the clues and collects evidence.
However, everything ultimately comes together smoothly in the 2nd half and the last few chapters are action packed and exciting as Harry goes head to head with one of the most nefarious villains in Connelly's books.
On a final note, the alternating 1st person narrative for Harry and 3rd person narrative for other main characters is exceedingly distracting.
The next installment in the series has Harry once again returning to the LAPD as a cold case investigator, and I look forward to seeing him in his element once again.
