https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53834.The_Jesus_I_Never_Knew
So while I was very familiar with the facts of the gospel story by the time I'd read this book in 1997, I'd also grown into some very hardened preconceptions.An example: when your first image of the Beatitudes (the first part of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount as recorded in Matthew 5) is through pop-up book images and the narration of a primary-school level Sunday School teacher, you tend not to have any sense of the provocative power behind Jesus' words.

A very fresh look at Jesus - that is, no sign of all the preconceptions we usually have. Informative historical context, insightful commentary on our culture's interaction with the Jesus of the gospels and quite a humble writing style - Yancey seems willing to let Jesus speak to himself, and thus to his readers. So many efforts are made to reinvent Jesus, but Jesus cannot & need not be reinvented - we just need to make the effort to come to grips with him.
Even though I found myself tripping over many of the events, the book did give me a thorough re-introduction to Jesus and like the title indicates, I felt I was reading about the "Jesus I Never Knew."The best thing this book did for me I found in the last chapter in which Yancey breaks down what he has learned about Jesus in several categories or impressions.
Jesus was God's exact replica."Also, Yancey asks himself a bold question and answers boldly, "Why am I a Christian?
He is who I want my God to be."After reading this book I have a clearer idea about who I want my God to be.

I've been reading Philip Yancey since I thought of him and Stephen Lawhead as my wise older brothers or youth leaders when they wrote for Campus Life magazine in the 1970s.
Yancey's work on prayer has been an occasional dip-in-and-contemplate book in my nightstand, and I love his friendly style and devotional approach to the things he writes about.
He's solid on the fundamentals of the faith but openly curious beyond that.This title fulfilled all my hopes and I enjoyed a couple of months of bedtime reading exploring his thoughts--and mine--about Jesus.
Enjoy the extracts I've highlighted below this review on Goodreads.
In that book I read that the author after extensive research and receiving visions, became a Christian.
Perhaps there is a reason for that—a Divine reason perhaps?I found it interesting how Yancey shows how Jesus was not really forceful, not on the surface at least.
From it, I found that Jesus was perhaps setting us goals to live by, proving He was the Greatest Negotiator of all!
Probably the government never read such books.Yancey shows a new way of looking at Jesus and understanding Him. It made me want to carefully go through the Gospels and read them thoroughly.
But Yancey does just that, and partially quotes Jesus as saying, "it will be better when I leave," without then revealing the coming of the Advocate and Comforter.This failure to mention the Holy Spirit then leads Yancey into a speculative mess about the church's dualistic history (being both great and bad) and the individual Christian's often sinful life.
And, coming full circle, we can only become more like Christ with the help of the Holy Spirit, which I think would help Yancey's approach to life after the Ascension.He used Peter and his denial of knowing Jesus as an example to build his case about God using messed up people for his church and kingdom, but once more, one must look at the difference the Holy Spirit made once it descended and entered into Peter.
Here's what my brother had to say when he recommended it."The author is a quote-unquote believer but refreshingly candid about his own fears, doubts about, and frustrations with God. It is a guileless book, without pretense, and I believe most anyone--"believer", "non-believer," Christian, Jew, Buddhist, or Muslim--(though they might not agree with everything said) would be pleasantly surprised by what they find in it.
As it turns out, many of us raised-Christians have been handed down a "Jesus" that is decidedly distorted, cankered, and for many (I would say) untrue.
This book is a must read. I have attended church my entire life and this book completely changed the way I view Jesus, in a good way. It made me realize how much more amazing Jesus is. It took me a long time to finish the book because I kept going back and re-reading the chapters because it was just that good. I highly recommend this book.
I really enjoy Philip Yancey's writing. There was nothing here that was particularly revealing or new information about Jesus, but the author seems to have a way of writing that gets your mind engaged and thinking about the topic in different ways. I'd definitely recommend this one.
Book that seeks to discover Jesus in time and history--to observe him as he traveled and taught and ask: who Jesus was, why he came, and what he left behind complete with dusty details and descriptions that bite into what it was like to experience pursuit of God and pain, friendship and a fan-following in Galilee.Following are my lessons learnedWhy God does not force belief or display His power--Goodness cannot be imposed externally, but most grow internally, bottom up.
Jesus healing, grace, good news can now be brought to all through the Church.
كتاب رائع ..ستشعر انك تحيا مع المسيح فى العصور الاولى وسيضعك مكان كل شخص تعامل مع المسيح ويجعلك تفكر كيف سيكون رد فعلك مع كل موقف ...يحلل رد فعل كل مجموعه من الشعب تجاه المسيح من منظور مختلف لم اكن اعرفه من قبل ...ابدعت ،فيليب يانسي
A deep read. Every sentence was powerful. Highly suggest reading this book. We studied over several sessions with a small study group.
really, at first, i thought he needed to change this title to The Jesus I Kinda Already Knew Pretty Much.
i thought this book was going to be more of a biographical story of how one man is changed by an encounter with Christ as opposed to his idea of who Jesus was and is.
as he started to research this Jesus, his life changed.
when i read about Jesus, it is hard to not be changed.
reading this book, certain things about Jesus that we highlight--almost apart from the person of Jesus--jumped out in their clarity.
It was good, but I didn't really walk away with anything new or profound, which I suppose is a good and comforting thing.
I loved his references to other authors like Tolstoy, CS Lewis, Flannery O'Connor, Dostoevsky, Kierkegaard, and others.Perhaps the thing I enjoyed the most, which is odd, is how honest Yancey is about his thoughts and what he believes...
It seems as though he and I were raised in the same church, and I'd love to read more of what he's written since I'm pretty sure he approaches topics from a similar perspective as mine.Was the book profound?

This book changed how I viewed my Christian faith on a personal level and on a historial level.
As a Christian, naturally I knew "about" Christ, however, like Yancey I eventually sought an angle of the Lord that wasn't distorted by the culturally-biased image of a blue-eyed creamy-skinned Anglo-Saxon male with good teeth that brandishes itself so frequently on the "Children's Illustrated Bible" and the like.
In this book, I believe Yancey has created a snapshot of Jesus Christ that is not only magnetic, but is also truly and thoroughly human.
I recommend this book for believers and non-believers alike who wish to understand the historical Christ and his teachings in a refreshing way.
This is an outstanding book.
Philip Yancey reflects on our preconceived inklings of Jesus and how his own perception of jesus changed through his life.
It made me reflect on my own understanding.
One of my top favorite christian books.
My favorite quote (well, one of them) :"Why am I a Christian?
I sometimes ask myself, and to be perfectly honest the reasons reduce to two: (1) the lack of good alternatives, (2) Jesus.
Brilliant, untamed, tender, creative, slippery, irreducible, paradoxically humble--Jesus stands up to scrutiny.
He is who I want my God to be."HE IS WHO I WANT MY GOD TO BE.
This book was Book of the Year when it was released 20 years ago, and I can see why. It promises a fresh look at the life of Jesus without pretense, and it delivers. Certain chapters, such as chapter 13 on the Kingdom of God, are just as relevant today as in 1995. I don't agree with Yancey on everything, but I do like the honest, human way in which he approaches the Bible and the Lord. I highly recommend this book.
A good read for all Christians. Although I know a lot about Jesus, some of the information taught me even more. I loved the way Yancey wrote much of the book by looking at the events as if he were living during that time instead of from a current viewpoint and looking back on the events and already knowing the outcome.
كتاب جيد وبسيط به بعض الافكار الجديدةويصلح للقراءة السريعةكنت اظن أن به بحثا أكثر وعمقا اخرولكن أغلب الافكار به سبق وناقشتها كتب أخرى فتقديم ضوء جديد لشخصية المسيح يحتاج مجهود جبار فليس رؤية لجانب او موضوع ايمانى بل الحديث عن المسيح شخصياكتاب جيد عاما ويصلح لاعادة القراءة
I had this book on my shelf for a number of years but had put off reading it because I thought of Philip Yancey, the author, as primarily a religious fundamentalist/Evangelical writer.
Why I had purchased the book in the first place, I do not remember, but when finally getting around to reading it, I was pleasantly surprised.
It reads "Meanwhile he offended pious Jews with their strict preconceptions of what God should be like.
Could we be perpetuating an image of Jesus that fits our pious expectations but does not match the person portrayed so vividly in the Gospels?"
I have danced around this book for years.
I would pick it up and start the first few pages and then put it down.
The beginning didn’t really grip me very much.
I got to seminary and thought that I was above popular level works such as this.
Then I got into ministry and realized the arrogance of my former opinion.
Besides that, it wasn’t really fair to Yancey.
He takes it to the “so what?“ level.
This book is peppered with quotes, illustrations, and examples from Yancey’s own life and ministry, scholarly works, novels, poems, and movies.
I LOVED this book. Yancey explores the ways in which the church has tamed Jesus and distorted who he is. We must understand who Jesus is according to the Gospel and history, not according to our own biases. We can't look at Jesus based on who we want him to be. Yancey is an eloquent writer who always emphasized grace and his own humility. This book will change the way you look at Jesus. I highly recommend it!
Yancey gives a refreshing and clear look into who Jesus really was and the life he lived while on earth. Going scene by scene through his life, the reader walks away challenged and convicted about the message Jesus taught. Highly recommend.
You'll want to read it and read it again.
I have read this book several times!! We have it on the shelf. Thanks for thinking of me!!! I'm gonna write a comment on his 2001 book I'm reading now: Soul Survivor. More later
I found myself moving through it slowly, savoring and considering the author's unique approach of "looking at Jesus' life primarily from 'down below'." The gospel narratives are presented as the foundation for Yancy's attempt to explore why today's church doesn't do a better job of representing Jesus to our world.
As the church continues to fumble along, trying to live like Jesus before a dying world, it is inspiring to remember that Jesus dearly loved his bungling and frequently misguided disciples.
He died to show them (and us) what real love looks like, and he was resurrected to give them (and us) hope and power beyond our failings.
God resists those temptations now as Jesus resisted them on earth, selling for a slower, gentler way.Although power can force obedience, only love can summon a response of love which is the one thing God wants from us and the reason he created us.Love had its own power, the only power ultimately capable of conquering the human heart.In Milton's words, Jesus "held it more humane, more heavenly first / By winning words to conquer willing hearts/ And make persuasion do the work of fear.Where he was, joy was.The American Dream is to reach a point in your life when you don't have to do anything you don't want to do and can do everything that you do want to do.Dependence, sorrow, repentance, a longing to change— these are the gates to God's kingdom.Adam told him that what makes us human is not our mind but our heart, not our ability to think but our ability to love.
