https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37732.Are_You_There_God_It_s_Me_Margaret
I first read this book in kindergarten.
Without missing a beat, my mother said "The dot at the end of the sentence." Patronized again, I cried, "I know what that kind is.
I'm talking about the kind Margaret doesn't get until the end of the book!"This is the stuff family legends are made of.
Beyond that, it's a great book, but I sure am glad I don't have to use the contraptions Blume describes within as my feminine hygiene products of choice.
Isn't it pathetic that as a girl, once you learn about periods, you just can't wait to get one, and then for the rest of your life, you just wish the effers would go away? Except of course, the periods that show up JUST when you need them to- like when one is perhaps a few days late and not super confident in her decision-making skills during the last month. Those periods are probably even better than the satisfaction of that very first one.
During the final round in the 2011 Miss Universe pageant, Miss Philippines Shamcey Supsup was asked this question:  ”Would you change your religious beliefs to marry the person you love? Why or why not?” Supsup answered:  ”If I had to change my religious beliefs, I will not marry the person that I love. Because the first person that I love is GOD who created me. And I have my faith and my principles. And these what make makes me who I am. And if that person loves me, he should love my God too. T
After all, this is a very girlie book as it deals with young girl’s fears, first crush, new girl trying to fit in to her new school and her select friends whose mantra is to make their breasts bigger: ”We must, we must, we must increase our busts." But, while reading Margaret’s thoughts, if I try to imagine what my daughter went through or even still going through, I think this is a worthwhile book to read by any father with a daughter regardless of their age.
You do not doubt her existence for a moment, and her struggles with faith, family and her fluctuating figure fill her every day with hopes and fears.Margaret is the only child of a Jewish father and a Christian mother who have denounced their religions as the only acceptable solution to raising a child within this dynamic.
My daughter, toward the very end of the read, wrapped her body around a pillow and said, “Mommy, I love this book so much, it makes me feel almost embarrassed.”Ah, dang it.
This novel discusses subjects of importance to preteen girls, like kissing, bras, boys and menstruation. Presence of religion, but no exasperating preaching. Parents, gift this to your children.As a side note, Margaret is the only girl I know who is excited about getting her period. The way I see it, the longer the wait, the better. Because blood, cramps and no white pants.
And how else can one completely alarm and overwhelm a modern 10-year-old about the mysteries of the pubescent female body without the mention of the belt?When I first read the book, not only was I terrified of getting my first period, especially at school, but I thought I at least had the basic mechanics down of all the necessary accoutrement.
"Are You There..." is a phenomenal book, more for Margaret's quest to understand the workings of the life around her (inter-religious household; crazy relatives; despondent fathers; nutty friends; and 15-year-olds who are just too hot to handle), than for her journey through early pubescence.
I'm feeling very nostalgic today. I can still remember sitting on the floor in the library and reading this book. One of my favorite authors when I was young. If I didn't have so much to read I would read it again now. Actually if I can find my box of old books I probably will read it again. I LOVED this book :)
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ Eeks am I getting behind in posting reviews. Are You There God, It’s Me Margaret was my final selection for Banned Books Week. I was extremely hesitant to re-read this since it was one of my childhood favorites. I was terrified my trip down memory lane would wind up filled with potholes and other bumps in the road that would lessen my enjoyment. Boy was I wrong! I loved Margaret just as much now as I did back then. Judy Blume was my g
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/
Eeks am I getting behind in posting reviews.
Are You There God, It’s Me Margaret was my final selection for Banned Books Week.
I loved Margaret just as much now as I did back then.
Highly recommended to young girls at that awkward “in between” age when they aren’t quite a kid, but not yet a woman.
Oh, and in case you live in a cave and have never heard of this book before, the subject matter that made it so “controversial” that young humans need to be protected from it????
What makes Blume so wonderful - well, there are lots of things, but one of them is that she respects her audience, which is specifically 12-year-old girls and no one else.
Twelve is very late to learn." And what I love is that by the end of the book, (view spoiler)[she's made no decision whatsoever.
What you and/or your girlfriend remember about this book is that it's the first one that talked about boobs and periods, and this is why Judy Blume is one of the great heroes of literature: she takes growing up seriously, which is important because growing up is serious business.
For Margaret, the growing up years are starting off with a myriad of changes.
Margaret is on the cusp of adolescence and all she wants is to fit in and be “normal”.
Judy Blume has done a fantastic job of relating the thoughts and feelings girls experience as they begin to make the transition to adolescence.
I'm sure many girls would say that reading this book is like reading their own diary.
So much of what Margaret feels and thinks resonates with the reader.
A fantastic book that lets girls know that they are not alone in their thoughts and feelings.
The girl I was reading with was very moved by the book.
As a young, fat boy, I read Blubber and Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing (along with 1001 Arabian Nights) over and over under the covers by the yellow haze a penlight affixed to a keychain.There were nights those stories saved me, for those moments I knew I wasn't alone.
There were people just like me out there somewhere suffering while running in gym class and stuggling with geometry and telling a 1001 stories to save our lives.
But then she starts telling everyone that she doesn't believe in God. And whenever she says that, she thinks to herself that she hopes he's listening.
Here's the problem: I'm someone who, without rancor, doesn't happen to believe in God. And I've had several people tell me something along the lines of, "Deep down, you know he really exists," and imply that it's not that I don't believe; it's that I'm angry.Part of that is understandable, since I do run around ranting all the time.
Think about it: In newspaper articles, people are described as belonging to certain religions.
Oh I remember reading this book when I was 11 years old and I'd just gotten my first period (oh the trauma!!!!!!) and knew NOTHING about EVERYTHING even though I refused to admit publicly that I didn't understand anything!!!
And I DISTINCTLY remember the contraptions that Judy Blume described as for use as a sanitary towel in this book....
My mum was the one who introduced me to Judy Blume and I'm so grateful to her for bringing home Judy's books from the library for me to read.
She was eternally bringing home books that she thought I would love.
You have to love a book with the lines "We must, we must, we must increase our busts."
This is an excellent middle-grade classic about a girl who, rather than having to pick a faith, creates her own personal version of faith and religion. Creative and daring, Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret is an incredible story for all ages.
Are you there feminine side? It's me, Justin. It was great getting to know you better. Full review on the way....
داستان کتاب در مورد دختری ۱۲ ساله به اسم مارگارته که تازه وارد دوره نوجوونی شده، داره خودش، بدنش، عقایدش و حتی دیدگاهش به خدا رو وارسی و کشف میکنه.به نظرم کتاب برای دخترهای نوجوون میتونه خیلی جذاب باشه و برای خودم بامزه و یادآور خاطرات درگیریهای ذهنی کمابیش مشابه تو اون رده سنیه.شخصیتپردازی کتاب متوسط اما شیوه روایت برام بسیار جذاب بود. اما پایانبندی کتاب رو دوست نداشتم و به نظرم یه دفعهای تموم شد و هنوز خیلی جای کار داشت.+ من نسخه انگلیسی کتاب رو خوندم و پیشنهاد می کنم اصلا نسخه فارسی رو نخونید
داستان کتاب در مورد دختری ۱۲ ساله به اسم مارگارته که تازه وارد دوره نوجوونی شده، داره خودش، بدنش، عقایدش و حتی دیدگاهش به خدا رو وارسی و کشف می‌کنه.به نظرم کتاب برای دخترهای نوجوون می‌تونه خیلی جذاب باشه و برای خودم بامزه و یادآور خاطرات درگیری‌های ذهنی کمابیش مشابه تو اون رده سنیه.شخصیت‌پردازی کتاب متوسط اما شیوه روایت برام بسیار جذاب بود.
متن انگلیسی کتاب بسیار ساده و روونه و حتی اگر انگلیسیتون متوسط باشه راحت می‌تونید بخونین.----------یادگاری از کتاب:I hate people who call you dear....I just think it's foolish for a girl of your age to bother herself with religion.
Are you there, Judy Blume? It's me, Brian. I loved your book. I devoured it in one sitting. It was enlightening but at the same time funny as can be. Never had I ever wanted to be a ten year-old girl, and now I kind of do. Is that okay? Am I normal? I find myself going up to my friends and saying, "I must--I must--I must increase my bust." They think it's strange. Anyway, thanks for writing this story. It was more fun than a Pixar movie and taught me a lot. I hope you have a good day.
As a child, this was one of those books that I read over and over (probably because my mom didn't want me reading it).
I was about as clueless as Punky Brewster on her first trip to get the self-proclaimed "over the shoulder boulder holder."
I thought my mom's stick tampons were antiquated), but I did have a laugh over the fear of being the last one in a group of friends to get their period.
If only I could have warned my pre-pre-pre-teen self : No, really.
I was prohibited from reading Judy Blume books. My parents said so. So, beginning in the seventh grade, I secretly checked them out from the school library and hid in my room and read them instead of doing homework. Ahhh, clandestine reading. This was the first that I read and, though not my favorite Judy Blume, definitely something I wouldn't mind taking a crack at now. I wonder if it would be as good reading it now that my parents don't care?
Every Saturday growing up, my mother would drop me off at the public library and wouldn't come back for several hours. Instead of dwelling on the problem of abandonment, I got lost in the stacks and one day found this book. I remember loving it and rooting for and identifying with the main character--a girl trying to reach out, needing only someone to listen to her as she tries to figure out what the hell is going on.
I read this book while living in Greece and listening to Kasey Casem's top forty.
What does it have to do with this book?
I was about ten, aleady had boobs and a period (both of which I wanted to jettison).
I found the book amusing because I could relate to the religious power struggle that plagued our protag.
Anyway, adorable book.
Funny (pads used to have belts???
Sad (Margaret longing for her period and wearing cotton balls in her training bra.
I've been told the "belt" references have been removed.
I'm not about to read this damn book again.
This book is not for me.
I was with head shaking and consternation reading (or at least trying to peruse without either grumbling or laughing derisively) some of the more vehemently negative reviews (the tirades) for Are You There God, It's Me, Margaret?, and ha, ha, ha, what many of these ranters and ravers so unilaterally and utterly despise about Judy Blume's Middle Grade girl's classic, is precisely what I have always loved, and what I totally and utterly personally appreciated when I read this novel at around the age of twelve or so, namely the detailed description of how Margaret and her "club" of preteen girlfriends (even though some of them like Nancy Wheeler are most definitely rather annoyingly what one would definitely call fair weather friends) deal with the beginning of puberty, in particular the start of what we euphemistically call our monthly visitor.
Re-read this recently for the hell of it and was once again swept away by Blume's talent for capturing the adolescent spirit (god, how awful puberty was). Unfortunately, the newer addition featured some technical updates (women will know what I mean), and I see why they did this, however I think girls today would be well served to learn how clunky feminine hygiene products were back when Margaret first hit the shelves.
This book made no sense to me (no, I didn't read it en español, that was just the best cover).
I thought the characters were totally crazy, and couldn't relate at all to their bizarre obsessions and behavior.
I could not for the life of me figure out why anyone in her right mind would look forward to bleeding out of her private parts, let alone what was so desirable about wearing a bra, or growing breasts in the first place, let along pubic hair (ew!).
I went home and read it in the confines of my room and hid it from my mom (like she would have cared...
I think I read it at the exact right age and it was the first book that spoke to me, voicing my earliest adolescent feelings.
and I was that girl who secretly spoke with a God I didn't know or understand every single night; desperately hoping he was listening and finding the subject way to personal to discuss with anyone.
I don't think I would want to re-read this one now as I think it would diminish the impact it had on me then.
Margret moved to New Jersey from New York and on the first day of 6th grade and joins a secret club with her friends.
Insightful about the way kids think.
They would have helped me a great deal but by the time this one was published in 1970, I was married and having my first baby.I decided to read this now because I have come to the part of my memoir where I need to write about my early awareness of sex and all that goes along with changing from a child to a teen to a young woman.
I'd heard that Judy Blume addressed these issues and thought maybe reading her books would help.
If you are a daughter and your mom or teacher or anyone tells you not to read it, you will have to make your own decision as well.
