https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77156.Plainsong
Victoria Robideaux is 17 and pregnant.
Her mother throws her out and she is taken in, for a time, by the kindly Maggie Jones.
She winds up with two brothers, Raymond and Harold McPheron, sheltered gentlemen who have spent their entire lives working the same ranch in the home in which they grew up.
Dark forces abide in the town as well, and are given their due attention, as well.
But it is a very human town that Haruf portrays.
This is a work of art.
Other Kent Haruf books we have enjoyed-----Our Souls at Night-----Benediction-----Eventide
Despite the pain, there is always tender, tentative hope: "They knew they were not out of the woods yet, but they allowed themselves to believe that what they saw ahead was at least a faint track leading to a kind of promising clearing." So many caveats in a single sentence.PairsThere is an unsettling sense of oscillation, uncertainty, precarious balance, because this is a book of pairs: twins and opposites, of people and situations – even pairs of pairs (Ike and Bobby Guthrie, the young brothers; Raymond and Harold McPheron, the old ones).
Una storia piana come la pianura che circonda Holt, la cittadina dove tutto succede.O meglio, sono storie semplici, perché sono più di una: una per ogni personaggio, una decina circa.E, forse, sono storie semplici solo in apparenza.
E solo con la compassione si penetra la solitudine.Winter Corn Fields, Andrew Wyeth, 1942 [Il mio ricordo corre a quel magnifico film di David Lynch, così inusuale per lui: The straight story, titolo in italiano Una storia vera.]In un’intervista data poco prima di morire Haruf disse:Voglio pensare di avere scritto quanto più vicino all’osso che potevo.
Nothing is overdone and yet what happens to the characters in this book is far from uneventful.
A pair of young brothers that have to learn to adjust without a mother in the home, a teenage girl pregnant and without a home, a father trying to raise his boys on his own, and a pair of staunch old bachelors who are presented with a somewhat extraordinary proposal - these all warmed my heart and I had a hard time detaching myself from their lives at story's end.
My heart ached at times for the young brothers, Bobby and Ike, as well as for the quietly dignified mother-to-be, Victoria.
Beautiful, a beautiful book. Thanks to all the good Goodreads friends who kept recommending this book to me.Especially the relationship and love between the gentle old farmer brothers Harold and Raymond McPheron and the young and pregnant Victoria, who they take into their home after her mother cast her out, is heartfelt. Wonderful writing, beautiful scenery... Great story. I like the description on the back cover: A novel of haunting beauty, Plainsong explores the grace and hope of every human life and mankind's infinite capacity for love.Like many before me, I say, Highly Recommended!
Not a perfect hero, Haruf casts Tom in a realistic light, but one from which heroism is seen plainly.Tom’s sons Ike and Bobby, ten and nine years old, feel the loss of their mother in the not-understanding way that children struggle with in a separation.
Haruf tells of the separation obliquely and lets the reader try to understand no doubt as real life participants also strive to make sense of relationships gone awry.Victoria Roubideaux, one of Tom’s students, is a seventeen year old who is pregnant and faces the difficulties of family and relationships with a quiet dignity of young mothers throughout history.
As a result of this personality trait, it follows that I don't like BIG CAPITAL LETTERS, loads!!!!!!!!
The words are serviceable and unadorned, much like the farm people who populate his story.
These simple words then reach into your heart, and march according to its beat.
They're all three dimensional people now, thanks to Haruf's subtle words.
Especially the McPheron brothers, two older men whose stoic, decent hearts are cracked open later in life, and who shine a warm light on every page they inhabit.The words, simple as they are, have power.
So while I often don't reach it - subtlety, that is - Haruf's writing is a lovely reminder to keep trying.
The stories displayed in this novel are simple and unadorned, both by the mundane events going on in the lives of these ordinary characters, and by the sober style of Haruf’s prose, which brings them to life.
Contentment is within our hands’ reach, if only we make an effort to feel it.This is the beauty of Haruf’s novels; this is the genius of his art, of his vision of the world.
Generosity, delicate and charming, abounds in parenthesis amidst the commonplace suffering described in the pages of this novel; an unorthodox family might be possible in the imaginary plains of Holt that might reach mythical grandeur and will preserve the essential values of life.
Faced with this crisis, Maggie thinks of the two elderly, never-married McPheron brothers with a relatively large house on a 2,000 acre cattle ranch.
Tom begins dating Maggie, while the boys suffer bullying from some much older boys and come face to face with mortality when they discover an elderly lady on their paper route dead one day.Haruf's supernal powers of description and observation give the novel a gentle timbre with a deep emotional subtext and Tempean evocations of nature.
I have had this book on my shelf since 2012, when I first started collecting books to read for an Around the USA challenge that I planned at that time to finish in a year.
Five years later I'm still working on it (I get easily distracted) but after discussing another novel by Kent Haruf on Reading Envy, I felt compelled to move this one up the list.The story moves between different characters, and the chapters are named after the characters being followed.
And by the end, I was completely emotionally invested in the characters, wanting them to find happiness.ETA: This sinks into you, and I ended up adding a star for the full five.
Haruf's language is so deceptively simple--there's probably not a word in the book beyond sixth grade reading level.
But with this simple language, he creates such beautiful, sad, lonely, human people.
I'm particularly in love with the McPheron brothers, two elderly bachelor farmer brothers (and they're the single largest reason I think Nance needs to read this book).Something else about the simplicity of the language--I can't recall a single time that Haruf directly stated what a character was feeling.
Rather, Haruf simply relates their actions and their words between one another, and the reader makes a much stronger tie to what the characters are feeling.
Beautiful, sad, human, and hopeful.
And Haruf knew exactly how to use words to show.The characters draw the reader in slowly until you start to really care for them and worry about what is going to happen to them.
This story portrays small town life in Colorado and although it has its share of unpleasant people the book concentrates on the ones who care and the ones who try to help others in need.
This is a book to read if you are ever despairing of human nature or if you need something restful between more action packed books.
Read it slowly and enjoy:)
Plainsong, a simple unadorned melody, is a perfect title for this book, Haruf's style being beautifully spare and yet powerfully moving.
This award winning book takes place in a small town on the high plains of Colorado and chronicles the lives of some of it's struggling residents namely a lonely school teacher and his young sons who've been abandoned by their depressed wife and mother, a forgotten inbound widow, a caretaker and her elderly father, two rough on the exterior old bachelor brothers , and an abandoned pregnant teenage girl.
A favorite Wailing Jenny's song " One Voice" would be a perfect soundtrack here.
A great song that goes from a single sweet clear A Capella voice to that of an all encompassing three part harmony.
Very endearing characters!! The writing was great, as well as the story. I’m going to have to watch the movie to se if it’s as good as the book. Fingers crossed!!!
This is an endearing story that is spun from the fabric of small town life in Holt, Colorado.
If this had been sappy in any way, I would have run for the hills, screaming.
Let me assure you, there is an utter dearth of sappiness here, just a lovely story that will make your heart grow two sizes bigger.
As an aside, once upon a time, copies were made with mimeograph machines.
There was a brief mention of those old ditto machines and it brought back happy memories of lifting those pieces of paper handed out by the teacher and inhaling deeply.
Great story!!! Great characters!!! Great writing!!!!
I fall for his characters and within a few pages I am invested in the story that is unfolding in through his words.
The "adults" had some tarnish on them, were a bit rough about the edges due life lived, but their hearts and kindness came through.
These characters have their own problems, yet as their lives intertwine in unexpected ways they form almost a family bond.
Haruf does not write to everyone's taste.
There is a beautiful story that makes you look around and appreciate the small things that come into your life.
One of my all time favorite books...beautifully written and spare...my favorite kind of novel. It rang so true to my Eastern Colorado roots. I felt that I personally recognized some of the characters in the story.
This is the book that sneaks up on you...I didn't realize how invested I was in the characters and their stories, until the author dangles their safety and lives in front of me and I find myself reading in a frenzy to ensure that everything is ok.
From Victoria- the girl you want to stand up for herself, to Ike & Bobby the brothers who have seen much more than they can understand, and still protray the innocence of living in a small town.
It felt like a story I had read before, yet couldn't quite put my finger on which one it was...
In Plainsong Kent Haruf tells a dam good yarn with true-to-life characters and their everyday strugg
I've never read anything like this before. Extraordinary. Loved it.
4,5. Me ha encantado. Es una novela de personajes, de cómo unos se van cruzando en la vida de otros, de su día a día, pero Kent Haruf consigue que los adores. He sentido debilidad por los niños, Ike y Bobby y por la chica adolescente, Victoria. Pero el resto de personajes también me ha conquistado. No creo que pudiera decir mucho más porque solo se me ocurre decir: leedlo y veréis cómo disfrutáis de Kent Haruf.Para mí ha sido uno de los descubrimientos de este año. Deseando que traduzcan el resto de sus novelas.
A graceful, quiet yet powerful book. It is a study of small town life, told through several characters in alternating chapters. There is nothing new here -- just everyday lives with the usual problems. Some people have more good than bad in them, some have more bad than good, and a lot of people just don't know how to balance any of that. The crusty old bachelor brother farmers in particular were wonderful characters.Haruf has an extraordinary ability to create characters that speak directly from the pages. Not schmaltzy. Just lovely. Pure storywriting.
Even without the medals hanging from their necks, the nominees would stick out: New authors appear in ill-advised outfits, like red Nehru jackets or brocade gowns inspired by "King Lear," choices probably pushed on these quiet, pensive writers by family members who insist they live it up for once.
Two years ago, they took in Victoria when her mother threw her out for getting pregnant, and though the four of them made a strange and awkward family, the old men can't imagine life without her now.In town, 17 miles away from the McPheron ranch, Luther and Betty Wallace struggle to negotiate the complexities of food stamps and utility bills, child rearing and medical care.
Perchè se ci ripenso, ogni volta che si incontra la prateria in un libro (non importa se in compagnia di Philip Roth o di Cormac McCarthy piuttosto che di Alice Munro o di Stephen King - no, Steinbeck non vale, perchè lui è scrittore dell'umanità intera e non americano), sempre ci troviamo nascosto sotto qualcosa di inquietante e minaccioso, di pervertito ed inconfessabile, quasi come se mostrare il marcio sotto il tappeto sia una sorta di compiacimento della letteratura del nuovo mondo.
Pure questa contemplazione consapevole ma sicura del male dentro ciascuno di noi, questa prosa scarna e tutta cose che comunque riesce a dire tutto, questo eroismo fatto di avvenimenti quotidiani rendono davvero molto piacevole la visita a Holt, Colorado.Sono davvero contento che Haruf abbia scritto una trilogia.
I mention the lack of church life because it's my experience that it's usually an important part of small town life.I listened to this book once before.
Here's a review from the 2013 PageADay Book Lover's Calendar:Set in a small community on the plains of Colorado, this novel tells the interwoven stories of several beautifully delineated characters.
Chief among them is Tom, a high school history teacher whose wife has recently abandoned him and their two boys, and Victoria, a teenage girl who’s thrown out of her home when it’s discovered that she’s pregnant.
This is a quietly beautiful book.
I think most Americans -- and maybe others -- are suckers for well-told tales of small town life, even though small towns, and their virtues and vices, are quickly disappearing.
This story has finely drawn characters and is centered on the life a high school teacher who is raising his two boys pretty much single handedly as his wife sinks into depression.
But the hopeful thread of the story lives in the tale of a young woman who becomes pregnant and must seek help to avoid spiraling into rejection and poverty.
Victoria, a 17 year-old high school senior, is thrown out of her house by her crude and bitter mother after she had learned that her daughter is pregnant.
The McPheron Brothers are two bachelors brothers who live out on their farm and who have little communication with the community.For me Plainsong was an enjoyable an easy read and I loved the characters and the atmosphere of the novel.
The fact that two elderly bachelors would take in a pregnant 17 year old girl was a little bit farfetched for me.This novel is certainly worth reading, there are no major plot twists and no real surprises however the writing is so beautiful and certainly worthy of the praise that this book has received.
remains one of my favorites of Kent Haruf
Maravilloso. Haré vídeo sobre Kent Haruf porque ha sido todo un descubrimiento 🖤
