https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8008214-the-undefeated
the author's credit lies in the excellent description of bullfighting furnished.
however, paradoxically, in my perception, Manuel (the central protagonist) hardly qualified for the designation of a hero, his pluck notwithstanding.
bullfighting is an extremely gruesome and inhuman sport to say the least.
is that sports???!!!
i personally thought that the real hero of the story was the bull.
there was fight left in this brave beast right till the end.
that's what the mettle of a hero ought to signify....to see a fight right through to the end.
Fantastic story. As some of the other reviewers have pointed out, yes bullfighting is a brutal sport and the young man isn’t exactly a hero, but neither of those observations get at the point of this story. This is a great example of Hemingway’s brutal and direct tone expressed through a story about struggle for all parties involved. It’s harsh and sad, but it says somethings about life. It’s the ugliness of it all that makes it so beautiful and compelling.
Having recently seen a corrida in Madrid, I'd say Hemingway's description of this somewhat ritual sport was quite faithful to what I witnessed. I feel that's all there is to this story though, I was thoroughly unimpressed.
Never really knew before how cruel bullfighting is!!
Bu kitapta sadece bir öykü değil aynı zamanda "boğa güreşleri" hakkında birçok terime rastlayacaksınız. Açıkçası kitapta her İspanyolca/Latin terimde birer dipnot kullanılması okuyucu açısından sıkıntı yaratabiliyor. Öykü ise gayet açık ve akıcı bir dile sahip. Hemingway'ın bu kitabı favorilerimin arasına girdi.
Heart pounding, but very predictable. I must be fair, however. Perhaps at the time of writing the story, this kind of ending was not as cliched, or as predictable as it is nowadays.
تقييم الجود ريدز: 1 من 5 نجومتقييم البيض : 5 من 5 بيضاتبكيت ملء عيني بسبب حزني على بطل القصة مصارع الثيران الطيب النبيل البرئ الذي تعرض إلى إصابة من الثور المتوحش الهمجي..كيف يقوم هذا الحيوان بإصابة و قتل البشر و هم الذين يعتبرون اللعب معه رياضة؟كيف يقوم هذا الكائن الغبي برد الحب الجارف الذي يمنحه له الجماهير الإسبانية العريضة بان يقوم بقتل مصارع الثيران الذي يقف أمامه بكل وداعة؟!هيمنجواي.. انت عظيم!
The text felt very real. I have watched a few bull fights just to see what's up on youtube, which made me feel disgusting. This short story made me feel the same. Still, it's well written, but I have issues with the content on a moral level, I guess.
