https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672061.The_Rising_Tide_of_Color_Against_White_World_Supremacy
Mr. Stoddard did a good job predicting how the "rising tide of color" would overpower "white world-supremacy." Of course, it took the Europeans destroying each other (funded by certain international bankers) for the color world to not only gain power and sovereignty (to an extent), but to flood the European nations in the rising tide of anti-kultur (or what some call multi-"culturalism") internationalism.
I guess survival of the fittest doesn't really work out when its a match between Nordic vs.
Nordic.
Stoddard also discusses how basically every European nation east of Germany has a good percentage of Asiatic blood.
Needless to say, I cannot include all of that material into a single book review, but a decent summary I can do.Stoddard's thesis, is simply put, that the humongous populations outside of the white world (Asia, Africa, Central and South America) are going to swamp the white race in its domains, not by force of arms, but by enormous birth rates and capitalist greed for cheap labor.
Nowadays though, current population predictions suggest that Africa is headed for a multi-billion person population explosion, that will likely lead to wars and chaos if the resulting excess of young African males cannot be employed or sent off to die somewhere.What surprised me was the enormous contempt that Asiatics (Chinese and Japanese) had for white people, and vice versa.
It's important to read this racist book.... the iconography and symbolism still exist today embedded in our media.-A
This book was not quite what I expected.Stoddard’s work, alongside that of Madison Grant, is frequently cited as planting the banner of Scientific Racism in the United States. Consequently, the tone of the book quite surprised me.RacismTo what extent was Stoddard a racist?To answer this question we need that seldom-found thing, a definition of racism that withstands more than momentary scrutiny. Thomas Sowell provides a useful one:‘ “Racism” is a term not only used very loosely by many, but also
Consequently, the tone of the book quite surprised me.RacismTo what extent was Stoddard a racist?To answer this question we need that seldom-found thing, a definition of racism that withstands more than momentary scrutiny.
The consequence is a portentous increase of population in nearly every portion of the colored world now under white political sway.
The answer is: into those emptier regions of the earth under white political control.’Presumably Stoddard feels this to be a Bad Thing (otherwise why write the book?), but unless I’ve missed it, he doesn’t actually say so.
I knew this book would be racist, but I didn't know it would also be so boring. I can handle the racism (it's useful to know the "arguments" advocating white-supremacy in order to debunk them) but I've got more interesting and relevant things to read.
This book inspire me that Indonesia has opportunity to be a big country if it has audacity against US hegemony
This book caught my attention during my research on affirmative action and the concept of "model minorities." I find it intriguing that the author definitely harbored white-supremacy leanings, yet was against caucasians interfering or supressing nations of color. Also, I've heard he made some startingly correct predictions on how certain ethnic groups would progress.
If you want to understand the underpinnings of early 20th century fascism and eugenics then start with this book.
A clear understanding of history and modern events is helpful.
Every person of color should read this book.
You can clearly see the geneaology of modern fascist rhetoric and gain insight into the mythos these nationalist factions construct to indoctrinate themselves and others.
With the rising tide of white nationalism in Europe, and the Americas, as well as nationalist movements in Asia, it would be prudent for the democratic liberal to get an idea of what he/she faces.
Occasionally he talks sense. His racialism looks to me about as accurate or helpful as Marxism in terms of understanding history. He seems to have understood (and predicted) the Japanese program fairly well. On the other hand, his theory that the Arab world would use Islam to convert Africans into shock troops for a coming civilizational war with the West seems quite bizarre, the short career of Umar Farouk Abdulmutallub notwithstanding.
If your serious about learning how racism white supremacy works read this book.
