https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/495893.Underground_to_Canada
It shocked me back then and it's still just as horrific today.
Still, this book is a good introduction to younger readers to teach them about slavery and civil rights in a way that isn't too graphic but still doesn't sugarcoat the reality of the situation.
It's a powerful classic and a reminder to all readers to appreciate the freedom of today and the people who took a stand for it and ran away to find not just freedom, but also hope, belonging and respect.
Historically accurate and great introduction to key members of the Abolitionist movement active in Julilly's journey to freedom.
During the gruelling journey, the escaped slaves also meet the 'President' of the Underground Railroad by which they're travelling.
Excellent descriptions of the slaves' life hiding in caves, locating 'depots', meeting unknown supporters, on the 'railroad' to their future.
In the words of the Abolitionist that set Julilly on her run to freedom, Alexander Ross, "Injustice is the weapon of evil men.
In Underground to Canada (1977), winner of the Canada Council Children's Literature Prize, the story of escaping black slaves...
Barbara Smucker was a white woman. I feel that should be stated outright. While Smucker, I'm sure, had good intentions, these intentions were... woefully misguided. Underground to Canada  is a horrendously white-washed narrative of slavery about kind whites who help runaway slaves get to benevolent Canada, while presenting slavery to be some kind of marginally cruel bootcamp. That this novel is still widely circulated throughout the Canadian school system as the basis for education about black h
I understand the rhetoric that the realities of slavery may be "too much" for young readers, but I have white cousins who, to this day, have a picture of black slavery in their heads almost entirely informed by this novel, a narrative that centers around a prevalence of benevolent slave-owners and mostly white heroes and a misplaced Canadian national pride.
If you're going to teach children about slavery, I think its important that their first experiences with the subject be more representative of what slavery actually was, focus more on slavery itself rather than the white-aided escape narrative, and, perhaps most importantly, be actually written by a black person.

Read this book at school when I was about 13.
I vaguely remember it but it seemed to go on forever back then.
Its always remained with me though.
Now my husband is a West African and so slavery is part of his and our sons heritage.
I read it in one evening.
An amazing book I couldn't put down.
Brought the conditions of these slaves to life...
Its a shame this book isn't more well known (the library copy I read had been checked out 3 times since 1999) and Im not going to hesitate recommending it to anyone and everyone
So good! Maintenant c’est le tour de les enfants pour ne pas rater un livre si instructif
She only knows a few small children, Lester, Adam, and Ben, but soon Julily meets a girl named Liza and they become good friends.
Then Massa Ross comes and offers Julily, Liza, Ben, Lester, and Adam, help to get freedom, and they agree....
Lester and Adam get captured and taken back to the plantation, but Julily and Liza still continue their journey to Canada.
In the end of the book Julily and Liza find out that Lester makes it to Canada, but Adam died.
The one thing I didn't like about this book was when the slave hunters always knew where Julily and Liza went!
This book is about a slave named Julily that lived at a place called the Massa Henson plantation but was bought and took to the Riley plantation away from her mother Mamy Sally.
Julily and Liza were in the barn while Adam and Lester went out to fish but then the slave catchers found them but didn't find Julily and Liza who ran away when Adam and Lester got caught.
But my favourite part in this book is when Liza and Julily went up to the farm with all those people who fed them washed there clothes and gave them food and let them sleep there.
Julilly gets taken away from the Henson Plantation where Mammy Sally lives.
Julilly gets taken away to the Riley Plantation where she meets her friend Liza.
But one day Alexander Ross comes in to examine the slaves but really he is an aboolitionist and he helps Lester, Adam, Liza and Julilly escape to Canada.
The thing i didn't like about the book is that every time they end up at a house or every time they find shelter there is always a person coming to look for them!
Necessary use of the N-word throughout for full impact, but just a warning if you intend to read it to young children.
Yes, the slave traders and some of the owners are portrayed as evil, but it is more because they are ignorant, misguided and uninformed.
People from a different time living lives which seemed normal to them.
Just as we are misguided and uninformed today about other issues we regard as normal.
Thinking that seems normal to us now most likely will someday be viewed as ignorant and archaic.Situations may change, but the lesson from this book never seems to be learned.
Read Aloud 12 yrs + Independent Reader - See Parental Warning Worldview - Universally AcceptableSetting:Location - Southern United States, St. Catherines, Canada Time Period - Around 1800Note: This book was also issued under the title Run Away to Freedom.Review Sold to a slave trader from the deep south twelve-year-old Julilly and is taken away from her mother and the only home she has ever known. Fearful of the rumors she has heard of the deep south and the horrors that await for her there, she
Read Aloud 12 yrs + Independent Reader - See Parental Warning Worldview - Universally AcceptableSetting:Location - Southern United States, St. Catherines, Canada	Time Period - Around 1800Note: This book was also issued under the title Run Away to Freedom.Review	Sold to a slave trader from the deep south twelve-year-old Julilly and is taken away from her mother and the only home she has ever known.
As an adult these things do seem slightly less than believable, however for the intended audience it does create a more pleasant read, allowing the student to understand the larger issues of slavery rather than becoming bogged down in depressing details that are better left for a later age.Teacher Application A wonderful story to introduce students to Canada’s roll in the underground railroad and the freeing of the slaves.
I liked the subject it was about and how it was told (without hiding, the harsh life the slaves were dealing with, the whipping, etc.) I gave three starts because overall, it's a good book, but for a high school student, the writing style was just too childish which caused me to have to reread certain parts and some passages were just too cliché. Other than that, I enjoyed the plot, the characters and the message this book had to offer.
A book the is similar to Underground Railroad, which is popular at the moment and on Oprah's list. A bit less rape-ie than Underground, but just a terrifying. It is hard to understand why everyone talks of the concentration camps of WWII and not the camps that existed for hundreds of years in America. Not surprising that it glosses over the starvation that was Canada for African Americans who fled there, but I guess it is a children's book. . .
i want to read it
Such an important, brilliant, powerful book.
Rating: 3 starsOk so, I read this book with my English class and I think that's the reason I didn't like or maybe it's the writing style i can't tell.My English class took three months to read this book, THREE MONTHS TO READ A BOOK THAT WAS NOT EVEN 150 PAGES.
It kept making me english class laugh because our teacher would read out those words and it made me EXTREMELY angry.Anyways i know this isn't much of a review but I just had to explain why I rated it quite low.
I'm torn about this book: from a reader's perspective, the story really didn't grab me right away; from a historical/teaching perspective, it offers an accessible narrative on an important part of Can-Am history. The story felt simplified, but perhaps that has more to do with reading context. I loved the extra bits at the end of this edition that offered insight on the author's life and work, as well as the real-life characters she included and further reading suggestions.
I wanted to reread this book that I first read in my early teens as a required school reading. It’s clearly a junior book and as such it is worthy of 5 stars. I gave it 4 because MY rating is based on my enjoyment of it. That said, it was a good introduction to the idea of the Underground Railroad for slaves to escape to Canada. I enjoyed the novel. Quick and easy. Could be read by age 10, however it uses the n-word so would need to be discussed with the children prior to reading it.
goooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooodbooooook9 :) :) :) :):) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :):) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) :) it is a fucking good book
It was for a school project that we had to read this book and I am pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed reading this because I often find that I dislike the class novels we have to read.But I highly recommend this book to people who are interested in the slaves and slaves escaping to Canada
This is a book from my childhood and as I was reading The Underground Railroad, I thought I should revisit it. The story is interesting but I found it quite simplistic in parts. I think that YA books haves moved on since 1977.
A fast read and entertaining read with a bit of learning that Canada did have an underground railroad too.
We read this book as a grade 8 history class. We wrote chapter summaries for each chapter and we will be writing an essay.
Brutal which is what slavery was so it's only fair to write about it as honestly as possible.
Great, read it at school, overall very good, interpretation of black history.
I honestly do not like books that take place in the past, but I loved this authors style of writing.
Loved this book. Such a terrible part of history. The characters steal your heart from the 1st couple of pages.
I recognize that the author was trying to write a book for children about a difficult topic, but when you are telling other peoples' stories, you'd better do your darn research and think a while.
I think the book kept me "on my toes" in suspense wanting to know more. When Julilly & Mammy Sally got separated, I felt horrible for Julilly because she'd essentially have nobody. But when she met Liza, everything changed because she had somebody to get through every day with. In chapter 17 when Adam stayed in St Catharines for one day, then sadly passed, it broke my heart. I was so upset that he had died, but somewhat happy for him because he at least got to experience freedom before he died.
One day a man named Alexander Ross comes to the Plantation and pretends to be looking for slaves, he takes Adam and Lester with him to help him look.
In the end they did make it to Canada and were taken to a little town called ST.Catherine, they went there to find Lester who had escaped with Adam but Adam sadly died from blood poisoning.
In the end they all lived in a nice house.I would very much recommend this book :)The best part about this book is when Julilly and Liza finally make it to Canada after all they went through.
