https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/435236.My_Enemy_the_Queen
The court of Elizabeth I from another viewpoint. Interesting read, I was fascinated to learn more about Lettice Knowles. From previous books I have read about the period, I had heard Lettice's name occasionally, and knew there was some speculation about whether or not Henry VIII fathered her mother during his affair with Mary Boleyn. We'll never know. All in all an enjoyable read - not the greatest in the historical fiction genre, but worthwhile to learn more about the secondary players in the times of Elizabeth I.
Just arrived from Finland through BM. The first part of this book was just about the love affair between Lettice, Elizabeth I and Earl of Leicester, nothing else. After Leicester's death then the plot became quite interesting with the characters of Earl of Essex, Francis Bacon and Raleigh.
Una novela que trata sobre la vida de Lettice Knoyles, quien fue prima lejana de Elizabeth I, la "Reina Virgen", cuyas vidas estuvieron entrelazadas por dos hombres: Robert Duddley Conde de Leicester y Robert Devereux, Conde de Essex.La novela está escrita por Eleanor Alice Burford quien escribió muchos dramas de corte histórico,romandico,góticos bajo varios seudónimos: como Phillipa Carr novelas románticas, de corte gótico y de misterio, como Jean Plaidy escribió la mayoría de sus dramas históricos basados en los personajes de la corona inglesa o francesa.
Lettice Devereaux tells the tragic story of Elizabeth I and her love for two men - the Earl of Leicester and the Earl of Essex.
A vain woman who prides herself in her beauty, she falls in love with the queen's favorite, the Earl of Leicester, a womanizing and most ambitious man.
Lettice plots to ensnare the Earl and finally marries him in spite of his colorful reputation and the queen's love.
For this, the queen abolishes her from court while keeping the Earl by her side.
As the Earl ages, he decides to bring Lettice's son, the Earl of Essex, to court.
I read this back in grade school when I was first getting into historical fiction. Jean Plaidy/Victoria Holt was one of the first authors I read because my mother had lots of her books. I enjoyed this one immensely when I read it, but later Plaidy reads haven't been nearly as exciting. IMO Plaidy is a great author to learn about a time period or historical figures, but one you know the history the prose gets kinda dull as it tends to read like lightly-dramatized biography.
Slow going, unfortunately. Lettice is neither likable nor entertainingly bitchy. Hoping things will pick up.Update: finally picked this one up and finished it. On the whole, I liked it, but I never really warmed to Lettice, especially in her behavior to Robert Dudley. This did whet my appetite for reading Margaret George's new novel about Elizabeth, though.
"The Other Boleyn Girl" should be this good. Victoria Holt could tell a story and make it fascinating with nary a ripped bodice in sight. I didn't believe Lettice Knollys actually existed until I came across a reference to her in a scholarly work. She was the granddaughter of Henry VIII and Mary Boleyn, the second wife of the Earl of Leicester and the mother of the Earl of Essex. If you can find this book, read it.
This is my favorite historical novel ever! I had just recently traveled through England, and Holt talks about all the amazing places that I had just seen the ruins of. It is a must to anyone who has traveled through London and the surrounding countryside. I had read so many different accounts of the Earl of Leichester and the Queen, and this was absolutely the most engrossing.
I read so many Victoria Holt books that I don't remember much about them individually. But this one did stick with me. It was a great read and I really enjoy historical fiction especially about the old royal families.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
Loved it! So detailed, and she tells the history beautifully and describes Queen Elizabeth in a way few writers do.
I've probably read this book at least 10 times--and I love it every time I read it.
It is well known that Robert Dudley and Elizabeth I had an intense love affair that last decades.
Lettice, Elizabeth's cousin and Robert's second wife.I don't think Lettice is an easy character, nor is she that likable, especially when she has a tendency to want to gloat to Elizabeth....which is always such a dangerous move given her temperament towards people who 'threaten' to take away from those she loves.
The book definitely provides another view of what life may have been like in Elizabeth's court, especially from someone who is so close and interacted with a variety of well known historical characters.
My Enemy of the Queen examines the rivalry between Queen Elizabeth I and her Boleyn cousin Lettice Knollys as they were both attracted to Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester.
None of the major characters are especially likable - Robert Dudley is portrayed as charismatic but dangerous, Elizabeth I is vain and self centered and Lettice is impulsive and governed by her passions.
The novel is nevertheless a page turner as especially enjoyable for readers who have also read Margaret George's recent novel about Elizabeth and Lettice.
It's the story of Lettice Knollys, Queen Elizabeth I's cousin (on the Boleyn side) and the mother of the Earl of Essex.
Lettice incurred Elizabeth's wrath by marrying her favorite man without permission, Robert Dudley.
The book is super repetitive regarding the love triangle, and Lettice's character repeats over and over that she has a certain nature (imo it's an old-fashioned way to say she likes sex) and can't help herself.
Also, the book is told from Lettice's POV so most of the events after she marries Robert are told at a distance, since she was sent away from court at that time.
Quite tedious and what has kept me reading was to know the other side of story behind the scenes and the humane approach of the greatest monarch in English history ever. You can not win it all, or win all the time. She has ruled during time of turbulence. As for Lettice, she has outlived all and had the time to reflect on her life. The changes in the political system came sooner than anticipated and was tasseled by what Henry VIII has done. If Ann Boleyn was hailed as a reformer, what could Elizabeth be??
One of my favourite books set in the Victorian England. It's even more interesting because it's one of the very rare books which is written from a woman's POV. In that age and era, it's rare to get a glimpse of the lives of women since they were treated as less than second-class citizens even when the country was ruled by a powerful Queen. Any history buff would love it and the sizzling love-triangle is a bonus.
My Enemy The Queen was the first book that was given me by my mom to read in earlier print. This book is what started my passion for reading regency, Georgian, historical romances. I enjoyed reading it then and the recap some time ago. Good book to read.
Una novela apasionante de principio a fin. Me ha encantado. Tenéis mi reseña completa aquíhttp://palabrasquehablandehistoria.bl...
I think Holt did a lot of research, because there was a lot of politics and court intrigue that was accurate, and several primary sources that were cited in the book as something someone wrote, or published, or were quoted at section breaks.Holt took this well-researched framework and imagines the characters of the historical figures on top of that, and that is where it definitely went awry for me.
But apparently if your legs are super symmetrical, you don't need garters!
UGH!!!!I hated this book.I hated these characters. I am glad everyone is dead now. I feel so icky now, and jittery and slightly depressed. Why did I do this to myself? What we have here is an account from Lettice, Countess of Leicester on her life serving the queen, falling in love with the Queen's favorite beau and their strange three legged relationship that followed. I don't know who I hated more, vain and evil Queen Elizabeth or vain, evil, and selfish Lettice.  OR vain and evil Leicester,
I don't know who I hated more, vain and evil Queen Elizabeth or vain, evil, and selfish Lettice.
I just don't understand why any grown, successful adult would want to suck on the queen's big toe like a child.
It just made me feel awful, to think that people really lived in those sad situations and were so completely ruled by someone else.
The main reason I think I hated this story was because Lettice was unbelievably stupid in her assumption that she "stole" Leicester from the Queen.
Lettice never saw it that way and it drove me crazy that she was so blind.Anyway, I feel like I've ranted enough.
Most people familiar with the Tudors will know that Elizabeth was in love with Robert Dudley, earl of Leicester, her whole life and died with his last letter close.
In the background of the main story of romance, jealousy, ambition and fruitless seduction are the politics of Elizabeth's reign unto nearly her death, a couple of years after she had to order the execution of Robert Dudley's son, a favorite who she adored like something between son and lover."My Enemy, the Queen" is thrilling and suspenseful in a way no other Tudor novel is.
I haven't read this since I was about thirteen, but remember it fondly as a really engaging if slightly overblown story of Robert Dudley's second wife.
Lettice Knollys was the cousin of Elizabeth I, and was one of her ladies in waiting right up until she secretly married Robert Dudley, at which point she was banished from court.
The whole story is told from the point of view of Lettice and charts the feud that was sparked by this marriage between herself and her cousin, the Queen.
This does stick pretty closely to the facts, even if it assumes attitudes and reasons behind many of the actual events.
I had my own struggle to finish this book , I listened to it as an audio book through bus trips on my trip to Korea.
I slept in many parts of the story but I didn't miss much because the events were at least once mentioned again and again by Lattice.
Many of the characters were shown in a boring and superficial way since it seems that Lattice consider physical appearance as a way to judge people.
I hated all men in the story maybe because they were explained by Lattice point of view.
All in all one of the books I don't quitely regret listening to it on my bus rides.
I just finished Elizabeth I by Margaret George and had been disappointed in it.
Since it started when Elizabeth was 57, I wanted to know more about her earlier life.
This book was mentioned in the back by Ms. George.
I happen to have it on my bookshelf, but had never read it, so I thought I would try it now.
I really enjoyed it.
It filled in a lot of gaps and I felt I knew the characters a lot better.
(I should probably now go back and reread the novel by Margaret George, but that isn't going to happen!)
This one is amazing. Honestly, i don't like history but when I encountered this wonderful book of victoria holt, I can't help but read it, and re-read. The story was fantastic and the use of first person point of view to make it more entertaining. In some sense, ,lives of women during the elizabeth era, I say was not given much importance. I never encountered situations in the book that reveals the prerogative of women to holt high office (exception of course, the queen) and to serve during warfare. I say, in my opinion, it was a form of oppresion.
Told in the 1st person with so much feeling and verisimilitude, I kept forgetting it was a novel I was reading, not actual history although it was well-researched and historically correct. Queen Elizabeth loved two men: the Earl of Leicester and later the Earl of Essex. Leicester married Lettice, a Bolyn cousin of the Queen; it is her story. She was also the mother by a previous marriage of the boy who became Earl of Essex. This love triange with Elizabeth, Lettice and the men they loved is the theme of the book.
This was the very first novel that I read by Victoria Holt.
After reading this book, she instantly became one of my all-time favorite authors.
This book certainly did not disappoint.
I loved the fact that it was a historical novel that covered the life of Elizabeth I.
It is a captivating novel that follows the life of Elizabeth I from her childhood to her death.
The story is told from the point of view of Lettice, a cousin of the Queen.
It is fascinating to read about their relationship which included a love triangle.
I loved this book which included scandal, speculation, and history!
So this book started off pretty good a little slow but I hate the fact that author gives away bg things before they happen so you know whaen someone is going to die (for instance)so then you know whats going to happen next which doesnt exactly keep you sitting on the edge of your seat. I got down to the last like 50 pages and stoped reading it beacuse i knew how it was going to end. So over all - disappointed.
I'm between liking it and really liking it. Victoria Holt is a wonderful story teller, but I found this one to be a bit lacking I think because as opposed to being fully fictional it was historical fiction. I found the main character, Lettice, to be quite repetitive, but she was obsessed with the Queen her entire life so Holt was just telling a story of what happened.
