https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27239265-the-short-drop
5 excellent stars is putting this debut in my top 5 for the year!Thank you Netgalley and Matthew FitzSimmons for a copy in exchange for a fair and honest review.To say I was blown away by this book would be an understatement.
To say I was in awe that it was a debut would also be an understatement.
Bravo Matthew FitzSimmons and keep up the excellent work!
I honestly can't say enough good things about this book.
I received a free copy from Netgalley but will be purchasing a copy for my collection, it was THAT good.
The Short Drop is a tense, suspenseful novel which will keep the reader riveted to every page.
A senator’s daughter Suzanne Lombard disappears at the age of 14, but it will be some ten years before a secretive team takes action to find out exactly what happened.
Maintaining close tabs on him for several days, the elite team watch Vaughn sitting alone in a diner and are finally given the go ahead to approach him with an offer he can’t refuse.
The Short Drop has earned a well deserved spot on Goodreads ‘Best Books of the Month’ and is highly, highly, recommended.
I have - and I won.It took almost 2 years...and all I was trying to say was the DMV made mistake.
I was told every story in the book of how it was impossible to change the records at DMV...(even for an innocent party).
So, it was realistic to me that people of power- corruption in the name of Politics, could manage to keep a secret under wraps for 10 years.
Often that enemy just may turn out to be a hero, as in the case in this story with a top notch computer hacker, Gibson Vaughn.
The short drop sounds innocuous enough, doesn't it?
Trust me, you do not want to have anything to do with it.
The thing, I mean - not the book.
The book is swell.
New life is breathed into a cold case as the ten year anniversary of the disappearance of Suzanne Lombard rolls around.
There are lies masquerading as truths, with a bit of politics thrown in for good measure.
As in true life, time is the great equalizer.
Money can't stop it, power can't squelch it.
She is never heard from again and it is believed to be a kidnapping gone bad.Gibson Vaughn never got over losing his 'Bear'-the nickname he gave her when they were young and growing up together.
So many bad guys out there trying to stop this team from getting to the truth, but who is the kingpin that hired the bad guys-what do they have to lose if the truth comes out?There are many layers to this story along with several subplots, but the author executes them perfectly, both in suspense and in timing.
There is nothing NOT to like about this book!
The Short Drop by Matthew FitzSimmons has to be one of the best debut mystery/thrillers I have read in a very long time.
I found it very difficult to put this story down to go to work!The book starts on the ten year anniversary of the disappearance of at the time Senator Lombard’s daughter.
When a picture of Suzanne’s backpack appears, it sets into motion all the moving pieces of this plot into several explosive revelations and dead bodies.The characters in this story are all extremely well developed, good and bad.
Although he passed away about 18 months ago, I still think of him when I read a great thriller, and wish he was around so I can pass on some more recommendations.Boy, he would have loved Matthew FitzSimmons' 
Suzanne wasn't just any runaway, however—at the time of her disappearance, her father was a U.S. senator, and his political star rose as his family grieved for their missing daughter.Gibson Vaughn was the son of Benjamin Lombard's trusted chief of staff, and he was in essence an older brother to Suzanne.
4+ This is the book I didn't want to put down.
It is also an amazing début novel.
Just loved the character of Gibson Vaughn, his history, his relationship with Bear and his mixed feelings over the suicide of his father.
Powerful men, men with connections, a woman who is dogged in the pursuit of once again regaining the status her family one held.
Non stop action, never knowing who was trustworthy, who is lying, wanting to know the real story, is what keeps you reading, turning the pages.
Secrets, lies, conspiracies, the denouement a total surprise.
The getting there a total pleasure.Can't wait to read what this author writes next.

THE SHORT DROP by Matthew FitzSimmons is one of the best Debut Crime Thriller of 2015 that I have read.
I have to say that I am not normally drawn to political thrillers, but given the praise this book was receiving, I decided to leave my comfort zone of reading mystery suspense crime psychological thrillers, and branch out a bit.
As a BSA, I myself use excel all the time.Gibson Vaughn a computer hacker, an ex-marine, working out of Virginia is trying to locate his childhood friend, Suzanne Lombard (he called her “bear”) the daughter of the American vice president.
When a Goodreads friend wrote an enthusiastic review for this book, it looked like a winner to me, so I hurriedly purchased it.
My friend was right and it was!!
He carries a burden, but is presented a way to unload and clear up the mystery.I really liked how the story flowed so smoothly.
Some authors write like they're sitting with you and telling the story.
This story had me from Page 1 and never let go.I had no idea what a "short drop" was until nearly the end of this book, and I'm not likely to forget it now.
When a young mans best friend goes missing and shortly thereafter his father commits suicide, he gives up on any kind of write or wrong in his life.
Unfortunately this, couldn't care less, attitude ends him up in jail for a serious hacking charge.
The judge gives him a choice jail or the Marines.
Shortly after he is released from service, he is approached by a team of political shakers that need his help to sort out the mystery behind his best friends disappearance.
Maybe now he can get some answers that have been plaguing him for most of his life.
It is truly so good and exciting and surprising and breathtaking!
I'm usually good at guessing the twists and secrets but this book really did a number on me.
It was also a very fast read, and I didn't want to put it down, I needed to know more about the characters and what was going to happen to them.One of the things about The Short Drop that surprised me the most was how all the events narrated made sense and, scary as it is, could happen in real life.
I was pleasantly surprised at how much I enjoyed reading this debut by Matthew Fitzsimmons. I will definitely be reading the sequel!
The Short Drop was highly suspenseful, fast paced and filled with political intrigue!Matthew FitzSimmons in his debut novel has created an extremely likable but flawed character in Gibson Vaughn, a legendary hacker, who has now been struggling in life as a low level IT guy.
He now has a chance to rebuild his career when he is asked to join in the investigation of Suzanne Lombard, a girl who disappeared ten years ago.
Lombard, the daughter of a presidential hopeful, was a childhood friend of Vaughn, so the emotions run deep as he looks into her disappearance.
I am looking forward to his next book, Poisonfeather (Gibson Vaughn #2), due out later this year.
“So many lives bound together in the Gordian knot of one missing girl.”That about sums up the plot of Matthew FitzSimmons’ The Short Drop.
Suzanne Lombard, the fourteen-year-old daughter of Senator Benjamin Lombard disappears.
Gibson Vaughn is the son of the late advisor to Senator Lombard.
Gibson, who considered Suzanne to be like a younger sister, is recruited by the former head of Senator Lombard’s security to investigate the case.
Gibson Vaughn is ready, willing, and capable of lending his considerable technical skills to the investigation.
What else will he encounter?Gibson Vaughn is a divorced father of a young girl.
An entertaining read however it did take me quite awhile to actually get into this novel and I am not sure how much this was down to the plot development or the busy time of year I chose to read this book. I liked the plot and the characters so a solid 3 star read for me.
4.5 StarsCracking political thriller that manages to be clever, exciting, and emotional all at once. I would never have thought this was a debut, this is the work of a writer many years into their career. Thanks to my Goodreads friends for the recommendation on this one- you guys definitely got it right!
A special thank you to Thomas & mercer and NetGalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review.   Top 50 Books of 2015.  Best Debut Political Crime Techno Thriller of 2015. Matthew FitzSimmons delivers a rock-solid debut, THE SHORT DROP  — crossing many genres: a riveting action crime thriller--psycho, political, techno, and mystery, packed with suspense and wit, hooking you from the first page to the last; an intense page-turner!Based in Virginia, Gibson Vaughn  (loved his character) a co
Matthew FitzSimmons  delivers a rock-solid debut, THE SHORT DROP  — crossing many genres: a riveting action crime thriller--psycho, political, techno, and mystery, packed with suspense and wit, hooking you from the first page to the last; an intense page-turner!Based in Virginia, Gibson Vaughn  (loved his character) a computer hacker, is in search of his childhood friend, Suzanne Lombard--the daughter of the American vice president.
From twists, turns, revenge, and past crimes to the present, with sophisticated technology and plenty of Wow factor!I loved Gibson’s character, a father, and lover of his daughter and a supportive ex-wife.
Poisonfeather  (The Gibson Vaughn Series Book 2).
The Short Stop was well-written, action-packed, interesting, and had quite a few gripping characters.
I did have to go back and read a few chapters again, near the beginning of the book as I missed some info the first time around.
Some of the twists were a little predictable for me but the end reveal was not!Looking forward to reading the next book as there were some unanswered questions that I need answered and I definitely need to visit these characters again.
The Short Drop, very clever title thought it was perfect.
It was an impressive, fast-paced, quick and easy read with a satisfying ending.http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Still unsolved, the mystery remains a national obsession.For legendary hacker and marine Gibson Vaughn, the case is personal—Suzanne Lombard had been like a sister to him.On the tenth anniversary of her disappearance, the former head of Benjamin Lombard’s security asks for Gibson’s help in a covert investigation of the case, with new evidence in hand.Haunted by tragic memories, he jumps at the chance to uncover what happened all those years ago.
I have to say that the start of this book was a tad bit slow- almost to the point of me not even bothering- BUT, with all my pals here at GoodReads- I decided to just plow thru it and keep on reading.
What it needs is to be crisply edited for grammar, sentence structure, and mini-plots that go nowhere, and at times unnecessary characters.
And a few times I was confused enough to go back and re-read a few things.
Once again, thanks to all my reading pals here at GoodReads for pointing me in the direction of a new author and a new great series !!
I found this to be a well-written thriller, with lots of surprises and well-drawn characters. Suspense is maintained throughout the book and clearly, FitzSimmons is knowledgeable about cyber-hacking which is at the heart of the novel. A worthwhile read.
Thrillers do not feature frequently in my reading repertoire but when I get hold of a good one, it becomes literally unputdownable.
The tension, suspense and intrigue were tightly paced throughout the story with great characters complemented by a well-crafted and clever plot.
A man with a tumultuous past, Gibson also had a personal and close relationship with the missing person that only served to make the story even more engaging and the plot more involving.
I highly recommend this book, for fans of thrillers or just anyone who is looking for a riveting read.This review can also be found at Booknest
This was such an awesome read! It was quite slow in the beginning, but gives you just enough to keep you interested. Then the last half is just unputdownable. A few of the “mysteries” in the book are very easy to call, but the execution is just SO GOOD that I didn’t even care. The part I disliked was the political parts, but they are also done so well that they didn’t take away from my enjoyment of the book. Highly recommend this one!
It's that goodI'm often suspicious of books that receive a lot of 5-star reviews and no/few pans.
Who are all these reviewers?
Easily deluded customers?I'd been skipping the Kindle First selections because most had proven to be a waste of time.
Yes, free is nice, but my time is worth something, and many of those books weren't worth even the $0 price.Short Drop, conversely, is not only the best KF ever, it's one of the best thrillers I've read in a while.
Ex-marine Gibson Vaughn occupies a booth while searching for a way to support an ex-wife and six year old daughter.
A friend of his father and an insider in the political sphere, George Abe seeks Gibson’s computer skills to help track Suzanne’s abductor who, after almost a decade, has sent through evidence of involvement in the case.The pull of sentimentality yanks Gibson into the covert investigation.
Abe Consulting uncovers a long and complicated back-story before landing on the horrifying truth of what happened to Suzanne Lombard all those years ago.Tightly written and action packed, ‘The Short Drop’ is accessible without being patronising.
You’ll find some familiar crime drama character archetypes here: an ex-marine and expert hacker rolled into one do-gooder protagonist; a power-hungry politician who will do anything to keep his secrets safe; a hyper-masculine female badass; the token black dude who’s real tired of your shit.
There were quite a few unfinished storylines by the end, but I was ultimately satisfied with the bittersweet conclusion.
As someone who is frequently disappointed by lackluster endings, it was awesome to encounter such a cohesive story.
In many ways, this reads like an episode of a run-of-the-mill cop drama, but at the same time, there’s something special here.
This political thriller/mystery was well put together with characters that I could engage with. The plot wasn't a straight line and I enjoyed the twists and turns. The only fall down was when it turned to tech talk. My eyes were crossing with all the intricacies of computer function. Being a low tech person, those passages were way beyond me. Tech savvy readers probably appreciated it though. Overall a great debut. And I'll for sure be checking out book 2 in the series.
Had the makings of a real mystery but kind of felt incomplete at the endThe book was good in the beginning and the middle but when it was time to wrap everything up I didn't feel like all the loose ends were taken care of. I guess I expected too much from certain characters...like Tinsley...how it just hung there....and what really happened to George Abe. And of course Casper...too many loose ends.
