https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/511206.The_Lark_and_the_Wren
In fact, she's so good that she wins a fiddling contest against an ancient and malevolent ghost.
Buoyed by her success, she enters the Bardic Trials to become a licensed bard.
And girls can't be bards!
Rune is hard-working and good hearted, and her love of music is clear.
There's a great bit during the Bardic Trials when she retools a song WHILE SINGING IT to ensure the judges don't think her too proud or female.
The tension between the Bardic Guild and the Free Bards is great, and I liked the sequence of Rune discovering the hardships of the road.
I read this on a plane while on my way to visit a prospective college. I recall this because it marked the point at which I became too old for Mercedes Lackey.
I do think it was this one, but I won't mark it as a re-read since it was basically new to me.It's kind of an odd story.
Then it switches into a not very well built love story (though I think I liked it a lot as a kid) and then into .
So it's basically like 3 different stories that don't really fit that well together.But 4 stars for nostalgia and I really DID like the first half a lot.
And the love story is kind of my thing (I like age differences and master/student stuff, when done right), it's just that it was mostly telling, not showing.
The worldbuilding is excellent, she has created an interesting and relatable main character, and her ability to weave a story carries you along even when the action is relatively mundane – and definitely when it isn’t!As a musician, I can easily identify with Rune, though she’s far more skilled and driven than I will ever be.
Its strengths – Rune and some of the other characters, notably Talaysen; a world familiar enough to be comfortable but different enough to be appealing and interesting; the music that weaves through the entire tale; and above all the storytelling and attention to detail which make that tale come alive – all of these far outweigh any flaws.
The iconic scene in which she plays for the ghost because of a dare happens early in the book and is the turning point in which Rune runs away to try to become a Bard.
When Rune meets her main love interest, she then only has the desire to sleep with him.
This creates an emotionally dissatisfying love story, and I am left wondering if she will end up just sleeping with someone else after they are married.The love story is not the main part of this novel, so this gripe is not enough to diminish the fun of the adventures.
What is a difference between a bard and a minstrel?
Read and find out as you follow a young girl Rune on a quest to become a bard.
My problem with it: it is actually 3 books in one with Rune traveling from one location to another.
As soon as she leaves, the people and events of previous location are completely discarded and almost never mentioned again.
Another problem: somewhere in the middle of the book it becomes a romance novel and stays this way for quite a while (people becoming really stupid, acting out of character, etc.).
Synopsis:This book is set in a fantasy world that is very much like Europe sometime in the past.Rune has spent her entire young life working at a small inn.
I don't suppose I entirely minded that – sometimes it's nice to read books in which there are clearly established “good” and “bad” groups – but it would have been nice if some of the Free Bards had occasionally complained about their lot in life or been a little lazy.
The story made several references to earlier events in Rune’s life, so I found that I knew a lot of the major plot points from the first half of the book.
Normally this would make a book less enjoyable for me because I liked to be surprised by where things go, but the story was much more enjoyable in a full-length novel where all the details were fleshed out so I enjoyed it anyway.
Everything that happened after the first half was more of a surprise and it was nice to finally learn how things turned out after the events in the short story.
I can definitely feel a lot of the same style (not surprising) that is in Valdemar, and the worlds are set in similar king/magic/feudal fantasy land.
Unfortunately, this book is more optimistic than I can really find believable, even for a fantasy novel.
Nothing particularly bad ever happens, and the obstacles that are put in the way of the main characters are very quickly resolved.
Everyone who is bad is pretty darn evil and enough less smart than the good guys that it's not even really a question of whether or not the good guys will triumph.I guess I like it more when things are grey.
This was a reread of a book I loved when I was a young teen.
I lost the book and didn't remember who wrote it.
But I thought of it fondly and was excited to find it again.
Everything works out a little too perfectly for Rune.
She also comes across as a little...young now.
A little bratty and arrogant.
My favorite part of the book used to be the romance.
There's no real connection to the characters except for the music they both love.
I did like the love the bards have for music and their instruments.
Read August 2, 2014---Read 2009: As the first of the Bardic Voices, it was a bit confusing as to what was going on (world set up and all that).
Still, the characters are true to Mercedes Lackey (full of passion, life, goals and good-will) and the plot moves forward pretty well, although at some points I had to really wonder if the whole "mystical" aspect (ghosts, for instance) really fit.
At the end, though, everything made one complete circle and it was just awesome.
Also, the romantic love-story wasn't all that much in the forefront, rather it is the music that counts in this series, which I love.
I always get the feeling that some high fantasy authors crank out books without much of a quality check. Just mix a few mythical creatures, magic, a quest or conspiracy, and a powerful person or two traveling incognito, and you basically have a fantasy novel. It can be done well, I guess, but The Lark and The Wren reminded me somewhat of an average fictionpress.com story: entertaining if skimmed, containing a few frustrating cliches, and not quite meeting my standard.
Lackey utterly ignores the old advice to show, not tell. The book suffers for it.And the pacing in this thing is an utter mess. The plot meanders and stumbles and wheezes along and is just weirdly disjointed.There are germs of something better here, but this is like a rough draft that hasn't been pared and fleshed out and thoroughly edited.
What you have to understand is I really love a lot of Mercedes Lackey's work - but for some reason, the Bardic Voices series left me absolutely cold. I read this book sometime in the mid to late 1990s and then abandoned this series and went back to her Valdemar books.
It was kind of like eating a whole box of Kraft Dinner. Starts out amazing, then devolves into what-was-I-thinking. But you know you're going to want it again. Yes you are.
You'll really get annoyed with the zealots and the sexism in the countries attitudes in the book, but the book is a blast. This is a number three on the ML rating system.
comfort book left over from high school. YA fantasy at it's best/worst!9/1/2007
I decided to reread an old favorite from about 20 years ago and still love it.
I read this book soon after it came out in paperback.
I loved it and have read it at least three times.
I loved the protagonist Rune.
I loved the free bards so much!
The story follows Rune who was born to a bar tavern 'worker'.
She loved music and would sit with the minstrels who would frequent the tavern.
This is a wonderful story about a strong female protagonist who fights for her future and finds her true path among friends.
I often referred this book to friends and family.
At the time I probably talked their ears off about the book.
Going through my large TBR in the hopes of finding books that I want to request at my local library, and I keep finding books that I *know* I reviewed ages ago, but they claim to be unread/unreviewed.
I read it at the age of 13, when I was having troubles and considering running away, and this book helped me through that.
I hope to get a replacement copy soon.
I'll come back and repost my review one of these days, but I do love this story, though I realize that I never finished this series, so adding those books to my reading list as well because why not?
It's a nice easy read, but something about this felt lacking to me.
Her ride being too easy, maybe?
I think I'd have given it three stars if it hadn't been for the ending which managed to be a complete shift in tone.
(view spoiler)[ She ends up in the company of a lost heir to the throne, and the whole section just reveals this incredible simplicity of understanding of monarchy, history, human nature.
People kill for thrones.
You can't pretend they're all going to play nice and stay in power.
(hide spoiler)]
I really enjoyed this book!
Like always Mercedes Lackey grabbed me from page one and held me throughout its conclusion.
I love the way she wrote bards and the world that she created for them.
Her attention to detail is greatly inspiring.My only complaint and the only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is because I kept expecting for the book to unfold into a specific plot.
Instead it was mostly a collection of stories and events that didn't really get tied together other than that they included the same main character.
It was a compelling tale and I thoroughly loved it, but that expectation kept me a little confounded.
This is actually a re-read, but it's been a long time since I've read my Bardic Voices books.
Since I've been in a Mercedes Lackey mood for the past several weeks, I decided on these.The first book introduces Rune, who is miserable working in an inn with her slatternly mother - she would rather have time to practice her violin.
Eventually she is disillusioned with the Guild, meets the Free Bards led by Wren, becomes Lark and begins her adventures.These books are not quite as riveting as Lackey's Valdemar series, but they are still a very good read - and re-read!
I enjoyed this tale. I don't know how authors can immediately cause you to feel an attachment to a character. Rune, the heroine of this story, right away caught my sympathies. After such a difficult childhood, she seemed to fall into all the right places. Certainly her troubles did not end with her running away from home, but she found helpful friends and kind mentors. Her talents and her strong desire to learn and improve gave her real appeal to me.
I can't rate this with any sort of reason or logic, because it was one of my favorite books as a kid and I re-read it now for sheer nostalgia. It was a quick read just like I remembered, with no nuance or subtlety, but there are so many vivid details woven into scenes that make them stick in my mind even when it's as simple as a character getting a bowl of food.
I read this many years ago and just reread it. I do like the character of Rune and her struggles to become a musician. Having read other books in the series, I am also even more interested in the spirit of Skull Hill, who shows up later in the series. And the tight rein of the church and its corruptness just made me angry.
It starts off promising, but at about maybe half way or possibly two-thirds it switches perspective. Suddenly Rune is the secondary character to someone else. It's sort of like she got bored writing it so she stuck some random stuff in for her next books.
Comfort food
Meh. I expected better. This is a disjointed read. Just disappointed with this book.
one of my fallback stories to escape. a little magic, gypsies, street musicians, a feel good story
