https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8579910-anne-belinda
The tone here is also somewhat more serious, with many references to the First World War and its aftermath - although, having said that, she still writes with a light touch and there is a lot of humour.The story starts in 1917, with a prologue which sees injured soldier John Waveney briefly recuperating in England, and meeting his teenage cousin, Anne Belinda.
He becomes increasingly obsessed with finding her, but nobody is keen to help him.The plot of this book is simpler than most Wentworths I've read so far, but the characters are better drawn than in some of the others.
A very large number of her books are accessible online on Faded Page.com, as free e-books.
(Yikes, it was expensive!) Many of Patricia Wentworth's plots have a fair number of heroines (and occasionally heroes) who sacrifice their own personal safety, social position or happiness for a younger, more selfish sibling or family member.
I am volunteering to scan this book for the Distributed Proofreaders of Canada group, which supplies Faded Page.com with free e-books.
I encourage all of you who have some free time to volunteer for this organization: we need to preserve great public domain books like these for future generations.
I do like Patricia Wentworth's books but they do seem to drag out a bit. This one got very exasperating because some of the characters wouldn't explain why the main character had disappeared which became very annoying and when the main character was found all she kept saying was "Don't"! Think I prefer the Miss Silver books which at least moved on at a slightly faster pace!
old fashioned but heaps of fun. good solid romance.
I am happy to say this book is back in print from Dean Street Press!http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
Excellent book as usualThe Wentwoth books as near as I can determine are all excellent! In her "Miss Silver" mysteries there is always a pretty, vulnerable girl and the handsome man who rescues her along with a good mystery. This book has the girl and the handsome man but there is not so much mystery. However, it does have an interesting and humorous cast of characters which, along with her usual polished writing style, make for an excellent read!
I'm not much of a fan of the "I've decided we're going to get married, and you'll eventually come around" hero. And I'm not much of a fan of the "I won't explain myself or stand up for myself" heroine. That said, this is a fun book, but I maintain that Wentworth's Miss Silver mysteries are her best.
Good, but not really a mystery.
Enjoyable Suspense Story, not a Whodunit This 90-year-old suspense novel is worth your time. The opening pace is rather slower than what we are used to, and I was tempted to quit reading early on. So glad I stuck with it – – it's another win for Wentworth fans. I'm not going to spoil your fun by telling you any of the details. Just read it and enjoy a tale well told.
This was one of Wentworth's best, a good story line and interesting characters that you cared about.
