https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19000.The_Constant_Gardener
In the guise of a thriller the novel tells the story of how money and power can crush the voices of the good people who try to fight injustice.The story begins with a scene in the British High Commission in Nairobi, Kenya.
The deaths of the victims were a thing to be brushed under the carpet.Tessa’s fight brought her in conflict with a pharma giant, and guess what – the corrupt Kenyan government and the British government were not only mute spectators to this crime, but in collusion with ensuring that the affair did not come to light.Tessa was murdered while travelling with Dr. Arnold Bluhm, a charismatic Belgian “black” who was her fellow activist and supposed lover.
“The most peaceble people will do the most terrible things when they're pushed.” ― John le Carré, The Constant GardenerI have been a little reluctant to read le Carré's post-Cold War, post-Smiley novels.
It isn't a traditional love story, and not exactly a happy love story, but it is an amazing story of loyalty, love and understanding that leaves the reader both tired and sated.If one day I discovered I could write a novel that was just 1/2 as good as 'The Constant Gardener', I would think I had been blessed with a masterpiece.
Πολυπρόσωπη, καθηλωτική αφήγηση απ'τον μαιτρ στα καλύτερά του. Στα συν η Κένυα που βρίσκεται στο προσκήνιο (κ είναι η χώρα-κόλλημα φέτος), ότι είχα στα χέρια μου ένα ταλαίπωρο Bellάκι που είχα βρει για 1ε στην Αμοργό πριν 2 χρόνια (τα είχα βρει σχεδόν όλα) κ ότι δεν θυμόμουν τίποτα απ'την ταινία κ το διάβαζα με κομμένη την ανάσα.Απίθανο.
So far, out of all the LeCarre books that I have read at this point, this has been one of my favourites. It was a very heart wrenching story that featured a journey. And that journey was a man discovering how much his late wife truly loved him. And the work she was partaking in that she kept hidden from him. Going through this journey he loved her even more.It was also a novel of intrigue and espionage based around the pharma industry in Africa.Try and find a copy of this incredible story.
One of the reviewers on Amazon complained that this book had little to do with gardening.
I think Le Carre has made the transition from Cold War spy novels to contemporary issue thrillers quite handsomely.
In this book, he really goes after the pharmaceutical companies, accusing them not only of unethical practices using Africans as guinea pigs, but also suggests they would kill anyone whom might deign to challenge their unholy hegemony.It's also truly a great love story.
The relationship of trust and reliance that emerges gradually through the course of the novel between Tessa and Justin is really wonderful.
I made rapid progress through this long book thanks to an intriguing plot, empathy with the protagonists, a serious socio-political backdrop and plenty of interesting peripheral characters.Le Carre has been very careful to make Tessa and her husband Justin humble, passionate and self-effacing, since the role of White Saviour in Africa is, to say the least, problematic.
***2018 Summer of Spies*** So its summer, finally and at last, here in the Great White North. It’s time for some summer fun reading about espionage! This is my first venture into Le Carré’s work and I enjoyed it.I had expected a rather light & frothy thriller and instead I got a serious examination of big pharma—its use of the unfortunate as test subjects and its desire to put profit well ahead of human kindness. Also explored is the nature of colonialism in Kenya, reminding me a bit of The
Heavy subjects for a popular novel!I also got a reminder on the nature of marriage—those of us on the outside of a marriage really have no idea what’s happening on the inside.
On the outside, Sandy and Gloria Woodrow look like the stable, steady couple and Justin and Tessa Quayle look like a precarious, unmatched union.
The book begins from Sandy Woodrow’s point of view and quickly disabuses the reader of the notion that his marriage is solid.
Woodrow’s constant search for sex outside his marriage was tiresome and it was a relief when I reached the point where Le Carré switched to Justin’s POV.
In the 60’s I distinctly remember reading two of the authors earlier books, The Spy Who Came in From the Cold and the Looking Glass War. With no pun intended I read them in a small town in Germany, a town located not too far distant from where the fictitious events of the stories took place.
However if it was his intention to enlighten us then a one hour TV documentary would have done the job better as at 508 pages it’s about 100 too long.
Might be one of those rare occasions when the film is better than the book.
The strongest part of the book is probably its intelligent and complex plot which involves major pharmaceutical companies.
I was both compelled and horrified by what I learned about pharmaceutical companies.
Furthermore, the book holds a lot of cultural analysis, which I found to be both true and insightful.Le Carre has an incredible strength for details which not only allows the plot to soar, but also gives the reader incredibly scenery and characterization.
This strength for details is also what allows him to give such strong and interesting cultural analysis, and make it seem like you can actually see all of the interactions taking place.
What was the point of having Justin suffer the same bruises along the way if someone else will have to fight for him too in the end?
I haven't written 18 books like John Le Carre on the year he published The Constant Gardener.
I like Justin laughing even if he's grieving.
. I haven't read that word before, not in the few John Grisham and Jeffery Deaver mystery thrillers I've consumed.
A man ennobled by his wife's tragic murder...I've read that a good writer has this skill of choosing one word instead of another.
John Le Carre chose the word ennobled.
One of my favourite Le Carre novels, right up there with The Spy Who Came in from the Cold and the Smiley books. It works on every level: as a thriller, as suspense fiction, as character study, as social and economic critique. Truly moving and compelling.
I was wrong, but maybe I shouldn't have been so surprised.I felt Le Carré didn't address the pharmaceutical issue with enough depth, and focused too much on making the main character, Justin, run all over the world, trying to solve the mystery of his wife’s murder.
If you’re looking for a page-turner, this is definitely worth a read, but if you’re looking for a substantive manifesto against the pharmaceutical industry (and yes, I do realize I might be the only weirdo in the world looking for this in a novel), you’ll be disappointed.
I had never read anything by John Le Carre before. I thoroughly enjoyed this book. He is a masterful writer who develops interesting characters and describes scenes with poetic intensity. This is the sort of book I could see myself rereading in years to come. There is so much in it. Clearly the author is so much more than a spy novelist.
Yeah, this isn't the best le Carre. The beginning of the book was quite engrossing, and then it is like it takes a right turn. The husband's investiagtion is just annoying on some levels. 3 stars because of the beginning.
Começamos a ler este livro e percebemos logo que Le Carré tem uma forma de narrar muito própria, complexa e algo densa, com analepses dentro de analepses, o que exige de nós alguma concentração para não perdermos o fio à meada e compreendermos a história.
Para dizer a verdade, pensei que me ia deparar nestas páginas com uma história romanticazinha melodramática (nunca tinha lido nada de John Le Carré antes), por isso foi interessante descobrir que me enganei redondamente.
E se, no princípio, não simpatizamos muito com a personagem Tessa, à medida que a história vai evoluindo, essa primeira impressão acaba por desaparecer e acabamos por admirá-la.
Tessa Quayle and her friend Arnold Bluhm MD wage a two-man war against the ravages of the drug.
When Quayle is murdered and Bluhm disappears, things start to happen.
Tessa's husband, John Quayle, a Foreign Office functionary, suddenly disappears and, under false ID, pursues his wife's crusade on his own.
The Foreign Office is 100% behind KVH (you know, jobs), and Quayle must avoid his employers as well as KVH's thugs, who are out to get him.Even after the fall of Communism, author John le Carré is able to retain interest in other evil aspects of the global situation, in this case the greed of Big Pharma.
It is difficult to find fault with this book, so I won't try.
The end itself leaves you a bit more cynical, a bit sad and with the feeling that you cannot fight the system, in this case governments and big business in league together.
Perhaps in league is too strong: one government is mostly corrupt and the other turns a blind eye because it is expedient and helps their own country's companies.The story concerns what the giant pharmaceutical companies will do to protect their profits and what governments will do to protect big business (and, therefore, their campaign funds and economic prosperity).
Take your pick.Although this story is about a British company (among others) and the British and Kenyan governments, it could be anyone really.
The plot is pretty transparent to everyone but the protagonist, who would know immediately what's going on if he'd read the back cover blurb.
Instead of being a thriller full of unexpected twists and turns, the reader has to wait for the protagonist to catch up.
When the plot drags behind the reader, the book soon becomes a tedious, plodding read.
The entire plot relies on the reader's sympathy for the character who cannot guess the obvious.
This is one of LeCarre's best novels--especially impressive because he's out of his usual Cold War milieu. But the narrative drive, the simmering anti-corporate anger, are all there. Also, the opening paragraph is a marvel: precise, engaging, suspenseful, and a quick character sketch, all in one.
What a tedious read!! This book was about 300 pages too long. The topic should have been interesting but LeCarre found a way to make it boring. I also watched the movie in the hopes that it would improve my opinion of the book. Didn't work.
People raved about this novel, but I thought it was boring and predictable, and had too much dialogue. Woman is murdered in Kenya for investigating whether drug companies are using people as guinea pigs. Her husband solves the mystery.
Talvez por o filme não estar tão presente na minha cabeça, fui surpreendido agradavelmente pela obra, ainda que não tenha conseguido destrinçar mentalmente as personagens Justin e Tessa Quayle das figuras de Fiennes e Weisz, atores que parecem assentar como uma luva nas criações de le Carré.Ora, apesar de não ler nada do autor há três anos, é uma das minhas maiores referências fora do âmbito do fantástico.
Através dos mais variados pontos de vista, conhecemos uma história que em alguns momentos parece não ser muito difícil de desmontar, mas que nos reserva uma dissonância de paralelismos e detalhes que roçam o inquietante.Justin Quayle é o fiel jardineiro que intitula a obra.
As suas histórias me surpreenderam e fizeram com que as vivesse verdadeiramente.O livro começa com a morte de Tessa.
Tessa era uma mulher humanitária que estava no Quénia para combater a tuberculose.
Mas acaba por descobrir um medicamento que utiliza mulheres africanas como cobaias.
John é um homem bastante inteligente, mas a morte da sua esposa afectou-o profundamente.
Acaba por desistir do seu trabalho, e ficar obcecado com a história de Wanza ( a mulher africana que Tessa estava tentando ajudar).Não foi capaz de adivinhar que era o assassino.
Fortunately, after a couple of attempts in different directions, Le Carre has found a new cause: Pharmaceutical companies and their dealings, in particular in Africa.
As he says himself in the acknowledgements, in comparison to real life, his revelations are as 'tame as a picture postcard'.We learn about the almost random testing of drugs on innocent Africans who believe that the men in white will cure them.
With fine attention to detail, he creates a set of characters who are as much stereotypes of British Foreign and Secret Service operating in Africa as they are real and complex individuals.
Possibly one of modern literature's most enthralling narrators of its time, Le Carré creates a carefully calibrated and well-researched story in the politically relevant novel.
His deliberate choices as a storyteller are admirable as he manages to reveal bits of information in the most unexpected ways, keeping the reader focused at all times.
Regardless of whether they are antagonists, protagonists, or minor characters he creates a unique voice, way of thinking, and past to each one.
His well-built characters become the glue to the already strong elements of the novel.
Tragedy in individual life of a fictional character on the other hand gives rise to literary gems (a la Shakespeare & the gang) or movies (read tear jerker/pay back movies).
The backdrop of John Le Carre’s The Constant Gardener has a tragic backdrop of a wife who is a devoted human rights activist getting murdered in a barren wasteland in Kenya in a most gruesome way.
Like some of us mere mortals, he realizes the worth of love once that flame gets extinguished.The tale drags at places but that does not make me want to reduce a star in the rating scale, it is a solid five star book for me.
Even though this is quite a good book, I honestly thought the film was better.
This is the rare situation where a good book is made into a better movie.
The book is a decent thriller, but the movie told an important and moving story, and did it in a much more credible way.
I don’t know – the movie made me cry for Tessa and for Justin and for Africa, and the book just made me tear through the pages, and shake my head cynically.
The Constant Gardner by John le Carre.
I loved it; I don't know that I've enjoyed a book more (although I've liked some as much).
I liked Smiley and the other characters, well, John le Carre's books; I'm so glad I got to read this one.
It focuses on the drug industry and how some things contribute to problems, rather than help them.
It also focuses on the diplomatic life in an African country right before the colonial regime changed into sort of a more local one.
It's one book that I really didn't want to end!
Το ξεκίνησα να πάρω μια γεύση πριν πάω στην παραλία και τελικά δεν πήγα στην παραλία εκείνη την ημέρα και την έβγαλα με το βιβλίο και ‘’γλεντώντας’’ το βράδυ με πιτόγυρα και μου φαίνεται είχα πάρει κι ένα ποντικάκι απ’ το ζαχαροπλαστείο.
Αυτό που τον άλλαξε είναι και η ουσία του μυθιστορήματος αυτού: Πότε ξεκινάει και πότε χάνεται η επικοινωνία σε ένα ζευγάρι; Πότε παύουμε να εμπιστευόμαστε τα ειδικά, την εσώτερη έκφραση, τα θέλω, τις πεποιθήσεις μας και ζούμε μαζί και μόνοι; Μετά συμβαίνει κάτι μέσα στη ζωή, μια αρρώστια, ένας θάνατος ακόμη κι αν δεν είναι μια φαντασμαγορική δολοφονία, ή φτάνουν τα πράγματα με κάποιο τρόπο σε ένα τέρμα.
The story starts slowly but eventually develops in a pretty decent thriller. I am glad that Kenya looks more promising as compared to late 1990s.
