https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4887.The_Drama_of_the_Gifted_Child
rather, the original german word refers to the ability to empathize and meet the needs of a parent figure--at the loss of your true self.
while this gift might enable one to survive his/her childhood, the gifted person's unmet need to express without fear her true feelings and wishes lingers like a virus that wreaks a quiet havoc on one's sense of self throughout adulthood if untreated.
this book offers the start of such treatment, best summed-up in a word: hope.thanks to this book, i have a lot of hope.
Miller presents a solid theory with some difficult truths, but at time the narrowness of her idea turns into a sort of tunnel vision with sweeping generalizations that are far too much.
61:]"...I can understand my suicidal ideas better now, especially those I had in my youth...because in a way I had always been living a life that wasn't mine, that I didn't want, and that I was ready to throw away." [p.
This narcissism is an internalisation of the great expectations of one's parents, the consequent lasting feelings of inadequacy and drive to greater and greater successes (that leave one hollow).
Miller claims that the key to these feelings is the realisation that one was loved as a child not for who one was, but (in large part at least) because of one's achievements.
This leaves the child always desperate to achieve more, to safeguard their parents' love.
One's own personality, desires, needs and emotions are suppressed to create a projected perfection which attracts love and awe.
Fazla çıkarım yapamadığım bir kitaptı. Şunuda söylemeliyim ki kişisel gelişim sevmiyorum ben.
When this sense is combined with a deficiency or disorder on the part of the parent - anxiety, manic-depressive, etc., the child has to go to extreme lengths.This creates two 'selves' - the 'true self' - that is, the child's own 'genuine' personality and needs, and the 'false self', complying, totally obedient, utterly withdrawn, willing to lie in order to present a false happy image.
The true self is subsumed to the lie, or the false self.
Although there have been some (many?) superseding advances in developmental + environmental psychology as well as the epigenetics of mental disorder and abuse, this is still a fascinating read.
There were a few details that did not match my life for sure, but on the whole, this book freed me.The book describes the extraordinary behaviors, symptoms, resulting characteristics in both the Narcissist and the victim.Too you can't explain away a person with just one cause, and no one is a pure Narcissist, nor should anyone be a total victim.The biggest drawback to the book is that after reading it, being enlightened and more aware of Narcissistic behavior and the stunted growth of the victims...you then say: then what?Alice Miller never ever talks about forgiveness or how to overcome being victimized, stuck in indignation.
After recovering somewhat from my parent's punishment of me for saying the truth to them about themselves during my childhood, I am now able to realize that it is true that the most commonly practiced child-rearing practices devastate us psychologically, and that I need to re-discover what my parents did to me during my childhood and how I felt about it in order to recover my psychological health.For those who have the ability to heal from the traumas they suffered by feeling the repressed feelings from those traumas, Alice Miller's books provide enough information to provoke a long-term emotional healing process.
I've read a lot a really helpful books that my therapist has recommended to me in the past six months or so. This book is amazing and straight to the point. I would recommend it for anyone that has issues w their parents that they want some perspective on or anyone concerned about possibly passing on the legacy of their own difficulties to their children, however inadvertently. I will read all of Alice Miller's books after reading this one.
The one complaint I have so far is that she gives advice for confronting your childhood as an adult, but she doesn't give advice on how to raise kids even though she shares a lot of the don'ts.___________________________________________________________________So after finishing this book, I still found it good and it had great food for thought.
But there wasn't a lot of hopefulness in it, and I felt like it was lacking constructive examples of how to take her advice and confront and mourn things that went wrong in your own childhood.
Also, this was a book written for therapists and not patients so that could have something to do with the lack of hands on advice.
I had read good things about it; apparently the author's insights on childhood were important in developing psychological understanding in the 70's and later.
The book is not comprehensive -- a lot of things are brought up as side-points that could, and have, easily become a book-length topic.
So it seems like this book has value as a "germinal" book, starting new conversations rather than coming to a final conclusions about anything.
One of the most important books in my life.
A succinct and insightful book about the effects of child abuse.
Alice Miller writes with conviction and compassion, and I most enjoyed how she emphasizes the hope all of us gifted children should have: we can all lead fulfilling and meaningful lives, with effort and kindness to ourselves.Miller does make some generalizations in The Drama of the Gifted Child, as I doubt all feminist women with piercings or angry male politicians faced childhood abuse.
I read this book at quite the fitting time in my personal life, so expect it to make an appearance in my future memoir/writing.
Μέσα από την πολυετή πείρα της ως ψυχαναλύτρια, η συγγραφέας παραθέτει απτά παραδείγματα από την κλινική της εμπειρία με γλωσσα κατανοητή και με πολλές επεξηγηματικές παραπομπές, χωρίς να γίνεται ούτε στιγμή υπερβολικά τεχνική ούτε όμως και απλοϊκή, βρίσκοντας επομένως τη χρυσή τομή μεταξύ του επιστημονικού εγχειριδίου και της λογοτεχνικής παρουσίασης που απευθύνεται τόσο σε ανυποψίαστους όσο και σε "ψαγμένους" αναγνώστες, απλούς ανθρώπους και ειδικούς, ασθενείς και θεραπευτές.
Εξαιρετική δουλειά.Κατά τη διάρκεια της ανάγνωσης υπογράμμισα κι έβαλα σελιδοδείκτες τουλάχιστον στο μισό βιβλίο, παραθέτω όμως μόνο ένα μικρό απόσπασμα που βρήκα ιδιαιτέρως σημαντικό."Στην πραγματικότητα οι ιδέες μεγαλείου είναι η άμυνά μας ενάντια στην κατάθλιψη και η κατάθλιψη είναι η άμυνα στο βαθύ πόνο για την απώλεια του εαυτού μας εξαιτίας της άρνησης της πραγματικότητας."
Περίμενα πολύ καιρό την κατάλληλη στιγμή για να το διαβάσω.Πίστευα ότι θα με βοηθούσε να καταλάβω κάποια πράγματα και για τον εαυτό μου και για τους γύρω μου, και πράγματι το έκανε.Αλλά δεν έχω χειρότερο από τις ατελείωτες επαναλήψεις είτε φραστικές είτε θεματολογικές.Ενώ το βρήκα αρκετά ενδιαφέρον δε μου άρεσε ο τρόπος που ήταν γραμμένο.Σαν χαζή ένιωθα που έπρεπε να διαβάζω το ίδιο πράγμα κάθε τρεις και λίγο.Πάντως αν σας αρέσουν τα βιβλία ψυχολογίας και οι εσωτερικές αναλύσεις να του δώσετε μια ευκαιρία.2,5/5
This is the best book I have ever read. Do not be fooled by the title--the original title of the book was "Prisoners of Childhood," and I believe the publisher talked the author into changing the title so that proud parents would want to buy the book. As a marketing ploy, it worked. But it's really not about "gifted children" in the contemporary sense, which is often about ratings and education. It is about the most important issue of our time: raising children.
Biz Psikologlar bir sebepten ötürü bu mesleği seçtik. Kendi yaralarımızı saramadık, ama başkalarının yaralarını sarmaya kendimizi adadık. Bu yolla iyileşmeyi umduk belki de. Bu kitap bir terapistin dünyasını, çıkmazlarını ve sancılarını güzel ifade ediyor.Bir Psikolog olarak benim için çok çarpıcı bir kitaptı. Defalarca kendi çocukluğuma döndüm. Biz yetişkinler olarak hepimizin içinde hala kabul görmek isteyen, sevilmek isteyen, takdir edilmek isteyen, ihtiyaçları olan bir çocuk var. Tüm bu kaotik yaşam da bundan dolayı değil mi zaten?
But while I admit my personal bias against the foundation for her psychological theory, I still believe the construction of her general arguments to be weak as well.
While surely cathartic, this doesn't strike me as a sound basis for a psychological treatise.I might be able to forgive all that, had the writing been more compelling or better organized.
I cannot excuse the poor construction of this text, or Miller's failure to adequately support her points or tie together the various threads of her argument.
"It's a seminal work in my field," Dr. Paul Weston (HBO's "In Treatment") said in response to Frances, the daughter-diagnosed-narcissist, when Frances asked her therapist, Paul (the brooding Gabriel Byrne), if he's ever heard of, "The Drama of the Gifted Child."Naturally, I downloaded the book the next day.
Perhaps one of the most practical parts of the book is when Miller lists what she would look for in a therapist, and the types of questions she would ask the prospective analyst, specifically: "Why did you choose this field?" This is essential.But even if you go to therapy, and think you've found a good shrink, he might be unconsciously taking his issues out on you.
The thing about these people, though, is that their parents were fundamentally flawed and repeated these actions over and over again.
Unlike in Miller's book, these were not one-off events.I think it is great that Miller decided to write about these people, but she took the ideas too far.
Babies should have their needs catered to and children should be respected for who they are, but they should not be allowed to "order their mothers around like paschas." It is normal for good, loving parents to need a night off, and it is necessary for them not to indulge their child's every whim.

Miller'a göre anne ve bebek arasındaki ilişki, bir çocuğun yetişkin yaşamını ve sonrasında kendi çocuğuyla kurduğu ilişkiyi etkiliyor.
Miller'a göre anne sevgisi en önemli şey."Anne sevgisi yaşamımızdaki o ancak yudum yudum elde ettiğimiz fakat hiç vazgeçemediğimiz -ve amacına tümüyle aykırı olarak- birçoğumuzun bir yudumunun bedelini, canlılığını feda ederek ödemek zorunda olduğu şeylerden değil midir?" (s.39)Anne sevgisinin tabii ki koşulsuz olması gerekiyor; annenin çocuğuyla tam bir bağlanma gerçekleştirmesi ve çocuğun tüm duygularını yaşamasına izin veren bir ilişki kurması çok önemli.
Eğer anne çocuğuna bakarken sadece küçük, emsalsiz, aciz yavrusunu görüyor, çocuğuna kendi beklentilerini, korkularını, çocuk için kurduğu planlarını yansıtıyorsa, bebek annenin yüzünde kendini değil, sadece annenin yoksunluğunu bulur.
[She] simply meant all of us who have survived an abusive childhood thanks to an ability to adapt even to unspeakable cruelty by becoming numb...Without this 'gift' offered us by nature, we would not have survived."I would like to give this book only 1 star for the pain it caused me in unlocking repressed memories from my childhood.
But as Miller says, "The aim of therapy, however, is not to correct the past, but to enable the patient both to confront his own history and to grieve over it.
If the time or the person isn't a great fit, you might hate this book and think it is useless, but if the timing is right, then you might love it.
It's about learning about yourself and where you came from.
To a certain extent we are all trying to better understand who we are and where we came from.
Even if you completely deny that you came from anywhere because you dont like that place, that is your attempt to figure it all out.
I read this over three days.
The first day i loved it.
The gist of it is that parents' expectations of their children can be projected in such a way on them, that it robs them from their "true feelings" and "true self", trying to become the "perfect" child that will meet their parents approval and gain their love.A lot of times, the children ignore/shut off/repress their own needs and feelings to fully live up to their parents' expectations/demands, out of fear that if they don't, their parents will abondon them (not literally, but their love might wear off).Very powerful read.
As an adult, it truly puts your childhood in restrospective, and makes you understand that how you were brought up as a child influences heavily how you conduct yourself as an adult.
"The only defense we have against mental illness is the discovery of the truth of our childhood."Should be required reading for every psychologist. I liked it even more when, in the third section of the book, the author used Hermann Hesse as an example! I learned something about my favorite author--and, more importantly, gained some highly valuable insights that I hope I can put into practice in integrating my own self.
Στην αρχή ενθουσιάστηκα, στο τέλος λίγο με έχασε. Συνολικά όμως διαφωτιστικό και ενδιαφέρον βιβλίο.
Το βιβλίο αυτό είναι μια αποκάλυψη. Τα 5 αστέρια είναι πραγματικά λίγα. Μακάρι να το διάβαζαν όλοι, ειδικά όσοι επιθυμούν ή επρόκειτο να γίνουν γονείς ή όσοι είχαν (ή νομίζουν πως δεν είχαν...) δύσκολα παιδικά χρόνια. Εξαιρετικό!
I was going through a rough patch -- divorce, change of residence/state, change of occupation, all those major stressors -- and this book was more than a help, it made me see myself and my personal struggle in a new light.I can't and won't try to summarize this book in a few trite sentences.
Dr. Miller states her objective, in the introduction to the original edition of her work, as follows: "...I am looking for a way ...
by which the patient can regain his long-lost authentic sense of being truly alive."This book helped me do just that.
I read this book after reading about it in Alison Bechdel's 'Are You My Mother' and thinking it sounded like something I needed to check out.
In some ways, it was like opening Pandora's Box. But since I am dedicated to self-work and to asking myself difficult questions/challenging myself, I think it was a good thing.
Still, if you're planning to read this, prepare to have your world potentially upended in a very quick read.
And I agree with the sentiment of a few other folks: one really out to read this book if one is planning on having/has had children.
Another self-help book that I read in my early-20s, and it was instrumental in helping me understand many of my problems. It didn't "heal" me or change me, but it was a major step in self-recognition.
