https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2579284-six-days-of-the-condor
”This is Condor, Section 9, Department 17. ‘We’ve been hit.’” Choose your own Condor. He can look like this.  Or like this.Most days, Ronald Malcolm’s biggest worries were from which coffee pot on which floor he was going to get his dose of caffeine, what type of sandwich he was going to have at lunch, and not dawdling too long in the morning so he was at his work desk on time to admire the beautiful siren walking by his building every day. Simple life for a normal guy. His job was not normal. I
Or like this.Most days, Ronald Malcolm’s biggest worries were from which coffee pot on which floor he was going to get his dose of caffeine, what type of sandwich he was going to have at lunch, and not dawdling too long in the morning so he was at his work desk on time to admire the beautiful siren walking by his building every day.
His job was to read these books and take notes of anything that happens that might be of use to the CIA at some point and time.
Three Days of the Condor A.K A. Six Days Of The CondorThese people won't even give a straight answer about the title of the book.It's all about a CIA operative whose job it is to read... how cool is that.Also loosely adapted by Hollywood into what I thought was a good movie.http://www.newsweek.com/james-grady-l...…I did enjoy the book.but keep that under your hat
James Grady's first novel, written and published when he was in in his mid-twenties.
When the reader realizes this fact the novel can be enjoyed for what it is.
A short and fast moving story that still has the ability to pull the reader in.
Like William Goldman's classic novel Marathon Man I like the fact that the characters have to rely on their skills and luck rather than a plethora of high-tech devices to help them out.
Mr. Grady has written many other novels in the decades that have followed and his writing has improved.
There's Six Days of the Condor ... and then there is everything else. This is the thriller that every thriller writer wishes s/he had written. A classic that I re-read once a year just so I have something to aim for when I sit down to write.
An amazing gem of a thrilling read! If you love espionage, spy games, etc., then this a perfect summer read!
He happened to be wandering down a street when he imagined that behind one of the doors was a secret CIA research bureau.
Grady learned in 2008 from Comrade J by Pete Early, that the Russians assumed from watching the Redford movie that this was the way the CIA conducted business, and they formed a 2,000 man secret bureau devoted to doing the kind of research now so common in movies and shows such as Rubicon.
I would make it 3 stars for the writing, five for the idea and plot, so we’ll round it off to 4 (in reality, probably 3.14159265, heh heh.)Nancy has a nice plot summary in her review.
This spy thriller was made into the Robert Redford film, Three Days of the Condor. Although the plot of the book differs from the film, the basic elements remain the same. The reason for the hit on "Condor's" department differs from that of the film version. Also, the book has a more definite ending than the film. A good read, but I just like the movie better.
The research analysts read mystery and thriller novels and pass any scenarios that are too close to the mark of past and or present operations.
Malcolm quickly learns that he can’t trust anyone and disappears into the streets of the Capitol, hoping to evade the killers long enough to unravel the conspiracy.
We are treated to 3 distinct POVs: Malcolm’s, the agents who want to save him, and those shadowy ones who don’t.2.) Grady departs from the usual spy thrillers of that time.
In his Author’s Notes, Grady says he was surprised that the Soviets actually thought theCondor’s RD section existed and quickly formed their own equivalent to its fictional counterpart.
I'm not one to usually read spy novels but seeing that this book was the basis for the movie (titled  Three Days of the Condor  ) I had to find out why the difference in titles.
The author gives a great explanation of this and more about how the Russians ended up modeling a section of their spy network based on the movie.
It kept me glued to the book which made it great reading (and listening) for me.
I was fascinated by the concept that this fictional section of the CIA read books as their "job" and particularly Malcolm (Condor's) assignment.
I almost NEVER quit on a book, but I quit this one after suffering 100 pages.
It was so famous, I wanted to read it.
But it was just bloody awful.
Besides the unbelievable fact that the lead character kidnaps a woman, forces her at gunpoint to take him to her house, and then she just decides to climb into his bed and screw him that night?
I'm reading books all the time.
I suffered through a number of ho-hum books, but made it to the end.
I just couldn't bear to suffer with this one any longer.
One of the employees there, Ronald Malcolm, advises another employee (Heidegger) to ignore it when he finds a record for two crates of books that the society never received, but for which they had paid.
From this point, things go horribly wrong for Malcolm, and he finds himself on the run, with his life on the line.An awesome book -- you seriously don't know who you can trust in this story which heightens the experience and the aura of suspense which builds throughout.
Recommended for people who enjoy espionage fiction, suspense or people who like stories about the CIA.
Rating : 9/10(Extraordinary) - Six Days Remarkable This novel was so good with no plot holes and more conspiracy and espionage as the chapter progresses. The story telling of the novel was truly quirky in itself and there was no filler moments. Only thing I loathe(not very much though) was the exposition which was sometimes too much to take in.
Good book.Movie before reading the book was good too. Forty years a go when there was fewer three and four letter agencies. Necessary papers had to be overnight by planes delivered. Exciting read and remembered those days.
Good book. Fast-paced. Set in the 70's but still readable today. Now I want to see the movie.
another mid-70s conspiracy thriller seen on tv when too young to fully appreciate.
but remembered, watched dvd, recall too clearly the star power of redford and dunaway, very interesting to read it again and see where it was made cinematic, compressed 6 days into 3.
the book is lean to begin with, the times were paranoid, but it is not too complex, just suggestive of more than we can know.
the book is fun, quick, clean, unencumbered by extra psychology, complex characters, could see how this appeals to filmmakers.
it is apparently some sort of platonic form of the contemporary thriller, easy to see why...
"Da Vinci Code" and other similar modern conspiracy thrillers are a well developed, refined product category.
They have several intertwined subplots, plenty of surprising twists and substantial character development.
"Six Days of the Condor" is one of the foundation lying books of this genre.
It's an early model.
There are no twists (that's an extra that appeared on later models).
The characters have just about as much individuality as a dull plastic gear shift lever.All in all, if you're interested in historic spy thrillers, then go ahead, read it.
Otherwise just get yourself a newer model.
Every bit as good as I rememberedHolds up very well after all these years. The updated forward by the author adds interesting notes about what was changed for publication and the movie.
Read this while I was in college, shortly after it was published. One of the best spy novels I've ever read.
Excellent book and movie.
Tutte le forze di sicurezza americane si mettono in moto sospettando che il colpevole sia lui; Malcolm, nome in codice Condor, inizia così una fuga di sei giorni nella quale fortunosamente riesce a non farsi rintracciare nemmeno dai doppiogiochisti e dai criminali che hanno scatenato la drammatica sequenza di eventi per nascondere un traffico di droga.Precisiamo subito che siamo davanti ad un caso raro, dove il film era più emozionante e affascinante del libro.
truyện này nhớ j ta, chắc nhớ con mẹ bond girl tên wendy, oh wendy =))) sao mình phải đọc truyện này ta, đọc xong thấy trớ trêu j đao à =))
Newly issued A Mysterious Press, this 2016 edition has a 20-page introduction by James Grady as a bonus, giving background about the development, writing, research, movie-making, and repercussions of Six Days of the Condor.
Mr. Grady writes much like a screen-writer and has a journalistic prose.
He plain style makes the espionage even more suspenseful and believable for me.
Lastly, I liked James Grady's style of transition from one scene to another one happening at the same time...this method also seen in the Argentine political mystery Betty Boo by Claudia Pineiro.
But the book is nothing like the movie; the plot is completely different, the characters have different names, and the ending is a surprise.
The movie was about a CIA analyst who escapes a mass assassination at his office and must figure out what is going on as he eludes further attempts on his life with the help of a beautiful woman.
The book was about ex-CIA killers from the Vietnam War days who are now involved in drug running; the plot is similar to the movie, Lethal Weapon 2.
I credit the author with describing the fight in words that made the action come alive better than a movie.
Clumsily written (the author even used 'lay' where he meant 'lie,' which brings to mind the eternal question: where were the editors?), badly plotted, this thriller bears little resemblance to the very fine, taut Sydney Pollack/Robert Redford film made from it ("Three Days of the Condor," which should tip you that Pollack and screenplay writer Lorenzo Semple know more than Grady about pacing).
In every instance where the moviemakers veered from the plot they bettered the story.
A few others come to mind: "Jaws," "The Godfather," "The Shining," "Gone with the Wind," "Big Trouble," and maybe "Election."
I picked up this book while scanning the mystery shelves at my local library.
I had seen the movie and enjoyed it, but then Robert Redford was 40 years younger and easy on the eye.
The book has the same plot line, but the endings are significantly different.
The book is dated, but I actually enjoyed that the story proceeded without cell phones and home computers.
I enjoyed the short rapid fire sentences, and the concurrent action with the various characters in the book.
The book is a quick read and I would most definitely recommend it to anyone who likes a well constructed mystery.
Very short book, and some of the writing is a little basic, but it zips along quite quickly. There are lots of little details about how the intelligence agency works that are fairly convincing, and lots of deatils about the way people work that aren't. The ending is particularly unconvincing and a bit rushed (and different to the movie).Overall, it's a fun read for the most part, but not very memorable.
The book is written in a style that I liked a lot. Simple, no euphemisms, and flowing. Simply a good thriller. Like the majority of people, I watched the film first when I was younger (but it's called instead "Three days of the Condor") and then realized that it was based on this novel. The book is a very good thriller, captivating from the beginning.
When I was a wee lass I watched a movie 'Three days of Condor'. Robert Redford kidnapped Fay Dunaway and then they had sex! There's a great lesson for everybody, methinks - if Robert Redford kidnaps you, sexytimes is a given. And the book itself. I must have liked it, 'cause 4* rating. I just cannot remember why. But Robert Redford and Fay Dunaway will be forever imprinted in my brain.
now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
Spies. Intrigue. Action. Sex. Murder.These are a few of my favorite things! At last a classic that exceeds expectations! It was fast paced, relevant, intelligent, and short. A must read.
