https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426763.Mule_Bone
(screw alphabetical order)I find it interesting that Langston Hughes receives first billing for this play.
By the time I finally read this disputed play by Langston Hughes and Zora Neale Huston, I had already read several other plays by Hughes (and his poetry, of course) and the short story by Hurston that provided the base for the play as well as several books by her.
I had read about the lives of these two great American authors in their memoirs and other sources, so knew the play existed long before it was available.
This play was written and copyrighted in 1931, but not published until 1991, it was based on a short story by Hurston, “The Bone of Contention.” The story and the language, written in the southern dialect of her better known novel, Their Eyes Were Watching God, and the folklore she collected as an ethnologist working under Franz Boas.
Hughes and Hurston wanted to write it, in part, as a reaction to Shuffle Along: The 1921 Broadway Musical: Complete Libretto, Porgy and other plays of its time, written by whites, about the black experience.
After writing the play, Hurston and Hughes fell out.
The actual play and short story on which it was based took up only 120 pages of the book and it was great.
The remainder of the book was various accounts and interpretations of the 1930-1931 creative process and ultimate falling out between the two authors.
Another fascinating part of the supplementary material was the collected correspondence between the authors and each other, their lawyers, etc.
While this book consisted of two distinct parts (the actual story and the supplementary non-fiction information, each justifying a 5-star rating), it is the rare reader who would expect to indulge in both at one sitting.
This is the play that nearly erased an amazing writer's name from history. The thoughts and wordplay are a sheer delight!
It was really interesting to read the progression of this play-from folk tale, to short story, to play, to controversy. I appreciated the inclusion of correspondence from Hughes and Hurston to various players in this situation. However, the details did get repetitive between the accounts from Hughes' autobiography and biography, Hurston's biography, the letters, and the front matter (introduction, essays). Some of the same quotes were used 3-4 times.
I liked that this book taught me so much more about the Harlem Renaissance, Zora Neale Hurston and Langston Hughes. That being said it was not a great read. I think I would have liked seeing the play
Zora Neale Hurston, not only comments on Hughes' controversial biogrpahy as depicted within Hughes' comedic play, "Mule Bone", she also has one of her own short stories within.Some truly orginal funny bits in this first and only Black Comedy, that NEVER got off the ground.
Unfortunately, these two collaborating artists, Hughes and Hurston got into a little squabble and miscommunications that ended what could've been one of the greatest theatrical teams of the last century.
This book includes, "The Bone of Contention", by Hurston, all the nit-pickings and correspondences in Hughes's autobio pic, 
by, Zora Neale HurstonFunny PlayI really got a kick out of this play.
Sure seemed like she was back woods Florida and this play!Zora Neale’s characters are real.
I laughed out loud while reading; “Yo head look like it done wore out three bodies.
One was about the rivalry of the Methodist and the Baptist in this small town.
Another was the rivalry between two young men over the town “hussey”.
The ending was disappointing; I wanted it to go on, but it looked as though the whole town was ready to come to blows and my imagination needed to do something..

Some of it was funny. For the most part, it was difficult to read, I will admit - deciphering the slang took me a minute. The fighting really turned me off. Maybe if I'd read this at a different point in my life, I would have liked it more. Not a fan of stereotypes... And this story was chock-full of them.
Interesting historical account of a collaboration that could have produced a classic play, but because of a quarrel the play was never seen. Lots of good research and details, more than I really needed. The Harlem Renaissance - what a time that must have been. The "patron" was the person I most despised in the whole affair.
The play is delightful, and the letters detailing the controversy surrounding it, which are included in this edition, are quite interesting.More detailed blog review
A cornerstone of the Harlem Renaissance, even though it was never performed during that historical time period. Regardless, the riff it caused between Hughes and Zora Neale Hurston is a piece of literary history worth learning about.
This was good fun to read, a very entertaining short play that I found on the Gutenberg Project online. But, two stars because, it was just that, merely a short play and doesn't really go anywhere significant. For what it is, it has divine moments given by the two authors....
i just binged read everything she wrote. she has only 2 stories. the story of her hometown and the story of her family. although always well written. ... it's still the same 2 stories. this was my last book of hers to read and I'm tired of these 2 stories
Reading about the historic fight between Hurston and Hughes was really interesting. The play was good in that context.
I started reading it before but got sidetracked. It was from the library so I returned. I do want to pick it up again though
To be honest, the fight between Hurston and Hughes was far more entertaining than the play.
Over rated
A view of irony I found interesting...
