https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/831635.Healthy_Sleep_Habits_Happy_Child
2) It's totally unclear where in the book there's actual practical information on how to help your child sleep.3) The author is strongly opinionated and has kind of a damning tone.
All the same, the book is chock full of research and data that can help you develop a more informed approach toward your child's sleep, and Weissbluth does present some great concepts.
A friend of mine actually figured out what the "program" or "plan" was (she winnowed it out from the rest of the book somehow).
He also has no issue with co-sleeping – he thinks you have to find whatever sleeping situation works best for your family.
He's so open-minded and tries to provide information for so many different situations (like if a parent has many support resources, or very few) because he recognizes that each family and child are different – but this is exactly why he is so misunderstood and why the book is so hard to read!
We ended up doing a mixture of things he suggested until we found what worked.
In my opinion, the author has a "do or die" approach, like if you don't help your child sleep better NOW and in his (the author's) way, he/she is going to suffer for it for the rest of their lives.
It made me feel guilty as a parent for not doing everything he says, like I'm harming my child, which I know I'm not.
There are lots of books and ideas out there for sleep issues: there is no right or wrong way to help your child sleep.
I think this book helps a lot of people, and that's great, but it's not the end-all, be-all of sleep solutions.
The concepts are fairly sound and it is helping me get my 3 month on a napping schedule that will help him grow and be happy.
I give it two stars because the book repeats itself over and over and over.
Chapter 3: How to deal with difficult babies, and other sleep issues.
2. Encouraging longer naps during the day (This was a revelation that goes against common sense, and has really helped him sleep better overall.)3.
I feel like the book helped me understand the importance of structure.
The concepts are helping us develop good habits for the future.
This book makes me feel like a failure as a parent when my child has sleep issues.
Several times when we have encountered a new sleep issue with Nora, I go back to this book, hoping that he'll have some good advice.
We are currently trying his "sleep rules" approach to deal with her getting out of bed a thousand times a night, with some success, but I think it has more to do with the holidays winding down and getting used to the baby than it does with the "sleep rules." I just picked up The No-Cry Sleep Solution from the library and I like it a lot better already.
Mostly because the author admits that there are different approaches that can work depending on your child and your parenting style.
If you're looking for a book of hints on getting your child to sleep, this isn't it - the title is misleading.
If you're totally on board with Babywise or Dr Sears, you will probably not love Weissbluth's advice, but if you're more middle-of-the road (like me) this has a ton of good information that is adaptable for different families without insisting on a moral path.
What he is most insistent on is that children - and their parents - get the sleep they need.
If your method is not getting you baby good sleep, he's pushing you to change it.
I feel like all the books say the same thing in different ways and then sell it as the ONLY thing that works.
The funniest thing is that they also seem to say that if you pay attention to your child you will notice patterns and respond according to your best instincts.
Pay attention to what your child needs.
I feel like most of these books are written to make mothers/parents feel bad, especially if you are breastfeeding.
I will admit that it has helped to have my husband help some at night so that she is learning to feed a bit less.
What a lifesaving book!Like many first-time parents, I started off pretty darn ignorant.
I knew something had to be done when I realized he hardly smiled or giggled at all.I researched different sleep-training books and liked the reviews from Amazon.com on this one, so I bought it.I recommend you read it with a highlighter and mark everything you want to be able to easily find again.
I applied everything from the book except ONE thing: sleeping through the entire night without a bottle (or nursing).
Brady got to a point where he was taking two long naps a day and sleeping all night...
Then when I weaned him at 14 months, I gave him a bottle each night.
It has worked wonders in our family.
For the first four months, definitely go to Dr. Harvey Karp's "The Happiest Baby on the Block," which is astoundingly good--and I recommend the DVD more than the book.Dr. W is extremely knowledgeable about sleep patterns and methods.
Each parent has to decide for him/herself what is best, and I've had friends who have been totally fine with CIO and it works for them, although it won't work well for my intense little fellow....not at this point anyhow.This is a good book because it really emphasizes how important healthy sleep is.
I swear this is the book that saved my life and now has me pregnant for the third time.
Sleeping babies are the best babies ever, and this book teaches parents how to make sure their kids get all the sleep they need, how to get them to sleep, details on how much, napping, falling asleep in cars, etc - I still read it for my 3 year old and review it for my 1yr old...plus it has tips all the way to to the teen years.
The author was my nephew's pediatrician, and his mom gave me the book as a baby present, best gift ever!
This is the most amazing sleep book ever written. I read it with my first and it is a miracle! It totally teaches you how to train your kids to sleep. I refreshed my memory and re-read parts of it with our second and it still worked wonders. Every parent of a newborn should read this. You'll never regret that you did!
The idea that children don’t sleep as well when they’re overtired has been a guiding principle for us, and has served us well.
(You can skip those pages, there was nothing of value in there.)I have struggled to stifle my anger at his approach to me—the reader he assumes is selfish and unreasonable, although he’s never met me--so that I can glean from him whatever he has that will work for my child.Let’s face it, no two children respond exactly the same way, and so any book about raising children should offer suggestions and teach principles, realizing this won’t work every time.
I read this book on the recommendation of several people and many mommies swear by it.
For me this book can be explained in a nutshell that doesn't need 400 pages: babies need lots and lots of sleep, yours probably isn't getting enough, let your baby cry it out for up to 45 minutes at naptime, unlimted crying at night time.
Why I really gave it only two stars is because the author makes annoying and unsubstantiated claims that are not easy to swallow.
For example, if your baby gets too little sleep then he/she could develop ADD later on.
On to others: The good doctor actually says: "Sleep and wake states are different but not opposite." I don't think he realizes what "opposite" means.
The doctor's solution for everything is more sleep -- putting to bed earlier at night, leaving baby in the crib longer in the morning, NEVER waking a sleeping baby -- except when you should.
But in the extremely unfathomable event that the baby is actually getting enough sleep, you will know because “It is clear you have reached a too-early bedtime because your child no longer easily and promptly falls asleep.” I thought that was the sign for a too-late bedtime?
I have mixed feeling about this book, but overall it is fabulous and I'm very glad that I read it.The Good: I understand why this book has been referred to as the "sleep bible." After finishing this book, I feel like I no longer have any questions about what normal sleep should look like for my child and how to best go about teaching her to sleep.
Chapter four in particular, titled "Sleep Extreme Fussiness/Colic, and Temperament," really got on my nerves.
Now, I like knowing that the advice I'm being given is founded in actual studies and has proven results, but I'm reading the book to learn how to give my child good sleep habits.
He goes into depth about normal baby sleep cycles and offers strategies to help exhausted parents for nearly every complaint they may have.
If you are looking for a "what the heck do I do now" step by step instruction manual, this is not it.I have an issue with sleep books in general and it is that there's no "typical" child, and there are good nights and bad nights for everybody.
My spirited baby has her own way, and the only thing I can say to tired parents is - read all the sleep books, and choose what works for you.
I, too, didn't know that a baby could need to go to sleep an hour after waking -- that alone was worth reading the book.
Once I tried putting her down after an hour of awake time, it made a huge difference!
But, like any advice you get (whether from a book or a fellow parent), take it all with a grain of salt -- and realize that it may not work for your unique little one.
If this happens, move on and try something new, until you find something that works for your family.
Trying to do a sleep schedule AND stop nursing before sleep was too much for my baby.
This has made a huge difference for my baby and gotten him on the recommended sleep schedule- wake up at 7, nap at 9, nap at 1, bed by 7.
Love it!!What I didn't like:The book is way too long for a sleep-deprived parent.
He makes you feel like your kid is going to be screwed up forever if you don't get them sleeping, which is kind of traumatizing when you are already stressed out and sleep-deprived.
Obviously, you are trying to help them sleep more or you wouldn't be reading the book!
I never read it since our previous foster children didn't seem to have sleep issues.
Now that we have a newborn and toddler and scheduling them can be difficult - I gave it a shot.
Within days we had a better sleep schedule for both children!
We didn't even realize the toddler had sleep issues.
We were told he was just a handful, difficult, and extra cranky cause he didn't nap well.
Now that I tried some of the tips in the book he hardly cries at all!
He is now 4 months old and had 2-3 naps during the day and sleeps all through the night.
Although the writing feels confused and hodgepodge-y throughout, Weissbluth provides concrete information and advice on how to help your child sleep well, especially for first-time parents.
I followed the author's suggestion of reading certain chapters while pregnant and felt like I had a good handle on what to expect and how to help with regards to sleeping when my daughter was born.
Now, I often refer to the book's month by month guide on how parents can help their children establish healthy sleep habits.
With the help of this resource, our four-month-old daughter sleeps through the night, is beginning to organize her daytime naps and is all smiles when awake.
How you rate this book will depend upon your need.
If you are reading for knowledge, this book is incredibly enlightening.
If you are a tired parent looking for solutions, the research and analytical stuff with bog you down and irritate you.
But Dr. Weissbluth does offer solutions to problems.
After reading about half of the book, I had put it down for a while and then hit a patch of night waking with my son.
There is something for every parent in this book, although you may not need to read it cover to cover.
I am currently re-reading this book since I have a newborn again. With my first baby, I didn't find out about this book until she was 8 months old, and it was a life saver! But the sleep training was brutal, though absolutely worth it! She started going to bed at 6p and sleeping through the night! Now she's 3 and still goes to bed by 7:30p without any trouble. I am hoping that starting out from the begining with my newborn will be a little easier.
This book was a life-changer for my husband and me when our daughter turned 4 months old, and we started working on self-soothing and sleep strategies with her.
I did not read the book in entirety (reading only the intro chapters and the ones relevant to her age), but Weissbluth provided good information and many strategies for helping our little girl sleep better and learn to fall asleep on her own.
or a better one if he has one.
2) Information is sometimes kind of confusing to find in the book even with a lengthy index.
В общем, это, конечно, всё очень интересно, но смысла кроме "надо спать, а не спать не надо" я извлечь не смогла.И практических советов касательно моей трёхмесячной плюшки тоже.
This book changed our lives! The advice was critical to really help our baby to become a good sleeper. We buy this for every baby shower now!
I had a couple different MD's recommend this book to me so I wanted really badly for it to be the sleep bible everyone says it is.
I lived in constant frustration thinking I had just missed the perfect time for my child to sleep.
He also places blame directly and unabashedly on the parent's shoulders for any sleep issues the child has, exacerbating the anxiety you feel over this unknown perfect sleep moment you should be looking for.
I never knew what was "wrong" with my child.
The cover of the book says a step-by-step guide to a good nights sleep or something.
My daughter had gotten to a point where she would not fall asleep unless it was or or next to me.
I read a few books - all that I could find time for with a fairly cranky daughter around - but nothing was really working.
This book was full of science (not too much as to be overwhealming!) that helped me to know just how much sleep my daughter needed and to realized that the less sleep she got, the less sleep she would get.
I would recommend this book to EVERY parent whether you are having sleep problems or not.
I really liked this book. Not only does it suggest a method for making sure your children get enough sleep, it provides the reader with lots of information about the importance of sleep and backs everything up with academic studies. I liked that the author had done his own research and had lots of experience with different families through his practice. I also liked that the author is open to other methods and doesn't condemn any one because he is aware that different children have different temperaments and thus different needs.
This book provides some idea of what sleep patterns may look like for your baby but it also provides fuel for the longest guilt trip you will take as a parent. His guilt-inducing chapters include boxed warnings indicating that you could ruin your child with botched sleep and long winded explanations of anecdotal research supporting his stance. If you are a sleep deprived parent trying to find answers, look elsewhere lest you lose more sleep trying to read through verbose chapters and then squandering restful moments worried that you've already screwed up.
The book is a little hard to navigate, but there is some really helpful information in here. I like how he divides the book into age-specific chapters. It's nice to go straight to the chapter relevant to your child to get a sense of what sleep patterns are healthy for that age. His suggestion to always soothe a newborn to sleep within one to two hours of wakefulness was so helpful - it really cut down on cranky periods. The idea that more sleep = more sleep was counterintuitive at first, but after trying it out I'm a believer.
