https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11779.Them
For instance Maureen at age 16, having had NO boyfriends and ZERO sexual experience, becomes a kind of hooker for a while, accepting lifts from guys and sleeping with them for money in motels.
It didn't seem real at all, but of course the point of "them" the novel is that it's not actually fiction, it's all entirely true.
The truth is stranger than fiction, JCO may say, but I think it is incumbent on JCO to offer SOME interpretation instead of just kind of shrugging and moving on breathlessly to the next weird thing.
Loretta Wendall is the family's crude, optimistic matriarch; her children Maureen and Jules struggle to fashion lives for themselves, against the odds, in a rapidly changing America.them is not a for readers seeking warm, sympathetic characters or spiritual uplift; it's quite an ugly book, though a fascinating and compelling one.
You never exactly care for Loretta, Maureen, or Jules, but you sure want to see what happens to them.And oh the things that happen.
But Oates taps into so many highly charged currents—the violence of American life, the powerlessness of women in society, the inevitable disillusionments of growing up—that the reader can never quite write them off as just a crackpot soap opera.
These people are constantly surrounded by a world that mystifies them, and they seem unable to remember things like where they were earlier in the day, who they are talking to, or (hilariously) how to park a car (as we see Jules "manage" to park a car a dozen or more times, each time referred to with the verb "manage").
Do they remember that they HAVE teeth?This is the kind of book that has passages (my own, invented) like this: "She heard him saying something to her and strained to listen, listening through the hazy shapes she saw surrounding him.
The government in Washington was like a net set up not ten feet below them, to save them.'By and large, Jules and Maureen are symbols of the male-female dichotomy of 40s-60s America.
Jules is a character constantly reinventing himself (much like his namesake, Julien Sorel, of The Red and the Black) but Detroit can only offer so much...
Oates pays less attention to Betty, and in effect she remains a sort of newspaper headline--*YOUTH ROBS ELDERLY* type thing.Jules' salvation eventually comes by way of removing himself from Detroit and reinventing himself completely in California under the wing of someone else's revolution.
A searing and complicated look at the (de?)evolution of a family stricken by poverty and the loveless underbelly of the American Dream, them earned Joyce Carol Oates the National Book Award in 1970, and rightfully so. Readers expecting easily likable characters and neat resolutions need not apply — this is a big novel with something worthwhile to say. JCO herself says this is one of the books she feels she will be remembered for having written. This challenging, and honest, look at the lower class dealing with woes of all sorts, is worth the hype. A masterpiece.
She's taken modern icons and major headlines, from the life of Marilyn Monroe and Ted Kennedy to the race riots of the sixties, but mainly she's gone behind the scenes of peoples' private lives, to illustrate through literally hundreds of short stories and dozens of novels her breadth and scope of knowledge and attention to the most important issues, public and private, of our times.This book stands out among the many I've read.
You might think, with her astounding number of publications, some under pseudonyms (she also writes mysteries and books for young adults and children!)that her attention might flag, that she might get sloppy.No, never.
Them spans two generations of a family who longs for better things, but can't make a more peaceful, healthy, affluent life happen.
Oates starts with Loretta as an optimistic teen stuck caring for her alcoholic father and older brother, working at a dry cleaners.
She really breaks your heart by getting you to feel her young character's yearning for a better life, then showing how they get sucked into prostitution, pimping, drug use, abusive relationships, and have no mentors to show them how to break free of this cycle.
What kept me engaged through this tough story was Oates' elegant writing.
Whenever readers complain (based on what they've heard, or whatever) that the novels of Joyce Carol Oates are too non-realistic or stylized, I immediately recommend THEM to them.
This starkly realistic, almost naturalistic early novel (1969) is set in working-class Detroit from the depression to the race riots of 1967.
I've read it twice (third read coming up) and am always impressed by the power of the narrative and the sympathy I feel for the book's heroine.
This is the 3rd novel in the quartet of the Wonderland Series, and not having read the other books, I was unsure as to whether I would be able to pick this up and "catch on".
You can read this book and not have ever even heard of the others and still enjoy it on its own!
She takes you back to the 5o's in Detroit and lets you see and feel how it was to be poor and struggling in those days.
It's about race, class, family, love, urban life, marriage, women, the shebang!
I thought this book was great...
The further in I got, the less I could stand it.
Even the characters seem to grow weary of it, muddling through their adult lives in a total stupor.
At about page 245 things took a turn for the worse.
Who wants to read page after page of two boring, half-asleep characters going through mysterious '60s-style sex scenes?
I struggled through 30 or so pages of utter crap just to see if there was a light at the end of the tunnel.
Why did I read so much of this book?
This is probably the best book I've ever read. The book is long (508 pages) and the story is thick. The lives of Loretta, Maureen, and Jules all take unexpected, yet somewhat expected turns throughout their trying lives. It can be depressing at times but there is always hope for redemption, even though it's unclear what, if any, comes. You won't be disappointed with "Them" and I can't wait to read more of her books.
Joyce Carol Oates is the Tom Waits of highbrow pulp fiction.My friend Jonathan Kotulski made the above statement, mostly in jest I think, during a recent phone conversation.We had been talking about Kafka, Musil, Borges, and David Foster Wallace, then I mentioned that I was still feverishly reading novels and short stories by Joyce Carol Oates, and that I didn't completely understand why.
The Tom Waits comparison came from the fact that she has produced a huge catalog, and managed to stay consistently challenging over the course of several decades.My most recent JCO book is actually one of her earlier works.
she was pleased, startled, excited to know that this was real, the world of this novel.""She could draw near to a man and through half-closed eyes assess him, never really looking at him; it was a feeling in her blood.""There were certain cycles to go through.
The cycle had begun when he had opened the door of his car for her, and in a minute or two it would end with his sudden paralyzed tension, his broken breath against her face, the familiar urgent signs of a man's love.""With you, Jules, I can't think of my life or remember what it is.
One of those books that literally changed the way I saw the world, at least for a little while, maybe longer (and I mean literally - I looked at everything differently with my eyeballs, with different care and intent).
We were using the bus because we were poor college students, but our lives were going to be pretty good.
I found myself really noticing everyone else around me, and thinking about them, and understanding how specific markers of their appearances could be tweaked and would completely alter my perception of whether or not they were good looking or smart or someone I wanted to be around.
I made it about 200 pages into this sucker (it's a big book). Her writing is beautiful, which is why I was determined to keep reading. But then I was forced to put the book down for an entire (crazy) weekend, and by Monday I realized that I just didn't care. I had no emotional attachment to any of the characters (who are all incredibly dysfunctional). I just can't see what would possibly be in the next hundreds of pages except more pointless dysfunction and strangely stoic sexual encounters. Not worth it.
A friend gave me this book when I took my first college position at a community College. It's a very insightful book about those we seek to educate.
Everything feels real to me--and that's saying a lot since these characters are so hard to believe, extremely dysfunctional, sociopaths, even crazy.
On the second reading, I appreciated more of the characters and who they were and who they were was so intertwined with the world they came from.
Despite its darkness and its bleakness and its crazyness, I discovered on this reading that when the shock wears off you can see tiny shafts of light in this dark portrait Oates has painted.
It came to me as a tragic story illuminated.
Oates builds him up as a character with the potential to rise above her terrible image of Detroit's poverty...and then lets us down by letting him fail, again and again.Jules almost loses his life because of love.
By far the most bizarre sequences in the novel are the ones where he interacts with the love of his life, Nadine.
The reader isn't sure whether she survived, though at the end of the book, Jules says that he is going to marry Nadine.
A startling book in its lack of plot cohesion, but offering some really powerful sections on life, love, and family.
I’d say this also has the finest and most chilling little vignette of racism I think have ever come across in fiction.
It’s kind of brilliantly insidious: superficially we’re seeing fraternising of white cop and a poor black man, but we’re really seeing a victim, with no dignity, being laughed at.
The afterthought and forward is also interesting in what it’s trying to do (now looking a little clunky).
This was the first time I’d read a modern –ish novel starring the author and didn’t feel that it was a bit of a stunt (cf Paul Auster).
I thought it only fair that since I have read a gazillion books in my life time, it would make sense to finally get around to reading Joyce Carol Oates, who has written a gazillion books.
So I thought I would start with "Them", which won the National Book Award in the early 70s.
Oates seems to have contempt for everyone in the book, especially blacks and it was unclear if her bias was reflective of her characters' fear of them or her own.
I really, really, really want to like your books because they always sound so interesting, but then I start reading them and have to wonder what it is you're smoking when you write them.
Maybe you write for a higher literary plane than the one I inhabit; maybe what you write is your inside joke, laughing as the NY Times and other highly acclaimed book review publications pronounce your latest novel a "breathtaking tour de force from a bona fide literary genuis", despite the fact that the reviewer probably is just as confused by your writing as the average person on the street.
And the characters...was I supposed to like them or hate them?
1-2 pages of characters saying anguished I love yous would convey the insanity of a relationship as well as the 10 or 20 Oates uses.
I would think "I get your point," and still have pages and pages of the same to wade through.I only stuck this out because it's part -- the very first part, in fact -- of my plan to read a National Book or Pulitzer Prize winner from each year of my life between now and when I turn 50 in 2019.
I'm still scratching my head that this was the National Book Award winner for 1970.
Part of this is probably because I read most of it while I was a little out of it over the weekend, due to my poor (nonexistent?) ability to deal with the humidity & heat down here.
I probably owe it a re-read someday.Anyway, this is the third book in Oates' Wonderland series.
A lot of the book reads like a fever dream (which is heightened if you are kind of out of it due to the heat & humidity and need of a good night's sleep -- very weird experience), especially passages from Jules' point of view.
A masterpiece. More controlled than some of Oates's later work, although this book could have been trimmed without harming it, especially at the end. I was totally immersed in the lives of Loretta and her family as they experience decades of life in Detroit, the city coming alive through the words.
Very close to 5 stars for me.
Nothing happened but anything might.""She stared at these pictures, aware of having failed though she was still young; her failure was tied up somehow with her being unable to sleep.
She would not grow up into a normal woman: something would catch her and hold her back, some snag, some failure to have dreamed her way out of childhood.""'.
A shot had rung out, a bullet had crashed through the window and gone into a wall, and nothing else--some screaming, some alarm, but nothing else.
He had no idea what it could be."And in closing, you know what they say: "Fire burns and does its duty."
Ms. Oates follows the lives of a family -- mother, daughter and son -- living in poverty in urban Detroit in the fifties and sixties.
Based, according to her, on actual events, the book chronicles the traumatic lives they led, with what, to me at least, is an excess of imaginative reconstruction of nearly every thought these individuals must have had while the events were transpiring.
Or maybe I should say MIGHT have had, because no matter how much Ms. Oates knew about them, she still would have had to make up about 95 % of what she wrote.
I've been trying to work my way through all of the National Book Award Fiction winners and was glad to have a reason to read this novel.I had a difficult time getting into the book and almost gave up after 30 or so pages, feeling unconnected with any of the characters.
You get the bumps, warts, troubles, and successes of all.It's great to read a novel that focuses on the troubles of a working-class family.
The language that Oates uses in the novel is stark and direct.
After the first 30 or so pages, the novel reads quickly with lots of interesting threads and plot twists and turns.
This s a 3rd of a quartet of novels written by Joyce Carol Oates in the 1960s and are based on issues of racism and poverty in Detroit, Michigan.
Joyce Carol Oates lived in this region for many years, moving to Canada after the 1967 riots.
The 1967 race riots in Detroit provided the backdrop to the final scenes where the hero, Jules Wendell, rises from a drug stupor and finds a way to move to California as he had always planned.
The "them" in the novel plays out in different ways because there is always a "them." Loved the book and plan to read the entire quartet.
Joyce Carol Oates is an author I have come to love.
I start to read one of her books and I cannot stop.
I fall into her stories, her characters, her narrative.
This book is no different.
The author gives us a lot of inner dialogue, and I wonder, does she think everyone is insane?
Is everyone insane?
The only reason I did not give it 5 stars is that the love stuff was a little ick, but that could be me.
I am often made sick by literary explanations of new love.
