https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29589074-truly-devious
🌟 full review now posted here on my blog 🌟I CAN’T BELIEVE MY DUMB ASS FINISHED THIS BOOK IN ONE SITTING WHY THE FUCK DID I DO THAAAAAT AM I SUPPOSE TO wAiT NOW??????? FOR ANOTHER MONTH?????????? disgusting
I can’t really feel out his character at this point, but I did enjoy him more towards the ending and I’m hopeful he’ll grown on me more in the future.I am not a huge fan of dual timeline books where it jumps from present to past with a completely different set of characters, but it worked well for this book.
It does not feel “info-dumpy”, rather, it is like reading two mysteries unfolding at once.I adore the mystery of the story.
I am anxiously anticipating book two and am extremely hopeful that things will be nonstop action from here.Truly Devious is truly amazing.
Um what?!?! I need book 2 right now. The end was such a teaser, things were just starting to come together. I need answers! Haha
i swear, there is no better feeling in the world than getting to a big reveal in a murder mystery and being able to shout, ‘I KNEW IT!’maybe that makes the story too predictable and easy, but wow, what a confidence boost and what an enjoyable book!
the story had a very easy going and game-like feel to it.
this was also a slow burn mystery (nothing really happens until about halfway in), but it was done in a really effective way where you didnt feel like the story was dragging.
i was impressed and cant wait for the story to continue!
That cliffhanger though.
The plot sounds great Stevie is a True Crime fanatic (something we share in common) who's bookcase is filled with the great detective novels, such as Sherlock and Poirot.
It felt like both mysteries were B-Plots though.
Truly Devious spends way more time on teen angst then on the murder mysteries that the book is allegedly about.
I know what you're thinking It sounds like you hated this book, then why the 3.5 star rating?
The way Stevie described how an anxiety or panic attack feels is the way they described them.
So for that alone I really enjoyed reading this book.
I’ve tried this one on three separate occasions and it’s just not working for me. I think it’s just my fault and not the book’s; I’m not connecting and keep putting it down to read other things. On to the next!
I didn't know this would have a sequel I AM SHOOK. With most books that switch back and forth between timelines, there is usually one I like more than the other. That wasn't the case here. Between present day and the past, we were presented TWO intriguing murder mysteries to solve. Though I didn't love the conclusion here and felt we weren't exactly given enough clues to solve the present day mystery until the very end, I literally gasped out loud no less than three times while reading, and that's for sure a five star book to me.
Schools may be famous for many things: academics, graduates, sports teams.They are not supposed to be famous for murders. Albert Ellingham created a school that knows no limits. He wanted learning to be a game for those who attended. Tuition is free and everyone learns at their own pace. It's a dream for anyone to attend. Although, shortly after it opened, Ellingham's wife and daughter were kidnapped and never found. A mysterious riddle listing ways to murder had appeared a week prior signed on
Things are still up in the air waiting to be solved.I prefer my mysteries to have some sort of conclusion, but this book is clearly the first of a series (as of right now, a trilogy).
Also being a bit of a character within the novel as an extension of Albert Ellingham and the kind of person he was loving puzzles and games, so of course the boarding school grounds have hidden nooks, tunnels, hiding spots and is a maze in and of itself.I'm torn on if I liked this enough or am more bothered by the way the novels are split up.
this one kind of changed my mind about her.basic premise is that a wealthy 1930s tycoon starts a free school for children in the mountains of vermont where he also hosts small but lavish gatherings with the rich and famous.
present day true crime lover stevie gets into this free school for kids and decides to solve the mystery.but it's not really that simple.
and i like that the present day murder is still unsolved, along with the past mystery.the only thing that i didn't love, actually (lol wow that's bad shhh), was stevie herself.
THIS WAS GOODTHIS WAS REALLY GOODIM VERY MUCH IMPRESSED BY THIS BOOK AND ITS MYSTERY (especially since i literally went into this book knowing nothing about anything bc who reads the synopsis?? not me)AND I NEED BOOK 2 BECAUSE HOW DARE IT END LIKE THAT AND NOT GIVE ME THE ANSWERS I WANTED
I enjoyed this, but I feel like the audiobook was definitely the wrong way to go for me. It was too hard for me to keep details straight and I was mostly just confused. Definitely going to re-read this one in physical form before the next book comes out so I can be better prepared!
I really enjoyed Truly Devious, but it wasn’t a complete story. There’s not a single story arc in this book that comes to a conclusion, and that’s frustrating as hell. The book simply ends mid plot. I should have known better because the same thing happened with the Shades of London series.
UpdatedSo I've performed a fit of astonishing perseverance and read the whole book.
The main character is boring, the students are precocious and boring, they talk about boring things and they even romance each other in the most boring ways.
Jenny Han, Victoria Schwab and yes, Maureen Johnson.What is objectively annoying about this book though, is the ending, which there is none.
What's the point of reading the whole mystery book to just find out that you don't even have all basic facts to guess the murderer?
Which, to be fair, I can say about every Maureen Johnson work I've ever read.
I received an advanced reader copy via Edelweiss in exchange for an honest reviewWHAT DID I JUST READ?!
I’m so confused and kind of pissed off.
What did I just read?
Was I truly waiting for a semi-decent conclusion when all I got was a “to be continued”?
I get that it’s the first in a series, but seriously, what the actual living f*%# did I read?
At least give us a decent conclusion!
I feel so cheated.
I feel so damn cheated right now.
Man. I’m going to bed, I don’t have any more patience for this.
Happy reading!
The setting and the characters were pretty interesting and definitely kept me turning the pages.
and I feel like I didn't really the answers I was hoping for.
I'm kind of pissed that I have to wait for the next book to see if I even get a glimpse of those answers.Speaking of characters, I loved Dottie, Stevie, and Nate.
I still feel like I didn't really know them that well.
People ending up dead basically everywhere and I instantly stopped trusting every damn character in this book.
I wanted answers people!
Overall, it was an interesting book and definitely a page turner.
It took me a whole to warm up to this murder mystery, but the ending is so danged good I can't wait for the second in the trilogy.
Why is everything a trilogy !!!??Teen super sleuth Stevie gets into the elite Bellingham Academy on her letter alone which is about how much she wants to solve crimes.
The school comes with its own kidnapping and murder and she knows all about it and wants to solve it.
4.5 starsI am a huge true crime fan, so I was all over this story.
Love love loved Stevie and this cast of characters.
The rest of the cast is just as equally intriguing and I immediately didn’t trust anyone.
It was an effective way to get the information without an info dump.
The story kept me guessing until the very end, which is when I nearly threw my kindle.
Everyone make way for an epic cliffhanger.
Overall, I enjoyed the story and the characters.
**Huge thanks to Katherine Tegen Books for providing the arc free of charge**
Being a true crime junkie, Stevie is set on solving the kidnapping of Mrs. Ellingham and her daughter Alice, which happened shortly after Albert Ellingham opened the school in 1936.
First though, she has to adapt to her new home and housemates, her work load and the apparent return of 'Truly Devious' (the person responsible for the Ellingham's unsolved crime).
A riddle signed by 'Truly Devious' is sent to the Ellingham's home and a few days later the wife and daughter dissapear, never to be seen again.
Stevie is confident that she can solve the crime until 'Truly Devious' strikes again.
Ughhhh cliffhangers are the worstI really enjoyed reading this, I have more questions than answers right now, and I need the next book ASAP pls I really loved the setting and Ellingham Academy and the flash backs were a brilliant touch!
Omg!!!!! So good. But the ending. Literally screaming out loud. My full review will be on my booktube channel at http://Youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
People say this is really good, it'd better be.I'm always a bit skeptical with murder mysteries because I usually guess the killer pretty early, but let's see how this one goes.
Look no further: Maureen Johnson’s TRULY DEVIOUS has all the Agatha Christie your heart could possibly desire.TRULY DEVIOUS opens in 1930s Vermont where magnate Arthur Ellingham owns a (free) exclusive private school.
However soon after opening, Arthur receives a threatening riddle signed “truly devious.” Later, his wife, daughter, and a student go missing.
The wife and student are found murdered, but daughter, Alice, is never found.
No sooner does Stevie settle into her new school when a  classmate is murdered.
She’s very much a parallel to mystery lover (and murdered student) Dottie.
SUMMARY: If you’re a mystery fan, definitely read this book.
3.5 stars. Was a solid 4 star book for me until that ending. Those last few pages will make it or break it for peopleWatch my full review: https://youtu.be/5rAqNG12JKM
This book was intriguing. That cliffhanger, though? Not so much a cliff as a gentle slope. (rtc)Blog ¦ Bloglovin’ ¦ Tumblr ¦ Instagram*me: I don’t read books with sequels that I’ll have to wait more than a year for, do I look like I enjoy torturing myself?me [actually holds book #1 in my hands]: … never mind.🔎 buddy read with 🤓
“There was something there. She could feel it.Stevie had no fears of the dead. The living, however, sometimes gave her the creeps.” this book took me so surprise! I rarely read mysteries/thrillers, not really sure why. They just never appeal to me. But Truly Devious caught my attention, because of it's focus on solving a complex true crime cold case, the Ellingham family murders. Set at the prestigious Ellingham Academy, true crime fan Stevie Bell comes to the academy, determined to solve the c
But Truly Devious caught my attention, because of it's focus on solving a complex true crime cold case, the Ellingham family murders.
Set at the prestigious Ellingham Academy, true crime fan Stevie Bell comes to the academy, determined to solve the cold case once and for all.
While I loved that it ended on a cliffhanger because I LOVE THEM, and I love that this set book two up so well, I also think more could have been done to wrap up some events and mysteries in THIS book.
So if you like true crime cold cases I recommend this (FELLOW BUZZFEED UNSOLVED FANS I KNOW YOU'RE OUT THERE)
What the actual f*** was this??? 😡😡😡😡 I wasted a whole night before an exam on this book which ended nowhere???? I'm pissed and I donot usually become pissed. 😤😤----------------------review to come if i survive my pissed-y state by passing my exam and gobbling a pound of chocolate cake
lol is this the longest synopsis ever????UPDATED: I think they shortened the synopsis a little? I read this and there were definitely things I enjoyed, like the whole Ellingham mystique. But I'm sort of concerned about where things are going. And that reveal at the end was not related to anything I thought it would be.Read ALL my thoughts here:  Jen Ryland Reviews Truly DeviousRead more of my reviews on JenRyland.com or check out my Bookstagram!I received a free advance copy of this book from the publisher for possible review.
A well-written mystery that clearly has more to offer, but chooses to unwisely save it for its subsequent sequels.
