https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/122405.Asterix_and_Caesar_s_Gift
Asterix and Caesar's Gift (Astérix #21), René Goscinny, Albert Uderzo
obelix = siege engine
Great fun reading this again for first time in nearly 40 years! A perfect light reading accompaniment to Lindsey Davis’s Didius Falco series, and I love the way the Asterix books have a really international following, as the reviews show.
Einem geschenkten Gaul......sollte man schon ins Maul schauen, besonders, wenn das Pferd einem von jemandem geschenkt wird, der einem nicht so ganz wohlgesonnen ist. Zwei Beispiele dafür: Das Holzpferd der Griechen. Und das Geschenk, das Julius Cäsar einem suffkopfigen Legionär zur Armeeentlassung übergibt. Beide Beschenkten hatten nicht viel Freude an dem Präsent.Die Idee ist hervorragend und witzig, an der Ausführung mangelt es etwas. Streitereien innerhalb des Dorfs sind inzwischen etwas abgenutzt, der Römer, der Zwietracht bei den Galliern sät, auch, den Streit zwischen Asterix und Obelix hatten wir auch schon. Für mich persönlich einer der schwächeren Bände der Reihe.
Der spannendste Part hier - die ersten Seiten, die Ausgangssituation - das im Titel enthaltene Geschenk Cäsars an einen Soldaten.
Dieses ist weniger eine Belohnung als ein Scherz, denn Cäsar schenkt dem Soldaten eine Parzelle, welche ihm gar nicht gehört - ein Haus inmitten des gallischen Dorfes, welches nie aufgehört ihm Widerstand zu leisten.
Das Geschenk wird von dem Soldaten weitergereicht und landet bei einem Wirten, der sogleich beschliesst mit seiner Familie dorthin zu ziehen.
Leichtfüssig und unterhaltsam kommen die Verwicklungen daher und bis zum Schluss fühlt sich der Leser angenehm durch die Geschichte geführt.
I LOVE the Asterix books!! There's simply nothing else to say, everything about them is amazing! This one is no exception. What I love about them is every time you read them you discover some new hidden message or appreciate a witty reference.
AWESOME!!! There is nothing that comes close to Asterix - I have the whole series, both on e-books and hard-copy and they are some of most treasured possessions. I grew up with them and they are simply the best!
Storia gradevole, buona parodia del mondo della politica.
Eğlenceliydi ama çok çabuk bitti :/
Kalo Asterix bacanya entah beberapa kali. Sampe bukunya lecek dan akhirnya di bundel supaya gak ilang2an. Komik terkeren sepanjang masa setelah Tintin.
Ενα κόμικ που έρχεται από παλιά, άντεξε στον χρόνο με αποτέλεσμα μέχρι και σήμερα να μας προσφέρει πινελιές γέλιου....
In this one, we learn that legionarys who have served in the Roman army for 20 years get a plot of land for their service. Ceasar gifts one drunken legionary our Gaulish village and he sells it for some wine. Chaos ensues as usual.The premise was excellent, only the plot rather fell apart as the book progressed.
Vähän erilainen tyyli kuin aiemmissa. Olikohan tässä joku pidempi tauko, vai olivatko tekijät vaan paremmalla mielellä, koska tässä oli ehkä hiukan enemmän hauskaa fiilistä ja tarinaakin. Ei pelkkää slap stickiä.
Is it a gift worth having?
very clever and enjoyable
Le Cadeau de César - René GoscinnyRating: ★★ 1/2Review coming soon!
Always a fun read.
He will receive his honorary discharge after all but Caesar has a "special" gift for him.In the ceremony itself every veteran smiles after receiving his land share in the form of stone tablets.
The laughing Caesar has just gifted the only territory of Gaul not yet conquered by the Roman legions, the village inhabited by Asterix and his friends.
Tremensdelirious has successfully exchanged his land share for a dinner and some wine.Soon enough Orthapedix, Angina and Influenza arrive at "their" new village..."Wiki Notes:"-The granting of land to Roman soldiers after their long years of service is historically true.
Anda à volta da disputa política, uma vez que a aldeia, é dada por Júlio César a um antigo legionário, bêbado todos os 20 anos que serviu, mais como castigo do que como prémio.
Entretanto o legionário quer recuperar a sua aldeia e por o estalajadeiro a negar, pede auxílio a um dos campos romanos.
Entretanto agecanonix também se pretende candidatar e acaba por arranjar como adepto Obélix pois este inicalmente adepto do estalajadeiro Ortopedix, voltou-lhe as costas porque a filha deste Coriza, ou melhor Zazá, mostrou uma predileção por astérix por este os ter defendido na estalagem do legionário bêbado.
Quand César fait un faux cadeau à un légionnaire aviné après 20 ans de carrière, ça vaut le détour.
Comme il a insulté Jules César, celui-ci le punit en lui offrant comme cadeau le fameux village des irréductibles Gaulois.
Celui-ci et sa famille vont prendre possession de leur biens...*Noms des personnages :Le nom du légionnaire Roméomontaigus est une référence à Roméo Montaigu, célèbre personnage de la pièce de William Shakespeare Roméo et Juliette.
Références :Page 27 de la case 5 à la case 8, une allusion est faite à Edmond Rostand et son célèbre personnage Cyrano de Bergerac, avec une adaptation de la tirade du nez.
Dans cette même page, une allusion est faite à Zorro lorsque Astérix trace un Z avec son glaive sur la tunique de Roméomontaigus.
A Roman legionary infamous for his drinking has finished his twenty years of service and is thus entitled to the customary reward of a plot of land.
Unfortunately, this man makes a number of crude remarks that can easily be interpreted as treasonous, and Julius Caesar, in one of his sadistic moods, rewards the man with an infamous plot of land that has yet to be conquered.
The man then ends up getting drunk at another bar, but has no money, and so uses the plot of land to pay for his drinks.
L'astuto Cesare ripaga il soldato scansafatiche e ubriacone Romeomontecchius donandogli, alla fine del servizio da legionario, un villaggio in Armorica. Il problema è che si tratta dell'unico pezzo di Gallia non sottomesso all'Impero Romano. Il soldato lo baratta con un oste in cambio di vino; questo è l'inizio di turbamenti al'interno del villaggio, visto che l'oste vuol diventarne il capo, sentendosi legittimo proprietario di un villaggio che in realtà non riconosce l'autorità di Cesare. In un tutti contro tutti, si scatena la baraonda tipica del popolo gallico, tra pozioni magiche, risse, cinghiali e romani
There's a Roman soldier who is a major drunkard and, while drunk, says something against Caesar.
Caesar finds out and gives the guy an entire village- the one Asterix and Obelix live in.
The soldier gets drunk again and uses the city to pay his bill at an inn.The innkeeper and his family move to the village and eventually get into an election battle with chief Vitalstatix.
While the villagers argue about who will be the chief, the Romans believe the Gauls have no more magic potion and the attack.
Getafix makes some potion just in time, though, and the Romans are defeated.Fairly funny.
Quale dono si può fare ad un legionario che, dopo vent'anni, non ha un perfetto stato di servizio?
La proprietà di un ridente villaggio in Armorica, è evidente!
E se poi questo legionario decidesse, tra i fumi dell'alcol, di pagare la sua sbronza all'oste proprio con quella proprietà?
Allora avreste tutte le premesse per uno dei migliori albi di Asterix.Goscinny e Uderzo, liberi dalle tempistiche di Pilote, sceneggiano e disegnano una divertentissima storia di equivoci, battibecchi, proprietá inesistenti e...campagne elettorali.Da segnalare la lotta all'arma bianca tra Asterix e il legionario, ispirata a Zorro e Cyrano, e il dibattito elettorale nella piazza del villaggio.
Asterix Caesar's Gift – big spoof of the political “silly season” as several candidates campaign to be the village’s next chief, sparked originally by Caesar’s mischievious deed of the village land to a no-account legionary (see also Asterix and the Great Divide)
I really like asterix, especially obelix (he is not fat, what a confident he has).This book tells us to fight whatever we had.
Don't give up easily.
But, most of all, friendship is number one.
The story began with a caesar's gift.
The Caesar gave the Gaul's village to the legioner that later he change the gift with drink.
the new owner came to the village to take his right, but of couse, the gauls laught at the gift, because their village is not part of caesar's region.
Here's the fight of right began and friendship is the important thing of all.
Funny facts:Cacofonix composes 'We shall overcome' for the election. Election bribery.Obelix and Influenza's date doesn't go according to the plan.The sword-fight of Asterix with a Roman Officer in Zorro's way.Geriatrix is Xenophobic. The manner of manner of electioneering is similar to the modern American presidential elections.Unhygienix's fish stock are put to question, finally! His last fish delivery is the previous summer! Not one of the best but good and funny.
This comic book is about Asterix and his friend Obelix. They go on many various adventure and do not see eye to eye on many important things throughout the comic. I still do not really enjoy reading comic and I find Asterix hard to follow. I think that the illustrations are funny and definitely help tell the story but they are rather busy. Recommended age 9-14Reading Level 4th-5th grade
Una avventura molto intelligente, tutta giocata sul nuovo arrivo al villaggio di un mercante, con moglie e figlia al seguito, di Lutezia che è stato pagato da un legionario ubriacone con il possesso di un villaggio sulla costa gallica. Immaginate quale villaggio!Decisamente piacevole e a tratti pure sorprendente.
This tale of a drunk being given the Gaulish village we all know and love is pretty entertaining with all the claims of Chieftainship being driven by the villagers' wives.
All Asterix books by Goscinny & Uderzo have been read aloud to me as a child and later reread by me. #childhoodmemories #childhoodfavourites #ohthefeels
Six out of ten. CBR format.When Caesar offers a loyal centurion the deed to Asterix's village as reward upon leaving the army, he doesn't realise quite what he is getting into.
No. Didn't think this is one of the best albums. I felt uncomfortable while I read it. Can't say why.
The problem with the caesar's gift cause untold grief to the Roman than to the Gaul as usual.
I have a feeling this was one of the very best ones, but I can't really remember.
Excellence itself.
brilliant
Classic!!
On a encore droit à un Astérix dans la moyenne. Au moins, cette fois-ci, il n'est pas question d'enlèvement ou d'otage. C'est surtout une histoire qui se passe à l'intérieur du village. Un romain reçoit comme cadeau de César le village d'Astérix. Pour de l'alcool, ce romain donne le village à un gaulois qui décide l'aller y vivre. Lorsque celui-ci veut devenir chef, la pagaille commence à s’installer.Une BD correcte.
The first comic book I read.
Après l'idée du Domaine des Dieux, René et Albert reviennent avec celle de pourrir la vie aux Gaulois en jouant d'un titre de propriété sans valeur. Ici les auteurs touchent à des valeurs éternelles et continuent à créer la légende d'Astérix. Ces personnages sont universels. Ils sont nous, mais en mieux, en beaucoup mieux. Ils sont laids, mais ils sont des mythes inaccessibles.
encore une perfide manoeuvre de César pour vaincre nos irréductibles gaulois.Evidemment, un malheureux hasard va faire capoter le projet, tout en plongeant tout de même le village dans la confusion.Un album qui joue beaucoup sur le rejet de l'étranger dans nos chers villages de France...
buku ini sebenernya lebih mahal daripada Smurf. Tapi kok cetakannya gak banget ya? kayak hasil foto copyan.Sayang... Aku pikir buku cacat, tapi pas di liat semua hasil cetakannya kayak gitu semua.Jadi kasih bintang 2 aja ah.. biarin aja dibilang gak objektif juga.
Caesar "Gift" is to jokingly give away the land rights to the Gaulish village (despite it not actually being conquered yet). Chaos ensues as new arrivals to the village create tensions amongst the Gauls. Excellent siege equipment in this one.
