https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238943.The_Enchanter
With his deft style, images come alive in ways that are both beautiful and disturbing; language is used not as a way to tell a story but to explain character.
Nabokov's The Enchanter (1939) tells a similar story and is considered an Ur-Lolita (Lolita would be published well over a decade later in 1955).
The opening line of The Enchanter asks, "How can I come to terms with myself?" The Enchanter is an interesting and thoughtful work which should appeal to those who want more insight into the author of Lolita; it also serves as a nice introduction for those who haven't read Nabokov before.
Like the back of the novel says, 'the Enchanter' is "the Ur-Lolita, the precursor to Nabokov's classic novel." A short, quick novella that flirts and throbs with similar themes as 'Lolita', but also a terrible infant work that explores the themes of maddness, indulgence, obsession and fantasy that Nabokov's novels like Despair and Pale Fire also explore.
A mad king who reigns in his lecherous and multi-level hell of his own impulses.
Distilled down, reading 'the Enchanter' is like eating powdered Nabokovian Jello out of the box.
The sweetness quickly disolves in your gut into clumpy images of boiled bones, connective tissues, and the intestines of small, lecherous dead animals.
The Enchanter is the blueprint for Lolita, there’s no dancing around that fact.
The story concerns a middle-aged man-of-private-means who falls for a twelve-year-old nymphet and marries her unappealing mother, later bumping her off to satisfy his crazed libido.
The slinky prose wonderment of Lolita is here in miniature too, minus the distinctive lyricism of HH and pervading darkly comedic tone.
In true [P] style, all that remains is to tell a 2000-word anecdote about my early years and in some wildly tangential way try to relate it to the novella.
Try this on for size.
The Enchanter was rubbed out as the glimpse out of the first eye on the mother and the second on the bequest of a very small person.
So I have a name in doubt and no quotes but I have a memory like an idea of a rehearsed ballet performance before I float off into my own movements.
Images of what desire must feel like and no life in my limbs.
It's some kind of image, a show.Before The Enchanter I read Nabokov's last novel the satire of himself Look at the Harlequins!
You can't help but wonder what Nabokov Sr. would have done with it had he been the one to translate it to English, and you also can't help but wonder (and maybe draw some conclusions as to) why he didn't.
Or instead you may say to me from your grave, "But I did translate it.
Into one of the greatest novels ever composed in the English language.
Happy now, dumb-ass?" Definitely my least favorite of his so far, but still, it's Nabokov; you could do worse a million times over.
Yes, it’s the original Russian kernel of that other book, but besides the above and approximately ten other plot points we’re talking different games altogether.Or you could make a case below this review that Nabokov had an unusual tendency to write about pre-pubescent gals.
To which I say he had an unusual tendency to write about butterflies and chess as well.
And then go write a review of how sick The Enchanter made you, if only to spare others the same assault against all that is good and pure and virginal in this world.
Seeing as Lolita is one of my favourite books of all-time, I couldn't wait to check out Nabokov's almost precursor to the classic novel.
The way in which he weaves his spider's web around the young girl he becomes obsessed with and her mother is perfectly devious, and I loved waiting for him to constantly trip up or get caught.Nabokov's writing is as usual on point and a joy to read, even with the disturbing subject matter.
If you're a fan of Lolita or Nabokov's work in general, I'd definitely recommend checking this out.
5 stars for a book whose margins are now filled by my insightful literary analyses reading "creepy," "disturbing," "ewwwww," "gross," and even "that's really fucked up." This is the first half of Lolita in the making--no mere similarities, but exactly.
Using such a term to describe Humbert Humbert is almost as unnerving and uncomfortable as following either character's perverse obsessions: and it is the book's power to so upset emotions (quite literally upset) that makes it 5 stars.Disturbing Quotation: "he might be rewarded by...meld[ing] the wave of fatherhood with the wave of sexual love" (31).
Este conto seria um esboço de Lolita, escrito em 1955, com o qual tem algumas semelhanças no enredo: um homem de quarenta anos obcecado por uma menina de doze.
Na verdade, o que mais me incomodou nesta história não foi a paixão do pedófilo (que Nabokov fez questão de torturar e castigar) mas a menina ser tratada, pela mãe, como um empecilho e ter de viver com estranhos.
Esta edição inclui um comentário de Dimitri Nabokov onde, além de falar sobre o conto, demonstra a falsidade de terem atribuído a Vladimir Nabokov a autoria da obra Romance Com Cocaína.

Но това се оказа само началото и после повествованието продължи от името на разказвач – който се справя перфектно.И друг път за подобни книги (12-40; 16-45) съм казвала – сигурно щях да мисля малко пó иначе, ако имах дъщеря (още по-категорично отрицателно).
Освен „Лолита“ искам и други негови книги да прочета, не знам какви още има, но дори да са на сходна тема, сигурно пак ще ме държи здраво най-малкото заради езика си.
Преводът на Иглика Василева е зашеметяващ, как може да играе с езика така, че да го накара да се лее като река - неспирен и буен, когато трябва и леко и ненарушимо плавно, докато картината, която читателят трябва да види, не изникне пред очите му по-ясна от реалността.Бях впечатлена от тази кратка новела, която казват, предшествала "Лолита" и поставила основите на така добре познатия ни роман.
Съгласна съм обаче и с мнението, че трябва човек да е чел "Лолита", за да направи своите съпоставки на двете произведения, да търси приликите и разликите между тях и да реши за себе си кое е неговото произведение.
Вие може да решите обратното или да харесате и двете.
Familiar Nabokovian motifs and a recognisably Nabokovian story, and a precursor to Lolita: a deluded man concocts a plan to marry a sick (dying) woman in order to molest her twelve year old daughter.
The man goes a long period of time frustrated as the woman refuses to die; a period of frustration that Nabokov depicts brilliantly (as is his wont).

Nobody creates dangerous art like this anymore..
The Enchanter is a dangerous novella.
I remember reading Christopher Hitchens memoir in which he said that Martin Amis was obsessed with Nabokov.
John Updike said that Nabokov writes prose ecstatically.
It is a perfect description of Nabokov's prose.
The images and feelings he conjures up are like ones that no other writer can.On the weekends, I take my wife to some Bollywood/Hollywood film and while the film is going on, I often wonder to myself - "This is just shit.
All this yuppie feel good shit?
Some of us need dangerous art in our lives.
this is an excellent little novella. as with anything nabokov writes, there are stunning passages of prose. this book is a pre-cursor to lolita and as such explores an erotic relationship between an older man and a (much) younger, uh, pre-woman. I know what you're thinking, "Nabokov wrote TWO books about older men getting their freak on with younger 'pre-women,' that ain't right. I could accept one, but TWO! Oh hell no! That ain't even a little bit right!" To which I say, "Be cool, bitch. Be cool! You ain't never heard of so wrong it's right? Damn."
Though Arthur is not Humbert Humbert he more or less is because his motivations, strategy, and endless musings about young girls mirrors the now famous protagonist of Nabokov;'s later novel, though it should be noted that Arthur is far less eloquent and ends his life far more miserably than Humbert does.As I noted with my review of Lolita, The Enchanter is a hard book if the reader is willing to struggle with the pedophilia found within the novel.
The Enchanter I found had far more honesty with describing the physical features of young girls and so Arthur comes across far more easily as a sexual pervert.
The story is of course beautifully written, but what's missing here is the sublimely creepy character of Humbert Humbert, who (unreliably) narrates Lolita in the first person, allowing the prose to elevate to such lofty heights in describing his profound lust, while holding his depravity a degree removed from the subject, thus affording the reader a fog of protective uncertainty, against what would otherwise be a depiction of a clearly vile scenario.
(hide spoiler)]Given that this story follows so closely many of the major plot points of Lolita, it is almost impossible to evaluate this as a completely separate work.
He copied Jeremy Irons's book, Lolita, which was written in 1996, and a film adaptation was made the subsequent year.
It's bullshit!Anyway, for an older man, Jeremy Irons is so hot, don't you think?
Jestli se nepletu, je to moje první setkání s Nabokovem a došlo k němu poté co jsem zjistil, že Čaroděj je Lolita na 100 stránkách.
Tak by to mělo být vždycky, napsat krátkou verzi pro lenochy, prodavače O2 a autoklempíře, a dlouhou pro nudný lidi.
Děj tedy jako Lolita, s tím rozdílem, že tahle nymfička byla ještě mladší, což mi v gatích a hlavě nadělalo docela paseku.
Naštěstí jsem při čtení neměl erekci, takže jsem normální člověk.
Především proto, že jsem si hlavního hrdinu představoval jako Billa Cosbyho.
Co se týče slohu tak se to chvílemi četlo dost nesnesitelně, ale naštěstí to rychle doběhlo do finále.8/10
Мълчалива възхита и няколко изречения в подкрепа ...Набоков + Иглика Василева =Никога преди това не се беше случвало подчиненото изречение на страховития му живот да се допълни от главното ...... на моменти спираше, дълбоко умислена, след което го догонваше с някое позакъсняло питане, подсказано ѝ от неговите предпазливи думи, излезли на пръсти от устата му.Той погледна гората, която се приближаваше на вълнообразни скокове от склон на склон, докато накрая се спусна по едно нанадолнище и се препъна в пътя ...
Вълшебникът: http://izumen.blogspot.com/2015/04/bl..."Какво да направя, за да се помиря със себе си?"- така започва "Вълшебникът", последното произведение на Набоков, писано на родния му руски език.
Историята е изровена от архивите от сина му Дмитри и е издадена през 1986 г.Главният герой няма име, нито пък момичето, което толкова го вълнува.
Интересното в случая е подходът на Набоков към деликатната тема.
Чрез изящен и елегантен, почти поетичен стил, който прави контраст с мрачните и реалистични събития в историята, авторът успява да създаде крехък баланс между, който сякаш всеки момент ще се разруши, досущ като психиката на главния герой.
Вълшебникът: http://izumen.blogspot.com/2015/04/bl...
I keep saying this when a discussion of Lolita crops up, "It takes genius to make gross sound flowery and a criminal sound like just another human being with flaws he could never overcome." The Enchanter is a pre-Lolita.
I tend to agree with Nabokov when he says that this work is lucid as compared to Lolita.
The Enchanter is more a story narrated in the most usual way in some places, and sets another linguistic bar in certain others.
Nabokov has his way with words and metaphors, and the narration takes its own life after the first few pages.
this was the "first little throb of Lolita," and while it stands on its own, it's all the more valuable for insight into how a theme was worked over in Nab's head.
within that theme, there's less nuance: the girl is far less coquettish, maybe for being less American, and the man more explicitly predatory and perverse; the boundaries are rigid and the story is a study of an indisputable frenzied psychopath.
more disturbing, more amusing, more explicit!
Това, изглежда, е рецептата на Набоков за тази неморална порция от наслада.Още в началото на книгата читателят е опрян като в ъгъла на боксов ринг и това принуждаване към отстъпление не спира през цялата книга.
Но как да стане това, къде да се дръпнеш повече?
Ако човек уцелва правилния музикален тон на люшкащата се като кораб в развълнувано море мисъл на разказвача, може изцяло да се привърже към Набоков.
В поредна книга откривам виртуозност и чувствителност към болка, които възвисяват и естетическото, и емоционалното възприятие на мен самия като читател.
С други думи, това е истинско изкуство.
This novella is a miniature Lolita, its predecessor.
It is unbelievably dense - with surprising prose and complex emotions.
An exquisite piece of work.
The only thing, and this may be my fault as a reader, at times the understatement confused me too much.
But then I read the commentary in the book written by its translator (who, gorgeously, is Nabokov’s son!) and realised that this understatement, less characteristic of Lolita, was an intentional literary device to make the reader unsure about whether the pedophile narrator is mad or not.
Really loved it!
One can never tire of Lolita.
Potaknut Nabokovljevim snishodljivim izjavama o Dostojevskom uzeh jednu njegovu knjigu nasumce u GISKO-u. Ispostavilo se da je to, po autorovim riječima iz pogovora, „najduža kratka priča“ ili „najkraća novela“, sadržajem preteča Lolite. Moram priznati da je stil izrazito istančan pa ću morati uzeti još neki njegov tekst, po mogućnosti s drugom tematikom.
NABOKOV ! quelle plume, quelle nouvelle dérangeante! hâte de lire Lolita
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/9KIslunJRhY
Questi però riesce a stordirlo di chiacchiere, quasi profondendosi in una sorta di confessione non richiesta, convincendolo così dell'errore nel quale era incorso.L'uomo, dopo l'incontro col gendarme, avrà non pochi problemi a ritrovare la propria stanza e una volta ritrovatala, quando sembra sul punto di appagare i propri malati desideri...Per scoprire l'epilogo di questa novella del papà di Lolita dovrete gustarvi come ho fatto io L'Incantatore entrando nei meandri oscuri della mente di questo rapace incantatore.
