https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568476.Henry_Huggins
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Cleary's wholesome debut novel shines with innocence in its depiction of a winsome young boy and his mischievous dog.
I really think that in the last chapter, Finders Keepers, was one of the most exciting of them all, where Risby, (The dog,) had to decide which boy he wanted for his master.
And as I listened to the talk with Beverly Cleary, I really thought about what she said, and in the beginning where usually if a woman wrote a book, the main character would be a girl, and if it was a man, he would write about a boy.
As Beverly Cleary thought, she wrote about a boy.
Well, at least out of all the Beverly Cleary books I've read of hers.
Sweet, funny, quick read for my fifth-grader about an 11 year old boy, Henry Huggins, who leads what he feels like a very boring life on Klickikat Street, before a dog named Ribsy suddenly turns everything topsy-turvy.Bonus was that mom enjoyed it too, which does not always happen with children's books.
The chapter about the school Christmas play had us both giggling out loud and almost in tears.
Style of story-telling and themes reminded me of A Christmas Story.The book was originally published in 1950 so inevitably, there are certain stereotypes played for laughs which are not funny at all today.
Published in 1950, this book takes you back to a time when an ice cream cone cost a nickel, kids bought horse meat for their dogs at the pet store, and a third-grader could run all over Portland by himself.
And then his mom needs her canning jars back.
He decides to enter his dog in the local kids' dog show, but a series of events lead to his dog being light pink...and winning a prize.
This is the third Beverly Cleary book I've read to my boys (ages 4 & 6), but the first one featuring a human main character.
(ISBN was reused, my HC from 1978 has boy leaning against bus stop obelisk, Ribsy peeking out of bag.)Only the innocence and the prices date this, imo. There's no reason children today can't get a kick out of the pair's adventures with riding the bus, guppies, the school Christmas 'operetta,' and more. Then there's the very special ending which still chokes me up. And Louis Darling's illustrations are perfect. Read it aloud with your family. If your kids are grown, read it to your dog, your fish, or your inner child. ;)
This was cute. I'm not necessarily a fan of "dog stories" in general, but I like how the focus was on Henry's relationship with Ribsy, and how he eventually became a member of the community. I enjoyed the "guppy" story especially. Of course, this book is a bit dated and from a "simpler" time (or so we call it now), but I think there's still enough here for today's children to enjoy.
I wanted a dog so much when I was in third grade that I convinced my friend across the street to say that her dog was half mine.Beverly Cleary's intention and genius was to write stories that kids in the 1950s could relate to.
Finally she decided to write such books herself and started an entire trend.Henry Huggins is a small town, middle-class third grader who feels his life is not very exciting.
The book goes on to relate Henry's life with Ribsy and other pets on Klickitat Street.
I never did read any of the Henry Huggins books when I was a kid, and boy, did I miss out!My 7-year-old daughter said she wanted to give this book 4 1/2 stars, and when I asked her why not 5 stars, she said, "Because it wasn't long enough." So, given that the only "problem" was that the book left her wanting more, I think 5 stars is a fair rating for both of us.I really loved how good-natured Henry is.
I forgot how much I loved this book. Henry Huggins brings back good memories of being a kid. Like Henry, my friends and I spent our time outside, and usually had some fun project going. Henry just seems like the kind of boy that every kid would want for a friend. He had a great dog, good business sense, and a lot of spunk. This is a great book for kids and a fun way for parents to remember the joys of being a kid.
I am so sad that I missed this book as a kid because I loved it now, as an adult.
I was a HUGE Beverly Cleary as a kid, so I have no idea how I passed by this one.
With regards to this particular book, I fell in love with Henry and Ribsy.
It makes this book ideal for reading to (or with) young readers.
There's something so wonderful & almost magical about the way that Beverly Cleary can take a simple story about everyday characters and create such a nostalgic, accessible read for all ages.
اولین کتاب بورلی کلیریوقتی نویسنده مجبور بود کتابی رو بفروشه که فکر میکرد خودش بهتر از اون بلده بنوی
Read this with Theo (5) a few months ago in an optimistic beginning of reading chapter books aloud at night.
I thought it might be a little "old" for him, but we both enjoyed it (I had not read it, although I've read most of her books).
I have several others lined up for us (Stuart Little, Charlotte's Web, The Boxcar Children, Ramona the Pest, Ralph S.
Mouse), I just need to get to it and keep at it.
Bedtime is so crazy.
Is there a better time to read chapter books out loud together?
Other suggestions for chapter books are welcome.
Me: 5 starsSon (age 11): 5 starsDaughter (age 6): 5 starsWe all loved this book! I don't think I ever actually read Henry Huggins when I was a kid, but I did read a lot of other Beverly Cleary books. Henry and his dog Ribsy are both lovable characters, and the situations and solutions they find themselves in are just good clean fun. My kids laughed at the typical exclamations from this time period - "golly!", "gee whiz", and "jeepers!". And the narration by Neil Patrick Harris was perfect.
The kids and I really disliked the ending of this book. Without giving too much away, there was so much selfishness that we had a hard time feeling the way the author intended us to feel about it all. Disappointing.
A place where an 8 year old boy could ride the city bus to the Y and go swimming for an hour, stop at the drugstore for a nickle ice cream cone, and make friends with a stray dog - quite unsupervised and without even a cell phone to keep him tethered to Mommy's side!
One minor quibble is that in the newest edition of the book, Henry and his friends are illustrated wearing very modern clothing.
PS: Some years after I'd read this book as a child, I was shocked and a little dismayed to realize that the dog's name is RIBsy, not RISby as I had transposed it.
Henry Huggins (Henry Huggins #1) by Beverly Cleary (Dell 1979) (Fiction - Children's) introduces the reader to a boy in the third grade in a small town where everyone knows everyone else, all the kids walk to the school on the corner, and all families have two parents with a stay-at-home mother.
When I reread this book yesterday, I recognized every single one of these stories from the deepest removes of almost fifty years.
Do yourself a favor: find a boy or girl who is eight years old, and put this book in his or her hands.
It seems somewhat surprising that I never read any of these books when I was growing up.
Still this was a part of childhood that I passed right by so it is somewhat surprising for me to be reading them now.
So in response to that I went and found the first book by the author and read it.
I found the introduction somewhat amusing, it was fun to find out that the author once worked at the Yakima Library.
I can say that she did a great job of making her first outing about a boy and I will most likely be reading more.
This book details the adventures of Henry Huggins and his new-found dog, Ribsy.
I re-read this book in preparation of introducing it to my five-year-old nephew.
I also really liked the introduction to this book (added in 2000; it wasn't in the edition I read as a kid).
My only criticism is that I wish the updated version wouldn't have specified the meat they got at the pet store for Ribsy was horse meat.
I have always been sensitive to stuff like that and am sure my nephew will be, too.
His extreme propensity for accidents, combined with complete obliviousness, firmly cement Henry as one of the most memorable characters from children's lit...
I remember reading about him in grade school, wishing I had a friend like him, and asking my mom for pet guppies.
I was so happy when I discovered there are a total of six books about Henry and Ribsy, a couple of which I haven't read.
I can't wait to read them with my son soon, and again when he's old enough to ask for pet guppies.
Henry Huggins is about Henry and his dog Ribsy (Ribs for short.) Henry finds Ribsy in front of a drugstore. Henry has to take Ribs home on the bus. But to his disappointment he has to have Ribsy in a box to take him home in the bus. Henry and his “friends” are not nice to each other. This book is very enjoyable and well paced. – Sam Kuntz
I’ve been reading the Ramona books with my seven-year-old twins, so we’ve decided to listen to the Henry Huggins books when we drive around town.
Beverly Cleary might be best known for her Ramona series, but she wrote the Henry Huggins books almost twenty years before Ramona’s first book.
Henry Huggins starts a couple of years before the events in the Ramona series.
When the story begins, Henry is a third grade boy who finds a stray dog.
I would recommend Henry Huggins.
As I mentioned at the beginning of the review, we’ve been listening to the Henry Huggins series.
I bet it still felt current to my kids, though.Dad: Who wants to talk to me about Henry Huggins?Poppy: ME!!!!Eleanor:WAIT!!!
It's her 8th birthday.)Dad: Poppy, what did you like about it.Poppy: (Talking to Gwen about the Legos): There.
E: Um, I liked it when Henry (view spoiler)[ got to keep Ribsy.
At the end of the book the dog's original owner came to pick him up after he lived with Henry for a year.
As a kid reading the book I felt really conflicted.
I felt really bad for everybody at the end of the story.)  (hide spoiler)]D: Gwen, what about you?
This audio version of Beverly Cleary's first book, Henry Huggins, is fantastic!
He really brought the book to life, and made me laugh out loud several times with his expressive voices for some of the minor characters.
It's been so many years since I first read Henry Huggins that I thoroughly enjoyed revisiting it in audio.
I also loved the introduction by Beverly Cleary and the interview with her at the end.
My one complaint would be that the book is just too short!
Now I need to revisit all of the other Henry Huggins books.
The first book Beverly Cleary ever wrote. It is a little dated here and there, but still a great book. I love that Henry has to do things on his own (such as find places for his guppies to live.) If Henry was my kid, I know I would just buy a tank for the guppies! There is a wonderful old-fashioned feel to these books.The pictures are not the ones I remember. They have been completely redone. They are slightly more multicultural and show kids wearing bicycle helmets.
Read this as a read aloud to my class, they loved it. The language (gee, jeepers) is funny to them but I think the simplicity is what they enjoyed when we talked about it being published in the 50s. It was a nice trip down memory lane for me also, as I loved the Beverly Cleary books when I was in elementary school.
I read this to honor Beverly Cleary, who turned 100 this year. Because of a book challenge to read a book published the year I was born, I researched many books. I was totally amazed to find this book on the list. Never dreamed that Beverly Clearly was 100 years old. In reading the introduction to this, her first book, I gained a great respect for her.
Read almost a chapter each night. My 6 yo was engaged, and I liked the characters and the story. Her favorite was the pink dog, and her least favorite was the last story about Ribsy because it made her sad. She thought about how she would feel if it was her dog and her friend in that situation (no spoilers!). I loved that afterward she remembers the stories and put them into context.
A book I almost know by heart. Rereading to create questions for our Book Battles this year. Although this book came out thirteen years before I was born and is most assuredly a snapshot of post WWII suburbia there is a timelessness about the way children play, think, and interact that will never die.
Review from an 8-year-old:"It's about a boy who finds a dog who ran away from his real owner's aunt and uncle. I like this book because it's about a boy and a dog and I wish I had a dog. My favorite part was when the two boys were fighting over the dog. I would give this book 4 stars."6/28/13
We really enjoyed listening to this on CD (read by Neil Patrick Harris!) Kate immediately requested another Henry Huggins book.
