https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38169.Alas_Babylon
”And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornicationand lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament forher, when they shall see the smoke of her burning,Standing afar off for the fear of her torment, saying,Alas, alas, that great city Babylon, that mighty city! for in onehour is thy judgment come. “ Revelations  The cover art of the American First Edition from 1959.Randy Bragg comes from a long line of prestigious individuals. He, unfortunately, has never found a way to live
The cover art of the American First Edition from 1959.Randy Bragg comes from a long line of prestigious individuals.
Mark sends his family to be with Randy.
It grew until the mushroom’s rim looked like the leading edge of an approaching weather front, black, purple, orange, green, a cancerous man-created line squall.”
”In four months,” Randy said, “we’ve regressed four thousand years.
Food of course.WaterGasolineBut do you think of tires or coffee or medicine?Fort Repose as it turns out is strategically located far enough away from the big cities that received these megaton explosions.
This book was published in 1959, and it feels like it every step of the way.
The author drags us through 100 pages of rising action, which is annoying because it adds nothing to the plot, and we all know the bomb is going to hit before we even read the blurb on the back cover.
When the electricity goes out and they need to cook all the meat in the freezer, they can't decide whether to throw a "mixed party." People!
If you're thinking of reading this book, check out "The Road" instead.
4.5 to 5.0 stars. I think the above pictures and quotes express a lot better than my words ever could what I would like to say in this review about the power and eloquence of Pat Frank's 1959 story about the folly and danger of Nuclear war. I can not imagine a better novel about the immediate after-effects of a global nuclear war than what is presented here.True, the fact that anyone is left alive after the war does tend to make the novel anachronistic. But since, a “war begins and everyone i
I think the above pictures and quotes express a lot better than my words ever could what I would like to say in this review about the power and eloquence of Pat Frank's 1959 story about the folly and danger of Nuclear war.
I thought the book showed the devastation and folly of nuclear war, while still maintaining a positive, hopeful message about humanity in general.
I am very interested in talking to people who have read this book because the last page BLEW ME AWAY and I think it was an incredibly powerful commentary on mankind in general and I am wondering whether others feel the same.
another great survival book!
this one was surprising because it didnt feel dated at all, even though it was written in 1959.
it makes me wish there were maybe 200 more pages, particularly about rita, who is how i would want to be in the aftermath: shotgun.
stockpiles.i love the image, but the reality is more that i would be in the library, probably rereading this book for tips.
to sum it up in a few words: armadillos, glasses, honey, kaboom.
and two things i learned, to continue my lists: do not pick up jewelry after the blast, and buy extra glasses.helpful review??
Instead of the perhaps more plausible temporary survival of human society in Nevil Chute's "On the Beach", this tale of a rural central Florida community blessed with favorable winds on the day the missiles fly makes the story one of a successful long term survival.
On the 50th anniversary of Alas Babylon's publication, in 2009 (the year I read and wrote the review) a nice story came out profiling the gifts of Frank.
A quote from his brother is forgiving: “He was bigger than life,” says his daughter, Perry Frank, “bigger than the problems he had.” Florida Times Union storySo how does this early post-apocalyptic tale fare in the lineup of outstanding books in this genre (that I have happened to be noursished by).
“Terrified at her torment, they will stand off and cry: ‘Woe! Woe to you, great city, you mighty city of Babylon! In one hour your doom has come!’”- The Book of Revelation 18:10“[Y]esterday was a past period in history, with laws and rules archaic as ancient Rome’s. Today the rules had changed, just as Roman law gave way to atavistic barbarism as the empire fell to Hun and Goth. Today a man saved himself and his family and to hell with everyone else…”- Pat Frank, Alas, Babylon“We can’t do this.
As someone with an interest in the Cold War, as well as nuclear arms and strategy, Alas, Babylon promised to provide some insights into the contemporary thoughts and fears of people living through that period.
Meanwhile, he occasionally breaks away to the Mediterranean or Strategic Air Command to give us fleeting images of the rising tension between the U.S. and U.S.S.R. It’s arguable, I suppose, whether Frank needed to devote nearly one-third of this relatively short novel (just 316 pages) to setting up a war we know is going to happen.
Late to the party I’ve read very little classic Sci-Fi, a wonderful introduction.
While the writing style is simplistic the message is not and every bit as relevant as the day it was written 
There are undertones of racism, guess that’s to be expected given when it was written - mixing of races was still a radical concept back then, in fairness kudos to the author for writing it into the story line.
With Jim at the helm we had a blast - half of us now hoarding tins of coffee & cans of gasoline.Cons: The main protagonist a bit of a caricature, the love interests a little too flat.
Review May2013 Reading again with the "Books, Movies, TV and Life" group.
His Wikipedia entry is quite brief.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pat_FrankI was born the year this novel came out, yet the times & mind set seem very, very familiar.
Strange times & a strange way to live.The second half of the book really brings to mind just how much we take for granted.
We'd feel it more today, so the story actually engaged me more as I thought of more items I would miss.The Cold War tensions when we feared a global nuclear war are gone.
That's well done & makes it a pretty timeless survival story.
4 stars
It's also full of good characters and solid 1959 survivability thought.
Solid.So what's my complaint?
Plus there was still a lot of the previous generation (read pre-electricity) tools available to peeps at this time, even if they were getting rather old.That, and it was mild as hell compared to most dystopian books I've read or even movies.
And the totally unbelievable optimistic ending?
Now, all we do is expect unending rapes and mass murder when the world ends.
This book tells the opposite and optimistic story.
https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Objectively, I think that 'On the Beach' is a better work of fiction, but 'Alas, Babylon' is not without its appeal.
It is funny though, that in Pat Frank's introduction, he mentions that his main reason for writing this book was to convince people how very disastrous a nuclear conflict would be.
It definitely falls into the sub-category of post-apocalyptic fiction that focuses on people coming together and re-building, with unbroken spirit.The writing and attitudes shown here definitely reflect the time period.
Ironically, however, I think that it is more than probable that Pat Frank himself felt that he was very progressive in his attitudes.
Alas, Babylon was written in 1959 and is part of what I call the Trifecta of Nuclear Cold War novels.
The second is On the Beach which deals with the possible end of humankind due to nuclear war.
The third is Alas Babylon which takes play immediately after a first nuclear attack and deals with the hardships of surviving a nuclear attack.
Alas Babylon is the most optimistic of the three in the sense that we in the 50s did not yet understand how devastating Nuclear War could actually be.
Yet the devastation of all-out nuclear war was still quite alarming.
The attack happens early in the narrative and the rest of the book concerns the post-apocalypse life after this attack.The novel starts off portraying the mundane lives of the residents of Fort Repose, a small town in Florida.
This becomes clearer as the main characters struggle to adapt to a post-apocalyptic life.
The details of post-apocalyptic life here are very well thought out by the author.
Authors like  Octavia Butler can breathe life into their characters in just a few paragraphs but I don’t think this is Pat Frank’s forte; this makes the narrative a little less compelling for me.
He diagnosed this negative intelligence as more ominous than almost anything that could’ve happened.”Randy begins grocery shopping while Mark packs up his family in Omaha to send them to Randy’s house and together with the neighbors, they navigate survival after a missile strike.“The sight of war’s roseate birthmark on the sky choked back their words.”A Review in Three PartsThe Time Traveler’s Version: five starsMost likely, the ideal way to experience this book published in 1959 was to be born in 1935-1945.
FEMA encourages families to get together and come up with a plan for what they would do if a disaster were to occur in their area as well as emergency kits to use in case of a disaster.
The emergency plan should include things such as:•	Escape routes•	Evacuation plans•	Family communications•	Utility shut-off and safety•	Insurance and vital records•	Special needs•	Care for pets•	Safety skillsProphets and leaders in our church have counseled families to prepare a year’s worth of food storage to have in case of an emergency.
What we have here, in fact, is a kind of anti-modern ode to the traditionally-minded small town communities of America, brought about (how else?) by means of the USSR removing the major cities of the nation and replacing them with smoking radioactive craters.Did I mention this was published in 1959?As a novel, this is mostly a failure: the coziness of the catastrophe is mostly laughable, the plot kind of plodding, the characters stale and flat, the racism and sexism casual and blatant.As a historical document, though, this is fascinating.
men run with idea but tell woman she has to stay behind for safety3.
(The main difference, of course, is that in Fort Repose there are no computers and no Internet to disrupt, so that isn't an issue.)This is sociological science fiction at its best, a revealing look at how individuals and a community might cope with unprecedented challenge and hardship.
But the author's trust in the capacity of human nature to meet the challenges facing it keeps the reader from despair.Set as it is in the Jim Crow South (at what, in the real world, was the cusp of the Civil Rights movement), race issues play a role in the novel.
This was when the world was in the grip of the, so called, cold war between the USA and USSR.
During the Cold War the populous of the world lived in the shadow of a nuclear war.
They have to quite literally reinvent the wheel.Living with the populous of Fort Repose for the duration of the book I became totally immersed in their struggle to survive.
There is a reason why certain books become classics, it’s because they are bloody good.
And this book, believe me, is bloody good.
This is a compelling, atmospheric book about the physical, social and emotional consequences of nuclear war in a small Florida community.
This book was written in 1959, when the dangers of a nuclear conflagration were not negligible, but it feels surprisingly modern and relevant to modern sensibilities.
The crescendo of tension bringing to the actual trigger of the nuclear catastrophe, as well as the description of the event itself, are quite memorable and feel very realistic – unsettlingly so.
The description of the immediate after-effects of a global nuclear war, although a tad optimistic in my opinion, is also quite realistic and unsettling in its ordinariness.
This was probably one of the very first "end of the world" novels I read and it is still one of the best.At the very end, one characters asks "Who won?" and another replied "why, we did" and "turned to begin the thousand year night". So much for winning a nuclear war.Very scary and depressing, and unfortunately all to real on what life would be like after a nuclear exchange.

It's like if a person in the year 3000 found a copy of the Life of the Kardashians; it'd probably be a fascinating period study into our time, but not the most illuminating of our potential for human thought and possibility.Some examples: as a book written in 1959 about the deep south (Florida), Alas, Babylon is pretty blatantly racist.
Though, at least, not militantly so, at a time when violence against non-whites was common; Frank does present his white characters as tolerant, and writes about their solidarity with the black inhabitants of Fort-Repose.
It was written in 1959 when fear of the atomic bomb was all-encompassing so I can only imagine how stunned people were to read this book when it came out.
Well, maybe not exactly a mirror image; the author included many things I hadn't really thought about and, believe me, I did a lot of thinking while reading this book.
All of the atomic fears of the 1950s (and later) are there, but Frank's 'message' seems to be that we can survive even the worst catastrophe with everyday, secularized applications of faith, hope, and charity."
As a survivalist epic, it's not as grim as it could have been, but it's another one of those books that might make you think about stocking up on bullets and beans, just in case.For a book written in 1959, Alas, Babylon holds up surprisingly well, largely because as with all stories about a total collapse of civilization, once the grid goes down and there is no more government, it doesn't matter whether it was 1959 or 1980 or 2014, everything is going to look like the 19th century pretty quickly.
I recently read that this book inspired John Lennon on his anti-war views, and that it also inspired many other books with the same topic. This is an amazing apocalyptic book that gives an inside into nuclear warfare and survivalism, and should be read with caution.
Even thought this was written in the 50s during the haunting specter of nuclear annihilation, Alas Babylon is still surprisingly (and sadly) relevant today. Todays post apocalyptic fiction may be caused by other man or nature caused trauma, but human response is what makes these type of book so interesting. People react with courage, fear, avarice and you wonder how you would measure up. The racism and sexism in the story seem an accurate representation of those dated times, but I understand why this is a classic.
"Your grandfather used to walk to school in Fort Repose.
I guess we'll both have to learn to walk again."Part of our life in the modern era––even after the collapse of the Soviet Union and all that went with it––is the silent understanding that one day, perhaps quite unexpectedly, the world might end.
Everyone must learn to walk again.I don't know who said it, but an expression occurred to me a couple of times while reading that really summed up the quality of the prose.
Everything from the event of the apocalypse to the slow process of reestablishing leadership and supplies was laid out as if the author had personally gone through it.
What a challenging and hope-filled and inspiring book.
I was so wrong.
Mercifully, I was so very wrong.
This may sound trite but for me personally, it was a powerfully inspiring lesson to learn.
Survival would be challenging and brutal but life would go on and we would find Easter sunrise services to attend.While this story is highly technical it is also rich with personal story lines.
By the end of the text, we know and care about the cast of characters and are more than rooting for them.
I can honestly say that I did not want this book to end.
I wanted to hear more about this incredible story of survival and human spirit.
Actual 3.5 ratingI think something like Cormack McCarthy's 'The Road' might be a little more indicative of a post nuclear war world than what was presented here, but nevertheless, the story still brought home the reality of what could happen.The book was written in the late 50's during the height of the atomic war fear and of course, technology was nowhere near what it is now.
The characters were well written and at the moment of the attack there was indeed that feeling of horror that comes when acknowledging something that is not make believe, but rather, something that could be a reality.
One of the better post-apocalyptic novels. Following a surviving "town" or clean area after a nuclear exchange. I've read far worse. This one will hold your attention.
