https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13146.Black_Friday
I’ve read a lot of James Patterson’s newer novels and decided to start reading some of his earlier ones. This one was published in 1985 which made it a rather eerie book to read due to the subject matter.1. It deals with a crash of Wall Street aided by the greed of the wealthy and the big banks.2. It deals with terrorism long before we were introduced to Timothy McVey and Osama Bin Laden3. It deals with disenchanted veterans of the Viet Nam war suffering from PTSD.It just seems like James Patter
I’ve read a lot of James Patterson’s newer novels and decided to start reading some of his earlier ones.
This one was published in 1985 which made it a rather eerie book to read due to the subject matter.1.
It deals with a crash of Wall Street aided by the greed of the wealthy and the big banks.2.
It deals with terrorism long before we were introduced to Timothy McVey and Osama Bin Laden3.
It deals with disenchanted veterans of the Viet Nam war suffering from PTSD.It just seems like James Patterson was in tune with these events long before they became part of our everyday lives.
The book is so desperate to be the most adrenaline-charged novel of the '80s that any degree of depth or emotional resonance gets left by the wayside.Regular Patterson readers will note that the main character, Arch Carroll, shares a good many characteristics with series-regular Michael Bennett, and there's even a Mary Katherine around to take care of his kids.As bad as it is, BLACK FRIDAY could have been worse.
The frantic pacing keeps things from getting TOO boring, and the plot has enough potential that I can't help but wish it had been entrusted to a more gifted author.
Quite an intelligent book to understand and follow, not my favourite from James Patterson, but his die hard fans should love it.
An apt title for this week, eh? As usual, James Patterson's writing follows a formula and doesn't sway much from his usual stuff, but it's still a really enjoyable read with interesting characters.
The plot of a terrorist attack on New York City and the crash of the stock market and hence the world economy somehow seemed much more apocalyptic thirty years ago than it does today---probably because it all happened and we lived through it.
The world has suffered, people have lost their lives and many other dangerous events undoubtedly lie ahead but we have stumbled along and survived.
I guess that shows that mankind always looks into the abyss of change and shudders but predicting the outcome is a challenge.
He was happily explaining to passers-by that it was his fifteenth anniversary on that corner.
It's funny, although this book is...how old? 24-ish years old, it quite scarily reminded me about things happening today... Very good story though, and I thought I had it all worked out at the end, but I was way off the mark! That's what I like to see...a book that keeps me guessing right to the end, and then proves me wrong on every level!
I liked learning about a potential scenario of risk and physical threats to the stock market.That being said, although terror attacks against Wall Street are depicted in this book, that's not really what this novel is about.
It includes endless and somewhat shallow commentary on the mistreatment of vets after they came home from Vietnam.
I got the feeling that the reader is supposed to sympathize with Hudson because he's a patriot who was exploited by his country, but I can't connect with a terrorist mastermind.
The Vietnam vet social commentary was well-intentioned but didn't quite work for me.The character I did like was the law enforcement hero, Arch Carroll.
Originally published in 1986 this is a tale of a Federal terrorist agent and the fight by combined agencies in an effort to track down the "Green Band", a mysterious group that is out to destroy the financial markets in the US by bombing selected targets on Wall Street.
They make no demands, but continue to wreck havoc on the financial institutions which begins to affect the world monetary system.
Often following clues that turn out to be red herrings the agencies reach panic mode before some breaks occur, but they are also dealing with a Russian assassin/terrorist now as well and thins get worse before the they get better.
As much as I love James Patterson, I could not get connected to this book. I didn't enjoy reading it, there were just a lot of characters, it wasn't focused on any 1 or 2 detectives specifically and I just didn't care for it.
wtf just happened?an end to the deception, indeedwell, this deception, at leastp148: 5 international business -- 23.219,000,000p199: carroll slowly sipped fresh-brewed coffee from a cracked revenge of the jedi mug.p243: 'oh, i mink this will do me pretty well. ..."
Originally published in 1987 as Black Market, this book brings readers back in time when the world was still swayed by the Cold War and a lot of today's international issues are different.
In fact, the true source of the plot to strike at Wall Street is a complete surprise that will shock even the most deductive reader.This, like many of Patterson's early books, is stronger than most of the schlock he is cracking out today.
In the book, arch takes on his most challenging case yet: the bombing of the world trade center.
Arch carrol, working with D.I.A, the president and the the secret service, to capture the culprits of this bombing.
Arch and the team travel country to country tracking down the members of "green band".
"Green band" was a team of disabled veterans working for a cab company called "vets cab company" and they felt betrayed by the country they fought for.
Arch settles down with co-work/friend of his named catlin dillon, and they raised a happy family together.
Can't wait to read the next book!
The stock market is thrown into chaos when Green Band blows up several Wall Street institutions, essentially creating an economic world war.
My lack of interest in Wall Street and anything to do with the Stock Market just made a large portion of the book hard to understand and follow.
About half ways through, when it was discovered who Green Band was, the book began to pick up pace.
There was too much stock market details for my taste and too little of a transition into how they got on the right track.
One of the leaders of the counterterrorism group is a man who lives like he has nothing left to lose.
Can he find out the truth or will he lose his life and all he loves with it in the process?I had a lot of complicated thoughts about this group.
Mainly I think the premise of this story is heavy-handed; the plot of terrorists striking New York in violent fashion sound too close to something that a couple of decades later happened for real (9/11).
Too much of it sounded anti-American to me ((view spoiler)[ Don't trust your veterans people.
This conspiracy is run by a bunch of vietnam vets who appear to want to get back at the country for how poorly they were treated after the war.
The general story is decent although kind of far fetched, some of the financial aspects are actually pretty good, but my problem was the biggest break in the case comes out of nowhere with no logical way to get to.
Someone randomly says oh we should check out vietnam vets, seemed pretty random to me for someone to follow up on by flying to DC and searching through stacks and stacks of paper (early 90s so minimal computer records).
Follows the formula, strong start descends rapidly into drivel. Hero is a single father with a dead wife a la Alex Cross, vying with a criminal mastermind a la...Another cringeworthy love scene transacted days after the hero was shot... Appalling dialogue and general writing. And ridiculous scenarios, not least of which is the British secret service cruising around the Falls Road stronghold of Belfast looking for IRA terrorists - in a Bentley. I want whatever Patterson is smoking as it provides a complete existence outside of real life.
A story of deception, secret government sects, global terrorism, Vie-veteran guerrilla, bomb threats on Wall Street...set in the middle of Cold War.Cut the length in half and you might get a decent thriller. But as it is, the pace was too slow, the twists and turns too convoluted, the characters were a bit too one-dimensional for my taste...I'm just not convinced.Great premise, poor execution. Sad, but true.
Awesome! Scary because it's entirely plausible! A little dated in terms of the technology, but still great! What would happen if someone caused a stock market crash yet never identified themselves or their demands? How terrible would that be?
Intransitive 'lay'. Enough said.
couldnt get into it, which is weird for a patterson novel. I dont care much for stocks and whatnot, so i stopped reading and switched back to mystery/thriller
25 pages into it and could not get into it. Stopped reading
There is a tired, almost listless quality about the book as if the writer was bored writing it - even during the (relatively few) action sequences.
A terrorist attack on the financial system seems quite a likely proposition, but it appeared to have trapped tbe writer into a great deal of boring finance / accounts detail.
The sexy bits were OK - but to me they echoed the 'bored writer' impression, as if he was saying to himself: 'Oh, I had better stick some of this in, or the book will not sell well enough.' These moderately sweaty interludes did not advance the plot, nor augment any relevant understanding of the main characters.

I did not particularly like this book.
There was no depth to the plot and the storyline was flat.
It actually brings out the sufferings the Vietnam veterans face in their normal day-to-day life.
This is what the author wanted to highlight through the book it seems.
The plot revolves around a group of veterans on a bombing spree in New York led by a dashing colonel who has turned traitor.
Without revealing too much here, the climax is pretty damp without a decent finish.
Add to it, I thought the character Caitlin's character had no real role in the book and was added just for the heck of it.
I had a little bit of a hard time keeping up with all the characters in the beginning and the flashbacks to understand the Vietnam connection and the creation of Green Band. I certainly feel that Wall Street is only interested in protecting their own interests and the heck with all the small investors . By the end of the book I was cheering on the vet's and loved the way the book ended
This was my first James Patterson book. The plot was interesting but at times it was hard to follow given the financial trading of bonds, which was a major part of the plot. At the ending, I am not sure what happened. Everything seemed to sort of just end, without a smooth blending of the relevant subplots. I am going to try another of his books to see how that one flows.
as a rule I usually lap everything written by James Patterson but this book was terrible. at least I saw where the beginning of Michael Bennett came from detective caroll reminded me of him Irish/American widow raising his children on his own with the help of his sister MK ..American lot similar to Michael Bennett help
Terrorists attempt to destroy Wall Street, with a cop and a female lawyer up against a clever enemy, the Green Band who are ex-Vietnam War POWs, with a shadowy US Government secret committee in the background. As with many similar action/adventure novels the totally gripping narrative ensures a fast and satisfying read. 4.5 stars.
Very Detailed Conspiracy Theory Style...Good Story and good character also...But there's a lot of better James Patterson novel out there i think...So i'm sorry that i have to give 3 stars for this...
Very goodTypical Patterson speed and non stop action. Very good quick read easily read on the train and on a cold wet night in February
