https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/363498.Devil_at_My_Heels
After reading Laura Hillenbrand's "Unbroken" I decided to read Louis Zamperini's own story in his own words.
I didn't expect much, but this book surprised me.
The books are different.
I thought this book had better balance.
His religious conversion doesn't hit one as happening sort of out of the blue as it did in Laura Hillenbrand's book.
He spends more time discussing his philanthropic ventures after his conversion such as his "Outward Bound" program for delinquent youths.
Louis is still alive at estimated age 95 and still contributing to society.
I highly recommend this book.
Some may complain that Louie spent most of his book tooting his own horn, and that Hildebrand didn't add anything substantial to the story told in the subject's own words, but I would disagree with both arguments."Devil" is written in first person with a story telling speed set at 'supersonic.' Louie was a larger than life character who became a real hero to many.
Some favorites: "People say all anyone needs is a positive attitude.
Faith is the substance of things hoped for and is complete." "What I feared most was that my generation would teach the hatred and resentment I was learning at the hands of the Japanese to our own children and the cycle of disaffection and violence would never stop." "I knew in my heart that the war--this war--was right." "All I knew was that hate was as deadly as any poison." "When there's no further hope, men always look up." "Boxed in, pushed out, whatever the pace, but I'm in the race....
This book has the soul and emotion that Unbroken lacks. I read Devil at My Heels after Unbroken, looking for inner thoughts, feelings and emotions and that it what I found. Zamperini spends much more time discussing his conversion, forgiveness, and influence, which was so curious to me in Unbroken. So I suggest reading the books in that order, as Zamperini does not include the depth and breath of information Hillenbrand writes about. Both books are worth the time. If you only want to read one, read Zamperini's and read it in his own words and emotions.
This was written in the 1950s and then four decades later, for whatever reason, Louis Zamperini used a different ghostwriter to tell his story but kept the same title.
I had been very disappointed in the newer book, but was happy that the older book was much better.I must say that I didn't read all of it, I read the first chapter or two and then started shortly before his conversion and read to the end of the book.
He went into more detail of those few years between his conversion and when the book was written.
I read this autobiography/memoir after reading Unbroken: A World War II Story of Survival, Resilience, and Redemption, which was written later (in 2010 by Laura Hillebrand of Seabiscuit fame) and that's been very popular. It detailed Louis Zamperini's life, including his time spent in Japanese POW camps during WWII. There is a lot of overlap across the books, many of the same events and particular details are covered in both, but I recommend either one (or both) for an engaging true-life story. This one has more personal details about Louie's life than Unbroken does.
Naturally, I was pleased to learn that the man himself had written a book telling the story of his experiences from his own perspective, so I waited for it for weeks at the library and finally had a chance to revisit the world of this famous former Olympian.In the very first chapter, I was surprised by the number of experiences from his childhood that hadn't been mentioned in Unbroken, and, knowing many of the trials he would be facing in the future, I was astonished to learn how many times he had only narrowly escaped death even in his childhood.
A lot of what I'd planned to say has already been said and I have about a thousand other things to do so I'll make this review quick.In a really funny twist of fate, in my modern art class today, we talked about the art done by the Japanese after the atom bombs.
After today's lesson, it hit me that those bombs were thrown by Louie and people like him.
I know this is going to make people angry, but yes, I did feel he was tooting his horn quite a bit.
I feel truly happy to know this extraordinary story.
I don't think amazing quite does this book justice; unbelievable is more like it. It has been years since I read it but his account of surviving 47 days at sea on a rubber raft stuck with me. Imagine eating shark and albatross flesh, both of which he said smelled very bad until you got really hungry. Yet this is only part of his story; his life as an Olympic athlete, POW and more are all here. Zamperini gets my vote as the greatest of the greatest generation.
This book is a great read, full of action and a lot of twists and turns. The best thing about it is that all of it is real. I thought it was easy to read,captivating and almost impossible to put down. I love true stories like this, and Louis Zamperini's impossible trek through WWII is absolutely incredible. I highly recommend it for anyone interested in WWII.
"To me, heroes are guys with missing arms or legs - or lives - and the families they've left behind. All I did in the war was survive. My trouble reconciling the reality with the perception is partly why I slid into anger and alcoholism and almost lost my wife, family, and friends before I hit bottom, looked up - literally and figuratively - and found faith instead." While Unbroken is the best known tale of Louis Zamperini's life, Devil at My Heels is Zamperini's own account of his story.Hillen
While Unbroken is the best known tale of Louis Zamperini's life, Devil at My Heels is Zamperini's own account of his story.Hillenbrand's version comes off cleaner and enraptures readers more quickly since she's a professional author and has a wealth of experience writing books people love.Yet Zamperini's book (which he coauthored with David Rensin) gives a much more complete look at the man's life.
But if you've read that already and want to know more about the late Louis Zamperini, I definitely recommend checking out Devil at My Heels.
This book tells and shows the life of Louis Zamperini.
who survived two years in a Japanese prison camp.
In this book you felt like you were right there experiencing everything he went through and how he survived.
I would really recommend this book to everyone.
I didn't think I'd like it because I'm more into realistic fiction and fantasy books but I actually loved reading this book and couldn't put it down.
It really made me appreciate things more seeing everything he went through and how he forgave the people who imprisoned him.
Following this story is so inspiring, it's truly amazing what a person can endure, survive, and then flourish.
A much more personal read than Laura Hillenbrand's "Unbroken". If you read Unbroken, read this as well!
“I never met General MacArthur, but with all due respect, I have never agreed when he said, “Old soldiers never die, they just fade away.” Fade away? You should make your life count right up to the last minute.”
just too weird !!!!Air Canada plane makes emergency landing at Pearson amid reports of falling debrisAn Air Canada flight carrying 318 passengers had to conduct an emergency landing Monday afternoon amid reports that hot chunks of blackened metal were falling from the sky and damaging cars in Mississauga.Peel police said they believe the falling metal came from the plane but that the Transportation Safety Board of Canada will be able to determine the source in their assessment.Air Canada Flight 001 took off at about 2:10 p.m. and was en route to Narita, Japan when one of the two engines shut down.
If ever you need a role model, Louis is it. Sheer force of will, and at the end, a belief in Jesus, kept him going against the most extraordinary odds. An amazing man, amazing story. Great reviews and I need add nothing more, except perhaps he had a great sense of humor. How did they while away the time on the life boat? They prayed. "Of course, on life rafts that’s what you mostly do: you pray."
Book Review by Sharon Powers.I have reviewed on my blog, Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand; it is her book about Louis Zamperini.
If you would like to take a look at Unbroken, you can find it on my blog: Sharon's Love of Books at: http://sharonsloveofbooks.blogspot.com/I do mention Devil at My Heels in the blog post as a comparison of the two books.
You might want to know that between the two books, I like this book better (Devil at My Heels).Book Review:I first read Unbroken by Laura Hillenbrand because I knew the book-to-movie was going to be coming to the big screen (Christmas Day, December 25, 2014).
After 47 days on a raft, he and one other survivor, were captured by the Japanese and taken as prisoners of war.
This is a story of a man's battle for safety, security, and most importantly survival.
I enjoyed reading this book because it truly makes you stop to think about the horrors of war.
While reading I couldn't possibly imagine how he survived what he went through.
To me it makes the story all the more fascinating, because as you read it so many thoughts are going through your head at one time.
Laura Hillenbrand's Unbroken (previously reviewed) piqued my interest in the story of Louis Zamperini, so when I found that he had actually published his autobiography in 2003, of course I had to read it.
Unbroken was an excellent book and very well-researched, however it seemed to lack Mr. Zamperini's thoughts, feelings, point of view, and it was that omission I was seeking to fill by reading this book.
However, it was a good book, certainly worth the time I spent reading it, and I would recommend it to anyone who read Unbroken and came away wanting more.
I discovered this book at an airport and put it on my kindle to read at some point.
About the same time I ran across Devil at My Heels on my kindle and started to read it.
I had the time to read some each day and I was hooked.
I wasn't wild about the writing style -- he tends to jump around and I had to stop to put the pieces together from time-to-time -- but the content is absolutely amazing.
And it was amazing that he would recognize God's hand in all of it....waaaay after the fact!
As the cover blurb will probably tell you he survived over a month adrift at sea during WWII when his plane went down and then he was picked up by the Japanese and was a prisoner.
He certainly caused a lot of trouble in his youth too.All that would make an interesting story, but the real story is the power of forgiveness.
He certainly had good reason to be bitter but it was destroying his life.
It's a good lesson that forgiveness is a good and even necessary thing, even and probably especially when it is justified.
"DEVIL AT MY HEELS" by Louis Zamperini is an astonishing and way past amazing story about his life.
At first Louis did not go down the right path.
All of his family tried to get him on the right track but no one besides his brother was able to.
His brother was in track and field and encouraged Louis to try.
When he finally showed up people called him a hero.
Even though he survived all that his definition of a hero is someone who loses and arm, leg, or even dies.
I highly suggest people read this and find out more amazing details.
This gentleman just gave a speech at my son's school.
His story is so amazing.
He cheated death so many times, and never knew why.
He was called "Lucky Louie!".
Only after he returned, got married, and was dealing with stress by drinking did he become a Christian!
His wife took him to hear Billy Graham, and has lived his life for Christ ever since!
The book is not religious at all.
It tells his incredible story, and only at the end describes his religious conversion.
God saved his life so many times, so that some day he could touch the lives of others.
Devil At My Heels provided a whole new perspective on World War 2. It gave an inside look on what really occurred in the POW camps set up in Japan. Although some parts of the book were slow at times, that was only a result of lots of in-depth descriptions. I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in World War 2 or history, or if you want an incredible true story, told by Louis Zamperini himself.
LOVED this story! What an amazing life Louis Zamperini lived. I had tried to read Unbroken a few years ago - which is also a story about Louis - but I couldn't finish it. This book? I couldn't put it down! I immediately recommended this book to my mom. Incredible story!!!
Absolutely inspiring. Louie Zamperini is a real man of God and has lived an amazingly inspiring life. This book makes you want to live every moment as if it was your last and count your blessings every second of your life. Amazing!
A great read and an inspirational book- couldn't put it down at times! Probably not a good book to read just before bed though as the action keeps you awake for hours afterward!A really amazing story!
This was a really great book which, like many things in life, was RUINED by religion.For 70% of the book I loved the story - what an adventure! And then Louis found "God". And so the remaining 30% of the book he talked about "God"... NON STOPCompletely ruined an otherwise fantastic book.
I think I liked this book better than "Unbroken". I have read that one twice and I gave it five stars as well. This one is more Louie. I like that it goes deeper into his conversion. The other book really just closes with it. "To who much has been given, much is expected".
