https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/268598.Loyalty_in_Death
<3And let me tell you this (again and again), OMG I'll never, ever get tired of reading this series because I love Roarke & Eve so freaking much.
Peabody gaped, flushed, thenstammered out, "Excuse me." "Just leaving," Roarke said, patting the bandage back in place while Eve ground her teeth.
"I got this little nick right here." She rubbed her finger at her jawline, heart fluttering pleasantly when he smiled at her.
We've got a report to write for the commander." "I almost got blown up and got kissed by Roarke all in the same morning.
Another good read. Honestly, the mystery/suspense kinda went over my head in this one. I wanted more of Eve and Roarke but I don't think that is going to happen in this series... she has her job and the criminal activities are to the fore of the books. Eve and Roarke are in there, to whet our appetites. Out of the dark, out of the delicate mist, the lady rose up.  "What's this?""I think it's a very sick, mutant rose. I bought it for you."It was so rare to see Roarke taken by surprise, she nearly
I wanted more of Eve and Roarke but I don't think that is going to happen in this series...
Eve and Roarke are in there, to whet our appetites.
"What's this?""I think it's a very sick, mutant rose.
I bought it for you."It was so rare to see Roarke taken by surprise, she nearly laughed.
His gaze met hers and she thought - hoped - it might have been baffled pleasure she saw there before he looked down at the rose again."You brought me a flower.""I think it's sort of traditional.
Fight, flowers, make up.""Darling Eve."
Number nine in my reread of this series and I had seriously forgotten how good these earlier books were. I was amazed in this one at how involved Roarke was in Eve's work having thought this was something which developed later in the series. Loved the relationship between Roarke and Eve ( reach for the tissues!) and laughed out loud at all the Eve/Roarke and Eve/Peabody interactions. An easy five stars:)
I liked the personal story with the side characters better than the actual storyline of the bomber.
I don't know why the bombing thing didn't do it for me as well as the past murderers, but I think it is because the serial killer books felt less impersonal.
The bombings were just giant catastrophes that felt sad, but not personal at all.
And, it was a story about bombing monuments and such.
It's a match made in heaven!When they have illegal elevator sex?Peabody: 
Nothing like a little elevator sex to start a ship sailing.Okay, going to listen to some Aerosmith now.
For the first time I didn't want so much of Eve and Roarke as I was starving for Peabody and McNab. Could you believe these two?
I loved the addition of Zeke, Peabody's brother, to the story and how J.D. Robb implicated him in the plot.
I loved Mavis soft side and how she handled the situation with Zeke after the revelations.
But I have one question and I really don't know if there is an answer: Would Eve be such a succesful cop in solving the mysteries, as fast and efficient as she does, if she weren't married to Roarke?
(We still love them though).
I adore these books, but this one isn't my favorite in the series.
Maybe I reread it too close to 9/11 and it just made me too sad, or maybe it was just too much wanton destruction.
But it was hard to connect to any of the characters except, of course,McNab and Peabody.
*sigh*Reread July 2018 — My feelings on this book have improved with time.
Although the wanton destruction in NYC still makes my heart hurt, I can appreciate the story more.
But, the beginning of the romance between Peabody and McNab makes me so happy!
I loved this book...
I loved the intriguing story, the unbelievable plot twists and all that "cop work".But I hated both Roarke and Eve in some parts of the book.
They both have a problem with boundaries....as in, they have none!
The girl needs to learn that some things she needs to get her nose out of!And Roarke should have more respect for Eve's job and only interfere after she asks for help.
I don't enjoy the fact that he thinks he has a right to stick his nose in her cases.
Still disorganized with no time for a proper review. LOVED IT. LOVED IT. LOVED IT. LOVED IT. LOVED IT. LOVED IT.You get the point. ❤ Roarke & Eve.....everything about them.and❤ Peabody & McNab.....these two make me laugh.
I simply loved them in this book.
I loved that we got a deeper look at Peabody and her family, but he was a little too childlike for me.
I've come to love the whole cast.
I really love that each plot in this series (so far) is so distinctly different.
It took us away from our usual stomping grounds and forced Eve to rely on some new people.
I also liked how things wound around and connected Eve's cases together.Eve and Roarke had a few marital disagreements in this book, which I liked.
I have to admit that part way through this book I was deciding if this was a series I would give up.
Facing the crisis that she did in the last book, I thought Eve would grow as a person, but nope, she was back to her old bullying ways.
Finally, Roarke with a backbone and a repentant Eve. Ok, I decided I'm back on board with this series.
My favorite part of this book was finally seeing McNabb and Peabody together and it was everything I hoped it would be.
(I also can't get enough of Peabody and McNabb)
Reading this series mostly feels am watching my fave crime/mystery tv series. Each instalment is like an episode. Some are good, some aren't so, while the going-ons in the lives of the MCs and SCs keep it engaging and interesting. This instalment, felt a little weak as far as the ongoing mystery was concerned (view spoiler)[ the connection between the supposed two different cases (as we are led to believe, initially) felt a bit too contrived (hide spoiler)]. For me, the story only picked up pace
Reading this series mostly feels am watching my fave crime/mystery tv series. Each instalment is like an episode. Some are good, some aren't so, while the going-ons in the lives of the MCs and SCs keep it engaging and interesting. This instalment, felt a little weak as far as the ongoing mystery was concerned (view spoiler)[ the connection between the supposed two different cases (as we are led to believe, initially) felt a bit too contrived  (hide spoiler)]. For me, the story only picked up pace in the second half of the book. Onto the next one...
3.5-4 stars - Romantic Suspense/Sci-Fi/Futuristic/ThrillerAlthough I continue to love this series and can never possibly get enough of Roarke, this was my least favorite so far. Eve's not always an easy character to like, but she seemed particularly bitchy this time around. Normally I understand her gruff, moody personality and respect her tough, no-nonsense attitude, but she grated on me in this one. The suspense plot was a bit confusing and felt too abruptly resolved. Still, this series is brilliant, and I'll keep reading for more Roarke!
Review to come!
Eve and Roarke have been married 6 months now are their relationship has really started to cement however Eve still suffers from some insecurities that cause her to give Roarke a hard time and she also dislikes him getting too involved in her work.
Despite all that they make a great team and Roarke's help is invaluable when time is of the essence and the obtaining of sensitive data or new fangled equipment is involved.In this volume of the series a terrorist group called Cassandra are blowing up buildings and killing people while demanding money and criminals released from jail.
Peabody herself starts a new relationship and Roarke and Eve work out the kinks in their relationship.
First read in June 2014Re-read Dec. 2016
“I ♥ Roarke” tee-shirt from www.jdrobb.com ★★★★★ Okay, I can’t believe I read the paperback instead of listening to the fabulous Ms. Ericksen on audiobook, but I did. I had to have my Roarke fix, LOL! Some of you may know, I did the  stupidest  thing and, after listening to the first few chapters, erased my library copy of the downloadable audiobook of this one from my iPod/Touch, putting me back on the waitlist at #5. I checked the stacks – and even the hardcopies were checked out! Eep! So, I h
“I ♥ Roarke” tee-shirt from www.jdrobb.com ★★★★★ Okay, I can’t believe I read the paperback instead of listening to the fabulous Ms. Ericksen on audiobook, but I did.
I had to have my Roarke fix, LOL!
thing and, after listening to the first few chapters, erased my library copy of the downloadable audiobook of this one from my iPod/Touch, putting me back on the waitlist at #5.
So, I had to go to the Brick & Mortar Bookstore and purchase a copy of this one (yeah, I know, twist my arm, LOL!).Anyway, it was worth every penny.
(hide spoiler)]!
Always awesome...no matter how many times I read it! This is early in the series, and Eve and Roarke are still 'feeling out the boundaries'...so to speak. This makes for a perfect mix of tension and passion. Omg...the ending on top of the Statue of Liberty never gets old...epic awesomeness abounds, indeed!
In review of last book I said I can't give this series less than 5 stars, and here I am giving it four.
I loved this one. There were some great Eve and Roarke moments (and good forward movement for Eve's character) but also a lot of character development for others. The Peabody focus wasa game changer for me with this book because it just added more dimensions.
An old terrorist organization has come back from the dead to terrorize New York. They might have bombs, anonymity, funding, and time but New York has Eve fucking Dallas.No contest.
Review later.
That said, the character development and dialogue make this a series to return to over and over.
The relationships really stand out in this installment whether it is Peabody and McNab taking an interesting step in their love/hate relationship; Eve realizing that marriage to Roarke will require a change in attitude, or the hints at some intriguing things to come with Eve's mother.In sum, a fast-paced and enjoyable read.
*Reread in October, 2016. Another good one in the In Death series! I found this case to be intense & complicated. As always, I find Eve's mind fascinating as she works through cases. I enjoyed meeting some of Peabody's family with her brother's visit as she is easily my favorite of the "side" characters. The character relationship development is ever evolving and my favorite part of this series. Roarke is . . . simply Roarke - Perfect! A Must Read!
My first J.D. Robb and I loved it! It's Nora Robert under the penname. As everyone already knows, she's a fabulous writer!It just took me to my childhood days when I used to read Nancy Drew and fall asleep. Just gives that feeling here. It's a future based series with Eve, a bad-ass cop and Roarke? He's just amazing at whatever he does, which is, being nosy and helping his wife!
3.5 starsI liked this one but the villains left much to be desired, their motive did not quite gel as the other books in the series. Still an enjoyable ride.Peabody and McNab <3
And I love JD Robb's writing style.This story had so many twists and turns, I thought I knew what was going on and then it would turn a different way and I'd have to start over again.
I also loved that Eve is starting to accept the fact that she is human and not a droid so she has emotions and that's ok.
I love the way that Roarke is able to give her what she needs.I'm going to to *try* to give myself little breaks in between books as to not get burned out, but man, this series is fantastic!
Also, her love life heats up, and though I saw it coming I want a lot more before they end (or don't end cause I like them together) I just think Peabody is such a fun character.
Eve and Roarke as usual were awesome, they are just such a great and fun couple, and I think the way that their relationship is progressing is awesome.
Even the little hiccups are perfect cause we see serious character development with the resolution of each of them.
I love Roarke he is just such a great leading man, he makes so many others seem so out there.
Peabody's backstory gets fleshed out a bit more when we get to meet her brother Zeke and learn a bit more about Freeagers and their philosophy.
Her first bounce with McNabb is a light bit of entertainment to keep the massive body count from becoming too depressing.
The whole story is constructed well.
I felt a bit like Peabody when I first read it, trying to figure out who the bad guys were and why, like I was always a step behind Eve. Knowing the end results just makes watching the craft behind the story structure that much more entertaining.
Each of them are just as important to this world as the other, and despite Eve's best efforts to the contrary, they're her family.
Eve might have trouble expressing how she feels about the people important to her but Officer Delia Peabody had no problems at all with it.
(view spoiler)[McNab and Peabody finally gave it up!!
I was damn impressed when McNab snarled right back at Eve and didn't let her warn him off Peabody.
I loved that she was important enough to him to fight for her.
But before I talk about the ending, let’s start from page one...My favourite cop, Lieutenant Eve Dallas has a murder case where a wife has literally screwed her husband over.
And that is how I came to love this series, and especially this book.Robb has the ability to take hold of your heartstrings and thug until you feel that ache in your chest.
Some of the events in this book shattered a lot of the characters, including the rocksteady Lieutenant we all know and love.
I really loved his presence in this one.But it’s the other Peabody that made this book for me!
