https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129117.The_Spellman_Files
As the kidnapping plot slowly unfolds, Izzy reveals what got the Spellman family to that point, a hilarious tale of mistrust, familial surveillance, and lies.Mysteries, especially those purported to be humorous, aren't generally known for their well-drawn characters but the Spellmans and those unfortunate enough to get pulled into their orbits all seemed like real people to me.
Izzy's battles against her family's constant surveillance manage to be hilariously outlandish while still being in the realm of possibility.I think this book worked for me while other "humor" mysteries failed is the way it was structured, mostly being an exploration of the Spellman family rather than a straightforward mystery.
This book won’t work for some, but head into it in the right frame of mind and it’s a fun ride, a modern screwball comedy crossed with spy caper, Harriet the Spy meets Claire DeWitt and the City of the Dead.Isabel is a private investigator in the family business, Spellman Investigations.
The romance plot is a series of harebrained schemes that escalate from one little lie.Plotting is interesting; truly, the story is more about a dysfunctional family who specializes in investigative work than any specific mystery.
Note that it likely has high re-read potential, especially given it is more about character and relationships than mystery.
Zauvek ću pamtiti kako me je ova knjiga "kupila" kao urednika :) Dobila sam od njenog agenta rukopis knjige mesecima pre nego što je objavljena...
odštampala sam je i ponela papire sa sobom na Sajam knjiga u London, da čitam usput...
Te godine sajam je bio izmešten na Doklends i gotovo sat vremena putovali smo metroom od hotela do sajma i obrnuto...
I ja sam vukla papire sa sobom, čitala, cerebečila se i svaki cas cimala za rukav vlasnika Lagune i prepričavala mu urnebesne scene iz teksta...
imate mlađu sestru napast i starijeg uštogljenog brata...
i imate dosta budućih bivših frajera br.
I'm one of those people who will forgive anything of a movie or a novel as long as I enjoy the characters.
And so I will not insist that anyone read this novel, although I think a person might enjoy it if he willingly chooses to read it of his own free will with no pressure from me whatsoever.
Fortunately, the directionless Izzy's past makes her a perfect employee in the family's private investigation business.
There's no real suspense here and what little there is can be easily pieced together, but that's not the real point of the novel anyway--this is a quick, light read about the bonds that hold even the most unconventional of families together.
Ovo je jedna od onih knjiga do koje ne bih došla da nema Goodreads-a, što bi bio veliki propust.Zabavna, uzbudljiva, opuštajuća, duhovita knjiga koja mami osmeh na lice od prve strane.Pratimo svakodnevnicu porodice Spelman, oni vode porodični biznis - oni su privatni detektivi, njuškala, zovite ih kako hoćete.
Imala sam negde oko 13 godina, baš kao Rej. Bio je letnji raspust, jedan od najlepših ikada.
Vodile smo tajni dnevnik, izmislile naše šifrovano pismo, imale posebne broševe kao znak pripadanja Tajnom društvu, i najbolje od svega...pratile nepoznate ljude svako veče ceo raspust!
Zato sam ja Rej Spelman, a vi knjigu u ruke i uživajte!
Beach read.
Funny read.
I-want-to-be-this-character read.
Lisa Lutz, if you ever read this, please don't take it the wrong way.
By beach read I mean that I was completely entertained, laughed out loud a couple of times, and didn't want to move while I read it.
Izzy Spellman reminded me of Thursday Next ( The Eyre Affair) and Jane Charlotte ( Bad Monkeys).
I have the galley of the follow-up ( Curse of the Spellmans) and am starting it today!
Thank you, Lisa, for Izzy, Rae, and the whole Spellman family!
Izzy eventually decides to quit the family business but is told she must take on one last case—a fifteen-year-old cold case of a young man who’d gone missing.*** I know I often complain about lack of character development, but not this time.
The book starts out with some funny scenes but quickly degrades to mildly amusing and finally to downright boring as the story plays its single theme over and over.
The cold missing-persons case was interesting but by the time it’s introduced into the story, I found myself skipping everything else around it to find out what happened with the case.
A deeply hilarious book about Isabel Spellman, a PI in San Francisco, who works for her parents' firm. The entire Spellman family is deeply weird but strangely functional. I loved it, the whole thing: the quirky anecdotes about the family, the list of ex-boyfriends, the younger sister addicted to surveillance.One small warning: before you read this book, take the concept of plot, put it in a drawer in a closet, and don't come back to it until you are done. It is a non-linear book, and it doesn't have an ordinary crime-investigation-resolution progression. You just have to roll with it.
It's not the worst thing in the world that she could have read at that age, but it has some adult content that, let's just say, I wasn't quite ready for her to be exposed to yet.
Although now I do tend to hide my adult content books in harder-to-find places.
I've since dumped the book on PBS, and I didn't feel any compelling urge to go read any more books in this series.And not just because I would have had to find a better hiding place for them.Content Advisory: Scattered F-bombs, a (non-explicit) seduction, and descriptions of drug use and teenage misbehavior (aka Things I Didn't Want My 12 y/o Reading Yet).
She quickly acquires tools for surviving in this family comprised of individuals adept at gathering intelligence and using it to their own advantage.The Spellman Files focuses principally on the characters, but a secondary story unfolds about an unresolved disappearance case.
(I love that Isabel's parents share a strong distaste for and suspicion of dentists and prefer that their daughter date lawyers.) Their differences, however, reflect in Daniel's childhood dream of working for CONTROL, the American counter-espionage agency, whereas Isabel's lifelong fantasy is working for its nemesis, KAOS.* This coupling's future is precarious at best.From start to finish, Lutz demonstrates a quick-witted humor and intelligence that immediately drew me in and captivated my attention all throughout.
If required to succinctly sum up the mode, I'd dub it family dramady.
alternatively-functional family of P.I.s in contemporary San Francisco combine variously to drive each other around the bend.
The main character reminded me of that tune of Sheryl Crow's, which I mentally dubbed "the borderline-personality girlfriend song", the title of which escapes me just now -- might have been "Man Enough to Be My Man".That poor dentist...
(aka "ex-boyfriend #9").Meanwhile, back at the meta level, I was impressed by how cleverly the writer used the potential flexibility of first-person memoir to structure the tale and control the pacing.There are more volumes in the Spellman series.
No. As a cute and funny chick-lit novel?
Yes.I asked my librarian to help me find a book that was good, but not sad, violent, or about animals (What?
I don't like sappy books about animals.) I wanted something mind-numbing to pass the time.
Something kind of funny maybe?She gave me this book and told me, "My mother really loved it!".
There's a possibility it looked more like a grimace.
But I took it anyway, because it's just been one of those weeks.Well, I guess I need to send a Thank-You note to her mother, because it was exactly what I was looking for.The plot is...hard to explain, and the mystery isn't really all that engaging.
To keep information to yourself in this family you'll need to lie, dodge tails, and constantly check for bugs.
It's an interesting lifestyle, but it's getting exhausting for Izzy.
Izzy had an interesting childhood.
She ran wild constantly and worried her family.
I also found it odd that Izzy seemed to fondly reminisce about those memories like the "glory days."I loved the author's style of writing.
Even though Izzy is the narrator, the family itself seems to be the main character, not a single person.I couldn't believe the outcome of the kidnapping at the end.
I was really surprised that Izzy took it so well.
Izuzetno lagana i lepršava knjiga.
Moram priznati da mi nije privukla pažnju sve dok nisam primetio da je dvoje prijatelja sa Goodreads-a (J.
Šteta je što izdavačka kuća nije malo poradila na sinopsisu i promociji knjige, ovako je nezasluženo završila u zapećku, zanemarena zbog nekih drugih romana koji ne zaslužuju ni upola pompe koju dobijaju (što od izdavačke kuće, što od čitalaca).Roman "Dosijei o Spelmanovima" je pravo osveženje, knjiga koja razvedrava ovo tmurno i kišovito vreme...Šta reći nego da su Izabel i Rej carice i da čitalac prosto ne može da ne uživa u njihovim glupostima i nestašlucima.
Annoying people doing stupid things does not automatically equal funny.
I found it refreshing and funny and although the Spellman family is bizarre, weird and bordering on completely insane, I simply adored this dysfunctional family.Isabel, who is the main protagonist and tells the story from a first person narrative, is such a great character.
I am really looking forward to reading the next book in the series, The Spellman's Curse, and finding out what other mischief Isabel and her family can get themselves into.
Criticized by her perfect older brother, emulated by her younger sister and hounded by her parents, Izzy’s life borders on the edge of insanity, which she desperately wants to escape.Sharp-tongued, Izzy Spellman has even reduced her failing love life to a list of wise-cracking facts- name, age, relationship length and ‘famous last words.’ Izzy discovers potential ‘ex-boyfriend #9′ while working the case of Daniel Castillo.
When she discovers her parents have Rae following her, it is the straw that broke the proverbial camel’s back and Izzy quits.Of course, this hard-nosed, scheming family isn’t going to just wither-up and go away, so they offer Izzy a deal…solve this one last case and she is free of her contract.
The book's first half spent way too much time on the family's background story. At first, the actions of the characters were mildly amusing; but then the author repeated the same humorous actions over and over until they became predictable and boring. This is the first book in a mystery series, but no mystery appears until half-way through the book. After that, the story gets a little interesting. I doubt I will read the next book in this series. A quick read, but nothing special.
The Spellmans are a collection of quirky, self-possessed psychopaths in a family that operates a detective agency.The main character is 28-year-old Izzy [Isabel] who tries to leave the family and the business to find a more normal life.
Her parents and younger sister Rae, 14, tap the same arsenal to track her because they feel she may slip back to her former hard-drinking ways.Running parallel to the main plot is the bizarre saga of Izzy's love-life.
I loved the writing, the characters and the over-the-top cat and mouse game the Spellmans played more with each other than anyone under investigation.At one point, Izzy smashes the headlight of the car her mother was driving.
Zaista se ne sećam kada sam se toliko zabavljao uz neku knjigu i odmah veliko HVALA GR-u i posebno Tei Jovanović što je (između ostalog i meni) skrenula pažnju na ovaj roman.
Svi njihovi slučajevi, međusobna praćenja, zvrčke koje su smeštali jedni drugima, Izini momci i epitafi koje su dobijali, veza sa zubarom Danijelom itd.
itd.....
sve to, a i mnogo više dovešće do toga da će te svaku stranicu iščitati ako ne glasno se smejući onda sigurno non stop sa osmehom na licu.Pa kad zaželite da se odmorite od nekih "ozbiljnijih" tema, iskreno preporučujem ovu knjigu jer dobijate zaista prvoklasnu zabavu.
This one was okay. A few parts a heck of a lot better than others but not as good as I was hoping for. This was a recommendation from my library's manager directly to me. I wish it had been better as there are more books that come after this. I don't know if I will read them at this point.
Boring storyline and writing style, annoying characters, pathetic, totally irritating 'heroine'.Not recommended.
Messed-up-family drama would have been fine if a) the characters had really been fleshed out (the real cipher is dad; mom is one-note; some of the other characters (Rae) fare a bit better); b) the plot had been less jumbled (the author deliberately starts about 4 plots at once, and, although I was drawn in, it's a lot to ask of a reader to keep waiting and waiting patiently for the mystery to start while the main character deals with relationship issues.
It is interesting that what I’d consider disturbing and child abuse in real life can, in a book, cause me to feel affection for all of the characters and send me into frequent peals of laughter.The friend who recommended this to me knew I’d love it, because when we were young, we did a bit of “detective work” of our own.This is for the most part a joyous romp and one of those just for fun reads.
Except!: Toward the end it gets very serious in three sub-plots and does so in a way that feel incongruous with the rest of the story, even though for one instance the reader is warned what will happen from practically the beginning of the book.
Newsflash: boring title conceals highly entertaining book!!!
Thanks to Amy for giving it a rave review and piquing my interest :-)*I started out loving this book, but then ...
It begins with lots of really fun character set-up, then there is a whiff of a plot, then there is more set-up, and then ...
more set-up and more set-up.
Finally there is a plot!
The mystery was mildly interesting, but by that point I pretty much hated everyone in the book.
I'll give the second book in this series a try, see how it goes ...
That in and of itself is not unusual, but the particular form her family’s dysfunction takes is quite different – the family business is a private detective firm and snooping and blackmailing each other is a way of life for all family members, from the middle-aged parents down to Isabel’s tough-as-nails 14-year-old sister.
After negotiating with her parents, Isabel is persuaded to take one final detective case for the family before being free to make her own life.This light read was perfect for what I needed right now.
Surprisingly for a book of this genre, it took an awfully long time for the actual story to get started as we were treated to heavily detailed background information on Isabel and her family.
My perspective on The Spellman Files was a bit different this time, as I reread it after reading all the books as they were released.
I enjoyed it at least as much this time, and I was definitely more invested in the characters.
Izzy had to look at her life and see if she is going in a direction that is right for her.I really enjoyed rereading this book.
It was great to see the characters in the the beginning of the series again and to revisit what was going on in their lives.
I can't decide if I want to give this four or five stars....I loved the book.. I loved Isabelle's voice and commentary.. And Christina Moore's narration was perfect <3I am going to re-listen soon/right away I think, maybe? I don't know?I can't think right now because motorised gardening implements >_<
I read to get a break from my willful child, not suffer through a narrative detailing the actions of someone exactly like him.
Everything that had to do with Izzy and not the rest of her family was funny enough to warrant three stars, but I don’t find myself terribly interested in continuing the series.
If you’re looking for a diversion from serious literature and you like quirky characters, The Spellman Files may be your thing. I certainly liked it well enough. Isabel “Izzy” Spellman is 28, and still lives at home with her family of private investigators. She’s no angel and the others have their faults too. It’s not a peaceful abode. No one hesitates to slash another’s tires to keep them from running ‘house arrest’. Things get serious when the youngest daughter, Rea, goes missing, and the family has to work together to find her.
