https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295148.Crossing_the_Water
"PAPOILAS EM JULHOPequenas papoilas, pequenas chamas infernais,sois inofensivas?Estremeceis. Não posso tocar-vos.Ponho as minhas mãos por entre as chamas. Mas nada queima.E fico exausta quando vos vejoestremecer assim, pregueadas e rubras como a pele da boca.Uma boca há pouco ensanguentada.Pequenas orlas de sangue!Há nela um fumo que não consigo tocar.Onde está o vosso ópio, as vossas cápsulas nauseabundas?Se eu pudesse esvair-me em sangue ou dormir!...Se a minha boca conseguisse desposar uma tal ferida!Ou os vossos licores me penetrassem, nesta cápsula de vidro,trazendo-me a acalmia e o silêncio.Mas sem cor. Sem nenhuma cor."(Georgia O'Keeffe)
I cannot put my finger on the source of the magic Plath works on me.
When I read her poems it's as if a sister has come and taken my hand in the darkness.
I can't criticise; I'm an adoring fan.Yet.I read aloud and I cannot get music.
Plath is not perfect, I can see that now, so I can see where she is strong: in her fearlessness in mining the depths, in her glacial clarity, in her sharp wit and tender wisdom.She writes so much about women: her own experience as a woman, of the female body, of female roles.
43* * *Black lake, black boat, two black, cut-paper people.Where do the black trees go that drink here?Their shadows must cover Canada.A little light is filtering from the water flowers.Their leaves do not wish us to hurry:They are round and flat and full of dark advice.Cold worlds shake from the oar.The spirit of blackness is in us, it us in the fishes.A snag is lifting a valedictory, pale hand;Stars open among the lilies.Are you not blinded by such expressionless sirens?This is the silence of astounded souls.- Crossing the Water, pg.
Plath's poems in this beautiful and haunting collection are akin to the sensation of gripping an ice cube in the palm of your hand.
It was deserted--/A gallery of creaking porches and still interiors/Stopped and awful as a photograph of somebody laughing/But ten years dead.""On this bald hill the new year hones its edge/Faceless and pale as china""The night sky is only a sort of carbon paper/Blueblack, with the much-poked periods of stars/Letting in the light, peephole after peephole"A must read for all lovers of poetry and Plath and beauty, "Crossing the Waters" is every bit as powerful (if not more so) than "Colossus" or "Ariel."
"Stars open among the lilies.Are you not blinded by such expressionless sirens?This is the silence of astounded souls."Crossing the WaterSome: the most beautiful, utterly moving, prose.Others: lackluster, mediocre, bland."Your absence is inconspicuous;Nobody can tell what I lack."Parliament Hill Fields
Sylvia Plath is a genius. Some of my favorites are Wuthering Heights, Blackberrying, Mirror. But really, I loved them all so much I've picked up Johnny Panic and the Bible of Dreams again, which I had never finished. Finishing Crossing the Water makes me want to read everything Plath.
This book makes me wonder why no one tried to stop her from killing herself.
This is the silence of astounded souls.
A paixão entre a luz e a escuridão.“… O teu dia aproxima-se… as horas de escuridão… iluminam os céus
I must confess, I always thought that, while she was certainly a good poet, Plath was never much to my taste. Evidently I was mistaken in only drawing my judgement from Ariel, as Crossing the Water really did fall into line with the kind of poetry that appeals to me.Favourites:— Finisterre— Heavy Women— Insomniac— I am Vertical— Widow— Magi— Love Letter— Small Hours— Last Words— Ouija— Two Sisters of Persephone— Maenad— Witchburning— Crossing the Water
Quite possibly my favorite book of poems by Sylvia Plath--and that is saying something as she is one of my favorite poets. This particular books speaks to me deeply in so many ways. The poem "Insomniac" is so personal for me, and so beautifully wrought. I highly recommend this book.
Harsh, severe, and beatiful, Plath shines within the genre of poetry.
obsessed.
Brilliant as usual, Sylvia!
Love.

Published posthumously in 1971 by her estranged husband, the poet Ted Hughes, Sylvia Plath’s Crossing the Water is a collection of poems that reveals Plath at her most transitional and methodical.
Titled after the last poem in the collection, Crossing the Water signifies the act of doing so in the most literal sense: some poems are risky and thrilling, like being caught in an undertow, while others are placid yet expansive as a lake at dawn.
A figure of speech Plath uses in this collection perhaps even more than the simile is personification.
I love Sylvia. Her poetry speaks to you, such a epic book.
4.5Plath blew my mind once again.
Crossing the WaterBlack lake, black boat, two black, cut-paper people.Where do the black trees go that drink here?Their shadows must cover Canada.A little light is filtering from the water flowers.Their leaves do not wish us to hurry:They are round and flat and full of dark advice.Cold worlds shake from the oar.The spirit of blackness is in us, it is in the fishes.A snag is lifting a valedictory, pale hand;Stars open among the lilies.Are you not blinded by such expressionless sirens?This is the silence of astounded souls.
In this collection, the water becomes a metaphor for the surface veneer that many of us carry, but Plath examines how easily this surface can be shaken and disturbed.In “Finisterre,” “Now it is only gloomy, a dump of rocks–/Leftover soldiers from old, messy wars./The sea cannons into their ear, but they don’t budge./Other rocks hide their grudges under the water.//” (page 15) Plath examines the aging process and the grudges carried from the past into the present and how that sullies the outside like the weathering of a rock face.
The poem further flourishes into a series of worshiping people looking to that which is beyond themselves, particularly the larger “Lady of the Shipwrecked” who admires the sea as the man worships her and the peasant worships the sailor.Read the full review: http://savvyverseandwit.com/2013/04/c...
I was given this little collection by my boyfriend so I could have some reading material for returning home on a 7 hour bus ride.
It wasn't, however, until later on that I would pick it up and actually go through it.This collection, put together by Sylvia's ex-husband Ted Hughes, is one of those gems you never think you would come across, because there is serious beauty in the entries, but also some serious insight into Plath's mind, which is common for her works.
I enjoy reading Plath, whose poems are very accessible. She uses concrete descriptions in her imagery, creative comparisons with her metaphors, similar to what a reader would find in her novel The Bell Jar. I had read "Mirror" years ago as a child and had not known the poet at the time, so it was a delight coming across the familiar words again in this collection. For my friends who tend to shy away from poems due to their "loftiness" or "intentional ambiguity," Crossing the Water is a collection I'd highly recommend they try!
My favorites: "Candles"; "Last Words"; "A Life" (especially the ending); the bit about the sheep's slot-like eyes in "Wuthering Heights". An atmospheric collection that balances tenuously between the stonily impersonal (The Colossus) and the blazingly personal (Ariel).An excerpt from "Last Words":"I do not trust the spirit. It escapes like steamIn dreams, through mouth-hole or eye-hole. I can't stop it.One day it won't come back. Things aren't like that.They stay, their little particular lustersWarmed by much handling."
Read Sylvia Plath for the first time -- fucking amazing. From The Zoo Keeper's Wife: [You wooed me with wolf-headed bats hanging from their scorched hooks in the moist Fug of the Small Mammal House. The armadillo dozed in his sandbin obscene and bald as a pig, the white mice mulitiplied to infinity like angels on a pinhead out of sheer boredom. Tangled in the sweat-wet sheets I remember the bloodied chicks and quartered rabbits.]
These "transitional" poems of Crossing the Water bridge Sylvia Plath's early work to her gritting, inspired poetry of the final year of her life. Readers will be able to see that while the poems are rooted in reality, Plath is beginning her journey toward the almost hallucinatory work as she approached suicide.These are beautiful, substantial poems on the way to the blazing glory of Ariel and the final works of her life.
These poems were just... Wow. Her poems flow and are so delicately strung together. I am really starting to like her poetry! This is a haunting collection of her poems, and since a lot of her poems have underlying meanings of death, I feel this was a journey to her suicide, something to fulfill. She comes across fragile, like something glued back together, not very well. I really hope her writing these poems helped her in some way.
Not as good as Ariel, but still a wonderful, and painful, read. Plath's imagery is like no other, her poems have a distinctive feel I can find nowhere else. They are disturbing, yet beautiful. Depressing, and impressive. Her poetry makes me write myself. My favourite in this particular collection must have been "Who". It resounded in me. I read it again and again.
Brushing up on Plath for a presentation. This collection of 9 poems comes from the years between THE COLOSSUS and ARIEL, 1960 to late 1961. Reading this, as a stand-alone book, really reminds me that was an excellent poet when the words came to her. Girl could write. Her death was a tragic thing. It's too bad her work is often overshadowed by her death.
This is my first time reading Plath's work. All of these poems were written beautifully! My favorites were Face Lift, Dark Hose, A Life, Witch Burning,Widow, Love Letter, The Surgeon at 2 A.M., and of course Crossing the Water. I look forward to reading more of her work. Crossing the Water is basically the perfect collection of poems.
