https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/358902.The_Weapon_Shops_of_Isher
Now i first read this book, some time back in the late 70s when I was on a big A.E. van Vogt kick.
I thoroughly enjoyed it then, thoroughly enjoyed it over the intervening years, and thoroughly enjoyed it again over the last few days.Its a great story, in the golden age style.
I love van Vogt's writing style and this book epitomises his mastery of the classic space opera tale.
Given the chance I would love to rekindle my love affair with vV and head off on another vV book fest, maybe soon eh ?
In fact we have two such characters, as we do in Slan--one the hero and the other working behind the scenes to create the plot, itself.And in the vein of such characters, they are so morally upright that they resolve never to use these powers for any nefarious purpose, instead making it their goal to better all of mankind--which is lucky, since they could clearly take over the whole government tomorrow, if they so desired.This irresistible force tends to undermine the story's conflict, but of the Van Vogt stories I have read, it is least problematic here, since at least the hero suffers the robberies, cheating, and kidnapping which any good noir hero must survive.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. This is a great example of the "big idea" science fiction classic. Set thousands of years in the future, the story revolves around the struggle between a corrupt empire and the mysterious "weapon shops" that provide the population with a means to insure that the government can never become all powerful. Libertarian SF at its best and arguably Van Vogt's best book ever.
Still these are wonderful books and of course they will provoke thought and debate.The weapons shops exist basically to keep the totalitarian government of the Empress Isher from being able to take the last step to complete totalitarianism.
That is they exist to provide individual citizens with weapons for self defense.
The Shops also provide an alternate court system for some things and prevent the complete domination of the despotic government.
The weapons shops moto, repeated often in the book is: "The right to own weapons is the right to be free".
During my teen years, when I thought that A.E. van Vogt could do no wrong, I somehow missed reading The Weapon Shops of Isher.
Van Vogt writes:When a people lose the courage to resist encroachment on their rights, then they can't be saved by an outside force.
The hero of the novel is one Cayle Clark who is at the same time a protege of the empire and of the weapon shops, whose divergent aims he attempts to reconcile.
Enter the Weapon Shops of Isher who hold that the right to buy guns is the right to be free.
The Weapon Shops won't sell guns to just *anyone* -- agents of the government are incapable of even getting in the front door.
(The absence of weapon shops at one point unnerves a character who doesn't even own a gun but is looking for their presence) The Shop ultimately believes people have the kind of government they want/allow--the shop is not here to overthrow the system but rather to be the final line any system must not cross.
For against her stand the impregnable Weapon Shops, their immortal leader Robert Hedrock and a man from the 20th century with terrifying power.’Blurb from the 1974 New English Library paperback editionVan Vogt had a definite talent for writing narratives which had that David Lynch quality of abstracted weirdness; elements which didn’t really belong but seemed to fit nevertheless.Here we are in the year 4784 AD.
This explanation, it has to be said, does not bear close examination.The familiar van Vogt hallmarks are here; the giant building, the logical alpha male (Robert Hedrock), the feudalistic society existing alongside fantastic technology, the esoteric organisation operating inside exoteric society, the young man with superior powers.One can almost pick out the elements which Philip K Dick (self-confessedly influenced by Van Vogt) employed in his own work.
The Weapon Shops of Isher is classic golden age adventure science fiction the likes of which is no longer seen today.
Hard core feminists will declare misogyny, but that is not actually the case; Van Vogt was writing in a time when the role of women was never seen as something that would change, or if it did, change only in ways that complemented the wife/housemaker/mother paradigm.If one can overlook the flaws The Weapon Shops of Isher provides a fairly pleasant and strangely exciting distraction and puts on display Van Vogt's considerable talent at prose.
1980 grade A2015 grade ASeries book WS2The book has odd POV transitions in that it is not always obvious that the POV has changed. Content wise, in the beginning chapters, all the characters seem to be losers. But stick with it. It is a pretty easy but intelligent read and gets immensely better.(Note: My edition is the 1973 fourth printing of the Ace edition pictured above - condition "Very Good." That edition is not listed in the owned books section and I do not feel like dealing with Goodreads problematic edition editor.)
This is '40s vintage pulp science fiction at its best. The plot is something of a mess with threads going off in all directions. But darned if I don't love it as much today as when I was a kid. Could Van Vogt have done better? Probably. But think of the times and what was expected of him. Besides, if it wasn't for the writers of the Golden Age, I would neither read nor write SF today. So, three cheers for A. E. Van Vogt and this wonderful little gem of writing.
Big ideas and big philosophies: THE WEAPON SHOPS OF ISHER provides a rich, if dated, reading experience from the heart of the Golden Age of Science Fiction.
Between McAllister's unique situation and the war brewing war between the Queen of Isher and the Weapon Shops, very little time is devoted to the character himself.
Furthermore, it wrecks the pacing of the already complicated stories of Fara and Cayle.Despite its flaws and questionable philosophies, THE WEAPON SHOPS OF ISHER is a solid book, and definitely one of the most approachable of high-concept classic science fiction.
From there, the rest of the novel is concerned with events in that far-distant date, and our reporter doesn't even come up again for half the book.
Of course, how or why he's immortal is not gone into at all, nor any real background on him.Overall, the central conceit of the book is the necessity of an armed (or at least potentially armed) populace to resist tyrannical governmental power.
A.E. van Vogt's "The Weapon Shops of Isher" is a 1951 book he formed from three of his 1940s era short stories.
With that in mind, van Vogt has done a pretty amazing job here.
If I were to rate the book solely by today's standards, I might say it was OK.
But, because it seems to have weathered the intervening 60 or so years pretty decently, and because it's so memorable, I'm raising my rating to a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.The two novels in A.E. van Vogt's "Isher" series are:1.
The Weapon Shops of Isher2.
The Weapon Makers (Isher)
Don't let the fact that the NRA loves this book deter you from reading it.
It is not so much a pro-gun book as a political commentary on how to keep any form of government from getting too big for its pants.
The guns available in the weapon shops of Isher are controlled - they are for defensive use only.
In other words, not usable by to shoot up a school or a movie theatre.
This book was published in 1951.
It's a combination of three stories about the weapon shops and it is an interesting read.
I almost didn't care who the author was: I read Asimov and Leinster and Brackett and Tubb, and when they were in Ace Doubles, I got two books for the price of one!The first I bought with my own earnings was an Ace Double by A.E. Van Vogt, The Weapon Shops of Isher.
And that's all right, when laws can be used in support of aggression against the individual who is opposed to the majority.Because the right to buy weapons is the right to be free.
One of the Best SF only surpassed by "The World of Null-A” by the same authorY enjoyed every minute of this book. I only regret there are no more AEVanVogt books left for me. He is truly the greatest SF suthor, period.
As a lifelong reader of science fiction I can’t believe that I have never read any A E Van Vogt until now.
In the world ruled by the house of Isher, there is an uneasy balance between the ruling dictatorship and the Weapon Shops, who offer freedom in the shape of firearms.
In a plot linked to the twentieth century journalist, Cayle becomes close to the Empress and central to the shifting balances of power.
The book has great pace and is extremely well written; it is a great example of the best if mid-twentieth century science fiction.
But that an organization should be set up which would have one principal purpose: to insure that no government ever again obtained complete power over its people." So we have the Weapon Shops, in their strange buildings none of the Empress' soldiers or policeman can enter, offering ultra high tech "smart" guns which can ONLY be fired in self-defense....
Will a Weapon Shop-armed society really be a polite (or free) one?
Or do people ultimately get the government they REALLY want?
"Energy" is continually used as handwaving without saying what KIND of energy, only loosely connected to what energy really is.
But long past the Renaissance, no political thinker, and no political system, suggested that there was an inherent right for men to own weapons to use wholly as they chose, including against the government, or some benefit to the polis for them to do so.That is, no earlier political thinker thought in terms of justice or natural law requiring that men be armed against the government.
There is no dilemma about weapons for these thinkers, and they merely complement Peter Thiel’s techno-libertarian paradise.The other body of thinkers, newly rising to prominence, believes that the it is the unbridled autonomy and individualism, that is at the core of that liberty-focused framework, which itself necessarily ultimately brings us to the same place to which left-liberals want us to arrive, of untrammeled vice backed by government force.
So, I read this because I remember enjoying the short story on which it is based (The Weapon Shop). This expanded version adds several additional plot lines that, while interesting and not unenjoyable, ultimately just make it take longer to get to the punchline at the end. Certainly not as egregious in that respect as, say, the Gamearth books, those pissed me off. I'm not sorry I read The Weapon Shops of Isher, I enjoyed it, and it's quite a slim volume. But next time I'll probably just read the short story again.
I finished rereading The Weapon Shops of Isher yesterday. It was written in the 1940s and published as a series of short stories in Astounding Science Fiction magazine edited by John W. Campbell. I've been a A.E. van Vogt fan since I was a teenager and a loyal Astounding then Analog reader even unto today. I'm currently rereading some of the books that I enjoyed when I was younger.Revisiting Isher is fun. I'm thinking of rereading the null-A stories as well and maybe Slan. A lot of the old science fiction is still very entertaining and makes you think.
Wish I had abandoned this one, but I kept waiting for it to turn around. The whole story is predicated on a series of inventions of incredible power that somehow haven't affected any other part of society. Guns with AI so sophisticated that they only fire in self-defense, but somehow there are still office buildings full of clerks? A machine that unerringly identifies morally upstanding people but the world government is run by a hereditary monarchy? It's entirely too ludicrous.
The Weapon Shops of Isher is one of those books that stayed with me long after the reading was done, so much so that I based a company I started and ran for twenty-plus years on the concepts of freedom presented in the book.Says something, doesn't it, when a work of fiction can influence you like that?
Van Vogt is arguably the best author ever.To me, only Jack Vance, robert E Howard, and Michael Moorcock even contend.His books grab you and take you on a roller coaster ride with mind blowing concepts and pro capitalism bias.Sick of SJW? look no further!!Inspiring me to write my own capitalist space[tm] series.
Classic Science Fiction at its best. This sequel to The Weapon Makers was originally published in 1951 and may seem a little dated now, but in this continuation of the classic story of the battle between the immortal Hedrock and Empress Innelda over the Weapons Shops, A.E Van Vogt established his place among the great Science Fiction authors.
This short but challenging novel contains the best solution I am aware of to the problem of human violence -- essentially, bio-feedback guns; ie, sophisticated weapons that respond to intentionality and only works if used defensively ... these are available only to citizens, not to agents of the government, in special shops with doorknobs which can distinguish between the two
I found this to be a refreshing retreat into my past. The plot and the characters of this story were simple compared to what is being written by today's authors, but they have held up well. Overall, this and its sequel are still very enjoyable.
Well worth the read!I have loved this book since I was a kid and I have read it so many times it's always good to read it again. Especially in this time with all the talk about gun control who is right and who is wrong.
I had read this book in my teens, and was always fascinated by its interwoven subplots. So as not to be a spoiler, I'll simply say it's a good, easy, read.
Love the Weapon shops of Isher stories. Good classic sci-fi read.
