https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51624.Anarchism
Another interesting theme is the relationship between revolutionaries and “the masses.” Of course, anarchists do not believe in a vanguard of revolutionaries to lead “the masses.” But while anarchists view the activism of both as necessary to revolution, Guerin notes that there is not a satisfactory theory for their synthesis: “Relations between the masses and the conscious minority constitute a problem to which no full solution has been found....and one on which it seems that the last word has not yet been said” (38).Guerin argues that far from being utopian, anarchism is highly constructive, and reviews a number of considerations that go into visioning anarchist society: organization, trade, self-management, competition, and degree of socialization.
Daniel Guérin's introduction to Anarchism is, by far, the best book to start learning about the complexities of anarchist thought and the realities of anarchist practice during the XXth century.
It is also great for those of us who want to refresh our knowledge of anarchism and to help pinpoint what anarchist author or what type of anarchist thought to read next, to add to our knowledge of anarchism.
As Guérin points out, a lot of anarchists stick to reading —or misreading— the fathers of anarchism —such as Bakunin and Proudhon.
Largely a rehash of just the sorts of polemics that tend to make anarchism, the classical political framework, not your stupid friend's anarchism, annoying.
The best and most practical political idea that has failed utterly anytime anyone has ever tried it, anarchism doesn't really get the respect it should but Guerin's admirable attempt is nice.
he gets bogged down though in attempts to define it and explore its evolution through the multiple polemical miasmas that it went through and the situationally lame gos folks had at it, especially in Spain where it was doomed from the beginning.
Guerin defines anarchism somewhat narrowly along syndicalist lines, and shows a particular dependence on Proudhon and Bakunin. Also, it goes without saying that, published in 1970, some aspects of the book's analysis are dated. Nevertheless, this is a helpful introduction to anarchist economic and political thought. The section on history is particularly useful, disentangling several lines of post-French Revolutionary radical action, particularly the contradictory nature of the early days of the Russian Revolution and in Lenin's early development.
Said time and again: a great ABCs on Anarchism. Always a great reference for jumping-off points of specific theories and historical implementations of the ideology. Some of the most interesting material is arguably the suppression of anarchists during the Bolshevik Revolution, all the while avoiding an overstatement of the actual anarchist involvement in the revolution. The book is a staple for classic post-1945 Anarchism, but also not of total modern/post-classical thought, with its focus on the essentials and its pragmatic clashes within the greater Left throughout history.
Impassioned defense of anarchism, recommended as an introduction on the topic, prior to the reading of the 19th century classics. However, the author is so committed to the cause, so emotionally invested, and much of the descriptions of self-management are so stainlessly positive that the doubt remains on the objectivity of the analyses, and the suspicion persists of a excessively biased collection and interpretations of facts and sources.
Informative but oddly obsessed with Soviet state socialism. Not that that stuff isn't really interesting, but I really wanted to get more thoroughly into an overview of anarchist theory and follow it up with examples of that in practice, and the baffle of Soviet repression became a third issue I hadn't expected. Nonetheless an interesting and informative read, albeit pretty dry.
Perfect introduction to anarchism!
A phenomenal introduction to anarchist thought, clearly and carefully laying out both the theory and the history of anarchism. A book I will definitely be reading again
A group of professional revolutionaries then emerges from the mix, riding popular sentiment into power (Lenin's, for instance, implemented this bait-and-switch, seeming to be a supporter of self-management and the soviet council system's that emerged quite democratically and directly after the revolution).
Guerin poses some questions about how this can be avoided in the future as well as what we can learn by those brief periods of social self-organization that so often existed in the early months of revolution before the state was established.I suggest reading this book, but substituting the first half with another introduction to anarchist theory.
Daniel Guerin attempts to give a brief history of anarchist theory and practice in this particular book.
From Proudhon and Bakunkin to anarchist presence in the Russian and Spanish revolutions, Guerin does a great job of summarizing the general trends in anarchist thought.
Though I would disagree with the generalizations made concerning the differences between Marxist and and libertarian socialism, I think the book does a great job of detailing the differences between the sects without splitting to many hairs.Guerin uses the popular examples of the Russian revolution, Italian, and Spanish revolutions to examine the anarchist presence and role in these revolutions.
A painfully dry theory and history of libertarian socialism, or anarcho-syndicalism.
There are so many things this book did not help me understand, which it did not make up for by what it did help me understand, that anarcho-syndicalism isn't actually about eliminating government, but replacing a large-scale state with a collection of small-scale "worker councils" governed by direct democracy.
Most of the book is spent contrasting anarchism with communism, which is necessary because they are in fact so similar.
The history it provides seemed to demonstrate how impractical anarchism has proven to be, as all attempts at it have degenerated into authoritative, centralized state socialism.
Natural order “Proudhon was the first to proclaim that anarchism is not disorder but order, is the natural order in contrast to the artificial order imposed from above, is true unity as against the false unity brought about by constraint.”The book gives a good glimpse on the theoretical anarchism and its practical application.
Guérin argues about the practical application of anarchism in Russian, Italy, and Spanish revolutions, which became the flagship of late XIX and early XX centuries.
Self management is the central concept that the author stresses.
It made clear the need for a centralised socialist state (though not on the Russian model) rather than convince me otherwise.
For instance, Guerin claims that "human nature" was the cause of ruin of the Spanish communes, claiming that due to lack of organisation the selfish proletariat participating took would they could in a mad grab; whereas the anarchists put forth regulatory safeguards to prevent this from happening.
His terminology here seems to be flipped, because the so called "authoritarian socialists" would be the party instituting these preventive regulations.
All in all, the book was good for understanding anarchist ideology, but didn't put forth a convincing argument.
Seriously, more people ought to read this great introduction to anarchist thought and see that it's not a philosophy or a belief in chaos and destruction.
After reading this book, one might find that it's more about creating a society that is based around voluntary cooperation, as opposed to coercion, a society based on mutual aid and freedom, a society without hierarchical domination--as opposed to the competitive drive for profit fostered by capitalism.
If that's enough reason to read this book, one might do well to notice that Noam Chomsky has written its introduction.
I cannot recommend this book enough for its honest delineation of anarchist thought.
"One of the ablest leaders and writers of the French New Left describes two realms of 'anarchism'-its intellectual substance, and its actual practice through the Bolshevik Revolution, the Spanish Civil War, the Italian Factory Councils, and finally the role in workers' self-management in Yugoslavia and Algeria.
One sees in 'anarchism' a close kinship to libertarianism of the right, with its horror of state beaucracy and hostility toward bourgeois (liberal) democracy.
Noam Chomsky, perhaps Guerin's American political counterpart, has written a concise and effective introduction which will add to the book's campus appeal.
An important contemporary of New Left aims and their possible directions in the future."  - Publishers Weekly

Giving this book three stars isn't an insult to it.
I think it was a good introduction, although a lot of people would disagree.
It starts out by giving an overview of anarchist beliefs and does a good job of explaining them and presenting arguments for and against them.
The second half of the book is mostly history of anarchism in practice.
I found the second half to be much less engaging and I ended up skimming through a lot of it.
It's a great history of anarchism, but I suppose I should have looked into it more before starting it because I was hoping for an actual outline of anarchist ideas - i.e., how things like factory councils and land collectivization would actually work. Guerin assumes knowledge of these things and then looks at specific successes and failures in their implementations throughout the past 100 or so years. So if that's what you're looking for it's an incredible work! I'll probably go and read some Bakunin, Proudhon, and Kropotkin before returning to this one.
A classic of anarchist history from a major figure influencing the May 68 French uprising. Certainly in the core of what we might call an english-language revolutionary cannon. Pretty light, vaguely annoying, somehow desperately lacking in engagement with any of the critical issues I grapple with these days as an anarchist. But I haven't found a better introduction yet, though I'd love any recommendations.
Although substantially different to Malatesta's Anarchy (which is a personal favourite) this is probably the best over-arching introduction to anarchism/libertarian politics I have encountered. And I have probably read quite a few. It essentially reads like a sympathetic Marxian historian covering the history and nuisances within anarchism for the past 150 years up to France 1968.
This is the book I usually recommend for people who're totally new to anarchism. It's reasonably short - but not really short either, and conveys the basic ideas (theory), and most important events (pratice), in a way that's easy to understand, without over-simplifying too much.If you've already read a bit about anarchism though, there'll probably be little - or nothing - new to gain from it.
I ripped through this in under a week, I am definitely reading this again. Along with books like Chomsky and Herman's, Manufacturing Consent and Graeber's, The Democracy Project, this is one of those books anyone who is interested in how a rational society could be organised must read.
Though not much new ground is broken here, Guerin presents a concise and useful history of anarchist thought, both in its theoretical development and how it has been put into practice in real life (particularly Spain in the 1930s).
A lot was left out of this book; I found it less comprehensive than it claims to be, but still a quick, simple and fair introduction to anarchism.
Great starter's book. Together with About Anarchism by Nicholas Walter this book will get you ready for anarchist discussion.
7.5/10
Thematisch overzicht van het anarchisme, bij wijze van inleiding; met verwijzing naar de historische praktijk. Vooral aanprijzing Bakoenin. Toch boeiend uiteraard
I like it so far... very informative about the history of the philosophy of anarchism. A very easy read so far.
Good book. Good overview by Chomsky.
