https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18869970-my-cousin-rachel
I liked MY COUSIN RACHEL even better than REBECCA!This dark old-fashioned style mystery gives the reader plenty of clues to contemplate, some suspicious evil characters to dissect and others who's naïvety and impulsive acts will make you want to scream with frustration.....or it did me.As for the ending....I loved it, but you'll have to decide for yourself if Rachel is innocent or guilty of a crime(s)......but IMHO (view spoiler)[ she is absolutely, positively 100% guilty, guilty, guilty!!!
(hide spoiler)]What a great classic tale!
The written word was more mysterious and had a stronger undercurrent of evil.....Still a good flick though.
"My Cousin Rachel", is Daphne du Maurier's 3rd highest rated book.
Dear Ambrose,  I'm sorry your life was cut short.
I'm sorry you suffered just before you died - sounded like you were in excruciating pain physically- and mentally.
What I'm most sorry about though - disappointed - is the way in which you raised Philip.
It looked like you were acting out impulsively to me -- in ways that perhaps Rachel might do.....but I don't think so, Philip.
You were so in chanted by Rachel at that moment, Philip, your dog who had been with you your entire life took a second seat.
Enter Philip’s cousin Rachel, widow of cousin Ambrose Ashley who had raised Philip as a son.
Unlike Philip, the charming Rachel knows exactly how to handle or manipulate people.
The story itself, which I won’t recount, builds and builds in tension from the moment of Ambrose’s departure for Italy, and subsequently with Philip learning about the existence of his cousin Rachel and then her eventual arrival at his home.
Once arrived, the tension eases as Philip sets aside preconceived ideas and he and Rachel get to know each other better.
It reminded me so much of Rebecca, both have that gothic atmosphere, the bit of romance, the slow moving story that builds such tension, and the dimwitted main character.
Though not too shabby here with 'They used to hang men at Four Tunings in the old days'.My Cousin Rachel tells the story of obsession.
Ambrose was recently married to his cousin Rachel and became quite ill and died.
Just read this one and decide for yourself about cousin Rachel.
Jonathan Pryce, the actor, adds so much to this story, building the tension even more as he reads this tale.
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Du Maurier wields her audience like puppets, deftly stringing readers from truths to untruths in ways both delightful and maddening.
The plot moved through its gears with precision, and even when I knew or sensed what was coming, it was a sublime pleasure to see DuMaurier spin it out, taking her time, building suspense so perfectly.
Still, this is a book that will reside with me for some time and one that I'll no doubt return to, if only to see and admire how DuMaurier handles a certain aspect of plotting or character, how she masterfully drops her clues into the narrative stream, how she keeps the pages turning, knowing exactly when to slow down and admire a landscape, and when to speed us through.
In a shockingly brief period of time, Ambrose goes from wedded bliss to death, leaving Phillip furious with Rachel, suspecting her of contributing to his cousin’s demise in some way, shape, or form.
This book has so many layers, yet it progresses slowly, adding sinister nuances, bit by bit, until I found myself helplessly trapped in the author’s, oh so clever web before I knew what had happened, maybe a bit like Phillip, eh?This book combines Gothic mystery, strong feminist undertones, psychological mind games, vanity, guilt, and suspicion, which nearly made me delirious with delight.
Written back in 1952, the book was a little ahead of its time, although some may have only taken it at face value.
We have many possible scenarios in our minds, but nothing substantial.On Philip's arrival in Florence the tension is cranked up another notch when he discovers that Ambrose has died there in suspicious circumstances, and that Rachel has left.
The reader knows this to be possible, as Philip's godfather, Nick Kendall, has explained that Ambrose's father had himself died of a brain tumour, having suffered terrible headaches beforehand.
Nevertheless, Philip feels intense dislike and mistrust for Rainaldi and hatred of the unknown Rachel  "the shadowy hated figure of that woman I had never seen… she had become a monster, larger than life itself."  Philip returns to Cornwall, to try to cope with the devastation of Ambrose's death.
“She has done for me at last, Rachel my torment” This line should be as well known as  “Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again.”    & this novel is every bit as good as Rebecca. As a reader you twist and turn unable to decide. (view spoiler)[was Rachel innocent or guilty (hide spoiler)]Today I'm thinking (view spoiler)[ Rachel was a heartless gold digger who poisoned the two men (hide spoiler)] Tomorrow I may think differently, but I know I will still find this book an amazing work o
“She has done for me at last, Rachel my torment”
“Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again.”
& this novel is every bit as good as Rebecca.
As a reader you twist and turn unable to decide.
(view spoiler)[was Rachel innocent or guilty (hide spoiler)]Today I'm thinking (view spoiler)[ Rachel was a heartless gold digger who poisoned the two men (hide spoiler)] Tomorrow I may think differently, but I know I will still find this book an amazing work of fiction - the best I have (re)read in quite some time.Can't wait for the release of the 2017 movie.
Why This Book  After reading Rebecca several years ago, I placed My Cousin Rachel, another of Daphne du Maurier's famed novels, on my To Be Read (TBR) shelf. Earlier this year, a Goodreads buddy, Michael, and I were chatting about various books when we decided to do a buddy read together, selecting this wonderful Gothic edition. We were both interested to see if it lived up to the hype and how it compared to the author's other words. We agreed on early March and got to it this week. I've only
After reading Rebecca several years ago, I placed My Cousin Rachel, another of Daphne du Maurier's famed novels, on my To Be Read (TBR) shelf.
The novel is written in first person point of view and told from the perspective of Philip Ashley, a 24-year-old English man set in a somewhat unknown time, but likely the early/mid twentieth century given some of the details in the background setting.
I went back and forth multiple times deciding whether I liked Rachel and Philip as characters and as human beings.
My Cousin Rachel★★★ 3  StarsIf you haven't read this novel yet here's a short synopsis from the book blurb:  Orphaned at an early age, Philip Ashley is raised by his benevolent older cousin, Ambrose. Resolutely single, Ambrose delights in Philip as his heir, a man who will love his grand home as much as he does himself. But the cozy world the two construct is shattered when Ambrose sets off on a trip to Florence. There he falls in love and marries - and there he dies suddenly.Jealous of his marr
There he falls in love and marries - and there he dies suddenly.Jealous of his marriage, racked by suspicion at the hints in Ambrose's letters, and grief-stricken by his death, Philip prepares to meet his cousin's widow with hatred in his heart.Despite himself, Philip is drawn to this beautiful, sophisticated, mysterious Rachel like a moth to the flame.
Both novels use a first person point of view and share an evocative atmosphere as well as a profound sense of foreboding that permeates throughout the narration.Du Maurier was brilliant at building a feeling of apprehension that gradually envelopes the reader and, by the time you realize it, you are so wrapped in the story that the only way to get out of that "trap" is seeing the book to the end.
All is pretty swell in Philip's world until his cousin takes a vacation in Italy and encounters the widow-Rachel.
Philip journeys to Italy to discover his cousin dead and the young widow to have fled.
I swore that, whatever it had cost Ambrose in pain and suffering before he died, I would return it, in full measure, upon the woman who had caused it....Someday, somehow, I would repay my cousin Rachel.
Soon a letter arrives announcing Rachel's arrival in England and Philip Ashley sets out to discover the truth, but he might just not be able to handle his Cousin Rachel.
Rachel, mi tormento...Si me pidiesen que hablase sobre la ambigüedad, este libro sería un pilar fundamental. La compleja relación entre Philip y Rachel, el ritmo, la atmósfera asfixiante y la tisana; hacen de este libro algo fascinante y perturbador.  (view spoiler)[¿Lo hizo? Supongo que nunca lo sabré, aunque no soy amiga de las casualidades. Y si Philip se hubiese guiado por sus instintos, quizás tampoco lo sería. ¿Rachel mató a sus ex maridos? ¿Su adicción al dinero y el despilfarro la hicier
Rachel, mi tormento...Si me pidiesen que hablase sobre la ambigüedad, este libro sería un pilar fundamental.
La compleja relación entre Philip y Rachel, el ritmo, la atmósfera asfixiante y la tisana; hacen de este libro algo fascinante y perturbador.
(view spoiler)[¿Lo hizo?
Supongo que nunca lo sabré, aunque no soy amiga de las casualidades.
Y si Philip se hubiese guiado por sus instintos, quizás tampoco lo sería.
¿Rachel mató a sus ex maridos?
Si es así, muero de la pena por ella.
¿Y si su belleza y sus maneras enamoraban a cualquiera?
De ambas formas, amo a Rachel.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I bought "My Cousin Rachel" at the same used book sale, and just now got around to it.
My word, I think it's even better.
The story builds slowly, with suspicions gathering in the mind of the reader, until (in my case, at least) you are screaming at Phillip on every page, "DON'T BE SO STUPID, OPEN YOUR EYES FOR PETE'S SAKE." Well, but the ending!
Was I, the reader, wrong?
Was Phillip wrong?
Who was Rachel, really, and what was she thinking?
These questions will haunt me for a while.As I said, this woman knew how to tell a story.
I read Daphne Du Maurier's book "Rebecca" and fell in love with it.
I read online that "My Cousin Rachel" had a similar feel as "Rebecca".
It has the same dark, mysterious atmosphere to it, the same kind of wonderfully developed characters and a great storyline that captivated me from beginning to end.
The reader is desperately trying to discover the truth about Rachel until the end when a shocking event occurs.
I did enjoy My Cousin Rachel, however, Rebecca is still my favorite of the two.
Each character was well drawn: background, personality, way of life (vivid description of Cornwell), and mystery.
Written over 75 years ago, this story has such a timeless feel to it.
The way du Maurier slowly builds the suspense and mystery was masterful, layer upon layer right up until those final shocking chapters.
The characters of the mysterious Rachel and the spoiled and pompous Philip are so cleverly written that you start to question your opinion of them as the story ends.
I listened to the audio version of this story and I thought Jonathan Pryce was an excellent narrator.
This was my longest audio to date but this story was so captivating I really didn't feel the 11 plus hours of listening time.
Phillip Ashley was orphaned at a young age and raised in 19C Cornwall by his older cousin Ambrose.
Health issues force Ambrose to spend time in warmer climates and he meets and marries a distant cousin Rachel, the widowed Countess Sangaletti.
Rachel weaves herself into the lives of Phillip making herself indispensable to the household until Phillip finally finds himself in love with her and forgets his prior suspicions.
Phillip realizes his majority at his 25th birthday and he presents Rachel with what Ambrose would have willed to her if he had lived long enough to sign a new will.
To think that just a few short months ago, I was under the impression that Daphne du Maurier only wrote one novel worth reading, the splendid Rebecca.
A psychological thriller, the novel is set in 19th Century Cornwall and in Florence.
The narrator, Philip Ashley, falls in love with – or rather, becomes obsessed with - his cousin’s widow, Rachel, who may or may not be a murderess.
The development and consequences of Philip’s obsession are at the heart of the novel.
While Rachel’s character and actions are open to question and interpretation, so is Philip’s reliability as a narrator.
Contemporary thriller writers could learn a thing or two from Daphne du Maurier.
3.5 Stars Having loved Rebecca I wanted to read another novel by Daphne Du Maurier and My Cousin Rachel was next on my list and delighted to say that it doesn't disappoint and has a certain , je ne sais quoi about it that had me intrigued.Written in 1951 this novel is a mystey-romance style novel that is as compelling today as it was back 65 years ago.Anbrose and Philip run a country estate on the Cornish coast and live a harmonious bachelor lifestyle in an all male household.
I loved the fact that du Maurier allows the reader to interact in the story to as you have to read this one carefully and on completing a lot is left up to the readers interpretation.An enjoyable read and I am looking forward to my next novel by Daphne du Maurier.
My first reading of this book and unfortunately I did not like it as much as I like Jamaica Inn and Rebecca.
I found it to be much too long drawn out and I was never able to become attached to either Philip or Rachel.
Consequently I was indifferent to the eventual outcome, not being worried about what happened to either of them.I was intrigued by the ending though.
It is left totally to the reader to decide whether Rachel did it or not, an unusual way of concluding a book!
Obviously the book is well written.
I did enjoy reading it but to me she has written better novels:)
Dame Daphne is the tease of all teases, stringing you along throughout an entire book thinking things are one way, then zapping you at the end with a big twist that places the entire story in a new light.
She does the same thing in Rebecca, which I think is the better of the two books because it has a more sinister edge.
Every little detail I discovered along the way was something I was glad no one had shared with me ahead of time.
If you love old-fashioned storytelling and you're a reasonably patient reader, you'll enjoy My Cousin Rachel for all the lovely little details and skillful mind manipulation.
My Cousin Rachel is the third novel written by Daphne du Maurier which I chose to read following my experiences of reading Jamaica Inn and Rebecca about three years ago.
One thing I truly appreciate about this author is her outstanding ability to combine romance with mystery in a beautifully written literary work.
In My Cousin Rachel the mystery derives from the complicated eponymous female character Du Maurier masterfully crafted.
This classic book is a marvelous read because it leaves you with many unanswered questions, even though the ending might appear more conclusive than the great open ending of Rebecca.
Wow!!!My Review: (May 30, 2017)This is now my favorite Daphne book so far.
He is orphaned at age 7 and raised by his uncle Ambrose on the Coast of Cornwall.
Philip gets other correspondence that causes him to believe that Rachel is actually plotting against Ambrose.
Philip believes Rachel has murdered him.
Rachel goes to visit her dead husband's estate and Philip.
I did go into it knowing the ending because I had seen an old black and white 1952 movie version of the book by Henry Koster.
I listened to the audio book and the actor who narrated it was superb.
The novel is ripe for filmic interpretation—and not only because Du Maurier writes cinematically, with rich descriptions of lights, shadows and close-ups.
I haven’t seen any of the movies based on the book, yet I can imagine the film versions too are ripe for (re)interpretation.The story holds much ambiguity, even as to the time period, though judging by external clues, it’s certainly the 19th century; but when exactly is unknown.
This ambiguity likely reflects anxieties about women in the time period Du Maurier was writing in (it was first published in 1951).
It’s a breezy read with a serious subtext.
I finally finished! Life just kept getting in the way of my precious reading time. This book is sheer perfection from the gorgeous writing to the slow, almost unbearable building of tension. I`m left with questions and unusually for me, as someone who likes all the ends tied up, I really don`t mind! I loved it.
I finally finished! Life just kept getting in the way of my precious reading time. This book is sheer perfection from the gorgeous writing to the slow, almost unbearable building of tension. I`m left with questions and unusually for me, as someone who likes all the ends tied up, I really don`t mind! I loved it.
My Cousin Rachel is a mystery/psychological thriller novel written in 1951 by Daphne du Maurier.
Although this book has been recently adapted to film (for the second time), I had to remind myself that it was written close to 70 years ago, in which a story about a woman such as Rachel was likely a risk.
Her character's confidence allowed her the use of perceived witchcraft and her sexuality (gasp) in a time when this was not acceptable...and when I speak of Rachel, I'm actually speaking of Daphne du Maurier who wrote Rachel (the feminist, innocent or murderous as she may be) into existence.
Granted, his isolated upbringing contributed to this, but still it was a little tiring after 350 pages.Rachel, the novel's namesake and the center of attention for young Philip, has her share of faults as well which helped drive Philip to distraction.
Du Maurier developed her characters perfectly to fit this mysterious story of misguided love, misunderstood intentions, and kept the reader in doubt, if not suspense, until the end.
And speaking of the end, I'm still not sure about what happened and what it meant.Even though I gave Rachel and Rebecca both 4 stars, I think I liked Rebecca a little more.
Young Philip Ashley has been raised by his cousin Ambrose since infancy.
As he grows older, Ambrose is warned by his doctor to seek a warmer clime for the winter months for health reasons.
One year he chooses to go to Florence, Italy, where he happens to meet a beautiful young widow named Rachel, who it seems is a distant cousin.
Before his death, Ambrose sent some cryptic letters to Philip that seem to suggest Rachel may have been poisoning him.
Philip at first is prepared to hate her and seek revenge.
Classics Cleanup Challenge #12Audio #160Ooooo she a schemer! And he stupid. Seriously Phillip is a true gentleman who really couldn't help falling for his cousin Rachel who was married Ambrose, from whom Phillip inherited when Ambrose died (fishy). But Rachel ooooo she's a bit too perfect if you ask me. And that friend of hers from Italy. He just needs to be kicked back to his country. He gives her bad ideas. They feed off of each other. This is another awesome de Maurier read. Much better than Jamaica Inn but maybe not as good as Rebecca.
A really brilliant book - I loved the atmosphere and the physiological complexities of the characters, and it was intensely gripping throughout.
