https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53764.The_Great_Dune_Trilogy
In Children of Dune we see the surface of Arrakis beginning to change as the plans to transform the ecology of the plant are being put into effect, and some of the social implications of those changes beginning to emerge, but the book is not as packed with ideas as Dune.
The subsequent books are really just the working through of the ideas set out there.
A lot of people only read the first book, including people who seldom read sci-fi and people who only read just this one sci-fi book. The other two books are definitely worthwhile, especially the third volume (I have not read anything subsequent to the third book). If you are interested these are my reviews:1. Dune2. Dune Messiah3. Children of Dune
OK - let's cut through the BS.This is - quite simply - the most magnificent Sci-Fi epic ever written. The scope of Asimov's Foundation, the attention to detail and context of Tolkien's LotR, coupled with an unmatched visionary socio-ecological messianic narrative that is scarily relevant today.Anyone who likes Sci-Fi and who hasn't read this needs to get a copy. And read it. Now.
The 'Lord Of The Rings' of science fiction, I started reading my aunt's battered old copies while stuck in America in the spring and found it absolutely wonderful. Intensely gripping, I enjoyed it so much I went out and bought my own copy of the trilogy. Incredibly dense and rich with detail, these books are totally unputdownable, and the intrigue will keep you turning pages for hours. Loved them so much I named one of my cuddly toys Gurney Halleck :)
I don't know why I was so determined to finish this trilogy - but I just had to know how it was going to end.
If the trilogy was like the last 50 pages of the last book, fast-paced, full of action and startling twists and turns, I would have loved it.
Sadly, most of the 3 books are focused on political debate, prophecies of the future, and spice-beer, spice-coffee, spice-clothes, spice everything.The books felt a lot like Game of Thrones to me, but more inter-galactic and scheming rather than throwing down the sword.

The mythos the late Mr Herbert Has bequeathed to us either enraptures or bores the reader. I am of the former, this is mature, intellectual, dramatic science fiction that still resonates as a warning about power and its dangers. I seem to read rhis every few years and never tire, nor fail to gain a new insight. Simply put, glorious.
I think what Herbert does well, is although the world and the people are alien, the reader can relate to them.
I find too many sci-fi authors are so interested in creating exotic worlds and peoples that they forgo characters readers can relate to and as result, the stories miss that emotional hook.
Although I enjoy Dune Messiah, I can't help but shake the feeling that it is there to link Dune and Children of Dune together.
I know it was written before Children but that is the feeling I get.
This remains, for the time being, my favourite series.
The story is intricate and well developed and perfectly balanced so that you do not lose sight of the other points of view in the book while focusing on a specific character's story.
I found this book to be the well of clear water that I needed so badly in a rather dry existence.
I remember having read the trilogy as well as the other books in under 2 weeks time, therefore this represents a personal epiphany and these books shall forever be the dearest and most valued memories of all that I have read.
The latter novels did not have the clarity of vision and meaning that the first does
First book (loosely based on story of Mohammed) is second best SF ever written. Books two and three, inevitably, fall off.
A must read, not only by scifi fans, but also for its literature, its philosophy, ... - it's an ageless book for everyone.
Легенда! Затянуло с первой страницы, и до последней. Слушал аудиокнигу в машине, радовался пробкам, что можно подольше послушать:)
Ci mostra la fantascienza fantasy che è poi entrata di forza nell'immaginario collettivo con Star Wars.Un impero galattico di stampo feudale, un pianeta rigidissimo popolato dai Fremen (che decenni dopo ispireranno non poco Robert Jordan), una setta di donne dotate di poteri (ancora, Robert Jordan ma anche Goodkind, per esempio).
Paul, Ghanima e Alia sono tutti nati già consapevoli, con una moltitudine di identità pregresse dentro di loro.Scopriamo che Alia è diventata un'Abominazione, soggiogata dalla coscienza del vecchio barone Harkonnen (quello che essendo cattivo era il Male impersonificato).
I was not interested as much in the plot, which can dawdle on forever like so many once-great sci-fi series, but rather in how Frank Herbert continued exploring the big ideas of Dune: the Middle East/Dune parallels, Church-State, climate change, the competing myth creations of Paul vs the BG...Book II (Dune Messiah) is the fall of Paul and Book III (Children of Dune) focuses on the Atreides who were born on Dune (Paul's sister Alia, and Paul's twins).
The theme of 'The One' that is so overly used in fantasy is applied to Herbert's highly original sci-fi setting. A few of the environmental themes still have resonance in today's world, together with the struggle over resources. I noted some parallels between the fate of Duke Leto and that of George RR Martin's Ned Stark. Some plot developments were a tad convenient whilst others were interesting.
This is definitely one of those sets-of-books that they should remake the films for! Frank Herbert injects so much detail into a complex emotional story line you can't help but be sucked in by it all. The ending is sort of sad, but then I haven't read the additional #4 or above yet! I'm a purist...
Dune is a planet of limits and possibilities. It is a place waiting for the people bred for its promise.But it goes wrong. Or right. It depends on your perspective. Perspective, like the sands of Dune change with the wind.Dune is a treatise on power, ecology and hubris. It is one of the books any science fiction fan should read at least once.
A brilliant examination of human politicks and potential. Also an exploration of the dichotomy of destiny and free will as Paul struggles to stem the inevitable tide of events that will rip human society apart. One of the best books ever written.
These were really fun. As soon as I finished one I grabbed the next. I was sorry to see them end. Unlike most incredibly detailed books it didn't take me long to "get into" the story.
Amazing exploration of society and the norms that have been established. Heavy read in the lane of Asimov foundation or Butler in the wildseed series.I'd say one of the greatest books ever written.
The fabric he's woven with these books is just incredible.It is a mainly character-driven plot, with the three books in this trilogy focusing on the Atreides family on Dune.
That being said, I sometimes had a hard time to follow Herbert's writing and dialogues.
Dune Messiah just focused so much more on Paul's struggles in his new found role, I felt much closer to him, and the whole book just had a poetic justice undertone that I really liked.Even though there were some low points, I can't help giving this trilogy a 5* rating!
A brutal plot is afoot to take absolute control of 'The Spice' and The Atreides family line is destroyed, only Paul and his mother survive and go into hiding and become allied with the planets local natives.
They will rise again, a most powerful army that sets the universe on its edge.It's a long trilogy and sometimes hard to follow, but certainly worth your time.I listened to the audiobook version of this (over 22 hours) and was a little disappointed with this, as the characters voices and narration changed constantly.
They should have stuck to either the single narrator, or the different character voices playing their parts throughout...
There's enough been said in other reviews about the content, so I'll say little here other than Dune is great, the others are more demanding (although, admittedly, not as demanding as the so-called "Second Trilogy", published a decade or so later than these novels.)However, it is the basic text - there's no added introduction or gilt edges (as in the 1987 Easton Press edition of Dune), there's none of the lovely John Schoenherr artwork (recommended by Frank Herbert himself) that was added to the 1999 edition of the Dune Gollancz hardback.
The thing about Dune is that the story revolves around a desert planet that's filled with big deserts with big and nasty worms, so it's naturally to this day still badly accepted by the society that prefers Star Wars and Star Trek kind of movies.
But that doesn't mean it's bad, in fact, in my humble opinion, Dune Trilogy is one of the best science fiction Trilogies ever written besides Alien and Isaac Asimov's Foundation.
Luckily for you, there is more of the Dune world on the bookshelves inside of a book store, but I suggest you read this Trilogy first, because it's amazing, characters inside it are amazing, and the storyline isn't just truly great but also truly spectacular.
So so so often (99%) any on screen adaptation grievously disappoints the book!
Now I was introduced to Dune first by way of the Miniseries in the early 2000's and I loved it and proceeded to watch Children of Dune (miniseries) and the 1984 movie!
After digesting all of these I finally brought the books, and well- the screen adaptations are pale in comparison to the sheer vastness of the detail and soul that Mr Herbert instills into these Epics!
Yes I call them Epics, with few equals!
His imagination creates these intricate alien landscapes and cultures that despite their alienness are relatable and a plot that draws you in!
The book is ultimately unsatisfying to me as it sets up a lot of future without a happily ever after for the characters I cared about. I enjoyed it, though, and it has a lot of drama and tension, as well as neat twists and surprises.
It's been eons since I read "The Great Dune Trilogy", but I remember is as the most enthralling science fiction series I have ever read. No other series (or, indeed, science fiction in general) has ever captivated me like "Dune" did.
I've given the books in this collected volume separate ratings, from when I first read them separately.Dune: 5Dune Messiah: 4Children of Dune: 3I should revisit this series at some point to see if I want to change those ratings at all.
It was fine, I guess.
