https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34663135-a-river-in-darkness
Serfdom is freedom. Repression is liberation. A police state is a democratic republic. And we were “the masters of our own destiny.” And if we begged to differ, we were dead. This is one powerful little memoir. It's a true story that sounds like dystopian fiction - for most of us, it is difficult to imagine families being lured to a new "paradise", only to be met with famine, concentration camps and violence. It's hard to accept that this is still part of our world.I, like many, am fascinated a
I have also read Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives in North Korea, which documents a variety of different experiences from defectors.A River in Darkness complements both those books and adds something very unique - a detailed first person account of what it was and is really like to live in this secretive nation.Ishikawa was born in Japan but his Korean father was seduced by promises of "paradise" and having "everything you need" in North Korea.
Ishikawa lost loved ones, his freedom, and most of his life to North Korea.It is a deeply sad memoir and even the ending brings little relief.
The short version: This is easily the best firsthand narrative about life in North Korea that I've found, and it's a gripping, well-written story in its own right.
That's interesting in that the stories come from a variety of people who came from different backgrounds in North Korea, but this book is a much more in-depth picture of a single life, and has better narrative flow.
If more people knew what life there is like, it would undoubtedly help -- it's pretty hard not to care in the face of this insanity.
Masaji Ishikawa's harrowing memoir, A River in Darkness: One Man's Escape from North Korea, is astounding!
I recently read Suki Kim's Without You: There is No Us: Undercover Among the Sons of North Korea's Elite.
I really liked Suki Kim's work and thought there were great insights on the mindset of North Koreans.
A River of Darkness has remarkable insights on North Korea as well, but it is completely different.
Ishikawa focuses on the mindset of average North Koreans along with the extreme privation of most of the population.
He also focuses on a group of people who immigrated from Japan known as returnees.
The author is speaking from his heart of what he has experienced—first ostracism in Japan due to his dual Japanese and Korean background, then the horror of the thirty-six years of his life spent in North Korea from 1960-1996 under the rule of Kim Il Sung and then Kim Jong Il, why he had to flee, how he did it and finally what happened when he returned to Japan.
Successfully escaping from North Korea in 1996, perhaps this looks like a story with a happy ending.
A devastating account of one man's life in North Korea. This also has the added element of examining North Korean life from the perspective of someone who is half-Japanese, half-Korean. A good companion piece of  Pachinko and  In Order to Live.
Masaji Ishikawa and his family moved to North Korea during the great migration of Japanese/Korean immigrants to the communist state in the 1960s.
This is by far one of the best first hand accounts I've read of life in North Korea, and in some respects it completely overwhelmed me.
It follows Masaji from that fateful journey across the sea to North Korea, to his life as a tractor driver and endless search for a happy life with his growing family, to the famine of the late 1980s and early 90s which ultimately leads to his desperate escape.
The desperation of a whole nation is described so eloquently here, it's hard to read at times.
But as I read I became more invested in the journey, more invested in the political aspect, the trying nature of the events that unfolded.I was left elated and heartbroken as I reached the end of one man’s journey to just return home to a life that was striped from him because he was a child.
Yes, after reading this memoir I found myself wanting to know what was happening.
I don’t think I could have been as strong as Masaji Ishikawa or his sister or even his children who grew only to know one world.
"Her desperation, her fear, her exhaustion-all of it seeped through her thin clothes and straight into my heart."This is not the first non fiction book that I have read, regarding real people's lives in North Korea.
Much of the information in this particular account wasn't new to me, but this did not stop the utter disbelief washing over me, as I was reading.This very personal memoir is just gut-wrenchingly tragic, and it is told with such honestly, that the horrors Masaji Ishikawa endured over all of those years, is all the more vivid and harrowing for the reader to digest.
This memoir gives a powerful insight to what life was actually like in North Korea.
A breathtaking real, unfiltered view of life in North Korea as a Japanese-Korean. Not all tales end happily, but Masaji Ishikawa's story exemplifies the resilience of the human spirit and importance of optimism even in the darkest of times.
The horror of life in North KoreaBeyond comprehension. The atrocities are being silenced but must be made known. No one should endure what these people do.
As a half South Korean woman, I also typically avoid reading anything regarding North Korea.
However, when Ashley at Amazon Publishing gave me this book, I couldn't NOT read it..
Turns out, it may as well be a horror book...
That's thirty-six (36) years of him living in North Korea with his family.
Decades of trying not to starve to death.
Decades of trying not to get shot, beaten up or turned away simply for being 1/2 Japanese - something that is (obviously) out of his control.
for all the Koreans and Japanese living there in squalor as death surrounds them at every turn.
This isn't the first non-fiction book I've read about real people's lives in North Korea (the first was Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives in North Korea), so some of the information wasn't new to me this time around.
I can't imagine how so many people can endure so much needless suffering.
I highly recommend reading either book - I think there's not enough people who realize how bad it really is in North Korea and why other countries turning a blind eye to it as long as they don't threaten their own welfare is a humanitarian atrocity we are now all complicit with.
look somewhere else.A River in Darkness: One Man's Escape from North Korea was such an amazing book.
Since I already mentioned one spoiler about this entire book I'm going to try really hard not to spoil anything else.
Masaji, the MC, takes you on this heart wrenching journey of him battling through North Korea.
This resulted in him getting beaten up, shot, or turned away from everyone on a daily basis.I probably cried the whole book - or shed tears throughout some chapters.
I felt for Masaji and his family so much.I wish this book had a happy ending.
Masaji Ishikawa tells his life from his childhood in Japan, up through his escape from North Korea.
His father, Do Sam-dal, was Korean and his mother, Miyoko Ishikawa, Japanese.
When Masaji was thirteen, his father insisted they move to North Korea under the regime of Kim Il-Sung.
His childhood was difficult but it did not hold a handle to the struggles of living in North Korea for thirty-six years and every time I saw the phrase, “Luckily I...” I couldn’t believe how optimistic he was—the human spirit is an amazing thing.
This is a short book, but what a harrowing, thought-provoking story it tells!
It is not an easy read, this man's account of life in North Korea, his escape back to Japan and the terrible losses he and his family suffered in the process.
I kept feeling stunned when the author mentioned the dates - so recent!
- and that people dying of starvation seems a fairly common occurrence in North Korea.
he paints a bleak picture, made bearable by the fact that he felt close bonds with his family.
An eye-opening and important book!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
Memoir of Masaji Ishikawa wherein he relates the details of his life from being born in Japan in 1947 to moving with his family to North Korea, where they were promised “paradise on earth,” to his escape to Japan in 1996.
Unsurprisingly, the so-called paradise never materialized, and his family’s standard of living gradually diminished until it reached starvation-level.Ishikawa tells his story in a very straight-forward conversational manner.
This memoir delivered educational information about life in North Korea under Kim Il-sung.
Recommended to those interested in Korean history, especially first-hand accounts of life in North Korea.
The barely living dead.”
4.5⭐An emotional memoir. Ishikawa’s account of life in North Korea reads like a chilling dystopian novel.
4.5⭐️An emotional memoir. Ishikawa’s account of life in North Korea reads like a chilling dystopian novel.
So I was interested to see if Ishikawa's memoir would be at all similar or shed new light on the country and life there.At least some of the accounts of life in North Korea that I've read previously have if not happy endings, at least slightly positive and hopeful conclusions.
I think this book is 100% worth reading for his honesty and the fact that it sheds new light on the plight of North Korean refugees and life after escaping the country.Ishikawa's memoir covers his entire life - from his early childhood in Japan, right up until the present day.
That one word sums up this entire memoir.I've read both Fiction and Non-Fiction books about North Korea which has provided me a pretty good background about what life is like there.
The author was born in Japan and moved to North Korea in 1960 when he was 13 years old.
The details the author shared about his life in North Korea was heart breaking.
I've read about the famine of the mid 90s, however the author shared details I had not previously heard.This memoir was incredibly interesting and I highly recommend it for anyone wanting a better understanding of what life is like in North Korea.
The author is born in Japan to a Korean father and Japanese mother.
In the early 60s his family happily accept the propaganda that life back in North Korea was a paradise.
On their return reality was a life of poverty, corruption, ostracism, starvation, homelessness, unemployment and despair.
After 38 years, the author escapes to China to find a country that will return escapees.
Luckily some local Japanese government officials help him get back to Japan where he is again an outsider, unable to find work and with no contact with his family back in Korea.Whoever helped him write and translate this book has done a wonderful job.
يتناول الكتاب قصة واقعية لرجل يدعى ماساجي ايشيكاوا، ولد في اليابان لأم يابانية وأب كوري. أنتقل مع أسرته إلى كوريا الشمالية عام ١٩٦٠ وهو فتى وعاش هناك ستاً وثلاثين عاما في ظروف اقتصادية وسياسية صعبة. سنوات المعاناة كانت مليئة بالقهر والجوع والمرض والموت. نجح بعد ذلك في الهروب إلى الصين ومن ثم الوصول إلى مسقط رأسه اليابان. فهل يصل للراحة المنشودة والحياة السعيدة؟
I bought this book on a whim when it was a Kindle deal of the day earlier this year.
And then I promptly put off reading it up until now.
And I'm sorry I put it off for so long because this book was astonishing.
There've been quite a lot of biographies published recently about North Koreans escaping through China.
This one was actually published back in 2000 in Japanese and has only fairly recently been translated to English.
It's a tiny book - less than 200 pages - but it was so very much worth reading.
I saw 'North Korea' on this memoir and had to read it.
I don't think I even fully got through the synopsis and new I was going to read it in one sitting.
There is a huge curiosity when thinking about the average person living in North Korea.
What this man and his family went through was unbelievable.
It's a real life horror story and if it doesnt give you the 'feels,' I dont know what will.
I'm giving this 5 stars because I am absolutely not qualified to review or rate this book.
A true glimpse in horror and true hardship.
Oh god, that was the most depressing book I've read in a long time. There is literally no light at the end of the tunnel for Mr. Ishikawa. On the one hand, it was a fascinating and disturbing tale of life in North Korea. On the other hand...it was a dark and dreary tale of what happens in North Korea.I think I need a break from reading for a bit now.
But it lacks the prose that made me subject myself to Solzhenitsyn's second book.
But as far as this book goes, it seemed to drone on about the lack of food and housing and hopelessness without explaining many of the things that he was able to do.
He marries her because he feels sorry for her but he gets her pregnant and she asks him to divorce her right after she has the baby.
He goes around begging villagers to nurse his baby.
His second wife leaves to take care of her relative but suddenly can return.
When I read Pachinko, the fictionalized account of a family's actual history, it opened my eyes to the lives of Korean nationals who found themselves in Japan and unable to return.
Believing the hype that Kim Jong-sung had created a "paradise on earth" promising jobs and prosperity, his abusive father "relocated" the entire family to North Korea in 1960, even though he had been a native of the South.
As a reader already knows from the title and opening passage, Ishikawa is able to leave the country by swimming a river to China in 1996, but his history and memories are so painful, it makes for grim reading.
A River in Darkness was a powerful first-hand account about life in North Korea.
When Ishikawa was 13 years old his family moved from Japan to North Korea because they felt like second class citizens living in Japan.
Ishikawa narrates his difficult upbringing and the extremely harsh and brutal life under this totalitarian regime for thirty six years.
In this book we see the insights of the average North Korean and extreme conditions they live through.
It is a good book for those who want to know more about what the North Korean people live through with a first-hand account.
There are so many inconsistencies and omissions that you come away feeling like you don't know this person at all, and the only thing you're sure of is that he's holding out on you.
Then the sister supposedly borrows enormous amounts of money, something like more than a year's salary, with no evidence of having spent it on anything, and Ishikawa has to go begging to a rich acquaintance to pay it back.
Usually autobiographies are either selectively condensed or overblown to make a novel-like narrative out of the mundanity of someone's daily life.
I'm glad this book isn't longer, because there's no way I was going to bed until I completed it last night.
This is one of those books that punches you right in the gut.
Having a nebulous idea that "things are tough" in North Korea is one thing, but reading someone's harrowing first-hand account of just HOW horrible it is takes that understanding to a whole new level.
The appalling and dehumanizing conditions under which people have been living in this isolated country will break your heart, and this memoir of one man's 36-year ordeal and eventual escape from that country will make you wonder: how many more people are still suffering there?
I highly recommend this eye-opening book.
His story broke my heart
