https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243400.The_Man_in_the_Queue
The best passage, though, a tour de force of deliberate detail and subtle psychology, is Grant's exploration of how leading lady Ray Marcable--quietly, mercilessly, with consummate artistry--destroys every available opportunity for her unfortunate leading man to shine.The novice writer Tey reveals herself most clearly in the uninspiring nature of her plot: slow at times, frantic at others, with some parts seemingly out of order (the chase is much too early, for example), and a singularly abrupt resolution which appears almost as an afterthought.
There were a few other examples where older expressions were used instead of their more modern replacements and although context helped, at first I felt it got in the way of a jump start into the novel.Having said that, it didn’t take long to begin reading from the perspective of time and place that the novel was written in.
I had never come across that usage of the word as a substitute for intuition, but it made me smile.)As the title suggests, there is a man murdered in the queue for one of the last showings of a popular London play.
Eventually, Inspector Grant was able to target his man and there were several chases and misleading clues and/or near misses in the process of apprehending the murderer.
For some reason the only novels by Josephine Tey that I have read previously are The Daughter of Time and The Franchise Affair, both in my long-distant teenage past.
I loved the former of these books and liked the latter, but until now I had not felt inspired to seek out Tey's other works.I'm glad that I finally did, for there's a lot to love about this example of British Golden Age detective fiction.
That said, one of the surprises in this novel is that Grant does not actually solve the crime.
Overall, this was a worthwhile read for fans of Golden Age British crime fiction.
This is the first Josephine Tey mystery, featuring Inspector Alan Grant.
The novel begins on a March evening in London, where there are long queues outside the many theatres, including the Woffington; currently playing the long running show, “Didn’t You Know?” This is coming to the end of a long run and so the crowds are intense, with a patient crowd inching forward and hoping to get to see the beautiful Ray Marcable.
As the doors open though, a man in the queue is murdered and Inspector Grant is called in to investigate.This is a good example of a Golden Age mystery.
There is something to be said for a poor memory because I really do not remember this book and thoroughly enjoyed it again, as if for the first time.This is labeled as the first Inspector Grant mystery, but it reads like we already have a history with him, as if we are well-acquainted.
The ones who are all-knowing, all-seeing and pull hidden clues out at the last minute just make me feel dull.
In fact in this one, I was wondering why Grant didn’t pay more attention to a clue which seemed important and it even turned out to be.
I look forward to another foray with Inspector Grant soon!
This is the first Josephine Tey mystery, featuring Inspector Alan Grant.
The novel begins on a March evening in London, where there are long queues outside the many theatres, including the Woffington; currently playing the long running show, “Didn’t You Know?” This is coming to the end of a long run and so the crowds are intense, with a patient crowd inching forward and hoping to get to see the beautiful Ray Marcable.
As the doors open though, a man in the queue is murdered and Inspector Grant is called in to investigate.This is a good example of a Golden Age mystery.
This book is the first of the Inspector Grant series and while it doesn't quite have the same engrossing, disorienting quality as The Franchise Affair, it's still a superior example of the classic crime novel.A man is stabbed while waiting in a London theatre queue - and soon Inspector Grant is caught is a fine muddle of the theatre, bookmakers, London landladies, men's outfitters and a trip to the Scottish highlands.It has to be said that the continued use of the term 'Dago' is uncomfortable, and there is an audacious use of coincidences at which Tey herself seems to be poking fun.
(Which is a different way of saying "I haven't read this in a long time".) It's obvious that Josephine Tey didn't originally intend to write mystery novels: not to in any way belittle mystery novels, which I love, but there is an intelligent uniqueness to her story and her writing that is a pure joy, an approach to the task which is fresh and unique.
It isn't so much a Whodunnit, in which the reader can follow along and figure out who the killer is – I'm fairly sure that's impossible, as the story is written.
In later novels, Grant's tendency to draw conclusions about people from their appearances becomes more refined and less authoritative.
Given that his conclusions about the murderer were completely wrong, it's possible Tey meant to show how ridiculous such characterizations are, but I would think that would mean that, at some point before the end, Grant might have thought "geez, that sure was boneheaded of me."The mystery itself.
I think it was obvious that Grant's singleminded pursuit of his suspect meant that he was missing something, but the revelation of the real killer...(view spoiler)[Please.
(hide spoiler)]I'm glad I read Tey's other novels first.
I have never read anything by Tey before and after reading this first novel of hers, consider her a gem of a find.People are crowding each other in a line outside a theater to see a final performance of the wonderful Ray Marcable's "Swan" performance before she sails off to America.
This is neither fair nor believable.I understand that maybe underdogs who have been bullied by police, detectives, lawyers, and powerful rich guys enjoy reading them dance to Wolfe and Archie's tune, but it is also a little one-dimensional.The same is true for Lord Wimsey.
We saw a tenderer, vulnerable side to Wimsey.Tey's Inspector Grant is very smart and so are his fellow detectives but they are not know-alls.
The detective's thoughts at the end say an awful lot about Tey. He thinks about the murder victim, and tries to decide whether (view spoiler)[he was crazy, and decides he wasn't.
Then the detective thinks about the murderer, who was the mother of the woman who was going to be killed.
So, someone who wants to kill a woman because he can't have her is sane.
Someone who wants to kill a man to save her daughter's life is crazy.
I strongly suspect the villain we're meant to think of is the woman the murder victim was going to kill.
A reread after many years. This was Tey’s first mystery and it shows. Not bad, but not as good as later ones.
A detective without the gimmicks, or idiosyncracies of many of his contemporaries, but with a great deal of intelligence and charm, I soon suspected that his creator was a little in love with him … quite understandably …There was little physical evidence, little witness evidence, but a careful, methodical investigation began, and in time the dead man was identified, his life examined, and suspects identified.Often the story was quiet, but it was always engaging.The characters were so well drawn, and they always offered me a question to ponder.There were some great moments and some lovely diversions: a trip to the Highlands of Scotland in pursuit of a fleeing suspect stood out for me.And the writing was wonderful.
Someone who wants to kill a man to save her daughter's life is crazy.
I strongly suspect the villain we're meant to think of is the woman the murder victim was going to kill.
it's obvious from the length of the book that the inspector is after the wrong man.
It's obvious from the way the man and the people around him act, too.
But the pretty sentences didn't save it from how bothered I was with the outdated stuff (reliance on reading people's faces, reliance on "national characters", etc).
but if this book is a testament to Tey, then we are through.The aspect of this book that just baffled me is that it was a given that people in a queue would ignore each other and not be able to even slightly identify those around them after several hours in each others company.
So unless someone can come out and offer me 100% proof that Britain is not at all like America in it's queues then I'm calling Josephine Tey out as saying the crux of her book plays false.
It isn't all so pompous as this, but I certainly enjoyed my introduction to Josephine Tey. Long ago a lordly official had come down the pit queue and, with a gesture of his outstretched arm that seemed to guillotine hope, had said, "All after here standing room only." Having thus, with a mere contraction of his deltoid muscle, separated the sheep from the goats, he retired in Olympian state to the front of the theatre, where beyond the glass doors there was warmth and shelter.Inspector Alan Grant is certainly not pompous.
The man in the queue, the murdered man, left no clue to his identity, yet by Grant directing staff appropriately, his identity was learned and the mystery pursued.This is an excellent example of the Golden Age mysteries.
Dal punto di vista della scrittura, non c’è proprio da lamentarsi.
Tuttavia, come “romanzo giallo” è un po’ carente di ritmo e il finale non mi è piaciuto per nulla.
Nonostante la ressa della coda, mi sembra un po’ improbabile.
Comunque, in generale è più che decoroso.Non conoscevo l’autrice, ma ho scoperto che ha diversi estimatori e che i suoi romanzi successivi (questo è il primo) vengono giudicati di livello nettamente superiore.
Qui soffre un po’, si dice, di inesperienza.
Se mi capita, farò un altro tentativo con lei, perché il tenore generale è stato di mio gradimento, nonostante i difetti.
Free download at Project Gutenberg AustraliaI just realized this is the first book of the Inspector Alan Grant series. As the previous book I've read this week, A Schilling for Candles, the plot is captivating and the investigation work follows the masters of the mystery genre. There is one more book of this series to be read,  To Love and Be Wise.5* The Daughter of Time4* The Franchise Affair3* The Singing Sands4* Brat Farrar4* A Shilling for Candles4* The Man in the QueueTBR To Love and Be WiseTBR Miss Pym Disposes
A man is stabbed while standing in line for a popular musical comedy. He was surrounded by strangers -- is it possible none of them saw what happened, or is one of them lying?
Cosy police procedural, three-and-one-half stars.Playwright Elizabeth Mackintosh's first novel, originally published under the "Gordon Daviot" name in 1929 and later as "Josephine Tey", is a true 1920s' thriller, based on the police procedural format, very similar in style and tone to Philip McDonald's then extremely popular mysteries.
With the likeable Inspector Grant at the helm it works pretty well, due to a strong plot that has mostly been well-worked out (not many loose ends) and quite smoothly, if s mite stodgily, written.
Ms. Tey didn't produce a lot of novels but what she did publish was extremely good stuff.
("Flair" means "sense of smell" like a good hunting dog.) Well Grant has it in spades--the ability to smell out facts as well as the English idea of "flair" meaning style.
First time I've ever heard a murder called "picturesque." You're trying to tell me that in the 20s no London lowlife carried a shiv?
The Girl has "all a red-haired person's shrewdness and capability." Perhaps his mental orthodoxy is what leads to Grant getting hold of the wrong end of so many sticks in this investigation.That said, Tey is a good exponent of the writer's craft.
Well, they say you shouldn't judge a book by its cover... I'd have to add "or by its author's reputation or by its Goodreads score!"An unknown man is stabbed in the queue of a theatre show's last night. Inspector Alan Grant struggles all through the book to find out the who and the why.This is apparently Josephine Tey's first novel, so I might just be able to forgive her for the dreadfully contrived ending and the disappointment I felt. But I certainly cannot recommend it.
If you want the best detective on the planet, you got to go with Allan Grant, the star of Josephine Tey's THE MAN IN THE QUEUE.Just how great is he, you ask.
That or the fact that there'd been anything in the drawer to begin with.There's also an earlier passage where Tey's super detective arrives at the conclusion that the murder victim and another person had "lived together" based upon the fact that their fingerprints appeared on the same envelope.
The Man in the Queue is not only the first Inspector Grant mystery by Tey but her first book, in fact.
In it , Tey breaks one of the cardinal rules of classic crime fiction: “No accident must ever help the detective, nor must he ever have an unaccountable intuition which proves to be right”.
Inspector Grant uses his intuition quite a bit to solve his cases in my experience, in particular in this title.In the line for a popular musical in its last week’s run, a man is mortally stabbed.
What I did like about The Man in the Queue was the undercover aspects of it.
First published in 1929.Josephine Tey's first book.Her flowery sentencesput me in mind of Henry James.There is a cleverness to herwriting style that is all her own.Narrator Jennifer M. Dixondoes a fairly good job.Clean with Mild Foul Language.
The Man in the Queue, the first in the Inspector Grant series, was originally published in 1929. Nearly one hundred years on, Josephine Tey’s novel still feels near and vital, leaving aside of course the amusing societal differences between now and then; bank notes being traceable by their numbers and a wanted man struggling to stay hidden in London for example.  The plot is intricate and Grant ploughs his way systematically through the evidence until he reaches a conclusion, albeit an odd one.
It had a bit of a slow start, and I have to drop a star for the hero - Grant - who is the least interesting character in this oddly elaborate tale.
I suppose I'm mostly concerned that Grant won't be an interesting enough personality to carry the other books once the initial shine has worn off (although I do intend to give them a try).
It's the type of book that made me fall in love with the country as I was growing up, and it pulls up such fond memories from my too-brief periods traveling through Scotland and England.
Tey’s writing shows great promise and even with the technical difficulties mentioned above this is certainly a book that would be enjoyed by most fans of the British murders mysteries written in the 1920s.Spoilers ahead.The last few lines of the book ask the reader to consider the question of who has been the villain.
It is perhaps only in retrospect and after years of public education that readers are likely to realize that the core story of this novel is that of a man who continues to feel ownership of a woman who has long since left him behind.
Though her catalogue is short, this Scotswoman unfortunately dead at only 52, Elizabeth Mackintosh is renowned among the leading authors of mystery.
Three stars are modest, which take several factors into consideration.
It would have to be exceptional to obtain five stars.
I look forward to Elizabeth's other novels.
After the first few chapters, I eagerly jogged along as Alan and his team strove to derive strong clues from next to nothing: a dead man without identification and only a few things in his pockets.
I like that Alan was imperfect and slapped his forehead over things he could have checked.
interesting to watch inspector grant travel all over london and the highlands to put together pieces of evidence that point, with certainty, to a man who, when apprehended, says "I didn't do it." much of the narrative is dedicated to unveiling the identity of "the Levantine," a shadowy figure grant creates based on his belief about who commits crimes and how.
the story really got interesting for me in the last few chapters, when grant is watching the trial and feeling an unexpected hesitation about the man he's run to the ground.
and it's interesting to me that it seems like grant was the villain, actually.
