https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2344476.Twelve_Men
One reviewer said that all the characters in this book are "disciple-like do-gooders".
I can only assume that he did not finish the book.
If its ok here, let me quote the University of Pennsylvania website on this book http://www.upenn.edu/pennpress/book/5..., "The men profiled in Twelve Men are a diverse and colorful group: from Dreiser's equally famous brother, the songwriter Paul Dresser ("My Brother Paul"), to the entirely obscure railroad foreman Michael Burke ("The Mighty Rourke"), on whose work crew Dreiser had labored in 1903.
Loved this book. I am so fascinated by the era in which he lived. It was very interesting to read about this twelve men in his live that he felt worth writing about. Tells you something of the times and the people.
"We toil so much, we dream so richly, we hasten so fast, and lo! the green door is opened. We are through it, and its grassy surface ha sealed us forever from all which apparently we so much crave - even as, breathlessly we are still running." (from W.L.S.)k"Peace, peace. So shall it soon be with all of us. It was a dream. It is. I am. You are. And shall we grieve over or hark back to dreams?" (from My Brother Paul)- Theodore Dreiser, Twelve Menpoignancy and pathos
****.This work consists of twelve character sketches of men Dreiser knew and admired.
I remember the first time I drove into Terre Haute, I came across a “historical” marker that said: “Birthplace of Paul Dresser, composer of ‘On the Banks of the Wabash.” I never found a corresponding marker for Dreiser.
Although Dreiser was the family name, Paul changed his to Dresser; one he felt was more attuned to his calling.
Aside from the Wabash song, Dresser wrote numerous other works, including “My Gal Sal.” He managed to make a living from these efforts, but finally ended up a tragic ending once his inspiration ran out.
"Twelve Men" is 12 unrelated character sketches that are supposed to be Dreiser's ideal man, and ultimately, a portrait of himself. Which is to say generous, pious and totally boring. The men in these stories are all painted to be disciple-like do-gooders. Were all people like this in 1909? There were a few good observations on people. The only interesting sketch was of the character who, seeming human at all, had a temper and was unforgiving.
i expected so much more from Theodore Dreiser. He is one of my favorite writers, so I was much excited about this book as well. It turned out to be a long and pretty boring read for me. The characters are all flat and very much alike. Maybe they each played a big role in writer's life, but reading about them was not fascinating. They all seemed so similarly good that it seems unrealistic. Oh, and also just after finishing reading I cannot remember any one separately and clearly...
