https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27071490-homegoing
“What I know now, my son: Evil begets evil. It grows. It transmutes, so that sometimes you cannot see that the evil in the world began as the evil in your own home.” 4 1/2 stars. Homegoing is an incredible and horrific look at history, colonialism and slavery in Ghana and America, across 250 years. How the author managed to create such rich characters, cover so much history, and tell such a complex, but compelling story in only 300 pages, I do not know.I recently said in my review of East of Ed
How the author managed to create such rich characters, cover so much history, and tell such a complex, but compelling story in only 300 pages, I do not know.I recently said in my review of East of Eden that I love family sagas.
Each chapter is from the perspective of a new character; first Effia and Essi, and then six of their descendants, as the story tracks the cultural changes in both Ghana and America - through colonialism, racism, and attitudes to slavery.
Exceptionally engaging and the strongest case for reparations and black rage I've read in a long time.
The closer we get to present day, the more the chapters feel like they are designed, not so much as fictional narratives, but rather as vignettes meant to reveal specific historical moments and sociopolitical ideas-- the civil war, the end of slavery, the great migration, modern civil rights.
Regardless, Homegoing is one hell of a book and because the writing is so damn good, I actually appreciated the novel's flaws as a reminder that even a writer this incredibly talented is human.
In this semi autobiographical tale, Gyasi follows the family histories of two half sisters, Effia the beauty and Esi to reveal how their families end up.
Each chapter is a vignette focusing on a family member in subsequent generations, alternating between Effia and Esi's families until we reach present day.
Saved from a fire that plays a prominent role in her family's history for generations to come, Effia becomes the village's beauty long before she reaches marriageable age.
Each chapter tells the tale of the next member of each sister's family down to present time.
Great, right?My biggest issue was that this felt more like a collection of short stories than a novel.
When I read a novel, I want to feel connected to the characters and their stories, but with this book I feel like I never got to know the characters, like I only saw their surfaces.
It really shows how much can change over the course of a few generations, and looking at it like that makes me enjoy it a bit more.
However, in the end, I rate books based on how much I enjoyed the actual reading experience, so this gets 3 stars from me.
Spanning centuries and continents, the novel follows two families, one from the slave trading Fante nation and another from the Asante warrior nation, in the British colony that is now Ghana.
The other, in the lower dungeons of the same castle and sold as a slave, transported to the American South.
In alternating chapters, we go from Africa, to the south, and follow the descendants of the two women.
We see what happens in Africa, the effects of the British Colonization and internal warfare.
South Carolina and its eugenic provram.Rather than reading as a novel it is almost like portraits, snapshots of the lingering effects of slavery.
It’s a multigenerational family saga about two sisters born in 1700’s Ghana and separated at birth, and each chapter alternates between the different family lines, looking at a different generation each time.
I’m blown away that this was a debut novel.–Katie McLainfrom The Best Books We Read In September 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/10/03/riot-r...____________________Homegoing is a multi-generational saga that spans two continents and over two hundred years.
The fact that this is her first novel is almost incomprehensible, because it’s perfect.– Liberty Hardyfrom The Best Books We Read In June 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/06/29/riot-r...
but it will make your day better to know that there's a powerful new voice out there, telling important stories with truly captivating, transportative, effortless grace - it's exciting to read something that engages the mind and the emotions and makes you want more, especially in a debut.
...Fantastic debut novel ....powerful storytelling ....Having the physical book made it easy to refer to the family tree of generations.
KNOWING this ahead of time was useful information- for MY TURN in reading this book -- OTHER READERS REVIEWS HELPED GIVE ME A CONTEXT WITH THIS NOVEL....so that, I was able to avoid pitfalls - and get most value.
The way I saw the short chapters were a little like short stories WITH A PURPOSE contributing to the GREATER CONTEXT.,....The author drives home the evilness that slavery is.
After reading Homegoing I am literally spent!
Homegoing covers the mid 18th Century to present times.
It follows two different tribes in Ghana ( Fante and Asante), two different families, and specifically two half sisters, Effia and Esi and their offspring.
Both sisters are living in Ghana.
I felt part one was a solid 5 extremely powerful stars.
Part two was 3.5 stars because it felt a bit forced.
I read this book because of my friend Diane's review.
This is such a powerful debut and I can't wait to read her next book!
It's not an easy read but it is a very important one!!!
Homegoing is a multi-generational saga that follows the descendants of two half sisters, Effia and Esi, across three centuries, beginning in eighteenth-century Ghana and arriving at the present day.
Each chapter of Homegoing introduces a new character, which means readers are subjected to endless amounts of backstory - seamlessly integrated albeit wearisome.
In many cases, when a character's story reaches its apex, the chapter ends, giving no immediate sense of resolution.
The most notable characters are half sisters Effia and Esi. The entire book hinges on their having never met, and it seems like a missed opportunity not to have dedicated the novel to their story alone.
Then, there are those rare occasions where you read a book, finish it, simply close the book, and sit there stunned.
You think to yourself, what the heck do I read next, knowing the next book will not compare.
Knowing you can't get that original book out of your head and for days after finishing, that is all you think about.
I would highly suggest to pick up the audio but also, using the family tree of descendants to keep track of everyone.This is so far my best of 2016, a favorite, and one I would read again in the future.
Right now it feels as if it's torn my heart and soul apart reading this deeply emotional book.
The conditions that these people were kept in was simply appalling, and it wasn't as if life was going to improve once they were transported to a new country, because they would be kept as slaves with no real identity - they were just some rich man's chattel, there to do their master's bidding.
There to research a future novel, she visits Cape Coast Castle where slaves were kept in dungeons while awaiting transport to the new world.
The novel moves between continents and over centuries to follow the descendants of two half-sisters from Ghana’s Cape Coast.
It’s a testament to the author’s talent that she is able to draw you in quickly with each short story that ultimately highlights the human dimensions of slavery’s legacy, racism and of a segregated culture.This is an eloquent, spare and poignant book.
» The book proceeds to tell the stories of characters in each subsequent generation, alternating between Effia’s line in Africa and Esi’s in the states.» Projecting into slavery and racism in the abstract is bad enough, but when it’s personalized through characters we come to know and admire, it sucks even worse.» Life in Africa wasn’t always great either with raids on villages, battles against the Brits, my-way-or-the-highway missionaries, and complicity among the Asante in the slave trade.» Character profiles allowed Gyasi to hit on many endemic hardships.
An absolutely stunning debut; one of the best I've read. Yaa Gyasi captures so many stories and handles them beautifully. We need more novels like this. And it's only her first! I can't wait to see what she does next.
The novel mingles the stories of two half-sisters which never met, who lived in Ghana in the slave commerce period and of seven generations of descendants that followed.
We follow Esi as she is sold into slavery and then we are introduced to her descendants as they struggle as slaves and then as free black people in racist America.
It was impressive that for a small book (300 pages) it packs a lot of history of the hardship black people had to face because of slavery from the 18 century until recent times.
This novel, that reads like a collection of short stories, has the unique setting of each chapter following a different character's perspective, a new generation that follows on from its descendants - from Ghana to Harlem - that are often referred back to.
The story is emotionally brutal and complicated and the characters are extremely well-developed to the point we get to know them intimately though not much time is spent with them.
Even though a generous amount of time passes between each chapter, it still reads like a full story.
4.5 StarsCovering the Asante and Fante tribes from 18th Century to the present, Homegoing follows two different families, two half sisters, Effia and Esi and their offspring.
Both sisters are born in Ghana, spend their early years in Ghana, Esi is shipped to America as a slave.
Effia stays in Ghana and marries a British soldier who works in the slave trade, living in the Castle above the caves, where Esi is first taken before beginning shipped to America.
Effia’s lineage stays in Ghana, enduring their own terrible conditions, bearing their own sorrows, until one leaves for a life in America.
Homegoing is a journey of history.
Black history.
Two half sisters are born - one to each tribe and unknown to each other.
One sister is selected to marry a white man who negotiates slaves and lives in prosperity; the other, is stolen and traded to live a life of hardship and heartbreak as a slave.The narrative takes several paths from these women - the generations that follow their legacy always bringing each home to their roots of who they are and where they came from.
Beautiful prose, vivid descriptions and an emotional connection that was heartbreaking.
One sister wed to a British slave trader and the other doomed to the horrific fate of a slave bound for the American south, both will suffer from the legacy of slavery, injustice and greed as the consequences seep through the generations of each of their families.
I was familiar with the stories of the southern plantations, the lives of those that were “free” but oppressed by the Jim Crow laws, and the great migration to the north where many sought what they hoped would be a better future for their families and children.
But each story I hear is unique, each individual has their own personal sufferings, and I cannot help but feel for every single one.
Yaa Gyasi’s Homegoing is an ambitious and powerful novel which follows the descendants of two half-sisters in Ghana, some of the descendants stay in Ghana and some are shipped to America as slaves.
In one way, the chapters of this novel (which follow descendants of the two sisters and span roughly 250 years) read like short stories because they introduce a totally new character in a new locale.
Marcus’s not finding his way all the way back to those sisters in Ghana show how difficult it is to penetrate the lived history of slavery in this country.
I don't even know how many times I fell in love and got my heart broken but DAMN IT WAS WORTH IT.The truth is though, many readers won't read it, because of several excuses :First off : Homegoing deals with slavery, through an incredible family saga.
You are missing the point entirely, because what you're so proud of isn't your country but merely a fake, dangerous and empty shell.Then there comes the compelling excuse.
Homegoing is compelling and enthralling, I fell in love twenty times, my heart constantly breaking itself then healing then breaking then - the FEELS.
We believe the one who has power. He is the one who gets to write the story. So when you study history you must ask yourself, Whose story am I missing? A literary DNA test of Homegoing would reveal it to be a direct descendant of Chinua Achebe’s Things Fall Apart; but whilst the latter is a pioneering attempt at a coherent English-language novel that explores the sociopolitical impact of British colonialism on the Nigerian native, Ms Gyasi’s book suffers under the weight of its own scope and, a
This shows that both British and the black natives were guilty participants in the original sin to start up the transatlantic slave trade but whilst Western countries gained a huge economy on the back of slave labour, what little the natives got paid for it did not benefit their local economies in any substantial way.I liked how a local Fante myth (superstition?) was used to imagine the story of the two half-sisters who did not know about each other's existence and whose mother at first suffered the fate of the captured slave, beaten and raped, from which a girl was born, but later found happiness with a man who had taken her after her fiery escape.
Because it--coupled with a once-in-a-lifetime trip into el mero corazon Azteca i.e. Mexico, Distrito Federal--affected me so much at just the correct time, Homegoing for me is THE BOOK OF THE YEAR.
It tackles huge themes (the main & overpowering ingredient in all the realm of literature is this confidence on the auteurs part to handle & fashion the ethereal) with the verocity and insatiability of a killer shark.
Gyasi is the perennial literary Great White Shark--less common this species is than the Great White Whale of Literatureland.
Each one of Homegoing's stories is a tragic-filled morsel of third world suffering.
Talk about ending my reading year with a bang; Homegoing by Yaa Gyasi blew me, and my expectations, away. It was everything I could ever ask for in a book, and the stories will stick with me for the rest of my life.  “The family is like the forest: if you are outside it is dense; if you are inside you see that each tree has its own position.”  This is, hands down, the best family saga I've ever read, and this is only Yaa Gyasi's debut novel! In three-hundred pages, Yaa Gyasi shows us seven gener
In three-hundred pages, Yaa Gyasi shows us seven generations in fourteen different points of view; each of which will leave you haunted, and start important discussions about the world we live in today.
I know I sound like a broken record, but this book is so important.Homegoing is a story unlike any other I've ever read; as stated above, we follow the seven generations of two half-sisters who never even got the chance to know one another.
I also became addicted to looking at the family tree every new point of view.
It was mildly reminiscent of Twelve Tribes of Hattie except that there was continuity between characters, eras and geographic migrations.After reading this book, there were so many things I wanted to Google about colonialism, post-Civil War slave labor, etc.The last ten percent of the book was a little pedestrian and the ending a little contrived, but I still appreciated the author's effort to make everything come full circle.
Go read this book.
NOW.I don't care what you're doing or what you're reading.
You should have intense FOMO about this.
So much that you will stop what you're doing and get your hands on a copy ASAP.I don't throw around 5 stars often so you should take this as a huge "get your ass to your library or bookstore and get a copy of this."Take the day off.
Binge read the shit out of this book.
Then, experience that rare book hangover that makes you question everything, including hard facts you know about yourself, including your name and DOB.
4.5 Hard to believe this is a debut novel.This follows the families of two half sisters Effia and Esi in Ghana at the beginning of slavery in the eighteenth century. Effia gets married to a Brit and her descendants for the most part stay in Ghana through brutal conditions. Esi's descendants traded off to the American slave market and we follow them here...I never knew about the beginnings of slavery before this book... So many memorable characters. Very good, highly recommended.
An ancient humpbacked apothecary with a wildly rolling crazy eye stumps around with a serpent-headed cane. Watch out, this old woman has a predilection for spitting. Although she cannot make impossible things come true, she can 'make the possible attainable'. Black magic, voodoo, bad juju. One who dreams of a firewoman and another with a deathly fear of water. From the Gold Coast and slave ships to Harlem's jazz joints and junkies, this is an exceptional novel of slavery and freedom, and all that they imply.
Confusing if you try to keep track in your head of the familial relationship of the long string of characters, generation after generation and on different continents.
The story doesn't flow clearly from one descendant to the next; it jumps in time and place, from the African Gold Coast (present day Ghana) to the US.
The story starts in the middle 1700s and progresses forward in time by means of jerks and backtracks.
The story ends at the turn of the 21st century.
This is less a story about a family than about the travails of black people over the centuries and on different lands.
