https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/517188.The_Prime_of_Miss_Jean_Brodie
My initial reaction is, take Dead Poets Society, make the students young women instead of young men, replace the character played by Robin Williams with Iago and -poof! - you have this novel.
Caught in the swirling emotions of her overly dramatized romances, Miss Brodie underestimates the powerful influence she has over the lives of these impressionable young women that will lead one of them to betray her trust.Besides the not so original plot, what resulted more fascinating to me is the technique through which Muriel Spark unfolds the personalities and the outcome of the characters.
Or Jenny’s natural beauty?Nevertheless, the life experiences of these girls are irrelevant to the escalating dramatic tension of the narrative, where a somewhat cruel humor takes the stage and the eccentricity of Miss Brodie, whose emotions remain hidden from the reader and are only glimpsed through the girls’ perspectives, boosts to create a memorably ignoble character whose passion for life exceeds her manipulative nature.
He became a leading figure in the age of socio-cultural reform movements in Bengal in the dawn of the 19th century through his dissemination of Western philosophical and scientific ideas at a time when our society was stagnating in a cesspool of ignorance and blind prejudices.
But following the pattern of reception of new ideas which are regarded 'radical' and therefore dangerously subversive in their times, Derozio was expelled from the Hindu College and this in turn applied an abrupt brake on the Young Bengal movement.
As I started reading The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, I imagine I would like it.
As she plays with her narrative, going forward and backward in time, and going into the fanciful daydreams of the girls – particularly in the figure of Miss Brodie’s most promising student, Sandy – the story reads so easily that it could delude the reader to think it was effortlessly done.
It is true that Miss Brodie tends to tell the girls about her ideas and love affairs, rather than drilling them with their lessons, but they are still her 'creme de la creme'.
In the narrative, we read how Miss Brodie defines her pupils, Sandy, she calls insightful.
Politics, a mere side interest, will be her downfall, and her Judas will differ from the traditional one in the fact that she does not really feel guilt - one can only betray where loyalty is due, she thinks, and once you look underneath the shiny surface, all narcissists - even those in their prime - look ridiculous.As stories go, this one sparkles just as much as a glass of vintage champagne.
For the record, though: don't try to achieve Miss Brodie's downfall by checking her drinking habits, she barely shares a half-bottle of sherry with her set of six girls on her birthday.
A masterpiece.Rather like The Girls of Slender Means you are strongly aware of the economical construction, the careful rocking of the narrative backwards and forwards in time so that you know everything that will happen in the story in advance.
(hide spoiler)] by the author herself, which might be clever considering that she's dead (view spoiler)[ but that is what books and reading can do - they allow wicked scheming dead people to drop ideas into empty heads (hide spoiler)].This is to be expected, because this is a book about teaching and education, is education as the word implies, about leading forth, as one might lead a donkey up and down a beach, or is education about stuffing things into to the tender heads of young people.
One thing I am definitely sure of though, 'The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie' is definitively British through and through.Short and bittersweet, this features a quite sublimely constructed narrative full of wit and brevity where the story focuses on the comic and ultimately tragic schoolmistress Jean Brodie (partly based on Spark’s own teacher at her Edinburgh school), and her set of six wonderfully distinctive girls (Monica, Sandy, Rose, Mary, Jenny, and Eunice) getting the most out of her prime years.
"Who is the greatest Italian painter?""Leonardo da Vinci, Miss Brodie.""That is incorrect.
The answer is Giotto, he is my favourite."Jean Brodie.
Oh Miss Jean Brodie.
She may be one of my new favourite heroines in literature.
I mean she's like up there with Emma Bovary from Madame Bovary, she's that good.
I think there were other characters in this novel?
Idk. I don't care.
I love Jean.
Jean.
Jean.
Jean.
Hmmm I'm starting to think I liked her character more than the book itself.
I'd recommend this just so you can read probably one of the greatest characters in 20th Century fiction.
4.5/5 Give me a girl at an impressionable age, and she is mine for life. It wasn't until recently that I became aware of how teachers had viewed me during my high school years. To be frank, I was surprised that they had acknowledged me at all, let alone discussed me amongst themselves. This discussion extended out from time to time to parents associated with the school, one of whom is now a very good friend of mine and my reason for knowing about this at all. I was liked, apparently, for being a
I do like my literature that takes childhood seriously, and while this is no The Instructions, there's a cynical naïvety to it that I well recognize.While I would better remember and hold my school years in more esteem had I encountered an incarnation of Miss Jean Brodie in her prime, I spend enough time as it is in deconstructing all that I thought I knew in those days of desks and paper and the persistent feeling of an invisible cage, otherwise known as bits and pieces solipsism.
“It occurred to Sandy, there at the end of the Middle Meadow Walk, that the Brodie set was Miss Brodie's fascisti, not to the naked eye, marching along, but all knit together for her need and in another way, marching along. That was all right, but it seemed, too, that Miss Brodie's disapproval of the Girl Guides had jealousy in it, there was an inconsistency, a fault. Perhaps the Guides were too much a rival fascisti, and Miss Brodie could not bear it.” One commonly featuring theme with all the
And it is only to be expected, children are highly impressionable and, a simple application of Butterfly effect or any of psychological theories (except Humanism), shows what an effect a small change early on can have on one’s life – those early stages are the perfect opportunity for anyone wanting to play God:
Now Miss Jean Brodie is no fan of this McGonagallism school of play-acting, she is a rebel (the only good thing about her) and she does seem to believe in teaching children about lifestyle choices.
And teachers play a vital role in causing a positive influence over their pupils.“To me education is a leading out of what is already there in the pupil's soul.” This is the story of Miss Jean Brodie who claims to be "in her prime", through her so called experimental methods, teaches her set of close pupil-confidantes what she thinks as requisite for the lives of those little girls: Art, Traveling, Love, and Fascism.
Miss Brodie is a primary school teacher of unorthodox method who takes certain pupils under her wing to influence them; they become her “set” and remain so, even after they leave her direct sphere of influence and start senior school.
We follow the set from the end of primary school, through senior school and into glimpses of their later lives and sometimes deaths.
Despite the fluid language Spark limits what she gives the reader about Miss Brodie; we are never alone with her; her presence is mediated by someone else; one of the set usually.
Miss Jean Brodie is a magnetic minor fascist -- which surprised me, knowing little about the book beforehand except that a.) it was made into a movie starring Maggie Smith and b.) that this cover is cute and also very twee.But what Spark does here is let the reader see with the eyes of the "Brodie set," of six distinctive girls who follow their teacher in and out of the classroom from their pre-adolescent through their teenage years.
As the girls -- especially Sandy -- come of age and gain clarity, slips of Miss Brodie's egomania, manipulations, and fascist leanings come out, all encased in the silly frivolity that charmed the girls when they were young.
The gang who oppose me shall not succeed."- Muriel Spark, The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
I loved its style and prose, and was enraptured by Miss Brodie with her unconventional, romantic, and desperate need to matter, to influence, to be something.
Influenced by Miss Brodie, in her Prime, but just not in the way Miss Brodie intended, Sandy's romantic view of life mirrors in some ways Miss Brodie.
I'm glad I found the radical Miss Jean Brodie while I was in my prime.
Its protagonist Miss Jean Brodie is a teacher during the 1930s at a school for girls called Marcia Blaine High School.
Sometimes Miss Brodie takes her set out into the school lawn to teach them below the shade of a tree.
There are days when Miss Brodie takes her set out for a walk or to the theatre or to a dance recital or to her home for tea.Class photograph of the Junior Class of James Gillespie's Girls' School in 1930.
It is a flawless book which I highly recommend to anyone who loves reading about schools and the relationship between teachers and students.A poster of the film "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie" (1969).
Much of the novel is relayed through the eyes of Sandy Stranger, who enters Miss Brodie's class in 1930, and becomes a confidante of the teacher.Miss Brodie virtually wages war on the school; as the embattled headmistress, Miss Mackay, attempts to reign in her disturbing influence on the girls and find a way to force her to resign.
This is, in many ways, a disturbing read, as Sandy looks back on her life as a schoolgirl as one of the elite 'Brodie set' and muses on her ultimate betrayal...
Miss Jean Brodie is the kind of co-dependent teacher that smart kids steer clear of -- except here she attracts otherwise likable school girls and prods them along this tiresome plot like dying heifers.
Spark's flat characters repeat the same dumb one-liners until you wonder how anyone ever thought this author was clever.
But when compared to carrying on as a character in this book, those both seem like pretty attractive options to me.
But perhaps this book did teach me something valuable about myself -- there is a limit to what I will tolerate in the name of culture, classics, and feminism.
This book lies somewhere far beyond.
Less of a teacher and more of a life coach, Miss Jean Brodie is to Morningside in the 1930s what Rachel Zoe was to Paris, Nicole, Misha et al in Beverly Hills in the noughties.The Brodie set is a group of archly self aware girls, all hand picked by the charming, erudite and broadly fascist Jean Brodie as her cultural mini-me’s.
Minds which she is responsible for sculpting and shaping and based on the description of these six girls, their minds were probably the equivalent of warm play-dough squished within an iron fist.
A sterling example of literary compression and the effective use of non-chronological narrative structure. A book that gets the reader involuntarily exclaiming aloud such is its brilliance, its self assurance, its high level of artistic attainment.
but i would argue that except for sandy and miss brodie, and perhaps lloyd, the art instructor who plays such a pivotal role, many of the characters are static stick figures, easily interchangeable -- surely, i thought jenny might well play the same part as rose in this novel?
and at this point now, i can barely remember any of the rest of the brodie set, except that they were there to make up the set, one liked this and another liked that, and there was a maligned one who was their scapegoat (a similar pitiable character was also featured in the girls of slender means.) also, i grew tired of reading about sandy's tiny eyes -- must we hammer home ms.
But despite her own unassailable convictions, life does not always work out as planned and amongst her own set there will be those who begin to question her authority and her purpose.A writer with a keen eye, a biting wit and a pithy sense of the comic, Muriel Spark created in Jean Brodie a character who remains as vivid and recognisable as she was in 1963, the year the book was published.
3: As she seeks to mould her 'set' of girls of 'an impressionable age', into the 'crème de la crème', and as her love life becomes complicated by affections for, and from, the art and the singing masters, she identifies two girls, one of 'instinct' and one of 'insight', in whom her ambitions will chiefly lie.
Whilst initially appearing to have the welfare of her special students at heart, Miss Brodie's primary motivation appears to be to control and manipulate her pupils, and ultimately this is a disturbing portrait of a self-obsessed and psychologically disturbed teacher.
Not only does Miss Brodie appear to want to force her special pupils - The Brodie Set - to fulfil a destiny she has predetermined, she also has cast each girl into a tightly defined character.
Ultimately that is the most puzzling thing about the book - on one level it's just a quirky story about a slightly weird teacher, on another more profound level I think Miss Brodie is meant to mirror her fascist leader heroes.
The central theme of this book focuses upon the pivotal role a teacher can play in the lives of young students.
Reading this book will make you think back to your own youth and that teacher who meant the world to you.
We are shown not only what happens to Miss Jean Brodie, but also what became of her six chosen students.
I do understand why she (view spoiler)[betrayed Miss Jean Brodie, if one can call this betrayal.
I think she became a nun because first in (view spoiler)[sleeping with Teddy Lloyd and then in taking his faith she “stole” him from Miss Brodie.
As I finished the novel, I was blaming myself for taking least interest in the beginning and at the same time was congratulating myself for having completed it.Few Observations:This is a novel about a teacher, Miss Brodie who wants to make of her students many more Miss.
She felt Almighty with her students.This aspect gains all the more weight when we look at the setting this novel takes place in.
Now, in this light when we place Miss Brodie, she appears as a dictator who wants to have 'one head for all her students.'The wit of Muriel Spark is not very much visible in the language.
Of Mussolini,Don't Preach To the Teenies Where You Teach"it's only possible to betray where loyalty is due"Sandy, now Sister Helena of the Transfiguration, is the omniscient narrator of the story looking back at her time in the 1930s at a Catholic grade school in Edinburgh, Scotland, time spent as part of the set of six girls who their teacher Miss Brodie called her "creme de la creme." Ms. Sparks used a number of flash-forwards to most effectively and methodically convey the ultimate betrayal of Miss Jean Brodie by one of the set, which ruined Miss Brodie's teaching career.
Very nearly four stars, but I can't go that high because the author doesn't provide a strong enough motivation for the girl who betrays Miss Brodie.
Miss Jean Brodie is a forty-something Scottish school teacher who never tires of reminding people that she is IN HER PRIME.
Someday when I have nothing better to do, I may just go through and count how many times we are told by Miss Brodie (and her girls) that she is IN HER PRIME.
Meanwhile, whenever I want an excuse for my eccentric behavior, I will simply state that I am IN MY PRIME.3 3/4 stars
This was a lot of fun. Only I'm surprised it's not shelved as comedy or satire. Or is that just me? I really should watch the film, with the wonderful Maggie Smith, it's even on YouTube, in fact I'm off to watch it now.
Typical.Still when it finally found its way in to my hands I didn't want to put it down such was the pleasure I was having in getting to know Miss Brodie and her set, and for most people I'm sure they won't have to, it's such a slim volume.When Colin Firth refers to Ruth Gemmell as Miss Jean Brodie in Fever Pitch I had assumed he was referring to how dour, strict and rigid she was, turns out he was referring to the single woman giving the prime of her life to teaching (not sociopathically however) teenagers.
That misinterpretation seems to have led my ignorance of the work of Dame Spark and specifically this hugely enjoyable read.Miss Jean Brodie in her prime is a strong, independent woman who strongly believes that a girl should be fully prepared for life via her education and not simply prepared for exams.
This was found to be a savage novel of joyous innocence and taciturn bile. It is remarkable and completely bereft of flaws in its dazzling passage.
Yes, this was a very slightly cool novel with schoolgirls being taught "advanced" ideas by Miss Brodie. In other hands you might have got something along the lines of Emanuelle Goes To College but the glinty eyed Miss Spark keeps the whole thing perfectly respectable, if that can include being a fan of Italian fascism.
