https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56305.The_Yoga_Sutras
The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali as explained by Swami Satchidnanda is a mandatory part of most yoga teacher trainings, and thankfully it was for mine.
This is not a book that you read from cover to cover like a novel, but it is something that you pick up, read, absorb, think about, put into practice, and then read some more.It has lessons about yoga, lessons about life and lessons about being a good person.
It's also one of those books that each time you read it, you'll find something different depending on where you are in your own personal journey.
This is not a book to be "read", but rather one to contemplate. I've "finished" it, but will return to it to reread many times.Satchdananda was one of the best-known and best loved Yoga masters and teachers in the US. His commentaries on Patanjali's sutras are simple; he uses excellent examples to illustrate their meaning. But in the end, as so many others in Zen and related paths have said, he states that reading about a spiritual pathway is ultimately useless; it can help but is no substitute for the direct experience of the way itself.
Good introductory translation. Excellent for first-time readers of the Sutras. If you want to dive deeper in, though, I suggest Edwin Bryant's translation. If you'd like a Buddhist perspective, check out Chip Hartranft's.
This book is the best translation of Patanjali's works that I found.
It is because the author is living with the wisdom of The Yoga Sutras.
This book contains the the translations of The Yoga Sutras, and the explanation about the meaning and the goal of each sutras, and Sri Swami Satchidananda's explanation is a very easy read, even if you never know the yoga philosophy before.
Just read 1 sutra each day and practice it, you will see a dramatic changes in your life.
If you just read 1 book about The Yoga Sutras of Patanjali, this is the book, period!
There are countless interpretations and commentaries on the Yoga Sutras, originally compiled by Patanjali thousands of years ago.
This book was originally published in 1978 and the examples he uses still apply (both ironic and sad).
etc.If you are looking for a complete commentary on the Yoga Sutras, this is not the book for you.
Swami summarizes and skips over certain sutras entirely within Books 3 & 4.
That being said, this isn't a be-all end-all translation (no book is), so I implore you to read other Yoga Sutras commentaries as well.
This book showed me that coming to the end of external knowledge about God is actually the beginning of the journey to look inward and know His nature.
Made me interested in the early Christian Gnostics who believed we could know God through his reflection in ourselves.
Also introduced me to the concept that the question of the existence of God is unanswerable and irrelevant--you can't prove it or disprove it, and no matter what, the path to contentment in this life is the same as the path to contentment in the next life: freeing yourself from the cycle of desire.
I read one or two sutras before each yoga practice.
After finally finishing it, I know I need to go back to it and study the sutras with some intensity.
There is much wisdom bestowed in these pages, and there were many moments while reading, I gained clarity on the way I interact and respond with my environment.Highly recommended for any devoted yoga practitioner, but also for those who are interested in asian philosophy.
Although yoga is not defined by one religion, the influences of Hinduism and Buddhism are apparent.
I liked how Satchidananda used present day examples to explain the sutras and did not hesitate to incorporate science.
very accessible introduction to the yoga sutras
The very first sutra sets up the book so well, “If the restraint of the mental modifications is achieved, one has reached the goal of yoga.” (pg.
3) I like this because it shows that even though a person may not be able to move through all the asanas perfectly, they can still perform yoga by controlling their mind.
If we can learn that the entire outside world is our own projection, then we can control our attitude.
This is because we have placed an expectation on the person that we love.
Ooo gosh, what to say about the sutras? And I guess I should 'review' the commentary rather than the sutras themselves.... The sutras are stuff like 'the restraint of the modifications of the mind-stuff is yoga' so they are kinda impenetrable and it's helpful to have the commentary. This commentary is from 1978 I think, and it has a bit of a seventies feel to it in a slightly sexist gender binary way.There are also some lovely bits and interpretations, also the cover is a delight.
Satchitananda's translation and commentary on Patanjali's Sutras is the best edition I've read. He makes these often pretty inscrutable ancient texts come alive with great clarity and even occasional humor. I treasure reading and meditating on these often.
Though I cannot sit and read this book in full - I love that I can open to a page and that it makes so much helpful sense.
This text is absolutely essential to the history of yoga.
I read this for the first time outside of a yoga teacher training because it's a text I thought you were "supposed" to read if you do yoga.
I don't know what I'd do without our yoga philosophy instructor, she has gathered such DETAILED historical and lineage based context that compliment the sutras, I don't doubt she'll publish her own book someday.
Due to our training being of the Tantric lineage (Shiva/Shakti / everything is divine, you are divine), I find that Patanjali is quite silly at times.
This is a book that I read pieces and parts of for my yoga teacher training this weekend. It is one of those books that I will come back to over and over again.
A foundational text for yoga practitioners or anyone seeking a closer bond between body, mind, and soul. The commentary is quite helpful, providing a jumping off point for further exploration. Which is exactly what Patanjali inspires: a lifetime of investigation.
For Patanjali, the physical practice of yoga is simply a means of calming the mind, and the vast majority of the sutras are about the mind; it can be a little easier for the modern student to begin with the practical sutras in Book Two before working on the contemplative sutras in Book One.This version of the sutras follows a helpful format: for each sutra, the original Sanskrit is given, along with the Sanskrit transliteration, the literal translation, and finally a translation set in readable English prose.
After each sutra follows commentary from Swami Satchidananda.
A yoga classic that contains a lot of wisdom. Must be read carefully 'cause every verse has a very specific meaning and contains a beautiful yogic wisdom. Written 2,000 years ago Patanjali's yoga sutras are still applicable to all the yogis of the present day. A good commentary is a must. I also found that Sivananda Swami version of the book and the OSHO Rajneesh version is a valuable read for the good comparison and understanding of the sutras.
Yoga means to ‘Yoke”. The Sutras are the method of yoking yourself to Yoga. The original Hellenistic Greek which was the ‘Lingua Franca” of pre Christian interpretations of the Bible had two definitions of Yoke. One was for Yoga and the other was to yoke two oxen together. Jesus said that his “yoke” was easy. I am convinced that this is a deliberate misinterpretation of the New Testament and the real meaning was that Jesus was referring to “Yoga” or “ My Yoga is easy” which makes more sense in that time frame than to be talking about oxen.
This is the must read for most new yoga teachers. The exploration of Patanjalis guidance for yogis is essential for anyone who wants to teach or deepen their practice. However, I do not personally think this is the only interpretation one should read. I'd recommend also looking at TKV Desikachar and modern thinkers like Matthew Remski to really dig deep into the sutras, and find a way to relate to them.
یوگا سوترا که توسط پاتانجلی نوشته شده شامل 196 سوترا هست. واژه ی سوترا به معنی رشته نخ و در اینجا به این مناسبت به کار رفته که در زیر هر لغت نوشته ایست که تفکر ممتد را حمل می کند تا یک فلسفه ی کامل را با عقیده های مختلف شکل دهد. سوتراهای پاتانجلی به عنوان دقیق ترین و علمی ترین متنی که تا به حال درباره ی یوگا نوشته شده در نظر گرفته شده است.
This is my bible. Hardly have completed reading it. And what I have read I need to re-read. Great book for meditation topics.
The commentary was more accessible than that in the Iyengar version. I am glad to have read both.
I've read it through once but going through slowly in conjunction with 2 other yoga sutra books making study notes.
The "self-fish".
You don't need to kill the self-fish.
Just keep it in your aquarium."This is an interesting look at the Yoga Sutras from Patañjali.The translation includes modern English but doesn't sound particularly American (see the use of probably above) or British so it's a sort of neutral English translation.
The book includes the sutra in Sanskrit, a rough English translation, and the author's notes on it.
There's a wide breadth of guidance for practicing yoga throughout the book from negative thoughts to living in the world with detachment, abstaining from sex, and how karma shapes people.
It's hard to review a text that's thousands of years old and that thousands of people have come to regard as a kind of scripture.
I read this in preparation for a yoga teacher training, and it is so far the densest text I have read in that context.
What I DID feel I understood was meaningful and applicable to my life, and that's what I feel like people are really asking for from a text of this nature.
My first encounter with The Yoga Sutras was the translation by Alistair Shearer, and it was eye-opening and wonderful, but in my quest to keep growing as both a teacher and a student, I felt it was time to revisit the Sutras from another's perspective.
I got a lot out of Satchidananda's translation and commentary.
I particularly love how he incorporates stories and examples from not only Hindu and Buddhist traditions, but from Judaism, Christianity, Islam, and other traditions as well.
It's a great reminder that when you get right down to it, we're all on the same journey, just taking different paths.
This book is essential for all students on the path of yoga.Yoga is not just about the asanas, or physical practice. It is also about quieting the mind and maintaining equanimity.There are 4 books contained within this and each book contains Sutras that are thoughtfully laid out and translated by Sri Swami Satchidananda.The most vital one is: Book 1 Sutra 2: Yoga Citta Vritti Nirodha = The restraint of the modification of mind stuff is yoga. If you can achieve this, you have attained the goal of yoga.Absolutely transformational book; highly recommend.
Der Weise nimmt das Leiden an, denn Leiden wird leicht ausgelöst: durch die Vergänglichkeit von allem—auch von wertvollen, dauerhaften Dingen—dadurch, dass nicht alles zu bekommen ist, was gewünscht wird, und weil der Mensch von gegensätzlichen Kräften bewegt und anzogen wird.Erst durch die Berührung mit der Welt der Objekte kann Klarheit über das eigene Wesen gewonnen werden.Wer sich fortwährend bemüht, das Leben zu verstehen, wird auch die eigene Aufgabe im Leben verstehen.Die Fähigkeit, Sein von Schein zu unterscheiden, ergibt sich aus der Versenkung in das Thema Zeit.
Three-line review: I am not religious and have no spiritual text that guides my life, but the yoga sutras offer sound and sage advice on how to be a good person, live a fully life, and stay in the present moment. I don't believe every single sutra is an incredible nugget of wisdom that should be dissected and dwelt upon extensively as some people do, but there is a lot of food for thought in such a short text. The translation is done well, providing practical and readable interpretations of the
﻿﻿Three-line review: I am not religious and have no spiritual text that guides my life, but the yoga sutras offer sound and sage advice on how to be a good person, live a fully life, and stay in the present moment. I don't believe every single sutra is an incredible nugget of wisdom that should be dissected and dwelt upon extensively as some people do, but there is a lot of food for thought in such a short text. The translation is done well, providing practical and readable interpretations of the sometimes difficult-to-understand verbiage.
As an amateur yoga practitioner, I was recommended this book to read and contemplate upon. Two Sutras which cover the essence of the book are mentioned below:1. The restraints of the modifications of the mind-stuff is Yoga.2. Then the Seer (self) abides in its own nature.Some of the sutras sound esoteric and probably I'll be able to decipher them when I revisit the book again over my lifetime. I intend to explore Raja yoga by Swami Vivekananda and Light on Yoga by BKS Iyengar to further explore this genre.
