https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165030.Anybody_Out_There_
After reading this book I decided that I will probably never loan it out because I will want to read it over and over again.This is, by far, the most emotionally provocative book I've ever read.
For about the first 25 chapters or so, I was convinced I knew what was going on, only to be hurled into an entire weekend of crying and page-turning.
I couldn't stop crying, yet I couldn't put it down.
This book made me realize so many things about myself, life, death, and what it really and truly means to love someone so completely that you would be nothing without them.Now, I plan to read all of Marian Keyes' other books.
Books with negligible literary attributes (like no plot, no character development, poor writing, etc....ehh hmmm...
Marian Keyes' books definitely do not fall into the Literature category because they don't offer much in the way of new insights or artistic use of language, but as far as Crap goes, they are pretty high quality.
I definitely couldn't write that well while maintaining such a complexity of characters and plot lines for 600 pages.
The fact that I am capable of losing myself in 600 pages about cosmetics, a topic that I know absolutely nothing about and have no interest in, is testament to the quality and pace of the writing and the story.
My best friend recommended this and I have to thank her for it. A lovely book, I remember crying my eyes out so I often had to put it down, get a grip and then go on. Easily read even though I hadn't read the first 3 books of the Walsh Family series. If you enjoyed books by Ahern or Kinsella then you will love Keyes' style!
I'd have to put this book in my list of top-ten favorites of all time!
I picked up the book-on-tape version at the library and immediately fell in love with Marian Keyes.
I had to get the print version to enjoy the story again, and I am not usually one to re-read books (because there are so many others on my "to-read" list)!
After reading this most engaging novel, I felt compelled to read all of Keyes' other books, most of which were wonderful as well.
I fell in love with him right along with her and felt endeared to him throughout the story.
This book is one terrible mess, which is surprising because it's written by a "bestselling" author.
I mean, the dialogue...does she really think people talk like that?
And what was up with all those boring email sections, which did nothing to add to the story.
The most obnoxious part of the story is the "plot twist" which happens about 200 pages into the book.
I'm fairly certain that everyone must know what the twist is about 50 pages into the story, and the rest of the pages leading up to the "shocking" twist are painful.
Why did I keep reading this book?
This was my first Marian Keyes book, so I haven't read the others about the Walsh sisters.
I think I have a hard time getting into a lot of books, it usually takes the first 100 pages before I care about the book.
Seriously, I read the majority of the book on Sunday afternoon (about 300 pages).I enjoy Anna, there is a lot that I can relate to about her under the surface.
Definitely a good read, now I think I need to read Watermelon so I can experience more of the other Walsh sisters.
When I realized where her story was heading I was a bit angry, as I was already in love with Anna and Andy as a couple...how could Keyes do this to me.
It was the delicate way that Keyes wove Annas story that made me keep reading through my anger =) I love how in each of these story about this family, one sisters life story, or segment of their life, is explored, and then you kind of get updates in the following sisters story.
One of my favorite quotes (cause I have felt this way before) is"Funnily enough, I wasn't that keen on butterflies.
The verdict is in.As I wandered down to my local coffee shop the other morning, I couldn’t help noticing a little pile of books somebody had put on the footpath, part of a clearing up.
Over the next couple of days the pile got smaller.
Somebody took the book on ’Twenty-two ways to improve the feng shui of your lavatory.’ And ‘Things you can do with bonsai plants if you have a front loader.’ Even the Booker Prize winner went missing.
Eventually all that was left was Marian Keyes Anybody Out There?
Apparently not, Marian.
Apparently not.
This was the first book by Marian Keyes that I've read, and it made me see why so many people like her!
She does a great job of keeping you guessing what has happened to Anna throughout the first 200 or so pages, until its finally revealed how she got her injuries and what has happened to Aidan.
Normally I might say that a book this long was a bit overdone and could've been cut back on, but I loved every page of it.
This book really pulled me into the story and made me feel for Anna so much.
As a result, I perhaps saw the Sullivan girls mature in a slightly different order than other people who read the books in "order."Nevertheless, I was confused by this book, and one other,  Rachel's Holiday.
The writing isn't bad, although the plot is a bit strange.
All in all, I felt if Keyes felt she needed to write this book, it should have been written as a stand-alone; I didn't feel the plot was well-served by being compressed into a standing character structure that really did not allow for the interplay between the characters here.
If nothing else, again, I feel this book would have been better "delegated" to Rachel.
I had a hard time being convinced that their relationship was so amazing and am pretty sure that had this been a real couple, it would have seemed so great simply because she'd only been with the guy for a year and half - fully still within the infatuation stage.
I also felt like Keyes tried a little too hard to be cutesy, especially in the first part of the book when describing the woman's family.
She toned it down for the second half of the book, though, which made it much more bearable.Anyway, not a terrible read for the beach or a plane ride.
and the other one was with this great one by Marion Keyes.
It's been ages since I read PS I Love You by Cecilia Ahern but I think the premise was similar - in this one, the main character has been seriously injured in a car crash that has killed her newlywed husband.
I loved it - she's an Irish woman living in NYC and her family back in Dublin is hilarious, and the twist at the end of the book brings it to a satisfying conclusion.
I don't think I've ever been let down by Marion Keyes.
This wasn't quite as bad as I thought it would be, but it was not the kind of book I would ever have picked up on my own.
It's not that I dislike chicklit as a genre so much as that it is not a genre I will forgive occasional badness in so long as it presses my buttons, and this was just all sloppy writing and uninteresting characters.
Characters is kinda overstating it; they were more names plus associated collections of tics.But as I said, it was not as bad as I thought it would be.
first read: February 2011second read: December 2016This is one of my favourite books. It is rare that I read about a couple that is so obviously perfect for each other and so intensely in love. I miss that. This book is quirky, laugh out loud funny, and so emotional. Keyes nailed every part of this. It was long but I still wish that there was more to read.
3,5 sterren. Mooi verhaal met een emotioneel thema. Echter pakte het verhaal mij niet helemaal, wat ik jammer vond.
I love the various Marian Keyes books, especially the ones featuring the individual sisters from the Irish family, the Walshes.
Her books are almost standard chick-lit fare, but Keyes's writing and her doses of Irish wickedness make them stand above the crowd.This book features the fourth Walsh sister, Anna.
We've met Anna in the other Walsh sister books, where she's something of a spacey, hippie-ish waif, but here she's been transformed into a savvy New York business woman--a bit of a stretch, I thought, but, hey, I was glad Anna seemed to have pulled herself together.
Anna Walsh sits and convalesces at her family home in Ireland, thinking obsessively of her husband, Aidan, and their life in New York.
Why, you wonder, does she not just call him?
Anna is surrounded in true Keyes fashion by a nutty mother, and an assortment of eccentric sisters.
Keyes is on top form in this novel and Anybody Out There?
Like her character, Anna Walsh, one has the sense that Marian Keyes also had to grow up eventually and deal with some hard truths.If you’ve dealt with the cocktail of loss and love and family, read Anybody Out There?
Mais um livro na senda da Família Walsh, relata durante um período a vivência traumática e sofrida da quarta filha ou irmã a Anna...mas sem nunca perder ainda assim o humor que esta escritora nos habituou.
This is literally the first book to ever make me cry. Another winner by Marian Keyes. 👏🏼
Part 1 of Anybody Out There was the best out of the three parts in this book.
I definitely did not see that coming, particularly because I thought this was going to be a breezy, easy, funny chick-lit.
Jacqui's side plot was funny enough that it kept me interested in Anybody Out There.
I found Helen to be funny and interesting at first, but after those emails, I was so incredibly bored with her character.
Another bad thing about Anybody Out There was the numerous side plots.
This is a story about one of the Walsh sisters.
There are five sisters in this Irish family that Marian Keyes has written several books about.
It begins with her in in Ireland at her parents' home, although we find out early that she lives in New York and is here recovering.
We also know that she misses Aidan very much and that she feels she must recover from her injuries quickly so that she can get back to New York to find him.
The Walsh family had me laughing out loud, while the Anna's story had me in tears.
If you like this book, try Keyes' other novels about the Walsh's.
Marian Keyes just doesn't have the "cool" factor as an author. This story would have been ok had it been condensed onto 1/3 of the pages and really what were those hideous emails from her ridiculous mother about.. they didn't add to the story at all.A really dumb read.
One of the reviewers of this book said she classifies books into either literature or crap.
I would probably call the second category "fluff" instead.
The reviewer also mentions there are levels within the categories.
This book is "fluff" but it has some good messages about the difficulty of the grieving process.
For about a third of the book, we don't know why Anna Walsh has been injured or why her husband doesn't seem to be responding to her.
But, with that said, I may read more of Marian Keyes "fluff" especially in the Walsh family series.
Her "fluff" provides some relief from more serious books/literature.
Keyes es una cachonda, y tiene mucha sorna contando azares sentimentales y sexuales con los que me he sentido muy identificado. Diré más: emplea con mejores resultados un recurso ya visto este año en una célebre novela negra; vamos, que aquí me pilló por sorpresa mientras que en la otra...El problema es que, pasado el impacto inicial, la historia consiste en vicisitudes entretenidas pero un tanto desnortadas; o realmente ya no importa tanto hacia dónde va. Eso sí, nunca desaparecerá de tu boca esa media sonrisa.
I enjoyed this book as I do with most of Marian Keyes' books. I agree though with my daughter Samantha, who read this book first and said she enjoyed it, but the story was a bit depressing. (Even Marian Keyes agreed!) I felt I knew the characters fairly well as they have been in a few of the books I have read by the same author. The family is quite big and lots of different things are going on all the time.
This was a fun book that read like a movie. Nice plot, though I felt that certain revelations would have been better later on in the book, and it left me hanging a little more than I would have liked. Fun, quick, good - (even.) And then it was done and mostly unremarkable. But good while it lasted.
Interesting family!! Plenty of funny , serious, sad and enjoyable times.
I love Anna, she is my favorite sister, and I was so moved by her story.
Having read this one first sort of ruined the others, although I loved them too, as I knew what would happen in the end for each sister in her relationships.
Although everyone reading the series should start with Watermelon, then read Rachel's Holiday, then Angels, and finally Anybody Out There?, you should start TODAY so you can get to this one ASAP.Anna is the fourth sister in the Walsh family.
The change in Anna happens in Rachel's Holiday, and continues in Angels.
Maybe I'm not used to reading these types of books, but we find out where Aiden is at the beginning of part two, and I was shocked - I had a totally different take on where he could be.Anna eventually goes back to NYC to resume her career as a PR Exec for Candy Grrrl, a popular make up line.
Emails go back and forth between Anna and her Mum and sister Helen in Ireland.While I did laugh at many of the lines in this book, it also address one of the hardest things that can happen in a woman's life.
I always particularly love the stories about the Walshes as you really get to know them throughout the series and the characters feel so real to me (I know that sounds a trite thing to say but they remind me of my mum's family!).When we've come across Anna in the earlier novels about her older sisters she's a bit of an f-up, but in Anybody Out There?
I don't want to give too much away here, but suffice to say you'll probably fall in love with Aiden along with Anna (the story of how they met and married is told throughout the book in flashback form) and find yourself a little bit heartbroken as well.
