https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11279.Summer_of_Night
Honestly most horror or suspense books feel lacking because it's hard to build a plot that keeps someone interested without giving everything away while balancing that with interesting characters and a unique plot line but some how this manages to do that.
I honestly haven't read anything else like this but I don't really read that extensive an amount of horror so take that with a grain of salt.
I really appreciate how well the ending was written too because honestly the only other writer I've read who writes this kind of genre is Stephen King and sometimes his endings are just flat and he's really good at building stories not so good at finishing them off.
What all happens during the summer of night? . . . . . . it's not pretty Old Central School still stood upright, holding its secrets and silences firmly within. Eighty-four years of chalkdust floated in the rare shafts of sunlight inside while the memories of more than eight decades of varnishings rose from the dark stairs and floors to tinge the trapped air with the mahogany scent of coffins. the walls of Old Central were so thick that they seemed to absorb sounds while the tall windows, their
Old Central School still stood upright, holding its secrets and silences firmly within.
the walls of Old Central were so thick that they seemed to absorb sounds while the tall windows, their glass warped and distorted by age and gravity, tinted the air with a sepia tiredness.
A three story school of creepiness and what secrets are in the basement and other parts of the school.
The story starts out when they are waiting to leave the school for summer break and they were never going to come back again as they were going to go to a newer school.
I love old school books where you feel like your a part of things past.
Dan Simmons' Summer of Night is an engaging and creepy page-turner.
The novel follows a small group of friends who are up against a malevolent entity.
I enjoyed the characters and the way they came together to battle evil (and save their town).
Summer of Night is a satisfying coming of age horror tale.
My biggest regret has little to do with the actual book and more to do with reading this almost immediately after reading Stephen King's It (which has a very similar story line and structure).
It was difficult, even as I read Summer of Night, not to make comparisons to It. Still, the writing was very good and the conclusion satisfying.
Enjoyed!
Simmons draws a map of this small town in your head so well that the reader can see everything that happens vividly.
I read other reviews criticizing the time the story takes to develop, but I feel that this is one of the strengths.
By this time, the reader is anticipating these events, which is almost worse.
The story sounds intensely cliche with young boys in a small town battling a larger evil, but I can assure you that Summer of Night is written so well and is so readable that you won't care.
When Tubby Cooke goes missing on the last day of sixth grade, Mike O'Rourke and his friends, the Bike Patrol, go looking and stumble upon Elm Haven's secret history of missing children and a turn of the century lynching.
While there was some excessive wordiness, Summer of Night quickly clamped on to me like a lamprey.Set in the summer of 1960, the summer after the end of sixth grade for most of the boys, Mike and friends get caught up in a mystery, a mystery that may or may not be be linked to a lynching at the turn of the century.
When you pick this book up at the store, you will notice that it is a thin book, and make the same assumption that I did, which was that I was about to read a 200-300 page story.
There is no wasted space in this book either; chapters begin on the same page as the last chapter ended, with only a few returns in between and a chapter heading.
These boys (and girl when she shows up) are the only ones who know that something is terribly wrong in their little home town.
you will find yourself worried about those little boys all day until you are able to finish the book.
Dan Simmons clearly has good intentions, but most of them are lost in complete staleness and cliches of the plot.So far, one of my favorite books I've re-read this year has been King's IT, which I consider one of his true masterpieces.
Ultimately, though, he failed to recapture the magic which King did so effortlessly.What could have been a beautiful coming of age novel turned out to be little more than a B-movie horror with all the traditional staples: haunted schools, posessed objects, creatures taking over people's bodies (there's even darkness that creeps under the bed!).
It goes right to the top with Boy's Life, Something Wicked This Way Comes and The Body as one of my favorite small town, coming of age books.
If you like any of those books you should enjoy this story.
There were a couple of scenes that seemed a bit far fetched but that's what these supernatural tales are all about, fighting back against seemingly impossible odds.Medicine smell?
Mike thought it was a medicine smell if you made medicine out of dead and rotting bodies.
It was a medicine smell if you counted the coppery scent of blood and the stench of week-old decay as medicinal.10/10
Those are the aspects of this book I enjoyed, even though I have no experience with those things.
We find out in the very first chapter that this is the last year Old Central, the school all four of our main characters attend, is going to be torn down the summer in which this story takes place.
The entire time while I was reading, I kept thinking, "If the boys do nothing at all, the evil will be vanquished.
Why isn't the school being torn down until AFTER the summer is over?
The boys should not have been the greatest threat to the evil within the school.
The book is long, counting 600 pages but I know I will read it over again in a few years and I'm sure it will taste even better, just like leftover dinner with the deepening flavors and spices.The story itself is around a school called Old Central, where Tubby, a not so god kid disappears on the last day.
Dale, Lawrance, Mike, Duane, Kev and Jim all go to the same school but they are very young, around 11 yrs old, some younger, some tad older yet they are real kids; at times with bratty tough attitudes, yet Simmons doesn't pretend to sketch out a superhero in a child's body, he takes each characters and builds on it making them as real to me as my own family.
This was a great story! Schools out and four friends have a wonderful summer to look forward to until something evil appears and turns their summer into something else. I loved the detailed information of the story and how the author weaves the story around you till it feels like you are experiencing what the boys and the town were going through. This is definitely a masterpiece and it has become a favorite for me. Will be putting this on my favorites shelf and will re-read it in the future. Five stars for this one!
After finishing this book, I definitely want to read more of his work soon.The story is a sort of coming-of-age tale centered around a group of children growing up together in a small town in the 60's.
It opens in an old school that has seen its last class for it's about to be closed down, and the children all coming together on different days to try and solve the mysteries of the town, the horrors which await them.
Simmons doesn't hold back the horrors of the death punch when delivering shocks for the book.
I read "A Winter Haunting" it is the sequel to this book.
The characters in this book are a group of friends when they are tweens.
In a Winter Haunting, (Dale), one of the boys, returns to this area as an adult.
The tweens must come up with an idea of how to rid the town of this horrible situation.
They all know going into this dangerous situation that their plan must succed in order to restore safety to the town, themselves and their loved ones.
Yes, it does take a while to start, and I think it's maybe a hundred or more pages into the book before something scary actually happens, but you can feel it building and that makes the horror somehow worse.The kids themselves were impeccably developed, each with their own personality and unique traits, as well as different family set-ups.
It's terrifying on so many levels, what these young boys are enduring.Simmons takes certain situations, which might be considered cliche, such as things hiding under your bed, a presence at your window, walking through a cemetery, and yet somehow seems to reinvent them in a way which makes you think twice about glancing out through your window in the dead of night.I cannot praise this book highly enough, definitely one of the best and scariest books I've ever read.
To me, SUMMER OF NIGHT is not only a modern horror classic, but it's also a brilliant coming-of-age story set in the 1960's. This offering from Simmons is simply one of the best books that I have ever read (3 times to date).
Considering how long ago I read this the first time around, I had forgotten most of the "little details" concerning this book. Still one of my favorites. :)
Of course nightmares might be expected because it's so scary but those might not be confined to the 11-year-olds, either.All the protagonists are 11 except for one who is younger and they are up against something ill-defined, sinister and extremely dangerous - but they don't know that when they decide to investigate the disappearance of a class-mate on the last day of school before the summer of 1960.
First of all, his choice of setting in small-town Illinois, 1960, is great because it solves most of the problem on its own; kids then ran rampant without supervision for entire days, went camping without adult accompaniment and went wherever they wanted that was within range of their bikes and energy.
Malo eksploatativno, znam - ali fuckas tu premisu kad je to zapravo nasiroko ispisana prica o malom gradicu, galeriji zivopisnih likova, traceva i familija koje se stvarno svim silama trude, ali ih bas nece.
O presucivanjima i generalnom nepovjerenju u odrasle koji ih svaki puta iznevjere, a (u ovom slucaju) podrsku primaju jedino od covjeka koji je potpuno unisten i sklon alkoholu iako ni on nije tu cijelo vrijeme jer i sam vodi bolne bitke.
Na par mjesta naletila sam na djecje likove koji izgovaraju ne bas sasvim uvjerljive receni, ali me radnja previse okupira pa mi nije toliko smetalo.
Oh no, not Tubby!  :)This book was excellent not so much in its horror (which was pretty horrific anyway), but in the way the town the characters live in is so complex and nostalgic. It has everything that one of those 20th century backwater small towns have and then some, and though this book is a horror novel it has its comedic moments and moments of true friendship as well. When Tubby Cooke, a local boy, goes missing, the main characters begin to unravel a sinister secret about their home th
:)This book was excellent not so much in its horror (which was pretty horrific anyway), but in the way the town the characters live in is so complex and nostalgic.
It has everything that one of those 20th century backwater small towns have and then some, and though this book is a horror novel it has its comedic moments and moments of true friendship as well.
When Tubby Cooke, a local boy, goes missing, the main characters begin to unravel a sinister secret about their home that scared me for weeks when I was a kid and I first read this book.
I'm not sure I would go as far as to say that Dan Simmons' Summer Of Night is a "must read" for all horror fiction fans.
I made it forty years before ever hearing about it.What I will say is that I find it almost criminal that this coming of age horror tale is so obscure.
I am thankful for the freinds I have on Goodreads for cluing me in on Simmons.The first one of his books I read was the astonishingly complex and brilliant Carrion Comfort, which is a "must read." This one should be read by anyone who enjoyed It, Boy's Life, Something Wicked This Way Comes and their ilk.
Summer of Night is like John Bellairs for adults in the best way.The kids in this novel!
Summer would arrive, and kids would leave their homes in the morning and spend the day exploring and playing until dark.
I grew up in the 80's, and I remember leaving the house in the morning during the summer and not returning home until it started to get dark.
Just like in a Bellairs novel an ancient evil has been awakened, and the kids are the only ones who know that something is horribly wrong in their town.
It's the tale of a group of young kids and the hellish summer they spend battling the forces of evil in the shape of horrendous monsters.
(hide spoiler)]I think it is interesting that you give me a book like this, about a ragtag group of 10- and 11-year olds fighting against unimaginable horrors with a grim intensity and I'm completely spellbound; give me a book about teenagers saving the world and my primary reaction is skepticism.
In the world of children, the kids are battling these forces of evil without adult help.
Stephen King book blurb says: "If Summer of the Night isn't the best horror novel of the last five years, it is surely one of the best three - a gorgeous and terrifying story of five boys who come face to face with a monstrous entity during an enchanted Illinois summer thirty years ago.
I have to believe there were many better horror novels around that time, including Stephen King's!
Another time he mentions that Lawrence usually wanted to hold his older brother's hand while falling asleep, but most of the time Dale told him no.
Characterization is wonderful and I have trouble remembering another book where 12-year old protagonists worked so well (the little brother is a mere 8 and he works too!) But it doesn't end there, the bullies, the girls, the scary adults and the parents and uncles (and not least grandmother Memo!) are greatly drawn too and this really enhances the experience.
And last, but not least, the Old Central itself (but here I got and advantage, since I went my first school years in a building that could easily have been a physical manifestation of this one - another experience enhancer I can tell you!) My favorite character is, however, the sister of the first boy taken, Cordie Cooke, a poor, gun-toting and strangely resourceful outsider girl who the boys have pinned as more or less certifiable.
And everything makes sense in the end.
But not, y'know, TOO much sense.
It's a damn good, creepy time.If I HAD a gripe, it would be that the 12-year-old stars of the story are a little too adult-like, but that's a drawback I'm willing to take in exchange for this batch of fully realized characters.
You don't often get that in a horror story.Simmons doesn't get nearly the attention he deserves as one of our greatest living writers, and that's a damn shame.
Even his misfires are so ambitious that they're worth our time, and when he writes a focused story like this one?
It's the end of 6th grade. Summer has just begun. You're 11 years old and don't have a care in the world with nothing but hot summer nights and adventures with your buddies to look forward to...unless you live in Elm Haven and you get to fight evil all summer. Death and destruction lurks around every corner for a small group of friends who have made some very serious enemies. If you loved Stephen King's IT, you'll love Summer of Night!!!
I love horror, but I often find myself disappointed when authors sacrifice good writing for shock tactics and plot twists; there is NONE of that with Simmons!
Simmons apparently forgetting that 11 is not an appropriate age to sexualise a girl (well, no age is if she's just going to be used as an object/plot device).
She was batshit crazy and fearless, and I was happy with her ending but did Simmons just forget about her for a third of the book?.Okay that wasn't as brief as I'd hoped BUT those things only hindered my enjoyment a bit!
3.5 звезди и ще се обоснова по-късно.Само искам да кажа - не го четете това тъпо "Въведение" към романа от самия автор.
За пръв път ми се случва заради подобно нещо да смъквам от оценка на книга.
То бива да си спойлнеш сам романа, да седнеш сам да обясняваш какво е искал да каже авторът (мерси, Данче, ама всички разбрахме какво си искал да кажеш, бая елементарничко си го написал), но и да мрънкаш кат дърт даскал (опа, изненада, той е бил баш това години наред) как едно време всичко е било прекрасно пък сега горките деца нямат детство...
Stephen King blurbs on the cover that he is in awe of Dan Simmons. I concur. Simmons resurrects all your childhood fears and confirms their validity. Their IS something under the bed, its pissed, and you have every reason to be very afraid.
'There was a great tearing at his legs, an irresistible force lifted him and turned him, pulled him towards the vortex he could feel through every fiber of his body, but for that split second, that briefest of instants, he was free-he could see the stars-and he lifted his face towards them even as he was spun away into the darkness roaring below and around him.' Summer of Night by Dan Simmons was a thoroughly brilliant read.
