https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/820624.Ever_After
I've just got to savor the memory of this story :)It's 1898 and Eden and Cabot, their son Bracken his sister Virginia and their cousin, the black sheep of the family Fritz, are the center of this branch of the Day/Sprague/Murray families.
Eden and Cabot are worried for their son Bracken who's exotic wife has left him for a man with a larger purse.
For her coming out, her brother Bracken and aunt Sue bring her to England to come out and be presented to Queen Victoria during her Diamond Jubilee.
Very light yet satisfying read. Loved the description of battle scenes during the spanish american war. I like how Thane moves inside the character's head and walks the reader through the angst and fear of facing death. And the bar has been set for the measure of a man. Bracken Murray is divine.
Not having a clue what the book was about, or who the author was, I just started reading.
What I found the most interesting and enjoyed the most was that the love stories were considered "scandalous" for their time, but in today's society, it's innocent.
The behaviors of courtship may be outdated, but the love is very much real.This novel is part of Elswyth Thane's Williamsburg series, however, it seems to be able to stand on it's own without one reading the other books.
I highly recommend reading it if you enjoy love stories.
The story picks up almost 30 years after the close of the civil war in 1865. Again, the Day and Sprague families are the focus as they struggle with their romantic lives and the social and economic forces that effect the choices that they make. New characters are introduced as well as the locale shifts from Williamsburg, to New York and to England. The Spanish-American War is the conflict that effects the great-great grandchildren of Julian Day and St. John Sprague. Highly recommend this book for fans of this series.
They are both reporters for Cabot Murray's newspaper, and the story follows their adventures and love lives as Bracken travels to England with his sister Virginia and cousin Sue (yay!
(Did someone say American Revolution?!!) There was also a long part around the middle when Bracken and Fitz were in Cuba where it got very military, and I'm not going to lie, that bored me.
So even though I didn't love it quite as much as the first two books, Ever After is still an amazing historical novel, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Bracken journeys to England with his aunt and sister, and while there sets eyes on fifteen-year-old Dinah, youngest daughter of the Earl of something or other (book's at home), and he knows she is the one he will love until he dies.
Bracken knows he's got to wait a couple of years before he can even speak for her..."Must go slowly.
Has she got uncles?
I really enjoyed this book a lot, especially getting to see more of the extended Sprague & Day families (oh sniff, Sue and Sedgewick).
There's so much unhappiness in the world we can do nothing about, and when the expenditure of a little thought or money does give somebody something pleasant to remember - I like to do it, that's all." - Bracken Murray"It was an era when most of the big newspapers reflected the personalities of the men who owned and edited them - magnetic, colorful, fearless personalities with the gift of words, who said what they chose and stood by it, and could make and unmake legislators and even Cabinets by the weight and passion of their opinions." "Murrays fought grimly, savagely, cool-headed and dangerous.
However, I did like that both the love interests (Dinah for Bracken and Gwen for Bracken’s cousin Fitz) were more independent-minded women than Thane had previously written as characters.
Ever After, by Elswyth Thane, is third in one of my favorite series. This series follows the Sprague and Day families from the American Revolution through WWII. In this book, the families make contact with England and the place that the Sprague family originally came from. These stories are filled with history , description of place and wonderful love stories. I am almost 60 years old, and first read these books more than 40 years ago. Every so often I reread them (in order) just for enjoyment!
I just love every one of these I have read. I also love talking about them to my 80 year old friend who is so exited to loan them to me and share. She says she as never loaned these books out before, because they are her favorites. She's had them since the 50's.
However, I highly recommend reading the series in order from the beginning.
Therefore, I have hidden the rest of this review.(view spoiler)[It is now the late 19th century, and the next generation takes the center stage as the Murray family goes to London for Virginia to take part in the Season, and be presented to Queen Victoria during her Jubilee.
There they encounter the neighboring family, the Campions, who play a major role in their future.Back in the US, Sedgwick's son, misfit Fitz, has been pursuaded to go to New York and work on Cabot Murray's newspaper.
But when the Spanish-American War breaks out, Fitz, misfit no longer, is quick to volunteer to accompany is cousin Bracken to Cuba to report on the conflict.
It's been a very long time since I read them, and while the story is still entertaining and engaging, some things really grated on me.
The family featured in the story didn't "own" slaves, but the attitude toward their black servants was very paternal.
The author completely ignores reconstruction, and there are a lot of men nearly thirty falling in love with women in their teens.
As a young teen reading these books from my grandmother's shelves, I wouldn't have noticed any of this.
As an adult, it's impossible to ignore, and definitely reduces my enjoyment.
This is one of my comfort books. Not all the books in the Williamsburg Saga are, but this one definitely is. And yes, I know that Elswyth Thane presents a rose-colored view of the late 19th century world in this book, but her characters are just so alive and so irresistible that I'm okay with a skewed perspective in this one.
Really enjoy this
Easily recognizable as a mid-20th century novel. The best description of the Spanish American War from the soldier's point of view that I have read.
The 3rd book in the Williamsburg Series by Elswyth Thane takes place during the Spanish American War, reuniting the three families who have been intertwined since Dawn's Early Light (Spragues, Days and Murray's). Another great read which could be read independently but makes much more sense reading them in order. There is much research history and details in all these books, all the more impressive when you realize that there was no "internet" in the 1940's and her research was done the old fashioned way. Again, highly recommend this third installment.
This is actually a very good book and I would have given it four stars if not for what I think is a dispensable session on the Spanish American War and Teddy Roosevelt's Rough Riders.
Again Gwen doesn't feel like she belongs in Fitz's very happy and filthy rich family.This plot weaving in and out of three romances is very diverting but when it diverted too far to the Spanish American War which was only necessary for The Star newspaper, I was strongly tempted to turn pages to get back to the main theme.
And because of the time period, one person might be called Lord Alwyn AND Edward, so in a cast of 10 or so people you might have 15+ names.
Very confusing, which breaks up the continuity of reading the book.What I really liked was the romantic stuff.
And there would be huge chunks of war material breaking up the romantic stuff.
I enjoyed the book and would definitely read another; I just hope that the war periods will be less detailed and take up quite a bit less of the book.
Number 3 in the Williamsburg series, Ever After tells the story of Eden Day Murray's children, Bracken and Virginia.
We also meet their cousin, Fitz Sprague, who starts as a cub reporter with Cabot Murray's newspaper, and comes into his own during the Spanish-American War and the charge up San Juan hill.
We also meet the fourth and final significant family who meet and marry into the Day/Sprague/Murray families.
Once again, Ms Thane shines the spot light on the women of the various families, Virginia Murray, Gwen who marries Fitz, and Dinah Campion.
12/2012 ** I can see why I keep coming back to this historical fiction series that was first published nearly 60 years ago. In this one, I was struck by the personification of a dispatch boat. She seemed to have such personality and devotion to the war correspondent she worked with. As with other books in this series that I've been re-reading this month though read for the first time about 30 years ago, this was my first acquaintance with the Spanish-American war.It's always fun to see romance, wealth, princesses, and get a little history lesson at the same time.
One of my favorites of the Williamsburg novels. in it Bracken falls for innocent Dinah Campion, and she seems to return his affection, but alas, he is still married to the faithless Lisl, who does not really love him, but will not let him go. Finally, after her death, it looks like Bracken and Dinah can finally be together, but the Spanish-American war intervenes. The more promising romance of Virginia and Archie provides a neat counterpoint to the star-crossed relationship of Bracken and Dinah.
I hate the summary that's currently on this book because it makes it sounds so trite. This is a great peice of historical fiction. I read this book when I was much younger and was re-reading it this weekend and enjoying the story lines, the characters, the family and relationships. And then there is, of course, the history. These books are interesting, romantic, and sweet without being all about the romance and becoming super fluffy.
Another great, fun to read historical fiction from the Williamsburg Series by Elswyth Thane. This book about forbidden love is set in Williamsburg, England, and Cuba during the Spanish/American war. Bracken loves much-too-young Dinah of England, Fritz loves a singer and entertainer, Sue and Sedgewick love each other, but their love will never be and our hearts break with them.
I LOVED Elswyth Thane's books! So good! I think that this one was one that I especially loved, but would have to go back and look at them again to be sure. Excellent historic fiction that just makes you want to read every single one of her books!
Very good!
Loved this 3rd book continuing the lives of the Spragues and the Murrays and seeing the first move over to England and Europe during the early part of the 20th century.
This wasn't as good as the first two. There was a slow part in the middle, but it was still pretty good. A must to get to the next ones in the series.
The third book in the Williamsburg series takes the Virginia and New York members of the family to England, where the ancestral home is. We meet the English side and meet new friends.
Descendants of Day's family as war correspondents inEngland and America in the 1890's during the Spanish American War. (Working from a list of books I read years ago.)
The history is good. Hard to believe that a twenty seven year old man would become enamored with a fifteen year old girl. But it makes good reading.
My Williamsburg novels are in storage. I loved them all.
