https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1044575.Book_of_the_Hopi
I read this as a teenager, and the world view of the Hopi's affected me deeply enough at the time to consider running away from home. It was probably one of the major catalyst's to me to think about other cultures in a way that wasn't presented to us in the western world at the time via the media. (which was typically racist and demeaning).
Holy cow this book is fascinating.
The Hopi have such interesting legends like how the earth was destroyed three times.
Also their creation story is pretty cool.
But some of the things I loved the most were how they say that the creator had to destroy the earth because people would get really selfish and also they would start misusing their "powers of creation".
Also their god led them to their land that they have now because is kind of harsh and not too easy to live on so they wont become lazy and selfish.
A classic title dealing with native American religion. I've worked my way through it two or three times over the years. Don't know why it wasn't on my list of books read.An amazing read -- one to be savored and thought about rather than sped through.
true and sad account of what magnificent culture is lost forever. the Hopi, the first Americans.
Fascinating research on Hopi belief, history, and tradition.
I now feel more informed and sensitive to Native Americans living in the US and for that I am grateful.For the most part the book is at a good level for a reader with no existing knowledge of the Hopi, but at times I felt like it lacked explanation for some of the terms used.
I also felt that the chapter about the ceremonies and dances was too detailed for my interest level; I skipped this chapter.
However, I did learn a lot from the chapters devoted to explaining the creation myths, clans, and recent history, especially in relation to the US.
It is easy to get lost in the detailed descriptions of the overwhelming number of symbols and spirits that form the basis of the Hopi culture that Frank Waters lays out. It is a monumental effort and much too rich to read in a month or two. In my opinion this research takes more of a life long commitment to read and understand. This is my second time through the book and it is just as fascinating as my previous effort. A very complex culture indeed.
This book is a long account of the history of the Hopi. I thought it was pretty boring and hard to read. not a fun book at all.
The detail of the Hopi migrations, the explanations of the worlds destroyed by fire, ice, and then water, are fascinating in what they reveal.
But is also much more than a history (though that was, for me, the most fascinating part): it is an explanation of Hopi ceremonies and dances.
I was left feeling saddened and hopeful after reading this book: saddened (once again) about the treatment of all of the people that the Europeans found here, but also hopeful that the Hopi revelations tell of a path to the next world that we all may find.
However, there were also some head-scratching moments (e.g., unjustifiably moving from theorizing about the Mesa Verde 'Spruce Tree House' in one part to referring to this theory as fact in another part, and some of the period-specific references to 'WWIII').I also really appreciated the structure of the text.
I found the choice to start with their origin story, then explore their legends, before moving on to the ceremonial structure of their year, all before any kind of discussion of their 'history' in the academic sense of the word, to be a distinctive, sensitive, and very effective way of learning about the Hopi.
This despite the fact that, for large portions of the ceremonial catalogue, I admit to reading only very lightly.
And so begins Frank Waters' book of the Hopi.Fully a third of the book is dedicated to telling the lore of this tribe, and through the saga you learn of a tradition that explains why this small group of people have been living in the same area for a millenia.
As Waters moves to discussing recorded history and the shameful exploitation of a people by the American Government, you discover how unique and special it is that they are still there.
Though Waters' book you'll gain an understanding of how these principled people have continued in this area as they have for centuries.
And so begins Frank Waters' book of the Hopi.Fully a third of the book is dedicated to telling the lore of this tribe, and through the saga you learn of a tradition that explains why this small group of people have been living in the same area for a millenia.
As Waters moves to discussing recorded history and the shameful exploitation of a people by the American Government, you discover how unique and special it is that they are still there.
Though Waters' book you'll gain an understanding of how these principled people have continued in this area as they have for centuries.
As a document of the spiritual beliefs, history and prophecies of the Hopi people, this book is very important. However, much of it is very confusing and barely readable; it took me several years to get through it. The last few chapters about the history and the prophesies are interesting, and those I recommend.
It was fascinating to read about the culture and history of a people who have lived in North America long before Europeans came on the scene.
This book brought to light the uniqueness that one particular tribe has as it described the politics between the Hopis and the other surrounding Pueblos & Navajo people.
The Hopis, unlike many other tribes held fast to their pacifist beliefs even at the cost of seeing their culture become slowly encroached upon by people who did not understand or respect them.
I haven't finished the book but read most of it 3 or so years ago.
I was living near the four corners area so the landscape of the surrounding environs I knew were pointedly relevant.I'm not sure what else to say but I've encountered a lot of people it would seem who are resistant to the idea that there was anything special about our native brethren.
The cosmology might seem 'primitive'--but many of the ideas I encountered in the text struck me as on a level more profound than might appear to the casual observer.I am grateful this book was written.
Based on a friend's recommendation.My problem with the book (it's an OK read) is that it's a period book of the 1960s without trying to be.
It has some decent recommendations about their relation with the neighboring Navajo (seen in a more nomadic less positive life and a little arrogant (they might say the same about the Hopi)).
The photos were taken before the extensive photo-prohibition (can't say that I blame them).I will reread and annotate this book a 2nd time, because said friend was really into their view of time (compared to Piaget).
I have sympathy, but it needs an update.Must now read the Book of the Navajo which I also picked up in Sedona.
This book describes a vague depiction of what life may be like as a Hopi.
The traditions described are kept for secret due to the nature of their meaning meant for someone of spiritual value in order to understand it's context.
Most of what Frank Waters has described in his dialogue about the Hopi's are far from what the REAL meaning behind such rituals and acts regarding the way of the Hopi.
Waters thinks he knows, but he has no idea what he is talking about.
This book was pretty okay.
The definate strong point was the first section - the retelling, and possible first written version, of the Hopi creation myth.
Other scattered myths throughout the book were also equally valuable for me.
At the outset, Waters makes the assertation that he is compiling the "Hopi Bible" which this book definately fails to be.
An adequite intro to the history, mythology, and ritual of the Hopi?
Sure.
Biblical in any way?
Definately not.
Still, not a bad read.
However, as one interested in Hopi prophecy, I'd be lying if I didn't express that I hold higher hopes for Mails' "Hopi Survival Kit."
Utterly fascinating book. I knew virtually nothing about the Hopi Indians before I read this, and I was amazed to learn about the rich spiritualism of Hopi ceremonies, beliefs, and world view that are described and explained here. I don't think the word "primitive" applies at all. Reading this book is just not enlightening, either. It's thought provoking, and I might even say transformative. Hopi traditional culture, as I learned, is mostly a peaceful one, rather unlike the rational, materialistic culture in which most of us live.
I read this book to cap off all I've learned about the Ancestral Pueblo Native Americans. The Hopi are thought to be their descendants. The book takes you inside the Kiva to observe a bewildering array of ceremonies, rites and performances. The religion is complex and focused on natural events, not the least of which is rain. It also provides a backdrop of the Hopi's own creation story, flood story and ancient migrations and the formation of the many different clans. Clan symbols are often left in the petroglyphs and pictographs on the canyon walls.
I loved the first half of the book as it was more about the background and story telling of how the Hopi came to be. The rest of the book was still interesting but a little drier as it was more history book style writing. This section was still as intriguing and offered great insight to Hopi religion, symbols, tribe dynamics and more. Since I love learning about people's history, culture and just history itself, I loved this book.
I misplaced the book, but I just found it again. Its cool, its like a bible of the Hopi religion and religious history. It was written by a man who lived with the Hopi for decades, and is supposidly written in their words (translated of course). Its nicely meditative, as well as interestinf in the fact that you see similarities between their religious stories and Chrstian ones.
Abstract rituals and detailed stories of the clans. Stories passed down through generations. Though difficult at times, I was surprised on how fluidly I moved through this book. By the end, I found myself with a new lens in which to view the world, a lens that makes quite a bit of sense. Welcome to the forth world. Hopefully we do it right this time.
I use this book as a reference to the Hopi. My writings possess a few Native characters and customs, which intertwine with Hopi beliefs. Franks Waters 'Book of The Hopi' is always an arms reach away when I am writing. He provides just the right amount of information and knowledge about a vast array of pertinent Hopi beliefs, customs, and history.
I'm fascinated with the cultures of the southwest and this book is the authority on all things Hopi. I really appreciated it, but it was a bit long at times going into great detail about ceremonies and names. So much so that I did not actually finish it. I enjoyed what I read and got my Hopi "fill".
I got about halfway through this book after trying for about a year. I am fascinated with the history of the Hopi people and loved the fact that it was the voice of the elders rather than the anthropologist but it's taken me 5 months to get halfway through it so I'm quitting. It's too dense and too much new detailed information to someone who is just learning.
The mythology and ceremonies of the Hopi are very interesting, but I find the presentation rather scholarly (i.e., dry). Interesting to compare the author's attitude toward the Navajo with Locke's attitude toward the Hopi in "The Book of the Navajo".
Although I only gave this book 4 stars it probably did deserve 5. Frank did our nation a huge favor in his documentation of the Hopi history and ceremonies. Along with H.R. Voth and Mischa Titev there are only a handful of other authors who's works even compare. I loved this book.
does a really good job at explaining their spiritual cosmology, which is why i wanted to read it.
Great worldview from a great people. Considered the Hopi Bible. 30 elders account for their peoples history. Compiled in '63
A classic work.
