https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79549.Finn_Family_Moomintroll
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. A charming return to the land of Moomin Valley, in which Moomintroll and his friends discover a Hobgoblin's magical top hat. Delightful mayhem ensues.
This book is the reason I learned to read.My mother read it aloud to me once and then refused to read it again. In fact, she washed her hands of the whole series on the grounds that it was "creepy". I was forced - forced! - to teach myself to read, if I wanted any more Moomins, ever. I got my revenge, however: I read this book out loud to HER while she was working in the kitchen and couldn't get away.
There isn't a stamp, or an error that I haven't collected.
However, by accident we discovered that one can collect the same stamp twice, and be a happy Hemul.
To put it in a less Moominish way: we all of a sudden discovered we wanted to reread our collection of Moomins.
And what a strange experience it is to read aloud to three teenagers who suddenly understand all the character traits of the inhabitants of Moomin Valley.
When we started comparing and contrasting with whom we identified most, I added some valuable memory stamps to my rich collection of "reading with my children".
I liked, but didn't love Comet in Moominland.
Finn Family Moomintroll though really captures the same wonderfulness that the Moomin comic strips do.
This book is a bit more episodic than Comet, but it feels more cohesive.
Maybe the Moomintroll is best when he isn't on long adventures with his friends, short adventures serve them nicely when they can return home to rest and enjoy the simple pleasures of Moominvalley.
If I had kids I would read this to them, if they didn't like it, I'd drive them to the mall and leave them there and realize I'm better off without such shitty kids.
And considering how much I personally have always and repeatedly enjoyed the 1970s German translations of precisely this same book (and others of the Moomintroll series), I do absolutely believe that it is mores than likely Elizabeth Porch's to and for me rather mediocre translation that has caused this rather annoying sense of disconnection and being on the outside looking in (and yes, at times even tedious boredom, something that I certainly NEVER once experienced with Vivica and Kurt Bandler's always engaging and adventuresome renditions of Jansson's original Swedish).
I apologize to the author because there were glimmers and glimpses throughout the book of a book I’d have found great, including a few choice lines that I appreciated greatly.Thanks to all the members of the Children's Books group who kept me motived to continue reading by explaining why they loved this book/series in this thread: http://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/3..., and who also gave some specific information helpful to enjoying the story, including a link to a character list.
I guess I am fiscally conservative but liberal in most other things. You want to marry the same gender; you should. It’s none of my damn business as you are both consenting adults. Your womb is none of my damn business. You want to change gender, go right ahead – none of my damn business. And incidentally, you can reverse that. I blame Moomins for this. I just realized this. When my family went to Sweden when I was in third or fourth grade, I was given copies of Jansson’s children books and real
It’s none of my damn business as you are both consenting adults.
Your womb is none of my damn business.
You want to change gender, go right ahead – none of my damn business.
When my family went to Sweden when I was in third or fourth grade, I was given copies of Jansson’s children books and really, really read them.
Seriously, I know this because I just re-read the first one, and you can tell it was well loved.
I re-read Finn Family Moomintroll after reading a collection of Jansson’s short stories.
But that’s the Moomins for you – love, togetherness, and adventure!
While I enjoyed Finn Family Moomintroll, it was not nearly as delightful as Comet in Moominland. When Moomintroll and the tramp Snufkin discover a stovepipe hat, they unwittingly bring home what turns out to be a Hobgoblin’s Hat. The hat wreaks all sorts of havoc until Moominmamma wisely hits on a solution. Neither as witty or as funny as Comet in Moominland,  Finn Family Moomintroll does introduce the odd little Thingumy and Bob, who have some very unusual ideas about stealing.
The illustrations are adorable, and the names of the characters fun to say---the Snork, Hattifatteners, Thingumy and Bob--and in Finn Family Moomintroll, each of the chapters tells of a self-standing episode, although they are linked by the device of the Hobgoblin's hat.If you've never read the Moomin books before, you may be wondering exactly what a Moomin is.
Though I never found him as cute as the Moomins---he always looked to me like a scarecrow, only wearing a smock---Snufkin was probably the character I identified with the most as a child, specifically because he was balanced the joy of spending time with friends and the peace of being alone.
Ten stars!
Made me travel back to my childhood, what a warm feeling, I used to watch it as a cartoon called وادي أمان and what a terrific world...
საბავშვო წიგნები>სადიდო წიგნები
"You know", said Moomintroll seriously, "it's the first time we have done anything that we can't tell mother and father about." And indeed, even though their motivation for wanting the hat back is the fun that the hat has given them, they have done the right thing and discovered that parents, as much as one loves them, are not infallible.
There is a sadder lesson at the end of the book, when as Autumn begins to arrive, Snufkin decides to leave his friends and wander South: sometimes we have to say goodbye to the people we love the most.
The troll toy craze first arrived in the UK around 1962.
I was 7 and I begged for one of these little dolls.
I must have really wanted it as I never asked my parents for anything.
How I treasured that toy.
I did not encounter Moomintroll and friends however until a year or two later and did not really associate the two in my mind.
My toy was a troll...
All visitors were welcome no matter how eccentric and Moomintroll could go off n adventures whenever he fancied.
Sadly troll has come to mean a very different kind of animal now.
I loved the Moomins so much as a kid.
I don't remember reading them, actually -- surprisingly, no sense of location or of my fingers on the pages comes back to me, though usually I'll remember where I read books and whether my edition was new or old, and the smell of the pages...
In any case, I do remember that I loved the Moomins, and it was lovely to curl up and reread now I'm older, and wiser, and really not feeling well.I do love the range of characters, all with different customs and such, that just happily get along.
And I love everyone's consideration of everyone else's different needs.
Perfection. The characters, the scenes, the language. Everything.
Read this one when I was seven...At the time, I didn't understand the concept of "Never judge a book by its cover" (and boy am I glad, as this book's just as good, if not better than it's awesome, mind-candy cover) and at first, I picked this one up solely based on the colorful illustrations on the jacket.
It's still a favorite of mine and reminds me of the absolute wonder of being a kid.
This book rocks my world.
What a little freakin' treasure chest of glory the Moomintrolls are!Snufkin is a role model.
„Samotność jest czasem potrzebna.”Moja opinia: Muminki to Muminki. Wiadomo, że zawsze będę je kochała i nigdy nie będę zbyt stara na zapoznanie się z ich historią. Uwielbiam Włóczykija. Uwielbiam Małą Mi. Uwielbiam uroczy domek i przygody, jakie przeżywają. Sama chętnie polatałabym na chmurce. Moja ocena: ★★★★★★★★★★
My favorite sentence from this profound & creative book is: "Moomintroll's mother and father always welcomed all their friends in the same quiet way, just adding another bed and putting another leaf in the dining-room table." There is exploration, adventure, personal growth, comfort, family & home all cleverly done with wit & wisdom.
ALKSDJFLSKJDFLJ I JUST LOVE THESE BOOKS SO MUCH. ^___^ *huggles book forever and a day* I think this one might actually be my favorite overall! (Though parts of Moominsummer Madness are still my favorites too.) So cute and fun and amusing and whimsical. UGH I LOVE SNUFKIN AND ALL OF THEMMM. <3 JUST. AWK. I CAN'T EVEN. I JUST LOVETH IT. ^_^ <33333
These books fill me with awe and happiness, and just the right amount of melancholia.And the pictures make me think of something holy and ineffable, much like William Blake's illuminated manuscripts.If it wasn't for the Moomin books I'd be a poorer and more miserable person.
Our first experience with the Moomins, and we are utterly charmed!
A lugares donde yo no estoy, contestó el Snusmumrik."Precioso libro infantil que nos lleva a otras épocas, donde la inocencia y los valores sencillos se valoraban más.Un mundo imaginario de seres educados, encantadores, que disfrutan de todas las pequeñas cosas de la vida, donde se valoran más los sentimientos que las pertenencias y la vida en comunidad y la autogestión es lo más importante.
Donde todo el mundo es bienvenido a ese pequeño y precioso caos anárquico que es el valle de los Mumins.Una auténtica joya para niños escrita en una época terrible, los años 40, y que apelaba a la solidaridad , la paz y la igualdad.
اعادتني هذه القصه الى ذكريات الطفولهشعرت وانا اقرائها انني ارى احداث الكرتون "وادي الامان" عشت من جديد مع مومين ترول مغامراته مع اصدقائهوماما مومين التي لا تتحرك دون حقيبتها السوداء كأنها جزء من جسدهاوكل ابطال القصهرغم انها موجهه لاطفال لكنني استمتعت وانا اقراءها
But, when it's found again—actually someone nabbed it because the inside pockets made a nice snug place to sleep—the joy is so great that they have a giant party for the whole of Moomin Valley.I dunno, I rather like the idea of taking joy in life and in gathering up strange waifs to add to one's family (obviously, the Moomins wouldn't have a problem taking in refugees, unlike some folks we could mention).
My spouse found the first book in this series that I checked out to be just too bland for her liking, so she wouldn't read this, the second one I checked out.
She did, however, return both Moomin books to the library for me, bless her heart.I have a feeling, whatever my spouse might think, that I'm not done with the Moomins.
I really, really liked this.
It's like an odd cross between Wind in the Willows and Dr. Seuss.
There are shallow characters, kind characters, vain characters, selfless characters, and characters with questionable morals all wrapped up in this funny little family who will accept anyone who seems to need a family.
It sort of wanders about telling bits of tales that make up a lovely summer in the Valley of the Moomins.
There's never any real sense of alarm, even when the Groke shows up, because everyone can be reasoned with or, at the very least least, bought.
It's adorable.
I love it.
I read this for a class in college and it is still just as enjoyable as it was then. Though the Moomins are akin to Mickey Mouse in their fame across the sea, reading it always reminds me of Winnie the Pooh (not the books - I haven't read them yet), with little related yet unrelated adventures full of fun and cute, distinctive characters, which don't have to be viewed/read in any particular order to be understood and enjoyed.
This is what comes of putting on strange hats you find. Just buy yourself a good hat and stick to it, that's what you need to do. If more people took the liberty to have their own every-day hats these sorts of things wouldn't be happening left and right. What if it wasn't just a hobgoblin it had belonged to and it had been a banshee or evil spirit of some sort?
I loved this book! I thought it was utterly charming and so delightful, and all the adventures of the Moomins and their friends are just so much fun. I loved the writing, and the pictures are cute, as well. Most of this book takes place in the summer, so it was a great seasonal read for me, too.
Very slipstream. Deep and dark yet filled with kindness.
