https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7894.Betsy_and_Tacy_Go_Over_the_Big_Hill
This was so sweet and we really enjoyed the part of the story including the Syrian immigrants. Ironically, very relevant topic today. HIGHLY recommend.
This book begins with Tacy, Tib and finally Betsy (on April 25) turning 10: the double-digit birthday that is a turning point in every childhood.
One of the (many) reasons that I love the Betsy-Tacy books is that they depict the world of small-town Minnesota so beautifully, and yet also give the reader surprising glimpses and insights into the wider world.
When the girls stand up against the bullies who are bothering their new friend Naifi, Tib's dress gets torn.
I was enchanted by the Betsy-Tacy books when I was a little girl growing up in the 1970s, and I'm delighted to discover that they still retain their charm.
Well, this one is a weird mix of American patriotism, pro-immigration stances and your first celebrity crush. Didactic is really the word for it, especially when you get sentences like: 'Katie recited the Gettysburg Address. She despised reciting but was too patriotic to refuse.' But there's a lovely, idyllic feel to these books, which I'm beginning to appreciate, and Betsy, Tacy and Tib are rather identifiable, which I suppose is what Maud Hart Lovelace wants.The title is also misleading, but I blame the publisher for that.
I always refer to my own father as "practically perfect" because he's not Bob Ray. I love this book almost as much as I love Bob Ray. Everyone's personality is here, foreshadowing so much (just like Tib!) though this time through I did wonder when Dave's mom got her hearing back.
12/2009 This story finds Betsy, Tacy and Tib at ten years old.
Another lovely chapter in the Betsy-Tacy story.
It was later changed to Betsy and Tacy Go Over the Big Hill help people associate it with the series.
Betsy and Tacy Go Over the Big Hill is the third book in the timeless Betsy-Tacy-Tib series.
The second big moment for the girls is they develop their very first crush on the newly annointed King of Spain named Alphonso.
The tone of Betsy and Tacy Go Over the Big Hill is slightly more somber yet realistic than the previous two books since it briefly touches on prejudice and unrequited first love.The Betsy-Tacy books were highly autobiographical and Lovelace perfectly captures the innocence and magic of childhood.
If you read this book and love it, please read the series.
She gets the experience of being a child exactly right and doesn't talk down at all to kids, which I really appreciate.I really loved the American immigrant sub-plot in this book, and the book ends with a 4th of July event, and I finished reading it on 7/3 so that was fun.This edition has some wonderful childhood photos of Maud and her friends, family, neighbors, and notes so that the reader can see how much these books are based on Maud’s life.How on earth did I not read all of these books when I was young?!
I’m always kidding my friends what deprived childhoods they had because they missed reading some of my favorite children’s books, but now I feel I’m the deprived one to have missed reading these books.
I read the Betsy and Tacy books for the joy of it, and this one does not disappoint.
The series is plainly not about people frozen in time.
I mean, the period stays the same, but, as in really good books, the people change.
Here, our heroines turn ten years old --- an important age that they've been anticipating since the last book.
They become more self-conscious in that they begin to think independently about how they should behave at their "advanced age".
The weakness of this book is the sub-story of the Syrian town and its people.
Now that I know the story is semi-autobiographical, I understand why the books in this series seem so real.Here's an example of a paragraph that put a smile on my face:"The sooner we don't see them the better, I think," said Betsy gloomily.
"Gee whiz!" she added.
Betsy very seldom said "Gee whiz!" She was too religious.
But it was all she could think of to express her feelings now.("Them" being their older sisters.)The closing sentences reflect the upbeat tone of the books:[Betsy and Tacy and Tib] soon stopped being ten years old.
Re-read for VSC discussion. "Tacy loved to say 'indeed.'"09-23-2011:Here's a quote from the sentimental Mrs. Kelly that I had never noticed before:"Mrs. Kelly did not seem to notice the grown-upness. She took Betsy's round red cheeks in her hands and said, 'It's five years today that you and Tacy have been friends.'"I love Mrs. Kelly. Love that she saves Tacy's shorn curl in a candy box and that she remarks on the longevity of B&T's friendship. Re-read for the VSC discussion.
The third book is this cute series. It was fun to ready about the innocence of an era gone by.
This year Betsy, Tacey, and Tib have two numbers in their age, and they go farther up the Big Hill than ever before.
Imagine my surprise when what what is over the hill is the neighborhood of Little Syria.
And my further surprise when Little Syria and its Syrian immigrants end up being a major story line.
I love that they fight on behalf of an immigrant girl being teased.
I love that they all go to different churches.Still such a lovely and timely story.Now that I know it's 1902, I wish we'd had a bit about turn-of-the-century celebrations in a previous book.
I imagine it must have been quite exciting.
Re-reading the series with Birdy.
Book 3 of the highly recommended and soothingly warm-hearted Besty-Tacy juvenile classic series by Maud Hart Lovelace (April 25, 1892 - March 11, 1980) is a book closely based on the author's own life as a 9-10 year old growing up in small town Minnesota in 1902.
Who wouldn't want friends like that?I loved the Harper Trophy 2000 paperback edition with its illustrations by Lois Lenski, its foreword by the children's literature icon Judy Blume and, after the story, the two sections with photos and prose titled "Maud Hart Lovelace and Her World" and "About BETSY AND TACY GO OVER THE BIG HILL." Don't miss the photo of Maud's friend Midge Gerlach, the author's model for Tib, posing sweetly in her accordion-pleated dress.The series follows Betsy from her early childhood years through her young adulthood.
I read it a over a week ago and I've been   really busy so I kind have a lot to remember for reviewing.This book was just as childish (in a good way) as the first, but with more complex and mature struggles, ideas, and resolutions than the first books.
I thought that Betsy, Tacy, and Tib really grew up in this story, they now had a desire for power, love, importance, and beauty.
Then there was the whole "King of Spain-oh, I think I'm in love with him" thing.
I really loved reading this book in particular.
It was bittersweet to watch the girls grow up and begin to try and understand bigger things and adventures beyond the safety of Hill Street.
Book 3 of the Betsy and Tacy series, and Maud Hart Lovelace continues to impress.
MHL waves the American flag as much as LIW does, but the overall feel is one of "America the Beautiful", not "Battle Hymn of the Republic.
I suspect I'd have liked the heck out of MHL if I'd had the privilege to meet her.As with the first two books of the series, Lois Lenski's beautiful drawings combined with MHL's knack for remembering and describing events from her childhood in Mankato, MN make the third installment of Betsy and Tacy worth the effort.
(2016): The third Betsy/Tacy/Tib book had a good portion of the plot about the Syrian refugees who lived in Minnesota...
America is made up of foreign people." And after the Syrians showed their pride in living in America: "Julia said soberly, 'They think a lot of being Americans, don't they?' 'They certainly do,' Katie answered.
'Boys like Sam ought to know more about them,' said Tib. Tib sometimes said very sensible things."  I think a good portion of modern America should read these sweet, true words written last century for children.(2017): This is the first of the series that has a continuous plot throughout the whole book, instead of loosely-connected stories from chapter to chapter.
I didn't read this Betsy-Tacy book till I moved to California and had a renewed interest in the life of Maud Hart Lovelace after finding the friendship bench in Claremont.
Rather then being a series of vignettes, as most of her books are, it tells a lovely concise story about the Syrian refugee camp that the girls visit.
And what they find there is what one finds at any Minnesota refugee camp: pure good hearted Christians who take Betsy, Tacy and Tib into their care, teach them about hookahs and figs and goats and Arabic, and all other good things that come from Syria.

Still 5 stars. It’s especially fun, as an adult, to see BT&T’s world growing bigger as they meet people from a different culture, confront bigotry, and travel to the edges—and beyond—of the Hill Street neighborhood. I especially loved meeting all the neighbors. Now, I’m looking forward to Sallie’s questions!
Again, an excellent installment of this series. This one deserves particular recognition for a very well done approach to diversity and cultural understanding.
http://libraryhospital.blogspot.com/2...Read many times. Last read 4/11/09. Re-read aloud to eldest 8/16/15
Re-read October 2016.
This was the cutest one so far!
This one is strangely relevant today, with it's emphasis on immigrants and what it means to be an American, whether an "old" or "new" American.Betsy, Tacy, Tib, Julia, and Katie come across a group of boys, led by a particularly mean boy named Sam, bullying an immigrant girl.
All of the girls go home with Tib to explain to her mother about the dress.
After spending some time at Naifi's house and hearing her family speak of how proud they are to be new Americans, the girls walk up the hill toward home in thoughtful silence.
Well, the books I've been trying to read were so awful, I took up the third in the Betsy-Tacy series.
Now, Betsy, Tacy, and Tib are 10.
Anyway, Betsy, Tacy, and Tib fall in love with the young king of Spain and decide one of them should be queen.
Somewhere along the way, Betsy, Tacy, and Tib make friends with a little girl in Syria Town, Naifi.
I hope soon to find something more adult that is worth reading, but if I keep coming up with crap, I'll gladly revisit Betsy, Tacy, and Tib in their next adventure, during which they'll be 12.
These books remind me so much of books I loved as a kid; Elsie Dinsmore, Anne of Green Gables, The Bobbsey Twins, The Happy Holisters, the old style Nancy Drew, and the classic version Boxcar Children, which makes me regret I didn't find this trio of girls at an earlier time, but I'm still enjoying them now!
Even more, I love what these girls represent in this book, they make friends with a girl who just came to the U.S. and when she is bullied they stand up for her; then, after a gentle reminder, they revel in being Americans and are actually proud of their country.
The Betsy-Tacy stories are timeless.
The series starts when Betsy invites Tacy to her 5th birthday party.
I love how even though they lived in a very different time period for women, the characters are encouraged to develop serious passions and interests that they eventually pursue professionally.
Betsy was always writing stories and received a lot of encouragement for her skill and imagination.
Tacy is a bit more traditional, but is also a talented singer.
One of my favorites from the series is "Betsy and the Great World".
Betsy goes to Europe because her father thinks it would be a great experience for a writer.
I love these books.
I really don't understand why people would dismiss them as "old-fashioned." The girls deal with really basic things and things that have remained true for the decades since Lovelace wrote them.
The girls deal with make-believe vs.
reality, siblings, and growing up.
The girls deal with recognizing prejudices and bullying.
The girls learn about immigrants' experiences.
It is simplistic, of course, and not all situations are so simple.
However, I think for the target audience, it is good.I love the way Lovelace writes about the characters.
It's so matter of fact: "Everyone listened to Katie- even the big boys."
This was a surprising addition to the Betsy-Tacy series for me. A central part of the story is the influx of Syrian refugees into the quiet town of Mankato MN in the early 1900s. Published in 1942, the novel describes the segregation, racism, tolerance, and acceptance experienced by these new American immigrants. Although the story is told through the eyes of ten year olds and is meant for children, it resonated with me as an adult facing similar issues decades later. It is wonderful when a story lasts in this way through time.
This was a cute little book! I enjoyed it! I don't think it was my favorite out of the series though... ;)I did feel like Betsy, Tacy, and Tib were younger than 10 though, is that just me? It was still a funny book!! :)(view spoiler)[And when they fell in love with the king!!! HAHAHAHA XD (hide spoiler)]I'm liking that they're getting older, can't wait for the next book! :DI rate it 4 stars!I'm now I'm happy because this was a quick read and helps me get more books read towards my goal which I am horribly behind on :P
