https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32423.Watchers
I haven't read Dean Koontz in years. I don't think I've missed much after reading this one though. BUT some of my other buddy readers think differently. They are wrong.Dean Koontz can't even wash his panties in the same room with Stephen King. Now that I've put that image in your head, I'll ramble some about the book. You have this lab who had been creating super smart critters to fight. They never really tell how so don't be getting your sciency on for this one. There is a hit man who is offing
I haven't read Dean Koontz in years.
The lab has 'sired' a super smart dog and that other thing.
Then enter the guy character.
The Outsider and the Dog, Einstein.
I do think Einstein should have been a chihuahua though.
(Blatant promotion of my own dogs coming here)Faking sleep when tries to be made to go outside and pee in the rain: Smart!
Being Spider-Dog to try and jump in mom's plate of food: Smart!
Not really smart but you can't win them all.
I wish he had ate perfect Nora and the guy and went on to make sciency babies with the dog, while they watched Mickey Mouse videos.
Even the array of stereotypical characters here felt old-fashioned-- ex soldier hero, abused beautiful damsel, cold-blooded psychopath, and a super precocious dog.
Watchers is about Travis (ex-soldier), Nora (damsel), Vince Nasco (hitman) and Einstein (the dog).
And I like dogs as much as anybody but Koontz's dog love is a little weird, I gotta say.
What's with having a "talking" dog as a main character, anyway?Watchers is always the Koontz book that seems to get mentioned, but I'll try another if anyone has any better recommendations.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Somehow I’ve managed to live over five and a half dog years without ever reading a Dean Koontz novel. However, when I was presented with the opportunity to do a buddy read with . . .  I jumped at the chance. What do I have to say now that I’m finished????? I mean LOTS better because I really had a pretty horrible time while reading this one. In case you too have spent decades ignoring Koontz, here’s the lowdown of what Watchers is abou
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Somehow I’ve managed to live over five and a half dog years without ever reading a Dean Koontz novel.
Nora can pretty much only drone on and on and on and on about how difficult things were for her while Travis tells her how much she is smart, she is kind and she is important.
Like so much that I’m pretty sure he’s one of the people all the right-wing nutters were thinking about wanting to marry his pet when they were trying to keep gay marriage illegal.
That's fine, though, because Kells's and Shelbs's brains have been rotted by reading too much porn, and we all know that Dan 2.0 suffers from Ridiculous Disease, a disease that confuses fiction with real life and makes its sufferers believe that insane shit cannot happen in or around make-believe stories, unless that fiction is Harry Potter, who obviously gets a pass because wizards are the shit, yo.I like each of the people listed above, even if they read almost everything wrong, because opinions are like Cheetos.
And Watchers is the book that started it all.For those of you who do not know, the film version of Watchers was the first successful Koontz adaptation.
I don’t even care about all the things wrong with this book, I love it, I’m going to 5* it, and I’ll internet fight with anyone who wants to question it.
Very overrated...I had high expectations for the book, because of the almost universal applause it gets...and it turned out to be yet another Koontz dog novel.The characters in this novel are shallow and cardboard - the ex delta force soldier, a widower, falls in love with an abused woman.
Also, of course both of our heroes conveniently either invested their money/or inherited a large sum from a dead aunt, and don't have to work for the rest of their lives...and did I mention that the dog is special ?2 words: You can read this book if you are a Koontz fan, you might even get engrossed in it, but it's one of those books that you forget the moment you put it back on the shelf.
Unputdownable, with surprisingly deep characterization, and a super-smart dog that runs around adorably. + a nightmarish monster that escapes a laboratory and starts munching on the peaceful population of modern suburbia.An immaculate mix of horror, romance, and action.
★★☆☆☆“We have a responsibility to stand watch over one another, we are watchers, all of us, watchers, guarding against the darkness.”Travis Cornell truly believes he’s cursed. Seemingly, everyone he’s ever loved has suffered an untimely death, including his entire army unit and more recently his wife. He’s all alone in the world, scared to make any new connections, slowly slipping into a dark depression. In an attempt to lift his spirits, he revisits a favorite childhood destination—the Santa An
Seemingly, everyone he’s ever loved has suffered an untimely death, including his entire army unit and more recently his wife.
He’s all alone in the world, scared to make any new connections, slowly slipping into a dark depression.
As he’s hiking down a trail, a Golden Retriever appears in his path refusing to let him pass.All her life Nora Devon has been under the thumb of her overbearing aunt.
Trapped and reeling, with no apparent means of escape, a Golden Retriever arrives just in the nick time to thwart those advances.Vince Nasco is a deranged hitman who believes his special superpower allows him to absorb the very life force of his victims.
I totally enjoyed Watchers. Honestly? it is what it is, and, yes, some of the characterizations and descriptions were a bit, well, heavy handed. But--the dog, Einstein, is completely irresistible. Mostly is a real page turner. It was my before bed reading, and most nights it gave me nightmares, but I couldn't stop reading. And did I mention the dog? In the first chapter, Travis Cornell is hiking in Santiago Canyon, and he finds (or perhaps is found by?) a stray dog, who seems to be warning him a
Initially skeptical, Travis eventually realizes something IS following them, and, taking the dog with him, he heads for home.
As Travis soon learns, this is no ordinary dog.
But as their relationship develops, the dog rescues him in all kinds of ways, most notably by introducing him to the lovely (but terribly introverted) Nora.The bad guys in this book are really, really bad.
With one exception--Koontz nicely complicates the evil thing that's pursuing Travis and Einstein.
In a Frankenstein's monster kind of way.In his afterward, written considerably afterward, Koontz talks about how readers continue to tell him how much they love this book.
blah....
Now, I know that when someone writes a book it doesn't have to reflect real life, but does that mean that they couldn't at least try to make it seem real?
All his annoying story recipes were present such as: beautiful, perfect woman; strong, manly (yet so thoughtful)man; and technology gone awry.
To save one beautiful and amazingly smart golden retriever (can he talk?
Oh, do you have to ask?) from a crazed and Evil baboon/pig (how evil?
Evil enough to kill an amazing golden retriever, so thats pretty darn evil).
The story appeals not only horror fans but I think that readers who like techno-thriller may find quite amusing the book, since the story uses in a very creative way elements of science fiction and indeed you have a plot full of suspense.
Also, the book has clearly many of the trademark things of Dean Koontz.
If you are a dog-lover, this book will appeal to you totally.
The narrative is fluid and it doesn't have much characters so, you will get into the book quite quick and you'll be way entertained.
Because the two are psychically linked, it spends its time tracking down the dog when not decapitating innocent people and animals, that is.The remainder of the book is filled with the antics of a crazed killer-for-hire, corrupt political goings-on, "The Outsider's" quest for death and destruction and the gooey-sweet love story between Travis, a victimized woman who is so naive as to be completely unbelievable and whose name I've already forgotten and Einstein the dog.
If that's the case, maybe getting older isn't such a bad thing ;)I enjoyed the re-read and recommend this book to any dog lover and Koontz fan.
Wow!! Just wow!! I loved it. This book had EVERYTHING!! It’s my first Dean Koontz book, the writing, the story, all of it was fantastic. Great characters as well!! One of my all time favorite books.
An entertaining and touching story that is part sci-fi, part romance and part thriller resulting in a fast-paced read. If you are an animal lover, you will surely love Einstein the dog, but probably feel sorry for the Outsider too. One of my favorite character's, other than Einstein of course, was the attorney, Garrison Dilworth. What a tough old dude! Enjoyed it!
I pretty much skimmed the last 200 pages which is the first time I’ve ever had to do that with a book but I knew I would be reading it all month otherwise.
The concept/plot of this book was intriguing to me and the whole ethical dilemma of animal testing with a bit of action thrown in for good measure sounded like it could be onto something.
Add into that there is a Labrador running around in it then I was looking forward to it as I’m very dog friendly and was able to picture one of our Labradors as the lead.But somewhere along the way it went bad.
One of my favorite Koontz books! If you are a dog lover this will be a favorite. If you're not this book might just change your mind. Fantastic!
3.5So, I guess it’s time to come clean, guys.My name is Stepheny and I push books.
I push books because I like doing it.
I like forcing encouraging others to read books that I love.
What happens when the pushees start to push the pusher?She is forced to read Dean Fucking Kill Me Now Koontz.My darling Delee, great and wonderful friend that she is, said “Ohhhhh no, Stepheny.
You MUST read a Koontz book with me.
Through a series of tests they discover this dog’s story.
MOSTLY because I loved Einstein and now my quest to find a brilliant doggy that can read has begun.
3.5 starsI read this for the '80s Horror square for Halloween Bingo When the telephone rang, it startled her. She put down her pencil and reached for the receiver. "Hello?""Funny," a man said."Excuse me?""They never heard of him." I know this story has monsters, psycho killer, semi-curses, awful bitter aunt, and government agents, but this was the moment that sent a chill down my spine. Nora's aunt that kept her just about child protective services needed isolated dies and leaves Nora alone and
I know this story has monsters, psycho killer, semi-curses, awful bitter aunt, and government agents, but this was the moment that sent a chill down my spine.
This stalker plot introduces us to Nora and is a way to connect her with Travis and Einstein and then fades into the distance pretty quickly.
If that wasn't enough for you there is a contract killer who is being paid by the Russians to kill the scientists responsible for Einstein and The Outsider.
I went in to this hearing that this was the best Koontz book ever.
Of his books I have read, I would not say that this was my favorite (maybe not even in the top 5) - but it was still pretty good.The following may get me "booed" by some, but I am not really a dog person and Koontz often has a golden retriever as a main character.
I think that fact may have tainted my feelings about this book a bit.
(I'm pretty sure I missed a few meals and a shower or two.) What Koontz lacks in literary depth, he more than makes up for in readability, suspense, and just plain, old-fashioned good storytelling.
(Die-hard horror fans know that there is a weirdly popular sub-genre of horror fiction in which dogs are the protagonists.
I suppose it's completely understandable as to why the sub-genre is popular.
Granted, that describes nearly ALL of Koontz's books, but so be it...
Ostajem pri petici. Koontz ponekad piše naivno, ali tako jasno da ga svatko može čitati. Likovi su mu pretežno trivijalni i i crno bijeli, ali kod njega mi to paše. A i jako volim pse. Puno više od ljudi pa mi je Einstein i dalje pas broj 2. Pas broj jedan je Yoda, moj crni labrador :) Super knjiga za opuštanje. Uzbudljiva, napeta, na dijelovima duhovita... evo i drugi puta sam je pročitao i dobra je. Prvi puta je bilo tamo davno još u srednjoj školi.
Watchers was a typical Dean Koontz novel - nothing all that wonderful, but a cut above many of the mass-market fictions out there. And the canine theme was very different, a little like Koontz' The Darkest Evening of the Year, but more sci-fi than thriller.
I liked everyone, but as I said in a status update (sort-of), Koontz is more of a plot guy rather than a character one.
His strength is in the story, which is cool, but sometimes his characterization skills seems a little unrealistic to me, especially when it comes to romantic relationships.
I read a joke the other day that since this book Koontz seems to enjoy injecting a dog into almost all the romantic relationships in further books, and it does work well here.
The ending was the shining area of the story, especially the last scene with the Outsider.
I have read this book several times over the years, but it has been a while since the last time I read it.One of the things that amazes me about Koontz is his ability to create characters that pull you into the story and root for them.
inherently evil and while Koontz appears to give easy answers to these questions, the characters representing these differing ideas made it clear that there are no absolutes.
As with many of Koontz's books I find this story satisfying on many different levels.
And I already know that my book club will have eaten up every last word in this book.So, once again, it’s a case of, “It’s me, not you, dear Dean Koontz.” (I happened to love the afterword read by him at the end, telling the history of this book that’s been in circulation for nearly 32 years, and his relationship to it).
Such a fun book. Not my fave Koontz but very enjoyable. And Dean Koontz can write a decent love scene. I was so proud! Loved the sci-fi elements and the romance. Great story.
Koontz raises a lot of interesting questions and though I don't agree with some of his opinions on religion & politics, he handled them well!
Well, maybe not so surprising given that one of the main characters was a dog.
The other two main characters were also interesting and fully fleshed out, and I enjoyed Nora's character arc, from recluse bullied and abused by her aunt, to a confident and brave woman!Combining some of my favourite things (dogs, and plots where secret government agencies do secret things and then the secret things turn around and bite them on the ass) with great characters and plotting, I was truly surprised by Koontz!
I know a lot of people don't like Koontz, no clue why, I always enjoyed his stuff.
I like to get into the good and bad.
So real fast the basic idea is Travis, our main character, stumbles on a dog who is extremely smart.
I loved Einstein (he's the dog) he's both lovable and brave and awesome and I want one so bad...I already have 3 dogs, so that says a lot.
I also enjoyed Travis and Nora, both well made character who stay interesting throughout.
The book is a fast, easy, fun read.
It's the third best book I've read from Dean and worth your time if you like thrillers.
Watchers is as good as Dean Koontz gets and it is pretty damn good.
There are all the hallmarks of what put Koontz on the top of his game, which he was in the late 80s.
There non-stop storytelling.
There's a terrible but fascinating villain (Koontz writes some of the best villains in modern horror).
And, of course, there is a really cool dog...Golden retriever of course.
It is this intellectually enhanced dog that really carries the tale and makes it rise above the pack (no pun intended) in mainstream suspense and horror.
The place to start, and some people say to stop, in reading Dean Koontz.
Είναι από τα γνωστότερα βιβλία του Koontz και καθόλου άδικα, αφού η ιστορία του είναι πρωτότυπη (για το 1987) και καλογραμμένη.
Από ένα σημείο και μετά έπιασα τον εαυτό μου να κάνει ''υπερωρίες'' στο διάβασμα και αυτό μάλλον λέει πολλά από μόνο του.
Του έκοψα το πέμπτο αστεράκι κυρίως για τους chaotic good χαρακτήρες του (και τους δύο chaotic bad -μαζί με το Τέρας).
Είναι σπανιότατο να συναντήσει κανένας τόσο αγνούς και καλόψυχους ανθρώπους μαζεμένους.
Δεν με έπεισε, αλλά σε καμία των περιπτώσεων δεν κατέστρεψε το βιβλίο, το οποίο και το συνιστώ ανεπιφύλακτα στους λάτρεις του είδους (μυστηρίου/θρίλερ το κατατάσσω εγώ)
