https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/611298.I_Am_America
Most Americans are familiar with Stephen Colbert and his viciously partisan antics.
He makes Ann Coulter, that hateful, Republican attack-hermaphrodite, look like a kindly grandmother.
In I Am America (And So Can You), Colbert attempts to translate the uniquely twisted logic of his TV rants into a book of socio-political commentary.
The introduction is more like an instruction list, guiding the reader in how to "read" the book.
Colbert may be absolutely correct in his suggestions for dealing with the elderly, and whether one agrees with the end result or not, he does issue the most coherent argument yet provided by the right on why homosexuality is dangerous.
By the end I realized there was only one: "I am America by Stephen Colbert." What, you ask?
I worry about the people out there who actually take this seriously.
"Oh that's ridiculous," you say, "no one's stupid enough to take Colbert seriously." Wrong.
And yet, some people did.
There are still people in the world that take everything they hear at face value.
How is it they haven't all already been accidentally run over by buses?EDIT: Holy shit, when I originally wrote this review back in '12, I didn't realize exactly how prophetic the above paragraph would actually turn out to be!
Stephen Colbert is the highly entertaining comedian that has been mocking Republicans relentlessly at every turn.
I have no vested interest in American politics.
Colbert obviously knew that the schtick was going to get old and so peppered the book with many, many amusing images and captions.
This book really belongs in the hands of a die-hard Liberal American.
I agree with the sentiments but as long as no nukes get launched, I can't say that I care much what America does with its politics and therefor couldn't keep interested in the book.

Rachel and I were in the audience for the Colbert Report a week before the writers went on strike.
Before the show Stephen takes questions from the audience.
Rachel's question was "what are you reading right now?" Stephen said "A Jesuit of Broadway".
Rachel asked "what is it about?" Stephen said "it's about a Jesuit on Broadway".
Getting farther in it though, it seems there is a lot of padding.
Or perhaps it's just missing something in translation.I'd recommend getting the Book-on-Tape (CD) version.
I think it would be a lot funnier actually read by Stephen Colbert."Nothing the ladies like more than a big sack.
At times, I did find myself scared because I felt like many right wingers would listen to this and either 1) agree with it without recognizing the irony, or 2) not think it reflected their party's views when in fact it does.
That at least is a wonderful thing.I met Colbert briefly, heard him read with Amy Sedaris and Paul Dinello at an indie bookstore in Chicago that no longer exists many years ago upon the release of their very funny novel Wigfield The Can-Do Town That Just May Not. In person, he is rather like his persona--very big and presentational.
He made a dry joke, something about..."You do know we're a comedy show, right?" which got a laugh.
Some of the time, very funnyMuch of the time, sorta funny to fairly amusing. Occasionally, not funny at all.Stephen Colbert is talented, and his political humor is entertaining, as long as it is in small doses. Here, the schtick got a little old a little fast and left me a little bored, at least when I wasn't laughing out loud. So it was good, but not as good I had hoped. I think I'll stick to him in on the TV.
Colbert is funny as hell. This book breaks the forth wall and I love it. The book does lose a little steam at the end, but it still was one of the funniest books to read out there, helps take your mind from all the bad out there. Really needed a laugh and this book did it.
Hearkens to an earlier time when Steven Colbert ruled by 'The Word' and spoke pure truthiness.
At the back is a sheet of 'The Steven T Colbert Award For The Literary Excellence' stickers to put on books of your choosing in accordance with the free market.
So naturally I slapped one on the side of my computer because the internet is the new books.
See?So here's some free advice Steven (I KNOW you're reading this right now); get some better quality control and find your voice again and I mean the loud one.Edited 12-8-2018
too funny, rtc
I suspect that Stephen Colbert, the relentlessly egotistical headlining author of I Am America (And So Can You!), would protest if you called his book funny, but it most definitely is funny.
In his mind, however, the book is an indispensable work of truth and advice about how to navigate your life.
He also hopes that his readers have not read any books before, presumably so that their minds will be pure and therefore most receptive to his truth.
I recommend this book to people who do not read books and like to be told how to think by a male authority figure.
I really can't speak for the print version of this book at all, since I feel it really must differ dramatically from the audiobook - a lot of the chapters were read by other people (he calls it a "full cast of characters") with accompanying sounds, music, and other effects that really did add to the fairly vapid humor found within the script...So, all in all, watch the Colbert Report, but perhaps this is 3 and 1/2 hours you could spend listening to Madonna or something.
So. I want to say that I adore Stephen Colbert. I think he's funny and he's clever. I love watching his show. This book definitely sounds like him, it's very in his voice, and while I love that voice on TV, I couldn't even finish this book. Somehow it didn't translate right in this format for me. (Sorry, Stephen. Just read that second line where I said I adore you and ignore the rest of this. Except stick to TV and writing for that.)
Everyone knows that the 80/20 rule even applies to humor: 20% is the joke and 80% is the timing or delivery.
After spending a few days cruising through this book I felt tired and worn out, not unlike the same mental exhaustion I experienced the last time I played a game with my 5 year-old nephew where the rules were made up on the fly, and seemingly known only to him.
The audiobook is so much fun.
If you like the Colbert Report, you'll probably like this book.
Since Stephen Colbert is one of my favorite celebrities, I did very much enjoy the listen.
I listened to it audio knowing that most of Stephen Colbert's comedic humor is the delivery.
He mocks many things I believe by arguing for them with the most ridiculous logic and I still laugh and think it's hilarious.
Particularly long were his "Stephen speaks for me" characters who rattled on about nothing in particular but made sure to get a sailor's quantity of f-words in there.
Just skip the tracks where Stephen isn't speaking.
Upon its first few viewings I thought that I might not like it as much as “The Daily Show,” but after a little bit of time in warming up to the character of Stephen Colbert, I quite frankly think that “Colbert Report” is in many ways the much funnier show.
I thought the book was spectacular and the only element missing from the show/character of Stephen Colbert was his incredible interviewing talent, best evidenced on the show in segments like “better know a district.” No real surprise that the various quips that Mr. Colbert uses so well on his show are also used to great effect in the book.
Satire pre-Obama style. Wink wink, nudge nudge, and tongue firmly planted in cheek. If you want a snapshot of exactly what the Colbert Report was you can't do any better. It reminded me of the faux-Ron Burgundy biography I read in that it was funny, but it wasn't quite enough to sustain a whole book. I've got the next one from the library as well from the middle of the Obama years, I'll be curious to see how that one is.
Just by reading the title and the back cover (which incidentally only had about 15 words on it) I knew that this book would be funny.
The character that Colbert plays on his show (intensely-conservative-right-wing-republican) is not actually him.
So being a regular watcher of his show, and knowing what most of his opinions already were, I would have gotten more out of this book if it contained the real Stephen Colbert's views on politics, religion, sex and dating, sports, homosexuals, America, Immigrants, etc.
(These are all names of some of the chapters.) But it didn't, it just contained his character's views and opinions.
Alas, unlikely.I had to give a presentation to a room full of local union leaders last weekend in Austin TX.
But of course to really work, it required knowledge of Colbert's book on the part of the audience, something I couldn't be at all sure of in advance.
I started out my session with a question: "Am I the only one in the room who was given a copy of Stephen Colbert's book for Christmas?" Turned out, about 1/3 of the room had received a copy, another 1/3 had *given* a copy to someone, and most people in the room depend on the Daily Show and Colbert Report for their news.I know this proves something.
There were a number of times in this book I was laughing out loud, not just a little chuckle, but a full belly laugh. I wouldn't recommend this book to someone who is P.C. sensitive (mom!) or you might just have a stroke before you get to chapter three; and maybe not for the uber-conservative, but even the moderate conservative thinker might find this amusing considering the state of politics today. If you like a good political farce, you are in for a good laugh. A warning on some of the language to the sensitive reader.
Post Trump review:HOLY SHIT I REREAD THIS TODAY AND REALIZED THAT IT LITERALLY TALKS ABOUT BUILDING A WALL ON THE SOUTHERN BORDER. This book was published in 2007, so it's nearly 10 years old! Stephen Colbert predicted our future, ladies and gentlemen.Pre Trump review. Like, REALLY pre Trump Honestly, this has gotta be my favourite humour book of all time.
Hilarious, but also a little saddening that a spoof on extreme right ideology has become today's reality...
First, I want to thank Mr. Colbert for saving me from a dim and meaningless life as a book-reading, thought-having, liberal.
"I AM AMERICA (And So Can You)" showed me the light (not that I'm a fan of The Enlightenment) and released me from my prison of 'reality' and 'facts.'Even better, Mr. Colbert taught me that books are useless objects that only make you think.
(Don't give them away - Stephen says "no free rides!") If every person in America would read this book, we'd save our nation from femiliberislamocommunoenvirofascism (and Bears) by the end of the week.
Thanks to MY secret librarian powers, I didn't get my hands on this before it was released, but I did get it before anyone else had the chance to check it out.
Sure, there's a little something missing when you read his word (I have to imagine Colbert reading it in his unmistakable vocal style); yet it retains that hilarious-as-hell trait we all know and love.
Just move back in with your parents NOW."), to the "Stephen Speaks for Me: A Chance for Average Americans to Agree with What I Think" sidebars, the entire book just makes me laugh thinking about it.
A must-read for the Colbert devotees.
It has its funny moments, but there is a lot of fluff in between the funny parts.
It does capture the tone of any pundit book out there, and that may actually work against it as well; pundit books suffer from the problem of just going on too long to make their point.
And I think that is the problem with the book: it just goes on too long, and some of the jokes seem to stretch on forever.
Unless you are a really hardcore fan of the Colbert Nation, you can probably safely skip this book.

Not sure why it took me so long to finish this book.
Maybe it's like when you save your Halloween candy and your siblings (who scarfed theirs before their costumes even came off) are jealous when you still have a Snickers fun size with your lunch well into December.
Now that I'm done, and my sides ache from laughing, I'm glad I doled it out to myself in small doses.
It was less about savoring and more about the fact that Stephen Colbert, in large amounts, much like your Halloween candy, can give you a stomach ache.
For me, this was a long awaited diatribe!!This book is recommended by Stephen Colbert. It is written by Stephen Colbert. It has a an introduction by Stephen Colbert and just by opening the cover you become 25% more patriotic. If that's not a 5 star recommendation, I don't know what is!!**Must have a full functioning understanding of IRONY and all it's glory or this book is NOT for you.
Disappointing. Whatever makes Colbert so hilarious and charming on television didn't make it onto the page. The book also felt cobbled together by different writers. Sometimes jokes felt heavy-handed; other times the sarcasm was so subtle that it made Colbert's faux uber-conservatism kind of uncomfortable.
