https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57950.Swords_and_Deviltry
We meet the young Fafhrd--a barbarian of the northern wastes dominated by his mother, the great Snow Witch--who longs for the excitement and variety of civilization that arrives in the form of a theatrical caravan, and we meet Mouse--the apprentice of a poor hedge wizard--who revenges his master's death, becoming in the process "The Grey Mouser." The book ends with what is perhaps its best tale, an account of the two heroes' first adventure together, in which they join their wits and swordsmanship to defeat the Thieve's Guild of Lankhmar, the City of a Thousand Smokes.Leiber does not choose to construct an alternate world--or an elaborate multi-volume quest, for that matter--with the painstaking care of Tolkien, but he writes just as well (perhaps better) and creates a marvelously expansive world filled with good food, good wine, good sex and good fellowship, with a little roguery and thievery thrown in for good measure.
There's a feel of both age and timelessness about these stories--tall, fur-clad barbarian and short swordsman-thief who can vanish in the shadows--this is like reading the origin myth for characters we've known for decades.
The four stories (three novellas and one vignette) within describe the adventures of Fafhrd, a giant barbarian from the frozen wastes, and the Gray Mouser, a youth who has apprenticed to a hedge-wizard.
'The Unholy Grail' covers the Grey Mouse's origin, and 'Ill Met in Lankhmar' is when they meet again and become true companions.
It's well done.Leiber does, perhaps, show his age in these stories, both personally and culturally.
This beautifully, illustrated by Tom Kidd, version of the book also contains additional material.007 - Introduction by Michael Moorcock015 - The Original Appearance of the Grey Mouser and Fafhrd of the Blue Eyes by Harry O.
Morris (1978)236 - ""The Grey Mouser" poems239 - Interview with Fritz Leiber by Jim Purviance in Algol (1978)256 -Copyright and AcknowledgmentsThis is copy 40 of 300 signed copies printed and is signed by Fritz Leiber (Facsimile Signature) and Tom Kidd
Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser is the tale of a companionship between a mountain tribe barbarian and a failed wizard's apprentice, and their journeys together in Lankhmar and the surrounding lands.Swords and Deviltry is the first book (actually first collection of short stories) in the series, and introduced the two protagonists with one origin story each, then ends with Ill Met in Lankhmar, the tale of how the unlikely friends first meet.This was an acceptably enjoyable fantasy tale, but its quality seems to have withered a bit as time has passed.
Excellent!Wayne: OK, welcome to our show, today we’ll be talking about some swingalicious sword and sorcery action, specifically Fritz Leiber’s 1970 collection of “prequel” stories, beginning the chronological adventures of his AWESOME heroes Fafhrd and Gray Mouser.Garth: Yeah, they’re sword and sorcery heroes kind of like we’re rock heroes.Wayne: Ha!
Kind of gives a new meaning to … Maneater.[both laugh]Wayne: OK, that’s our show, so stay tuned for our next show when we’ll ask the question, “Is too much ever enough?”Garth: Good question.Wayne’s World!Wayne’s World!Wayne’s World!
Of course I’m familiar with the name of this Nebula (1970) and Hugo (1971) award-winning novella, and I knew I’d be reading it in Swords and Deviltry, but for the first time the name had real significance for me and I couldn’t wait to witness the meeting of Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser.
I’ve already downloaded the next Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser compilation (Swords Against Death) and I’m hoping to meet some worthy women in it.
And in such an unexpected location: a pulp fantasy novel!I don't know what Leiber looked like, but I'm picturing that sickly-skinny kid from The New Guy. This book is every bit as embarrassing to read as Piers Anthony, although it has a slightly lower number of naked women per page.
In case any of you are foolish enough to read this waste of paper and time, I won't spoil exactly how this manifests itself, but it's clear that every female involved in the plot is being used as a vehicle for setting up the male characters.
There's not even anything notably interesting about the fantasy world being presented in these two stories.
It consists of 3 novellas which talk about the background of the main characters, Fafhrd and Gray Mouser and their fateful meeting.The Snow Women.
Not much happened except for Fafhrd's brooding and longing to see the civilized lands.
Usually some minor sexism does not bother me much - I try to keep in mind the time period when a book was written - unless the author goes out of his/her ways showing it (I am looking at you, Robert A.
He starts dabbling in not-so-white magic trying to stay alive and get revenge; he also changes his name to more appropriate Gray Mouser.
Like Howard, Leiber enriched his work with details from ancient tales and histories, thereby adding forgotten traditions of literature back into the modern style.
However, we should also take a further lesson, and recall that Leiber was not satisfied to simply rewrite Howard's tales, but also looked to change and challenge his own style.
Too many authors, particularly in fantasy, seem happy to write the same stories that have already been written, with only the names changed to protect the guilty.This first collection presents the way in which Leiber's most famous creations, Fafhrd and the Grey Mouser, met; and also presents stories of their origins before their portentous meeting.
The first one is about Fafhrd and, looking through the reviews, even some of the people that like this book say that this isn't a terribly great story.
While this tale didn't blow my socks off (there is just too much of nothing happening in between brief action scenes), if all three stories had been at least this good then I would have given this collection at least three stars.
But, by this point, I was just ready for this book to be over and this story wasn't good enough to save it.
Finally, I just love reading short stories; it isn't that I haven't the attention span for novels, but I enjoy reading things in a single sitting and I like to take stories with me on trips, or even on my way to work in the mornings as I ride public transit.SO, since this marks the beginning of my favourite long-running fantasy series, why did I only give this book three stars?
The story turns a lot darker toward the end, showcasing the full range of the author abilities.
Feminists might be turned off by the portrayal of some characters, ranging from harpies to temptress, and Leiber seems quite fond of the fantasy equivalent of strip joints, but once again toward the end, the feminine characters gain depth and subtlety.The language is quite flowery and full of adjectives, but I got used to it very fast and I was able to enjoy the scenery and the action.I hope to return soon to the Fafhrd and Grey Mouser exploits
The book contains three origin stories: “The Snow Women” (Fafhrd), “The Unholy Grail” (Mouser), and “"Ill Met in Lankhmar" (initial meeting of the duo).
Unfortunately, the story is about 110 pages long in my edition, approximately 45% of the book.
The Gray Mouser’s origin tale, “The Unholy Grail,” was quick and a bit more exciting, dealing with the “sorcery” side of Sword & Sorcery and black magic.
Our duo finally meet in an well-written story, "Ill Met in Lankhmar." Leiber does a great job penning the witty banter between the two, and the events in the story give a deeper understanding of the characters.
It is definitely a standout story and well worth your time.Honestly, it’s hard to judge this first installment of the Fafhrd and Gray Mouser series.
The stories are extremely well-written in a slightly archaic style that is well-suited to describe their mythic adventures, but it may come off a bit stilted for readers more comfortable with modern fantasy series like George R.R. Martin’s Song of Ice and Fire or Joe Abercrombie’s The First Law. Still, Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser are fairly sardonic and jaded about their own exploits, so they feel like real characters with complex motivations even if they are mainly intent on thieving, swindling, brawling, wenching, etc.
But if you look at this book as a snapshot of history, it is exactly what it should be-a formative piece of writing that inspired generations of writers and is a subterranean root drawn on by many of our current fantasy authors knowingly or unwittingly.There is a degree of callousness in the collection of short stories that form this book.
Personally, I like the moral ambiguity of the central characters.
I personally always liked the mix of good and evil in the central characters.
I think it adds an air of unpredictability.So, yes, I like this.
Read this if you are interested in a snapshot of the past and want to explore the roots of this genre.
origin stories in one.
First we see Fafhrd the northern barbarian, strangely fascinated by decadent civilization, up in his cold northern wastes; then we meet the Gray Mouser (well, "Mouse" at this point), wizard's apprentice with an undercurrent of darkness.
Then finally, in Ill-Met in Lankhmar, they join forces for the first time, with unexpected and tragic consequences.This is kind of an odd one -- the stories were written as backstory long after Fafhrd and Mouser had appeared as a pair.
But I look forward to the next book (Swords Against Death) which does contain some of the better stories.
3.5 stars This novel collects the first of the Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser stories. The first two stories, The Snow Women and the Unholy Grail introduce us to Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser individually. While these are decent stories, the real magic is when the two meet for the first time in Ill Met In Lankhmar which is a superb story in the classic sword and sorcery meets buddy book genre. The last story is a 4.0 to 4.5 star story. The relative weakness of the first two stores is what brings the overall rating to 3.5. Recommended
Un certo tipo di fantasy ha tratto a piene mani da queste storie fantastiche.
Assolutamente imperdibile per gli amanti del fantasy brillante e scanzonato, sì leggero eppure tutt'altro che banale.
Se vi è piaciuto "La principessa sposa" (da cui è stato tratto il film "La storia fantastica") non pensateci due volte e leggetelo; e tenete presente che è stato scritto vari anni prima della commedia fantasy di Goldman!
Non vedo l'ora di leggere nuove avventure del gigante barbaro e del piccolo e agile ladro, mai come questa volta sono felice di avere ancora tante storie da leggere e un intero mondo (rigorosamente fantasy) da esplorare.
In my journey in the genre of sword and sorcery I end up here, in a collection of short stories about 2 very popular heroes. I find them both interesting and their stories are fast paced and action packed but beside that there is not a trace of significant literature in this book. Maybe a good way to realise how much progress has been done in fantasy in the last decades.
Три истории, които въвеждат в огромния фентазиен свят на Лейбър и само дразнят читателя, който знае че има още много.Помня как ме надъхаха преди години, но си останах прелъстен и изоставен в очакване на продължения.
Накратко:Чудесно начало, обещаващо задъхани приключение, което те оставяя петимен за още и макар с повече от десетилетие закъснение – Ура – вече е факт.
While it left me cold, so to speak, when I first encountered it as a teenager, I gained a whole new appreciation of "The Snow Women" and the fraught gender politics contained within as a married adult.I found "The Unholy Grail" to be the weakest of the three stories, and that's particularly disappointing given that The Gray Mouser is one of my favorite fictional characters of all time.
It threw me off a bit when I was a teenager, but Fafhrd's Vlana and Mouser's Ivrian are not the idealized women so often portrayed in fantasy fiction.
Преди да се сдобия с това букинистко бужу, бях чел само третата история - "Среща със злото в Ланкмар", която като самостоятелна новела, ей така лекинко е обрала де що има наградки през седемдесетте години на миналия век, вкл.
Е, нещата си дойдоха на мястото, след изчитането на "Снежните жени" - първата новела, която ме запозна с произхода на варварина Фафрд и втората - "Нечестивият граал", където пък разбрах това-онова за дребничкия чирак на магьосник и крадец по съвместителство - Мишока.
А четената и препрочитана "Среща със Злото..." ми достави още по-голямо удоволствие с изяснените вече моменти, които не бях схванал при предните прочити.

He explained that it was the first of the fantasy sub-category of swords & sorcery and the first of Leiber's many books telling the tales of Fafrel and The Grey Mouser.
I learned after listening to it that it is composed of three novellas -- The Snow Woman, The Unholy Grail, and Ill Met in Lankhmar.
I found it difficult to engage with and just as I started to enjoy it, it was over and the narrator was talking about a grey mouse.
I'm not sure if I'll read more of the adventures of Fafrel and The Grey Mouser, but I can see why young boys would enjoy them.
The story is pretty straight forward.
The setting is very Elder Scrolls/Skyrim-ish.
I liked it.The story is only 200 odd pages so its a quick and light read.
"Drink may slow a man's sword-arm and soften his blows a bit, but it sets his wits ablaze and fires his imagination ...drunken men are supremely cautious..."It has its charm.
If it was a longer book it probable wouldn't have been that good.
But as a shortish story it serves as a refreshing pallet cleanser to the very dark Abercrombie books I'm reading and enjoying at the moment.A good beach or lunch break read
Not entirely sure what I think of this one.
I can give it a bit of latitude due to its era, etc, but it's ridiculously and stereotypically male oriented.
Otherwise, there's a bunch of stereotyped controlling women, and a bunch of violence.
okay, with some lovely bits of prose and touches of humour, but.
Eh. I know these books are classics so I'll probably look into the next one before I give up, but I'm not really in the mood to forgive scheming, conniving women and male characters who think they're wonderful.
The only story i have read of Lieber before this collection was "Ill Met in Lankmar" in some fantasy masters short story collection.Reading these three first Fahred and Gray Mouser stories reminded why i like reading so much different fantasy stories.
If its not hardcore,bleak and horror like S&S ala Robert E.Howard i like this complete different style."The Snow Women" Young Fahred in his barbarian birthplace,culture was interesting but i thought the story was weaker than the other two stories.
The vengeful Mouser was very good read and dark,moody story."Ill Met in Lankhmar," i liked for how witty,fun it was and how Fahred and Gray Mouser are much better read together than their first two solo stories.
Read this earlier this year and had forgotten about it until i saw a discussion about it on here today.
First of all, i had heard about these books for years and was excited to finally get an omnibus edition with the first 3 or 4 books in the series.I found it uninspiring and very stereotypical overall.
It is abundantly clear while reading it that it is created by the immature mind of college age boys.
Leiber has said that the Gray Mouser and Fahfr were alter egos that him and a friend developed while in college and the story kept growing from there.
This story seemed like the realization of a young boys fantasy.
Leiber is a fine writer and there is certainly music in his prose. I don't think he's as good a storyteller as Robert E. Howard, and at times his "tongue-in-cheek" approach is a bit aggravating to me. But he can tell a good story and the characters and the world are well-drawn and certainly imaginative.
Contains: "Induction" (vignette 1957, "Two Sought Adventure") "The Snow Women" (novella 1970 Fantastic) "The Unholy Grail" (novelette 1962 Fantastic) "Ill Met in Lankhmar" (novella 1970 F&SF)— won both a Nebula award and a Hugo awardURC 50 #X: "collection of short stories"TBR'18 #9: "Based on the blurb or blerg" And, you know, I loved these guys growing up...
