https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/977419.Three_Singles_to_Adventure
(hide spoiler)] In these early animal-collecting forays, Durrell would be relying on the local people both to help and to identify what generally lived there.
Anyone having kept guinea pigs would recognise this gnawing behaviour - and the animal's squeaking interest in the sounds it could produce.The animals just keep coming: soldier rats with spines, bright red furred howler monkeys, ameva, who would shed their tail when stressed, tegu, the largest freshwater fish (6-7' long) called an arapainma, who Durrell was delighted to discover, exuded a milk-like substance from its head on which young "feed".
Detailing his 1950 animal collecting expedition to Guyana (then British Guiana) 'Three Singles To Adventure' takes its title from a set of tickets that Durrell purchased at the start of his adventure, buying passage for himself and two eccentric companions to the tiny dot on the map of 'Adventure'.Before he became a beacon of hope in the international conservation community, Durrell was an animal collector - a man who traveled the world catching exotic specimens to sell to zoos and collectors.
Animal collecting adventures in Guiana, South America (first published in 1954). Highlight: pipa toad reproduction and birth. A solid Durrell book but not a stand-out for me. My favorite lines: “I must say you’ve done your best to make this trip a memorable one,” said Bob bitterly. “Never a dull moment. Just like a Butlin’s Holiday Camp. First anacondas, then piranhas, and now sloths...”
The first thing that an animal lover may want to know before reading about adventures of an animal collector is that Gerald Durrell was a dedicated conservationist.
The photos and description of the author and his life’s work at the end of this book help to calm my concerns about exploitation of the animals, as his mission was to breed and study endangered species, rather than seeing a zoo as a commercial venture.
The only problem with this reading method is that it took me longer to finish the book because I was often sidetracked by photos and entertaining videos of the animals as I discovered them.
Alas, Poor Cuthbert!
Durrell set out to British Guina in 1950 to obtain animals for zoos in Great Britain.
Durrell excels in describing the animals he was after, and in setting the scenes where they were found.
Also the safekeeping and care of the animals he obtained.
His exploits, no matter how dangerous, were written with a great humor.
When you read the saga of poor Cuthbert, you cannot help but laugh.
This is an easy read, and moves along quickly.
Even with that being taken into account, it would be a great book for younger readers.
I had great fun reading this tale of animal collecting in South America.
Durrell, his work partner Smith and an artist named Bob, went off merrily to get the native people to help them collect animals for zoos and sanctuaries.
The many rodents, birds, reptiles and anteaters are described well with a good look at physical and behavioural adaptations.
Some of the creatures adapted at once to a basic diet and others were let run around a room where they sat on the men's feet no matter what was happening.
A superb read. Funny from start to finish.
The British naturalist Gerald Durrell is probably best known for his trilogy about his childhood in Corfu (which begins with My Family and Other Animals), but he also wrote a large number of other books, many of them describing his journeys to faraway countries to bring back animals for Britain’s zoos.First published in 1954, Three Singles to Adventure is an account of Durrell’s animal-collecting expedition to British Guiana (now Guyana) in 1950.
When you read of one of Gerald Durrell's books about his animal collecting expeditions, you almost certainly know what you're going to get (in my case particularly, as I'm pretty sure I've read all of them before).
The approximate recipe is as follows: one part lyrical descriptions of scenery, one part fascinating and easily accessible to the layman descriptions of animals, and one part anecdotes ranging from the merely amusing to the hilarious.
Join Gerald Durrell as he sets off on another wild adventure, this time to the jungles and grassland
Reading about Durrell's adventures was very amusing. My favorite in the book though is neither Durrell nor any of his companions. It is the bird Cuthbert, which was an utterly funny and by far the most interesting character in Three Singles to Adventure
Сейчас читать его на планшете даже удобнее - можно параллельно заглядывать в гугл и разглядывать фотографии птиц и зверей, о которых идет речь."Три билета до Эдвенчера" - книга о второй экспедиции Даррела, после которой он, собственно, и взялся за перо.
Впрочем, это не портить прочтения нисколько, это скорее моя вредность.В то же время, сейчас уже по другому относишься и к самой идее зоопарков и отлова зверей для него, особенно учитывая какими были зоопарки в 50-е годы.
Да, разумеется, потом будет Джерсийский фонд защиты дикой природы, будет сохранение редких видов, но все это будет потом.
Gerald Durrell's books are "happy place". This book has a lot of absurd funny situations but the one where they scandalise toads and courting couples has to be the winner.
Animals, people and scenery all spring to life, engaging all your senses, even while you're snorting at the local names and apparent caricatures.
Seriously, you couldn't make this up.I can't remember if these were present in earlier editions, but at the end there is a useful index of animal names, along with some annotated photographs of Gerry and some recognizable characters (human and animal), which really help anchor the book to a real person.
Gerald Durrell's Three Singles to Adventure is a short, punchy, rip-roaring travelogue cum natural history lesson about the author's trip to (then) British Guiana (now Guyana) in 1950.
Durrell writes with a sort of bemused detachment in the way he describes both animals and people.
It is clear from the way he describes and treats some of them that Durrell genuinely cares for animals and so I found this particular detail somewhat confusing.
I was genuinely disappointed when the book came to an end and so have jumped straight back in with another of Durrell's books, which will be reviewed shortly no doubt...
Three Singles to Adventure is an account of Gerald Durrell's animal collecting expedition to British Guiana (now Guyana) in the 1950s.
The canoe tips and rocks precariously as everyone avoides the eel; a pygmy anteater in the bow, known locally as a thank'ee god, throws his hooked claws around making protestations to the heavens; a colleague stumbles about, catching his balance by accidentally grabbing a pimpla-hog, a porcupine; the porcupine then tries to escape by climbing the tallest person in the canoe to sit on their head.
And in the melee, the prize of the trip, the electric eel slips overboard and makes his escape into the darkenss.
I think this is the first I have read of his.He is certainly a skilled writer.The content is shocking -- plenty of people continue to hunt wild animals to sell to zoos today, but I guess publishers would hesitate to sell stories about this politically incorrect activity.But in 1954, when this book was published, the Great White Hunter was not yet politically incorrect.
But he certainly gets his hands dirty in catching animals himself, and caring for them.
Impressive.I am glad today's tendency is more towards photographing wild animals than catching them, but there is no denying Durrell makes for a good read.
Having been re-alerted to this author by the recent TV series The Durrells I came across a 1965 edition of this book for $2 somewhere & snapped it up.
As expected, it was both entertaining & educational as Durrell & his gang track down & capture animals in British Guiana in the 1950s that are then shipped to zoos around the world.
How you feel about zoos might well colour your own reaction to Durrell's work but regular childhood expeditions to Taronga Park Zoo in Sydney opened up a life-long fascination with wild-life for me.
Beautifully and amusingly written, as with all Gerald Durrell's books.
This tells the story of an adventurous animal collecting expedition to British Guiana in 1950.
Locations such as the lily covered creeks sound like a natural paradise for wildlife lovers.
All are beautifully described.As with others of Durrell's animal collecting books, the modern reader may have mixed feelings.
It is hard not to feel great sadness for all the wild creatures he collects, eg, the giant anteater being lassoed and brought from its natural savannah to a zoo in England.
However also knowing the conservation legacy of people like Durrell has saved some animals from extinction.
Gerald only 25 years old when he took this animal collecting trip to British Guiana in 1950, and he was so young, so strong, so fearless and often foolish.He's accompanied by Bob, an artist he had just met in Georgetown.
Bob hoped to paint a series of pictures of various Amerindian tribes, but everywhere he wanted to go the places were flooded.
He figured it would be fun to collect animals with Gerald.
He had no clue what was in store, and never had an opportunity to paint; in fact his canvasses were used to ship snakes by air.
In the present day scenario where most of the species he has captured from the wild on the verge of extinction it can be argued about the damaging effect of his anumal gathering expeditions.
I have read his books as a school kind and loved them.
Reading them after 30 odd years the stories are still fresh in the perspective of the time they were written.
With the aid of internet that now enable you to visualise and dwell further on the species he is taking about the books are much more fun for a animal lover.
The short saga of an animal collecting trip in the early 1950's to British Guiana which is studded with funny anecdotes.
One has to get past the assumptions of the 50's about native cultures and the relationship of people to animals to enjoy this book.
There is no question that naturalist Durrell loved and admired the animals he collected and did his best to take care of them as he hunted, netted, purchased, and otherwise obtained a shipload of assorted South American wild animals to convey back to England.
However, it is disturbing to read his paternalistic accounts of the "Amerindian" population and the death of many of the animals on ship.
I'm not sure this book really deserves 4 stars, but it is definitely better than 3.5 stars so I have it four.
My copy of the book is actually called Three Tickets to Adventure, and I couldn't find an edition listed on Goodreads which matched the one in my hands.
I did really enjoy the book.
The author imparts knowledge of the different fauna he collected in down to earth terms, easy for the non-scientist to understand.
He described the countryside and its inhabitants in such a manner you really felt you were traveling with him and his companions.
[These notes were made in 1981:].
Durrell's books were always good for a giggle when I was a teenager, and I find I haven't changed that much.
I realize now that he is editing, and that his collection trips obviously weren't just a long series of hilarious mishaps.
But the adult perspective does not really take away from the humour which he manages to infuse (for it is not necessarily inherent) into his accounts of animal antics.
But what he and Herriott (the only other animal writer I can stand) have most in common is a good command of the humorous qualities of the English language.
the edition i have, published in '64, is titled Three Tickets to Adventure. i recently read My Family and Other Animals and found the author's description of the natural world very entertaining. I know for others this became a bit tedious but not for me - so i felt comfortable jumping into his books that are focused more on his life as an animal collector. there are still entertaining humans as well but his tales of the animals he encounters and the environment in guiana are wonderful. i plan to read even more durrell!
My review may be biased as I love animals and anything to do with animals.I laughed and giggled and smirked and chuckled throughout this book. The situations and interactions with natives of British Guyana are aptly described and are rib-tickling. The plethora of emotions that Gerald Durrel invokes in his books is matched by no other! Gerald Durrell never fails to impress me and I like re-reading his books again and again!
This book is not very PC! As long as you are happy to remember that different things were acceptable when this was written then I highly recommend it! I read My Family and Other Animals when I was at school and I loved it, this is very similar, Gerald Durrell really does have a delightful way of describing animals and recalling amusing anecdotes. A lovely cheery collection of tales and tails. I must read some more of his books!
There are three types of Durrell books:1. Durrell reminisces about his family's antics 2. Durell talks about his animal capturing expeditions3. Durrell talks about his zoo.Three Singles to Adventure focuses on his expedition to South America to capture animals. Unfortunately these books vary in quality. Three singles is ok and as some great descriptions of animals but it lacks the punch of his African stories, which are far superior.
Enough good things can't be said about Gerald Durrell and his amazing (true) animal stories. Touching, clever, interesting, very witty and thoroughly compelling. I have seven of his books already, and my collection is steadily growing.Highly recommended.
Gerald Durrell is an excellent writer and his collection of animal collecting travel books are as worthy as the zoological preservation efforts he undertook throughout his interesting life. I did find these more charming on the first reading (this is the second after many, many years).
