https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/584512.Mules_and_Men
You decide if want more.I was glad when somebody told me, "You may go and collect Negro folklore." In a way it would not be a new experience for me.
If I had exalted myself to impress the town, somebody would have sent me word in a matchbox that I had been up North there and had rubbed the hair off of my head against some college wall, and then come back there with a lot of form and fashion and outside show to the world.
This is a short story collection from the ingenious author Zora Neale Hurston. I would suggest reading Their Eyes Were Watching God and if you enjoy the style, dive deeply and fearlessly into her universe with Mules and Men.
Mules and Men should be read right along side Joseph Campbell's work.
The use and importance of language is a reoccurring theme of hers, and in Mules and Men it is given equal examination along side African-American mythology.The brilliance of this work is Ms. Hurston’s own mythology as she inserts herself into her anthropological findings.
After reading Mules and Men, I’d love to do some extensive research on the origins of Bugs Bunny.
For those of you drawn to anthropology, mythology, folklore and the works of Joseph Campbell, Zora Neale Husrton’s Mules and Men is a must read.
First off, I didn't read this book but listened to it on an audiobook version.
This was a project that Ms Hurston started back in the 1930s when she had returned to her hometown of Eatonville, Florida.What a wonderful time I had listening to these imaginative stories told by the talented Ruby Dee. I felt like I was a little kid again, sitting on the floor, listening to a storyteller weaving some fantastical tales laced with humor, wisdom and culture.
This is definitely one "book" that should be listened to and not just read.
I can't say enough about Ruby Dee's reading of these stories.
But that in-between part--the actual reading of it--was not very fun.Zora Neale Hurston has such a gift for storytelling.
In the beginning I was all excited about reading this because she told of driving around Florida in her car, sort of gathering up folks with stories to tell.
Here’s a tame one: A woman went to Zora wanting to get her mother-in-law out of her house.
Zora’s remedy was to core out an onion, write the lady’s name on five little pieces of paper and stuff them in the middle of the onion.
62)Mules and Men is a collection of black stories and hoodoo (voodoo), published by Zora Neale Hurston in 1935.
If you’re gointer destroy Old Massa tonight, with his wife and chillun and everything he got, lemme see it lightnin’.” Jack up the tree, struck a match.
If you are gointer destroy Ole Massa tonight, his wife and chillun and all he got, Ah want to see it lightnin’ again.” Jack struck another match and Ole Massa started to run.
Returning to her hometown of Eatonville, Florida, to gather material, Zora Neale Hurston recalls "a hilarious night with a pinch of everything social mixed with the storytelling." Set intimately within the social context of black life, the stories, "big old lies," songs, Vodou customs, and superstitions recorded in these pages capture the imagination and bring back to life the humor and wisdom that is the unique heritage of African Americans."This has been the month for me to revisit all things Zora Neale Hurston, and it's been great.
I was stunned to find out that a few of those "lies" Hurston recorded were actually stories I had loved listening to as a little girl.
And the first part of the book (58%, to be precise) is that: a minimalistic narrative frame of some documentary value, but not going _too_ much into details of peoples' day-to-day lives, serving as a background for folk tales.
The sheriff was thinking of calling on her and scolding her severely.I can only say that my ability to read Southern African-American vernacular Hurston uses for the tales solidified.The second part (21%) concerns her initiations as a hoodoo priestess with different 'doctors' and hoodoo rituals, and even these chapters were - I don't believe I'm saying this - just that.
Ms. Zora Neale Hurston is my literary hero. That is all.
I still liked the book a lot, but I don't recommended to first time Zora readers.
Part one is a little hard to read at times too because Zora tries to write the dialect of her people.The first part of this book is a collection of folklore from her home town Eatonville, Florida.
At times I found this a little hard to read, but I still enjoyed hearing the tales.
I also enjoyed the John Henry stories as well.The second part of this book is a collection of hoodoo tales for New Orleans.
I really like how Zora wasn't just an author, but an anthropologist too.
Since this was an abridge version of the book, which I didn't know that I had, I wasn't sure if i would have liked it.
There was one tale, or "lie" as it is said to be in the book that I felt was cut off, maybe it was just bad editing.
But other than that, this was a pleasure to listen to.
I think some of them are ridiculous, like the one about how black folks became black, SPOILER >> it was all a misunderstanding lol.
It was a quick listen, about 3 hours.
Mules and Men by Zora Neale Hurston can be a hilarious read at times, all while giving insight into 1930s Floridian black communities in the swamps. Yet, this collection can struggle because it ultimately doesn’t know how to be what it wants to be.Check out my full review at Grab the Lapels.
An interesting mix of travelogue, folklore, and ethnography. The book reads as two yoked under one title; in the first part Hurston embeds African-American folktales within a fast-moving narrative frame, while in the second she switches to more deliberately recounting her research of different practices of hoodoo in the South.
This is a GoodRead! Unaware I was reading an abridged version of this read it still was a GoodRead, I just wonder what was taking out, the reason I normally do not read abridged books.
The writing itself was great, but the most amazing bit was how her style conveyed both love and respect for tradition, black history and floklore.
I forgot that Hurston was an anthropologist! This book (which I listened to as an audio book, highly recommended) contained stories and commentary from her fieldwork collecting African-American folklore in Florida and Louisiana.
Zora was a bit of an outsider even though she was born in the South and was an African American woman because she was educated more than many of those she spoke to, who had greater experiences in hard labor, and she was being funded for her research which afforded her better clothing and resources than perhaps many she met along the way.
It's almost like just as an important past time as a dance or African gambling games to get them through their days and they relish in being able to tell the stories.
This book was interesting at times due to Hurston's description the socio/historic nature of Southern localities where she collected her stories. The section on voodoo was the most interesting to me. The "lies" or folktales she collected were interesting, but they just didn't have much of a payoff in my opinion. I'm glad a read it.
I expected the same style from Mules and Men. As I understand it, she collected these stories as part of a project at Barnard over a period of at least 7 years and did not initially write after she collected the information,but made another trip back to her birthplace, though I would have trouble calling it her "home" since she seemed to carry that sense of home with her, perhaps a nomad at heart, she seemed to be able to set her tent anywhere and make a home of where she was.In this way it appears to me that Hurston, possessed of so great a gift of expression, found difficulty here.
She wrote them so beautifully in the vernacular of the people telling the stories that it feels like the reader is sitting right next to Hurston on the front porch of someone's home or at the Juke Joint.
There are stories of survival, triumph and failure as people come together to live their lives in communities.
The second part of the book was stories of Hurston's training as a "Hoodoo" (Voodoo) practitioner.
At the end, there is a catalogue of some of the ingredients that Hoodoo practitioners use to bring luck, love, end relationships, etc.
Zora Neale Hurston had a great interest in the African American storytelling and folklore traditions which were a prominent part of her childhood in Eatonville, Florida as well as across the entire American South.
At a time in history when the lives of African Americans weren't given much regard at all, Hurston (with assistance from a Charlotte Osgood Mason - a patron of many Harlem Renaissance authors) spent 1928-1932 visiting her hometown and the surrounding cities, as well as New Orleans in Louisiana.
If you have an interest in folklore and legend, especially in the African American/slavery traditions, then you should really spend time with MULES AND MEN.
the narrative is made up almost entirely of a travelogue of sorts, with our narrator going from town to town in florida documenting different variations of the oral tradition of these towns, story piled atop story interspersed with zora's own personal adventures getting to know the folks.
i kind of wished for more of an ending of sorts as the book kind of just stopped.
still, the jaunt to get there was fun at times, spooky and harrowing at others, but altogether immensely meaningful and even really educational pertaining to a time, place, and tradition which would have been lost to me had i not opened this book.
I'd like to try to find a book that's a bit more recent and that maybe has a bit more analysis because a lot of Mules and Men is just ZNH driving around Florida and transcribing people's stories without much commentary on the content of the tales, so there were moments where it would've been fun to hear someone smarter than me try to help the reader interpret some of these tales.
Of course, I think this is kind of the point of all the stories in the first place- they're very much tales from and about a specific people that help create internal solidarity and differentiate those who get it and those who don't.
Half travel memoir and half folklore catalogue, it's never boring and it really seems to give a sense of what things were like in the places she visited.
The second half is all about Hoodoo and takes place in New Orleans, and in place of stories she's recorded all sorts of spells practiced by the conjurers she studied under.
It's hard not to believe in some of the things she says she saw and heard of.In particular I want to highlight the book's ending, which is deeply strange and mysterious, and not at all how you expect either a collection of folklore or a travel memoir to end.
This is really two different books. The first book is stories or lies that [s. Hurston captured during the Great Depression. These are best to read one or two and set aside. Maybe even read outloud. While there were some I enjoyed this isn't something that I would normally read. The second half is about Voodoo or Hoodoo and Ms. Hurston's experiences learning it. This had more of a flow that I am used to reading and enjoyed it much more. Overall, I can appreciate this, but not something I would be eager to read more.
I found the tall tales difficult to read in succession and perhaps only interesting in an anthropological context, but the bit on hoodoo was wildly fascinating
Pioneering folklore and ethnography. Little analysis.
The more Zora Neale Hurston I read, the more she becomes a personal hero of mine.I really respect her work as a folklorist.
I'm upset that it's taken me this long to get around to reading more of her work.The first half of Mules and Men is a written narration of Zora's interactions with the people she was collecting the stories from, as well as the stories themselves.
The dialogue is all written in dialect, like Their Eyes Were Watching God - so that should be a good indicator of how well you can handle this book.The second half of the book documents Zora's investigation of hoodoo culture in New Orleans.
Zora Neale Hurston led the kind of adventurous life that allowed her to gather the stories of not only her own adventures, but also the folklore of those around her.
If Zora Neale Hurston weren't a wonderful writer, the stories and documentation of songs and voodoo recipes going on in these pages would still be very interesting, but the fact that she *can* write like her pen has a soul of its own makes this collection great.
I had read a short collection of Indian folk tales before this, and notice some similarities.
After going through this book, I find myself really wanting to read Zora's autobiography.
Zora Neale Hurston studied under the "father of anthropology," Franz Boas.
From there she travels to work camps down through the Everglades, then off to New Orleans to study voodoo.
Because of her personal connection to the area and many of her sources, she includes herself in the narrative, blending memoir with anthropology.
I read Their Eyes Were Watching God immediately after Mules and Men, and I really felt like the two go best together.
Janie Crawford's woes in Their Eyes Were Watching God have even greater impact in the historical and social context that Mules and Men establishes.
