https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297266.The_Psychoanalysis_of_Fire
With this book, Bachelard cements his reputation as an intellectual charlatan. Recklessly speculative, shockingly devoid of empirical evidence, and brazenly inaccurate. In other words, highly recommended.
Trying to specify a conclusion in his writing would be like trying to describe the shape of a flame (an easy simile but it's apt).
Using historical example he shows that this process is very much like the experience of old time alchemists who dreamed wildly while monkishly ensconced among their flames and their alembics, and took these wild dreams as objective scientific conclusions.
But I don't think Bachelard is disparaging these alchemists as he uses them as examplars.
I think he uses them as an extreme example of what happens inside each of us as we gaze upon all the living objects around us.
Bachelard makes the intriguing argument that one might analyze poetry in terms of which pre-scientific element—earth, air, fire or water—dominates in its imagery. His thesis is that our cosmologies contain subjective elements, reflected in metaphors, and that these subjective elements can be psychoanalyzed. In this respect, literary analysis is a psychoanalytic technique, and the metaphor is a kind of symptom (one finds similar suggestions in the work of French psychoanalyst Jacques Lacan).
Before I read this, I thought it wasn't possible to psychoanalyze fire. I mean, you're not exactly going to get it to free associate. Boy was I wrong.
النار بفكر وشكل آخر ، كفلسفة وإسطورة وعلم نفس ، كخُرفات وحلم يقضة و محسوسات ، أعتقد أن الترجمة التي لدي من قبل زينب الخضيري لم تكن موفقة كثيراً أو أن الكتاب غير مترابط بشكل دقيق في طرحه وأفكاره ، وكما قال الكاتب نفسه" هذا الكتاب لن يُضيف للقارئ شيئاً يُذكر كمعرفة ! "لكنهُ رُبما جعلنا نرى النار ونُدركها بتصور وفكر آخر غريب عنا رُبما كان مُبرراً في عصره وزمنه أكثر من الآن .،
3.5
موضوع هذا الكتاب هو التحليل النفسى للمعرفة الموضوعية، أو التحليل النفسى للمعرفة التى تتسم تجاوزا بسمة الموضوعية، بخصوص النار، فتصورات البشر الموضوعية عن النار فى العصور التى سماها الكاتب ب"عصور ما قبل العلم" إذا خضعت لهذا التحليل النفسى، يمكن ردّها إلى مجموعة من أحلام اليقظة، أو مجموعة من الحدوس القَبْلية فى اللا وعى، والتى تشكلت بذكريات وانطباعات جمالية من الطفولة، كمجوعة من العُقَد، مثل، عقدة "أنبادوقليس" : وهى عقدة ترجع لحدس جمالى جنسى بما يسمى ب"نداء المحرقة" أو الرغبة الممتزجة بحركة التلاشى السريعة للمشهد البصرى للنار.
وفى هذا الكتاب يُرجح الكاتب إن اكتشاف النار والتصورات البدائية عنها هى نتاج لحدوس جمالية تعاطفية ومندمجة مع الطبيعة، وليس مجرد نتاج لحاجة الإنسان للتدفئة والطهى.
I discovered this fascinating little book more or less by accident.
His philosophy of science is naturally very different from anything else I've read; while the A-A-A philosophers at the time were essentially concerned with normative issues of logic and epistemology, with how we "ought" to do science -- later with Kuhn and company it turned toward sociological and socio-political description -- Bachelard was concerned with psychological apects of scientific investigation, what he describes as "the psychoanalysis of objective knowledge." His point is that the scientists' theorizing is influenced by pre-scientific "complexes" derived from the experience of "reverie", which must be subjected to a form of "psychoanalysis" to be able to free oneself from these complexes and observe phenomena objectively.
Generally, I truly enjoy reading Gaston Bachelard.
He has a very poetic style with which he writes; but this book was perhaps one of the most frustrating books I've read - for the reason that there is nothing which even the Bachelard seems to want the reader to gain from having read this book.
It is a collection of various subjective meditations in which he often draws from various psychoanalytic and literary resources.
But as I read the book I kept asking myself what is the point of this, what is he ultimately trying to say, and I could not get it.
''La conquête du superflu donne une excitation spirituelle plus grande que la conquête du nécessaire. L'homme est une création du désir, non pas une création du besoin.'' (Gaston Bachelard dans ''La psychanalise du feu'' p. 38)C'est l'un des fragments dans ce livre que j'ai aimé le plus, qui renferme l'une des vérités les plus contéstées a présent, mais qui exprime à la fois le mieux l'essence du temps que nous vivons, celui de l'être contrôlé ou pas par l'instinct consumériste...
Bachelard changed my outlook on everything related to art. Highly recommended.
Difficult at times, then is as clear as fire itself. Surprising, infuriating, unforgettable.
Bastante complejo y de dificil lectura para mi. Si bien esperaba una obra de corte epistemológico me pareció demasiado críptico para mi gusto
e ae bola de fogoo calor tá de matar
How does one rectify the burning fires of hell and the consuming purification of the Holy Spirit?
This book places one in an arena where dueling thoughts about our understanding, contextual precepts and truths, and opined beliefs are interrogated.
The nature of language, an art in and of itself is deftly handled by Bachelard, who exploits the inherent weakness of poetry when trying to describe any event.
We seek to find greater clarity and clearer understanding by elaboration and eradication.
The duality of our nature is also espoused in other phenomena.
The chapter regarding purification and distillation is brilliant.
In point of fact a poetic work can hardly be unified except by a complex. If the complex is lacking, the work, cut off from its roots, no longer communicates with the unconscious. (19)Death in the flame is the least lonely of deaths. It is truly a cosmic death in which a whole universe is reduced to nothingness along with the thinker. The funeral pyre accompanies him in his passing. (19)
Um livro teórico simplesmente encantador. Inaugura a obra noturna do Bachelard brilhantemente. Na introdução, Bachelard alerta que leitor não aprenderá algo com a obra... modéstia pura. Aprendemos e muito com a leitura.
faut comprendre que le feu est pas seulement le feu perçu, que nos poumons font le même procédé, tout comme la rouille, même si avec des fréquences et une temporalité différente, c'est la psychanalyse du feu qui nous montre la limite de nos sens
not freud sitting down with heraclitus, sadly. just what is in the id of the polemos, anyways?
Un peu décue.. je préfère La poétique de l'espace
RE DUN DENT.
this is my favorite book in a long while. a "psychoanalysis of objective knowledge" which reveals the hilarity of so-called objectivity when it comes to something as common as fire. read it.
This is one of Gaston Bachelard's best (see my review of The Poetics of Space). Anything by Bachelard is profound and enriching.
Nice transition between the philosphy of science and aesthetics. Think alchemy.
