https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28449076-the-witches
We also learn a bit about life at the time.But despite the lengthy bibliography, the author makes sweeping generalizations that hurt her credibility; for instance, she claims the Salem witch trials were one of few occasions that women played a key role in American history and that after Salem, women “went back to being invisible, where they remained, historically speaking, until a different scourge encouraged them to raise their voices, with suffrage and Prohibition.” Women were invisible and had no effect on history in all of the 18th and 19th centuries?

There’s probably no event in American history that looms so large in proportion to its size and impact than the Salem Witch Trials of 1692-93.
Yet King Philip’s War is something you might hear about at bar trivia on Thursday night (“What is the bloodiest war, in proportion of population, in American history?”), while the Salem Witch Trials endure in popular culture.
Stacy Schiff has fun with this reality in her highly entertaining The Witches: Salem, 1692.
At night they slept like babies.In telling the story of Salem, which has been rendered in so many ways, Schiff has triple duty.
i'm still chipping away at this book, but sean of the house decided he wanted to read it, too, so there's been a bit of a tug-o-war going on, but as soon as he turns his back, it's MINE again!
It mocks me because it has won...The Salem Witch Trials are such an historic part of our country, and I've read numerous articles or viewed multiple TV shows or movies depicting this time period; however, this book fell short in capturing my attention.
You go several pages focusing on a narrative describing the facts and then you are dropped into an imagination of what someone thinks a witch is doing.
You're given so many facts to interpret followed by creative character descriptions that you have to keep readjusting your perspective to stay on track.I think this book needs to be handled differently for me to enjoy it.
From a period of time so fraught with scandal and religious ferocity, Stacy Schiff is able to construct a powerful and well-paced book that offers readers insight into the Salem Witch Trials of 1692.
Schiff paces her tome out effectively, trying to offer up varying perspectives of those who were brought to trial and their different accusations, though since much of the narrative focussed on Salem, the same characters are interspersed within, seeing as it is likely that the witches would all interact on some level.
The Salem witch trials is a fascinating subject, but I found this book to be a bit frustrating.
I had enjoyed Stacy Schiff's previous work, Cleopatra, and was excited when I heard she was researching the infamous witch hunt of 1692.
(There is a detailed list of everyone at the front of the book, which is a nice reference.)I would recommend this book to fans of history who don't mind doing some skimming during the dense parts.Opening Passage"In 1692 the Massachusetts Bay Colony executed fourteen women, five men, and two dogs for witchcraft.
Thus, the witches had to be ruthlessly eliminated from the population.Local authorities - prosecutors, judges, church ministers, and others - not only believed these ideas, they were often the main proponents.
The ongoing witch trials - not remotely fair by modern standards - resulted in 19 people being hanged, including Minister Burroughs - who maintained his innocence to the very end.
Salem authorities were apparently familiar with the Swedish witch hunt (in any case they mentioned Sweden a lot), and this may well have influenced their beliefs and actions.Like many people, I was somewhat acquainted with the Salem calamity from history classes in school.
During the first two chapters I found myself debating the validity of never quitting on a book; I just couldn't get into Schiff's writing style.
Unfortunately I found the book drifting back into the jumbled territory of the first two chapters more and more as it progressed.
I haven't read anything by Schiff before so I don't consider myself adequately versed in her writing style.
(An indigenous warrior as "the swarthy terrorist in the backyard," really?) It felt as if Schiff was more than happy to slip in and out of dramatic biographical ramblings instead of "keeping the plot" and giving us anything fresh on Salem and its people.
stacy shiff has won many awards for her previous biographies/history, so i was really looking forward to this book.
right from the very beginning, the writing was clunky and awkward, and never had any flow to it at all.and then she calmly describes women riding broomsticks as if it really happened.
she describes scenes like this as if they were historical fact.on top of this, the book is just downright boring.
i gave up after about 60 pages, but apparently it gets even worse later on when the trials are being described, with reams of documents being quoted verbatim.
i would heartily recommend that you NOT read this book.
I feel like I missed something reading this book.
I expected this book to be like pretty much all history books, with an introduction and a thesis, something the author was trying to prove.
I think I just have missed it, because I never got a glimpse of what the author was trying to say.
I don't see why anyone would be interested in every little thing that happened, every person that was accused.
" All the witchcraft and other paranormal things happened according to the writing in this book.
Isn't the theses the real reason for reading books like this?
You will only get this from the book if you take lots of notes the whole time, and are really good at extrapolating basic information from a tidal wave of minute, often useless, information.2.
This book was incredibly hard to follow.I actually think I might know less about the witch trials now than when I started the book.Probably the most frustrating part of this book was the style.
It’s unreal.Somebody please recommend me a book about the witch trials that has historical objectivity, analysis, and a clear narrative through-line.
I was ever so excited to start this one because I’d SO enjoyed Cleopatra—that one had me turning pages faster than any fiction thriller ever has and literally brought me to tears in the end—definitely the kind of roller coaster read that we all yearn for but wouldn’t dream of finding in a biography!
Honestly, the reading of this would have been much easier and more enjoyable if Schiff had organized the information differently—shorter chapters would have been an immensely helpful start—so that the reader could more easily remember, categorize and process all of the moving parts of the story in a way that worked more like a novel, as her previous work did.
Advanced Reading Copy Review Due to be published October 27, 2015Consider this a 3.5 star review.Just in time for Halloween comes this expansive history of the Salem witch trials, the back story and the fallout.
The constant threat of French and Indian attacks certainly helped to keep people continuously on edge.The list of people indexed at the beginning of the book lets us know that this will be a dense, sometimes impenetrable tale told from many sources and viewpoints.
I'm no expert on this period of American history but I have to imagine that this will be required reading for anyone interested in the witch trials, New England in the 17th century or even the psychology of mobs.
After being examined by a local doctor, the only possible explanation was that the girls conditions were likely caused by witchcraft.Afterwards the two girls would set the stones for the whole sorry saga when they named Parris household slave, Tituba and local women Sarah Good and Sarah Osborn as witches who had cast spells on them.
Only in October that year did the madness end when Governor William Phipps disbanded the courts, with prisoners released and those marked to be executed pardoned.Author Stacy Schiff does a good job in trying to explain why such a gruesome period could happen.
I have read a lot of books where the authors made a vague mention of the fact that court transcriptions were badly kept, and extremely confusing to piece together, but Stacy Schiff makes an emphatic point that it can difficult to piece together the tenor of the trials because of the crazy transcripts, and missing pieces of the puzzle.
Stacy Schiff references this book in her notes.) Because there was not a lot of information on the people most affected by being accused, or by being accusers, I was a little bored by this.
Received through FirstReads giveaway...In the past, I've found that accounts of the Salem witch trials all sound the same, with little life. This book contains so much detail, yet never becomes tedious, which is not an easy thing. It was nice to actually learn about the people as more than names, which is all that they are in most writing on this subject.
While I now know more about the writings of Increase and Cotton Mather - well-published ministers who can serve as primary sources even though they were nowhere near Salem at the time of the trials - I know exactly the same amount about how and why the witchcraft epidemic seized New England.The great success of this book is its depiction of Puritan life, and Schiff has a talent for atmosphere that permeates every page.
I'm ditching this for now. I thought it was fiction, my fault. Also, I just finished reading the excellent Go Down Together: The True, Untold Story of Bonnie and Clyde via audio, which was an exciting and informative non-fiction story. This, at least so far, is not. I may try it again at another time. DNF, no review or rating.
Jane Kamensky's review in the NYT says it all for me: https://www.nytimes.com/2015/11/01/bo... I teach a graduate class on early modern witchcraft trials, and there are many wonderful books on the topic. This is not one of them.
As I said, it just made the book very dry and I got pretty bored while reading.The ending has Salem in the modern era still not liking to talk about what happened before (Schiff mentions that Arthur Miller was rebuffed when going to the area to research his play "The Crucible") but has embraced witches as a mascot for the high school and has experienced a huge amount of tourism around Halloween.
I will say that I wish that Schiff had included more pictures of things in modern Salem such as the witch's mascot, people celebrating Halloween, etc.
I found the beginning half of this book to be very interesting, especially since there's frequent mention of the contentiousness of the young teenage and pre-teen girls in Salem, 1692 - in the court records as accusers and as suspects.
Since a pre-teen girl just happened to be running around my house, being periodically contentious I came away from reading this wondering how on earth the entire colony ending up procreating when this contentiousness seemed to be cause enough to cry "Witch!" The beginning of the last half of this book includes a bit of a repeat of already visited scenarios.
A special 6-second video review: https://vine.co/v/e3zrDvxVQE7
Thorough non-fiction detailing the Salem Witch Trials of 1692 and the time period and society right before and after.
I liked this book, and I feel like I have a complete knowledge of what is out there historically on the subject.
I would recommend it to those wanting to know more about the Salem Witch Trials.
I would like to have a copy in my personal library to reference.
I've long read/researched about the Trials (since high school and that was a long time ago!
:)) I also enjoy reading historical fiction on this subject.
It makes a great companion to the fictional reading!
it's meandering, heavily worded, superfluous style turned me off almost immediately. it's not clearly written at all and is a poor source of education on this topic. after 20 pages of this book, I feel like I know less than I did before. it's a shame that her style of writing gets in the way so bad. this book is probably great in its own way due to how much research was done. her writing style completely throws me off, especially since English isn't my first language. I don't think I'll try this one again.
I'm curious about this book albeit a little leery. My 9x great grandmother and her sister died when people of Salem started making up their own version of the truth. and I'm not sure I want to see them put through it again.
Gone were the days of spectral evidence (as used in the Salem trials) but people could still be shamed or judged based on the belief that they had something to do with the devil or they were witches.
Knowledge can be everything, when it is used for good and to open minds instead of closing them like so many well-educated men acting as jurors and consultants in the trials did.As for the girls, many historians have tried to figure out what ailed them.
And that is the ultimate lesson of this book and the Salem Witch Trials: when belief triumphs over reason.
I just read Harvard history professor Jane Kamensky's damning review of "The Witches" in the Oct.27, 2015 NYT Sunday Book Review.
Kamensky calls it a "glib, compendious and often maddening account" in which Schiff "goes out of her way to make Salem intelligible to a contemporary reader, often by way of analogies, many of them forced, some offensive" and that "much of this effort to drag the past into the present amounts to pandering, earnest if schlocky.
Unfortunately, writes Kamensky, "For all [Schiff's] talents in sketching the who, what, where and when of the Salem trials, this vexed question of why is one that Schiff simply cannot manage.
The religious extremists who founded, and fought fiercely to protect the bodies and souls of, Salem Village must have felt overwhelmed by the sheer number of things that were out of their control: the weather, specifically an endless, pitiless winter; the native “savages” whose raids on settlements up and down the coast were as regular as the blizzards and occasionally as destructive; and the moods of teenagers, for which no amount of Bible study could account.One can perhaps even understand how village elders could, under those circumstances, make a desperate—if foolhardy and murderous—attempt to exercise dominion at least over the spiritual well-being of their citizens.
You are depriving yourself of tremendous pleasure by not reading The Witches at this very moment.It is a stupendously amazing account of the Salem witch trials, and it provides, in a wondrously delightful fashion, the intricate details of the religious, social, historical, and political factors that shaped the trials.
Stacy Schiff, from the very first page, enchants the reader with a literary witchcraft that excels any magic worked by the alleged witches in Salem in 1692.
Read The Witches.Would you like to read the definitive history of the Salem witch trials?
Read The Witches.Do you like books?
