https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126584.Mindhunter
WARNING: LOOK AWAY IF YOU DON'T LIKE FBI AGENTS/SERIAL KILLERS/SUBURBAN WHITE GIRLS TALKING ABOUT FBI AGENTS/SERIAL KILLERS. I bought an obscene amount of romance novels this summer. How many have I read? Precisely none!  My love affair with certain genres, romance in particular, has diminished over the years. I've outgrown it, so to speak. I can't believe it's come to this, but according to my friend, that just means I need to broaden my horizons.What have I got left? True crime, apparently. Fo
Just doing his own thing, hating serial killers, fighting crime and saving lives.
Maybe his mother's maiden name had something to do with it – Holmes!Mr. Douglas has so many interesting stories, I don't know where to begin.
(Ed Kemper with the fbi agents Ressler and Douglas)  "I just wondered how it would feel to shoot Grandma."  Interests: long walks on the beach, cocktails, shooting grandma, cruising the streets and highways in his car and picking up young female hitchhikers.
John himself admitted that.(The Green River Killer has since been apprehended, and committed to prison).Several scenes in Silence of the Lambs were filmed at the FBI Academy in Quantico.
So I guess it’s a good thing he mostly talks about rape and murder?And when I say “John Douglas,” by the way, I mean John Douglas or his co/ghost writer, because who knows who wrote what.
All I know is when this book talks about crime, it’s focused and intelligent and compassionate.
And when it’s talking about anything else – the FBI, his home life, whatever -- I want to go hide under something to get away from the whining and the score-settling and the endless, endless, endless ego-wanking.
The book mixes his war stories of cases he worked along with a fair amount of bitching about the criminal justice system, and a little griping about he sometimes felt ill-treated by the FBI.
He sprinkles his story with tidbits of his meetings with serial killers, and brags a fair amount about how accurate his profiles turned out to be for several cases he worked.
Douglas and fellow profiler Robert Ressler have been turned into fictionalized characters, but the killers and their crimes are historically accurate.
With 25 years of experience and having hunted some of the most notorious criminals of our time, Douglas has a unique insight into the minds of serial killers.True crime is my thing.
I mean, I guess the rest of the book is semi-chronological, but he will often discuss similar crimes together.This brings me to John Douglas himself.
I discussed this with Matthew and he said about how he read somewhere that often these kinds of people who spend a lot of time in the company of serial killers often begin to take on some of their traits – so perhaps this helps explain his arrogance.

the mindhunter tv show on netflix has literally both made and ruined my lifei have so much uni work but all i can do is watch netflixlisten buzzfeed unsolves: true crime JUST ended and mindhunter comes into my life? its like the universe is enabling my true crime interestsnaturally i have to further destroy my life and read the book
A Heads Up for the New Netflix Series, Mindhunter * * * * * Spoiler Free-Update- Netflix picked up this series and it looks like a possible November 2018 date for Season 2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~I am always looking for something to catch my interest...
learning and making mistakes but also new insights to how these killers came about.This series is not the flash/ bam, lots of excitement genre...
one, Holden Ford played by Jonathan Goff , who is feeling his way and knows from his gut, there is something to this researching and talking to these criminals like people...
Think Like One and Get ThemWhat's that "thing" that thinks like a criminal, walks like a criminal, talks like a criminal, but doesn't act like a criminal (hopefully)???????????????????????????????????????????????It's an FBI Criminal Profiler, what else?!... ;)GREAT BOOK :)P.S.: as you all noticed, the "walk like a criminal" and "talk like a criminal" were perfectly superfluous and irrelevant sentences, but they must be there for flavour and make the guessing game slightly challenging ;) :)
I purchased this book recently having read the rave reviews received for the series of the same name on Netflix.
I am an avid thriller reader and fascinated by most things related to crime so found this account by John Edward Douglas who is a former United States Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) agent and one of the first criminal profilers a very informative read.
He recounts some of the cases he has dealt with, many of which are house old names such as Charles Manson and Ted Bundy and gives fascinating insights into the mind of a serial killer.I found the book actually got better the more I read and I am now looking forward to watching the TV Series.
And this book was similar in that it gave me everything I hoped I'd get out of that class in sixth form.
It gives a broad insight into what makes a criminal behave the way they do, and how they'll behave after the crimes.
As he describes himself, John Douglas is like a modern day Sherlock Holmes - taking minute details, and insignificant findings, to build a profile on what makes the mind tick.
John Douglas is clearly a deeply intelligent, insightful man.
It's also a little dated in its discussions of the BTK and Green River Killers.
And you could use that valuable information to get near enough to help him burn in his own flames, or, if you prefer a more succint, concise sentence, you'll have all it takes for a quite functional setup.So the question is, how can you start thinking like a criminal, without being one?And the answer is: you'll have to learn how to do it!Where?How?From Whom?....The first criminal profilers belong to fiction.So I suggest you to start with the full collection of Auguste Dupin stories and later on, part to the legendary Sherlock Holmes.Edgar Alan Poe and Sir Arthur Connan Doyle, were reality creators.
John Douglas relates in an almost casual, understated style his lifelong hunt for serial killers, kidnappers and rapists.
He interviewed and profiled such serial killers as Ed Kemper, Richard Speck, Charles Manson, Son of Sam, John Wayne Gacy and Ted Bundy.
This is the reference book for the TV show, Mindhunter, brought to television by David Fincher, the director of Seven, Gone Girl, Zodiac and The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo.
The show is excellent too, and this book is a great read for any serious fans of crime novels and detective stories.
One of my best books of 2017.
Later, when I regularly worked on murder trials in which insanity was used as a defense, I already knew from my own experience that the mere fact that someone acts like a maniac does not necessarily mean he doesn’t know exactly what he’s doing.In 1962, we were playing Wantagh High for the Thorpe Award, the trophy for the best high school football team on Long Island.
The priest seems like a nice guy, but Pam has told me St. Rita’s is a strict, traditional church and he’s uncomfortable around me, maybe because I’m not Catholic; I’m not sure.

This is probably the true crime novel of all true crime novels, the one every fan of this genre should add to the top of their reading list. Mindhunter covers the story of several infamous criminals from "The Killer Clown" (John Wayne Gacy), to the pseudohippie Charles Manson. It was detailed, well-written and it shows how this crime until brought these criminals and many more to justice.
But when the FBI moved the idea from a vague 'voodoo' kind of input to an actual crime solving tool, things began to gel into a fantastic weapon against killers/rapists/etc.Concise writing made the book easy to read, and comprehend.
I'm a true crime junkie, so, I was interested in reading the many excerpts from specific crimes that John had an active role in solving, or at least trying to solve.
Some of the murders were solved after this book was first published, such as the BTK murders, and I read elsewhere that the updated editions include that information.3 Stars = I liked the book.
One of those who took that very interest to the extreme was former FBI agent and criminal profiler John Edward Douglas.
His conversations would provide an unsettling look into the minds of evil and why they did what they did.
While the book does not stay away from some of my banes of non-fiction such repeating oneself and telling us all how great you are, for the most part, this is an absorbing look at criminals and those whose jobs it is to get in their heads and identify them.
O meu problema com a narrativa começou quando ele precisava, em todo caso citado, falar do quão bom ele é (e de como ele mudou a história do FBI), srsly, qual a necessidade de afirmar e REAFIRMAR isso durante boa parte do livro?
Essa autopromoção cansou muito, o que me levou a arrastar a leitura por um tempo.Segundo, eu não só discordo da opinião dele sobre jovens assassinos como também me admiro por uma pessoa que aparentemente entende tanto desse universo, pensar de forma tão sucinta e superficial: todos os assassinos são monstros por natureza.
John Douglas e seu colega Robert Ressler foram as pedras fundamentais da análise comportamental como ferramenta de investigação do FBI e, por esse pioneirismo, a leitura é válida, mas é claro que outros livros, filmes e séries já abordaram o tema em mais detalhes após a publicação dessa obra (original de 1995). Recomendado pra quem curte o tema e está começando a ler mais sobre o assunto, e também pra quem quer um complemento da série da Netflix.
Their aim was to help local police in states all over America profile and prevent serious crime and often repeat crimes.Profiling if you don't know is "the recording and analysis of a person's psychological and behavioural characteristics, so as to assess or predict their capabilities in a certain sphere or to assist in identifying categories of people." - It's basically the opposite of psychotherapy.
John Douglas was even consulted on the Yorkshire Ripper case ere in the UK.So John and his colleague interview, Ed Kemper, Charles Manson to name a couple and started building profiles of killers specifically SERIAL KILLERS.
Some unbelievable people.What this book does though is help you understand “why?”, which is a very important question.
I must say, this book is a mixed bag.
The story of the development of criminal profiling is certainly an interesting one, but I don't believe that Mr. Douglas deserves quite as much credit as he is willing to give himself.
He also freely characterizes the killers in this book as monsters.
Having worked with a number of this kind of person, I tend to see them more as broken human beings who deserve to be punished.
The "monster" epithet implies that society has no responsibility in the way these killers turned out.
As a fan of criminal behaviour studies and of the literature surrounding it (including Silence of the Lands and Criminal Minds), this was a fascinating read for me. I did feel like it read as a bit boastful but if I had set the department up then maybe I would boast about it :)I want to know when this type of profiling DOESN'T work, but also more modern cases. Sequel please :)
John Douglas has one hell of an ego on him that is for sure ! He loves to take a lot of credit that is due a different person. Same goes for all of his other books. Usually some good stuff in his books ,but you have to wade through the ocean of bullshit to get to it.
This review and others can be found on BW Book Reviews.I think a fun fact about me is that the first time I ever contemplated being a psychologist (of any type, too) was when I started getting into serial killers.
(Link here.) I was impressed with how he covered why profiling is so cool and captures our minds — look at the popularity of shows like Criminal Minds and Mindhunter, the latter based off of Douglas’ life and work — and why it’s just wrong.Profiling takes highly unstable factors and pretends that their stable.
I liked this book. John Douglas was one of the original profilers in the FBI and spent a lot of time interviewing these criminals and studying them. As well as getting gravely ill while working on the Green River Case. I think it would be really hard to separate from the evil they see.
Quando John Douglas quis trabalhar a mente humana dos criminosos, de forma a estruturar uma analise detalhada e conseguir apanhar os assassinos antes de expandirem o terror, não teve o trabalho facilitado.
Mas Douglas sabia como fazer cada um deles escorregar nas próprias palavras, entendia cada detalhe e acabava por ter bastante sucesso na resolução dos crimes.O que mais me impressionou foram os padrões, os traumas de infância, a forma como os serial killers se relacionavam com a mãe.
Optei por não focar esta opinião em nenhum caso em particular, mas os maiores crimes da história são relatados ao detalhe neste livro.
This book tells of his life and how he came to be the man that would one day be the inspiration for Jack Crawford in "Silence of the Lambs".
John had been stressed about all the cases he had been working on in the FBI.
A man that was crippled was able to overcome on a great disability because he believed that people really did believe he did good work and he did it in a month.
Also, anyone who wants to study criminal psychology would also enjoy this because John Douglas was an FBI profiler; he talks about the mindset of serial killers and regular offenders throughout the book.
An interesting autobiographical type book detailing the authors career in the then new speciality of criminal profiling.
This was an intriguing and detailed read as the author examines how profiling is developed and used to study the most depraved crimes.
Notes are made of more notorious crimes and criminals and many more that are less well known but equally important nonetheless.Much of the writing is technical but still relatively easy to digest.
As a reader from the UK, I found it particularly interesting how the FBIs profiling department developed and came to be.
Drawing on his experiences of psychology, psychiatry and criminal behaviours, this was an enjoyable read for those interested in the serial offender phenomenon.
As primeiras páginas são uma seca,focando-se demasiado na vida pessoal do autor. A partir do momento em que conhecemos os casos, os assassinos, como foram apanhados e a contribuição que deram ao FBI o livro melhora imenso
If, on the other hand, you're looking for a straightforward presentation of serial offender types and example cases, you're going to want to skip this one.Douglas clearly fancies himself a bit of a storyteller, but he lacks any sense of drama or poetry that might make the book more readable.
In a book full of this many names - names of offenders, names of victims, names of FBI profilers, names of cops - something like, "the Shawcross case I mentioned in chapter four," is going to lose the reader.
