https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/360992.The_Diary_of_Mattie_Spenser
I remember my grandparents talking about marriage - these folks were your salt of the earth farm type folks.
They'd say of marriage - What's love got to do with it?
They'd tell me that marriage was WORK, WORK, WORK.
They'd tell me that marriage was about giving - you feel like you give 70% but only get 30% in return.
Though they were practical people and didn't like fuss - I know they had their own love story - much of it not appararent to me observing them.
Mattie's story was much different than my grandparents, but something struck a chord in me as I read this book.
The story read very easily and I enjoyed it for the most part, particularly the character of Mattie Spenser.
Where the book fell short for me is in the abrupt ending.
After building the story to the crisis point in Mattie's marriage, the author leaves it to our imaginations to figure out how it all worked out in the end.
In other words, what was the point of telling the story?
It would have taken great strength of character in a world where women were at a perpetual disadvantage.
That's the story I was hoping for.
When Luke asked Mattie to be his wife, he needed a yes or no right then and there, as he was leaving Iowa for the Colorado Territory.
I'm glad you're not the type to attract men like bees around the honey." She happily accepts, as Luke is quite a catch--smart, handsome, determined-- but also somewhat secretive, moody, and possibly still feeling something for his previous love interest, a horrible flirt named Persia.Mattie is so strong and realistic about her expectations.
I, like many Midwesterners, had ancestors who homesteaded in Nebraska and Colorado, so this history, even if fiction, was fascinating to me.
26 years ago my new husband and I loaded all our possessions in our " wagon" ie the Hertz rental truck and headed to a new land (Florida) to start our married life togerher.
This book is about Mattie who heads west to the Colorado territory with her new husband Luke to start her married life.
The book tells of the trials and tribulations of traveling to and living out west.It is written as her private diary which is found in present time by her Matties grandaughter's neighbor who is now very old herself.A very good read from beginning to end.
The Diary of Mattie Spenser was a wonderful, engaging story that not only reinforced my great appreciation for my freedoms and liberties as a woman, but also gave me a new outlook on what it means to have a successful marriage.This is a work of fiction set in the format of diary entries.
T. which set my teeth on edge as well as made me enjoy my leisurely hot shower even more.More than just a story of grit and hard work, The Diary of Mattie Spenser is a story about choices, about what really makes a good marriage, and how the events in our life and the choices we make regarding them really shape what our lives become.
4.5 Even though it was heart wrenching I loved most everything about this book. The story, the format used to tell it and Mattie herself. Fantastic writing. I will look at this author again.
So often the journals and stories of pioneer women are softened and the difficult times glossed over in favor of espousing faith and hope.
While there is nothing wrong with this sentiment, it is refreshing to see that Sandra Dallas hasn't glossed over every difficulty of frontier life, but has still managed to show that faith and hope were an everyday occurrence, and that people managed to form churches and meet together.At times the novel is raw and uncomfortable.
There is no softening of the difficulties and hard times that these frontier women suffered.
Sandra Dallas combined both a wonderful plot in a fascinating time period with the unique character of Maggie Spenser.
I usually do not like books in a diary or letter format b/c there is so much skipping around and it feels like the flow is interrupted.
And I sometimes feel that I am missing out on some aspect of the novel, such as setting or other character's personalities.
Mattie is a wonderful character.
And this book made me feel sad during the hard times of sickness, death, and betrayal.
Despite such hard times, this novel has a happy tone.
3.5 STARS
I was not excited to read this book....but oh, I am so glad I did!
This really was a great love story!
Mattie sets out with her new husband to start a life in the Colorado Territory.
Frontier life in the 1800's doesn't sound like an appealing read, but I need to remember to give things a chance.
I was quickly swept up in the trials and bits of happiness that graced Mattie's life.
She always makes for a pleasant read.
Another great frontier book that I was skeptical about was "These Is My Words".
Never judge a book by the genre!
This book kept me up late reading because I felt I had to know what happened next, and it's diary format made it easy to just keep on keeping on.
She doesn't know him that well, and the four years this diary covers teach her a great deal about marriage, love, hardship, and endurance.
In the early days of her marriage, she is very naive.Though this book was fictional, it would be easy to believe it really was written by a pioneer woman.
The story comes about when a lady's next door neighbor Hazel,age 94, gives her the diary that belonged to her grandmother, Mattie McCauley Spenser, Mattie lived in Iowa, was of marriageable age (22) and was being courted by a man she really didn't want to marry.
Mattie quickly says yes and in a few days Luke and Mattie are headed to a new home in the Colorado terratory....the Eastern part of it.
Life in the Colorado terratory is not easy, even building a home is hard.
THE DIARY OF MATTIE SPENSER is unlike any book I have read in quite a while.
The story takes place over the first three years of their marriage.
At times I found myself hesitant to go forward because I didn't know if I wanted to find out what my gut was telling me just happened.
Still, I did.Ms. Dallas did such a good job that I wondered at times if Mattie's adventures really did happen.
By the end of the book I was drained but their story will stay with me for a long time.
A surprisingly pleasant yet heart-wrenching story of a young newly married woman starting her life in Colorado in the 1800s. I've always enjoyed stories set during this era, especially in diary format since it adds a bit of realism to it. While I didn't love it as much as "These Is My Words", it was still an entertaining read I found myself losing sleep over from not being able to put it down.
A woman purportedly finds a diary tucked into an elderly neighbor's ancestor's trunk.
She decides to decipher and transcribe the diary, and the story she uncovers is a fascinating description of life on the American prairie.
Some of the adventures, like the accounts of the wagon train and sad lives and deaths of neighbors, are remarkable.
The undercurrent of her life with her husband is a heart-breaking story.
If you liked Jim Fergus's amazing "One Thousand White Women", you may like this somewhat different look at the settling of the prairies.(OOPS.
I JUST REALIZED I SPELLED SPENSER WRONG, SO NO WONDER I COULDN'T FIND THIS BOOK.
3.5 Liked the character of Mattie very much, she was spunky and tough, yet really just wanted someone to love her. Life for these early settler was unbelievably hard, the Indians, the lack of resources, but I think mostly it was all the babies dying and the illnesses that had no cure that would have gotten to me the most. They had so little control over anything. Liked that at the end the reader does find out what happened with Mattie and Luke and that Mattie finally seemed to find happiness of a sort.
This book grabbed me and wouldn't let go!
Interestingly, it had all of the trials and tribulations one expects in modern everyday life, and so much more!
Those difficulties truly kept me hurrying through my day so that I may get back to the book to see what was in store for them next!Mattie marries Luke Spenser and leaves home and family to travel to Colorado where Luke has secured land to farm.
This is her account of their life together.
I don't want to get into the particulars of the book but it really keeps your interest!
Ever since discovering Across The Wide And Lonesome Prairie: The Oregon Trail Diary Of Hattie Campbell in third grade (and consequently the Dear America series) I've been a fan of historical fiction written in diary form.
This book is right up there with These Is My Words: The Diary of Sarah Agnes Prine, 1881-1901 in quality.
(Though I think I enjoyed the latter slightly more.) In any case, I thought this book was well written and the voice seemed appropriate for the time.
I highly recommend this to fans of historical fiction.
I just cringed reading this book because it repeatedly discussed abortion in a positive light: once 
While I liked the main character and mostly liked the descriptions and the writing, I found the book really problematic.
I know this is supposed to be a 19th century woman's diary, and so maybe the author was trying to reflect how her thinking might have been, but American Indians are almost all portrayed extremely negatively, I mean really negatively (the only good one quickly winds up dead of course, going along with that whole "only good Indian is a dead Indian" mantra).
Additionally, the villain of the book is the only handicapped character, who is a sociopath who rapes, murders, steals, and brutalizes women.
I just found it so distasteful, that I really could not enjoy the book.
I was truly let down by this book. I love historical fiction and I liked the idea of this book written in the form of journal entries. However, these were obviously contrived and nowhere near written as a true pioneer woman would have written them. In the prologue, the author mentions how dear paper was and that Mattie used crosshatching to conserve paper. Yet, Mattie's journal entries were 7-8 pages long!? The flavor of the book is that of a modern day soap opera with the guise of being a prairie woman's journal. Please don't insult my intelligence Ms. Dallas.
A story of the life of Mattie Spencer from May 9, 1865 - Jan 12,1869 , as written from her journal before Colorado was a state. She and her husband Luke had traveled from Iowa in a covered wagon, They had rough times..Indian attacks, rattlesnakes in their sod house. Three births; one still born, one hours old and their son three years old from scarlet fever. The best part of the story is when Mattie's great grandaughter gave the journal to her neighbor, who in turn wrote the book, sharing these experiences with all.
I have this thing for books about pioneer woman, it must have started with Laura Ingalls when I was 8 years old.
Anyways, I really loved this story.
Although it is fictional I think it rings true of the hardships these amazing woman encountered in their daily lives.
I can't imagine enduring indian attacks, rattle snakes, sleeping on dirt and having my babies with no help.
Although I was hoping for a different ending to this story I guess I am happy that "Husband" and "Wife" (as Mattie called herself and Luke) worked it out and had a happy life together.
.. my first book of the hew year!! :)It was good. A quick read that made me really appreciate my life. Being an early settler of the West, would have been the worst thing ever!Although the book is not a true diary, it is a good example of how we can suffer at the hand of our own decisions, in how much of Matties whole life was defined by a few misconceptions,and hasty choices she made during those few years.
This is. Delightful bookCapturing the hardships joys and challenges of pioneering life on the Colorado Prairies in the eighteen hundreds. Mattie captures her life,loves and loss in her beautifully written secret diary hidden in her wedding trunk. It was rescued in modern times and forms the basis of this book. Very much recommended.
I zipped right through this book. Mattie and I could totally hang out. If we were homesteading together we would be best friends. This is a book about keeping it together, through thick and thin, mostly thin. Dallas has a friendly approachable writing style and I highly recommend this book.
TMI is what I wanted to say after reading this. Also - left you hanging - did she really love her husband....how did they work things out? Not my favorite but I do have lots of friends how liked it.
Good book, and I liked the history, but there were some aspects of Mattie that I found bothersome. The character is very much a product of her times, but after a while, I really wanted her to stand up for herself.
I keep thinking about this book. Frontier life is so interesting to me. It illustrates the power of women, even in a very patriarchal time and society. The hardships they bear, often with a smile, are mind blowing to me. These women are unsung superheroes.
This was a really touching account of a pioneer woman. It gave me much more appreciation and insight into what these women went through during that time.
