https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12474.The_Armies_of_the_Night

The book is Mailer’s story of the October 1967 March on the Pentagon.Mailer was a hoot!
While the first three-quarters of The Armies of the Night is the story of the October 1967 March on the Pentagon told in the third person from the experience of author Norman Mailer and is styled at “History as a Novel”, the final quarter takes a broad view of the same event styled as the “Novel as History.” This is the story of a 1967 event told contemporaneously that received a lot of media attention when it happened and when the story was published.
I believe I will take a page from Mr. Christopher Hitchens, who did NOT have a problem blasting Jerry Falwell on national television while the corpse was still warm (http://www.crooksandliars.com/2007/05...), and make some honest yet unflattering remarks about Mailer, whose goodreads update feed currently shows him reading The Handbook for the Recently Deceased.This book is kind of a 'literary' atrocity.
It is everything I would expect from an overblown superfamous ego, and nothing that I would expect should win the goddamned National Book Award AND the Pulitzer!!Two hundred and fifty pages of Mailer on Mailer.

A obra que melhor represente a História da EUA do século XXI.
Através deste livro pode compreender melhor a guerra no Vietname.
Uma guerra sangrenta que dividiu os americanos.É uma história diferente por misturar o texto jornalístico com o texto ficcional.
O herói Mailer organiza uma marcha ao Pentágono que pretende acabar com as injustiças, e mostrar o que as intervenções violentas do exército.
Inspira-se na marcha dos negros.
E demonstra a violência e o "matança" daquela horrível guerra.
No fim surge um mito de uma nação que fez-se grande através de muitos sacrifícios, nem todos eles merecidos.
The Mailer character is unappealing in most ways, save an occasional kindness (playing games with the kids in jail) and the fact that his every repugnance is a meta-act of elaborate, tongue-in-cheek self-abasement.The "novel as history" is followed by 50 pages of "history as novel," a comparatively dry review of the various accounts of the March on the Pentagon, the fractious liberals, the celebration and defiling of conservative power, all told from a dozen different, mutually incompatible perspectives.
This book made me hate Norman Mailer.
I wished him dead after reading this book.
After I read this book, I picked up the memoir written by Mailer's second wife Adele, the one he stabbed.(Yeah, did you know Mailer actually stabbed one of his wives?
One gets the impression he wanted to emulate Gary Gilmore, but while Gary was willing to accept death for his crimes, old Norman was getting weepy at the thought of spending a week in jail.)This book is full of references to people of the late 60s that the current generation is not going to relate to.
It's a book of its time that doesn't hold up today.
Early example of the "New Journalism" which Norman Mailer helped pioneer...and not an especially good one.
The book is crippled, however, by Mailer's overweening narcissism, reflecting in third person on his authorial reputation, his antiwar credentials and comparing his wise viewpoint with the often misleading accounts of newspapers and the Mainstream Media.
Worth reading, perhaps, for the bits of vivid imagery Mailer conjures up, but also filled with that author's most obnoxious shortcomings.
Brilliant. Immediate, vivid, engaging, fly-on-the-wall account of some serious world/historical shit hitting the american fan. A classic, and deservedly so. Interesting: Mailer said that he had been surprised when he came upon the refer-to-yourself-in-the-3rd-person voice that was the essential narrative innovation of the book. He said that when he was a student at Harvard he'd been assigned "The Autobiography of Henry Adams" and thought the third person referential move was odd and put the book aside and hadn't thought about it for years...
I can easily see how Mailer’s book has been compared to Truman Capote’s In Cold Blood, which was the first non-fiction novel, whereas Mailer has created here an early example of historical and fictional journalism; which seems to combine novel style with reporting.
The book reads as split between two sections, in "History As A Novel," Mailer uses the third person to describe his own experience participating in a anti-Vietnam war rally.
By using the third person Mailer himself becomes just as much a part of the subject matter, as the march he participated in.
Mailer's incredible intellect shines white hot here. Echoes of this time reverberate today through the Occupy and Black Lives Matter movements. So sad that we really haven't progressed in this nation from the barbarism described within these pages.
Love this book - my favorite quote comes from it -- of the media (he was thinking mainly of the press, of course) --- as "silent assassins of the republic"
The first 3/4 of the book is a kind of eye-witness account of Norman's experience over 4 days before and after the march on the Pentagon to protest the Vietnam war.
Interesting guys but you wouldn't want to live with them.I did enjoy his telling of the day and the events he witnessed.
As this was pre cellphone era it was unnerving to be at such a large event and have no way to know what is going on or where your friends are, not to mention videoing the police brutality.
He knows that as a prominent leftist writer it is his "duty" to make an "impression".His arrest is an interesting and intriguing section.
Reads like it was written by a kid who wants to tell everybody how cool he is but every now and then he catches himself sounding desperate for attention, so he switches to being self-deprecating. Not impressed.
Rather than strict chronology, non-linear context and rat-a-tat punctuation.Which makes this prime piece of New Journalism (Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award winner) curious, in that it's pure chronology in the first part (History as a Novel), an intricate and often painstaking dissection of a single moment as seen by the writer from where he stood.
This makes the book both highly dated and yet essentially timeless in a way that straighter narratives from the time (Jimmy Breslin gets hauled out often in this book as a reactionary apologist) could not hope to have.Check out the drunken Mailer on The Firing Line after the book's release, William F.
The start of Norman Mailer’s Magnum Opus, The Armies of the Night, is one of complete explanation of what happened the fateful afternoon of October 27th, 1967, the day the most important anti-war really occurred.
The second half of the book is a complete history of the events the events that happened that day, but this time from the press and from accounts of people that attended.Norman Mailer was a writer and a journalist born in 1923 who was credited for the creation of the literary genre New Journalism, along with Truman Capote.
This experience led him to write The Armies of the Night.This book has fascinated me with the many great adventures of the Yippies.
Anyone who wants to understand the fraught history of the Left in America has to include this wild, ironic, and visionary title on her or his reading list...A few quotes:On the change of mood in the hippie movement, over the course of the 1960s, from bright and happy, to dark and tormented:“A generation of the American young had come along different from five previous generations of the middle class.
or can she, poor giant, tormented lovely girl, deliver a babe of a new world brave and tender, artful and wild?
Look, the fact that I wanted to throw this book against the wall on at least five separate occasions probably means it has some merit because at least it elicited some sort of emotion.
I respect the fact that Mailer can create a character I dislike so much (himself).
Also, Mailer was on Gilmore Girls, so I really tried to like this.
This is not in any way an articulate review, and I won't bother with one because I don't want to think about this book much longer than I have to.
I'm sure there are reasons to like it, but I really don't.
Written in third person, describing a weekend in Washington protesting the Vietnam war, Mailer pokes fun at himself, and his ego, and his other eccentricities on nearly every page.
Kennedy, there had not been a President of the United States nor even a candidate since the Second World War whom Mailer secretly considered more suitable than himself...
Lots of neat literary moments, his complex friendship wth Robert Lowell, his (and others) presence as literary icons which at the time lent them significant political power (yet now seems to be going the opposite way and non politicians speaking about politics is generally derided in our conservative society).If what the United States is doing in Vietnam* is right, what is there left to be called wrong?
I also thought that since Mailer was a novelist that this "History" might be more compelling than something written by a dry, academic historian.
For me, Mailer did not make a particularly good protagonist because I didn't really care for him and therefore was not all that concerned about what would happen to him as a result of participating in the October 1967 March on the Pentagon in protest of the war in Vietnam.Some of it is well-written; I especially liked the way Mailer detailed just how fragmented the anti-war movement was, with the various groups and their sometimes conflicting agendas.
Explodes the myth that the 60s anti-war movement was unified.
A record of Norman Mailer's involvement in the anti-Vietnam-war protests written by him in the third person about him.
I found this book full of false modesty (he even uses the word modest when talking about himself.
Who calls themselves modest?) and self aggrandizement.
He describes himself as almost a superhero taking on the giant war machine.
He also says things like "the soldiers can't pluck our hippy women" so the "our" there is the hippy men which makes the protest just between the hippy men and the soldier men which seems so patriarchal.
It was fine.
Overall though, it felt a bit too much like a chore for me to finish.
Maybe it was just not what I was in the mood for, most likely it had much to do with the fact that I needed to look up people and places every ten minutes.
That's totally all my fault for being a bit dumb when it comes to history.
However, I did not feel very "moved", in any way, and I found that disappointing.
Mailer does this thing where he uses double negatives, often, like, way too often for my taste.
the brief journey of an egomaniac who here just flaunts his lame-o remonstrance role (which he himself derides throughout, creatively).
after he gets carted off to jail, the second half of the book really makes you miss the ass's cocky--albeit lively--presence.
the style gets dry and you think "awww where's norman??" even though you wanted to hate him at many points when he was around.
you don't care about vietnam half as much as about mailer, which is strange but interesting at points.
it's glaringly a lot better of a commentary on a high point of a signature mailer than on a low point in politics.
Given the lunatic self-importance of this book's first section (a third-person novel with the author
Although I can find no ready reference to it, I believe this book was published, perhaps in serialized form, in a magazine like Harpers or the Atlantic (both of which I subscribed to back then). In any case, I recall reading it in such a format while still in high school, when the Pentagon demonstration was still a fresh memory. It was, I believe, the first full-length book I'd ever read by Norman Mailer, an author familiar to me from parental and grandparental bookshelves.
The biggest load of over-rated, self indulgent drivel I have ever read. A total chore to read. Just delighted to have finished it so that I can leave it to gather dust on a bookshelf somewhere. It was so dire, it was actually annoying.
#1 of 26: Very, very good.New York Magazine's New York Canon
El libro habla sobre ellos y otras personalidades, así como de los antecedentes de la marcha, los excesos de algunos manifestantes y las tácticas disuasivas de los guardias y los siempre presentes infiltrados.Al narrar un hecho histórico, resulta prácticamente imposible que Mailer pueda ofrecer una apariencia de ficción.
El autor se somete a los rigores de la investigación periodística y nadamás.La elección del narrador resulta bastante extraña; el escritor se coloca a sí mismo como el protagonista de la novela, pero no narra en primera persona.
The Mailer character is unappealing in most ways, apart from some occasional kindness--such as when he plays games with kids in jail--and the fact that his every negative comment is a meta-act of elaborate, tongue-in-cheek self-abasement.Unfortunately, his writing style is quite egoistic and rather conflicting when he talks about “Mailer” in third person, his wives, and favoritism for his sons over his daughters, a few flip remarks about Vietnam, a brief and history of the civil rights movement and key players, and much self-congratulatory exaggeration about the cool NY literary parties which he attended.If I were to recommend this book to someone, the person would have to be quite an accepting/open minded person due to the strong leftist ideas portrayed in the novel.
So begins Norman Mailer's 'The Armies of the Night: History as a Novel, the Novel as History' which is one of the strangest books you could read about the Vietnam War. The non-fiction novel genre has few to compare with, Truman Capote's 'In Cold Blood' and Hunter S.
Mailer is able to express himself they way he wishes he was at times but also able to give voice to the anger and misgivings people in the U.S. had about the war.
Being one of the finest writers of the 20th century it is an interesting book to read with a very diverse format...
