https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/679944.A_Heart_So_Wild
3,5★ Mi debut con esta autora y me ha gustado mucho, sin duda leeré más de sus historias.
Meanwhile he must stay on the bloody path he had set for himself- avenge the slaughter of his mother and half sister._________She hated living with her selfish step mother, so when it seemed her father was alive and living in another state- the opposite of what she had been told- Courtney Harte jumps at the only chance to go discover the truth for herself.
I’m amazed- not because it happens, but because it happens with a story I know like the back of my hand- and one I’ve been reading over and over since my teenage years.
That’s how much a woman likes to feel protected- even one who knows she can pretty much survive anything after all she's been through.
-3.5-Llevaba mucho tiempo detrás de este libro, y gracias a las librerías de segunda mano he podido encontrarlo (Aunque la portada es lo más feo que puedes echarte a la vista xD).La historia de Chandos y Courtney es tierna y muy divertida, pese a que la pasa de todo a la pobre chica y Chandos es borde como él solo. Y pese a que me ha gustado y me lo he terminado prácticamente en dos días, esperaba un poco más viendo la nota tan alta que tiene en Goodreads.
A great example of why Lindsey is such an amazing Historical romance author....her heroes are typical of the bodice rippers, but not quite as brutal. Her romance takes center stage but the secondary plot is engaging as well. It's a wild trek through a wild land. A somewhat innocent heroine, a savage and untamed Indian. He's a chest beater, she's got a stubborn streak and is on a mission. Great choice!
Love the book...Love the hero and heroin....satu lagi pahlawan yang seru dan seksi...Chandos a.k.a Kane StrantonDiawali dengan kejadian sadis, yang mengingatkan saya pada kasus yg saya tangani sendiri pada tahun 1993 di Bandung, dimana terjadi pembunuhan terhadap satu keluarga dan perkosaan dan pembunuhan terhadap gadis kecil usia 9 tahun ! Dan saya yg harus meng-otopsi si gadis kecil.  [image error]Gadis kecil itu baru berusia 10 tahun waktu di perkosa berkali-kali lalu mati mengenaskan di tang
apalagi setelah mendengar Courtney tetap akan oergi walau harus bersama Reed Taylor , org terkaya di kota kecil itu walau terpaksa harus menikahinya.Dalam perjalanan yg melelahkan itu Cortney merasakan ketertarikan terhadap Chandos yg makin meningkat,juga Chandos terhadap Courtney yg di tahannya.Ada satu rahasia Chandos yg disembunyikannya dari Courtney, yaitu , rambut Courtney empat tahun lalu yg di cengkramnya saat melakukan penyerangan, masih disimpan di sakunya, dan Chandos seperti terobsesi oleh Courtney.
En este caso está ambientada en el oeste y aunque cae en tópicos con los protagonistas, Johanna le da ese puntito personal que los hace diferente a todos.
Además no creo que los tópicos sean negativos, en este caso quería una historia que me enganchara al instante y me evadiera y lo ha conseguido totalmente.Si no habéis leído nada de la autora este es un buen libro para comenzar, para viajar al caluroso oeste de mano de dos personajes que os garantizo que os regalará un bonito y tierno romance.7RESEÑA COMPLETA: http://librosenfamilia.blogspot.com.e...
Wow, una de mis primeras novelas de romance histórico, y después me preguntan de donde viene mi obsesión con lo western, solo miren a Chandos, mamita querida, que muchacho *-*Sí, han pasado muchos años desde que lo leí, pero who cares, ¿y qué si no me pareció tan romántico como la primera vez?
Anduve de compras el otro día y me traje esta joya de una tienda de libros usados, las manoseadas que tienen son indescriptibles, pero tiene historia, y es exacta a cómo me la encontré la primera vez.Te sigo queriendo Chandos, aún todo bruto, torpe y rudo, te sigo queriendo.
When Courtney survives an attack by the Indians, her life takes a turn for the worse with the disappearance of her father, leaving her solely dependent on her stepmother until she can make it out on her own.Chandos is a man who is hellbent on getting revenge on those who had violated and killed the people closest to him.
And I absolutely loved the way Courtney continued to give as good as she got from Chandos, though she loves him to the point of distraction, never letting Chandos walk all over her and her feelings for him.
Tenía este libro por casa desde hace un montón y nunca le había dado una oportunidad. Ahora lo he hecho y no me arrepiento. Me ha gustado bastante la historia y la relación entre Chandos y Courtney. Quizá el final sea algo precipitado, pero en general es una lectura muy entretenida.
Nuestra reseña en el blog http://alacamaconunlibro.blogspot.com...
A classic in Native American historical romance genre. Why isn't it available via Audible? Duh! I'd like a male narrator: Petkoff, Griffith, etc
In here Chandos felt to me a bit cruel, not the ones that derive pleasure from physical cruelty , but the type that distance himself from others while hurting them with his words, but he did  have his physical moments as well, like his first night with her when he wanted to teach her not to trust anyone, even him.
Plus his first time he saw her, when he pulled her hair, but after that I liked the part when he kept a bit of her hair with him these last four years.
And though he wasn't all ponies and rainbows at the end, cause lets face it, he did murder some people in a most horrible way, he was able to move on from his revenge feelings and you felt that he would make a good life from here on in with the heroine and would make up the relationships he had previously discarded.As I mentioned at the beginning of this review, it was a bit gritty for a romance road trip, but I really enjoyed it and there wasn't a dandy in sight, which made for a nice change.
One of Ms. Lindsey's better reads. I can't really put my finger on why I loved it. I just did. It has the alpha, protective hero and the "helpless" heroine. Not that helpless is good. It's not, really, but she was a city girl out of her element so I forgive her.
If you can get past the first 2 chapters this is an amazing book. There is some seriously tragic events in the beginning but you need to know to understand the characters. I would highly recommend this book and the book that follows.
Well, I liked and at the same time didn't like the story. It was interesting to follow Courtney's growth as a person but the hero of the story was despicable. I didn't like his way of thinking and the way he treated Courtney was awful. He was a mean bully.
This is one I read over and over again for its romance and the Western flavor.
Timid Courtney and her family had the misfortune to witness a violent Indian raid, but were sparred for their obvious involvement in the afforementioned raid.
What she doesn't expect is the bubbling attraction between them or the dark past that they somewhat share, that has shaped Chandos to who he is.I must first say that Courtney is a very interesting heroine.
I loved them both and they make a really good pair.Additionally, I like the random bounty hunters and the ex-mistress that added to a lot of character building on Courtney's part.
The tragic beginning is very painful and Chandos isn't really a warm character.
Way too bodice-rippery for my taste. Characters were flat. A thoroughly grunting/possessive hero and a ridiculously immature heroine. Can't even give a two-star for courtesy. I stopped reading in earnest at about 60% through and skimmed the rest.
yes again and every time: I LOVE CHANDOS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!More than an Alfa male.
i love CHANDOS!!! (a.k.a Kane Straton) ^^
Relectura 😍
Leído en Agosto 2012 Me gustó muucho!! los prota me encantaron
The story tells us about a young girl, who was lost her father, the only person she loved in the entire world, due to very unfortunate circumstances.
Courtney eventually finds that there is indeed more than one person she could love in this world after all.The delivery of the novel is very well done, but I have come across many travelling stories so it has become very difficult for me to be surprised, or utterly taken with such another plot.
At that time, Texas was a rough place bringing together gunmen, cowboys, ranchers and Indians.
Now disillusioned, he decides to move to Texas.
Courtney's life is spared by a blue-eyed Indian.
Thinking her father dead, she stays on to live in Kansas until one day she sees a newspaper photo from Texas and her father is in the background.
Courtney decides to hire a gunman to take her to Texas.
First there is the bias against Indians and the way they were treated (though Lindsey recognizes cruelty on both sides).
1 lagi cerita ttg indian n kulit putih..*lama2 bosen sama tema JL yg itu2 saja*Courtney si mata kuci
just re-read this and snickered and giggled and rolled my eyes a lot."That angelic-looking killer is going to rape me and you ask me what's wrong?" -- snickerShe decided that "God Sakes" (always double capitalized) was a good Western/Ladylike curse and that's what Courtney says.
A LOT.
rolls eyes.
Until near the end she decides she can let slip an occasional "goddam" Chandos (whose White name is Kane Straton and whose Comanche name we never learn) insists on calling Courney "cateyes" and even though it's used as her other name it's never capitalized.
(eye roll and asks the dog if I can take this much more)But giggles?
Baca buku ini untuk kedua kalinya pendapatku tetap konsisten.
Chandos adalah pilihanmu kalau suka tipe hero mie instan.
Silent, calm, strong.
Courtney agak terlalu berjiwa bebas dan keras kepala untuk seleraku, tapi dia juga tipe strong heroine.
Mereka berdua termasuk karakter yang memorable dari sekian banyak buku JL.Tarik ulur mereka penuh tensi dan pergolakan emosi.
Mereka berjuang keras untuk cinta mereka dalam terpaan cobaan keluarga dan banyak petualangan hal lain yang tak ingin kubocorkan di sini.
Yang pasti buku ini membuatku cinta setengah mati pada tema wild western yang penuh cowboy, indian dan duel senjata hohohoMy star : 3.5/5
I wanted to love this because of the serious subject matter, but just ended up liking it.
In a welcome change, A Heart So Wild was darker in tone than the typical Johanna Lindsey romance.
This change also added credibility to the setting, the Wild West.
As much as I sympathized with Chandos' quest, I found it difficult to connect with him because he was a bit too mysterious and brooding.
(view spoiler)[He wanted revenge for the horrific rape and deaths of his mother and half-sister.
(hide spoiler)] I did like how protective he was of Courtney, who was a spunky and strong-willed heroine.

