https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/819436.The_Ship_That_Flew
When my mother and grandparents when on sabbatical in Nottingham, they lived next door to Hilda Lewis who gave my family several copies (the book came out in 1939).
Years later when I was little my mother pulled this book out and it became one of my most beloved and cherished books.
It is one of the most enchanting tales I will ever read.
Though I haven't read it in years (seeing as it lives on my mum's bookshelf and not my own), I can recall it to memory clearly.
I recently discovered the book was reprinted in 1998.
Perhaps I can get myself a copy.
Fantasy about four children and their magical travels.In a dark little shop, in a dark little street, Peter finds a little ship that costs him "all the money he has in the world - "and a bit over." This seems like a high price but it takes him into a magical world.* * *I read the first chapter to my nephew this morning and he ate it up.
My sister and I told him how mysterious dark little streets and shops are a clue in books that something exciting and possibly magical is going to happen and he nodded intently, memorizing that piece of knowledge.
This book is very much like Five Children and It by E. Nesbit and Half Magic by Edward Eager though I liked it more. It was episodic (which isn't always my favorite), but the adventures seemed well thought out and the children protagonists were well written. I think I'd have liked this even more had I read it prior to the other two. So, this book follows a bit of a formula, but it does it with style and ingenuity (it isn't a copy or rip-off in any way). I recommend it.
It was funny for me to discover a book like this that I missed as a kid.
It shares so much with my favorite childhod books-- Eager, Nesbit, Lewis-- and I enjoyed it a lot.
But it misses some of the humor, and also some of the complexity.
It falls just a little short.One thing I enjoyed, while reading it, was thinking about how we follow rules for POV in kidlit today that older authors didn't seem to bother with.
It didn't bother me at all, but it did get me thinking about why we observe the literary habits we observe.
It's actually a little disturbing to me to hold it in a brand-new paperback instead of in the worn library-bound hardcover that I cherished as a child - but I'm thrilled that it's back in print.I grew up waiting for magic on every corner.
My favourites were this lovely little book from Hilda Lewis, ANYTHING by E.
- to share this treasure with my girls.
I can't wait to read about the Normans with the girls, after covering that part of history this week.
I think they'll have a richer appreciation of the story than I ever did.It's an absolute joy to share these childhood treasures with my girls.
A childhood favorite. I think I read and reread this book over a dozen times from the age of 9-12.
During a snowy week in winter, my 5th grade teacher read this book to our class during the noon recess as we were not allowed out (too cold).I was nine.
I enjoyed it so much after the teacher finished it, I checked it out of the library and re-read it.
Later, the US edition come out in 1958.In an old curio shop, Peter buys a small toy boat for "all the money he has in the world---and a bit more." (and it was true he remembered later, for he gave the seller a bit of his father's pocket change as well.)Peter, his brother, and his two sisters soon find the Ship can fly them anywhere---including the past.
Fifty years ago and I still remember it.P.s. Help!
I read this book in middle school while waiting for the next Harry Potter. If you are able to find a copy of it in a library or a thrift store, grab it because it's amazing! It's similar to The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe in that there are four children and they go on adventures. Let's just say the ship also brought me to places and times as I read it. Quite an incredibly fantasy book that will certainly stir up your imagination!
Stumbled across this in a secondhand bookshop and what a find! Brilliant. Ingenious. Imaginative. Had I read it as a child I have no doubt it would still be one of my favourite books! The way the author wraps it up is particularly lovely (giving nothing away!).
A young boy finds a magic toy boat in a magic shop, and he and his brother and two sisters have all sorts of adventures flying through time in it. I loved it. A predecessor to The Magic Treehouse books, but much better. I love that the boat turns out to be Frey's, and the encounters between the kids and the Norse gods are great. Definitely recommended.
First read this at school in 1972. Out of print for decades. Then republished and now a treasured book. Great time travel story using a magic Viking ship. Brilliant story for 10+ upwards.
my dad couldnt get it in america so he ordered it all the way from englandits very goodits about 4 children the oldest stumbles into a store hes never seenhe buys a goat with everything he has and a little bit morethey go to different times, and different locations.they meet different people make friends but as they expierence a different adventure they learn something new about the boat.
The epitome of escapism. I used to read my school's copy of this at least once a month as a child, and will never forget my excitement when it was republished and I got my own copy. This timeless classic proves that a good children's story doesn't need teenage angst, dating or vampires room provide entertainment.
Loved this book as a child. I have spent years trying to find it because I could not remember the title or author. Finally found it on Good Reads! I just reread it. Not quite as good as I remembered which is interesting because there are many childhood books that I still appreciate. However I still love the idea of ship that can take you any place in the world or time.
A formative childhood book. The line "All the money in the world and a little bit more" has never left me as a concept, and I am always on the look out for small cluttered curio shops that have always been there yet have never seen before.
I can' remember where I got this book. I own it in hard cover. It has traveled the world with me. I read it to my children when they were small. I hope to read it to my grand children. The grand adventures of the four children made every chapter anticipated.
I loved it as a child and one of the most most (mis- ?)quoted phases in my vocabulary is 'All the money you have in the world plus a bit more..' I still see funny little shops in old back lanes and wonder....Dying to read it again
This is an old favourite of mine, given to me by my English grandmother as a child. My son, just turned eight years old, loves it. We're on our third or fourth reading of the book.
Delightful! Kids have adventures with a magical ship. 1939 Great Britain
This is the first novel I read that really captured my imagination and fostered my love of reading. I'd love to find a hard copy of it
I first read this as a kid and it's still a favourite.
a magical historical fiction, time travel--deliciously imaginative...I don't think the other titles that popped up are by the same Hilda Lewis though (the Harlot Queen?)
