https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12142.Seven_Plays
Nell’immagine, insieme a Shepard, il protagonista Richard Gere.Come posso non ricordare il professore universitario della ricercatrice Julia Roberts che salta in aria nella sua bella macchina in “The Pelican Brief-Il rapporto Pelican”, quando John Grisham era ancora super hot (nel senso di ogni romanzo un successo e un film di successo, milioni di dollari dietro milioni di dollari).
As for the others, they aren't so much low points as they are simply different, avant garde, or absurdist (in the theatrical sense of the term), and, generally speaking, a bit odd.
Each play is certainly worth a read or a trip to the theatre, but, caveat lector, in my opinion, they aren't all his best work.
We have lost a great voice....Sam Shepard.#PulitzerPrize Drama 1979 Buried Child#PulitzerPrize Drama nomination 1983 True West #PulitzerPrize Drama nomination 1984 Fool for Love Review
It was good

نفرین طبقه گرسنه سام شپرد یکی دیگر از تراژدی های خانوادگی این نویسنده است.گرسنگی نام برده شده در کتا
A definitive reader from one of the most influential American playwrights, and Gilman writes a solid foreword to the book. Shepard is best known for the parlance of his characters, but people shouldn't overlook his capacity for imagery, for letting the images on stage inform the viewers/readers in ways much more effective than any lines of dialogue. He doesn't "connect the dots" for you, but chooses images that are sometimes subtle, sometimes brutal to convey his deeper intentions. This style of storytelling places more onus on the viewer/reader, but the payoff far outweighs the work involved.
Buried Child: Fabulous, but why the dude with a prosthetic leg? Curse of the Starving Class: very goodTooth of Crime: a travesty, a horribly juvenile trainwreck of a play that could only be staged by a mentally defective boomerTrue West: a masterpieceLa Turista: meh, just okay, clearly a begginer's workThe others are just short little filler to make the book seem more substantial.
Adored the first three plays. Absolute favourites.
Shepard commands language - showing how the mythologies of the untame western spirit, and the mythology of Hollywood fame hang as albatrosses of desire for the two men.
Desire, madness and danger are twisted into the dialogue of the men as they unravel throughout a dark night of the soul.
The vestiges of a loving emotionally supportive family are encountered through fresh crops, or Vincent returning from his western home, or in the wraithlike presence of a son who died too young.
Creating a space for the dark impulses of the id and the brutal realtiies of the lonely disconnected West, Shepard creates a particularly dangerous world.
Despite the average rating, I will say I think this is the best collection someone could read if they wanted to get a taste of Sam Shepard's body of work.
Prolific is often a word critics use to describe Mr. Shepard but the word honestly seems like an understatement when I think of the widely varying stories that were told and the way they were told in these seven pieces.
As I said at the beginning of my review, if you want to get an idea of all the different styles and types of pieces Sam Shepard wrote over the course of his career, this is a perfect collection to explore.
Sam Shepard died, and my social feeds all sparkled with pictures of Shepard sitting cozy next to Patti Smith and declarations of his departed genius. I knew him mostly as the gnarly father in the Netflix series Bloodline; so I picked up this Seven Plays collection at a thrift store hoping to read what I had been missing. First off, Shepard basically creates the Danny character from Bloodline in one of the plays right here in this book. I won’t say which one. It’s worth something to search through the other six plays as well to find out.
I think Sam Shepard is my favourite playwright. True West, Buried Child and Curse of the Starving Class are all great plays and understandable in the traditional sense (i.e. they are readable and I know what's going on). The other ones, while I didn't understand much of what was going on, there is meat there that could be really interesting if there was a director with a lot of vision and intelligence. Savage/Love and Tongues are kinda like good 'bad' poetry.
Buried child is one of the best plays ever. Won the Pulitzer I believe. Also remember another one about Hollywood or something when someone breaks the back wall and leaves the shadow of a cartoon behind. Taught me that plays can have powerful images even if unrealistic in our world!
Includes some fantastic plays (True West, Buried Child, and Curse of the Starving Class), some ok stuff (La Turista, Tongues, Savage Love), and the terrible The Tooth of the Crime. But the first three plays are worth the price of the book alone.
My man is more absurdist than I recalled, and I think his least so - Curse of the Starving Class - holds up over time as his best.
Among his best work
I'll never forget my first encounter with Sam Shepard's work.
It was a performance of Curse of the Starving class, performed by the drama department at The University of British Columbia.
I left the theatre in shock thinking, "So that is what the theatre can be." Also, the performances of Gary Sinise and John Malkovich are superb in Shepard's masterpiece True West.
The apocalyptic 'trying to find a pencil scene in the kitchen while the operator is waiting on the line' is probably the rawest and most outrageous scene in modern drama.
I like reading most about Sam 19s combative relationship with his own father.
I mean, the estrangement between father and son seems to take center stage in Buried Child, Fool For Love, True West, Curse of the Starving Class 26Motel Chronicles.Sam 19s father was a the pilot of an air force bomber in World War II.
In 1CBuried Child, 1D a young son comes home to find his father doesn 19t recognize him or remember him, but at the same time, he seems to understand him better him than he understands himself.
I bring up Buried Child because of a great story about Sam 19s father.
I was working away when I feel this shadow cross over me.
Real low down like he’s coming in for a landing.
Like I could almost feel his feathers on my back.
He’s down on the shed roof with his talons taking half the tar paper with him, wings whippin’ the air, screaming like a bred mare then climbing straight back up into the sky again.
Every time I cut a lamb I’d throw those balls up on the shed roof.
And every time he’d come down like the Cannonball Express on that roof.
And every time I got that feeling."
Maybe some of works by Shepard are not as interesting as the others, but for those whom are interested in sociology, and drama as writing-art, will enjoy reading or watching works by Shepard.
Reading simple and plain plays by Shepard gives you dare to sit and write about whatsoever plot you have in your mind.
سام شپارد بازیگر سینما و تیاتر هم هست و در برخی از فیلم ها همچون "فرانسیس" یا "دیگه نیا دم در" (ویم وندرس) با همسرش "جسیکا لنگ" همبازی بوده است.
سام شپارد هم چنین نقد تیاتر و سینما هم می نویسد و برخی از نقدهایش در مجلات مشهور انگلیسی زبان منتشر می شوند.
Reading: Buried Child, Curse of the Starving Class, and True West
..."1979 Buried Child (Pulitzer Prize, Obie Award, Tony Award) 5* Dodge, Halie, Tilden, Bradley, Vince, Shelly, Father Dewis"I thought I saw a face inside his face."1976 Curse of the Starving Class (Obie Award) 5* Wesley, Ella, Emma, Taylor, Weston, Ellis, Malcolm, Emerson, Slater"That was my chicken and you fucking boiled it!
I raised that chicken from the incubator to the grave and you boiled it like it was any old frozen hunk of flesh!"1974 The Tooth of Crime (Obie Award) 4* Hoss, Becky Lou, Star-man, Galactic Jack, Referee, Cheyenne, Doc, Crow1968 La Turista (Obie Award) 3* Salem, Kent, Boy, Doctor, Son, Doc, Sonny1981 Tongues 4* Percussionist, Speaker1981 Savage/Love 3*

Sam Shepard is a fantastic playwright!
My favorite out of these plays was definitely "Curse of the Starving Class." This play follows a dysfunctional family consisting of an ever-drunk father, his erratic and unreliable wife, an irresponsible son, an ambitious pretentious teenage daughter, and their sick goat.
Like most of Shepard's plays, "Curse of the Starving Class" deals a lot with the idea of the west, and how achievable the American dream really is.
What begins as a comical, somewhat racy family scene twists into a poignant, engaging drama.
I recommend this play to anyone, because it is very readable and relatable.
Buried Child will wreck you.
It's easy to see why this play won a Pulitzer; the story weaves tighter even as the characters come unraveled.
It is savagely funny and brutally truthful, and its final moment is breathtaking.Everything that comes after is both brilliant and pales in comparison to Buried Child.
Curse of the Starving Class and True West were both wickedly funny, and stayed with me for days after reading them.
Because I already want to read it again, to dissect each play to see how Shepard ticks.
These plays were--um, I don't even know how best to describe them because when I'd finished reading them, I was unsure what Shepard's intent really was. Buried Child was just completely uncomfortable and depressing. I can appreciate that there was an attempt to provide a commentary on frustrations with the American dream, disillusionment, and dynamics of a fractured family, but he didn't sell it in any form that was engaging or even mildly entertaining. However, this play won a Pulitzer, so what do I know?? :)
When I was in college, every theater major had a copy of Shepard's "Seven Plays" on his or her shelf. This anthology -- which came out in the early '80s -- had poetry, experimentation, attitude, sordidness, rebelliousness, in-your-face theatrics and crazy monologues. Some of the plays have improved with age ("Curse of the Starving Class"); others continue to mystify ("La Turista"); and others delight today as much as they did 30 years ago ("Buried Child," "True West," "Savage/Love"). I'd still take Shepard over O'Neill any day.
Mostly work from the 1960's and 1970's. Most of the work has a kind of a manic experimental feeling to it,...raw, spewing without thought, to get to some kind of new meaning. I guess my favorite piece is "Tongues". It ends:Today the wind roared through the center of town.Tonight I hear its voice.Today the river lay wide open to the sunTonight I hear it speaking.Today the moon remained in the sky.Tonight I feel it moving.Today the people talked without speaking.Tonight I can hear what they're saying.Today the tree bloomed without a word.Tonight I'm learning its language.
I wanted to like this, but I couldn't feel anything for the characters. I only experienced a general sense of malaise. I'm not sure if that's my current state of mind, or the actual tone of these plays. None the less, I stopped reading it because there's no sense in reading something I don't enjoy that's not going to reveal something I don't already know. Also I realized that I don't really like reading plays. This review, therefore, is quite biased.
