https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17343.Till_We_Have_Faces
Even among those who label themselves as Lewis fans, the work is not often read.
Perhaps it is because the book is so often seen as a philosophical/theological work, something scholarly and dense and difficult to read.
Lewis did not set about to write a story based off of a principle.
This tale is set in a world of myth so well realized that it never once feels artificial.
Many myth-inspired works feel unreal, as if the myth was painted on and the author only knew a little of his own world.
List of beauties:- The epigraph: “Love is too young to know what conscience is.” The first line of Shakespeare’s Sonnet 151; Lewis makes the quotation speak of Orual’s sub-moral love, Psyche’s super-moral love, and the god’s supra-mortal love.- Dedication: “To Joy Davidman.” TWHF was published in 1956, when Lewis was married to Joy. He says somewhere that she was so involved in his mental processes during the creation of this book “as to be almost a co-author.” - The first sentence: “I am old now and have not much to fear from the anger of gods.” It sets the tone for the entire first section of the novel; it paints a vague historical and geographical context by the mere word “gods”; it encapsulates the character’s past and present, age and attitude, faith and heresy.
One of the lesser known of Lewis' fiction works, this is a masterful retelling of the mythological story of Cupid and Psyche that paints a vivid picture of how selfish humanly love is, and to what extent we will go to protect it.
The narrative serves to humble the reader as the heroine of the novel transforms from the pitiable victim to the chief antagonist, and at the same time we realize that we are her, always pondering on the wrongs done to us and the shortcomings we experience.
Yet, in the end, we are most likely the villains in a myriad of others' stories as much as the tragic hero of our own.
S. Lewis went out of his way to retell the story of Psyche and Cupid from the PoV of Orual, the ugly sister, and it's a very well-told tale.
He admits he uses the original as a template and goes on to make a much more psychological and grounded tale than the original, and he pulls it off delightfully, full of Orual's obsessive angst, her striving to be better, her complaints against the gods, and eventually the god's replies.More than the original, I think, this retelling captures the darker and more intricate differences and pulls off an entirely different level of storytelling.
Ugly Orual loves her beautiful youngest sister Psyche that she acts as her mother and a protector.
However, when the ugly Orual is about to expire in the end, she realizes that the true reason behind her deception and that she indeed still loves her sister – the beautiful Psyche.
Orual did not feel that she was loved by her father because of her ugliness but she was able to love Psyche from the time she was born.
S. Lewis, this book does not have any Christian theme but for me, the veil covering Orual’s face signifies sin: jealousy, pride and deception.
Stupendous. World class. Top drawer.Finished an audio version of it in August of 2016. I have read this a total of three times. Once when I was young, and I didn't like it. The second time was in 2003, and I thought it was great. This time, and greater still.
I have read this book over and over again.
Perhaps it is the book I have reread more than any other.
I used to read it because I didn't get it and felt I should.
It seems like I must have."I saw well why the gods do not speak to us openly, nor let us answer.
Till that word can be dug out of us, why should they hear the babble that we think we mean?
How can they meet us face to face till we have faces?”  I am thankful that when we see Him, Jesus, face to face we will be like Him.
A must-read for any Lewis fan.
He began the book as an unbeliever (a case against God) and finished it some 30 years later fully converted.
Almost autobiographical, you get a real sense of his own spiritual awakening.
The name comes from the scripture: "Now we see through a glass, darkly: but then face to face..shall I know even as also I am known." Better than anything I've read, it describes the process of developing faith and finding and becoming like God. Amazing!
The actual Cupid & Psyche myth is summarized in the back of the book.
Read it first for context.
Would we have God make us what we wish to be, or make us what God knows we are meant to be?
How would even our loved ones fair if God treated them as we thought God should?
And also the book is about God’s answer to that charge.“Are the gods not just?”“Oh no, child.
But come and see”...“I ended my first book with the words no answer.
I know now, Lord, why you utter no answer.
You are yourself the answer.
Those who like their discussions of God neat and tidy will likely misunderstand the book or even be repulsed by it.
I was immediately caught up and carried away by this fable retold, ostensibly a historical narrative in the confessional mode, with unabashedly spiritual overtones.The book revisits the Cupid and Psyche myth from the point of view of one of Psyche’s sisters, Maia or Orual, who feels the gods have treated her unfairly and wishes to set the record straight.
She gives us the story from her point of view, starting with her childhood and the birth of baby Psyche, all the way through to the well-known tale of how her beloved sister became the bride of a mysterious man who refused to show his face.
114"Yet it surprised me that he should have said it; for I did not yet know that if you are ugly enough, all men (unless they hate you deeply) soon give up thinking of you as a woman at all." pg.
131"My heart was still as ice, heavy as lead, cold as earth, but I was free now from all doubting and deliberating." pg.157"You are indeed teaching me about a kind of love I did not know.
I am not sure whether I like your kind better than hatred." pg.165"...dust blown in my own eyes by myself." pg.
173"Till that word can be dug out of us, why should they hear the babble that we think we mean?
Then as we started discussing, it started making more and more sense, and I left in awe, thinking of all the connections: "The gods answered with silence." Oh, I don't have time to do a real review, but I will!Let me just say, reading this book reminded me of reading Jane Eyre; I was completely un-made and re-made through the process--a stronger, better version of my old self.
I loved it even more the second time around, and I think this is a book that I should read every January.
“When the time comes to you at which you will be forced at last to utter the speech which has lain at the center of your soul for years which you have, all that time, idiot-like, been saying over and over, you’ll not talk about the joy of words.
I saw well why the gods do not speak to us openly, nor let us answer.
Till that word can be dug out of us, why should they hear the babble that we think we mean?
How can they meet us face to face till we have faces?” This book is something rare and extr
Though ostensibly a retelling of the myth of Cupid and Psyche (I'd recommend reading Lewis's afterward before you begin if you're not already familiar with the story, as he provides a succinct summary), it's told from the point of view of one of Psyche's sisters, Orual, a princess cursed with an ugly face.
I'd recommend this to absolutely everyone.)Till We Have Faces achieves everything I like to see in a retelling - it fleshes out the stories of minor characters who only play bit parts in the original, it interrogates and expands on the original themes, and it captures the wondrous atmosphere that makes mythology so compelling.
I went on to read Lewis's Martian books, eg "Perelandra", and suddenly *smack* the Jesus factor hit me and I lost my taste for Lewis.
I suspect the lack of Christian symbolism hurts the book in his fans' eyes.
But I am here to say that, for the non-Christian looking for an entree into world of Lewis, this is the place to go.
The story's remarkable final chapters bring her an unexpected and spiritually transforming redemption.A number of times, when I myself have felt bitterness and hurt, I've found that reading or even recalling this story have helped me confront myself, be healed, and move on.Rather than the overtly or symbolically Christian worlds in which Lewis set much of his other fiction, Orual's story takes place midst a landscape from which Christ is apparently absent, somewhere a little outside the border of the pre-Christian classical Mediterranean civilization.Those who might stumble over the explicit Christian themes present in Lewis's other work may find this easier going.
My 1956 edition of Lewis' novel has vaguely Egyptian and Mesopotamian illustrations but Lewis' fantasy kingdom of Glome has more in common with the Bronze Age cultures around the Black Sea that David W.
Glome is a world under constant threat and now facing the inexorable reality of change.
Onto this scene come three royal sisters of Glome: one so ugly that her only hope seems to be to veil herself, one born so beautiful that those who see her declare her a goddess, and one whose desires and devices might bring her sisters and the kingdom to an end.Alas, the last fifty pages....You know how it is when you are almost on the edge of waking up?
It took me a while to get into this story, but once you get deep into it, it becomes beautiful and tragic. While the concept of love is generally considered to be a positive emotion, this re-telling of a mythological tale shows the darker, more damaging side of what passionate love can lead a person to do. It also cleverly demonstrates how one's own selfish perspective and rationalization of bad behavior can blind us to the truth of our motives and our actions. It is definitely a thought-provoking work that will haunt you long after you finish reading it.
I like that the "apologetics" of this book avoids rationalist attempts to "prove" God and Christianity with logic.
Lewis' understanding of that love, of course, but I think he makes a good "case".
Ultimately a story about what it is to be human, set within the problem of what it is to be in relationship to diety-- though the latter theme would probably just frusterate or anger anyone not already sympathetic to Lewis' veiwpoint, I think-- I have trouble seeing any of my atheist friends (or agnostic friends who tend more towards the atheistic side of things) enjoying this the way I did.

One of my favorite books of all times.
It changed me.I don't know exactly what to say about it that would be informative.
It is Mr. Lewis' spin on the tale of Psyche and Cupid.
It touches topics like paganism, jealousy, love, bias, etc.But, more than anything, the part of this book that sticks with me continually is Orual's plea to the gods.
The deep philosophical points of this scene (and the storyline of her journey to this point) are so profound.
This work, like C.S. Lewis' other works, is not a light-hearted read.
It is deep, philosophical, and slow-going.
2007 I just read this book for the second time, and I loved it more this time than the first. I also got a lot more out of it the second time around. It is such a beautiful story. From this we see how being ugly within sucks life from those around us, that faith is difficult but worthwhile, that our lives are defined by our connection with others, and that sacrifice is purifying and beautifying. And I believe Orual's last line would have been, "I might - have loved him."
As Orual wrestles with the turn of events, her heart and the gods themselves, she finds that there was more to love that she needed to learn and unlearn for her to truly understand what love really is.This is unlike any other C.S. Lewis novel I've read, but I'm no authority since I haven't really read them all.
I'm buying my own copy after Lent for sure.I end this review with the last line of the book -- not a spoiler, don't worry, but definitely one of the best last lines I've ever read:I know now, Lord, why you utter no answer.
I chose to approach it as a story, though, as a myth retelling -- and I suspect it's perfectly possible to do both at once.It's a beautifully told story, and one that feels real, psychologically and in terms of feeling like a real place, with real people.
The basic details of the original story are that Psyche is very beautiful, and Aphrodite is jealous, and has her people sacrifice her.
Eventually, they are reunited and she becomes a goddess.Lewis' retelling is questioning what it would have been like if the sister had told Psyche to light a lamp not out of jealousy, but out of love and concern for her.
It is the retelling of the myth of Cupid and Psyche (which Lewis recounts for reference at the very end), rather changed for the better I thought.
It made me see how a devout pagan from ancient times could have possibly developed a notion of Christian morality, as Lewis shows that certain core moral principles are universal across time and religious belief.
He doesn't argue or defend Christianity in this work - he doesn't mention it once, instead he just shows the 'human struggle' to make sense of what happens in life, and to discern good and evil, in the context of one ancient story.
Breath-taking! Poetic, beautiful, heart-full. Exquisite insights for all of us who wish to love in the best way we can. (And I liked the style ever-so-much better than "Narnia." Glad I can now appreciate Lewis more!)
Sometimes in our life, we can’t stop to ponder “Why did this happen to me?” or “Why God doesn’t answer my prayers?” or perhaps “God doesn’t love me for He let such a terrible thing to happen.” Sometimes, we can’t help but to question God, wonder if He truly does exist and if He does, why did He turn His back from us?
Psyche grew up with the happiness and love of Orual and the Fox, a slave sold to them from the Greek lands who taught them how to speak and read Greek.But that didn’t last long.
It's remarkable how well written this is; Lewis captures the stilted cadence of mythological language so well (it's exactly what I felt was missing from Neil Gaiman's Norse Mythology) while also creating the conflicted and powerful protagonist Orual, Queen of Glome – who wrestles with her own doubts about the gods even as she proves a strong, wise and sure-handed monarch.
It being Lewis, you need to expect some moments of unnecessary monologuing about the nature of the divine.
The conclusion Orual reaches is also not surprising if you're familiar at all with Lewis' work, although not too detracting, I don't think.
This book went straight onto my favorites list.
It is a re-imagining of the myth of Cupid and Psyches told from the perspective of Orual, Psyches's eldest sister.
It prompts me to reread the original myth soon as my memory of it is a bit vague -having said this, the reader doesn't need to an interest in mythology to enjoy this story.
The book is about organised religion and Orual's perceptions of, and reactions to, the demands and inconsistencies of her gods.
Beauty and it's relationship to love is also examined.I found the tale fascinating though I think some of Lewis's went over my head on this initial read.
The most influential & insightful book I've ever read.
I absolutely love CS Lewis, and this is his best book ever (at least so far).
I devoured it in one night, I'll have to reread it I know, but I found myself seeing my own life, questioning my motivations, wondering about masks, and the mystical vs.
I understood a lot, and I'll be mentally chewing on that for a long time.Peter Kreeft has a wonderful podcast on this book, which I deeply enjoyed.
It's the reason I read this book.
Some books speak to the mind and imagination.
Others speak to the soul, the innermost parts of man.
There might be a hundred things in it that I could not see" (120)."And I knew, by the mere taste of them that all those dreams came from that moment when I believed I was looking at Psyche's palace and did not see it.
It was the strangest thing that our hatred should die out at the very moment she first knew her husband was the man I loved...We spoke a language, so to call it, which no one else in the huge heedless world could understand.
