https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3787.Party_Shoes
I do love Noel Streatfield's work but this made me feel a bit anxious. For half the book, this child labours under a delusion, and one that really matters to her. The adult characters are oblivious. Of course it all works out but I felt worried for her until it did, so I did not enjoy this book as much as others.
A charming book about a young girl living in England with relatives during WW2.
While she is delighted with them, she knows that there are no parties in war time and she will out grow it before there is an opportunity to wear it.
So she and her cousins get together to decide how they can create an occasion for her to wear the dress.
They decide on giving a pageant.
They end up with the entire community involved in the pageant.
The end result exceeds their wildest dreams!I enjoyed the book very much.
I guess it's time to pass it on to my granddaughter!
(If you would like a game for this review, you can count up how many times I say things are lovely...)Selina in Party Shoes has received a frock.
They will hold a pageant in the grounds of the local Abbey and that Selina will be able to wear her frock at that.It's a lovely and ridiculous book this, and it's easy to think that it's solely ridiculous with the benefit of reading this in todays age.
Streatfeild's niece, Nicolette, received a dress during the war and the occasion never presented itself for the dress to be worn.
Charming (in a British sort of way). I liked this a lot more this time round, but I still wish that the war was a more important part of the story--I mean, you don't have Victory in Europe every day but it's passed over in just a few pages. Still, it's a Streatfeild, even it isn't her best. The Andrews' children are downright beasts to Selina, though. I wanted to seriously reach into this book and slap them.
Selina receives a lovely party dress and matching shoes from her godmother in America (the story takes place in England), but since there is no upcoming event to which she can wear the dress, all the children get together and plan a pageant, just so Selina can wear her dress.
The children had put so much work into their acts, and then Phillip came along and usurped the entire production!
Instead of just being an event at which Selina can wear her dress, the pageant was also a realization of Phillip's dream to put on a production at the Abbey, and it was a fitting farewell for the Day family, who were moving out of the Abbey after many generations of Days had lived there.
Everybody knows everybody, especially because the main-character-family has a doctor for a father and six children, plus one niece.
You could easily say that the niece, Selina, is the main character, but I hate to pin one down in a Streatfeild book.
which starts the children on the adventure of putting on a show.This book, like most of her writing, falls into the sub-genre my mother has labeled which is "Working Class People Who Find Redemption and Purpose through Creativity" (it's a mouthful, I know, but it's really a good genre to seek out!)
Really enjoying the Shoes series - they're a great read with one's daughter :) (Skating Shoes still my favorite but this one is lovely too!)
Not as good as the other shoes books I’ve read
This was the first time through for me, even though I've read Streatfeild's other "Shoes" books dozens and dozens of times.
The main character, Selina, has the sad backstory of Rachel and Hilary in  Dancing Shoes, but she evokes nothing of the sympathy and affection we feel for the other quasi-orphans of Streatfeild's stories.
I found producer Philip a bore; this is too bad, as Streatfeild is ordinarily so good at giving her young readers a peek inside the heads and hearts of her adult characters.
I'll go on re-reading the other books and loving them!
We meet Selina, a girl living with her British cousins through the war (World War II).
Selina knows, as does her cousins and aunt and uncle that there will never be a suitable occasion for her to wear the dress and shoes.
Every person has to suggest at least one idea of how Selina can wear her dress and shoes before she outgrows them.
Over half the book is focused on the tiny details of the pageant, each scene of the pageant.
I found most of the book tedious.
I didn't want it to be tedious.
I wanted it to be a delight.
One of the concerns I often have about some of her books, from a Christian perspective, is that while they are encouraging children to work hard at whatever they do (which is a good thing) I fear in case they would inspire impressionable children to take up the activities promoted in the books - whether it be ballet, ice skating, or whatever, and I am not sure that I would want to encourage that.
She wrote many individual stories which people have taken it into their heads to rename to give them a uniformity of title, to apparently construct a series out of them where no connection between the books was ever intended, and to cash in on the popularity and success of Ballet Shoes.
I particularly love the way the pageant evolves and grows until Selina is almost the only person who remembers why the idea was first proposed.It's NS, so full marks as usual for the sibling squabbling and family situations (probably my favourite aspect of her books).
Further bonus marks for capturing the end of WW2, and the ability of small communities to co-operate on big projects, so well.The characters are good fun (Mrs Andrews is my favourite, we mums should stick together) and, while not heavy on description, enough scene-setting that I can imagine the Vicar and his roses, and the Abbey and its grounds.
What an extreme disappointment.
Family Shoes and its sequel, New Shoes, are my favorite Streatfeild books, as evidenced by the battered conditions of their covers.
The characters in Party Shoes seem like mash-ups of characters from her other books, and never become real.
I don't know where in her bibliography Party Shoes falls, but it seems like either a very early effort or very late effort.
I had to immediately start re-reading Family Shoes to get the taste of this disappointment out of my head.
I devoured many others in the Streatfield's "Shoes" books.
She receives a package from her godmother which contains a beautiful party dress and shoes.Of course there's no place to wear them.
The children hit upon the idea of staging a pageant that will allow Selina to wear the dress and shoes.
Over the course of the year, the children write and rehearse the pageant which grows from a small production to one involving what seems like a cast of 1000s.
I also enjoy her writing style and tone, very "stiff upper lip" and proper.
But a few might enjoy it.
I'd never actually read this novel before, but I'm a big fan of Ms Streatfeild's, so shelled out the three?
It was also nice to read the contrast between the Andrews children's relentless optimism and Selina's (and Mrs Andrews) more fretful practicality.
I'm planning on having my fiance read this so he'll get a better idea of what I expect of our impending life as a family.
I don't know how Ms Streatfeild would feel about my use of her novels as a manual on rearing children, but I vastly admire her entirely sensible ideas on the balance between discipline and freedom.
Streatfeild’s ‘Shoe Books’ follow a simple template: charming British protagonist navigates the --insert performing profession here—world while also balancing life at home.
From ages 10-12, there was no literature that ranked higher than “Ballet Shoes”,” Theater Shoes”, and “Dancing Shoes.” But until I found this at a book store closing sale, I had never heard of “Party Shoes.” The plot is simple enough: Selina receives a dress from America at the tail end of WWII, but due to, you know, war, can’t find an occasion to wear it.
Her cousins decide to produce a play for the sole purpose of Selina wearing the dress.
I bought as many of Noel Streatfeild's Shoes books as I could find off eBay last week and I've spent this week reading them.
Like many of Streatfeild's books, this is set during WW2.
Her godmother sends her a fabulous evening dress and shoes, and she and her cousins concoct a pageant, to be held in the backyard of the local Abbey (I imagined this as a very down-at-the-heels Downton Abbey, years after the staff had long left).
As another reviewer said, I didn't connect with the characters as much as I usually do in Streatfeild's books, but the writing and setting is so charming that I enjoyed it regardless.
The setting is semi-rural England at the end of World War II (it was first published soon after).
Selina receives an incredible dress and satin shoes from an American relative, and the children of the Andrews family, with whom she is staying because her parents are prisoners of war in Hong Kong, come up with the idea of doing a pageant so that she can wear them.
Phillip becomes the stage manager and morphs the whole project into something far beyond what the children could coordinate.
Selina is the wall flower who finds her calling as stage manager.
In another "shoe" book by Noel Streatfeild, we meet Selina and her cousins.
Selina has received a gift of a party dress and shoes from her godmother in America.
It is near the end of the second World War in England and there are very few excuses for a girl to wear a party dress.
How will the cousins find costumes for the pageant with rationing still in effect?
In the meantime, Selina is thinking about her mother and father who are prisoners in Hong Kong, and worrying that she will outgrow the dress and shoes before she has an opportunity to wear them.
Noel Streatfeild's "shoe" books were some of my favorite books as a child, and they have lasting power.
I own all of these novels and re-read them regularly.
This book reintroduces Selina, a character we briefly met in an earlier "shoe" book.
She, like all women, needs an excuse to wear a spectacular dress.
Set in wartime England, the novel explores the poverty and rationing that readers of my generation have only heard of, never experienced.
Selina and her cousins decide to hold a pageant so that she can wear her dress.
The characters and the novel are well-written and likable.
A great read, over and over!
Whilst I don't suppose Noel Streatfield ever could write something of the standard I generally give one star to, I found this book disappointing, especially in comparison to her other works.
Plot and characterisation are both rather thin, and the pace is ridiculously slow, but then the story doesn't seem to have anywhere it's trying to get to.
Highlights for me include Selina's characterisation, and Philip's involvement with the pageant; even so, the latter would have worked better as part, rather than the bulk of, the story.
Phoebe and Philip both had hopes of being talented-spotted, and knowing Streatfield, I thought she was hinting that they would be.
It's years since I read this, which was originally published under the title 'Party Frock'.
It's the story of a pageant, an idea that grows after Selina is sent a gorgeous dress and satin shoes from the USA, shortly before the end of World War II.
Her cousins are pretty motivated, in different ways, but the pageant would have been a small and rather disjointed affair had it not been for Philip, home from the war with an injured arm.
Realistic people, a plot that's believable (if unlikely), some humour, some tear-jerking moments, and a great story.
It is amazing how almost an entire village comes together to participate in a pageant organised by kids.
And it all started when Selina, 14, receives a party frock and satin shoes from a godmother in America.
It is World War II, therefore, there are no grand parties for Selina to wear the frock and shoes at her cousins’ home in a rural village in England.
Her six cousins – John, Christopher, Sally, Phoebe, Augustus and Benjamin – come together to put on a pageant that eventually turns out to be an affair that is bigger than expected.Read my review: http://www.booksloveme.com/2012/12/pa...
I love Noel Streatfeild!!!
I love the Shoe books!
I read all of them when I was a kid (or thought I had).
I've even searched them out at used book stores and garage sales, so I can own copies.Well, they've re-released some of them - and, lo and behold, I had never heard of "Party Shoes"!My parents bought it for me for Christmas, and it's just as enjoyable as the rest of the books.
=)"Dancing Shoes" is still my favorite, but this was a fun, light, nostalgic read.
Man, this book was a drag. The first twelve chapters had me praying for the sweet release of death, they were so dull, though it did pick up on chapter thirteen, and I did enjoy it more as it went on. It's a terribly thin premise and plot and it's really hard to care about anything that goes on or any of the characters until the ending. Also, I know it was renamed Party Shoes from Party Frock to bring it in line with the Shoes series, but it's about a party frock, the shoes are merely an afterthought.
When Selina's American godmother sends her a wonderful party frock and matching shoes shortly before the end of World War II, Selina is desperate for an opportunity to wear them, but no suitable parties are on the horizon. Turning to her cousins, with whom she lives, for help, they decide to put on a pageant on the grounds of the local manor. As the children enlist the help of various friends and neighbors the plans mushroom until the very reason for the pageant is almost overlooked.
I'm sorry, but I am so bored. This is way different than the other wonderful books in the series, and there is just so much happening while nothing happens, I can't finish it. "A children's book that can only be enjoyed by children is not a good children's book in the slightest"If you knew this existed and didn't tell me: Shame on you. I found this on a shelf by a happy accident, and look forward to enjoying it.
3.4 starsA young girl is temporarily living with her cousins in the countryside during the World War II. She receives a gift from a relative in America of a beautiful dress and fancy shoes. It is war-time England. There are very few events/places for a young people to wear fancy clothes. The family decides to put on a pageant to provide an occasion for her to wear the dress.I first heard of the “shoe” books from the movie, You’ve Got Mail.
Selina is living with her country cousins in rural England during WWII. When she gets a beautiful dress, her cousins invent a pageant to provide an occasion to wear the dress, and the whole town get involved. Not Streatfeild's best, but an interesting look at kids taking charge. The pageant is set at an abbey and involves the pastor, but there's no religious content.
I thought this was a re-read because I thought I'd read all the "shoes" books. This one didn't seem familiar, though. It's the story of a party dress that arrives unexpectedly from the US and there's no event to wear it to. So, the kids dream up a pageant and it will be part of the costuming. But, with the help of a neighbor, the pageant grows to a much bigger thing.
