https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16368.The_Regatta_Mystery_and_Other_Stories
Parker Pines and Miss Marple were new to me in this collection. Good short and sweet mystery stories, and dapper, polite Hercule Poirot is always great.
Contiene nueve historias de Poirot, Miss Marple y Parker Pyne.
La mejor, en mi opinión, es "Iris amarillo", aunque este cuento me recuerda mucho "El pudding de Navidad", y también "Cianuro espumoso", por otros motivos.
A la pregunta: "¿Sabía usted que padecía del corazón?" Poirot contesta esto: "Sí, pero este ha sido el mejor método".ENGLISH: This book contains nine stories by Poirot, Miss Marple and Parker Pyne.
The best one, in my opinion, is "Yellow Iris", although this story reminds me of "The Christmas pudding", and also "Sparkling cyanide", for different reasons.
An interesting collection of short stories by Christie. Even though it's listed as a Poirot book, the famous Belgian detective only features in 5 of the 9 stories.I've not read any Parker Payne mysteries before, so the two that featured him were interesting. I do think he's one of Christie's weaker characters though.It's nice to have a Miss Marple too, the other story is told by an anonymous narrator.But it's the Poriot stories that stand out, my favorite being 'The Dream' where a millionaire keeps having troubling dreams where he kills himself.
Having read Sophie Hannah’s inadequate Hercule Poirot continuation, Closed Casket, I knew just the thing to read to get the nasty taste out of my mouth: a nice of taste of authentic Agatha Christie. So I turned to the 1939 anthology The Regatta Mystery and Other Stories, which contains nine clever short stories featuring Parker Pyne, Hercule Poirot, and Miss Jane Marple. So delicious, and just what I needed.
Quizás no sea justa con la puntuación que le he dado, pero me sigo confirmando en que las antologías e historias cortas no son lo mío: me siento estafada, me parece que me falta chicha, ya que en su inmensa mayoría se precipita el desenlace.En este caso nos encontramos con 9 historias protagonizadas por los personajes emblemáticos de la señora Christie, siendo los mejores relatos los protagonizados por Poirot, a la sazón el de los tres el que más me ha gustado siempre y los peores los de Parker Pine, rápidos y sin chicha.
While I prefer Agatha Christie's longer works, it's sometimes nice just have a sampling. My favorite of the short stories are the ones with Parker Pyne who in one story reluctantly admits that his first name is Christopher. Pyne is the opposite of fastidious and sometimes pompous M. Poirot or the ever congenial Miss Marple. No, he's in his line of work for the money and makes no apologies for it.
Another classic that only Agatha Christie could create, this book is a complex story filled with unexpected turns.
I definitely want to read Christie's longer works. These short stories were interesting, but didn't have as much charm as And Then There Were None. I also may have liked this more if I had read her other stories and got to know the characters more. I'm excited to read more by her.
This is a set of short stories by Dame Christie, mostly by Poirot but also including Miss Marple, Parker Pyne and others.
The short story was decent but the full book was even better!
Don't care for Parker Pyne and this "problem" was just meh.Yellow Iris: 3.5 stars.
Liked it better as a short story.Miss Marple: 3.5 stars.
Terrible narration by Joan Hickson but the mystery was really good.The Dream: 3.5 stars.
Interesting note: Dame Christie recycled a way to trick the victim from Murder in Mesopotamia.In a Glass Darkly: 2.5 stars.
Figured this out as well, but felt terrible for the murderer!
This short collection of stories featuring detectives Parker Pyne, Miss Marple, and Hercule Poirot was a nice surprise to find on the shelves of my local used bookstore, as I have nearly exhausted the Christie catalog.
The worst offender is "In a Glass, Darkly" which simply does not belong, since it features none of the detectives in the other stories and is not really a mystery at all.
Hercule Poirot is in fine form, and I enjoyed the Parker Pyne stories, since I have read little of him, but the single Miss Marple story is rather dull and affectedly obnoxious.
There's nothing particularly wrong with this one, but it's rare to find mystery-based short stories that are as engrossing as mystery novels are.
They're simply too short to make the tale fun unless the story is a true gem.
Add in that the dated nature of her writing showed through in a disturbing nature for one of the tales (Ladies, jealously to the point of violence is not an attractive trait.) and this is a firm pass for me.
If you're anyone else, give this one a pass and focus your energy on one of her many other novels.
*****2.5*****The book does and doesn’t deliver what it promises: stories with Miss Marple, Hercule Poirot, and Parker Pyne.
The description makes it seem like the three come together, but we really have short stories, most involving Poirot, one involving Miss Marple, two involving Parker Pyne, and one with an unnamed narrator (“In a Glass Darkly,” my favorite).
My ratings for the other individual stories are posted in my “reading activity” for this book.
It’s a light, quick read, something to fill in a gap between other books (I’m waiting for The Island of Dr. Moreau to come in from ThriftBooks).
The three detectives don’t actually come together in this collection.
I listened to it this time through and that may affect my rating, as I like Fraser, Suchet and Hickson as narrators, but there was a forth person who narrated some of the stories and I didn't care for him.
From the first few sentences I was entranced and amused."Yellow Iris" was clearly the foundation for Christie's novel "Remembered Death", which is also known as "Sparkling Cyanide".
I recently read the full-length version so it was interesting to see all the similarities to this story.
"Problem at Sea" was the foundation for one of my favorite (eponymous) BBC episodes with Suchet as Poirot.
I have mixed feelings about this collection. Some of the stories I like, especially those featuring Hercule Poirot. However, after listening to a couple of the Mr. Parker Pyne mysteries, I've concluded I don't like them (at least not nearly as much as Poirot or Miss Marple), and would have liked this collection better if he wasn't included. Also, there is some racism in a couple of these stories (can't remember which ones), which shows how dated these are.
Some of the authors most loved characters appear in this work of short stories and it's highly entertaining and delightful. Included are six shorts done performed by different narrators and was well done.
2.5It's entertaining, not her best but I never enjoyed her short stories as much as the novels. Es entretenido, no su mejor trabajo pero nunca disfruté las historias cortas tanto como las novelas.
Agatha Christie has a lot of fun with her stories. Great reads!
"The Regatta Mystery and other stories" by Agatha Christie feature one woo-woo, new-to-me problem-solver Mr Parker Pyne, Miss Marple (already read in The Complete), and Hercule Poirot, already familiar from TV.1 The Regatta Mystery - When American Leathern's guache daughter Eve bets sheer nylons that she can magic away her host Pointz's precious diamond, the plasticine supposed to be holding the gem in place of paste is empty; guest Evan Llewellyn, suspect for tossing coin out to newspaper seller by lovely widow Rustington especially, consults Parker Pyne.(Mr P recognizes Amalfi man-wife team with confederate waiter who took out plate with jewel stuck on plate bottom with chewing gum, copy smashed with wine glass.)2 The Mystery of the Bagdad (sic) Chest - Hastings narrates, Poirot consulted by lovely widow Clayton, whose jealous husband found stabbed inside trunk at home of close male friend Major Rich, who hosted dancing and drinking party.
This was a collection of short stories starring various Christie detectives.
I do find it humorous that both my favorite and least favorite stories starred the same detective, Parker Pyne.
My favorite story was the title story, "The Regatta Mystery".
It was my first introduction to Parker Pyne and I liked his style.
Very similar to Hercule Poirot, my favorite Christie detective.
I did not like "Problem at Pollensa Bay" also starring Parker Pyne.
I thought the resolution of the problem was ridiculous.
The other stories were a decent mixture of Agatha Christie's style.
I really enjoyed this set of stories. There is a mix of novellas featuring each of her three detectives. I had never read anything with the detective, Parker Pyne. That was a real treat. My favorites of the bunch were The Problem at Pollensa Bay and In a Glass Darkly. Both of them had a nice little twist that I didn't expect. The real interesting part was that neither one of them featured my favorite detective, Hercule Poirot. If you haven't read this set, I highly recommend it.
This was great! She really is a master of mystery writing. None of these are longer than about 30 pages yet they all have a wonderful little mystery in them. Presented, questioned and solved all in such a short space and all well done. Hercule, Miss Marple, even Parker Pyne makes an appearance. Certainly worth the read. Not a wasted word in the bunch.
I love Christie's books, but cannot NOT mention the gross sexism and racism on display. Even Poirot isn't immune from the -isms on parade in some stories. Great mysteries, horrible portrayal of women, the poor/servant class and 'foriegners'. Read with caution.
This was a good set of short stories! I'd heard one of them before and I didn't like the Miss Marple story, but the remaining Parker Pyne (new detective to me!) and the Poirot cases were great! Short stories aren't usually my favorite medium but these worked out well for me.
3.5 StarsNice book of short mysteries. I was introduced to Parker Pyne, Miss Marple; and of course, Hercule Poirot. I enjoyed all of these little stories and am ready to start reading some Miss Marple. She is a feisty old gal... :D
(hide spoiler)]The Mystery of the Bagdad ChestPoirot and Hastings talk about a case in which the facts are not in dispute: man planned to go on a trip, he left a note for the host that he would not be coming to the party planned later that night, the next day he was found dead in the trunk and the host was blamed for his death.The widow comes to Poirot and asks him to take on the case as she believes the host is innocent.
An amusing story about Mr. Parker Pyne helping a young couple convince the mother of the man to like his girlfriend.- Yellow Iris - Poirot is mysteriously called to a dinner party, stops a murder and solves an old murder case- Miss Marple Tells a Story - quite the rambling story as Miss Marple recounts to her nephew how she was consulted and solved a murder mystery involving someone dressing up as a chamber maid- The Dream - I had read this story before and it was fun trying to solve the mystery by vaguely remembering the general story.
I don't know how many other works I'll come across Pyne but I look forward to it.I'm not sure why The Regatta Mystery was chosen to be the lead story (perhaps to have the neat cover here) but not everything needs to have Poirot as the pull.
It's got to be part of Hercule's charm and why he's so very loved.This is a good collection of shorts by Christie and I can cross off more of her work as "Read" in my quest to get all of her works under my skull eventually.
A collection of memorable short stories featuring all the Queen of Mystery’s beloved characters: Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple and Parker Pyne.
I was very glad to find it on the shelve of my local library ready for the taking.In this novel the titles present are:The Regatta MysteryThe Mystery of the Baghdad ChestHow Does Your Garden Grow?Problem at Pollensa BayYellow IrisMiss Marple Tells a StoryThe DreamIn a Glass DarklyProblem at SeaAll the stories show the brilliant mind of Agatha Christie and her great plots full of twists and hidden motives.
Being a fan of Hercule Poirot above all the Christie’s characters, my favourite story is The Mystery of the Baghdad Chest, the almost-perfect murder.
A short collection that I recommend if you’re looking for a quick Agatha Christie read!
La maggior parte di questi racconti sono, ahimè, immensamente prevedibili, ma non per questo da buttare.
Al contrario Tommy e Tuppence, che pure sono molto simpatici, non possono entrare a far parte di questa cricca vincente (sì, tipo il "You can't sit with us" di Gretchen Wieners in Mean Girls).★★★★✰: "Il sogno", "In uno specchio scuro", "Un problema in alto mare"★★★✰✰: "La stella del mattino", "Il mistero della cassapanca spagnola", "Come va il vostro giardino?", "Il caso della baia di Pollensa", "Iris gialli", "Miss Marple racconta una storia"
He watches Rich go out, then he gains admission, is left alone to write a note, quickly bores those holes and hides inside the chest.”Excerpt FromThe Regatta Mystery and Other Stories: Featuring Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple, and Mr. Parker PyneAgatha Christie- This part right here reminded me of a movie I watched a long time ago.
The plot of the movie was the husband leaving his family when actually he is just in the abandoned house in front of their house watching how his family will be like without him in their lives.For the second story or the second chapter, I personally believe that the murder plot was awesome.
