https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/426117.Call_to_Arms
Lu Xun is considered by many to be the greatest modern Chinese writer (he died in the 1930s).
His hometown is Shaoxing, which is where I am living right now, so I thought I should read this.
Probably his most famous story, "the True Story of Ah Q," is funny, almost black-humor funny, but ends on quite a dark note.P.S. I think this is the only translation available (Selected Stories of Lu Xun uses the same one as this Chinese/English one), but this printing, from a Chinese publisher, is riddled with typos.
Ja nebūtu garā (gandrīz trešdaļa grāmatas), pamīšus smieklīgā un skumjā stāsta par ciemata dzērāja Ah Q dzīves spožumu un postu, ieliktu trīs zvaigznītes un atliktu "interesantās, bet droši vien ne pārlasāmās" klasikas plauktā. Bet Ah Q stāsts ir brīnišķīgs un pēc naftalīna nesmird. Nav pat neviena mirstoša zīdaiņa!
It is at once a time machine into pre-independence, dynastic China with the looming influence of colonialism and revolutions towards the republican China.
These are the themes of the two most notable works in this collection, "Madman's Diary" and "The True Story of Ah Q".
Other stories features timeless stories such as reminiscing a childhood memory of watching outdoor movies (Chinese operas in the 1900s), the invariant phenomena of older generations complaining about the youngsters, and descriptions of anxiety and panic attacks in literature, which is forward-thinking for his time.
A thoughtful and contemplative collection to read from time to time.
吶喊一書應該是我對魯迅記憶猶新的一本書了。 魯迅那時代正是清朝剛滅亡，社會腐敗，民怨沸騰的時代，魯迅用詼諧幽默，亦帶點諷刺的手法來抒發對我國的批判思想。例如「狂人日記」，看完這本「代表中國傳統」的著作，不禁從心一笑。在淪於一個無知社會裏面，人心所透露的本性都一一展現出來。「 孔乙己」，身為一位讀書人，食古不化，最終喪失尊嚴，淪為偷竊之人，可有可無。 魯迅身處在涼薄與無情的社會，如何推翻貪墨成風的統治，全靠他的一雙手，「吶喊」改變民國初國民的精神，改變他們的化石思想，改變社會的不幸！
这是属于那个年代的书，现在看来确实有点像鲁迅说的那样，手法有点幼稚
锋芒毕露
I found this collections of stories quite charming.
Having read almost nothing of Chinese literature and much less of the literature of such a pivotal moment in history of modern China, I had no expectations for this book.
The stories are mainly about the day-to-day of the common people and allow the reader to get quite a good feel of the atmosphere of early 20th century China.
Certainly an interesting book and I would gladly recommend it to anyone curious to expand their perception of what China was.
It's been years since last time I read a part in the book. Many passages therein are selected in the textbook of middle school . But recall my school time, these passages seemed leave me less impression and shock than they do now. All words and sentences used by the author are so perfect that cannot be replaced, that shape every character vividly, as well as every look and every thought on the character touchable. From passages, the author, through satire, displays his strong motivation to save country.
(Read in original Chinese) I really like Lu Xun's writing style. My book has an intro describing Lu Xun as a mirror that was necessarily broken because he was writing about a China that was broken. He is matter-of-fact and brief, which makes reading his short stories a very unique experience. I particularly liked The Hair Story, Diary of a Mad Man, and Hometown. Of course, The True Story of Ah Q is in this collection, but that story stands by itself.
Lu Xun's novels tell us the culture and lifestyles of the early 20th centuries' China through his realistic storytelling method. In the political and cultural transition period, characters in his stories go through conflicts between the long traditions and new ones, sometime suffer extreme poverty, but some of them such as 孔乙己 and 阿Q keep positive attitudes in life, which imbues their stories with the pleasant point of view.
I was skeptical about this book at first, but Lun Xu's self-deprecating style bases heartbreaking poetry in a shell of poverty and, inevitably, comedy. It averages about one typo every two pages, but it's worth slogging through the technical errors to get to the powerful style beneath them.
I didn't read every story, but I think I read at least 2/3 of them (original Chinese version). Anyway, it's been years and I don't have the will to finish. The stories are too much of a social critique for me to really appreciate, I think.
Lu Xun's writings can be strange and depressing, but reading them in the context of a failing China, Lu Xun's short stories are powerful and show a profound hope that China will rise above her current problems.
The stories reflect the time of political and social transition in China during early 1900.
好多课本中的文章。这次终于看完了整本，以为是铁屋子里的呐喊，却只看见悲凉又压抑的铁屋子。只有头一篇的“一件小事”算是有些光亮的罢。也或许，在那样的年代，让人看见自己的光景，叫人晓得屋子里的黑，就已经是叫人觉醒的呐喊了。
Καταπληκτικές οι ιστορίες και υποδειγματική η μετάφραση (απ'ευθείας από την κινεζική) του Σωτήρη Χαλικιά, του πιο καταξιωμένου Έλληνα σινολόγου.
Stopped at Ah Q. Hopefully will pick up this book again!
很多片段都是课本的基础读物了，小时候也不是没读过呐喊彷徨等等，但是也不过是过过脑子罢了。总的来讲文字确实触动人心，虽然如他所说，不过是记载些故事文字，不值得过多解读。个人认为也确实是这样。不过这次再拿出来看，感觉鲁迅对中国人行为与心理的描写确实把握得太好太好，让人读起来不由得有些难以言表的感触。
