https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149629.The_Way_to_Dusty_Death
Το πρώτο βιβλίο του μακ Λιν που διαβάζω και, έχοντας πλήρη επίγνωση της σοβαρότητας της ακόλουθης δήλωσης, δεν θα αισθανθώ καμία έλλειψη αν δεν διαβάσω άλλο.
It is a quick read full of action and larger-than-life heroes and baddies in the old style, i.e. good or evil, strong or weak, with few grey areas to make you worry about questioning their motives.The book was written at a time when deaths among Formula 1 racing drivers were commonplace.
This only changed because British racing champion Jackie Stewart, after witnessing too many deaths of his friends and colleagues, was brave enough to go head-to-head with the sport’s managing body in public and set up a racing driver’s association to protest until some positive action was taken.
Only a hint, in words of Johnny Harlow (the hero of the book) - "There are other ways to a dusty death than losing control on a racing track".I enjoyed this, as always is the case with McLean for me.
It’s true to a large extent in Dusty Death as well, but only for the majority of other characters of the book; for the reader, the suspense is more or less uncovered quite early in the book.As a die-hard McLean fan, I would recommend it to anyone who loves thrillers.
Nowhere near MacLean's best, but it's another childhood favourite of mine.
In this book, AM takes his formula to the world of motorsport.
Anyone with a passing knowledge of motorsport will probably spot a few errors here and there, but it's part of the charm.
It's an easy-reading adventure story with the usual AM twists and characters (heavy-drinkers, baddies, ever-present 'Mary'), and it's not too long.
If there are any teenaged motorsport enthusiasts reading this review, this book is for you.Objectively, I guess this is a 3 star book.
But I'm going to give it 4..!Actually I'd really like to read it again!
The Way to Dusty Death is a thriller giving testimony to Alistair Maclean’s brilliance. Johnny Harlow- the main character, is no ordinary racing driver and as suspected his mission is a race against time; ‘the way to dusty death’ being a clever play on words. The villains are those whom one would expect, but Maclean is too devious to disclose their motives until well towards the end when one is perched on the edge of one’s seat keen to turn the pages and see the world put to right. This is Maclean at his best and a well-recommended read.Brian Wilson
An old favourite...Read it for old times sake...pretty nice old fashioned story, men with strong jaws and strong minds, beautiful women, dark villians, and misguided youth. A formula but an enjoyable formula, none the less...
fantasic read really enjoyed this one ! recommend !!!
Daft stuff. Mid career MacLean, nowhere near his best, but a few nice touches.
At least he does stuff, which is more than I can say for the owner's daughter, Mary, who spends the entire book crying and saying "Oh, Johnny!" She added very little to the book and I would have been far happier had she been written out entirely.The best parts of the book were the technical descriptions of the cars (especially in that crash at the beginning, horrific as it was), the sheer craziness of the hijinks at the end, and MacLean's characteristic dry-witted, clever narration.
Recommended more for F1 fans who also happen to like MacLean's work and have tried something else by him already.
A pleasant enough read but, as only the third Alistair Maclean novel I've read, my least favourite of the three.There is plenty of mystery in the story since the characters' thoughts, even that of the protagonist, Harlow, are never written - only their actions - so we are left to guess at their intentions.
Their words to each other are almost the only insight into the true character of Harlow, and it is through their exchanges that one can develop a vested interest in the outcome of the story.I enjoyed The Way to Dusty Death, but I much preferred Caravan to Vaccares, I hope the rest of Maclean's novels are more like that one.
Olihan vauhdikas kirja!
Tosiaan heti alusta lähtien nappasi otteeseensa eikä meinannut irti päästää.
Hauska sinänsä, kun ajattelee miten erilainen maailma formuloissa oli tuohon aikaan verrattuna nykyiseen, jossa Kimi ja kumppanit työtään tekevät.
Ei olisi nykypäivänä varmaankaan mahdollista miltään osin nämä tapahtumat.Vaikka kirja onkin likimain mahdoton juoneltaan, on sitä hauska lukea.
MacLeanilla on kirjoissaan useimmiten (ainakin niissä jotka olen nyt lukenut) päähenkilö, joka on kivikasvoinen sankari, jolle mikään vastoinkäyminen ei ole kuin pieni hidaste päämäärän edessä.
Vaikka läpi harmaan kiven -sanonta kuvastaa hyvin näitä kirjojen sankareita.
Silloin aikoinaan näitä piti olla.
Nykyään sankarit ovat heikompia, haavoittuvampia, mutta silti tarpeen vaatiessa aivan yhtä kovapintaisia.Erinomainen kirja luettavaksi kesällä, lomalla ja mökillä.
In this book, Mr. MacLean gives us an insight into what goes on behind the scenes in this emperor of sports.
Wherever there is a lot of money involved in sports these irregularities are bound to happen.
But how can a race driver function when he has no trust on the supporting team.
Really a ver pertinent question.The Ace Formula I driver in this book finds his own means to defeat the efforts of the one individual in his team who would otherwise have managed to drive him out of the Formula I circuit.An interesting book, written in the inimitable style of AM, quite worth reading while traveling, I suppose!
this is a must read for all the motorsport fans out there….brilliant breath-taking….the story races 
A solid, shorter thriller by the master. In this one, the story is set around Formula 1 Grand Prix racing, and it is not until about half way through the novel that the true plot is unfolded. At first it seems to be the story of a young but wildly successful driver, winning race after race with increasingly wreckless driving and behavior, until finally a horrible crash kills another driver.Gradually, we find out there is far more to the story and it winds up another fine outing by MacClean, with another one of his brilliant, ruthless, and driven heroes.
A top racing driver causes a deadly crash changing the lives of many...
But did he really cause it?
While entertaining, this story relied on people constantly making assumptions, some of which were just a jump too far.
Many revelations came out at the end, some would have been better to have been exposed sooner to give the book more depth.
The main character was too emotionless until near the end and by then a bit hard to warm to.
The main female character was two dimensional, very pure and good, you know the sort.
A lively tale but stretches the imagination in some unlikely waysThis one was a quick read. MacLean still relies on his old habit of concealing information from the reader to maintain suspense, but it seems less annoying in this book than in some of his earlier works. Also, I found it difficult to believe that someone at the pinnacle of Grand Prix racing would *also* possess such unrivaled investigatory and clandestine skills. Still, if you can get past that objection, it's an entertaining read.
If you're in the mood for action, conspiracy, and intrigue, Alistair MacLean's books are always good for a quick, fun read. While the plot of this one isn't as complex as some of his other books, the action moves along at a nice clip and the characters are interesting enough that the story never drags. Plus, who doesn't love a conspiracy set in the world of Formula One racing? (A confession: this book may have adversely affected the safety of my driving back in high school...)
I began re-reading Alistair MacLean after thirty years in the fall of 2009. My first two titles were Caravan to Vaccares and this novel. I remember vividly reading it when it was first published. I found I still remembered almost all the names, the setting, and the plot conventions. It is pure MacLean, but a break from the more typical espionage stories. And so it goes.
To nie ma znaczenia jak stara jest książka. Klasyczna sensacja jest zawsze ... dobra. Może tylko dzwonienie z budek telefonicznych i czekanie na połączenia przez 5 min. dzięki "francuskim" telefonistkom, będzie nie zrozumiałe dla młodych. Poza tym akcja, akcja i jeszcze intryga. Nie jakaś zawiła, postacie ostro zarysowane i ... akcja. To cały Alistair. Polecam.
Pretty par for the course with MacLean, hard to figure out what is really going on through most of the book, but then in the end everything comes clear. This one is about a race car driver who may or may not be losing his edge, but is experiencing all kinds of disaster on the track. Pretty good read, but kind of contrived.
From the first chapter the book grips and it doesn't let go until the final page. By today's standards it probably is old fashioned but who cares as long as the book is an entertaining and enjoyable read and this book is certainly both.
This was a quick, fun, novel. The vivid racing scenes, the surprises, and plot twists kept me flipping pages. Alistair MacLean’s is a solid thriller writer, his books are exciting and delightfully readable.
I picked this up for one of my long train journeys and I am glad that I read it when I actually had time to while away. The technical aspects were nicely done but overall it was cheesy and cliched! I could never get myself to care for anyone or anything in the plot.
Not much to say here. perfectly fine adventure/sort-of-mystery book. i've got a couple others by him (also rescued from the 'rents basement), and i can't say i'm now burning to read them, but i won't avoid them either.
Romance, Adventure, Mystery. What else could you ask for, in this silly yet engrossing tale about the world of Formula 1 car racing. MacLean used the concept of the anti-hero in novels the best, and this is evidently clear in this novel.
Racing ActionThis is non stop action from start to finish ... Mystery as to who the villains are but no mystery as to what the hero will do to them ... Action, racing and getting even ... A good one from start to finish ...
So far, this was the least fun MacLean I've read. Dull protagonist, typical plot set-up (hero pretends to be a weakling but secretly is plotting), no clear reason why bad guys couldn't have been thwarted sooner, snoozefest. Only thing good is the title. Penis-Extender = Race-Car in this one.
An enjoyable thriller and something a little off the beaten path for Alistair MacLean. Lean and fast, like the cars the main character drives. Not a book I'll need to read again, but a pleasant diversion.
I am a huge fan of auto racing, primarily NASCAR Sprint Cup but any racing will do as long as it involves 2 cars or trucks competing against each other. So I was delighted to see this book was about racing. The only quibble I have is that this book didn't include more about the racing.
Formula one champion Johnny Harlow notices that too many bad things are happening in too many places. When he starts to investigate, he is blamed for the latest accident.
