https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10362717-tender-is-the-night-the-last-tycoon
honestly, I did not finish the whole book, but I did finish Tender is the Night, which was the novel I originally wanted to read.
Like hard (read The Great Gatsby a couple of years ago).
Young American actress Rosemary H is vacationing at the French Riviera with her mother, around the 1920s, and there she meets the Drivers -Dick and Nicole.
Rosemary becomes infatuated with Dick, who is a psychiatrist and he feels flattered by this but he is in love with Nicole.
Before anything happens, Rosemary leaves Europe and will meet Dick years later when they actually have an affair.
Scott Fitzgerald, but I will persist.
I want to read his first novel, This Side of Paradise.
Truth to be told, while talking about Tender is the Night and The Last Tycoon, I found it hard to finish this book.
Partly it was my mood, partly it was the stories.
I failed to engage with the stories and the characters behind them.
Especially with The Last Tycoon.
Tender is the Night was engaging at times and read it with interest, but still, at times I felt that the storytelling was quite flat.I wouldn't recommend to start your acquaintance with Fitzgerald's writing with this book.
I love reading Fitzgerald’s prose. I love his sentences, the way he talks about his characters. It’s like spending time having an enchanting conversation.
Una sua enorme qualità è la sua complessità, l'intreccio di tematiche che ne fanno un romanzo completo.Due anni fa ero rimasto affascinato dalla descrizione della decadenza dell'alta società americana nel primo dopoguerra, e dalle situazioni più vistose della storia d'amore tra Dick e Nicole.In questa lettura invece mi sono scoperto intrigato dal personaggio di Dick.Il ragazzo cresciuto dal basso, grazie al proprio cervello e agli insegnamenti del padre, il brillante studente di medicina, l'astro nascente della psichiatria, che finisce innamorato di una paziente e alla fine la sposa, consapevole di devolvere la sua intera vita alla sua cura, un lavoro a tempo pieno che spesso si sovrapporrà al ruolo di marito.Una situazione complicata, per l'orgoglio di Dick, dall'enorme ricchezza di lei: il fatto che lui abbia insistito per mantenere la propria indipendenza, comprando da solo le proprie cose e addirittura evidenziando come una piccola parte del terreno della loro casa e il capanno dove lavora siano stati comprati con i suoi soldi, le uniche parti della proprietà che può sentire sue.I due hanno dei figli, ma questi vengono visti come figure marginali sia nel libro che dai genitori stessi.
Unlike reviews of newly published books, they are not needed to inform potential readers or boost initial sales, and a writer long deceased is generally assumed to have no interest in new opinions expressed about the quality of his or her work.
However, two other aspects of the book cause greater concern and raise more serious questions.The book begins with Rosemary Hoyt, a young American actress, narrating how she came to meet Dick Diver and his wife, Nicole, at a gathering of the idle-rich on a beach in the south of France, and it is natural for the reader to assume that Rosemary is the central character.
A beautifully written tale that really depicts the inter-twined lives of its characters in an engrossing way, giving depth and compassion for those who initially seem so surface and shallow. It is a pity that The Last Tycoon remained unfinished as it drew me in with an engaging portrayal of the film world at its conception.
Beautiful book delving into the difficulties of love and wealth and the fragility of the mind of what at first seem to be charismatic, perfect characters of the 1920's-30s. Even with wealth and seemingly endless leisure, everyone hides dark secrets and no one is truly happy.
There is a lot of the Fitzgeralds in this story. A very human tale, indeed, on how two people stop being in love with each other.
The way Fitzgerald writes (the language he uses) is going to stay with me for a long time.
The Last Tycoon by F. Scott Fitzgerald, adapted for The BBCA different version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/This is a note on the adaptation for the BBC, not the original material.The Last Tycoon is an unfinished novel by the famous F. Scott Fitzgerald.The author of The Great Gatsby has this novel and others on the lists of best books, from Modern Library to The Friendswood List:- http://www.mo
Scott Fitzgerald, Ernest Hemingway.The novel writer has also been working in Hollywood, where he gained an insight into the movie making business.Monroe Stahr is the hero of the narrative and it is considered that he is based on a real film producer: Irving Thalberg.At the same time, a rival was inspired by a studio head that I think was much more famous: Louis B.
I was deeply disappointed with both of these novels.
I didn't get any more enjoyment out of Tender is the Night either, which honestly breaks my heart because I've loved literally everything I've read of his before this, having read the precious three novels and many of his short stories.
But honestly I just didn't care about what was going on and all the characters felt so flat.
Tell you what though, I love Zelda even more after this if the man was anything like Dick because my girl deserved better.
Having read some of the other reviews I am relieved to find that I am not the only one who found 'Tender is the Night' a disappointing read. The scene setting and period details were captured perfectly and the characters well rounded but I found the storyline sometimes difficult to follow. I didn't warm to the characters enough to care about what happened to them. Perhaps Fitzgerald was simply aiming to portray their transient and shallow lives or maybe I just didn't understand the subtleties.
Couldn’t really start it or finish it. I mean I’ve read it before but this time meh, I’m just not into reading about posh Americans abroad byeee
It is a smooth, glacier movement, with enough room to leave you to decide whether he becomes a failure or simply moves into an age of man where a lack of fulfilment becomes apparent.
Fitzgerald begins to write his acute wit as rudeness; things best left thought and not uttered.
{/effulgent Fitzgeraldness}Fitzgerald sums up his time, and in doing so he goes a little too far into pronouncement.
"Therese Raquin" is a noirish precursor to James Cain's "The Postman Always Rings Twice" in its darkness as lust runs black.
Fitzgerald and Highsmith show Europe being absorbed by Americans, hopefully the good influences but not always.
This book, the last of Fitzgerald's, is a lesser affairs than the others I've so far read- shorter, less refined, and lacking for the most part the graceful eloquence of his writing.
At times, especially towards the beginning of the book, Fitzgerald does surpass himself for quality of writing- perhaps the greatest of his writing I've yet read.
But for the most part, the writing comes across as clunkier, less fluid, more confused than in his other works.The plot and characters, too, are to me less sophisticated and well-constructed than his other books- which is natural, considering the book is unfinished.
The story starts in post-war France with Dick and Nicole Diver playing the Don and Betty roles from Mad Men. Terribly sophisticated, the toast of the town, but with a past.
At a certain point there is "an episode" and the story then flashes back for awhile to explain how Dick and Nicole had arrived at that point in time.
Without giving away too much of the story, it appears that Dick had rescued Nicole.
The present day story then continues as the Diver's marriage crumbles and Dick himself needs rescuing, but it's not to be.
I have read Tender is the Night twice.https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...I still have not got around to reading The Last Tycoon.
I loved this book in high school. What a disappointment.
Really enjoyed Last Tycoon, wasn't so hot on Tender is the Night, though it was pretty good too.
Tender is the Night: 3/5The Last Tycoon: 4/5
niets meer dan een romannetje
even better the second time around
Não gostei. Faço minhas as palavras de outra leitora:"It felt I was reading a celebrity magazine more than a story"
