https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34527.Feet_of_Clay
The characters are established, the setting is solid, and Pratchett is solidly in control of his craft here.As I said before (or at least meant to say) the second book about the city watch was twice as good as the first.
Similarly, this book is twice as good as the second one.
Putting it solidly in the familiar A+ quality book that comprises easily half of Pratchett's work.Of personal interest to me is the introduction of the Golem into the Discworld.
Is this book worth your time?
What interests me most about Terry Pratchett is that he explores (with great subtlety and wit) issues that other fantasy and speculative writers only pay lip service to -- racism, sexism, identity politics.
Pratchett's hero, Sam Vimes, dislikes everyone: Dwarves, trolls, werewolves, gnomes, and, most especially, vampires.
He is an equal opportunity curmudgeon, but his dislikes (with the exception of vampires) are not based on the identity of "the other" as much as they are on the identity of Sam Vimes.
He is as unsparing in his assessment of himself as he is aware of the faults of the world around him.And if this sounds like a dry assessment, then I have done Terry Pratchett a great disservice.
Discworld Watch Lineup by Ligeias-Ghost from Deviant ArtI highly recommend to read editions that have illustrations of coat-of-arms that appeared in the story.
At my first read from a library book, it was a hardcover Gollancz edition with the coat-of-arms illustrations before the story began.
I would have problem imagine the coat-of-arms without the illustrations.
For people who had read other Watch stories, they could see the patterns in plots resemble the previous novels, with some improvements.
They have more shining in other Watch novels.Although I still recommend Guards!
for starter novel of Watch series, and if you like Guards!
This may be the funniest Discworld novel.And definitely one of the best.Terry Pratchett, ever the clever turn of phrase artist, is here in rare form.
And Foul Old Ron takes a bath.Just kidding.Besides the gigglingly good word play and the Ankh-Morpork action, Sir Terry explores themes of monarchy, leadership, gender roles and what it means to be alive.If you’ve been thinking about getting started reading the Discworld (yes, you should) this would not be a bad start.
The butcher, the baker ...23 March 2015 A part of me, upon learning of Sir Terry's death, thought that it was only fitting to make the next book that I read a Discworld novel; which turned out to be this one. I won't say anything about Sir Terry here as I have already written a blog post on his passing and instead will just speak about this book. In fact, it turned out that so far this was one of the best discworld novels that I have read (and that is saying something since there are quite a few
The problem is that this book was written quite a few years before Will Smith took to the stage playing a cop in a movie that give the term 'loosely based' a completely new definition (and for those who have not seen the film, but read the book, the only similarities between the two is that they have robots in them – well, not quite, but you get the picture).
Actually, to our modern mind, golems really seem to be a magical version of a robot, and Sir Terry plays that idea up to no end.
It is fascinating to read the Ankh-Morpork City watch books in order and see how the Watch and the characters develop through the novels.And here's looking at you Sherlock...“Samuel Vimes dreamed about Clues.
And he distrusted the kind of person who’d take one look at another man and say in a lordly voice to his companion, “Ah, my dear sir, I can tell you nothing except that he is a left-handed stonemason who has spent some years in the merchant navy and has recently fallen on hard times,” and then unroll a lot of supercilious commentary about calluses and stance and the state of a man’s boots, when exactly the same comments could apply to a man who was wearing his old clothes because he’d been doing a spot of home bricklaying for a new barbecue pit, and had been tattooed once when he was drunk and seventeen and in fact got seasick on a wet pavement.
It may be that I have a better affinity with crime driven stories so I can get on board with the plot quicker but I just think it might have something to do with the cast of characters which add to the story.With this being the 3rd entry in the sub-series the main set of characters are well fleshed out by now with the reader knowing their nuances and this means more fun can be had with them and also allow some of the side characters to have more of an input and make for some of the more humorous moments in the novel.
Uvek kad počnem da čitam Pračeta kako bi me razveselio, završim tužniji nego pre.
Ovaj pasus je dobar primer zašto: “For Cockbill Street was where people lived who were worse than poor, because they didn’t know how poor they were.
‘No one’s too poor to buy soap.’ Of course, many people were.
But in Cockbill Street they bought soap just the same.
That was Cockbill Street, where what you mainly ate was your pride.“Jer, uz par korekcija, ova(j niz) rečenica nije samo srpska, nego je i univerzalna.I tako, ja uvek Pračetovu knjigu završim depresivniji nego što sam bio.
„Глинени крака“ е роман за относителността.
При всички случаи си приклещен и го знаеш.„… обществото, каквото ще да означава проклетата думичка, не винаги си пада по хората, които вършат или казват необходимото.“Гóлемите на Тери Пратчет удрят по масата и задават логичния въпрос „Какво е да си жив?“.
Ако е вярно (защото Мъск е един от по-ерудираните хора, за които се сещам), все пак ние душа нямаме ли… А гóлемите...?„Но сега цялата машина, която бръмчеше толкова тихичко, че всички забравяха за съществуването ѝ и я бъркаха с естественото устройство на света, изведнъж пристърга зловещо.“Обществото е капризен и сложен механизъм.
His job is to run the forensics, His role in the book is to open up the questions of minority members of the force and gender identity.Pratchett uses various species to show how everyone has prejudices and how getting to know a member of a species does a great deal to dispel them.
Well, it does if one is a good person.
Pratchett uses magical creatures just as Rowling does, to continually push at the definition of "human" and to demonstrate how people can behave morally without the imposition of gods or religions.
Pratchett's funnier, though.Personal copy.
As always, I love this book...after all, it shows Sir Samuel Vimes doing some of his finest work...Some quotes I loved:"I FIND THE BEST APPROACH IS TO TAKE LIFE AS IT COMES." (stated by DEATH and reminiscent of my favorite song...)"The only thing more difficult than getting him to grasp an idea was getting him to let go of it.""Mysteries had a way of getting bigger if you didn't solve them quickly.
So I suppose I've got to be on their side.""Atheism is a religious position.
In fact, it may even have given my previous favorite Discworld book, Wyrd Sisters, some competition.I was worried at first that this book would rehash old ground with the “let’s get ourselves a puppet king” thing.
Parts of it actually kept me guessing, and I was truly interested in finding out what would happen next as opposed to just sitting back, going along for the ride, and enjoying the humor like I normally do when I read these books.
I enjoyed the introduction of that in the second Watch book, and things got even livelier in this book.
This seemed like one of Pratchett's better ones in terms of humor.
Reseña en español: click aquí.Mis otras reseñas de Mundodisco.English review soon. This is the Spanish edition of Feet of Clay
Qué más se puede pedir en este mundo.Para mí, la mejor novela del arco argumental de la Guardia.
Profundiza en la discriminación racial y de género, como también debate sobre qué es lo que hace a una persona ser persona, y dónde se encuentra el alma.Así dicho parece que me estoy tirando el rollo porque pensaréis que los libros de Pratchett son para reírse y poco más, pero os equivocáis si os quedáis en la superficie y no encontráis las píldoras de sabiduría que guarda en cada libro.
The Watch commander, Sam Vimes, has an additional problem: someone is poisoning Lord Vetinary, the Patrician.
In the lead of that parade is the protagonist Sam Vimes: a cynical policeman, a recovering alcoholic, and one of the few good guys in this predominantly gloomy book.
His police force includes not only humans but also a werewolf, a dwarf, a gargoyle, several trolls, and too many fools to mention.
I mean, good grief, trolls and dwarfs, fine, even the undead are alive in a way, even if it is a bloody awful way’ – Vimes caught Angua’s eye and went on – ‘for the most part.
SPOILERSSS.So this is a City Watch book, and that means several things: Captain Samuel Vimes doing good deeds and being very grouchy about it, Carrot being overly literal and good at his job while everyone likes him with no effort on his part whatsoever, and the other members of the Watch being also good at their jobs, except almost by accident.
As with all of Pratchett's books, you're not really sure what you're in for at the beginning of the book, and it all seems to be pretty random, but then it starts to come together, and you're like, oh.
Haré una reseña más extensa en mi blog, pero debo decir que este libro me ha gustado mucho, casi más
Vampires, golems, female dwarfs, multiculturalism, CSI, slavery, another attempt to overthrow Vetinari, regicide, democracy, it all comes together to create one of the great Discworld novels, not least because it stars Sam Vimes and the rest of his motley group of Ankh-Morpork watchmen.
"Las palabras que hay en el corazón no se pueden sacar".Si llegas a este momento y no sientes como se humedece tu visión, no notas como un pequeño cosquilleo amenaza por encima de tu nariz y ni tampoco sientes una ligera presión en el pecho, es que no tienes alma.Pratchett no es un escritor "de humor".
Todas las pistas están ahí des del minuto uno, a diferencia de una Agatha Christie (por poner un ejemplo).
Personajes que, siendo una obra coral, te acordarás de todos y de cada uno de ellos.
Golemovia, druhizmus (odvodené od rasizmu), feminizmus (trpaslíčky), život, sloboda, náboženstvo (keramický ateista! odolný voči zásahu božieho blesku), princípy vládnutia, heraldika, upíri, ľudská chamtivosť, chudoba, aristokrati a ešte aj detektívny príbeh s až príliš poctivou policajnou prácou? To všetko - krv mojej krvi, íl môjho ílu - dostaneš v knihe Nohy z jílu.Skoro by som zabudla - forenzný alchymista Pleskot Řiťka, fakt, a záverečný rozhovor Elánia s Vetinarim (v závese Vetinariho dialóg s Važuzlem).Fajn citát:"Já myslela, že trpaslíci zlato milují?" podivila se Angua. "To oni jen tak říkají, aby ho dostali do postele."Goodreads výzva 2017:134. dočítaná kniha
Maybe writing these wee reviews made me appreciate it a bit more because I knew I would have to write something about it afterwards!There's a bit of this, towards the end, that made me think..'The thought occurs, sir, that if Commander Vimes did not exist you would have had to invent him.' 'You know, Drumknott, I rather think I did.'..
how he's come in, apparently a decade before this story, and made Ankh-Morpork work by ironing out the guilds and the best line of 'if you've got to have crime, you might as well make it organised crime' (or something along those lines).
This is one of Pratchett's books that gained him the reputation for straying from science fiction into literature.
Most of the depth escaped me when I first read it 12 or so years ago, both because I was younger and because it was the first Discworld book I read.
I delighted in Pratchett's story of a Golem gaining self-awareness and subsequently declaring himself an atheist.
Using Golems made the point that definitions of free will and life have been debated for a long time and will probably go on long after our PCs criticize our photo edits.
Could someone explain Pratchett's rhetorical message regarding race to me?This book takes place in a fictional city called Ankh-Morpork, a medieval version of a bustling, culturally-diverse city, similar to London or New York City.
What concerns me is that Vimes, either in this book, or the previous in this series, says something along the lines of: "It's not right to hate races of people.
But it's okay if I hate certain races of people, because I work with them." Furthermore, Vimes says something like, "Trolls, fine, Dwarfs fine, even though they're unpleasant, but Vampires?
Uno más de la saga de La Guardia. Divertido, con crítica social y un buen puñado de situaciones divertidas marca de la casa. Y algún personaje nuevo que promete, como Doft o el Pequeño Loco Arthur. No está entre mis favoritos del Mundodisco, pero me lo he pasado bien leyéndolo. Se nota que Pratchett se va encariñando más de Vilmes con cada nuevo libro, aunque sea a costa de que Zanahoria se esté volviendo algo soso para mi gusto.
Featuring Vimes, Carrot, Angua, Detritus, Colon, Nobbs, and a new member of the City Watch, Dwarf Cheri Littlebottom, working forensics.
(hide spoiler)] Series: Here are the Discworld books about the City Watch, in order:Guards!
The books feature con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig,  and a few characters from the City Watch.
Then there is Raising Steam, where Lord Vetinari makes Moist Von Lipvig introduce the steam train to the City, making it popular and profitable.
This book does not feature Moist Von Lipvig, but it has some City Watch characters.
(Although it also resulted in a real groaner of a pun/Six Million Dollar Man reference.) As usual, Pratchett managed to pack a lot to think about--social, philosophical, theological--into a storyline.I liked seeing Angua again, although I felt a little more sorry for her this time--her struggles to contain her werewolf nature, her role as a female Watch officer, her worries about her relationship with Carrot, her problems with her family back home, and her funny/tricky new friendship with Cheery the dwarf.
It would be difficult not to enjoy the realism of the main characters (and the caricature secondary cast), something I have come to appreciate in the previous City Watch novels.
I really liked the character from the first time he is presented and Pratchett was clever enough not to make him a solemn golem but give him a sense of humour (probably more accurate to call it wit) albeit a fledgling one, in clear resonance with his origins.The story flows without hinder, no dead spots or collapsing comedy.
The loveable characters are still there.
I started reading through the Night Watch series of Discworld books for the Beach Blanket Bonanza challenge I ran.
I enjoyed the books I read then enough to keep reading more of the series.
I recently finished Feet of Clay and am now starting Jingo.Feet of Clay is another straight up mystery.
Vimes, Carrot and the rest of the Watch must figure out who is behind the murders, the assassination attempts and why.The novel is fleshed out with details of Ankh-Morpork's history and culture.
In the midst of these scenes, Nobby Nobbs finds himself elevated.Over all it's a good combination of mystery, world building, social commentary and humor.
Of Pratchett's usual suspects, this book focuses on the Watch and San Vimes, with a brief cameo from Death and none from the infamous Rincewind.
I always feel that the Watch books operate differently than the others, because Sam Vimes comes across as a more well-rounded character who doesn't follow the same mold as someone like Rincewind.
He's easier to take seriously, and therefore the Watch books (and there are several I haven't read), tend to be more solemn than the other off the wall hijinks of other Discworld notables.
Simply fantastic. Only 4 stars because it took its time to really get rolling, but Pratchett can really make you think and care about dwarves and trolls and gollums.
