https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96358.Batman
(A) 85% | ExtraordinaryNotes: A discomforting, audacious book that compels re-readings and focused, lingering looks at specific pages and panels.
“All it takes is one bad day to reduce the sanest man alive to lunacy.
I mean one bad day is all it takes.
And the Joker, being the sly and brilliant villain that he is, wants to share the experience with the world.
He wants to show humanity that they are not that far from him.
The first man he wants to reduce is the stalwart Commissioner Gordon.
SO WHEN YOU FIND YOURSELF LOCKED ONTO AN UNPLEASANT TRAIN OF THOUGHT, HEADING FOR THE PLACES IN YOUR PAST WHERE THE SCREAMING IS UNBEARABLE, REMEMBER THERE'S ALWAYS MADNESS.
All it takes is one bad day.This is one of the most iconic comics in the Batman/Joker mythos and arguably has a place as one of the most iconic comics out there period.
Wow. Just...wow!The ripple effects of what happened here not only created Oracle, but inspired a ton of other great storylines.I would have thought that a Joker Origin story was maybe the stupidest idea ever before reading this, but I think Moore pulled it off beautifully.
Mainly because this had such a wonderful hint of madness to it, that it even with the Joker telling you about his past, it still leaves you wondering if that's really what happened.And that ending.Highly recommended.
As it was, the story only takes a toll on her father, and that's largely wrapped up by the end of the comic.The Joker's motive for all this mayhem, to break Jim Gordon and prove that a bad enough day can drive anyone insane, comes to nothing.
Even after shooting Barbara, he ends the book less of a threat than he started.Now, let's be honest: one star is a harsh rating, and were this book not commonly called "The Greatest Batman Story Ever Told" I'd almost certainly have been more lenient.
It's Alan Moore's most famous Batman story.And it really isn't that good.
الجوكر تقريبا من اكتر الأشرار اللي فاقت شعبيتهم شخصية البطل "السوبرهيرو" نفسهولو مش عارف ايه الكاريزما اللي وصلته لكدة..لازم تشوف الحكاية القصيرة العبقرية ديالعمل الفني ده، كوميكس مستقل -لا يتبع أعداد سلسلة- بيعرض وجهة نظر شخصيتين متناقضتيناتنين الحياة المليئة بالشرور واليأس والظلم جعلتهما يجنّوا تماما"صورة نادرة لباتمان يبتسم :)" "كل ما يتطلبه الأمر هو يوم واحد سئ، ليخسف أعقل إنسان علي وجهة الأرض إلى الجنون. هذه هي الحياة بالنسبة لي، يوم واحد سئ" أحدهما صار مقنعا غامضا، ذئبا وحيدا، أو كما قيل ب
وذلك اليوم السئ الذي تسبب لكل هذا الجنونفمن المعروف أن منذ ظهور الجوكر في ثلاثينات القرن الماضي فإن دائما سر ماضيه غير واضح ويتغير أحيانا من حكاية لأخرى لفيلم لأخر لكن هنا المؤلف الان مور أحد أيقونات عالم الكوميكس "الناضج" قوي الحبكة السوداوية الأقرب للواقعية، بيقدم وجهة نظره في حكاية مختلفة لأصل الجوكر بعد حوالي 50 عاما من ظهوره الأولويعترف الفنان برايان بولاند -رسام تلك الحكاية- إنه واجه صعوبة في تقبل ان يتم كشف بهذا الوضوح للغز ماضي الجوكر بعد كل هذا الوقت ولكن ما أنقذه هو أعتراف المؤلف علي لسان الجوكر ، الشرير الاكثر جماهيرية أن الماضي طالما هو بهذا الجنون فإنه يفضل ان يكون له خيارات متعددة“If I have to have a past, then I prefer it to be multiple choice.”
"If I have to have a past, then I prefer it to be multiple choice."   Brilliant, absolutely loved it! This is the best Batman graphic novel ever written. Here we have a collection that includes two of the greatest comic book characters. The Caped Crusader aka Batman and the Clown Prince of Crime aka the Joker. (suck on that Marvel)What can I say about Joker? He is my favorite villain of all time. He's the greatest, hands down.   He's been a constant thorn in Batman's side. Batsy's been trying
This is the best Batman graphic novel ever written.
The Caped Crusader aka Batman and the Clown Prince of Crime aka the Joker.
He is my favorite villain of all time.
He's been a constant thorn in Batman's side.
Deep thoughts, he's thinking “How can two people hate so much without knowing each other?” So he confronts the Joker and he's completely all, whatever, dude.The Joker simply doesn't care, it's all just a game to him.I don't like Batman, I love him.
He's the world's greatest detective.
Batman wins.
Every time.
*Christian Bale's gruff growl* Because he's Batman.
A truly masterpiece of the comic books! This is a prestige format stand-alone story.Creative Team:Writer: Alan MooreIllustrator: Brian BollandColorist: John Higgins HAVE COURAGE  Nothing’s going to be the same… …not ever again. A writer should have balls, and I don’t mean the organic meat sacs, since a female writer is the same entitled to have balls. But if you aren’t confortable with the “male metaphor”, I am confident that you already got that I am talking about writing with courage.A writer
What a crazy world where we live in!)It seems that villains can do all the harm and killing that they wish, BUT only if they target heterosexual caucasian men, since it seems that any other type of people in this world is under the label of some “minority” group and therefore, there will be rage riots about it.I think that “labels” instead of unite us, they just keep away the distance between each other in this little blue planet.
Right?THAT is the killing joke……they aren’t that different.One bad day.
Comic publishers will embellish the backstory of character more than necessary or drag it out and milk it, or they’ll retcon the character one too many times until the reader doesn’t know which way is up.
Hey mister, you wanna buy a truckload of alternate foil #1 issues of Spider-Man 2099?), comic book creators were expanding the kiddie-geared bounds of storytelling by getting edgy and no one was more on board with the movement to more mature themes than Alan Moore, hence his interest in the Joker’s story.This isn’t a Batman book.
The Joker shooting Barbara Gordon usually makes top five lists of most memorable comic moments.
5.5 stars!!! OH…MY…GOD…I thought I knew everything there was to know about the Joker, one of Batman’s greatest foes. But after reading “Batman: The Killing Joke” and how the Joker was portrayed in this book, the Joker has officially become one of the most VILE, TWISTED, DARK and most DISTURBING villain I have ever come face to face with…AND I LOVED IT! Being brilliantly written by Alan Moore and being masterfully illustrated by Brian Bolland, “Batman: The Killing Joke” has remained to be one of
But after reading “Batman: The Killing Joke” and how the Joker was portrayed in this book, the Joker has officially become one of the most VILE, TWISTED, DARK and most DISTURBING villain I have ever come face to face with…AND I LOVED IT!
Being brilliantly written by Alan Moore and being masterfully illustrated by Brian Bolland, “Batman: The Killing Joke” has remained to be one of the greatest and most disturbing “Batman” stories to ever be created!
I loved the way that Alan Moore made this story extremely disturbing and dark and I was actually cringing during the scene where Barbara Gordon is shot and then tortured, which proved how demented the Joker really is.
THIS BOOK WAS AWESOME!
THE GRAPHICS ARE FREAKING AMAZING!I'm sure everyone and their cousin has already read this book, but I haven't so here we go.
He had a good job but left it thinking he could be a stand up comedian and support his wife and unborn baby.
that didn't happen, he apparently wasn't funny --->who knew?Then he goes and tries to get some crime job with some idiots so he could have the money until he could figure something out.
I think it's brilliant.
I'm going to leave it at that and close with some awesome graphics!
One of the classic and most brutal Joker vs Batman graphic novels, The Killing Joke is a Batman classic and should be considered one of the essential canonical books in the genre. The Joker is as sinister and terrifying as ever and Batman is pushed to his limits and beyond. A fantastic fast-moving and beautifully drawn epic!
The Killing Joke does much more for the iconic symbolism & stylistic edge of the Batman mythology than the serious-as-a-heart attack (ooverrated) Christopher Nolan films.
The afterward by maestro illustrator**- his representation the most demonic and therefore probably my favorite interpretation of the Joker--is correct when he says that Alan Moore has written better stuff.
(Watchmen, From Hell, Fashion Beast...)* Well, I will say I do have the fondest memories of the fox animated series-the Mad Hatter being my favorite (underutilized) villain.** This cover is probably as iconographic as Edvard Munch's The Scream at this point.
The Killing Joke presents us with his backstory: a deeper insight into the man the Joker once was, and the events that led to the loss of his sanity.
(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]More than that, this graphic novel showcased some incredibly smart dialogue, iconic Batman moments and commendable artwork from Brian Bolland.
It does wonders in setting the right, creepy atmosphere, just take a look!(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]While it does a spectacular job at representing the turbulent relationship shared between Batman and his ultimate archenemy, I do feel it shouldn't have been the book to pop my DC comics cherry– had I read previous editions first, I would have relished it even more.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
2.5 stars rounded up.This book was much better than "The Watchmen" to me. I may just not be a fan of Alan Moore's writing.I mean it has this guy! and I still didn't fan-girl over it.It was an okay book for me though. You get the origins of the Joker..who I think is one of the best villains ever. It's a dark one though for those of you who don't like dark. Barbara Gordan (aka-Batgirl) gets shot by the joker and he doesn't stop there. He pulls out full assholeness for this one.The artwork is frigg
2.5 stars rounded up.This book was much better than "The Watchmen" to me.
I may just not be a fan of Alan Moore's writing.I mean it has this guy!
and I still didn't fan-girl over it.It was an okay book for me though.
You get the origins of the Joker..who I think is one of the best villains ever.
It's a dark one though for those of you who don't like dark.
Barbara Gordan (aka-Batgirl) gets shot by the joker and he doesn't stop there.
He pulls out full assholeness for this one.The artwork is frigging awesome though.
Fácil, tenemos su parte más vulnerable, una que pocas veces se había explotado, también tenemos al clásico Joker,al que, como diría Alfred, "Quiere ver arder al mundo"...pero hay otra capa, la que poco se atreven a mostrar y es ¿Porque Batman?
(y por favor no digan que porque es el otro enmascarado) en respuesta a esa pregunta las últimas dos páginas las ame...La manera en que Alan Moore lleva esta historia es fantastica porque sí, tiene su sello, el personaje tiene profundidad, pierde ese velo de idealización que ha cubierto al Joker desde hace años...y el dibujo es ideal._____________________________________________What can I say about this story that has not already been said?
I love the Joker, he's my favourite batman villain (and possibly my all-time favourite comic/superhero villain too).
He is just completely insane and I love it.
One big reason why I love the Joker is because he is quite mysterious.
So Moore wrote this great back story BUT part of me wasn't really completely satisfied.
I love Batman but I don't think Moore wrote him as a very likeable character.
This comic was actually quite philosophical.
I kept reading things that reminded me of different philosophers I've studied.
I especially liked the Joker's speech about insanity and reason.
"All it takes is one bad day to reduce the sanest man alive to lunacy."--JokerWow!
But at the same time I wanted to know the origin of Joker.
In spite of its release date, the graphics were quite good.
The origin of Joker is heart breaking and pretty typical for our time.
Now I know there is one similarity between Batman and Joker.
They both faced ONE bad day in the past.
Now I can read Batman comics without getting much hurdles.
(view spoiler)[How it makes sense that Batman grabs the Joker and BAMM!
He’s evil, insane and damn it all interesting as hell.Just as Milton’s most enduringly intriguing player is not God or the Archangels but Satan, DC has in The Joker created an enigma (Sorry Riddler) of a criminal source that defies logic and is simply an opposing force for our heroes, motives and reason be damned.
As Michael Caine’s Alfred in the 2008 film The Dark Knight said, “some men aren't looking for anything logical, like money.
Just as Shakespeare’s Richard III is all the more terrible because he is a man, so too is The joker all the more villainous because for all his insanity and bad intent, he is one of us and closer than some Melvillian beast or Lovecraftian old god.
I'm probably risking a lynching from the fanboy mob but I liked this a whole lot more than the other well-regarded bat-book, The Dark Knight Returns. It nicely illustrates the Batman/Joker dynamic as well as highlights their similarities. Joker seemed like a psychopath rather than the buffoon he was normally portrayed as at the time. Shooting *spoiler* in the spine and taking pictures in order to try to break *spoiler*. Awesome. My favorite part was the Joker and Batman sharing a laugh while waiting for the cops to show up at the end.
First on my list, Batman: The Killing Joke by Alan Moore.The story opens on a dark and stormy night.
It's The Joker.By far, one of the creepiest villains of the Batman pantheon."So when you find yourself locked onto an unpleasant train of thought, heading for the places in your past where the screaming is unbearable, remember there's always madness.
any other response would be crazy!"Recommended for the more mature graphic novel readers because of some disturbing content and images, Batman: The Killing Joke is no joke and one heck of a ride.Watchmen, also by Alan Moore, is one of my all time favorite graphic novels, so I was expecting to enjoy this one.
نويسندهآلن مور، توی دنیای داستان مصور، یکی از نویسنده های افسانه ایه و از روی چندتا از کمیک هاش، فیلم ساخته شده (از جمله: وی مثل وندتا، واچمن، کنستانتین، انجمن نجیب زادگان عجیب).
من هم یه روزِ بد داشتم، هر چند یادم نیست که چی بود...
همه ش یه شوخی دیوانه وار و هولناکه!»اقتباسفیلم بتمن ساخته ی تیم برتون (محصول ١٩٨٩) تا حد زیادی از روی این کمیک اقتباس شده.
هر چند ترکیب شدنش با عناصر فانتزی سیاه تیم برتون، کمی حال و هوای کمیک رو از بین برده، ولی ماجرای جوکر شدن جوکر، تا حد زیادی از این کمیک اخذ شده.
Batman: The Killing Joke (Batman), Alan Moore, Brian Bolland (Illustrator), Tim Sale (Introduction)Batman: The Killing Joke is a 1988 Comic graphic novel featuring the characters Batman and the Joker written by Alan Moore and illustrated by Brian Bolland. The Killing Joke provides an origin story for the supervillain the Joker, loosely adapted from the 1951 story arc "The Man Behind the Red Hood!". تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2005 میلادی
So when you find yourself locked onto an unpleasant train of thought, heading for the places in your past where the screaming is unbearable, remember there's always madness.
Madness is the emergency exit.Since the animated movie is coming out soon, I decided to finally read this graphic novel.
Joker has always been my favorite batman villain and it was nice to finally get some backstory on his character.
And despite the great plot, my favorite thing about this graphic novel is the art style.
And I'm sure I'll go back to re-read it many times, just for the amazing art style.
She's the only woman in this whole book, and she becomes not only a victim of violence, but motivation for the male characters (Jim and Bruce) to put away Joker.Barbara joins the long list of superheroes with ugly, violent demises (see 'Women in Refrigerators,' by writer Gail Simone), and she suffers the most violent and debilitating fate for a comic book character.
If you've seen The Dark Knight, you know that one of the most terrifying aspects of the Joker is not when he tells Rachel his origin story, but when he tells someone else something completely different, and it's just as believable.
Not only does Moore do away with Barbara's integrity, he tosses Jim's out the window too.
I know nothing about Batman (apart from seeing the Christian Bale films)I know nothing about Marvell or comic books or superheros in general but i loved this comic! My first ever graphic read.
Or will Joker have the last laugh...First off, this is an acknowledged classic and I utterly loved it when I read it several years ago.
But I loved Moore's choice of ending the story on a joke, that was a master stroke.Bolland writes the afterword and he makes an interesting point about Moore, that "The Killing Joke" is never mentioned among his great works (Watchmen, V for Vendetta, Swamp Thing, From Hell) and I think that, while Moore is a tremendous writer (especially in the 80s), the writing here is not his best.
The best Batman/Joker story ever! Alan Moore asks the question no one else ever wanted to ask: how much of who the Joker is can be attributed to Batman? How much of who Batman is can be attributed to the Joker? 'Primordial Unity' and the 'tragic birth' of both the Joker and Batman has never been explored more deeply - I think Nietzsche would have liked this story.
"All it takes is one bad day to reduce the sanest man alive to lunacy.Thats's how far the world is from where I am. Just  one bad day." Absolutely brilliant
While Joker is one of my favorite villains of all time, this graphic novel didn't amaze me. It isn't the perfect backstory that I was expecting. I read this because the animated movie is about to be released soon and I wanted to read the graphic novel first. I'm hoping that the animated movie would be a lot better than this. It might just be coincidental though and my mood could've affected my enjoyment. I might be doing a reread of this in the near future and hopefully it would have a different outcome.
We must ask ourselves why we love the joker <3 !!!!why is he our favorite Villain <3 !!!The killing joke and indeed it was , this comic focused a lot about the joker and his philosophy and his twisted mind , but this was my first time to really get to know the real story about the joker and how he become the joker and i really liked it :D .
i see now why a lot of comics fan rate this as one of the favorites ever , it was brilliant and Alan Moore writing makes it the best , and finally we will saw this type of crazy mind psycho in the theaters soon by jared leto and i believe leto will blow our mind <3 .....
