https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36373425-lying-in-wait
*4.5 Stars*So, couple things—this author’s last name is Nugent, and not “Nugget” like the chicken, as I’d been so daftly repeating in my head, and to some actual humans as well, embarrassingly enough.
In the end, your head may hurt, your gut will twist, but the critical thriller-reader in you will question nothing, as every single detail is covered and accounted for.
If you know me, you’ll know that unreliable sociopaths are my personal 
(fictionally speaking), and here you’ll get the cream of the crop!
FIVE PERFECT STARSGo ahead, click on Want to Read.
How do I tell you how perfect this book is without gushing?
Liz Nugent just wrote the handbook and I fear that very few writers could achieve such perfection in this genre.The thing is, if you found her debut UNRAVELING OLIVER too much of a slow burn -I know a ton of readers did, you will not find that with LYING IN WAIT.
The need to know what is happening becomes almost unbearable as you read.Once again, Nugent has created an engrossing family drama that spans many years and is set in Dublin.
The first line of the book is a killer, it just draws you into this extraordinary dark and disturbing psychological thriller.
The characters are loathsome, yet you cannot help but want to know more about them.
There is the respectable family of the Judge, his wife and son, Laurence.
Buried in their garden, is the body of Annie, a junkie and prostitute.
Then there is Annie's sister who is looking for her.
It crawls beneath the surface of obsessive love and lays bare its darkness.
The insights into this mother and son relationship are mesmerising.
Liz Nugent does remarkable character development and her writing is exquisite.
For whatever reason, I get lost in all the mess and it loses it’s allure for me over time – that is absolutely not the case for Lying in Wait.My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyal, but the lying tramp deserved it.If that line alone isn’t enough to draw you in as a reader, there’s not much I can do to help you.
Her emotional blackmail had me trapped.There is no question here as to “who dunnit” but it absolutely was not needed and not what drove this story forward.

LYING IN WAIT by LIZ NUGENT is an engrossing, dark, disturbing, and dramatic read here that in my opinion had all the elements to make this the perfect psychological thriller.
The storyline, the characters, the suspenseful writing, and that totally shocking ending that definitely ruffled some of my feathers made this an all around fulfilling read.
LIZ NUGENT delivers an exciting, twisty, suspenseful, and well-written read here with one of the absolute best characters in a psychological thriller that I have yet read.
I loved how this book was told like the characters repeating a story from some point in time after the events had happened, rather than experiencing it live.
Her husband is a successful judge, they live in her beautiful family home, Avalon, and her son Laurence adores her.
Lydia and Andrew may be able to hide their secret from outsiders, but what will they do when someone inside the home—someone much closer to it—discovers the truth?ReflectionThere is something so matter-of-fact in the way these characters tell their story.
The Fitzsimmons family is one that is easily able to separate emotion from action, with the exception of Andrew.
This is my kind of psychological thriller, one that keeps you guessing, proving one wrong when I was sure I knew where this was going.
Unreliable narrators, where would novels be without them.
The question is who or are all of the narrators telling this story, unreliable?
Tautly plotted, unraveling at the authors pace, misleading scenes, hard to believe the gullibility of some of these people.
Thought for sure the author was going to take the predictable way out, where I thought this was going.
Not a good idea to go against some people, especially hidden, psychopaths.ARC from Edelweiss.
However, their teenage son, Laurence, is highly suspicious of what's happening, and Annie's family isn't going to let things go."That was the first time I felt a stab of resentment toward Annie.
Of course, I still loved her, but I wanted her in the room so that I could yell at her."The novel's narration alternates between three POVs. First, there's Karen, the younger sister of the murdered woman.
She doesn't want to let Annie's murder go unsolved, and she resents the fact that the police, as well as the public, think of her sister as nothing more than a drug addict.Next, there's Laurence.
Lying in Wait by Liz Nugent certainly starts off with a bang (and on my birthday no less) that gets one’s attention, a husband and wife are out late one night and the husband strangles a young women with the wife coming in to finish her off.
At that point the book definitely grabbed my interest.You see, Lydia Fitzsimons and her husband got a little carried away covering up their secrets.
I will admit the middle of this one got a little slow to me thus only the four stars but boy oh boy was the ending worth the wait.
It was crazy creepy, sometimes almost made me gasp (I’m not kidding here), this is one heck of a good read.This book features a true psychopath, the meaning of which is “Psychopathy is a personality disorder which has symptoms expressed over a wide range of settings.Socially, it expresses extensive callous and manipulative self-serving behaviors with no regard for others, .
Laurence is a character you will not soon forget, he will go from a chubby, unpopular, socially inept child to a manipulative, domineering adult, crazy people in this book!
You also know that a crime has been committed from the opening lines, but how it unfolds is a buzz to read.I really enjoyed the author’s writing style.
I was gravitated to this little baby right away and was anxious to dive right in.
I have read many disappointing psychological thrillers over the last couple of months and was thinking that this one would be the same but Liz Nugent did a slam dunk with this psychological thriller.I would have to say it's more of a slow-burning thriller.
I was lost a little and got a tad bored.
I would recommend if you are wanting a different and unique psychological read!
I need a little help on this one.
Those of you that have read this can you explain the last page with Lydia?
Andrew's hands must have squeezed a little too tight.
Odd behavior for a judge who would never want to see the inside of a jail cell in his life time.Annie Doyle now occupies the confines of that trunk.
Answers that Lydia and Andrew keep sealed in walking distance from their back door.Their seventeen year old son, Laurence, is Lydia's pride and joy and she thinks that he has hung the moon.
But soon Laurence realizes that something is amiss with his parents.......something serious and sinister.Liz Nugent shines a light along a very crooked path here.
What a chilling and well-crafted novel!"My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyle, but the lying tramp deserved it."That is the first line of the book and what follows is a captivating and engrossing novel.
Lydia Fiztsimons is the wife of a respectable Judge and loving mother to Lawrence.
They live in a beautiful and large house which holds a macabre secret.
Once I started reading I couldn't put this book down.
This is a novel about dysfunctional families, long-held secrets, and lies.
I loved it and recommend it to readers of thrillers, mysteries, and contemporary fiction.
If there were a genre called The Best Books Ever this book would be the Best Book Ever in the genre Best Books Ever.This book is so much dark and creepy fun.
This is most certainly a character driven book with the murder serving as a link between the characters.
It's been a long time since a book has made me lol and I know it seems absurd that a "dark and creepy" book could elicit that sort reaction but it's true.
My first read by Nugent but certainly not my last, I have already bought Unraveling Oliver.
4 StarsMy first read by this author was "Unraveling Oliver" and I didn’t like it but I really enjoyed this one and I’m glad that I read it!
Her style is not my usual read because from the first chapter you know about the victim and the murderer but that’s what makes it more interesting!
It’s a standalone novel, well-written with a perfect story-line.
I didn’t like the ending so much but when I think about it, it was a perfect ending to this story.
Overall, it was a really good read and hope you like it as well!!
The best part of this novel is the first sentence and it’s a doozy. It’s downhill from there. I enjoyed Nugent’s first novel, Unraveling Oliver, her second lacks tension. Told from the points of view of a mother, a son and a dead girl’s sister it reads like a sophomoric high school essay.

Liz Nugent's opening line in this twisted and devious page turning mystery certainly creates an impact.  My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyle, but the lying tramp deserved it.Having loved Liz Nugent's previous novel Unravelling Oliver  I was thrilled to get an opportunity to read her latest novel Lying in Wait and I certainly was not disappointed as her plot lines, character development and writing is sharp and vivid and this author certainly knows how to tell a story. I have read a lot o
Liz Nugent's opening line in this twisted and devious page turning mystery certainly creates an impact.
My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyle, but the lying tramp deserved it.Having loved Liz Nugent's previous novel Unravelling Oliver
I was thrilled to get an opportunity to read her latest novel Lying in Wait and I certainly was not disappointed as her plot lines, character development and writing is sharp and vivid and this author certainly knows how to tell a story.
Yet Andrew and Lydia Fitzsimons find themselves in this unfortunate situation" This is wonderfully assured and beautifully written second novel from Liz Nugent where the characters are well drawn and the plot simmers with tension.
I read Lying in Wait with five of my Traveling Sisters and it made for another fantastic discussion.
It had us jumping up out of our chairs, throwing our arms up and cheering or yelling and chanting WOW or WHAT did I just read!!Lying in Wait is a well-layered, complex and entertaining story that delves into the mind of a controlling, calculating and cold character.
The characters are fun to dislike and are unlikable in the best possible way.After reading Lying In Wait, we have put Unraveling Oliver on our list for an upcoming group in November.
When the decision to dispose of Annie's body, is made she is buried in the garden of Lydia and Andrew's home.
Time and circumstance link Karen with the Lawrence, they become friends and then more than that while things take that proverbial turn to the dangerous, threatening and alarming nature we so often find when people commit crimes that go undetected.
Who is this loving mother so obsessed with her son and as Lawrence embarks on a trail of discovery he also wonders what his mother is.
He is her everything or is he?This story was quite a tale of lies and deceit.
"My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyle, but the lying tramp deserved it."Seriously, with an opener like that, how could I not keep reading?
But what makes a psycho unique is the creepy things they come up with to carry out their agendas, and Lydia is pretty good at doing creepy.I’m making it sound like this book is all about Lydia the Evil.
I planned on taking the high road and pretending it didn’t bother me much, but the whisperer in my head keeps saying liar, liar pants on fire!
I definitely recommend this book, especially to those who like fleshed-out characters with their thriller.
I’m going to keep this short, because it’s all good and I don’t want to ramble on!
Once I started, I didn’t want to put it down, it was just such an engaging book!
I don’t want to go into too much detail because I’m afraid I’ll give away something and that’s something I do not want to do!
The best thing about this book is the characters and the various personal journeys they go on.
The things that happen afterwards are shocking, unpredictable, diabolical and...fascinating.The opening line of this story sets the tone: “My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyle, but the lying tramp deserved it.” Obviously, it got my undivided attention from that moment and I never got distracted.
Three narrators were used for this story and I’m so glad I opted for the audio version because all of them delivered stellar performances.
This is my second book by the author and she’s now an auto read, including the audio format as real care and attention is being given to who is selected to represent the characters.
A high 4 stars!Lying in Wait is a dark creepy psychological thriller!
The story starts in 1980 Dublin with the murder of Annie Doyle.
The book opens with the line “My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyle, but the lying tramp deserved it”.
The story is told from the perspective of Lydia who is the murderer’s wife, Lydia’s son Lawrence, and Annie’s sister Karen.
It’s best to say little of the plot because this one is worth going into cold.
And Karen just wants to know what happened to her sister.
I definitely want to read more books by this author.
Liz Nugent you are one crafty lady.
*claps hands*A husband and wife.
A son.
A murder.
I'm not going to rehash the plot but just know this: I thought this book was brilliant.
It was so much fun and I raced through the pages.
I'm a little up in the air on the ending.
I can't quite decide if I was satisfied with it or not.
I suppose I was satisfied but I just found it really sad.
I will say that the ending was definitely not what I was expecting when starting this book so I've got to give Ms. Nugent credit for that.
I LOVED this book.A troubled girl named Annie Doyle goes missing.
Labeled as a prostitute and drug user, her family seems to be the only ones concerned of what has become of her.Meet Lydia and Andrew.
Avalon was inherited by Lydia whom comes from a well respected family.
Family is everything to Lydia.
As I said, family is everything for Lydia.Meet Laurence, son of Lydia and Andrew.
So much so that he ends up struggling to create relationships outside of his family home.
Even if you can guess who, you still won't guess how this book ends.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyle, but the lying tramp deserved it.” ^^^That line right there had me like .
.  I mean let’s be honest.
I don’t care if the tramp deserved it – or if she was a tramp – or if the husband did or didn’t mean to kill her.
I just appreciate any time someone is dead and I am given an early copy to read.
As mentioned a time or a thousand before, I have a bit of old lady brain so I knew I had read
“My husband did not mean to kill Annie Doyle, but the lying tramp deserved it.”
I don’t care if the tramp deserved it – or if she was a tramp – or if the husband did or didn’t mean to kill her.
As mentioned a time or a thousand before, I have a bit of old lady brain so I knew I had read Liz Nugent before, but I couldn’t remember what and I didn’t bother looking it up because I thought I had enjoyed her previously.
ARC provided by NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
I was super eager to read this after loving Unravelling Oliver   so much. How did it compare in my opinion? This new book from Liz Nugent is good, I really enjoyed it but I did not feel it quite had the wow factor that Unravelling Oliver did, nevertheless it's a really good read!A well-respected citizen and his wife get themselves way over their heads in a tangled mess of murder. The killing of a troubled young woman who has sunk down in life with a battle with heroin addiction and selling her b
This new book from Liz Nugent is good, I really enjoyed it but I did not feel it quite had the wow factor that Unravelling Oliver did, nevertheless it's a really good read!A well-respected citizen and his wife get themselves way over their heads in a tangled mess of murder.
The book really focuses on the characters within it, who they are and what makes them tick and very much on the often dysfunctional interaction between certain characters.If you like your people broken and messed up you will really love Lying in Wait.
If you have not read Unravelling Oliver I do highly recommend it.
Liz Nugent is AMAZING!
I LOVED it!The characters are fantastic!
The author, Liz Nugent, does an outstanding job creating an unforgettable cast of deeply affecting characters.
This is my second book by Liz Nugent.
I loved Unraveling Oliver too!
I simply can’t wait to read Skin Deep.This was a Traveling Sister read that we all loved.
To find the Traveling Sister reviews, please visit our blog at:https://twosisterslostinacoulee.com/2...Thank you to NetGalley, Simon & Schuster Canada and Liz Nugent for providing me with an ARC in exchange for an honest review!Lying In Wait is AVAILABLE NOW!
