https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1073555.The_Alaskan
I don't like the dry dust, the cattle stampedes or the gun fights.
Apart from the beginning being at sea and the Alaskan scenery in the first half, the ending felt like I was in Texas.
Yes, her husband was a murderer, had tricked her into marring him and was through and through a brute bent on destroying the culture of Alaska.
But I didn't like that they were hugging and kissing while her husband was still alive, with no regrets or embarrassment.
The other Curwood I read wasn't like this when it included a married person.
(Spoilers in here) An odd book. Part natural history writing, part Alaska history, part Western. Mary Standish, our heroine, is "dead" about halfway through, but comes back to life. Alan Holt, our hero, is "dead" near the end but comes back to life. John Graham, the villain, gets shot in the wilds of Alaska by Holt and his men. (The ending could be in Texas.) Actually, I suspect this would make a terrific movie. Can't recommend it, though I'm not unhappy to have read it.
I had such high hopes for this book.
Alaskan adventure written by someone other than Jack London?
Many of the reviews I read of this book indicated how the author, being a naturalist, paints a picture of a beautiful Alaskan landscape.
I was also excited to read more about the political fight for the soul of Alaska at the time.
I'll look to see if Curwood wrote a book about this one character's early adventures.
Michener, but if you're looking for history and adventure, look somewhere other than this book.
Didn't find it interesting, for the most part. Dialogue seemed pretentious and overwrought. Gave up part way in.
Listened to this audiobook from Librivox.org. It was very good, a romance, even! And he's a naturalist, so he makes Alaska seem like such a beautiful country!
I enjoy Curwood's stories of manly men in the wilderness and the virtuous women they fight to protect.
Wonder if the cattle and hog barons of the time had not had their way, would we all be eating reindeer burgers today as this book's hero had envisioned while he developed his vast reindeer herds in the northern tundra.
We did get Curwood's typical fight against adversity, both from nature and man as our manly, honor-before-all hero and the womanly, virtuous, but feisty heroine win out against the odds.
This was a great book that starts out with a somewhat frightened lady on a steamer. She meets a man who she learns to trust and that is where the story begins to unfold. It is hard to determine what the story is actually about, or how it will end. James Oliver Curwood takes one on a ride and the story isn't complete until the last page. There are elements of adventure, chivalry, and even a little romance. I really liked the story, and I will likely read more from this author.
This is a story about a girl that goes on a journey of adventure weaved with many fateful coincidences. She solves a mystery, gets to know many new people and helps her father outfox his enemy.If you've never visited Alaska, this book gives you a sense of its freedom and freshness as well as it's beauty and wild possibilities.
An excellent damsel in distress story with a twist. It's old school but it appeals to the honourable chivalric side.
This was a great book. Written in 1923, this novel gives a great glimpse into the early years of Alaska. Fast moving with plenty of action, this story is very gripping. Stumbled across this author while researching early authors of the 1900's and thought his titles looked interesting. I looked him up on Amazon and found several of his titles for free. This is the first one I have read and I look forward to the next one.
Focused on Alaska. Good story with romance and adventure. A litte melodramatic in te writing, typical if early 1900s. Worth reading.
Starts out slow, but climbs in interest as the novel progresses. Adventure, romance, danger, interesting Alaskan historical anecdotes, and an engaging story.
Udmærket skrevet, men dybest set bare en banal kærlighedsroman.Meget skuffende.
