https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162314.Why_Men_Don_t_Listen_and_Women_Can_t_Read_Maps
I probably should not be reviewing this book now because I am going to sound like a raging bitch.
This book is full of “facts” of the modern day sexual clichés popularized by the media - Men are from Mars, women are from Venus.
It sounds almost like women are biologically incapable of reading maps, so deal with it.
Our behavior, values and moralities depends much more on our social environment than it does on our biological inheritance.
Believe me, there are plenty of men who have learnt to listen like there are plenty of women who have learnt to read maps.
The basic hypothesis in this book is that the brains in men and women are organized differently.
One of the best aspects of this book, is that not only do the authors point out the differences between men and women, but a lot of very practical advice is given.
Men have big advantages (spatial thinking, problem solving) and women have big advantages (communications, observation and intuition), simply due to the wiring of brains.I highly recommend this book; it is so fun, and contains so many pearls of wisdom that ring true.
They do the reader the grand favor of presenting "facts" backed up by hard science and sifting through the information on gender differences so the reader doesn't have to.
But the Peases fail to footnote any of the so-called facts with documentation of actual scientific publications or studies.And they also do the reader the great favor of telling him or her that if they disagree with their conclusions, it is only because the reader has been "victimized" by idealization.I don't think their conclusion that men and women are different is nearly as shocking as they think it is.
wew, cepet juga ternyata bacanya. kurang dari sehari udah kelar. tanda2 kepulihan dan membaiknya napsu membaca kah? :D Men forget everything; women remember everything. Inti dari buku ini adalah... laki-laki dan perempuan itu beda!ya iya lah, nenek-nenek juga tau soal itu mah Secara keseluruhan bukuna lumayan menarik. buku ini mencoba mengurai perbedaan2 mendasar antara laki2 dan perempuan dari sudut ilmiah . kenapa laki2 suka begini? kenapa perempuan begini? seperti itulah. bacanya sambil cenga
buku ini mencoba mengurai perbedaan2 mendasar antara laki2 dan perempuan dari sudut ilmiah .
And then the fight started...Intinya, joke diatas itu mengungkapkan kekurangpekaan laki2 dalam berkomunikasi dengan perempuan :Dsatu lagi deh, merujuk kejudul awalnya "Why Men Don't Listen" ada joke lain tentang laki2 yang berusaha "mendengar"To Be 6 AgainA man asked his wife what she'd like for her birthday."I'd love to be six again," she replied.On the morning of her birthday, he got her up bright and early and off they went to a local theme park.What a day!
From an evolutionary psychology perspective, our brains have been wired for different priorities based upon thousands of years of unique responsibilities while ensuring the survival of the next generation.
Also, reading this, it's critical to remember much of what is discussed is generalization and not indicative of every man and every woman.
Even if it's not their natural proclivity, men can learn to listen and be more sensitive with the women.
Likewise, a woman can better learn to enjoy the male tendency to interpret "romance" as doing something practical for her.
كتاب هائل وهذا افضل ما يوصف به. هذا الكتاب بحاجة الى أن يدرس في الجامعات والمدارس، كل شاب وشابة عليهما الاطلاع عليه، لفهم الآخر رجلاً او امرأة ما الذي يجعلهما كذلك، مالذي يجعل من الرجل رجل والمرأة امرأة. كتاب علمي دسم ومرح في ذات الوقت.
Well, because I am a woman, so I learned lot of things about men from this book. And I got so much explanations why sometimes women (like me) just couldn't understand men. Hahaha.. I think, men should read this book too. If they were reading this, good for them. With this book, men would much more understand us. Like my boyfriend, he finds so much familiar things (that happened between us) in this book, and he said : "I understand you better than before, cause this book gave me how-to-think-women-way." :)))
Most of the science presented in this book (and others in the series) are seriously flawed, as argued and documented in Cordelia Fine's "Delusions of Gender" (I highly recommend this book as an essential reading for all those who are seeking to be informed and educated about the intersection between gender and neuroscience.) Allan Pease's claims do nothing but further gender stereotypes and amplify the enticing voice of this brand new flashy version of modern sexism, now made credible with brain!science!
I encourage others who have read this book and rated it, to seek more information on the subject and re-consider.

According to this book, I am "more likely" to be a lesbian because I have a masculine brain.
This book also supports evolution but says that "Nature wants us to procreate and uses powerful drugs to do so." Yuh-huh, okay and what is "nature"?
And why does it have wants?
The advice in this book is stupid.
The female author claims that she still has trouble finding her way home - yeah maybe because she is stupid not because she is female.
This book relys heavily on the caveman theory.
I cant believe the kind of books that become #1 nowadays.
Kenapa?Soalnya ada kasus yang sama persis kejadiannya dengan saya dan Si Ayah.Me : "Yah, makan di luar yuk."A: "Nanti sore ya."Me: "Yes..", (kegirangan)-sore datang-Me : "Katanya mau makan di luar, Yah?"A : "Ya udah digelar aja sana karpetnya deket kolam, nanti Ayah bantu usungin piringnya."Me: "Lah..
Udah dari sononya.Jadi begini menurut si Penulis.Wanita itu : memiliki mata yang tajam, ia juga dapat melihat secara luas (keseluruhan) saat sedang mengedarkan pandangannya, ia juga mampu mendengarkan dengan baik.
Demikian juga buat para cowo yang terheran-heran dengan kemampuan wanita untuk multitasking atau bergosip seharian, nah baca aja buku ini.Semoga mendapat pencerahan kaya saya XD
Es ist eine Tatsache, dass geschlechtsspezifische Talente, Neigungen, Vorlieben und Verhaltensmuster existieren und solange diese im Rahmen gleichberechtigter, friedlicher Koexistenz ausgelebt werden, besteht kein Anlass zur Echauffierung.Immer wieder erstaunlich, wie leicht sich durch die nicht wirklich vorsätzliche Reizung von Gleichberechtigungs- und Feministeninitiativen jene dazu hinreißen lassen, zur Steigerung des Bekanntheitsgrades diverser Publikationen, diese als altmodisch bis sexistisch zu brandmarken.
Und wer sich in keinem der dargestellten Klischees selbst wiederfindet ist einsam auf die nächste Stufe der Evolution des Menschen weitergeklettert.
Overall this is a light read based on evolutionary psychology (almost only!!!) about how men and women differ.
So overall some "truths"- If a girl likes a guy, she talks to him- Women talk for the sake of talkig- Women want to be listened to because that is how they think and solve issues- Women are better at communicating, organizing and bringing social value; they like cooperation; building a family environment is fundamental for most- Men like hierarchy, want power and strength, they bring the "food" and value work.
На какво се дължи това и какво да правим и как Войната за вдигнатия капак на тоалетната чиния отговаря на тия въпроси?От време оно в етологията (науката за поведението) и по-специално поведението на хората, има две течения, с които мисля до болка са ви проглушили ушите – условно наречени nature и nurture.Според едната страна, всички разлики са генетични и вродени: мъжкият мозък е еволюирал така че да е приспособен към заниманията на мъжете при развитието на човешкия вид – лов, битки, занимания на открито, затова мъжете имат по-добро пространствено мислене, по-агресивни са и са по-често индивидуалисти, докато жените са седяли в пещерите, гледали са децата и са си приказвали, затова постепенно са унаследили качества като социалност, креативност.Учените от другото течение пък смятат, че момчетата и момичетата се раждат умствено еднакви, а „мъжкото“ и „женското“ поведение са само резултат от средата в която мъжете и жените растат и живеят, от традициите и възпитанието им, от обществото.
But they are confused about the difference between equal and identical  which are two completely different issues." (italics in original)"'women's intuition' is mostly a woman's acute ability to notice small details and changes in the appearance or behaviour of others." "Professor Ruben Gur of the University of Pennsylvania used brain scan tests to show that when a man's brain is in a resting state, at least 70% of its electrical activity is shut down.
Scans of women's brains showed 90% activity during the same state, confirming that women are constantly receiving and analysing information from their environment." "The X chromosome provides these colour cells.
كتاب مضحك الان اقتنعت ان النساء من المريخ و الرجال من الزهرة كل طرف يعامل الطرف الاخر بالطريقة التي ينتظر منه ان يعامله بها في حين انه في حقيقة الامر يزعجه بتصرفاته.
الرجل والمراة مختلفان لا احد منهما افضل من الاخر فقط مختلفان لكل منهما قدرات خاصة.
لذا يجب توفير حقوق مناسبة لطبيعة كل منهما المراة ليست مضطرة لتتحول الى رجل لكي تكون ناجحة والرجل ليس مضطرا لكي يصبح امراة.
المراة لديها قدرات خاصة ( تعلم اللغات القيام بالعديد من المهام في نفس الوقت التعامل مع الاخرين وتربية الاطفال...) المراة تحتاج الى الحب العاطفة والى تبادل الحديث وفي المقابل الرجل لديه قدرات خاصة في تحديد الاتجاهات ويحتاج الى تحقيق الذات والجنس.....
This book is very useful.
It is a must for every person to read this book in order to learn about differences between men and women.
The author shares real life and practical examples that you can see in yourself and your partner in everyday life.
There are explanations about men/women differences that if you take them into account you can learn a lot about your partner and improve your relationship.
At the begging of each chapter the authors present some cartoons and funny quotes that make the beginning of each chapter interesting and inspires you to start the chapter.
Só não digo que bati o recorde (li o livro em 1 dia) porque o recorde foi um livro da Agatha Christie que li em pouco mais de 2h, sem parar)!Muito divertido, adorei!------------------------------Comecei a ler esse livro sem muitas expectativas e me surpreendi! Tem vários dados científicos e biológicos, de forma bastante bem humorada, que explicam as diferenças entre homens e mulheres e os conflitos que essas relações envolvem.Algumas passagens falam sobre habilidades típicas de cada sexo, diferenças no cérebro, enfim... eu gostei muito, devorei o livro e recomendo à todos!!!
Много се смях, докато я четох, защото съвпаденията са абсолютно точни. Апропо, има чудесен тест за мъжките, женските и "средните" мозъци. Аз се оказах от тези, средните. Препоръчвам Ви я!
Menurut saya, buku ini banyak memberikan jawaban akan hal-hal yang sering terjadi antara pria dan wanita, baik dari perbedaan sifat antara mereka, maupun alasan-alasan sederhana seperti kenapa wanita lebih rajin dan tekun dibandingkan pria di sekolah?
Buku ini menjelaskan kenapa wanita dapat melakukan dua atau lebih pekerjaan dalam satu waktu, sedangkan pria tidak bisa?
Nah, di buku ini dikupas alasannya secara ilmiah perbedaan sifat ini.Buku ini juga menjelaskan, kenapa wanita memiliki kecenderungan lebih rajin dan tekun di sekolah dibandingkan pria?
Sehingga, dengan mengetahui alasannya kenapa pria seperti ini atau kenapa wanita seperti ini, setidaknya penulis jelas sekali mengharapkan semakin minimnya tingkat kandasnya suatu hubungan rumah tangga ataupun lainnya.

This was a gift from a family member, ostensibly to help me navigate marriage successfully (though I rather suspect "traditionally" is a better word). I'd hoped at least for some new/interesting science, but this was not to be. The book merely recycles cliches ("men aren't designed to multitask" sort of thing).Sure it's no shock for you that my advice is to save your time and money...unless your relationship is really falling apart. In which case, maybe you've forgotten some of the obvious points & it's worth a scan...but get it from the library.
وقد يقول قائل: ما هذه السخافة ؟ فلو كان هذا الكلام صحيحاً لوجدنا قائمة بالمراجع موجودة في آخر الكتاب كما هو الحال مع أي كتاب علمي رصين آخر.
مع شعوري بأنه كان يتوجب إضافة هوامش إضافية تتحدث أكثر عن الكتب المذكورة وتعرفنا بالعلماء المذكورين فيه وغيرها من الإضافات التي كانت ستفيد الفاريء بكل تأكيد.
لقد قدم لنا الزوجان بيز ببساطة، النظريات الأكثر ترجيحاً من تلك التي تتحدث عن الفروقات البيولوجية بين الرجل والمرأة فقط لا غير.
بقي أن أعلق على بعض النقاط: إن هذا الكتاب معني بتفصيل ما هو مرجح في الأوساط العلمية من نظريات علمية بخصوص الفروقات البيولوجية بين الرجل والمرأة وهو غير معني بالتقييم الأخلاقي أو تبرير سلوك قد نراه سيئاً.

I loro libri sono stati tradotti in oltre 50 lingue e hanno venduto complessivamente oltre 27 milioni di copie in 100 Paesi diversi.Un romanzo interessante, scritto in maniera molto divulgativa e spiritosa sulle differenze tra uomini e donne: partendo da tanti luoghi comuni, che sicuramente almeno una volta abbiamo sentito citare da amici dell’uno o dell’altro sesso, ci vengono spiegate quali siano, secondo le teorie della psicologia, gli elementi alla base delle nostre diversità.Il diverso funzionamento mentale dei generi viene collegato allo sviluppo evolutivo della specie.
كتاب معارك قيس وليلى كتاب اكثر من رائع فهو يبين الاختلافات بين الذكورو الاناث وهو اختلاف جوهري وجيني
Some parts of the book ring true, some others don't really and a small portion of it sounds like unjustified bold statements.However, what justifies my choice of a 1-star rating is the lack of serious data behind it.
Some items are presented as logical by the arguments but with a bit of thoughts, you can quickly realise they do not add up at all.Funnily enough, reading this book helped me understand something totally different from its main topic: how some people can be made to believe anything if they do not challenge the author of the statements.
Memang, buku-buku psikologi populer ditujukan untuk mereka orang awam yang tidak mengerti kejiwaan manusia, namun bagusnya buku ini adalah sang penulis mampu menengahi buku ilmiah yang membosankan dengan buku self-help yang terlampau melayang-layang.
Buku ini mampu menyajikan perbedaan gender secara ilmiah namun dengan cara yang sangat menarik dan penuh humor.
Saya membaca buku ini hanya untuk memperkaya pengetahuan saya, bukan karena saya orang yang sedang bermasalah dengan pasangan saya.
Buku ini layak kok bagi mereka yang sedang bermasalah dengan pasangan mereka ataupun bagi mereka yang hanya ingin tahu perbedaan antara pria dan wanita dan mengapa pria dan wanita selalu bertengkar.
I only wish this book had been available when I was young, so I could have been more patient with people generally, whichever sex they were.
I'd no idea how at the mercy of hormones we all are, even before we're born.According to this book, male and female brains are wired up so differently that it's amazing that the two sexes get on as well as they do.
There's a must-do quiz that measures on a scale how male or female you are.
Mas quais são as razões dessas diferenças é até que ponto elas podem ser superadas?
Barbara e Allan Pease percorreram vários países e consultaram dezenas de cientistas para preparar este livro sobre as diferenças e os modos de pensar e agir de homens e mulheres.
O resultado está neste livro que oferece um instrumento importante para, ao verificar e compreender as diferenças, estabelecer uma relação harmoniosa entre homens e mulheres, seja no casamento, na vida profissional, na forma de educar os filhos ou em qualquer campo do relacionamento humano.
