https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7105.Three_Soldiers
The novel would have been much better, I think, – and probably more widely read today – if the prose wasn’t weighed down by quite so many adverbs, adjectives and similes.
Further, I was never in any doubt as to what the author wanted me to think and how he wanted me to feel, when I would have preferred to simply feel and think for myself.That said, I don’t regret the time I spent listening to the novel, which was beautifully narrated by George Guidall, and I plan to read more of Dos Passos’ work.
I was drawn to Three Soldiers after hearing an old time radio show that brings literature to the airways & wanting to know the whole book as John Dos Passos intended.
This book starts out with the drafting of some soldiers, overseas voyage to France which was described with all its horrors, the war, Armistice & keeping the peace until the troops leave.
He finally finds a way to escape after the war ended by getting a military okay for attending a college in Paris for his music ability.
He then meets Genevieve & does not like her but starts to after he decides she will help him with his music.
The three main characters are constantly hearing, telling, re-telling, and fashioning nightmares from stories of other soldiers who could no longer take the humiliations, the drudgery, the merciless chickenshit of Army life and who struck an officer, or stole a car, or went on a bender, and then had to run from hunting parties of trigger-happy MPs. Dos Passos’s portrayal of the organized chain of petty tyrannies that keep a war machine running to the standards of modern, “scientific” management necessarily attracts him to the misfits who use mobilization as a cover for personal errands, who somehow buck the system and do their own thing in its midst.
Where churchmen say they will do everything within their ‘earthly power’ to help you – and they say this ‘earthly power’ in parenthesis, because they know you do not believe in their god – so, their stressing ‘earthly power’ lets you know they will do nothing, lets you know why they will do nothing – where words that sound positive and hopeful give subtle clues to explain the most callous punishments and pointless revenges.Then there are the endless blows of authority repeatedly hitting you on the side of the face and leaving you dazed, humiliated, seasick, swimming, cowering and cold in your hiding - trapped where there is no where left to turn, no one left to turn to, nothing left to fight for or to believe in – only the blows, or the threat of more blows, until that is all that remains.This is an aching and painful story, beautifully told, of the crushing of the human spirit when all point to that crushing has gone.
Maybe it's because after 450+ pages, I still hadn't figured out what made them tick.
What makes that odd is that they spent the entire book lost in introspection and talking about themselves.
This is the only war book I've ever read that had no combat scenes.
Among the deep blue shadows lights were coming on, primrose-colored street lamps, violet arc lights, ruddy sheets of light poured out of shop windows.Another scene I liked was where one soldier stepped out of a his marching platoon to watch some frogs in a puddle - a simple, perfect moment of life set against slaughter.The book had a very modern feel to it, and a good, but dispiriting ending.Manhattan Transfer now sits glaring at me from the shelf.
Maybe.
Second, there is Dan Fuselli, a first generation Italian-American from San Francisco who looks upon the Army as a gateway to a better life after the war.
Dos Passos gives the reader a bird's eye view of Fuselli's departure from base camp to embarkation point on the East Coast, and the subsequent voyage to France.
The novel is a polemic on what Dos Passos sees as the futility and absurdity of the First World War. What's more, in France, he focuses more on telling Andrews' story, so much so that most of the book is taken up with him.
Instead, I read a novel about some men who hated the army.
dos Passos would have served his audience better had he provided some detail that leads to these men hating the army.
And, somehow, dos Passos seemed to be of the opinion that everyone should be in charge of whatever work they wanted to do - even in the Army!
My first experience with Dos Passos and I am looking forward to reading 1919 now. It really reminded me of The Jungle by Upton Sinclair, not in subject but in outlook and desperation of character. Each of the three soldiers ends up in his own desperate straits and finds their own way to a conclusion. What happens to them during the war and how their inner fortitude or lack of it help or hinder their progress makes for a heartbreaking story.
Очень сильное произведение. Мысленно я поставил этой книге 5 не дочитав даже до середины - на столько это было хорошо, испортить было просто уже невозможно.
I read this novel, based on the author's experiences as a volunteer ambulance driver in WWI, at grandmother's cottage in SW Michigan because I had been mightily impressed by his USA trilogy. Sadly, I was disappointed, but then it was only his second novel.
One of the great joys in my life are the friends who send me books. Thankful to my friend, Steve, for sending me this classic.A peer of Hemingway and Faulkner, Dos Passos shares a story based on his own experience as an ambulance driver in World War I. The tone of his book is less like others in the Lost Generation, and more like Kurt Vonnegut and Tim O'Brien, veterans of wars that came after "the war to end all wars".
So fresh, so vivid. A masterpiece.
Hauntingly beautiful....this is not a thriller per se.....but I truly enjoyed it and the ending....blew me away.
In Three Soldiers, John Dos Passos presents a raw depiction of the American experience in the First World War, devoid of any idealism whatever.
In some ways, his skeptism toward the military are similar to those expressed by Louis-Ferdinand Celine in Voyage au Bout de la Nuit (Journey to the End of Night), another novel with events from the First World War. It is also interesting to compare Three Soldiers to Hemingway's more famous Farewell to Arms; where Hemingway is spare and ambiguous both in prose and dialogue, Dos Passos is more direct and paints with a broader stroke.
Three Soldiers more like Three Pretentious Assholes.
I realize that Dos Passos was giving his perspective of the war and his distaste for the military.
I'm pretty sure that the only trees that Dos Passos is aware of are poplars.
As is expected, he gets passed over for his promotion and lives a dissatisfied career.The second soldier is a son of a bitch.
He was so jaded and so much of the book dedicated to him that he was the main reason I didn't like the book.All together, it was an uninteresting waste of time.
John Dos Passos is considered by many to be one of the greatest writers of the twentieth century.
Passos is part of the "Lost Generation", the generation of young men (and writers) that grew up with World War I.
Like Hemingway (at one time a close friend of Passos), he served in the ambulance corps during WWI.
"Three Soldiers" is important for anyone studying either writers from the early 20th century- or most importantly- books that move the reader into the experience of WWI rather than just reading the "events" of this first Great War.
Most of the great American modernist books are forgotten, passed over for Faulkner (eh) and Hemingway (double eh). But Three Soldiers is doubly neglected, because to the (very limited) extent that people still rad Dos Passos, it's pretty much Manhattan Crossing and the U.S.A trilogy. The trilogy is wonderful, but I prefer Three Soldiers -- the sociological observation is still leavened by a romantic sensibility. And WWI is the best possible illustration of the transformation of American society from human-scale small towns to mass industrialism that was Dos Passos' great subject.
I stopped reading it because all the dialogue is written dialectically and that is SO distracting to me - just didn't want to struggle with it! I know it's a classic but I'm getting too old to wrestle with a book!
Passos wrote primarily for a select audience. As a result, it can take a bit of time to find a way into his work. It's the same case here, but I've seldom read something that was so anti-war, written at a time when the anti-war movement was in its infancy, just after the end of the Great War.
This is my favorite book on war I have ever read, which says a lot since I hate war and I generally don't like books on it. Hemingway, eat your heart out!
Beautiful, brilliant, thought-provoking and inciting, this personal argument against society, civilization and war will never stop digging at cherished illusions and demanding answers.
Hemmingway totally rips this off for A Farewell to Arms which isn't half as good as this one. A classic modern novel of WWI.
Very depressing but wonderful view into World War I, what military service can do to people, and the changes engendered that can change the course of their lives.
In brief: it has a Hemingway style with a Remarque view of The Great War. Despite some of these shortcomings, Dos Passos message is unmistakable in its pessimism.While Dos Passos is regarded as one of the best writers in American history, this focus in World War I felt unfinished.
Dos Passos uses Andrews' experiences as his message-bearer: that the American army, having very little to do after the Armistice, becomes unraveled from leadership on down.
Andrews is like a prisoner in the American army.
There were times where pages had to be re-read to understand what John Dos Passos was trying to say, but his message is lucid on the final pages.
Three soldiers turns out to be mostly about one of them, John Andrews, the Dos Passos avatar, a composer from Virginia, AWOL in Paris and Chartres after being injured, getting into a special education program for music, and then swept up by MPs into a labor detail.The other two, Fuselli and Chrisfield, have less focus but there are a couple sections devoted to them: Fuselli's early strivings for corporal and a position of recognition, and Chrisfield at the front, taking the life of a despised lieutenant with a pair of grenades, after killing several of the enemy, also with grenades.The war action is minimal, almost completely seen in anticipation, or from a great distance, or on approach to the front lines, or related via dialogue by characters who seem to have had more direct experience with the war than any of the novel's main three characters.
We see him transform from idealistic young man to directionless deserter, disillusioned and lost as the war ends and he is still trapped in the "Army of Occupation," slaving for the financial interests of the country that has forgotten him and the men like him who never wanted to be long-term soldiers.The novel has a stark ending, and it must have been powerful for readers in 1921 (especially veterans), as Dos Passos has soldiers expressing ideas that would have been considered treasonous and would have shocked those on the homefront who bought into idea of all-American doughboys fighting jauntily for Democracy and Freedom.
This was an interesting a good book about some of the horrors of war and how it can break down the spirit of a person.
The characters a sort of cross section of classes and role and education, developed well though it was really, for the most part, focused around one soldier and his struggles.
It addressed how the system could tell on a man and certainly what is today called PTSD is very very present.I will try to read more by Dos Passos.
I guess going in I was expecting something more like All Quiet on the Western Front.
You go thru the 2nd half thinking "This can't end well" and sure enough ...The difference between those who prefer the security of regimentation - what I sometimes think of as the military mentality - and those who chafe at the idea of anyone telling them what to do is presented starkly and effectively.
Yes, it's an antiwar novel of sorts, but primarily it's a character study - not so much presenting the dehumanization of the military as presenting the characters' perceptions of it.
I probably started at the wrong end of Dos Passos with Manhattan Transfer and USA.Comes a long way down the list of War novels, like waaaaaayyyyyyyyyyyyy below All Quiet and The Good Soldier, The Things They Carried, and Goodbye to All That but then it deals with conscription and the Army in somewhat different terms focussing on the pettiness and ultimate boredom of those in arms, and how the conscripted army becomes the refuge of bores and bullies.I wasn't prepared for the sheer romanticism of much of the book to the extent that the characters seem hackneyed and pushed to become mere ciphers, none more so than the Andrews educated muso who enlists through knowing not what to do in an environment of too much freedom.
This is the story of three soldiers during WWI.
It follows them from training through to shortly after the Armistice.
(Spoiler-The war ends in the middle of the book.) Dos Passos has a style that is not for everyone.
Things are very episodic and a narrative thread is hard to find.
I found this book to be OK, but a bit long.
I prefer his shorter WWI story "One Man's Initiation" to be more accessible.
That said, there were parts I enjoyed, and parts I slogged through, and times where I put it down for several days.
Not a page turner, but more a psychological study of soldiers.
