https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/961123.The_Fall_of_Paris
But the drums of war would admit of no turning back, and the Emperor led his forces into a disastrous war with the Germans that would cast its shadow over his nation for decades to come and lead ultimately to the fall of the Second French Empire and the exile of Napoleon III to England.The Prussians, led (figuratively) by Kaiser Wilhelm but in fact by Bismarck, quickly crushed the French and surrounded Paris.
A concise account of the closing act and the aftermath of Franco-Prussian War.This book besides providing a full and rich account of the siege and the Commune, helps the reader understand how interconnected these two events were and gives a quite unbiased account of the Commune.
But this book focuses on Paris, and its role during the war, and its birth of the Commune.As a history of the Commune, this book is a necessary read; it shows the political factors that led to its rise, and Horne goes to great lengths to explain what it was and what it was not.

This book was recommended by a friend in the course of a Facebook discussion in which an author I like mentioned his near-ignorance of the Franco-Prussian War. I had to admit to the same, and found it odd, as I hold a B.A. History, and while the term is familiar, I couldn't begin to discuss it in any detail.
The following 100+ years don't lead me to feel that's likely.
But I feel my understanding of the many more familiar events that followed has been enhanced, and peopled with fascinating characters.
Superb.Good history should read like a good novel. This book certainly does that.It is a long time since I read this exciting book, but little did I know that one day I should make unexpected use of it.One of the characters described in the narrative is Frederick Reitlinger, who escaped from besieged Paris in a hot air balloon. I have discovered that this gentleman, who was sent by Thierry to plead with the English and the Austrians to intercede with the Germans to relieve their grip on Paris, was one of my relatives. For more about this see: http://yameyamey.blogspot.co.uk/2012/...
A book focused on the debacle of the Franco-Prussian War of 1870-1, its effects on Paris, and the subsequent brutal but short-lived Paris Commune.
It is full of detail, rather too much for me, and of many extracts from diaries and the like which at times felt like padding.
The book clearly reflects a huge amount of research, but I would have preferred it to have been shorter and the research to have been rather more distilled into a somewhat higher-level narrative.
There are also many references to people and events which are not fully explained, so that a reader not already familiar with this major period of French history may be a little nonplussed.
Introduces a chunk of history I've never heard mentioned or alluded to, never mind taught in schools.
I understand a lot more about the backdrop leading to WW1 now than I did before...
and I've still got the 40 years between Prussia's victory over France & the outbreak of the First World War to read up on.While I can vaguely see why the Paris commune's failure would radicalize some socialists, I'm not sure why anyone would bother trading one set of bastards for another (then again, I'm speaking from what would be a bourgeois luxury of choice).I'm going to have to add this book to my library: there's much more to be learned from it -- I'll be going back to it in a few years.
I gave this book five stars not so much for the quality of the writing but for the content.
This is a very sad and disturbing account of a social catastrophe that rivals the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the 900 day siege of Leningrad starting in 1941.
The role of women is particularly interesting in the scope of their brutality that reminds one of women's role during the French Reign of Terror in 1793.This book does qualify as a "page turner" but for me, Horne's style is a touch awkward at times.
From a historical perspective though it qualifies as required reading.
I added this book to my shelf long ago, on the mistaken impression that it described the real events that were the basis for Les Miserables. Once I realized, three quarters of the way through, that this was not so, my desire to keep slogging through the endless litany of inept French zealots and the British author's evident contempt for the lot of them was vastly diminished, until the book itself dropped from my hands and I could go no further.
Excellent story of Paris during the Franco-Prussian War and the time of Commune. Should be of interest to anyone interested in France and French history.
Currently reading. A nice readable history of Paris. I'm really enjoying this.
My love of Paris lead me to this beat up paperback at the English bookstore in Toulouse...
Given the breathless support for the Commune espoused by Horne's critics, it was an indication that Horne might actually be looking at the events objectively - or at least not whitewashing the actions of the Communards out of ideological sympathy with them.This was in fact the case; while some readers disparage Horne for his lack of ardor for the Communards, Horne is actually quite evenhanded.
Strangely, Horne bothers to include translations in the end notes for the French poetry that is included, an indication that he did not expect his readers to be fluent in the language.Overall this was an excellent book about the Paris Commune.
Lots of military stuff, but then plenty of eye witness accounts, descriptions and context.
An enjoyable read and Horne definitely plays up the sordid, the sexual and the macabre.The last chapter is definitely enlightening and sobering.
Horne explains how this episode foreshadowed/set-up many of the significant events in Europe during the 20th century (WWi, WWII, spread of communism) and also how the degradation and violence of the siege, and especially the commune, were not some bizarre outlier or from some innate part of the times but rather the Paris in this time was an extemely cultured and intelligent place and that this sort of decline into senseless violence could just as easily befall ANY democracy, any city, any civilization.
Sobering stuff and extremely relevant.
I wanted to read the final two books in the trilogy, but felt obligated to read this first book because of some sense of puritan work ethic.In short: while there are common themes and the early communist elements of the Parisian civil war do inform later events, it is not really necessary to read this book to enjoy the later two volumes. If your primary interest is in either of the two world wars, you may find the scope of this book less interesting.
The result of the short war was a complete route of the French army who surrendered at Sedan, the expulsion of Louis Napoleon, and the siege of Paris by the Prussian army.
The Prussian king was crowned at Versailles as the Emperor of Germany and the French were left to form a government, with the competitors to run the country between the bourgeoisie and the proletariat.
The bourgeoisie were eventually routed back to Versailles and the Paris commune were left in charge of the city.
Well written history of a period mostly ignored in the US despite its importance to subsequent European events (as the author points out, Lenin was buried with a Communard ribbon). While I would have been interested in more detail about the Franco-Prussian war itself, that would have been outside the scope of this study. The author’s narrative will do nothing to overcome certain stereotypes of the French but overall it seems to be a fairly balanced account.
Thorough, enjoyable, useful
Good account of a fascinating historical episode. A decent mixture of character-driven storytelling and facts, names and context.
I chanced upon an old copy of this (no isbn) amongst other books in a purely decorative bookshelf at my workplace, the name caught my attention and I was glad I inquired further.
One of a trilogy of books written by the author, examining key aspects of the 3 major wars between France and Germany that occurred between 1870 and 1940 - a period of time that is the same as that between the end of WWII and today.
Anyone who has visited the city will find it hard to imagine these locations as the setting for the events described here.The book has left me with a much better grasp of the reasons for, and the extent of, the historical divisions between Left and Right in France.
They simply wanted the right to municipal self-government for Paris, such as existed in most large European cities at the time, including other cities in France.The main claim to fame of the Paris Commune of 1871 was the brutality with which it was extinguished.
(Only a few dozen of these were executed or exiled, and only after proper trial.) And since the revolutionary National Guard was alleged to number 200 000 at one point, we can see that the vast majority of them had simply slipped away from Paris or melted back into the slums from whence they came.So why was the repression so brutal?
The first half of the book covers the Prussian siege and consists of interesting stories (such as the hot air balloons used to send out mail and the unique cuisine based on zoo animals), political events (the overthrow of the Empire and the creation of the republic) and military activities (the various sorties).
The second half of the book describes the reasons behind the rebellion in Paris that created the Commune, puts the Commune in historical perspective (it was a workers revolt and a bid for local autonomy as opposed to being a part of the International), and describes the political and military events.
Several chapters at the end chronical the second siege of Paris and the bloody reduction of the Commune.
This is old school history, wherein the author tries to give as impartial an account as possible.
The subject is the Franco-Prussian war of 1870, and the subsequent rise and fall of the Paris Commune in the first few months of 1871.I'll admit to being fascinated by modern French history, so this was irresistible for me.For everyone else, the story of 1870-1871 is of interest on account of two things: it holds the key to the origin of the Franco-German hatred that tore apart Europe through 1945, and in the Commune, the anatomy of all modern revolutions is on display in miniature.

This history of the Siege of Paris during the Franco-Prussian War and the months of the Paris Commune is a fascinating read.
I had never heard about the Commune, until I visited Paris last Summer.
I was shocked to find out that there had been a Socialist/Anarchist Revolution in Paris in 1871 and had to know more about it.
I looked around and this seemed to be the only English-language book I could find on the topic.This history does a good job of making the story as readable as any novel and the events are as riveting as a suspense novel.
While it tells two stories, they two are completely interlinked.
A history of one of the first western socialist/democratic experiments (which quickly went awry) in the late 19th Century. Fascinating study... many of our modern ideas about democracy and implementation of social policies came out of the Paris Commune of 1870 (separation of church and state, free education, women's rights, gender equality, and so forth). Anyone interested in the history of human rights should read this book (first published in 1965).
A very enjoyable historical text retracing the events leading up to the Prussian siege of Paris, the siege itself and the civil war that followed. Told through its key players, major events and attention-grabbing anecdotes. My personal favourite, that of a chicken, the sole survivor of its kind of the siege during which all available animals (rats, dogs, zoo elephants...) were gobbled up. Her name was Una, she was much-loved by her owner and is now stuffed in a display-case somewhere in England.
The first part, The Siege, was a notch below of what I am used to from Mr. Horne; it is a good historical narrative of the Prussian conquest of France in 1870. The second part, The Commune, is a dramatic telling of the Parisian citizen's short lived attempt to govern the city sans central French authority; of course, civil war breaks out and Paris burns.
