https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/779522.Rumpole_of_the_Bailey
Rumpole of the Bailey is former barrister (lawyer) John Mortimer's first crack at fictionalizing his former life.
His hero, Horace Rumpole, toils down at London's Old Bailey defending morally tarnished persons, who usually didn't "do it"...at least not this time around.
This is a batch of humor to lighten the soul with a sprinkle of pathos for real world problems.
Mortimer knows his boundaries and stays within them.
I could've given this five stars, I enjoyed it that much.
That's terribly unfair of me, I know, but it's how I feel right now.
It's a funny world, isn't it?
Me ha gustado y ojalá Impedimenta edite otros libros de la serie. Las historias no tienen mucha intriga, son más legales que detectivescas pero son entretenidas, agradables de leer y muy british.

Me ha gustado, sobre todo la ambientación en los años sesenta que no me la esperaba, me sorprendió muchísimohttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
I had no idea how fun these stories that are kinda a novel would be. Every time I saw the name I imagined they were some kind of really old timey court room stories. But they're witty and amusing and rather charming.
A wily, ignoble lawyer for the defense takes on a number of cases in this book of short stories based on a TV show. Okay, imagine John Cleese of Monty Python fame as a defense lawyer. Seedy, mouthy, and deadly efficient. Now imagine the woman who played his wife on Fawlty Towers as his wife here. That's pretty much it. The writing isn't as brilliant as Fawlty Towers, the stories are more grounded in logic, and the characters are less acerbic. But I'm not wrong. Entertainingly cynical. Enjoyed but not adored.
I love Rumpole. I read all the books starting approximately 29 years ago. Just as good now.
I would have given this 3 1/2 stars if I were able. It was a humorous telling of various stories of Rumpole who is a lawyer/barrister in England. He goes about helping people in a rather humorous way. I enjoyed it but was not enthralled by it. I did chuckle a few times.
Just funny. I listened to the stories in the book while out running. The miles just flow by without me being aware of them. Ahhhh...
There was a television series based on these stories, and it was quite good, but really the stories themselves are better, because it's Rumpole's first person narration that brings his world to life, the world of a modern day "Old Bailey Hack" as he refers to himself, a cunning barrister who never pleads guilty (well, almost never), who does almost nothing but criminal defense at the bar and maneuvers and manipulates his fellow barristers in chambers.Rumpole is a lovable character, a man of high ideals and great common sense, who smokes bad cigars, drinks even worse claret (Chateau Thames Embankment, he calls it), quotes Shakespeare and Wordsworth, and usually gets to the bottom of his cases and, if he doesn't actually get his clients acquitted, will usually get them justice.
RUMPOLE OF THE BAILEY (Legal-Horace Rumpole-England-Cont) – GoodMortimer, John – Short StoriesPenguin Books, 1978, UK Paperback – ISBN: 0140046704First Sentence: I, Horace Rumpole, barrister at law, 68 next birthday, Old Bailey Hack, husband to Mrs. Hilda Rumpole (known to me only as She Who Must Be Obeyed) and father to Nicholas Rumpole (lecturer in social studies at the University of Baltimore, I have always been extremely proud of Nick); I, who have a mind full of old murders, legal anecdotes and memorable fragments of old murders, legal anecdotes and memorable fragments of the Oxford book of English Verse…*** This first book in the Rumpole series introduces the barrister, his wife, Hilda, and three of his cases.*** Rumpole is the consummate English character; he’s lord of his courtroom but serf to his wife in his home.
I enjoyed the book, but I actually like the television series better.
This is a collection of short stories about an English lawyer named Horace Rumpole.
He refers to his wife as "She Who Must Be Obeyed" and seems to rather dislike his home life.
I had a hard time with the humor in this collection.
The “She Who Must Be Obeyed” line was cute the first couple times it was used, but I was past tired of it by the final story.
Each of the short stories was rather predictable.
He makes little change throughout the stories.
And his son Nick seemed to be following in his footsteps; even Nick's wife seemed to be a carbon-copy of his mother.
I had forgotten how much Rumpole and Erskine-Brown opposed each other.
I was first exposed to Rumpole through the BBC/PBS TV series and they must have toned down Erskine-Brown.Speaking of the TV show brings me to the narration.
Frederick Davidson does an OK job but the voice of Rumpole in my head is still that of the actor from the TV series -- even while listening to someone else!
So Davidson's narration ended up being a disappointment.
However, if you don't have the TV show stuck in your brain, this would be a very good narration.
Oh, my old friend, Rumpole!
I adore Rumpole's recitation of poetry for all situations, his kindheartedness to his petty and often scheming colleagues and his brilliant defense of all the Timson family.
Hilda, or "She Who Must Be Obeyed" is his long-suffering and ambitious wife who is often disgusted by Rumpole's antics and lack of career ambition.
I always wonder if Rumpole and Hilda love each other or are they just in the habit of being together?
Most of all, I love that Rumpole can laugh at himself.
The PBS series starring Leo McKern was faithful to the books almost to each word uttered, and McKern was the perfect portrayer of Rumpole.
Rumpole is a great great character and his stories are always full of wit and gentle humour. Rumpole cares deeply about justice and has a true understanding of the importance of a fair trial. Yet he hides his passion under a gruff exterior. John Mortimer created in Rumpole a lawyer who constantly reminds us why our legal system must never be undermined. "Whenever I feel down I turn to Rumpole. "
Applies to all of the Rumpole Series' Books:How do you describe Horace Rumpole? A funny, drunk portly old British barrister, wed to She-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, and all that ensues in following along in his endless travails.I stumbled on this series at the recommendation of my friend Liz years ago and devoured every book in it that same week.Many are out of print now; go to your local library and get your Rumpole fix that way - well worth it!
Funny. Charming. And the legal stuff is insightful and done with an extremely light touch. This is the first of 15 story collections or full-length novels. I will be reading more of these ...
Fantastically funny with great characters.
As one reviewer once said, "Rumpole is hilarious brain candy". After reading this collection of stories and chuckling aloud you will probably nod your head in agreement.
Good British humor! Rumpole is sarcastic and fun to read.
McKern so embodied the character that it's difficult to imagine anyone else doing the part.
The audio version I've just been listening to is narrated, however, by Robert Hardy, who though he does it wonderfully, is never quite as I remember McKern.
Mortimer's invocation of Rumpole's voice in the narrations is wonderfully; the character is so fully drawn that you begin to anticipate his reactions and to cheer him along even when he loses.
Very entertaining and humorous-perfect for listening to as an audio book. As I had previously watched this as a series on BBC I was familiar with the characters, but I enjoyed getting reacquainted.
So funny.
Any Rumpole book is funny, sad, very well written, and just plain GOOD.
Even the videos are great.
I read these books over and over because even if you know how they end, they're still good.
Oh, I forgot to mention that they're all short stories linked together with Horace Rumpole, a lawyer in England, his wife, Hilda (he calls her "She Who Must Be Obeyed"), the people Rumpole works with, and the people Rumpole defends in court.
John Mortimer, the author, is an ex-attorney, so there's nothing fake about the stories.
He is a great writer--he did the screen play for the Brideshead Revisited miniseries.
Having seen, many years ago, the excellent TV series of this book I found that the character of Harold Rumpole, as played by Leo McKern, was so well characterised that I could see Leo McKern in every paragraph.
Rumpole is a crusty old barrister (UK equivalent of attorney) whose passion is defending those charged with murder or other crimes and as such is looked down on by his colleagues who favour tax and divorce cases.
Rumpole is crafty, has a rich experience of all things legal and has a wonderful sense of humour and enjoys his bottles of wine and gin.
This is a collection of short stories dealing with Rumpole and his clients.
Of course, Hilda or She Who Must Be Obeyed, is a constant presence.
The biggest problem is the English vernacular opposed to American slang.
The humor is not the slapstick humor of I Love Lucy, but more like the Kramdens of the Honeymooners.
The British court system is different than the American court system and the flow of the story suffers from this difference.
I like the underlying lesson of each story, such as a parent's responsibility for a child or the loyalty of one employee to another employee
Horace Rumpole (Old Bailey hack) is THE MOST BRITISH of all the Brit characters I've had the pleasure of reading. That wit drier than the Thar desert, those delightful idosyncracies and that trademark Bulldog Churchillian tenacity......Rumpole is the consummate Brit and you'll be hard-pressed to suppress a chuckle of two. Can't ask for a better companion especially if you feel a tad under the weather.And of course, Rowling borrowed "He who must not be named" from here. That's reason enough to tuck into these sumptuously witty and subtle short stories.
A wonderful character is Horace Rumpole. He slips into Pomeroy's Wine Bar for a few glasses of 'Chateau Thames Embankment' claret on his way home to She Who Must Be Obeyed having saved the world from the injustices of the Old Bailey justices whilst puffing on a cheroot. A book that pats you on the head and says everything will be alright and Horace Rumpole, a most unlikely hero, will find the path to fair play and defeat all bigotry and lies. Yes, Horace Rumpole is a fictional character, but it's nice to think that people like him may exist.
I picked this up and read it in one day, it's a delightful collection of 'autobiographical' tales narrated by Horace Rumpole, a tired and cynical barrister looking back over his years in the profession.The humour is very British, I don't think anyone not British would like this very much. I remember the TV series with Leo McKern and reading these short stories brought it back to life. The police sergeant disguised as a dirty pot-smoking hippy still makes me giggle.
I never had a chance to watch the amazing PBS series (and I know, I can probably buy the thing now!), so when I found this three-book series of the Rumpole stories, I snatched them up quickly — and was not disappointed. Anyone can write about a smart, sharply dressed lawyer but it takes talent to come up with a character like Rumpole and make you love reading about him.
