https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187745.Labor_and_Monopoly_Capital
It's why in the late 70s a single step up into management from the shop floor laborers brought in $25/hour in Lewiston, Maine (where I teach) and now those mill jobs are long gone, with no promise of replacements that can support a family.De-skilling has hit the university, too, and it's why your kiddies have adjunct instructors instead of full-time, tenured professors teaching at your local public universities.
Today, the numbers have essentially flipped, with two-thirds of faculty now non-tenure and half of those working only part-time, often with several different teaching jobs." Marx said everything eventually would turn into a commodity under capitalism, and surely the public good of education in the US is undergoing rapid privatization that includes this process of de-skilling.
Many jobs these days are just terrible, either from the monotony and repetition of their work, their poor wages, or just the lack of respect and dignity you get from them.
However, the present structuring of work leaves a process which is separate from psychological validation, only dull repetitive tasks.
The process of 'management' is breaking down the parts of any job into repetitive tasks and increasing efficiency, with the ability to exchange one worker for any other if they are no longer suitable.
Foster was a craftsman for a few years so there are a few anecdotes from his experience, but this idea of work does take up much of his time.
But I want to play with the ideas contained here about the division of labour and what that might mean if you were to hope for a utopian future of some kind.Marx makes it very clear that labour is what made us what we are – not just in the sense that building cities or houses or farms are good things to have about you if you want to be properly human, but more that human labour has changed us as beings much more fundamentally still.
Essentially, in the capitalist division of labour, work is designed to reduce all tasks to the lowest possible skill level – in fact, ultimately to have all tasks done by a machine that replaces human labour altogether if possible.
This book pumped me up with serious but impassioned history and arguments about (as the subtitle explicitly indicates) something right at the top of my list of important things...not just abstractly or theoretically important, but also relevant in the sad little drama that is my daily, weekly, annual life; because I (and I think most people who know me even a little) consider myself a very capable, intelligent, and creative person, and yet I have never had a job which challenged me to nearly the full extent of my ability, intelligence, and creativity.
Amazon=Goodreads=Bezos recommends that I read this. Amazon. Bezos. Wants me to read this.
It's   SCATHING!   This guy demolishes plutocracy, exploitation, and capitalism. Dirty little management tricks and secrets exposed on every page. In all it's gruesome, ugly, glory.Put down your mind-erasing smartphones and turn off your stupefying 'smart tv' and drop the Youtube vids and get off the retarded social-media treadmill. Raise yourself out of the fog of all these billionaire bad-boy vampire fantasies. Read more books like this. Let's think more about the world we live in. Let's not j
SCATHING!
This guy demolishes plutocracy, exploitation, and capitalism.
Dirty little management tricks and secrets exposed on every page.
In all it's gruesome, ugly, glory.Put down your mind-erasing smartphones and turn off your stupefying 'smart tv' and drop the Youtube vids and get off the retarded social-media treadmill.
Raise yourself out of the fog of all these billionaire bad-boy vampire fantasies.
Read more books like this.
Let's think more about the world we live in.
Let's not just gaze around at it, inert and motionless, like department-store mannequins.
That's not the way.
Why is the world the way it is?
Books like this.
Books like this.
And there is some truth to that, since capitalism is certainly a lot more dynamic than simple scientific management now.However Harry Braverman insisted here that human relations did not replace Taylorism but rather that both approaches were complementary —Taylorism determining the actual organisation of the work process, and human relations helping to adapt the workers to the new procedures.
The truth of the matter is that the changes are superficial, and they actually consist of a 'pretense of worker participation through gracias liberalities, fractional job movements, illusory decision making among fixed and limited alternatives chosen by management, and ultimately insignificant choices.' The structure remains the same.Braverman argues: scientific management was merely the first iteration of a long-developing way of thinking, and many iterations have come since.
Basically an updating/expansion of Marx's Capital, this book was written in 1974 to make a case for the continued relevance of Marxist theory to late 20th century America.
I guess you could call it a kind of pyrrhic victory that we're now over a decade into the 21st century, and Braverman's argument is more relevant than ever.
Braverman not only elucidates Marx's theories--in particular the key concept of alienated labor--but he also extends them, showing the ways in which changes in capitalist organization during the late 19th and early 20th centuries have spread what Marx dealt with as an issue strictly of skilled manual labor to nominally "white-collar" professions.
This is the kind of book (like Jane Jacob's Death and Life of Great American Cities) that I think every human being in the world ought to know on a basic level, although very few people will want to read it cover-to-cover.
The main idea is pretty simple: Employers do absolutely anything they can to apply technology and constantly break jobs down into simpler and simpler tasks.
But I think you can get the point rather quickly, and then it all seems kind of repetitive if you're not reading it for academic/professional reasons.
Ignore the awful title-- this book is the clearest explanation of work under capitalism and what's wrong with it that you'll ever read. The writing is clear and good-humored, the depth of analysis is astounding.
I was assigned to read this book for a class in Marxism. I expected it to be as dry as toast but was pleasantly surprised to find the book not just readable but riveting.
One of the best books I've ever read, written in an entertaining and easy-to-read style, covering a wide range of topics from the history and implications of scientific management, the increasing alienation of workers from their labour, mechanisation in both factories and offices, and far more. Braverman's book is a treasure trove of knowledge on the work process under capitalism. An absolute must-read for anyone who wants to understand and change the world.
Great information packaged in a tirelessly tedious academic presentation. Drink lots of coffee while reading.
Instead, the argument goes, the real reason for dividing the labor as Smith describes is to force all the workers to congregate in one central place where the employer can control their work.
Hence the constant trend in capitalism to de-skill the work force by breaking down jobs into a series of repetitive, easily-learned tasks for which the cheapest possible labor can be hired.
The likes of Taylor and the Gilbreths were quite open about the benefits to management, in terms of cheaper, better-controlled workers, that would result from their systems, practically making Braverman's argument for him.
Braverman examines how labor was atomized and demarcated and prescribed even for those who were highly educated.
What is also striking is how current and relevant the examination is, even with 40 years passing between the initial publication and today.
The machines feared have become the robots in our discourse, but the theme underneath it all is the fear of the lack of autonomy and self-direction that takes craftsmen to laborers, no matter if the skill is working with your hands or your mind.
I work with healthcare workers.
The same process Braverman described 40 years ago is happening now in our hospitals.
Executives are working to seize total control of the work process from healthcare workers, take decision-making away from caregivers, divide up the work into predefined tasks, and eliminate skill -- all in order to maximize profits.
Braverman wouldn't be surprised -- he argues convincingly that the need to accumulate capital compels management to constantly reorganize and degrade work.
This book is essential for understanding the changes in work and occupational shifts in the working class -- and it's also a powerful call for workers to resist.
This book changed my life when I entered vocational education.He covers the history and culture of a vibrant working class and all it's potential.My brother and I wrote an article to popularize it entitled: High Tech Myth, Low Tech Reality. Sadly all the predictions in our essay have come true. Sadly it would be published in Australia, India and elsewhere but not in the USA. Happily it won many awards. Enough about our essay, if you want to understand how labor has been degraded and why this is a must, must, must read book.
I am reading this for a marxist, socialist book group.
Although I have been resisting reading non-fiction lately, my commitment to the group convinced me to read despite my mood.
This is the first book I've read that focuses on how capitalism fucks with skilled workers.
I've been a skilled craftsperson for over 35 years and nothing I read seemed unfamiliar.
I realize that this is not the information we usually receive, yet it is the reality that most of us live.We need more books that focus on the lives of workers and their experiences in the workplace.
Brilliant critical analysis of the conditions of modern labor; Braverman takes a critical look at Taylorism and the effects of what is called "scientific management." Want to know why your job sucks? Feeling a bit alienated? Don't know how things got to where they are but are fed up with it? Well, this book won't give you all the answers, but it will set you on the right path. This was excellent!
I was very interested in the analysis of how the historical simplification of jobs makes a difference for workers on the micro level. But of course this whole line of literature related to the effects of "monopoly capital" ignored (and frustratingly, doesn't even address) Schumpeter, and we've seen it not borne out.
this books is one of my favorites of all time. so clear and well written and the content is a fantastic synthesis of both theory and application to conditions of labor both in the past and in the present. a great basis for understanding what is consistent in labor from a capitalist stand point as well as why labor has become particularly stultifying in later stage capitalism. highly recommended!
An excellent defense of Marxism and a reappropriaton of Marx's economic theories in an era of changing relations in advanced capitalism. One of the most important things discussed in this work is the fluidity of social class, which Braverman believes will ultimately lead to placement in either the proletariat or the bourgeois camp.
Important extention of Marx's analysis of capitalism--shows why class struggle is intrinsic to the work experience of everyone in our society. Demolishes the idea that just because we produce more, our lives are better. Echoes Marx in asserting that creative labor is an essential human need and shows why our society denies it to all but a small minority.
Henry Braverman worked in a few trades for many years before being working in publishing later in life. The intro drives a crucial wedge between sociological definitions of the working class vs the social relations that constitute a working class subject which befits Marxism.
An interesting look at how labor has been changed by technology. A big emphasis is made against Taylorism and Scientific Management (controlling meticulously the decions/process/results) which he argues degrades humanity and their need to imagine/condeptualize/communicate.
Harry Braverman's masterpiece. If you have ever wondered why your work is not giving the satisfaction it should, you will find out why. Does not matter whether you are white collar/blue collar or laborer or a knowledge worker, this book would have the answer. Absolutely must read.
its really cool
As a blue collar worker, this book is blowing my fucking mind.
KOBOBOOKS
Braverman makes a fundamental contribution to the way we understand the labor process under Fordism and port-Fordism.
