https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250839.Memoirs_of_an_Infantry_Officer
As Siegfried Sassoon sifts through his memories, while preparing to write this trilogy of the “fictionalized” version of his war experiences, I can’t even imagine the number of ghosts he must have stirred up.
Said Fricourt is full of dead; he saw one officer lying across a smashed machine-gun with his head bashed in---’a fine looking chap,’ he said, with some emotion, which rather surprised me.”I’ve read enough about war to have some understanding that there is no way for a soldier to know what particular experience will get to him or her.
It covers the period from 1915 to 1917; Sassoon’s time on the front line, the Battle of the Somme, his time recuperating from wounds, his protest about the war and ends with him being sent to Craiglockart, the psychiatric hospital for those with shellshock.Sassoon continues to be self-deprecating and tries to capture his feelings throughout, which were often contradictory.
There was a period of time when Sassoon thought he was going to be court-martialled and shot and this was a serious possibility.
One of the better war memoirs and I found Sassoon a good deal more engaging than Graves in “Goodbye to All That”.
This eminently unqualified (except by his place on the social ladder) individual assigned to lead his men in battle readily admits at one point that “I had no idea where our objective was, but the corporal informed me that we had reached it, and he seemed to know his business.” To me that statement alone stands as an utterly terrifying testimony to the situation for many of the men, both leaders and led, in the Great War. As the story opens Sherston at least has faith in both the alleged aims of the powers that are leading the war from his side as well and their ability to do so.
Sassoon's own war heroism is well documented, to the extent he received recommendations and awards for gallantry and became known to his men as "Mad Jack", but he himself describes these incidents in a very understated and matter of fact way, a style typical of aristocratic British people of his generation.
It follows that Sassoon thought Great Britain could pull out of the War without negative consequences, a hopelessly naive view in my opinion.
Over the course of the novel Sherston will begin to question the whole point of the war in which so many have lost their lives, and his desire to stand up against the war is balanced by his fear of what his fellow officers and his friends back home will think.
His feelings on the subject are so human and authentic that it's obvious to what degree the novel is autobiographical.The cast of characters is huge, and the reader soon loses track of all the different soldiers who pass through Sherston's life.
Classic WW I memoir thinly disguised as fiction in which 'George Sherston' is the pseudonym for Sassoon.
It begins several months into Sherston's tour of duty in France and covers his combat experiences and changing attitude towards the war.This is still one of the more effective accounts of life in the trenches and ,even eighty-three years after it's initial publication, an effective and visceral read.
Sassoon served in the Royal Welch Fusiliers with Robert Graves whose pseudonym is 'David Cromlech'.
Read Grave's own World War One memoir Goodbye to All That for a counterpart.
This is the 2nd volume of the Siegfried Sassoon autobiographical trilogy recounting his experiences of the First World War. No punches are withheld and it is a brutal commentary of trench warfare, the poor organisation skills and the boredom of stuck waiting for something to happen.
However, Sassoon is a master of he written word & the book keeps the reader interested throughout & you pop out the other end much surprised when you realise the long dead moments & short action sequences.This trilogy is so timely with the hoopla of the WW1 centenary celebrations currently occurring.
There are also quite a few good nonfiction accounts of the war written by Barbara Tuchman, such as THE ZIMMERMAN TELEGRAM that describes the way in which the United States really got into the war, not the sinking of the Lusitania, and Tuchman's Pulitzer Prize winning, THE GUNS OF AUGUST.
The anti-war comments about the war begin around 85% into the book.
These books should be read as a whole for those interested in WWI.
This is a fictionalised account of one of World War One's greatest poets, Siegfried Sassoon.
It's the second in the trilogy of the life of George Sherston.He describes the incident that won him a Military Cross.
When on convalescent leave, he decides to refuse to serve again in protest at the conduct of the war.
Sherston describes meeting a fictionalised Bertrand Russell and talking it over.Sassoon proved his bravery three times in my view.
First, in the endeavour that won him a Military Cross.
Absolutely wonderful read. Best enjoyed when added to other works from WWI, academic or memoir. Sassoon writes with a Blackadder-esque sense of humour about the ridiculous scenarios in which he finds himself. At the same time, his wistful discussions of trench warfare are sentimental and make great use of imagery. Read his poems, too.
Not actually a memoir; but a novel. Sequel to "Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man."
At first, I thought this might end up being a problem, but after some initial confusion over people who had obviously been introduced in the first book, I was fine.
I love how Sassoon deals with his anger about the war, his feelings towards the home front and the Army in this book.
It's likely that I'll end up reading the third novel, as it deals with the time that Sherston spent in Craiglockhart hospital, getting treatment for his shell shock.
Which, in this case, generally meants what it was like to be caught up in the war machine, and then to be back in England on leave (medical or otherwise) and with civilians who think they know.A couple other favourite excerpts:"...the father was proud of his disabled son, and I heard him telling one of the nurses hire splendidly the boy had done in the Gommecourt attack, showing her a letter, too, probably from the boy's colonel.
You see as soon as one gets across the Channel one sort of feels as if it's no good worrying anymore -- you know what I mean -- like being part of the Machine again, with nothing to be done except take one's chance.
If your main interest is a history of World War I this is not the book for you.
In the first part of the book Sassoon sums up this volume saying "...those who expect a universalization of the Great War must look for it elsewhere.
He carries a book on his pocket at all times, even when he is going into combat.
As the book progresses you realize Sassoon is describing unwelcome change in England.
Sassoon is a good writer and a very likable personality.
What makes this book so good is Sassoon's personality.
It surprises me how little the principles of infantry warfare have changed over the past 100 years since WWI.
Route marches, staff work, "young second lieutenants", etc etc - all this is stuff that we still talk about in the barracks today.Naturally I found the book quite interesting, for the perspective it presented on the horrors of war, and the technicalities of trench warfare.
The author also manages to put in a nuanced examination of the psyche of a frontline soldier (and how he seeks meaning in what he does), which gives the story some depth.
All in all, an interesting, readable book.
It was a really enjoyable read. Simplistic style that is still really well written and informative. And only a couple of moments where I wished that Sassoon hadn't graced his readers with the gory details.
What began as a half-hearted trot through as a 'fox-hunting man' ended in a spirited gallop as I not only completed book two but then went cantering on through the final volume of the trilogy.
Sherston's progress is marked by his growing conviction of the futility of fighting, a conviction that nevertheless resides alongside his determination to be in the thick of the fighting.
But Sherston knows that he is trapped in the reality of something so appallingly life-defining that it cannot - on a personal level - be denied.
It's just a pity (one feels) that the Boche can't be hunted like foxes!
Four stars. This excellent volume is the second of three in Siegfried Sassoon's semi-autobiographical WWI trilogy The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston:  Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man ,  Memoirs of an Infantry Officer , and  Sherston's Progress . The quality of the writing and its authenticity motivate me to give this volume four stars.Volume two comprises Sherston's first serious combat, his receipt of the Military Cross, two hospital stays and concomitant medical leaves, and finally his anti-
This excellent volume is the second of three in Siegfried Sassoon's semi-autobiographical WWI trilogy The Complete Memoirs of George Sherston: 
Sherston's Progress
. The quality of the writing and its authenticity motivate me to give this volume four stars.Volume two comprises Sherston's first serious combat, his receipt of the Military Cross, two hospital stays and concomitant medical leaves, and finally his anti-war protest that landed him in a psych hospital.Sherston's first medical crisis was due to disease, which killed two million soldiers in WWI.
His second medical crisis was due to a bullet, which killed many more.See 
I've read a number of WWI autobiographies, in search of an answer to how and why human beings could survive in the trenches - by every account, a horrific experience.
Sassoon's book is the best written answer I've come across.
Summary: they did it because, in the end, humans are capable of actions that no rational person would undertake.
You can order men to their deaths for no apparent purpose, and the vast majority of them, if raised as pre-war society deemed proper, will obey, even when they know their sacrifice will gain nothing.
Almost gave this one a miss after Memoirs of a Fox hunting Man was such a dreary slog. Either his style grew on me or I just found the content much more interesting. Looking forward to the last book in the trilogy.
" mad Jack " was quite a man . The slaughter that was the great war is unimaginable today fine book but as others note part of a series
Vivid descriptions of experiences at the front line and interesting accounts of the shifts in positions and deployments. Suggest reading the sequel. Poetic writer.
A gentle well bred voice talks of horrors - from a drowsy lawn amongst orchards to an infernal world
Beautifully written. A grim tale laced with dry wit. It's about the Great War, but about all wars, and the insidious momentum that keeps them going.
I think this story is about one man’s experience with the great war and his personal views on it, rather than just about the war.
It was hard for me to understand why he could not share his personal views on the war without being court-martialed or sent to a mental health asylum, as we now have free speech.
Then I realised his country was a different country, and in a different time, a time in which one saw war as a glorious thing and they thought his differing views would affect enlistment and public support.
All in all, I would say this is a great book.
Often sarcastic and humorous, this is an honest account of World War One in the boots of an infantry officer.
Though the second novel in a trilogy, I read this first and dove right into the life of George Sherston as he describes the horrors, emotions and trials the men in a Company face.
Part memoir, part fiction, part unsentimental recounting, this novel is very well written.
From tedium and boredom to utter fear and desolation, I concluded the novel with a clear image of WW1 in the trenches.
Not for the faint of heart, nor for those seeking deep characterization.
I was forced to read Memoirs if an Infantry Officer at 15 for my English O level where war poets and writers was one of the topics.
Our guide even took us to the grave of Sassoon's 'friend' and fellow officer whose death turned him into Mad Jack and the actions that won him the VC.
(It's also wonderful to be able to read at my pace and not worry about remembering text to quote in an exam) As a youth I also read Fox Hunting Man and would recommend starting there as Sassoon's war starts in this book.
Sherston seems to struggle with the balance of emotional and personal reactions to what he experiences and still understanding the excitement and fervor of believing yourself to be instrumental in making a difference to the outcome of battle.
Finally he comes to understand that there are personal and business interests which are of far greater importance than the survival of the common soldier and these will keep the war machine grinding on until they are ready to let it stop or one side or the other collapses.
Ook geen uitleg van de omgeving waarin de gebeurtenissen zich afspelen.
Als lezer moeit je maar raden hoe het militaire apparaat waarin Siegfried Sassoon zich beweegt is georganiseerd.
Wat is het verschil tussen een tweede luitenant en een kolonel?
Wat zijn de taken van een tweede luitenant?
Hij beperkt zich enkel tot zijn ervaringen als tweede luitenant in de Eerste Wereldoorlog.
Siegfried Sassoon vertelt over loopgraven met de wetenschap hoe het netwerk van loopgraven eruit zag.
Toch vier sterren omdat het boek ondanks bovenstaande punten goed geschreven is en een indringend beeld geeft van de ervaringen Siegfried Sassoon in de Eerste Wereldoorlog.
Liked this a lot - not as good as Goodbye To All That, but an unsparing view of the war in 1916 and 1917, through the eyes of Sherston, a thinly veiled version of the author.
Best on the daily mundane drill of war, and the life of the soldier, - his illnesses , time on the front, being moved around almost aimlessly, observing the first day of the Somme, returning home for leave and recuperation.
Not a strict accurate historical novel, much more of an impressionistic memoir, and one of the best.
