https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22594.Deus_Irae
PKD has explored the concept of a post apocalyptic counter or competing religion in other works - Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, The World Jones Made, The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch - Here, Tibor is set on a quest, almost fable-like in a PKD absurdist sci-fi kind of way, to find the God of Wrath, a man somehow responsible for the destruction of the last war (another similarity with Dr. Bloodmoney) and create a portrait of him, the man with no hands being a great and well respected artist.
Jedini Dikov roman koji se podosta razlikovao od ostalih koje sam pročitao - "Tamno skeniranje" mi je pokazao kako Dik može da bude veoma uvrnut...
Slikar kreće na hodočašće koje za svoj cilj ima vizuelno upoznavanje samoga Boga Gneva - jer on ne može da naslika realnu sliku Gnevnog ukoliko ga ne vidi svojim očima.
Zelazni i Dik u ovom romanu "pretresaju" religiju (i mitologiju), sagledavajući je na momente kao "sveti dim" (oblak koji ima svoju gustinu ali se lako može raspršiti ukoliko se vatra koja ga proizvodi ne održava) ili kao halucinaciju .
Autori se kroz ceo roman pitaju da li bog može biti dobar (tj.
Dick.
Dick began the book but realized he did not know enough about Christianity to finish it.
He asked Ted White to collaborate on it with him, but after reviewing the manuscript White never got started.
Zelazny discovered the manuscript in White's home in early 1968, read it, then contacted Dick and agreed to work on it with him.
Work proceeded sporadically over several years as each author forgot about it in turn (and Zelazny's cat took the opportunity to urinate on the original manuscript).
But they finished it quickly in the spring of 1975 when the publisher demanded the manuscript or repayment of the advance paid to Dick.
Jako zanimljiva knjiga koja govori o postapokalipticnom svetu u kome pored hriscanske crkve koja je na margini postoji i crkva Boga Gneava. Posto je gnev sve sto su ljudi i osetili na svojoj kozi vecina prezivelih se odlucuje da pristupi religiji koja slavi Karla Luftojfela kao boga gneva. Knjiga govori o hodocascu, zovotu na postapokalipticnoj zemlji, verbalnom sukobu dveju religija. Malo filozofije i religije u SF maniru, uzivacete.
And so, off goes Tibor into the mutant-inhabited wilderness, closely followed by Pete Sands, a devout Christian who is seeking to find God through drug experimentation, and who has decided to somehow sabotage Tibor's mission....As you can tell, this is a pretty way-out scenario, and Dick and Zelazny throw all sorts of crazy mishegas into their novel to keep things decidedly strange.
These questions regarding God and religion, especially following his so-called "pink light" incident of February '74, were to plague Dick for the rest of his life, getting an especial workover in his later Valis trilogy, but "Deus Irae" provides the reader with some valuable insight into the author's thoughts at this time.
Critics of Dick often cite paper-thin characters and weak plot to justify their criticism, but if you focus on these things you miss the attraction of his books.
Yes, seemingly obscure bits of exegesis sound strange coming from his characters mouths, and they may not always help move the plot along, but it's a train of thought that Dick is developing - one he's launched to make sense of the ideas and experiences he's had.As such, Deus Irae fits comfortably with the rest of the PKD canon, and Zelazny's contribution smooths some of Dick's rough edges.
I guess it's things lile this that explain the low score this book has received.
The style was more like that of a fantasy novel rather than scifi: A long journey or a pilgrimage. One can't help but try and distinguish what parts are PKD and which are Zelazney's but, overall, it flowed seamlessly enough, and though some of the narrative got a bit disjointed at times, and it's not the best to start with, it was still definitely a good read.
I mean, after a nuclear holocaust is a pretty good time to start worshipping an evil god amirite?The portrayal of post-apocolyptia was pretty great with the mutants and cults, and malfunctioning machines, and sparse, disconnected population centers.
I also loved that he included The Big C (a malevolent supercomputer which is breaking down and needs organic nutrients IE flesh to survive) from his earlier short story, that is a great element.
Well, maybe not *all* since some of the divine elements in the story seem to have real world consequences.
Takva dva oprečna duha, karaktera, pa i po samim temama koje su obrađivali, dali su jedno pravo malo blago - Deus Irae.
Kako će izgledati kršćanstvo nakon apokalipse, kako će se u tom svemu snaći roboti i računala, te koje će sve religije naći svoj put prema svjetlu...
"Najbolji Bog ostaje skriven!", ne možemo ga uslikati, naslikati, ne možemo se dičiti njime, a najčešće su obični ljuti ti koji postaju sveci.
Deus Irae?
Kako on ulazi u cijelu priču i tko je zapravo pijani tom i mutirani gušter, ostaje na nama da mozgamo nakon što završimo čitanje.
It falls into the large category of "probably good if I understood all of it". It's dense with philosophy, with characters prone to internal discussion and digression, and each one seems versed in details of Catharism and other variations of Christian theology. As such its larger themes are buried in the details of all these characters instead of the great sweep of the book.If I'm understanding the whole of it--probably not--it is that a mortal sees the Divine through the lens of his/her/its own existence, whether a Christian, a limbless phocomelus, or a mutant talking dung beetle.
A 4-star book with one star extra for sympathy. Seriously, 3.37!?This is pretty much Dr. Bloodmoney + the theology of the VALIS trilogy. AND THERE IS NOTHING NOT-AMAZING ABOUT THAT. It's still funny and quirky, too.I'm sure this is thanks to Zelazny, but this is one of the better written PKD books too (well, I'm sure any PKD book would feel that way after reading Clans of the Alphane Moon, but hey), and I actually would recommend this book to someone who just started reading PKD.
Dick illustrates his use of post-apocalyptic settings as social criticism to good effect here along with his ever questing questions of "What is real?" and "What is human?" while Zelazny ponders the role of myth and religion in society building.
The collaboration works very successfully, but each writer is better on their own - the possibility of a creative synthesis fails to deliver a grandeur product.
And in a world recovering from a nuclear holocaust the meaning of death and survival.If you have exhausted the supply of PKD and/or Roger Zelazny you definitely want to read this novel.
Deus Irae is the second PKD book i read featuring a main character with no arms and no legs.
This book combines Dr. Bloodmoney with the religious stuff of the valis trilogy, but sharpened into a more cohesive novel.
A very christian novel i might say.A bit like a canticle for leibowitz but with some hallucinogenic experiences, talking bugs, talking worms, talking factories but with more religion.
I never fault i needed some religious background to read canticle, with Deus Irae i did in parts..
Its a really fun read, most of the time.I usually cringe at the thought of dual authors, but this book mostly works out well.
Molto interessante questo romanzo che esplora l'importanza della religione e il ruolo del dio: è buono o cattivo? Può permettere che accadano morte è distruzione, malformazioni e mostri? Ma soprattutto di cosa ha bisogno ognuno di noi, di un dio confortante o di un dio che punisce?
8/10
Questa volta gli scienziati della parola (critici, lettarati e chi più ne ha, più ne metta) sono quelli che brancolano un po' nel buio.Appartenente alla tarda produzione di Dick, quella più metafisica/religiosa, quando l'autore aveva cominciato a sentire le voci ed avere esperienze mistiche (credeva di essere l'alter ego di un cristiano perseguitato dai romani nel I sec.
E sicuramente ciò non si può imputare alla collaborazione con Zelazny, che invece sembra aver suggerito alla sciatta scrittura di Dick dove mettere correttamente le virgole.Quindi un Dick più chiaro nella scrittura, ma sempre acuto e cervellotico.
This work explores a perennial issue in face of utter destruction and misery: the philosophical problem of theodicy, or the compatibility between the existence of an evil which reigns so supremely as to allow the world to be devastated and the existence of a goodly, omnipotent God. It depicts a society where the old Christian religion, their numbers rapidly declining, was superseded by an apocalyptic cult, the Servants of Wrath.The SoW deified the man who brought civilization to its end, the creator of the bomb, Carl Lufteufel -- the Deus Irae.
I love Roger Zelazny and enjoy Dick's less drug-infused works, and I just read the similar-in-theme A Canticle for Leibowitz, so I was pretty excited for this book.
Unfortunately, Deus Irae comes up short on every front.
Deus Irae is extremely short at just under 200 pages, and it feels rushed.
The book seems to be striving for profundity (which Canticle did so well) but never really achieves it.
Deus Irae is entirely forgettable and not even worth the two hours it takes to read, a terrible shame from two such fine authors.

Instead of being thrown into the strange post apocalyptic world and figuring it out as you go this novel spent the first 60 or so pages explaining at great length why everything happened and how everything was built up in conversations between the characters.
A great example of ignoring the rule, show don't tell.
It also made no sense to me how these people who'd grown up in this post apocalyptic society knew SO much about pre was culture and consumer goods!
Especially when they'd been ignoring the data banks.
Dick.
Conceptually it's interesting - the town we begin in is split between Christians and those who follow the man who essentially caused armageddon during the last war.
A painter is sent to find this man, the Deus Irae, to paint his true likeness.
But the painter has no limbs because of the war or a birth defect due to the fallout (not sure) and so the journey is going to be perilous.
What happens along the way is Dick's brand of weirdness, and some of it is understood and makes its point, but some of it is just too out there and is distracting because you don't understand what it is he's really trying to create with these chapters.
Listening to for a podcast. I was bored in the beginning but some scenes catch my attention. Mostly domestic scenes talking about religion really.FINISH:For hard core Philip K. Dick fans only, with a special interest in comparing religions. It almost feels like serialized adventures in the desert with strange creatures. I have to admit a main character with no arms or legs is unique. The narrator really brings some annoying characters to life.
Actually this is a strange book. While it starts off trying to find its foothold, being somewhat awkward and language being a bit labored, soon enough it finds its feet indeed and flows effortlessly and nicely. Really bleak and with equal amounts of self-delusion and despair, futility and vain hope, turns out to be a pretty good book. Recommended (3.5 stars)
I enjoyed  Deus Irae quite a bit, but not quite as much as I enjoy  Phillip K. Dick or  Roger Zelazny individually. The overall story arc felt like something Dick would come up with, while the flow of the text seemed more like Zelazny's. Even if I do like each of these authors on their own more than teamed up, this novel is still absolutely worth the read.
a little strange, and doesn't completely come fully together as a novel, yet, each chapter, each page held my interest fully and I enjoyed the prose.Not a good representation of Dick or Zelazny, I'd recommend reading their major works first, but no reason to avoid this title either.
gave me nightmares for 2 nights
Deus Irae is the post-fallout Wizard of Oz.A quest for the true image of God, encountering all manner of creature and landscape along the way. But Tibor is no Dorothy and his mission is all his own.Less a novel and more a series of episodes around the themes of theology, Deus Irae is extremely colorful and the writing is oftentimes stunning: many passages I reread just for the pleasure: Here! The black-spotted cow drawing the bicycle cart. In the center of the cart. And at the doorway of the sac
It’s maybe the only bit of this novel (aside from one other thing I’ll mention later) that I didn’t like.Tibor’s encounterJust before Tibor meets his God he encounters the slime-worm and he sees that the slime is having weird and detrimental effects on the plants around him.
My point is that maybe there was some toxin in the slime, that would hallucinate the blue-jay and the image-of-god and the restored limbs and maybe even the village - we never go to the village after he sees it with the blue-jay, right?It’s a little weird that he ‘knows’ where to go if this is all in his head but actually if the village does’t exist either then this interpretation makes some sense: he just wanders off into a field until the axle breaks and Pete finds him.
Detta är ju minst sagt lite av ett drömsamarbete, om man skall dra till med en underdrift.
Men visst fan var det en bra bok, om än som minst sagt är lite udda, till och med med tanke på författarna.
Personen som skall fotas anses vara den jordiska skepnaden för nämnda gud och är den som bär ansvaret för att världen befinner sig i det förstörda skick den gör.
Men så är jag ju i och för sig en fanboy för bägge författare så jag är nog minst sagt lite jävig.
As far as collaborations go, this came out pretty well.A lot of people say this is a reworking of an earlier Dick book, Dr Bloodmoney (which is great), and I can see why: the setting is similar, they both feature phomoculuses (another classic Dick theme), and they both feature world ending scientists as important characters.
People usually go to the typical (and often valid) criticisms of Dick, but here I feel like Zelazny has elevated the characters slightly, and made the dialog feel more human.
I really enjoyed it, but it is heavy on the theology and has a crazy plot.
My understanding is that Dick started the book, but put it down and offered it to another writer because he didn’t know enough about Christianity to finish it.
Zelazny saw it at the other writer’s house and offered to finish it for Dick.
So part of the fun of this book is trying to guess who wrote what parts.
This only being the second book by Dick I’ve read, but the fifth by Zelazny, I still had fun playing guess the author.
