https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/377889.The_Children_of_Green_Knowe
The Children of Green Knowe is a story where you thoroughly forget its being just a story.
For me it was one of those books that reminded me how I felt when I was little and holidays came, what I wished and prayed for and seemed to forget after I grew up, but not entirely.
Tolly meets at Green Knowe with children who lived there centuries ago, directly and through his great-grandma's stories.
The house, the surroundings, the stories, the characters are so alive and the appeal to the reader's imagination so natural I can only regret missing the Green Knowe Chronicles for so long.
It's obvious that that's what Tolly's strange new playmates are, at least to us, but they seem as alive as anyone else in the story, which moves seamlessly from present to past to present again, using the medium of the grandmother's stories, coupled with Tolly's curiousity and the childrens' memories.Green Knowe - once known as Green Noah, but renamed because of a dreadful association - is a house where things come unexpectedly to life, and where the past lies side by side with the present.
4.5 starsA terribly dated and terribly charming story of a small boy's stay with his grandma in a haunted house and his adventures there. I remember reading this as a child and this time I listened on audio. It's quite warm here at the moment and the narrator had a very plummy British accent with received pronounciation which was actually quite embarrassing when I had to slow the car near pedestrians, and they could hear it through my open window!Generations of the same family and gamekeepers had lived at the Green Knowe property and the stories shared were rather lovely.
One night when I was a teenager I heard my mother go into my younger sister's room because she was crying. Turns out the book she was reading scared her, which of course piqued my interest. It was The Children of Green Knowe, and it didn't scare me, and I loved it. I always meant to read the rest of the series but never did. Now they've been reissued with Brett Helquist covers. I must get the whole series and read them all!
Green Knowe is a fascinating house, with a long history going back to the crusades, and although Tolly has never been there before, he feels that he has come home, and Mrs. Oldknow greets him, "Ah, so you've come back!" The manor is filled with objects redolent of history and love and magic: a doll's house that duplicates the entire manor house; a rocking horse with real horse's hair; a life-like wooden Japanese mouse (that may come alive when Tolly is asleep); mirrors that double the treasures of the house and make them more vivid and mysterious; and a painting of two boys and a girl and their mother and grandmother, Tolly's ancestors from the seventeenth century.
I love these books, and The Children of Green Knowe, first in the series is one of my favorites(1). The Green Knowe series as a whole is the story of a house that has stood for so long and been loved so well that time is flexible. People who lived in and loved the house can meet, even after centuries.The Children of Greene Knowe opens as Tolly makes his first trip to stay there with his great grandmother, whom he has never met. He is in initially nervous, but soon comes to love the place and me
People who lived in and loved the house can meet, even after centuries.The Children of Greene Knowe opens as Tolly makes his first trip to stay there with his great grandmother, whom he has never met.
Tolly is a young boy, and Grandmother Oldknow is adult, but they are able to share their love of the house while she teaches him of its history and shares his joy as he finds stashes of the other children's belongings--even if she does have to caution him to "Stop putting swords through the bedclothes" at one point.I also appreciated the unpredictable, sometimes frustrating nature of the house's magic.
His great-grandmother OldKnow sends for him to come to live with her at the family home Green Knowe.
He is warmly welcomed by his great-grandmother who immediately tells him this is his home and shows him portraits of his ancestors.I have to admit that my heart was touched by the kindness shown to this child at his boarding school, by the cab driver, by the groundskeeper, and by his great-grandmother.
The great-grandmother herself has wild birds eat from her hands and Tolly's too.I know I will be dipping into this magical book often to reread favorite scenes.
This is a great kids story full of wonder set in a rural English manor. There's just a few characters, so they're easy to keep track of & they're great. It's written with enough description that I almost felt I was there & really wished I was. It's a childhood fantasy that any kid would love.It's fairly short & well narrated by Simon Vance. If there is an edition with pictures, it would probably be marvelous. Highly recommended.
The young boy Tolly meets his great grandmother for the first time and is greeted by her: "So you've come back!" I wondered whose face it would be of all the faces I knew." This is a rich story of recognizing your place in the fabric of time and the line of family.
This chronicle of Green Knowe (there are several in this 1950's series) contains many elements including that of home and connection -- giving young readers, especially, much to contemplate.I wouldn't hesitate to give this book to anyone, young or old, as Lucy Maria Boston's writing is rich, pleasurable, and ageless.
Toto, indeed.The trip to Green Noah, as his great-grandmother's family estate is known, is fraught with danger because of recent flooding.
Toseland doesn't mind much, however, because now he's got his grandmother, a new name, Tolly, and wonderful places to explore.
The more stories Mrs. Oldknow tells Tolly about the children, the more clearly he can see their ghosts and interact with them.
I think the general gist of the story is that the whole family quasi-reincarnates, so Tolly is meeting prior versions of himself, his great-grandmother, and his mother.
The relationship of Tolly and his grandmother is a very fine achievement by Boston.
I loved the way they communicated and that they ate in the kitchen in front of the fire and shared their stories and adventures; it felt real and true.
Theirs was a mutually nurturing connection.There is so much to recommend here: a ghost story, a Christmas story, and elements of magic and the fantastic.
So much of life is seemingly magical to children.
However, half the enjoyment of this book is the "writing," the way in which the story is told - quite beautiful.
Like many of my generation, I was spellbound by the BBC's 1980s adaptation of Lucy Boston's "The Children of Green Knowe".
It was one of those high quality children's dramas for which the BBC was renowned at that time and to this day, my sister and I will burst into giggles if one of us utters the line, "Green Noah!
Demon Tree!"Regular readers of my reviews will see a pattern emerging, in that I have a penchant for time travel and the supernatural - but what Lucy Boston cleverly does in this, and in her later Green Knowe stories, is to turn the haunted into the haunter, with the present day child occasionally becoming a ghost in the past.
I have a long blog about this book and what it meant to me, and perhaps the best thing I can do is point you to that post! Briefly, this book has wonderful characters and a great sense of place, and I reread it every Christmas, almost without fail. Here's my long review: http://mary-j-59.livejournal.com/2119...
We always wanted to write "our own myths" - as an adult, that seems pretty much what grownups do, but that's another story:)This was one book I kept for myself because I thought that nobody else would understand the gravity of it.
That was enough to suck me in, even then.This story touches on a child's right to be alone, an interest in what came before him-herself, life and death, family, and the weight of mythology and religion.
Review originally posted HEREThis is seriously one of the worst books I've ever read.
I am surprised it made the list of top 100.
It had a lot of potential-the plot and characters both seemed interesting, but the book is BORING.
Through 90 percent of the book, we read how Tolly, the little boy, explores the house and grounds (with mundane activity), listens to birds, and plays flutes.
The actions are very mundane-look at the book cover; that's pretty much the whole book.
Plus, the book is creepy.
Tolly comes to live with his great-grandmother in a huge manor house that has existed for centuries. He gradually comes to meet and befriend the children who haunt the house. A gothic novel for the younger set.
A lonely 7 year old boy Toseland 'Tolly' goes to live with his great grandmother in an old house during the holidays from boarding school.
His great grandmother is filling the hole in his life and its lovely to see their relationship grow – "He was in high spirits and had more grins than he knew what to do with".
He explores the house and grounds and becomes aware of laughter and children's voices could there be other children living in the house?It’s a short book but packs a lot into its few pages very nostalgic of a simpler time when a small gift given at Christmas bought great pleasure in stark contrast to the consumer led lifestyle of today.Highly recommend.

This classic tale of an imaginative young boy and his equally imaginative great-grandmother, set during Christmas season at an old mansion haunted by three children from the past, is quite delightful. In this excellent audiobook, the story is vividly brought to life by narrator Simon Vance.
What a sweet story and made even better with Simon Vance narrating. Not to be missed, he even sings the songs in Granny's voice!My daughter recommended the book to me.The author started writing the stories of Green Knowe at the age of 62. A lonely little boy goes to live with his great grandmother in a castle in a small village. The family has lived there for years and years and years and there are ghosts of the children and other family members that visit the fairy-like setting.
Enchanting children's book, in the vein of The Secret Garden, which revolves around a lonely boy who comes to live with an aged relative in an isolated country house. It seems the house is haunted by the friendly spirits of some children who once lived there. That sounds rather trite as I write it, but the unfolding of the story is rather magical and lyrical, with an innocence that is special to the children's books from earlier eras.
My seven year old son, ten year old daughter and I all really enjoyed this story. It's special, magical even and old fashioned. It is a ghost story that depicts "ghosts" just the way I think of them (not at all scary). Here's a link to the list of GK booksThe Chimneys is now called The Treasure of GKhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Green_Kn...
In light of Goodreads' new censorship policy, I am no longer posting reviews on this site. You can read it here.
The Children of Green Knowe is a beautifully written and sweet but rather boring and a bit racist children’s ghost story.
Would’ve given it three stars but the very problematic Romani rep means I’m docking a star. Also there...wasn’t really much of a plot? Eh.
The Children of Green Knowe is a quiet, gentle book originally published in 1955, with no real plot or pacing or mystery to solve.
The story involves a young boy, Toseland, or Tolly as he is called, who goes to live with his great-grandmother in an ancient castle-like home in England.
Boston creates a magical but realistic world, and for a child who loves castles or is fascinated by olden times, or who might like a friendly ghost story, this could be enchanting.
It was Boston's home and the inspiration for Green Knowe.
It soon becomes apparent that there are unusual presences in the house – three children, whom Tolly at first cannot see, until they get used to him and show themselves.
He explores the house and the grounds, with its magic living topiary, and finds items the children loved most in life.I found this to be a quaint, light children’s fantasy.
It’s somewhat dreamlike in tone, with several scenes, such as Tolly’s first sight of the house and its flooded grounds, approaching by boat, that are especially otherworldly.
Mrs. Oldknow tells a few vignettes about the children’s deeds when they were alive, but other than these, there is no conflict to speak of.
This is an unusual tale; it's a fairly short book, but packs a lot into the pages.
The story begins with a gloomy English setting...Earlier this year I began reading the hardcover edition with ISBN13 9780152024628 of this book as it had been one of the selections of our local library's children's book club.
I have so much on my 'to-read' list that I just don't have time for something that doesn't immediately grab me.So that's why I was thrilled to see that our local library has this audio CD edition available.
Otherwise I would never be able to finish the number of books I do now.
The opening scene in which the young protagonist, Tolly, is conveyed into the magical world of Green Knowe/Noah by boat and lantern-light is one of the most beautiful scenes in all children's literature.
The good humour and loving friendship between Tolly, Mrs Oldknow and Boggins, brought to mind Shirley Hughes's stories and also the relationship between the boy-mouse narrator and his grandmother in Roald Dahl's The Witches: earnest, innocent and heartwarming.
Imbued with atmosphere and charm, this story could only have come from a British author; the Americans just can't capture the enchanting innocence and magic of a countryside childhood.
One of my very favorites in life.
I have read it many times but this time was different because I visited the Manor at Hemingford Grey (the model for the house in Green Knowe) in England this spring.
This time I *saw* the house in the descriptions.
Everything was informed by that experience.
One odd thing is that the house and everything connected with it is much smaller in real life than I had imagined, including the St. Christopher statue.
Things here tend to be bigger so we use a larger measuring stick.
