https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/102661.The_Diviners
Very strong female character in the person of Morag Gunn.
Morag rose from that sorry early years and made own life-altering decisions in her life so strong that she seems to have the biggest ball among the characters including her good-for-nothing professor-husband and even her subsequent lovers.The most interesting part of this book for me is the first 50 pages.
Oh I just miss my sister and should visit her someday probably when I finally retire from my corporate job.But if you decide to read this book, it is because you like strong female characters.
I feel like maybe my fears and hopes and expectations for life have been somehow borrowed from a Laurence novel; put another way, I wonder whether Laurence doesn’t anticipate and - perfectly - describe my feelings through her beautiful and flawed protagonists.You’re thinking, yes, but in A Jest of God, Rachel is nothing but a simpering pathetic woman who longs for sexual realization, freedom and above all the “strength of conviction,” and in The Diviners Morag seems to embody this very strength (often describing her own strength, vivid in her eyes, and making difficult decisions that no doubt call upon this certain kind of strength).
And if there's one thing I refuse to do is spend substantial amounts of time with a whiner.
Barring the brief period she spent spineless and married to the good professor, Morag's got balls.
A number of big issues are tackled in this book but tackled gracefully, in the context of story and not for mere didactic purposes, and in a way that leaves you with more questions than before and grateful for it.
Laurence is clearly a prose master and if she were alive today, I'd send her a strongly-worded letter saying so (leaving out the bits about me thinking Rachel Cameron and Stacy MacAindra were whiners).
A good thing to experience, this.
I bought it entirely because I was interested in the sheet music at the back, and I had no intention of actually reading the book.
But after reading the lyrics of the songs, I wanted to know who was Lazarus, King of Nothing?
The themes and hidden meanings are richly arranged, Bois Brulees, for example, after the burning of Piquette.
It's as if you know the characters, and love them, no matter how flawed they're portrayed.
But you couldn't help fall in love with him alongside Morag.
You essentially become the main character, you love her daughter and you want to slap her senseless at the same time.
It reminded me so much of several significant events in my own life, and I can vividly rember them.
I think the characters in the book were depicted very realistically and believable, flaws and all.
The book was written in the 1970's and I hope our society has evolved somewhat beyond the cruel and thoughtless way humans can treat each other, but in many ways the challeges and prejudicies depicted in the book are still going on today.
As i have lived in manitoba all my life, it was also a hoot to have all the familiar geography of my home province referred to.
I read this when I was about 16, and Christy's "by their garbage shall ye know them" speech was life changing. Love this book. I've read it multiple times, but haven't re-read it in about 15 years. I should again.
As good as or better than The Stone Angel which is one of my favourite books of all time. Well now this is too.

When I picked this up at the library book sale (I think it was), I felt as if it must be a treasure.This is told in such an interesting manner.
We know only what Morag sees and thinks, what the other characters tell her - third person limited.Morag is also told stories.
Morag, who is a successful writer in the parts told in the present, was raised in working-class poverty.
Like being able to get out of Manawaka and never come back.
Which is, one day she will be on one of those trains, going to the city and maybe even further than the city.
She always felt out of place and awkward, didn't fit in and now, a successful writer in middle age, she is reflecting back on her life as she waits for and worries about her teenage daughter Pique who has taken off and gone to the west coast.Snippets of Morag's life are told as if watching a home movie or reading an excerpt from a journal and include Christie's tall stories, her love affairs, her marriage and other episodes from her life as she matches snapshots to those memories.

Again and again, Morag is forced to test her strength against the world - and finally achieves the life she had determined would be hers."This book took me a LONG time to get into at all.
While the fact remains that I wasn't overly enamored with the way it was written, I can appreciate why it was considered such an important book when it was written.
Morag is a woman who decides to have a baby, and decides to have it alone.
Unheard of to the point where Margaret Laurence apparently got death threats after publishing this book.
Her backstory is told as a series of "snapshots" from her past, which seems a bit sloppy.
We know lots about Morag, because the story is told from her point of view.
I don't know, perhaps I need to open up more to the people around me, but some of the conversations between Morag and her neighbors, and her daughter seemed unrealistic, but necessary to tell the story.
This is my first book by Margaret Laurence and I look forward to reading more of her work.
The strong female characters of Morag and Pique are believable and memorable as they each face the various challenges in their life.
Jules, Christie and Royland are the important male characters in this novel and each in their own way refuse the role society tries to give them.
The Diviner's is an interesting choice of title for the novel when only Royland is a diviner in the sense of locating water for well.
However, Morag, Pique and Jules all seem to be searching for their place in the world and which may be another type of divining.
Every time Morag mirrored what I knew about Margaret Laurence's history, I felt a bit taken out of the story, as though I had seen a little flag that said: these parts are true.As writing a novel is a bit of alchemy I don't really understand, I liked these self-reflective bits on the process:I used to think that words could do anything.
It's true that we can no more imagine, or really want to know, the inner-workings of anyone else's mind, any more than we can help being shocked by seeing a teacher at the grocery store when we're little kids:Whatever is happening to Pique is not what I think is happening, whatever that may be.
"...the first of the swallow children had taken off and was now perched or rather huddled in feather-ruffled and uncertain fashion on a low branch of the elm.
She kept on looking.
Innumerable swallows (parents, aunts and uncles, cousins) veered in towards the nest and veered of again, squeeping in high-pitched voices, obviously saying This is how you fly, kids!
The other four, one by one were lured out, finally, shakily, and landed beside their courageous sibling on the elm bough.
All five sat there, looking dejected.
Certainly made me think about ancestry/heritage and how we don't tend to know where we actually come from unless we hunt for it, like Pique wishes to do.
Is identity something borne from a past we know little of?
Is our ancestors' past prior to our existence even relevant in shaping who we are today?
I'd also like to think men have come a long way since then too, the book's men include one that has affairs, one that has little contact with his own daughter and one that is extremely patronising and controlling - hardly shining examples!
A wonderful book with characters so richly rendered I easily became invested in them, and could readily identify with many of their doubts, wishes and fears.
I loved in particular Christie Logan and his wisdom, which Morag appreciates too late (I, too, have had this heartbreaking experience of too late).
I also appreciated the complexity of Morag's thoughts, feelings, and decision making, and the unique device of the "movie" memories, which really is how memories function (in my experience).
A beautiful book that I would read again.
As a rule, I'm generally not a fan of books that focus on the more cynical, crustier side of life, but quite often I can stomach them if they have redeeming qualities such as enjoyable/relatable characters, beauty in the writing, clever dialogue, etc.
I didn't care about the main character at all, and certainly didn't care about her sex life or her road to becoming an author that I would never read or the many and varied ways in which she screwed up her child or the wonderful stories and songs about things that her ancestors may or may not have done...
Tohle není knížka, kterou přečtete na jeden zátah. Je pomalejší, ale o to intenzivnější. Dlouho jsem se teď nemohla do ničeho začíst, až jsem sáhla po téhle odepsané knížce z knihovny, na kterou jsem náhodou při výprodeji za 5 Kč narazila. Stylově i obsahově rozhodně zajímavá.
For the first 100 pages or so I was tempted to put this book down and move onto something that moved a little quicker. My patience was greatly rewarded. The Diviners is one of the most thought provoking books I have ever read.
I discovered Margaret Laurence through the first in the Manakwa series, The Stone Angel, a marvellous novel told in the voice of an angry 90-year old woman who doesn't want to be locked up in an old folks' home.
Now I have three of them in my TBR pile.[return][return]I picked this first, not realising it was the last, and read it over a couple of days while stuck at home with a cold.
But then I realised that Laurence wrote this series in the 60s and 70s, before the women's movement had really started, before Margaret Atwood, before Alice Munro ...
In fact, about a quarter of the way in, I gave up on reading it, and went to read a synopsis instead (so I would have an idea of what people were talking about at book club).
Even though I'd "spoiled" the ending, it seemed like a story worth living through.
They seemed like good people, and she seemed ungrateful.
Her relationship with Jules was stilted, which seemed a little more reasonable, being young love and all.
It wasn't until after she left Brooke and started preparing for Pique that I started to understand Morag.
It was definitely a story worth living through.

I love Libba Bray's books for young adults and have read several, but I feel sad knowing that one of the finest pieces of Canadian fiction (and by this point in time a true classic) no longer ranks in the top ten Google search based on the title alone -- all the top ranking results go to Libba Bray's new book.
It is one of the finest pieces of writing from a Canadian author.
If you have not read Margaret Laurence, I urge you to explore her writings.
il suo è un racconto onesto e pieno di dolore- in cui la protagonista si mette completamente a nudo, non tralasciando nemmeno i particolari più spiacevoli e gli errori, usando le parole per evocare ricordi e renderli tangibili facendoli diventare la chiave di lettura del presente.
romanzo davvero bello, non semplice, spesso duro e sgradevole ma di enorme onestà e grandiosamente umano (su tutti domina il personaggio di christie, lo spazzino raccontastorie, un vero puro folle le cui sfaccettature sfolgorano tra le pagine).
This book starts slowly, and you think it's going to be another yawn of a Canadian prairie tale. Although Laurence uses unconventional and not always wholly effective formal aspects (or are they typos from the publisher?), the book's content is imaginative and provocative. Her style shifts as the character ages, and she uses narrative voices that, although not always concise, are realistic and engaging.
There is nothing wrong with Margaret Laurence’s The Diviners. But I can’t quite enjoy myself. While the story is interesting, and the characters sympathetic, I can never entirely embrace the novel. And around page five-hundred, when it has worn out its welcome, it comes to such a neat little closure, everything fitting together, that I can’t help but feel bored.
Another book that I had to read in high school. Another book that shouldn't be selected for teenagers to read. Maybe it spoke to my English teacher, but it certainly didn't reach out to me. I couldn't relate to Morag at all and the fact that I had to complete an intense study at the themes and character flaws, etc., I only ended up hating the book more.
I am just finished and still processing this one so this review will be short. For me, Morag was often unlikeable but almost always sympathetic. I enjoyed the back-and-forth through time settings and snippets. There were times when I wanted to throw the book across the room due to some character's (usually Morag's) actions and/or decisions, but still felt compelled to keep reading.
