https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/245896.The_Nuer
The way that E-P describes the Nuer not only fits Hobbes' description of humans in a state of nature, but at many points borrows language from Hobbes.
The Hobbesian argument is that the state of nature compels humans to create government.
E-P's argument is that the Nuer, even as examples of Hobbes' imagined state of nature, have no government.
This is an important point, and a challenge to a great deal of political theory.It is easy to get bogged down in recent criticisms of E-P and represent this book as somehow complicit in British colonialism.
In the grand tradition of unself-consciously Othering the subject of study. With about 70 pages on cattle.
Essentially, there's this magical mechanism that deals with conflict and violence – fusion and fission – within the systemic system that allows it to restore equilibrium all the time.uhhhh I had many problems with this text, but that's probably because I'm not a fan of structural functionalism and I don't like old white men calling the "natives" they observe "savages." How uncouth.
I promise that I am not going to chunk up my reading list with school books, but this was pretty interesting both as a time capsule and a way of understanding the Sudan. There are also a couple of funny, why-won't-these-savages-respect-me-as-an-important-anthropogist moments. I know that when reading Dave Eggers book I wish a had a better sense of tribal systems and in its overly western theoretical style, this book provides that. What I am mainly recommending here is a leaf through.
colonialist nonsense, but a first effort at true ethnography, just misguided.
In summary, what Evans-Pritchard's detailed studies show, is that people who have different modes of production have different social organisation which consequently shapes different ideas in peoples heads.
Trying to get the heads around these ideas, is very difficult for those who view from outside.
This is why it is so wrong to described pre-capitalist, or even pre-class modes of production as "primitive".
It is for this reason that the author spends so much time looking at the details of inter-tribal relations and the like.
I don't usually go out of my way to review school books but my god. This is the driest, most boring steaming pile of cow feces that I've ever read. Why are there 80 pages about cows? no one asked for this, literally no one. I can understand and appreciate why this was an important work of ethnography at the time but his attempts to be a passive observer are tainted by inherit colonialist perspectives.
Lots of cows. Cool photos. Kind of dated "western" view of native tribes.
"The Nuer" is a superb ethnographic work done by Evans-Pritchard.
account we learn that the Nuer created an almost anarchist society -- they don't had political chiefs, and live under no authority pressure.
Evans-Pritchard noted that, and I suspect he treated the political system of Nuer as a kind of superior to our own (western).
And in some parts of the book you can really find a certain awe to Nuer: from between them Evans-Pritchard himself had to live like a Nuer, and the Nuer treat him like an equal.
I'd like to congratulate Evans-Pritchard on his ability to destroy fun. This anthropologist successfully took the rich, incredible, fascinating culture of the Nuer, and turned into the most boring, snooze-worthy technical functionalist manual I could possibly imagine in my wildest dreams. It's as if someone asked him to cook the best meal you could imagine, and he cooked it with no spices, no moisture, no flavor, and on top of that, burned the shit out of it.
Although this book is packed with some very interesting information, it is dry, and casual readers of ethnographies may have a hard time reading it. I also have to say that although he is writing from a British structural functionalism perspective, he is still very liberal in his description of the Nuer. In short, very interesting, but also, very dry.
In poche parole, i nuer non hanno voglia di coltivare, non hanno voglia di uccidere bestiame, selvaggina o pesci, non mangiano frutti selvatici, non commerciano e poi si lamentano se patiscono la fame... l'importante è aver, finalmente, finito i compiti.
Evans-Pritchard was true to his time when it comes to kinship and social theory. Women are irrelevant in discussions about society, political and domestic domains are separate, etc. This is a great book to read to study how these theories are applied, and it also shows how lacking they can be.
a man before his time, or outside of it. ha.
Bone chilling. This demonstrates what colonial powers have been asking anthropologists to do for centuries.
My first anthro/ethnography experience. Not nearly as painful as I expected.
Professor Young's Ethnography class reading. Very in-depth descriptions about social structures at play.
Classic British structuralist anthropology.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11246823
anthropology
Classic. Colonialist. Depressing. And way too much about cattle. Yet important to know where Anthropology's roots are in order to help it grow away from them.
An incredibly dry read, with a lot of Evans-Pritchard's voice in it. Remains one of the leading texts on the Nuer, but could be quite out of date.
Read for college Introduction to Cultural Anthropology. Ohhhh this book was so dry.
this book has very interesting ethnographic data.
Informative read. Definitely one of the founding works that defined the theories and methods of modern anthropology, furthering Malinowski's established methods.
A classic
Excelente etnografia, rica em todos os sentidos.
It's a classic and worth a read if you are interested in understanding the development of anthropology and ethnography.
