https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/588624.Orphan_of_Asia
For a variety of reasons, fiction from colonial Taiwan (1895–1945) is not well known beyond scholars of Taiwanese literature, colonialism, or Japanese empire. Orphan of Asia is not a good book so much for its plot, but for Wu Zhuoliu's exploration of the psyche of a colonized Taiwanese man. There are many, often competing implications to be drawn about colonialism, nationality, gender, race, and a whole swath of other issues, which has led to Orphan of Asia gaining recognition as one of the most important books of colonial Taiwanese literature—in my opinion, deservedly so.
The protagonist, Hu Taiming, is educated so cross-culturally that he ceases to belong to any one culture. Every traditional activity, even a going-away party staged for him by his own family, seems stupid and indulgent to him. Furthermore, he feels at home nowhere and is suspected by everyone: Traveling between Taiwan, Japan, and Mainland China, he is regarded everywhere as an outsider, not to be trusted. If Hu's predicament weren't so sympathetic, and the writing not so good, the book would be an unmitigated turn-off. However, it is very well done and hard to put down.
A pleasant read but a tragic tale told mostly in third person about an idealistic individual trapped between two cultures in a world being drawn into the chaoitic vortex of WW II in Asia.
This book built very slowly for me and I had trouble understanding the main character Hu Taiming for quite a while.
By the last third I was completely empathizing with him and the situations swirling around him and I dreaded ending the book because it became clear how it would end for him.
I wonder how fictional this story really is?
I feel as if Hu Taiming is meant to stand as a metaphor for all of Taiwan during the Japanese colonial era.
I recommend this to anyone interested in the period, Taiwan, Japan's imperialism in Asia and ww2 and colonialism more broadly!
As others have pointed out, the book's merits are perhaps more in its historically and culturally significant depiction of identity than in its prose. It is an important document in understanding the difficult issues of national and cultural identity in Taiwan, a society that has been balancing between the competing influences of China and Japan. The English translation is of high quality throughout, making it enjoyable to read.
my rating refers to the translation. it's serviceable and it reads well, but sometimes the english really tripped me up (especially with the poems). side note: interesting and also kind of funny (as in funny-haha) that this book would be billed as "modern chinese literature from taiwan." you could contest like almost every word in that sentence!
a decent portrait of cultural rejection, though i thought the ending was a implausible and unsatisfying. it was also lacking in details and we never really feel that this person is a human being, not just a personification of taiwan. perhaps it was too ambitious to try to do in in 200-odd pages.
I read the Chinese translation (original in Japanese) and I'm very impressed by the novel. It's dark, but real. Taiming is definitely struggling to belong to something but ultimately failed because there's no room for him.
Finished this awhile ago. There might be a review in the offing, but maybe not.If you want to know about Taiwan, particularly her history and culture through the past 75 years or so, I recommend this novel.
Interesting part of history especially as it concerns Taiwan. However, difficult to read, very condensed.
The narrative is almost movie-like. Confusing at the start but will eventually make sense
An engaging read that relations among Tawain, China, and Japan, and approaches to education and learning. This is also a great read for writers interested in ways to control and condense time.
Few books I've read have been able to capture me, yet move slow and steadily.
