https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/305234.Wicked_Lovely
In fact, Seth is such a wet lump of charcoal that I couldn't take this Goth image as anything other than a pose or this lame book's attempt at distancing itself from the whole dreadful floppy-haired prep situation that's been sniffing around suspiciously in the YA section of late.
That's what this book is like, and especially when Aislinn is around Seth.
I get that Keenan wanted a Summer Queen, and that something happened to his father, and Beira is somehow more powerful, and there was something to do with touching a staff amid lots of faery sex, but really, that's as far as it got.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $3.99: http://amzn.to/2xKCD3QReviewed by: Rabid Reads3.5 starsThe first time I read WICKED LOVELY by Melissa Marr I did not like it. It was too dark. I was too young to catch the deeper connotations that Marr was communicating. If it hadn't been published in that weird in between time when I was pretty current on all the interesting series in my preferred genres (and therefore desperate for reading material), I probably never would've read the second book. But it was, and I
http://amzn.to/2xKCD3QReviewed by: Rabid Reads3.5 starsThe first time I read WICKED LOVELY by Melissa Marr I did not like it.
And it remains my favorite YA series about Fae. Aislinn, like all of her female ancestors, has the Sight.
Not for these characters.Aislinn and Keenan .
For now, at least.Part of my dislike of the main characters (Aislinn and Keenan) is superficial--I don't like their names.
There wasn't anything specific about Aislinn that I that disliked, but there wasn't anything I did particularly like either.
This setting, the WICKED LOVELY world, is so well-established in this first installment that, in hindsight, it's not at all surprising given new main characters, I loved the next book.
It can be summarised like this:KEENAN: [gives Aislinn a choice between two options]AISLINN: [flees]SETH: [waits for Aislinn]KEENAN: [waits for Aislinn]DONIA: [waits for Aislinn]BEIRA: [issues occasional Ursula-like threats]AISLINN:AISLINN:AISLINN: [makes choice]BOOK: [ends]So the entire book revolves around Aislinn, which could have been interesting if Aislinn's interactions showed the slightest spark.
Towards the end, it feels as if other characters start kicking her towards character development because she's not going there by herself.There's also the fact that Seth was a cardboard-prop boyfriend with tattoos.
I liked this book a lot more than I thought I would.
Here's the thing about the writing, I felt like this was a good book.
I liked the concept a lot...
it just felt like it could've used one more polish...
And that colored how I was reading the rest of the book, I wanted her to have to struggle more -- but she didn't, but neither did I?
But if you have a huge history of reading faery books -- this one might not be your favorite.
It seemed as though Marr couldn't sacrifice either of the two worlds for her Aislinn and so gave her both, which in my opinion, gives her nothing.
Life demands sacrifice for true happiness.
But Marr set a beautiful stage, perfect characters with bright promises of illuminating lives.
It was perfectly coordinated, hopeful lives waiting for tough decisions to show their true beauty and strength.
I hope Ms. Marr becomes a great author she has it in her, but she needs to learn, as we all do, that life is lived beyond physical desire, in what we sacrifice for others and ourselves to gain wisdom and love.
So it takes a little bit to capture my attention and to keep it.
That they'll overlook the TERRIBLE editing job and shaky story-telling with sex?Okay, so maybe it worked a little...
I had to keep refocusing, shaking it off and trying to see the book for what it was as opposed to imagining half-naked men with incredible bodies all oiled up and posing...Okay, never mind, back to the point.
Marr must figure that if fails, at least there's lots of pretty to look at.Well, it did fail to be different.
Give it a shot.Maybe if I keep reading books like this, I'll cure my insatiable fascination with sparkly things.
Well guys, for over a year I had a review of this.
I gave this book 1 star, so to say the least, my review was not positive.
But see, I got tired of constantly having to delete all the "troll-screaming" comments, so I ultimately removed the review.The reason I didn't like this book is because it was one of the first YA titles I ever read, and I was really put off by the content.
That's my prerogative.
I know that probably sounds like a revolutionary concept, but whatever.If you are curious about the book, I'll refer you here: http://sites.google.com/site/parental...
They are even gathering outside Seth's place.Aislinn really begins to worry when two faeries, Keenan and Donia, approach her and speak directly to her.
She hears them say things like, "Do you think she's the one?" Aislinn realizes that in order to figure out what they want from her she is going to have to break the rules she's grown up with all her life.Keenan is the Summer King.
Another problem of course is Aislinn doesn't want to be Summer Queen.
5 out of 10 Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Gemma Hayes – Wicked GameFollowed by Ghosts – King, My QueenJulee Cruise – Summer Kisses Winter Tears Genre: urban-fantasy, YAStuff: canonical faery in the real worldFail: urban-partWOW: mythologyPOV: 3rd-person, multiSetting: Hunstdale (fictional city in USA)Love-Geometr
Ревью в моем блоге/This review on my blogLiving A Thousand Lives (please use Chrome/Yandex browser or Android/IOS to see the page; otherwise, spoiler-tags I use to make my post compact may not work)Short-Soundtrack:Gemma Hayes – Wicked GameFollowed by Ghosts – King, My QueenJulee Cruise – Summer Kisses Winter Tears Genre: urban-fantasy, YAStuff: canonical faery in the real worldFail: urban-partWOW: mythologyPOV: 3rd-person, multiSetting: Hunstdale (fictional city in USA)Love-Geometry: strange, 'cause 95% of characters are polygamousQuote-Core: 
There is another risk, one of these Summer Girls could be the queen but she was afraid to test herself and now Keenan would be always cursed, winter would last forever, Summer Court would die and people would do the same.
Aislinn lives in fear every day of attracting the attention of any faerie, only to have it all come crashing down when the Summer King, Keenan, claims her as the next Summer Queen.
I love the idea that he owns his own place, yet has no job.THE ENDING.It really is a huge letdown to read the whole book realy enjoying it only to reach the end knowing that it's all going to end up awfully.The thing is, I loved Donia and Seth.
I loved Keenan and Aislinn.How did it end up?Keenan and Donia, and Seth and Aislinn.WTH?The end.Who wants this book?
So I was expecting to read a nice YA book, but let me tell you...
this book was so good that I read it in 6 hours without stoping.
I loved all the characters and the way everything developed.
I really liked how the author gave a smart solution to every problem.I really enjoyed to read something different from all the books that are out there.
Wicked lovely is a nice, refreshing and original story.
If you like paranormal romance and YA books, you'll love this series.
I'm glad I finally read it.
I would give this book 4.5 stars if I could.
So good.
While the details of the faery customs, dress, language, and history were well-developed, the author failed to make her human characters as compelling.
Besides the relationship between Aislin and her boy-but-just-a-friend Seth, the humans in the story are either boring, do not progress the plot in any way, or are cliched teenagers.
Case in point (and here comes the spoiler) the revelation near the end of the book that Aislin's mother was also courted by Keenan.
Rather, the characters move on to the next bit of action and by the end of the book, that plot point has been completely abandoned.
The story was equal parts intriguing and confusing, so I have mixed feelings about this entire book.
He's been trying to find the girl that will touch the winter staff without being consumed by the Queen's frost and so far he's only failed.
Aislinn is one, Keenan another, Donia who is the last girl who touched the winter staff and got consumed by the frost and now she's partially a ghost, and lastly, Seth, Aislinn's boyfriend of sorts.This book has its pros and cons.
But I'm intrigued enough, by the ending and the twists, that I'm going to be reading the next book in the series and hope for the best.
We very quickly learn that Aislinn is chosen to have a special place in the faery world...Once again a book so popular and trendy and such a favorite of many of my friends, disappointed me.
In fact, her apparent strong knowledge of fae lore and interesting idea of Summer and Winter Courts saved this book from being just a tolerable read.
Neither did I care for long descriptive paragraphs between lines of dialog.
Keenan, who is the "Summer King" of the fairies wants her as his Queen; NEEDS her to be his queen.
But Ash doesn't want that.
She already has a special someone, though Seth seems to be oblivious to her feelings, and Ash works hard to conceal them anyway.
As Keenan refuses to give up, Seth proves to be the only one she can count on, the only one she can trust.This book truly was unbelievably good.
In the parts where she was with Seth, my thoughts were going something like "Oh COME ON, just kiss him!".
How would she choose between becoming a fairy or a life as mortal beside her love interest Seth?The first problem I have with the book is the main character Aislinn, I learn that she is a pretty girl, she has the Sight and had been tiptoeing to avoid attracting attention, pretending she can't see the fairies.
Then, when you read them, do you kick yourself for being so stubborn?On one hand, I'm really happy I waited to read this book, because the third (and final?
This book was AWESOME!!I don't know that I was avoiding it because of what other people were saying, necessarily.
Maybe I thought they were wussy little creatures...
A Midsummer Night's Dream turned me off to them, perhaps?But whatever the reason, I'm glad I got over myself and read this book!
I can't wait to read Ink Exchange and Fragile Eternity!!
The one where Aislinn can see faeries that no one else can see, and they're awful.
But the young Summer King, Keenan (srsly, Keenan), wants her to be his queen, and if things go wrong, they're going to go very wrong.I described this book to someone as "like mediocre fanfiction," and now I'm trying to pin down exactly what that means.
Someday I'll beat you!" And then his companion has to meet up with his mother and do exactly the same thing.I have to admit, I'm curious to know exactly what all the hints amount to -- what she has to say about Faery culture.
Compared with Black's books, I found this one to be badly paced, full of one-dimensional, undeveloped characters and lacking a lot of detail.
Aislinn is rather whiny and unremarkable, with no defining characteristics except for the Sight, so it's hard to see why everyone loves her so much.
The plot moves too slowly at the beginning, and we are forced to read about Aislinn whining about how faeries are evil for over a hundred pages.
The plot was full of holes and the detached, one-dimensional characters made it hard to care about getting through the book.
I read this book for the first time many years ago, and I remember it being one that stood out not only for its striking cover, but for being a YA urban fantasy title with dark imagery in the presentation of the world of the fey.
It may be because I've read more YA urban fantasy titles since this one or buildings of the world of the fey, but I honestly think there were issues with this that didn't translate as well as it could've.
He’s been playing the same game with his evil Winter Queen superbitch mother for 900 years, and he’s seemingly never tried to figure out any loopholes to unbind his Summer King power.
It’s quite horrible how many girls Keenan has gone through in trying to find the one who will be his Summer Queen.
And gets help from Donia, the current Winter Girl--whom I like very much; she's very sympathetic and tries her best to help Aislinn, Seth, and Keenan.
I liked that, in the end, love for Keenan or his love for the girl has nothing to do with who becomes Summer Queen.
But I think the most unusual thing about the whole book was the fact that the main guy was not the main girl's love interest.
If they dont, its usually because its not a romance book.
Although I am sure things will get complicated.And I think readers should be prepared not to fall in love with Keenan.
This book has a great ending and I cannot wait to find out how things turn out for everyone.
Although I still dont know for sure where it fits into the story, it is now clear that it did not happen to Aislinn.
He is determined to make Aislinn his Queen, but Aislinn is tied to her mortal world, mainly the person she loves, Seth.
There are dangers and emotional conflicts that cause the characters in this novel to test their will do to what is right for themselves and the people they hold dear, for some it's the humans in their life, for others it's the summer, winter and high court faeries.I loved this story on so many levels.
A must read if you think you'd enjoy an enchanting journey of the imagination.
This book was captivating, from the beginning I was drawn in and interested to see what would happen next.
Don’t worry if you are unfamiliar with the faery world like I was, Melissa Marr does a great job of introducing the reader to the faeries and we quickly learn that they are nothing like Tinkerbell!
The plot was interesting and kept me guessing up to the final twist near the end of the story that I truly didn’t see coming.
I would recommend this semi-dark young adult read to anyone that enjoyed Twilight or The Hunger Games, and I look forward to reading the rest of the series.
MICHELLE'S REVIEW:RATING : 4 SETH STARS!!This was my first major foray into the world of Faeries.
This series of books is like mind blowing on the Faerie courts and laws .
Wicked Lovely the first book I think is the easiest to read .
They are wonderful books but perservere as the laws are detailed sometimes..but once you get the hang of it you are good to go.
*fans oneself* You can really 'see' these books as you read them.
I did as he has his court to look after and he needs to do what he needs to do...which of course makes the book exciting.
Another buddy read with the lovely half fae half human,Helena! I hope this one is as good as the others! ❤
I remember LOVING this book when I first read it and so I decided to reread it so I could finish out the series (I've read all but the final book).
Wow...now as awesome as I remember.
Still a fast fluffy read but there is little to no substance of plot and certainly not in character development, either.
This is a 2 star read at best bumped to a 3 for nostalgic purposes.
I will be finishing out the series because I'm a glutton for punishment and I want to be able to say I finished it...but yikes.
Oh well, it is still a fun mindless read.
3.5 Need some Summer StarsEhhh...it was OK but not a book which captivated me. I enjoyed the different twist to the fantasy but found it very hard to connect with the characters. I think after this one...I'm gonna quit while I'm ahead. So, I'm not saying that I hated or disliked the book, it's just one that won't stay in my memories for very long.
Lovely covers in this series. Just fantastic. It surprised me by being unpredictable and that is uncommon in YA. Overall the story is an interesting and fun read.
I was intrigued by this book for three things: the pretty cover, the nice title, and the fact that the back cover features a plug from Tamora Pierce.
I decided to read it.It's about this chick named Aislinn (kooky name, huh?) who can see fairies (actually, the book spells it "faery" - I guess Marr couldn't decide between fairy and faerie and so went middle of the road).
So, she knows when Keenan, who is, as it turns out, no common faery but instead the king of the Summer Court of faeries, starts tailing her.
As I'm sure you can imagine, romance ensues, blah blah blah.This book is pretty good fluff.
