https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9503.Saving_Fish_from_Drowning
Saving Fish from Drowning was outside of her voice and style, and unlike her previous novels, it took me forever to get into it.
In addition the book was much longer than it need to be w/ details that were not pertinent to the conclusion.Usually when I've finished a Tan book, I feel enlightened, or with a new perspective, or just happy I read the book.
Unfortunately with this book, I feel the author left too much of herself behind in the process.Still a loyal fan, I will absolutely be reading her next book.
Oh Good Lord!
What an awful waste of time!This was a torture to finish, but I was really holding out for an ending that would make the misery worth while.
And they may have had one, but it HAD to be more interesting than the telling we got from Amy. Even the sexual escapades were boring.
How were these people so boring AND so gullible?
Why not exploit that one a bit more.I guess I should have known - another story told from the perspective of a ghost.
I guess the dead but not crossed over just aren't very good story tellers.
There is an anonymous quote in the preface that reads, "A pious man explained to his followers: "It is evil to take lives and noble to save them.
Each day I pledge to save a hundred lives.
"I am saving you from drowning." Soon enough, the fishes grow calm and lie still.
With the money I receive, I buy more nets so I can save more fishes."This book has been jostling around with me for the past year.
I just couldn't settle down long enough to make my way into it.
If I didn't have to facilitate a book group about this novel, I would not have read past the first 50 pages.
I've heard great things about Amy Tan, and haven't read her other stuff -- and won't discount it based on this -- but lordy, I have no incentive to read her work now.This novel is a claustrophobe's nightmare -- just when you think she can't introduce any more characters to an already overcrowded plot, she throws in another dozen or so.
It seems after the first group read it they would have warned others away...I'd get into the plot, but why bother?
I think I have read all of Amy Tan's books, but this one was completely different.
I could never figure out if this was based on a real case, or whether it was based on a psychic's remembrances, or was just Amy sort of putting her readers on.
It just doesn't fit smoothly into any one category, not even the category of Amy Tan novels.
I would love to get other readers' "take" on it.
This is a novel for someone who wants to read something very different than what he or she usually reads.
At one point the narrator discusses the difficulty of writing a book about the troubled world of Burma that will actually appeal to readers.
Just as tourists hear about the atrocities committed by the military government and then forget about them in an isolated resort, readers hear horrible tales of murder and torture, only to have them buried in silly scenes like the visit to the temple in China, where the tourists conduct themselves in with shockingly bad behavior.
The book was narrated by a ghost who had insight into everyone's thoughts and feelings.
I read this book a long time ago and should have written this review a long time ago.
What a wonder this book is!
Having read all of Amy Tan’s books, I expected good writing, serious cultural and gender themes, and disturbing realities.
What I did not expect was this book.
Think Robin Williams relaxed.Every bit of this book is entertaining.
It took me awhile to read this novel. Each paragraph holds thoughtful meanings and insight that aren't quickly digested but gradually enjoyed. Human nature, what we are about, what I do and why I do what I do, are some things stirred up. I love all of Amy Tan's writing. Her history of China is right there with Buck's The Good Earth. I would ask one thing of her. To keep writing novels.
I can see some of the reviewers points, but overall, I really enjoyed this novel.This is definitely a departure from Tan's normal novels about the relationships between Chinese-born mothers and their Chinese-American daughters.
Although she does a wonderful job capturing the dynamics of those relationships, while weaving in fascinating glimpses of Chinese history, I'm glad to see her trying something new.A few of the characters in this novel are Chinese, but the majority are not.
Thrown into the mix is a glimpse of life in the military regime of Myanmar, formerly known as Burma.
She was an actual character but having died before the story began gave her an omniscience that allowed the reader to see past the first person perspective.The book was slow to start and there were so many characters that any time to get to know and bond with them never happened.
That could have been remedied by allowing the reader more time to get to know the characters better.Really, with all that being said, I think that's the extent of my review.
So if you like Tan's writing but want something different from her usual style you got it here.

This was a book club selection that I was NOT going to read.
I read The Joy Luck Club a few years back & didn't care for it at all, so reading another Amy Tan book was not on the top of my list.
But the back of Saving Fish had a review by Isabelle Allende, whom I adore.
My favorite books transport me to places I will likely never see & this book did just that.
It seemed like a VH1 Where Are They Now episode.
Other than that, I'm an Amy Tan convert, thanks to Isabelle Allende.
That isn't to say, of course, that Tan's book is simple - it's a complex adventure tale full of myth and cultural insight - but Amy Tan's writing style makes a story as full of complexity as this one much, much easier to read and enjoy.
I think this is the message that Tan wants the reader to understand - even on a journey of mythical proportions in the deepest jungles, sometimes the greatest surprise in life is found in the simple things.
Because the tribe is convinced they are going to be saved by getting a hit reality show on American TV."Saving Fish From Drowning" is not the usual Amy Tan fare.
I say almost, because the comedy style is very dry and sarcastic (and sometimes downright black and bleak) while the errors could have easily been avoided to the point where you want to roll your eyes.The biggest fault of this story comes with the narration style.
Nor do I feel that this story falls into the Western Savior trap with the 12 Americans "saving" the oppressed Karen tribe.
This story, narrated by the ghost of Bibi Chen (the group’s recently deceased tour guide), has some elements of magical realism.
Tan deftly explores the ways in which American tourists make “innocent” mistakes that have significant consequences.
I got the point long before the tourists did, and I think a good editor might have helped Tan trim about 100 pages.
A few of her attempts at Australian or Swiss/German or British accents went rather awry, but, again, it was as if Bibi Chen were telling the story and trying to add color to the tale so I forgave Tan.
Bibi Chen was not an imagined person - she was an actual person that Amy Tan knew.
The writings are further authenticated because the subject matter was the recent disappearance of 11 american tourists in Burma.
The book is Amy Tan's embellished, fictional account of Bibi's ghost writings.
The 11 characters are a varied, interesting, imperfect bunch, and Tan's elaborate description of their humorous, often frightening encounters is engaging.
The 12th equally interesting character is Tan's description of their surroundings in China and Myanmar (Burma) - the landscape, the people, the superstitions, and the traditions.I am currently at the turning point in the book and can't wait to finish...
Description: San Francisco art patron Bibi Chen has planned a journey of the senses along the farmed Burma Road for eleven lucky friends.
But after her mysterious death, Bibi watches aghast from her ghostly perch as the travelers veer off her itinerary and embark on a trail paved with cultural gaffes and tribal curses, Buddhist illusions and romantic desires.
On Christmas morning, the tourists cruise across a misty lake and disappear.With picaresque characters and mesmerizing imagery, Saving Fish from Drowning gives us a voice as idiosyncratic, sharp, and affectionate as the mothers of the Joy Luck Club, Bibi is the observant eye of human nature- the witness of good intentions and bad outcomes, of desperate souls and those who wish to save themselves.
The book marks a departure for the author, as it's the first of her novels that doesn't largely focus on Chinese and Chinese-American characters and mother-daughter themes.Instead, it tells the story of a group of 12 Americans of different ages, genders and ethnicities on a trip in China and Myanmar (formerly known as Burma), who end up trapped in the jungle village of a persecuted minority tribe.A touch of the familiar Tan comes through in the voice of the deceased narrator, the dynamic Bibi Chen, a San Francisco art maven whose mysterious murder begins the tale.
i felt like the ending dragged on a bit long (you know how most of the time, when you’re done reading a book , you sit back and wonder, “and then what?
well, you don’t have to wonder in this book.
it was much less satisfying than i’d ever thought it might be.) but during the book itself, i thought she did a marvelous job of portraying very real characters traveling in a very foreign country.
she also did an excellent job of portraying how easily serious miscommunication can happen when the language barrier exists (especially when there are basic differences in the ways societies operate).
I've read several reviews of this book and people seem to either love it or hate it I loved itThe characters are full and believable - I feel as if I have known them all for yearsMs. Tan chooses as her storyteller the ghost of Bibi Chen,a wealthy art patron, who has just met an untimely and violent death.
Bibi had already organized an art and culture tour for a number of her longtime friends that had planned to follow the fabled Burma Road from Lijiang in southwestern China (claimed by some to be the inspiration for Shangri-La) across the closed border into Myanmar.
Despite Bibi's death, her friends decide to follow her itinerary with a new (and unbeknown to them, a completely inexperienced guide, Bennie.
She dies right before she is suppose to be a tour guide for a trip to Burma (or Myanmar as it is now known).
The group goes anyway.
They start in China, but because of their lack of respect for the land and natural exhibits, they are “kicked out” and told they are not welcome.
The tribe thinks the young boy is actually a spirit that has returned to save them.
The group does get away at the end.
As a result, I won’t ever read another one of her books even if they are suppose to be much better than this one.
A bit outside Tan's usual scope. Not bad, but not great, either.
She seems fascinated by the clash of cultures in the hinterlands of Asia.
We follow a group of American travelers from China to Burma where they fall into a cultural abyss that takes them back a century in time.
Initially the Americans are concerned with their creature comforts - what is for dinner, will the accommodations be adequate.
Military and civilian authorities of Burma have committed murderous acts that reverberate through its victims lives for generations, and introduce the tourists to a new reality.
Our narrator has an omniscient view of the entire sphere of activity and a lively sense of humor.
Ik heb al veel gelezen van Amy Tan, maar dit boek is anders dan de vorige. Enerzijds een persiflage op georganiseerde groepsreizen naar exotische landen, anderzijds een spannend verhaal van een groep Amerikanen die ontvoerd worden in Myanmar door een onderdrukte stam, omdat zij geloven dat een van de toeristen hun verlossende god is. Uiteindelijk blijkt hun bijgeloof niet zo anders dan de goedgelovigheid van de toeristen. Fijn om te lezen, grappig, spitsvondig... Tegelijkertijd geeft het boek een goed beeld van Myanmar onder de dictatuur, maar ook van de lokale gebruiken in een toch weinig gekend land.
Já li este livro há algum tempo, mas gostei muito!
This was a very enjoyable read for me! I liked how she used humour to write about injustice, and there was quite a bit of exploration of how how different people can have vastly different perspectives on the same events.
Amy Tan was further improved in theÂ worth reading standing stakes though, when I found a couple of her books on Helen’s shelves.The length of time it took me to read Saving Fish From Drowning in no way reflects on how much I enjoyed it.
Perhaps that is a good sentence to sum up the book in fact; it teeters around the edges of exploring the characters, including the life of the narrator, dips its toe into the politics of the regimes in Burma and China, paddles along the edges of rebel causes and the unreality that perhaps builds up in the minds of the desperate and sprinkles flavoursome herbs of understanding about those countries too.That’s not a bad thing.
I finished reading it this morning, though, and even though I'm not exactly sure how I feel about it yet, I think that it's going to be one of those ones that sticks with me.
I've been a huge fan of Amy Tan for years, and I've read everything she's ever written.
I feel uncomfortable comparing this book to her other ones, because it's such a huge departure.
I think a lot of what I loved about this book wasn't necessarily its own merits, but the fact that Amy is noticeably trying something completely different than what she did before, and trying to grow as a writer.
Ignoring any preconceived expectations I had from reading other books by Amy Tan, I simply expected originality in the tale and a demonstration of her understanding of humanity.
I feel she pulled it off, and it was a hard task to convey the scope of the story.
I love her wry pokes at the parochialism of many Americans with regard to their place in the world and their knowledge of current affairs and geography.
My goodness Amy set herself a hefty task in spinning such a yarn as this, and although I struggled to be hooked, I am glad I stuck it out, for I felt this to be a very original book.
While a definite-and somewhat welcome- departure from Amy Tan's usual fare and themes, this novel, though ambitious in its social and political commentary and large cast of characters, does not deliver either the thoughtfulness or memorability of her other work.
All in all though, it's an interesting work, sometimes verging on magical realism, that is narrated by a ghost and details both the human rights abuses in Burma and the brokenness- and eventual healing- of eleven unique characters after they are, unknown to themselves, kidnapped by well meaning extremists in the jungle.
