https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2927723-the-trail-of-conflict
This is a marriage of convenience romance arranged between the fathers of Geraldine (Jerry) Glamorgan and Stephen Courtlandt.
With this marriage Glamorgan gets his daughter married to someone of the upper echelons of society and Courtlandt saves his family from bankruptcy.
Steve and Jerry are loyal family members and agree to the "merger".Needless to say, the marriage is not smooth sailing.
And it doesn't help that there's an OW and OM here to make for even more misunderstandings between the H and h.)When Steve's rancher uncle dies and leaves everything to Steve on the condition that Steve and Jerry live at the ranch for one year and use no Glamorgan money during that time, Steve balks but is convinced to agree by Jerry.
I am 29 now, but have been reading and re-reading these books since I was a teenager (like my mom).
In this book, Jerry Glamorgan (short for Geraldine) marries Stephen Courtlandt because Jerry's father wants his daughter to marry into a family with history and he owns all the debt of Steve's family.
Soon after this Steve's uncle dies and in his will he leaves his ranch to Steve and Jerry on the condition that they both move there for 1 year and Jerry gives up her father's money.
This is the first book by Emilie Baker Loring that I picked up, I am glad I did, I enjoyed it. It is a marriage of convenience story, with some ranch life and bad guys drama thrown in for good measure. I will be reading more by EBL for sure.
The Trail of Conflict by Emily LoringMarriage of convenience: his hand for her money.
Steve Cortland and Gerry LaMorgan must live on the ranch for at least a year using only Steve's money but conflicts arise.If the one year goes by Cortland will win back all his estate holdings mortgages, paid in full.
If Steve refuses the offer everything will be foreclosed upon.She takes up riding the countryside and does call on a local woman that's been there a whole year with no company.Steve worries when she leaves the ranch as there are many other men and they don't want to find out why they are around.Love detailed descriptions of nature, sky colors and life on the ranch.Problem is she's walked into an ambush and with some help from others it's not going to turn out well...
This is the first Emilie Loring book I’ve read, and I was pretty unimpressed.
The story doesn’t flow well at all.
It’s choppy and hard to follow.
The hero and heroine are hard to sympathize with.
I didn’t really care for either of them.
Some of the side characters are more interesting.I have to give her kudos though.
And though that sounds like a disaster in the making, she made it work.I would be willing to give more of her books a try, hoping that the choppy writing style is not the norm.
I'm an Emilie Loring collector, and enjoy reading her books, but this wasn't one of my favorites. It was still entertaining, and I appreciated the morals, but the writing wasn't very clean. The mystery was hard to follow and I found myself constantly wondering what was going on. Also the craving for a title is not something we understand much anymore these days...But it was still Emilie Loring, and I like a quick, clean, sweet, happy ending romance every now and then, and that's what you get with her works.

Re-read this book while I was laid up with a sprained ankle. When I was growing up, my grandmother was always handing me books to read from her library. I think she had every Emile Loring title, and I read most of them. It was a quick read and about what I remembered. Though, I have to say they accents she gave the Chinese and Japanese characters was cringe-worthy. I had to keep reminding myself it was written in 1922.One more thing, isn't her name glorious? Geraldine (Jerry) Glamorgan. What a fantastic example of the epitome of the Roaring Twenties.
Emilio Loring has been my very favorite author since my mom introduced me to her books when I was 12 years oldEmilio baker loring has been my favorite author since my mother introduced me to her books when I was 12 years old and I am still reading them at 72 years old. I have an extensive library in my home, which contains all of her books. I enjoy rereading them. My only complaint is that this is the only one that is available on kindle.
Cheesy but fun. Starring Stephen Courtlandt and Geraldine Glamorgan in a 1920s thriller - will they stop the cattle rustlers?! Will they realize that their marriage of convenience is actually a love match?! Duh duh duh...
I've read this for the 2nd time.It's a great story without a lot of unreasonable game playing on the rode to love. The intrigue of the robbery plot was also good. The many colorful characters involved, and the reunion of war buddies, made this a page turner.
This isn't my favorite Emily Loring book. It is just a little dry and boring. Also, I got a little confused with all of the mystery. Her books are all such fast reads that you might as well read them all, though.
I went back to a book I read when I was 18 to see whether I would enjoy it all these years later. I was pleasantly surprised to find it well-written and I enjoyed it.
a gentle, old-fashioned romance, with literary quotes and references to classical music - no vulgarity, no profanity, no lurid sex - very refreshing as a change of pace.
This book is as good today as it was 30-35 years ago when I read it the first time!! Emilie Loring tells a great story!
I just couldn't do it. The death of Uncle Nick was too brutal. :P The only interesting character in this entire book, really?!?
Good but depressing.
I started reading Emile Loring books when I picked up a paperback from a rack in a hotel lobby (for 50 cents) while on my sister's & my yearly vacation to visit my father.
Hooked!
I went on to purchase and read every Emilie Loring romance written and available in paperback, not knowing, until Goodreads, that she had died before I was even born.
I loved these books, but read them all when I was between about 13-14 and perhaps 18 years old - I had favorites and lesser favorites, of course, but I no longer remember which was which.
Originally published in 1922, it is indeed an old-fashioned love story. Fairly predictable, (Forced to marry in an arranged marriage, can they learn to love each other?) but still an interesting look into life in the 1920's just after the WW1. Especially in reference to marriage and divorce and the dire predictions about how it would affect society that have certainly come to pass. Be aware, that terms for foreigners now deemed 'politically incorrect' are used throughout the book.
This book is what romance novels looked in the 1920s. You’ll find no “good parts” here beyond the limited passionate kiss. The men are alpha; the women are a mix of spunk and traditional femininity. Per usual in Emilie Loring, the enjoyment level will be marred by occasional racist stereotypes and xenophobia. If you can overlook that, Trail of Conflict, along with her other works are entertaining, especially if you’re looking at them for their historical interest.
