https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129503.The_Origins_and_History_of_Consciousness
As was commonly believed when Jung and Neumann were being educated, "ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny." This book reverses that equation as an exposition of pscho-phylogeny recapitulating psycho-ontogeny. In other words, Neumann takes Jung's individuation schema, then assembles exemplary myths, lots of them, which are interpreted in terms of the development of ego consciousness in the species. However dubious, the project was ambitious, the result impressive. Few of Jung's followers had the breadth and depth of analytical psychology's founder. Neumann was a rare exception.
Freud and Jung had little knowledge of the mechanisms of neuroanatomy (although Freud did study what was known at the turn of the 20th century).
What star wars geek or star trek fan isn't but at the end of the day I enjoy both Freud and Jung more as literary or cultural figures than scientists.
When I feel I want to get in touch with a more artistic look at the psyche I pick Freud or Jung or one of their acolytes.
Good fun and inspiring but hardly science.
Fun stuff.
The book is split into two parts, the first being an explanation of psychological development as portrayed in myth, and the second part being a psychological evaluation of the stages involved.
Overall I'd say this is not an easy book to read and requires a sustained effort and some background knowledge of Jung is helpful, but the rewards for reading it far outweigh the effort and I'd choose this book every time over the more modern neuroscience and consciousness literature that tend to explain mechanical workings, at the expense of the explanation of the theory as it is experienced in the first person.
Painful.I read this book as it is part of the standard required reading of anyone seriously interested in consciousness.
An historical piece only, unfortunately, at this point.
Neumann gives a theory of his own regarding the development of consciousness somewhat in the " ontogeny reflects phylogeny" genre.
Alas, his time periods understanding of the Paleolithic and Neolithic cultures was rudimentary.Neumann is an apologist for Jung ( as if he needed one), indeed, much of the book reads like a thesis he intended Jung to adjudicate.
He writes in a time without the benefits of a of cognitive neuroscience .
Joseph Campbell owes a great deal to Erich Neumann, apparently. Though it can be quite dense at times, the overall thesis that our collective myths tell the story of growth and development of the individual consciousness is compelling. One of the few books I can say has fundamentally altered my perspective in a major way.
This is one of the most thought provoking books I have ever read. All of Erich Neumann's works are well written. They are not so much entertaining as they allow the reader the freedom of thoughtful meditative expression beyond what was thought possible.
Later I tried to explain this book to my friend and started with "you know how every story has an orphan, or at least fatherless child, who has to go fight some evil..." Basically, as you read books like this, you start to see these archetypal stories everywhere.The other thing that struck me was that this is a journey we all have to go through in our lives to become fully realized and mature persons.
When I think of my faith as a Christian, I'd say in some ways a book like is challenging as it is easy to just see Jesus as another example of the hero putting the world back together.
Erich Neumann, the most prominent student of Jung and a highly-influential analytical psychologist and philosopher in his own right, applied recapitulation theory to the realm of the psyche, conceiving the stages of an individual's psychic development as a particular manifestation of humanity's historical development of consciousness.
With this opposition comes the first inklings of ego-consciousness, as the primordial masculine is always associated with the conscious mind, while the feminine, at first understood as the great devouring mother, represents the unconscious.
The dragon fight can also take the form of a ritual "killing" of the mother and the father, as these archetypes are initially understood as manifestations of the Ouroboros concept.
An absolutely delightful book, and a true masterpiece of Jungian psychology.
Neumann brilliantly captures the stages in the evolution of consciousness expressed mythology, reflecting the basic archetypes.
It's based on a fundamental triad, with the creation myth, the hero myth, and the transformation myth.
While many archetypes are found across many cultures, many of his core examples are grounded in either Mesopotamian or Egyptian stories.
There were also several examples that seemed a gigantic leap of logic and reasoning and makes me skeptical of many of his claims.
Nevertheless, it is truly a historical book of great value for anyone interested in Jungian archetypes.
...and a half. Lots of eyebrow raising, but I found myself thinking about the core concepts daily and applying them to almost everything.
Maybe I'm just slow, but I have probably read the entire thing twice over and there's still parts where I think I missed the point.The other drawback of this book is that Neuman's theory, while compelling, seems to reach beyond what he's willing to back up with evidence or deeper exposition.
Taken at face value things seem to make sense, and I'm now much more interested in mythological and anthropological topics discussed (mostly in the first section), I just wish certain concepts were explored further.All that being said, the book is fantastic.
An excellent overview of the Origins of Consciousness in a Jungian perspective from one of his students.
The hero's journey is clearly mapped out from a psychological perspective and has brought to light some major issues in the mind of modern man.
It also discusses the battles of the formation of ego, the conscience and unconscious struggles, and the impact of archetypes, and the battle with the dragons.
It has opened many new possibilities for me personally as I read mythology and religious literature.
Now moving on to finish Neumann's other book The Great Mother that I had to abandoned to read this text.
Best read that describes the evolution of human or even more simply pure consciousnesses from the dawn of time, until now and where it is taking us. Must read if you want a jump in your ascension process or Obligatory Apotheosis.
I guess the most interesting thing learned from this book was that it is possible to objectively view the development of consciousness as a kind of evolution. I believe that Neumann made an excellent argument in this very, very difficult to read book.
Outstanding. The clearest explanation of the relationship between the conscious and unconscious I have read. Neumann was one of Jung's most gifted students and I found him at times more profound than his teacher. Highly recommended.
Over 5 years in the reading. . .deep, profound, at times exacerbating, but worth every page.
Grossly speculative and imaginary
this book is incredibly enlightning in the struggle and story of man's quest to be conscious.
Recognizes the role consciousness has played in our evolution, how it emerged in our ancestors and how the unconscious would have reacted side by side. The opposition of conscious and unconscious.
Helpfully, albeit with some inevitable repetitiveness, he leads you through the argument in three distinct phases, offering perspectives from grand mythological processes first; then zooming in on the viewpoint of the individual, with a translation of the mythological material into the interplay of ego consciousness and the teeming unconscious leading up to self-transformation, or, perhaps, to neurosis; then shifting ground to consider briefly the tension between individual and group (or, in modern times, between the atomized individual and the mass).Throughout, Neumann's emphasis is on wholeness.
This is a great book which elaborates on Jung's ideas by showing connections between new perspectives and new roles for individuals in the evolution of civilization.
If you are familiar with Joseph Campbell or Jung or Jordan Peterson's Maps of Meaning, then this will probably not add much to your understanding but it is still worth reading in my opinion because the little it does add is depth and perspective worth having.I see these views as a bridge between naivete and awareness, built one step at a time without the benefit of knowing what the bridge is crossing or what lies on the other side of that crossing.
It just wasn't part of my family history of educational experience.
I did read a book from Carl Jung (Unconscious Self), but this book was more comprehensive and easier to follow.
I particularly liked his approach to look at history from a symbolic literature.
You need to become fully conscious being independent of collective unconsciousness for a personal growth.
We need to become a collective consciousness beings beyond racism, tribalism, and nationalism (paraphrasing).
Regardless, I like his proposition.Overall, it was a great educational experience.
I would like to read even more from Carl Jung after reading this.
Sometimes gets really thick, especially in the second part of the book. Some parts (especially the thick ones) make bold claims, which under thorough examination are based on shaky grounds. Nonetheless, an invigorating and absorbing book, providing a thesis on how the human and collective mind develops and works, which is startlingly predictive in analysing various modern cultural and political phenomena.
Good introduction to archetypal thinking and Jungian psychology. I tried to read a few books by Jung before but was unable to understand the ideas. Neumann walks you through the archetypal stages and the process of individuation and gives a good overview of mythological thinking and action by giving examples from primitive to modern culture.
Densely written and historically interesting, but it was published back in 1949...so its value today may be limited. But if you are looking at the history of analytical psychology it remains a valuable text. Rating: 4 out of 5 Stars.
It is not for the average person. To fully grasp everything in the book you'd have to have a PhD in psychology but didnt stop me! Its good, but couldve been shorter & concise for more general audiences
The most profound book I’ve ever read. An encapsulation of Jungian depth psychology that seems to underlie all the other ideas I’ve ever come across. A framework to think about everything else.
Somewhat boring.... somewhat weird..... somewhat repetitive.... but great.
Xoxo
a true masterpiece
