https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6472451-ash
this was the one i was banking on to be my best "assigned-but-loved-the-whole-time-i-was-reading-it-and-this-is-why-i-am-paying-for-grad-school-discovery." a lesbian retelling of cinderella??
is this a universal truth, or am i letting my undergrad "psychology of fairy tales" class color my thinking here?
i simply do not understand this character's motivations, or what leads her on to her fairy tale ending.
damn curses.so as a fairy tale, it fails me, psychologically.
because we never see the love developing, it just sort of seems unconvincing at the end.
Lesbian retelling of the beloved CINDERELLA fairy tale.
It’s beautifully-written, beautifully-told and so interesting.Although the beginning begs the question, ‘‘Is this really a retelling?’’ meaning that it’s far too similar to the original story, the rest, however, is full of originality.
Actually, the majority of fairy tale heroes and heroines are one-dimensional, because the focus is on the story and message behind it than the characters themselves.That’s why I never expected Ash to be the most three-dimensional of characters.
But it’s a lush story with lush writing and a lovely romance.
It’s one of the things that make Ash relatable to us—because who never ever questioned their sexuality?What a surprising book.
For a book with such a provocative, potentially controversial premise, Ash is dreadfully, painfully dull and lacking in strong emotion and vibrant characters.
The Prince never becomes Ash's viable suitor.On a technical level, the book is written well enough.
In the novel's world, being a lesbian is not forbidden, and the main character never for a moment struggles with her sexual awakening.Is it Ash's choice between the fairy prince and the Royal Huntress then?
If not for its lesbian Cinderella fame, I doubt this novel would have gained any readers at all.
Cinderella is a tired tale. It's been done. It's been redone. It's been re-redone.So, if I'm going to pick up (yet another) retelling, it really has to blow me away. I need to be wowed. My socks must be knocked off.Those socks remained firm. (Not even a twitch.)In this version, Ash (our Cinder) is raised by her (unsurprisingly) evil stepmother and her only joy is rereading fairytales next to the fireplace ashes (hence the name Ash (how clever)).  She would rather be alone in her room than alone
It's been re-redone.So, if I'm going to pick up (yet another) retelling, it really has to blow me away.
He's a member of the fae - and promises to whisk her away to his lands.Soon he's all she can think of.
Then one day, Ash meets Kasia (the Queen's Huntress) and through their friendship (and eventually love) she finds the courage and hope to keep living.
The darker aspects of the tale, the menace of the fairies and the sweet romance between Ash and Kasia...only nothing really clicked for me.
The characters felt flat,  their phrases alternated between wooden and cliche, and the romance was just too predictable.
This is the fairytale I always wanted
I've always thought fairy tales were history books, always revered the Woods, always been reckless in pursuit of adventure, always wanted to fall in love with a girl.
I'm giving it four stars for freshness, four stars for writing, five stars for magic and five stars for speaking to greater truth.
I loved how Malinda -- I can call her that; she was my editor once -- writes about the smell of magic.
And this: "Have you ever wanted to be a princess?" Ash challenged her.
I hope this information this clears many things up for you.The original review:Omg, you guys, did you realize that in this book, Cinderella ends up in a LESBIAN RELATIONSHIP?!
Because it's not like fairy tales involve the most bizarre shit known to man or anything, and even if they do, lesbians are way weirder.
It's not like there are a gazillionty of the usual heteronormative retellings of the story out there for me to enjoy, and besides, I am offended that anyone could even conceive of a fairy tale princess as a lesbian, because it's totally obvious that everything in the world should be catered to ME ME ME and MY desires and experiences!Jeez, gay people.
What starts out as a simple retelling of Cinderella turns into so much more, and the Prince is all but forgotten ...If you know the story of Cinderella then you know most of the beginning of the book, but somewhere near the middle it starts to veer off on its own path.
Throughout the book Ash reads and is told by various people many different fairy tales.
I'm not sure that Ash really figured out the moral; it's almost like she realized a loophole instead.I also felt bad for Sidhean, the Prince, and most of the men in the story as they were basically cast-off into the background.
*3.5/5
Lesbian Cinderella!!!!! This was a great and simple and a lovely twist on a classic fairy tale! Sidhean is a creeper and the hundreds are a great twist. I really really enjoyed this book it does an excellent job melding the feeling of a classic fairytale with a more modern style. And i would love too read more by Malinda Lo.
What a outstanding debut novel!
With such vivid imagery you might think the characterization would suffer, but I think they stood out so intensely because of it.Ash is a retelling, so some of the story shouldn’t come as a surprise, but Lo was able to weave her own unique take into the fabled fairy-tale seamlessly.
The faerie world is explored much more in this re-telling, and of course Ash, herself, prefers the King’s Huntress to the Prince.
Ash is a story that anyone can relate to.Overall an amazing debut, and a beautiful story.
She interweaves fairy tales and traditions of her own into the story and creates a world the reader can immerse himself in.Additionally, Ash is clearly more than a simple retelling; it adds aspects to the original tale and has quite some twists readers probably won't suspect in the beginning.Nevertheless, the – in my opinion - most important aspects, the characters and their relationships, lack depth and I never grew particularly fond of Ash nor did I really understand the motives behind her decisions.
All these aspects made it impossible for me to really connect with Ash, the huntress or the fairy prince.Ash definitely is a great book in terms of writing and setting, but for me it's still the characters that make a story what it is.
DNFI stopped listenig 3 hours and 17minutes in of 7 hours. It was taking too long for anything interesting to happen, I had no more patience to keep listening to a story utterly dull.
Ugh I feel like I deserve a medal for getting through this mindnumbing snoozefest of a book.
First of all, the lesbian aspect of this story was extremely disappointing to me.
There's friendship, sure, but very little confusion from Ash as to her feelings for Kaisa, very little understanding regarding them either.
It just seemed confused, as if it didn't want to be the Cinderella story, but had to include those parts because they were expected.Third, I felt like the fairy/fairy-tale storyline overwhelmed the rest of the story.
Every time he tells her (or hints) a little bit more about Things.
'Things' being fairies and how they interact with humans, and Ash particularly.
Since reading Ash, I am desperately seeking that language, that energy, those woods, the doublespeak that Lo so artfully rendered.
Here, a sample: "Impulsively, she went to the horse and held her hand out; the mare sniffed at her empty palm and then looked at her with gleaming brown eyes that seemed to reproach her for not having an apple to share." This 2nd sentence of Chapter XIII summarizes for me the entirety of the novel as well as the complexity of Malinda Lo's lyrical craft.
Ash, driven by impulse, and communicating with beings not like herself, she still reaches, still forges forward, and insists on movement.
I devoured Ash in between of my Lord of the Rings movie marathon. It’s a Cinderella retelling, but with a twist. It’s a wlw book! I love, love, the quaint vibes of the novel, and the lyrical writing. I wholly appreciate the in depth characterization of abuse, the difference between hero worshipping, and attraction. Verdict: I can't get enough, and Lo needs to write more fantasy books. Review to come.
4.5 stars
(3.5 stars)Malinda Lo combines several highly creative ideas in her debut novel, Ash. We all know the tale of Cinderella, but it's never been told quite like this.
On paper, I love everything about this concept, and I also liked Lo's writing: "She walked this way for a long time, but the light did not change; it seemed to always be morning.
Maybe if Ash were choosing between the Huntress and the prince, or if Sidhean himself were the prince and Ash fled from a fairy ball rather than a human one, or if an eligible princess held a ball to meet potential husbands and found Ash instead, the Cinderella story would fit better.
The old greenwitch Ash's mother apprenticed under warns her father of fairies/elves?
In order to attend some kind of ball and see Kaisa, Ash makes a pact with Sidhean (the elf/fairy guy) but in return she must become his possession in a sense.Blah blah blah, long story short.
To keep her promise, Ash returns to Sidhean, telling him if he truly loved her, he'd let her go but she would stay one day with him to keep her end of the bargain (their 'days' are longer than human days remember).
Since then, I've loved fairy tale retellings, especially of Cinderella - who's my ultimate favourite - and the fact that this has an F/F romance in it just makes it even more amazing.
20 year Maddie definitely loved this one more than 12 year old Maddie would.It felt so magical and beautifully written, with lots of legends and original fairy tales woven in to give you a great sense of the community.
If you like 'The Darkest Part of the Forest' and retellings, I'd definitely recommend this one.(Hopefully next year I'll get round to reading more of my ancient TBR books, because this was really successful!)
This is more terrifying than Y2k.Other reviews I’ve seen claim the problem with this book is the fact that our Cinderella is Bisexual.
When Kaisa arrived, I was expecting a love story to rival that of Bennet and Darcy, but what I got was more along the lines of… well, some other boring couple who lacked passion and chemistry, so much so that I have forgotten them.Perhaps I felt disconnected from Ash’s relationship with Kaisa because she does not enter the story until the second half of the book.
When I feel it, it’s with regret.*There were no bears in this book.
Ash is a retelling of the Cinderella story with added fairies and bisexuality, although the bisexuality is fairly understated.
I didn't, although at least I was cued by some fairly heavy hints that I was supposed toEventually we learn that Ash's mother long ago put a spell on the fairy that would one day cause him to love a human and have his heart broken in the same way he had caused many humans to love him and have their hearts broken.
“Every time you come near me,” he said, “you come closer to the end of everything.”“It does not feel that way,” she said. “It feels like I am coming closer to the beginning.”  The characters felt so flat and dull. I didn't care whatever happens to them. The plot was also predictable and slow, and there were no twists! The world wasn't developed well, I felt lost for the most part of it, but a part of it was because I skipped a lot of pages. Couldn't help it! I didn't buy the romance. I have no
“Every time you come near me,” he said, “you come closer to the end of everything.”“It does not feel that way,” she said.
“It feels like I am coming closer to the beginning.” 
The characters felt so flat and dull.
The world wasn't developed well, I felt lost for the most part of it, but a part of it was because I skipped a lot of pages.
I have no problem with it being a girl-to-girl romance, it's more on I didn't feel the connection.
I didn't feel the "falling" part.
All in all, I'm so disappointed that I didn't like it as much as I hoped I would.
￼Deep down, you know the truth that you're a mood reader and yet you are completely blown apart when you realise you're REALLY a mood reader.Ash, helps me in realising that truth.
I could've read it in a single sitting.
My ass took a long time to read this.
Anyway, let's get into the story.I found my new desire.
I NEED TO MEET A FAIRY.
I wonder how pretty/handsome one fairy could be that you would let him/her touch you and hold your hand.
That too, at a very first meeting.
I would literally run away from the scene before a fairy could reach me.I will wait to meet a fairy though.#pridereadinglist
Find this and other Reviews at InToriLex Actual Rating 2.5  [image error]  This was a book club read, shout out to the Boston Radical Women of Color Book Club. I recently joined this book club and this was my first read with the group. I wanted to like and enjoy this book much more then I did. This is a Cinderella retelling where the protagonist falls for a Huntress and not a Prince. But it is in no way too risque or racy. In fact I expected a lot more from this controversial retelling.  In the
I recently joined this book club and this was my first read with the group.
I wanted to like and enjoy this book much more then I did.
I specifically read this book hoping to imagine non-white characters and explore some lgbqt issues, but everything was too subtle with little explanation in between.
I enjoy re-tellings when they are done well, but this one didn't take advantage of the concept or connect the original storyline in a very unique way.
This wasn't a bad book, if you enjoy a cute fantasy you could find this enjoyable.
This is a BEAUTIFUL book and I liked it a lot!
I adore retellings, but I like it when they're spunky and unique and take the old tales and absolutely twist it.
At least 2/3 of this book was what you'd read in the original fairy tale.
It has a glorious ending that I would rather like to hug.I also appreciated that FINALLY it's a retelling/magical/epic story that has queer characters.
The fact that Ash was queer wasn't the point of the book.
I felt like I was just gliding over the top of a fairy-tale I've read a million times.
I feel like Ash is saying, “Hey, maybe we should all just be kinder to one another because shit sucks and internalized misogyny doesn’t help anyone.” OR AT LEAST THAT’S WHAT I GOT OUT OF IT.
It probably helps that I sort of loved Kaisa, possibly more than I liked Ash?
Maybe Sidhean is just supposed to be some pretty, inscrutable symbol who doesn’t really matter beyond his symbolic significance to Ash. Wait, did Malinda Lo just write a dude the way most dudes write women?Fairytales & World-Building I actually find these two aspects of the story to be simultaneously two of the strongest and weakest elements of the story.
Maybe Lo's writing gets better as the book goes on, but the first chapters drag interminably on, her characters are two dimensional and uninteresting, and the plot is horribly contrived (yes, obviously, it's a fairly tale and the plot is going to go a certain way; but that doesn't mean it has to plod along like it's only moving towards the next plot point because it's supposed to go that way).
In the first fifty pages, when I should have had a fairly accurate idea of what Ash was like (especially for such a slim book), I was left with a vague notion that she was dreamy, quiet, and spineless.
I read this years ago and I can't remember much besides the fact that i was shook abt who she chose at the end
