https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1215867.The_Digging_est_Dog
This is, in my opinion, the best of the non-Seuss Seuss books.
In fact, I would dare to say that it's better than some of the good doctor's books.
The story of a dog, raised in a pet store, who goes crazy at his newfound freedom with his new owner and can't stop digging is utterly charming.
It's a book that can be read aloud by an adult or a beginning reader, without it getting irritating.
The pictures aren't high art, but they are fun and fit the story.
It's one of the world's most perfect picture/early reader books!
Other dogs come along, and it is discovered the boy's new dog can't dig, because he grew up in essentially a cement cell.
So, they work together; the boy trying to teach the dog how to dig.Alas, the boy is sad, for the dog just can't learn, and so night comes.
He digs up the entire town!...and here comes my issue with the book...This is when the little boy threatens to take the dog back to the pet shop (cement cell), because he's doing exactly what the boy wanted him to do!
Next, the other dogs bully him for being different; then Sammy Brown puts the 'being able' to dig condition on his love for the dog; and then turns around and rejects the dog when he does the exact activity that Sammy wanted him to do - to the point that the boy was going to return the dog to the horrible store.
Again, the other dogs bully him for being different, to the point that one dog suggests that Duke (the diggining-est dog) ought to die for digging - again the activity that he was initially rejected for because he could not do it!
"The Digging-est Dog" by Al Perkins is a book about a dog who did not have a home until he met a young boy at the store where he was kept.
The characters include Duke, the dog who was at the store who is lonely and wants a home.
Sam is a kind boy who feels bad for Duke when he is in the shop and decides to take him home.
When he met up with the pack of dogs, they started digging.
He went around town fixing the barber shop, the gardens and even Highway 81.
This is an interesting book. It provides commentary on the sad life of the pet store pet, as well as the adjustment period between a pet and his new owner. The dog in this story wants so much to please, and eventually he and his master get along just fine. A nice book to read aloud with children.
This is the first book I remember reading and loving and rereading over and over. It is probably not the first book I read, but it shines in my memory.
It started so well and I truly thought it would be one of my favorite children’s book, as I was loving the illustrations as well as the story line, until about half way that is.This is a story about a sad dog who lives in a pet store, he’s chained all day and doesn’t leave this concrete and iron cell.
They get along right away until they realize that the dog who’s lived his entire life in a concrete and iron cell does not know how to dig.
We visited my parents' house and my mom read this book to my toddler.
Well, my toddler seemed to love it, and asked for it every day (repeat readings aren't always a sign of adoration, though, sometimes they ask for books to be reread because they feel they've missed something).It's annoying and repetitive.
The dog (SPOILER) can't dig because he was raised in a store.
He is mocked by the other dogs, so he hand his master practice digging.
He's threatened to be taken back to the store because he can't distinguish between where to dig and where not to.
"The Digging-est Dog" is a book written by Al Perkins about a dog, Duke, who is very excited once he learns how to dig.
I think kids would enjoy this book because it is comical, but I don't think it would be very beneficial in a learning environment because it doesn't really teach an idea or have any moral reasoning to it.
I would recommend this book to kids aged 4-7.
I think all children, even those who cannot yet read, will enjoy the humor behind this book as well and the colorful illustrations.
The Digging-est Dog was a childhood favorite of mine and I still love it after reading it again. Duke realized many things in this story that can inspire kids. For example, even when you think you can't do something, keep trying. Also, everyone makes mistakes and it is important to try and fix those mistakes. The digging was not always useful, but Sam found a way to make Duke's digging useful. I love this book.
I did not like this book because I did not like the part when Duke dug up the whole town. I enjoyed this book because I liked the part when Duke undug up the whole town. So he filled up what he dug up. I did not like this book because I do not like to dig.
As a child I read this book so many times, I thought it was such an awesome story! I know now it's a bit out of date - a re-write would be great maybe where the dog is at the pound, is rescued, and kept and loved for ever :)
I like that this is an early Beginner Books book, and follows Dr. Seuss’s rhyming pattern. I like all the dogs and the farm scenes. Some of the artwork suggests dogs can be lifted by their tails. That’s a no-no.
6/1/18 Read with Naomi & Julia.
One of my favorite children's books.
What do you do with a dog that can't dig? What do you do with a dog that won't STOP digging? That's the premise of this whole story and it's a good one.
~Favorite book as a child.~
The dog in this story reminds me of my little dog Stanley. Who loves to dig! Mostly at my comfy chair!
My son and I read this book last night for like the dozenth time.
Depressing AF.
What a great children's book, made in 1967, still relevant today. Found it on the sister park on serendipity...... in Philly..... for kids playing
Wonderful children's book!
Enjoyable verse with active illustrations for beginning readers or any age listeners. The stress pattern changes here and there but it works to keep the story interesting and an older reader thinking about the words.

This book is about a dog named Duke who desperately wanted to get out of the pet shop—off of the “hard floor of stone”.
He knew that a dog couldn’t be a dog in a place like that!
He took Duke back to his farm and made him feel at home.
Sam introduced Duke to other dogs who liked to dig.
The next morning Duke learns to dig, but takes his new gift a little too far.
I also think that the book has a good lesson about not to overdue a new skill—kind of like bragging.
The Digging-est Dog by Al Perkins.It's a great book for children learning to read.
Sammy gets his own dog and names him Duke.
I love how Sammy wants to teach Duke all he knows.
Duke like any other pet with his love for his owner want to please him.
I think these are things that make the book easy for children to relate to.
Just like in the story children can see everyone is good at something you just got to find your talent.I like how words are easy sight words for children to be able to read the story by themselves.
In this story, a young boy adopts a dog.
The dog looked sad and the boy felt bad for him.
He even teaches the dog how to dig.
However, the dog has a problem.
He cannot stop digging.
He digs everything up and the boy gets mad at him for it.
The dog continues to dig through the town and destroy all kinds of things.
He then gets trapped in one of his own holes and his dog friends and boy have to help get him out.
Then the dog fixes all he broke and learns to create boundaries for himself.

A neat Dr. Seuss I can Read It All By Myself Beginner Book.
Duke was a lonely dog in the pet store that had never felt grass or knew how to dig or knew anyone to love.
But a boy comes along and adopts him.
Lets him have all the things he's never had and taught him to be a dog.
So his boy taught him to dig.
He started digging and didn't stop!
Started getting in trouble and soon learnt that there are limitations on what he should do.
My 4 year old granddaughter and I enjoyed reading this book together.
After rereading this twice in the past few days, I recall distinctly why this was my absolute favorite beginning reader book as a child. The touching tale of a pet store dog who finds a home but doesn't know how to "dog," The Digging-est Dog explores what it means to have a family, how it can sometimes be taxing to try to fit in, and why friends are always important. I wish I could read this to a classroom full of young minds.
