https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6765826-you-never-know-with-women
The thing that surprised me the most about this book was not the things that you never know with women (like the fact that they're not the stripper they're pretending to be, but instead a wanted murderer and bank robber who is utterly prepared to kill themselves just so that you won't be able to wriggle out of the new murders that they've committed) but how insanely unlikeable the main character was.
I've never read anything approaching a noir before that has such a unredeamable main character.
Lives off women!
I’ve read a fair bit of crime/noir fiction but am probably still on the steep end of the learning curve as I continue working to discover which authors I like and which are better left alone.This is a stand-alone novel (he does have several series of 3-5 books) and with a definite noir or pulp fiction vibe to it.
But what I really liked about it was the writing style, with Floyd as the first person POV character telling the story in an easy flowing narrative that kept things moving well.
Initial chapters of this book are real page turners and very much interesting. I felt the story going to have an end in the 9th/10th chapter itself out of seventeen chapters with the flow of initial chapters. Yes, we could get most details of the crime scene in initial chapters and few intermediate chapters seems to be bit dragging. Last few chapters get back the speed and the ending was well done.Overall, the book feel like a sine wave with a high initially and intermediate low and back to form in the end.
I'm fond of books set in places the author never visited. This one is set in LA. I don't think Chase had been to America when he wrote this. But he'd read his share of James M Cain and Jim Thompson and seen plenty of noires. He owned some maps of California and a slang dictionary. The result is comical and dreamlike. Characters seem to drive from LA to Abilene in the space of an afternoon. Car trunks are called boots. Etc.
"Women are funny animals, you never know where you are with them, "Alma & Veda a man's best friend is his wife" Floyd Jackson is going to Gas Chamber"
He is sure that the whole “lousy tale” of the artifact, the stripper who walks in her sleep, and the rest of it “was a tissue of lies a half-wit paralytic could have seen through.” He knows he should have told the bunch to go jump in lake and that doing so would save him a lot of grief, but greed gets the better of him and then he sees Veda Rux and, as soon as he sees her, he knows there is going to be trouble.
This review is coming a little late, and it'll be short, and with almost nothing that might persuade someone to pick this up...It's my fourth book by James Hadley Chase- I keep coming back after long periods!It's nowhere near my first book of his, No Orchids For Miss Blandish, but after that book, it's the second one that's left me sad and utterly disappointed...I'm sad because it's obvious to be...I'm disappointed because I'm a fool and can never guess anything else for a change...!I read it while I was on my vacation; apart from the supernatural gore and horror of Tokyo Ghoul, this was the closest to something humane, and poetry!The author writes just as remarkably, with his usual words like "swell", "dough" and statements from our hardboiled character about reality and women...It was worth the time...
Maybe not the best one, you'd bettre not start JHC with that one.
Sir " James Hadley Chase, " was in an entire class of his own.
Women are funny animals, you never know where you are with them, " Alma @ Veda, A man's best friend is his wife.
" Floyd Jackson, a private investigator and first - grade blackmailer is asked to return an expensive and ancient dagger, that had been stolen by a beautiful woman while sleepwalking.
Jackson should have known that there was something wrong with the entire situation, however, he was blind-sided by the beauty of Veda and more money than he had ever imagined, he agreed to the proposition.....
how do l start reading?
No one writes a thriller like James Hadley Chase do. A definite unputdownable!
Typical chase 20 years on after reading it the first time, I still couldn't put it down.
This is not a faithful reprint of the original novel but a bowdlerization. You should boycott this book.
The crux of a crime thriller is to keep the readers guessing till the end and nobody except James Haidley Chase do this better
Unexpected twistsEnjoyable. In Chase's usual style. Reference terms used for women are misogynistic anachronisms, though, and made me cringe a bit.
This book is just like its name, i was very unpleasant at the end of the book
the writing was fair enough and thrills were kept intact. The ending was a bit too depressing, though.
