https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/690926.The_Twilight_Collection
i take no issue with explicit vampire lovin', but i cannot stomach such young impressionable minds spooning up the idiocy of this accident prone mortal girl who can't make it through a day without being rescued by her obsession/saviour/boyfriend...
her life will just be perfect if only she's made immortal and of course oh so devastatingly beautiful.
needless to say, i'm not keen on feeding such garbage to anyone, let alone those who don't have the maturity to see it for what it is- the literary equivalent of a pop-tart laced with cyanide.
Aside from that brief allowance, I’ve got more than a few frowns for this trio of teen angst.The message: If an author employs a thesaurus to the narrative of a high school girl ( I dare not say heroine, because Ms. Swan is surely not one of these), the reader should instinctively accept that said female is responsible and intelligent, which somehow must quantify the desperate tortured obsession she confuses for love.
I’m not much of a romantic - - especially when you’re talking about teen love - - - - I think the fact that Meyers cites Shakespeare and Bronte does her story more harm than good.
I don't think this series is good for young adults because it introduces them to dark things like Vampires and suggests that it's okay (in this series they are friendly and civilized).
But once the intrigue with this subject has been placed in the children's minds, they will probably want to read other vampire books which could be scary and dangerous to their spirits (taking away sensitivity to kindness and love).
And she doesn't become better and better, she simply gives into her feelings and acts like she has no control over them.
She doesn't need him because she loves him.
You're ready to give up everything."Seeing as this was the first vampire book I ever read and was able to enjoy the first three books before they became a phenomenon, it was fun going back to my YA paranormal roots and revisiting this cast for a few days.
~nom.nom.nom~Only my original Edward was so attractive in all of his intense, passionate, protective ways.I don't remember Charlie disabling the battery cables!I forgot Alice's back story!Jessica didn't bother me nearly as much as the first time I met her.Overall, I enjoyed my long overdue re-read of this book.
Horrible writing (seriously, did we have to go through *every step* of Bella's days?) Horrible characterization- (honestly, Bella's "intuition" had to do with how quickly Stephenie wanted to unveil a plot point that the readers could already guess at anyway.) Horrible plotting (case in point- in book one, it took 320 pages for anything of substance to happen.
Bella didn't have any personality save to pine over Edward (and a little over Jacob.) And speaking of Mr. Fire and Mr. Ice (yeah, Stephenie, I'll play into your pun,) despite their topical personality differences, the vampire and the werewolf were really quite similar- moody, manipulative, and just a *wee* bit emotionally- or physically- controlling.
These books are very well written and great for Young Adult readers. I fell in love with the first book, and couldn't wait to get my hands on the next ones. The first in the series is being made into a movie to come out this December, and the author is a Chandler native. Book four in Aug '08.
Instead I read a story that should have ended afar book one with at a bite that never should have been taken back.
The guy who sneaks in your bedroom, encourages you to lie to your parental guardian, and has a problem with his anger, isn't the one who makes stellar marriage material.In Twilight the story is still innocent enough that the problems are easily overlooked until later books hound the characters worst qualities.
These girls who think that the Twilight saga is the best thing ever written when it is the only thing they've ever read.
Sometimes I'm still appalled that the series ended the way it did.I liked Twilight.
True, she gets herself into trouble because she thinks she needs to take action.
But can't Bella have a life outside of Edward?
And a girl (I'm assuming she's young) posted that Bella is in love, and that's how love should be, all about the other person.
Why can't she have a life AND Edward?Bella gets left in the second book.
However, I'm sure that has more to do with the fact she's 17-19 through the books.
I'm hoping Bella does get turned (because why bother with the whole story if she doesn't!?!) AND gets to go to school and find some interests outside of Edward.

When I tell my husband the story is of a girl who falls in love with a vampire and becomes friends with a werewolf it sounds rather corny, but the series is not as you feel the frustrations and agony of the main character, Bella.
The series draws you in as you wonder how Bella will resolve the conflict between her friends, between this world and the supernatural and the love she feels for Edward, her friend Jacob and her family.
The sweet young love is refreshing and something every woman dreams of, so although Bella is in High School it is a series that even adults can enjoy.
I thoroughly enjoyed the books and am glad I took the time to find out more about "that BYU author from Provo." I also read this book after finishing Bram Stoker's Dracula, which made for some interesting vampire comparisons.
Alas, I was disappointed to find numerous errors in the books, something you shouldn't have to encounter even from a small publisher (that made millions just from the first book!).
It was obvious that Meyer and the publisher were more concerned about getting the books out for profit without taking time to consider the quality of the work -- even if the books are targeted at (dumb?) young adults.
God, the entire series was a failure!
It had absolutely no plot, no action, I wouldn't even consider it to have romance, just infatuation.
Also, I think that the main character is so annoying to have three guys in love with her.
Bella is, if anything, undeserving of so many admirers.
Then book four (I know it's not here), that was terrible!!
At the end, you expect some epic battle, but nooooooo the Volturi (or whatever they were called) just have to fall in love with Renesme.
She's a BABY for crying outloud!
On the whole I was very disappointed with this series.
I am mildly annoyed by Stephenie Meyer's writing style, and the main character, Bella, drives me insane.
I don't like her enough to care what happens to her, so reading the books has kind of been a waste of my time.
She doesn't deserve either of her potential love interests and I think she makes too many dumb decisions.
I am mildy intrigued by Meyer's reinvention, if you will, of the vampire/werewolf mythology, but once again, I don't care enough about the characters to want to read more, except that I know I will read the rest of the books in the series, just to see what happens.
I've read or listened to this series at least 5 times in the last year. Stephenie Meyer is my favorite author and the best storyteller!
It irritated me that the main character was in such a hurry to become a vampire, without ever even discussing what it would mean to give up kids, public sunlight, and everyone she knows and loves.
I saw her inserted quotes from Orson Scott Card, and kept reading about "forever love" and "eternal love" and Meyer's old-fashioned vampire against premarital sex finally drove me to read the author's info.
The writing was juvenile and repetitive, the main character was an annoying, fainting damsel in distress, and the love story read more like an obsessive codependent insecure infatuation than actual love.
I was basically forced to read this series by a coworker and friend.
Three days later, I had read all four of them.
Most of the time I had no idea why we were supposed to believe that every guy in her school was in love with her, or why she was supposed to be as fascinating as all the characters around her claimed she was, as I just wanted to smack her.
That's because the Twilight series really is like crack.
It keeps you awake for a few days and you hate yourself the whole time, but you can't help from consuming it mindlessly until all of it is gone.
Lizard: 2⋆.Wombat: 2⋆.Overall: 2⋆.
It sounded like something totally aimed at a teenage girl (which there is nothing wrong with), but then I heard about all these women my age who read the books and were totally absorbed by them.
By the end, I wanted to throw the book across the room.Bella, a teenage girl, moves to Forks, Washington and then falls in love with a vampire.
Throughout the book, Bella talks about how she doesn’t understand why Edward, the vampire, loves her, despite the fact that every.
Edward left and only shows up when Bella seems like she might kill herself due to her clumsiness.
I liked this book series for one reason, the way that Stephanie Meyer used her own version of vampires which just happened to be awesome.
My first problem with this series is the rather retarded love story, this debauchery of literature is hard to slog past while reading this but i succeeded.
I know that the last book has not come out yet, i also think that Stephanie Meyer needs to....ehhhh (can't say that here...suck it up and give us an entire book on how Bella acts when she is a vampire, AND HER POWER BETTER NOT BE THE ABILITY TO NO DRINK BLOOD!!!!
Pretty bad, but I probably would have loved this book when I was twelve.
I probably would have thought it pretty awesome to hold the attention of a possessive, obsessive vampire, especially since I wouldn't be able to do more than flutter my hands helplessly in the midst of exchanging pout bouts.
Even with my awe-inspiring knowledge of Barbie, Ken and 90210, he would still have a century's worth of life experience over me, except for the sex part, as he is The 100 Year-Old Virgin Vampire, which...
A lusty male vampire keeping it inside his pants for a century, in addition to abstaining from human blood??
A girl named Bella moves to a small, rainy town called Forks to live with her father.
She has resigned herself to a miserable time finishing her high school education in the town when she sees the strange but beautiful family of the Cullens.
The main theme of the book is that Bella and Edward have a true love, but it is difficult for them because Edward cannot resist her blood.Many people are pulled to the book because Edward is the "perfect guy." A lot of teenage girls (I was one of them) use the series as a "self-insert." The Twilight series is addicting but overrated.
I read it not knowing the outcome of the books and not having seen the movies.
I'm in my thirties and consider myself well-read, graduating from University with a Major in English.
Useless degree but I love literature!
I'd never considered YA or fantasy, so these books were the introduction for me.
It was a new concept for me, and I fell in love with all of the teen angst and obsession.
No. It did however segue me into these great genres, where I have discovered wonderful stories and other authors.
Definitely worth the read if you don't know the ending.
I have to give this series a four star because I really liked the first two books a lot.
But I really like the whole story where she meets Edward in the first book and falls in love etc.
The second book I really liked too because well, I just like Jacob.
It gave the series a twist it needed I guess.
The author was actually writing a fifth book that was the first book from Edward's point of view.
I guess someone posted it online illegally so now she's not going to be publishing it but she actually put her draft on her website.
The Twilight series is a fun (but shameful) read when you don't feel like thinking too hard.
I only gave them three stars because they are kind of silly, but I really did enjoy reading them.
I couldn't put them down once I started.
The story line sounds ridiculous if you try to explain it to someone.
Aaron asked me what it was about and looked at me like I was nuts.
Basically, it is about a normal girl who falls in love with a vampire (and he with her) and all the drama that ensues including other vampires and werewolves.
I know it sounds dumb, but you should read the books anyway.
I had to read these books as my daughter wanted to read the series. As a GS leader and volunteering with girls from 12-18-I am glad that I read the series. Helps to connect. Not the best writing-easy, light entertaining even comical. Basically a teenage obsessive love story. I do not recommend the the third book for anyone under 17. I read the first two and gave my girl the ok and then read the third after she had. I really regret not reading the third before.
Ah, Twilight. You were much more fun when I was a thirteen year old obsessed with vampires. Isn’t that the way with most of these vampire romance novels, though? Our young selves loved them but as we grow, we realise what a mistake we made for having such an obsession. Yes, not my most shining moment.
these books are so romantic! i love stephanie meyer! she is such an inspiration to young readers such as me. i oh so hope that she will continue on with midnigh sun!(even though if she stopped writing it)
It is the most amazing series ever with a girl who made friends at a school and put her life in danger for a boy who has been a teenager for a while. As well as when her best friend turned into something magical.
Everyone has to read this books at least once. My husband even read them with me. He loved them as much as I did. We are anxious for the movie to come out later this year. Stephanie Meyer really helps you picture what is happening. It is very relaxing to read.
