https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/255128.The_New_Dare_to_Discipline
Interesting but most of this approach is way too strict in my opinion. And listen, you don't often hear me say that. There were some ideas that I agree with or at least can look at them as food for thought. I read this book at the same time I read Cesar Milan's book on training puppies - and I have to say if you compare the two/ or if you followed each approach/ "Dare to Disc." with the kids and Cesar's approach with the dog - I believe the dog would be the one living the better life.
This book did more damage for my family than I care to illuminate.
Especially after reading the excellent parenting books, The Five Love Languages of Children and Personality Plus for Parents, I believe that spanking isn't a good way to discipline, and there are even some children who would be damaged emotionally by it.
The next section covered education, which I believe is primarily the parents' responsibility, so I enjoyed that.
At the end of the book, he gives another good dose of spanking advice, and even seems to give the impression that if you are a good Christian parent, you must spank your children.
So, if you can get past all the spanking propaganda, you can find some good advice in this book.
I agreed with alot of what Dobson says regarding discipline - be consistent, reward good behavior, and make your child understand that you dislike their behavior, not THEM, when you DO discipline them. You're not doing them a favor by allowing them free reign. And THANK HEAVENS for a solid stance on morality too!I also appreciated his thoughts on teachers. Coming from a family of teachers, I've seen firsthand the stressful problems they have to deal with now - not just teaching students, but basically becoming their parents also. Parents can't leave the disciplining to teachers!
This book was my introduction to Dr. Dobson. Read between 1977 and 1979, when our older son was three to five years old. It seemed to radical then; today it must seem antediluvian. But it rings true, and it works. There's no magic formula for anything involving human beings, but it was a helpful starting point; certainly better than much of the claptrap being foisted on parents then and now.
I was very disappointed in this book and felt like Dr. Dobson approached child rearing in a philosphical way instead of a biblical way.
Very seldomnly did he refer to the Bible and God's viewpoint and occassionally referred to "mother nature" and things like that.
There are so many philosophies out there on what is the right way to raise a child and I have prayed for my mind to be clear and free from finding a philosphy that fits our family but rather that God would lead me to wisdom from His Word period and I did not feel like this book was in line with that!
Pretty common-sense advice, such as:-be consistent-don't give in to whining-follow through with consequences the first time a child disobeys instead of naggingetc.I think you would read this same (good) advice in any child-rearing book, but this was presented in a disturbingly Dobsony way.
My very favorite part of the book was when Dobson was listing all the horrible things teens were into in the 70s such as drug usage and vandalism, and he included "civil disobedience" in the list!
Oh, those horrible, undisciplined teens who go to sit-ins and non-violent protests!
Oh, the horror!
: ) Like I said, disturbingly Dobsony.
DTD was written during a time when parents erred on the side of being too lax. homes typically lacked much of any discipline, so dobson did a great service by balancing things out and calling on parents to set limits. i've seen many, however, misuse its message as an excuse for being too harsh and too physical in their discipline, which is why i gave it 2 stars. i still think it is a good book for those who tend to be too lax, however.
I was raised under the principles taught in this book and am so thankful to have an updated edition to study and grow in as I begin to raise my own children.
Through the appropriate use of discipline it is possible to shape your child's understanding of the world around them to give them the tools to properly honor God and their parents as they grow.
I know the corporal punishment is often the main focus of this book but the reinforcement is also a key part.
I highly recommend this book to young parents searching for help on how to raise their children.
The best thing about this book is that it reminds you to be consistent in your parenting.
It isn't all about corporal punishment, though it does advocate that as a method of discipline for the worst of offenses.
Instead, it tells you to tailor the discipline to the offense and the child, and reminds you to make sure to be in tune with your children to make sure that the actions your punishing are actual rebellion and not just tiredness, over-stimulation or even sickness.
The book also advocates positive reinforcement as a method of getting your children to do what you want them to do.

Now that I'm a mom, I find myself leaning on them more and more for practical Christian advice and support.This book talks about why discipline is important - something often overlooked in modern society.
It discussed effective ways to discipline in different ages and situations, including spanking.
There are right and wrong ways to spank, but this knowledge has been lost in a society afraid to openly discuss corporal punishment.
And, I read most of the book in one day.Note: Dobson does discuss corporal punishment point-blank towards the beginning of the book and does not pull any punches.
So I picked this up, knowing that my folks had it around the house, and that I want to do discipline well for my son, and maybe even pick up a few pointers for school.
I'm impressed by the wisdom of Dobson, I think he's appropriately advocating discipline that's thought-out, balanced, not spiteful, not heartless, etc.
The book is a jumble of patched together thoughts, a bit difficult to stick with and draw pointers from.
Both can be found in the book, but not in any systematic fashion.
What, being a good parent isn't a matter of systematic plodding?
Я не критикуватиму цю книгу. Просто скажу, що мені ці методи не підходять, прочитала багато цікавих думок і дещо візьму на замітку. Але це не та книга до якої я повернуся, коли виникнуть проблеми у вихованні.
I loved this book.
Everyone’s makes mistakes and not once did he say he was perfect but I was just enthralled in the book and found it very helpful Ann’s even supported what I already do with my son.
You can’t pick up a book and expect ignorance to make your kids behave better if they have life’s their lives being disobedient/disrespectful or with no boundaries or structure.
Al of us aa parents are doing the best we can but his book is not the reason for other’s downfall.
There is so much knowledge in this book.
In today's world, though, I see articles all the time about another teacher who had an indecent relationship with one or some of the kids, and I have very little faith in the discipline such a group of people can possibly instill in children.
And then, of course, as soon as I've read that part of the book, I start seeing magazine articles all over the place about how discipline so easily becomes abuse, and only teaches kids that violence works, and how "I got spanked, and I turned out all right" shouldn't validate the spanking of children in today's world, because those who turned out all right after being spanked are the few survivors of...
but instead to calmly back up our words with action-based discipline that results in the appropriate level of discomfort to the kids (with the objective of helping them remember -- next time -- to listen and obey).(2) There is a difference between immaturity and disrespect.
When they show disrespect and challenge for our authority, that calls for a completely different kind of discipline that demands their respect and obedience.(3) Dobson believes in rewarding kids as they learn and mature (through praise and through tangible rewards), and he has lots of great ideas for how to do it effectively.
I think many assume this book is all about spanking your children, but it really comes down to knowing when it is appropriate to discipline your child, and that it is absolutely essential.
The things I didn't like about this book – I really wish he had listed more specific examples.
Most parents reaching for this book are probably needing some help with a child of their own ;-), and I wish there had been more ideas listed specifically on how to handle situations where a child is being disrespectful or disobedient.
They would probably believe Dobson's methods or ideas are out of touch and/or just wrong.
You could probably omit the word spanking or things of that nature and still find great benefit from this book.
While he seems to be dismissive of some behavioral psychologists early in the book, his methods of reward and punishment borrow heavily from their tradition.
This book actually provides nice charts and methods to use for chores and other things like that.
I was never good at it as a baby-sitter or Sunday school teacher, and I know that i'm not going to magically acquire the skills to discipline my children just because they happen to enter the world and be mine.
I highly recommend this book - the first half was a super quick read for me, and I feel like I learned so much from it.
However, I still recommend that parents and educators alike read this book and glean from it the wisdom that Dr. Dobson has acquired in his many years as a therapist and parent.
I borrowed this from my Bishops wife and I think I am going to have to buy my own copy so I can read it again and again!
The kid was six months old and he already won at the battle of control!
He also refers to sex education and teen discipline its a little early for me but that is why I want to buy this book to refer back too!
Now to read the first Dare to Discipline!!
Finally, a book that is applicable to toddlers and teenagers!
I'll admit to only having read the first 100 pages or so, and skimming the rest as it's not applicable to me yet.
It's a quick and engaging read, and has lots of good ideas and advice.
Blah blah blah, good book.
While most of what I was looking for from this book was found in only three of the chapters (and those three chapters were fantastic), the rest of the book was worth while as well.Sometimes I feel that in an effort to show why we parents need to focus more on discipline to avoid the common pitfalls of child rearing, often Dr. Dobson's books with their bad statistics scare the poo out of me!
He then follows up the stats with ways to avoid them by disciplining.
But sometimes I think it's just too many scary stats!
It's a bit unbelievable, even to me, that I had not ever read Dare To Discipline by Dr. Dobson.
Even at this point it life, I have gleaned great, practical wisdom and tools from reading this book.
Using one of his recommendations for younger children as my springboard, I created a chart of goals for my young adult daughters, ages 15 and 17.
Three of the goals fall within the realm of daily responsibilities, and three fall within the area of character.
Dr. Dobson's closing chapter to Moms brought tears to my eyes.
I got this book at McKay's for 50 cents, and it was certainly an interesting read!
The ideas presented were not vastly different from the ideas I have read in other discipline books, but the way in which they were presented was a little off-putting.
I felt as if I was listening to a private conversation that Dobson was having with one of his buddies, which--while fine for someone who already understands where he's coming from-- would not be appropriate for an audience who might not understand his perspective.
That being said, it was interesting to hear his commentary on society and trends in discipline/child-rearing.
It was also good to hear a more "old fashioned", extremely realistic perspective.
This book provides a wonderful, solid foundation for parents and educators on the philosophy of discipline.
I agreed with a lot of the thoughts and the writing was riveting and filled with lots of relevant stories and examples.
Unfortunately, as a mother of a toddler, I was hoping for a lot more hands-on help in dealing with everything toddlerhood brings.
This book was much more theoretical than practical, but still a must-read for parents.
The second half of the books focuses on discipline in education and morality (especially in adolescence), two sections that I will be coming back to read as my daughter grows up.
It's a great book overall.
The only vibe is I still can't bring myself to spank my kids.
I tried it once (which wasn't even a real spanking) on my girl and she looked at me with disgust and said 'what's with that?'.
Because it just reminds me too much of how I felt when my mom spanked me when I was a kid.
I pretty much remember the spankings more than any other events during my childhood.
Sadly, that was the only thing I seem to remember best and the 'coldness' I experienced did nothing to my relationshiop with my mom.
My copy is from 1970.
It is in no way politically correct.
That being said, it was interesting to read the perspective of a professional with views so vastly different from what I was taught in my formal education.
I found myself agreeing with a lot more of his views than I had first thought.
I saw the results of "permissive parenting" in my classroom and hope to save my boys from such.
I did not come from a home of permissive parents.
I still can't bring myself to agree with him on the whole spanking issue, but I can't disagree either.
This book was really helpful and I definitely needed some help.
It has a lot of basic principles, but I like the way he organizes them.
I definitely learned a lot about why and how effective discipline is really important for my kids.
I feel a lot more confident in my ability as a mom and how important it is to take on that role, rather than becoming just my kid's friend.
I feel like it gave me some good tools for dealing with my strong willed 2 year old.
Dobson is great because he isn't afraid of saying what he thinks is right, even when it's not popular.
I don't have kids, so I can't relate to the experiences, I just read this for information's sake.
That said, I appreciated that he was trying to come at it from a religious perspective.
I appreciated his views on morality.
I agree that the parent needs to be in charge and there needs to be discipline and consequences.
But, a lot of this book read as "in defense of my opinion" rather than a very helpful guidebook.
And a lot of his suggestions for toddlers were exactly the same things I read in my books about how to train dogs....so.....
But I am glad I read it.
