https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183554.Developing_the_Leader_Within_You
The boss depends on authority; the leader on goodwill iii.
The boss knows how it is done: the leader shows how vi.
People follow you because they want to.
People are coming together to achieve a purpose.
People follow you because of what you have done in the organization.
People Development a.
Develop and empower your people.
Develop your leaders.
People follow you because of what you have done for them.
People follow you because of what you have done for them.
i. Place a priority on developing people ii.
People follow you because of respect and who you are.
Leadership, on the other hand, has to do with casting vision and motivating people."3- "Listed below are some characteristics that must be exhibited with excellence before advancement to the next level is possible: Level I: Position/Rights...Level 2: Permission/Relationship...Level 3; Production/Results..Level 4: People Development/Reproduction....Level 5: Personhood/Respect."4- "Success can be defined as the progressive realization of a predetermined goal.
which enables the right responses from others."11- "My success in developing others will depend on how well I accomplish each of the following: Value of people: This is an issue of my attitude.
I was asked to read this book for work, so I trudged through it, otherwise I would have tossed it by about the halfway point.I feel like this book could be condensed into one chapter of simple tips and advice.
The rest of it reads like a compilation of quotes, excerpts, and illustrations (especially from the Peanuts comic strip, which seems to be John Maxwell’s favorite).
Integrity is what we really are.”“When you love your followers genuinely and correctly, they’ll respect and follow you through many changes”“Human behavior studies show that people do not basically resist change; they resist ‘being changed.’”“Once the facts are clear, the decisions jump out at you” – Peter DruckerSimple plan to help a person change some wrong attitudes:	Say the right words,	Read the right books,	Listen to the right tapes,	Be with the right people,	Do the right things,	Pray the right prayer.“The one who influences others to follow only is a leader with certain limitations.
The one who influences others to lead others is a leader without limitations.”On self-discipline: “The sooner they can take control of their desires and submit them to life’s demands, the more successful they will become.”
In other words, he takes it as a given that the world view under which we all labor is without flaw, whereas the essence of the Christian ethic is that we live in a broken world which we are commissioned to improve upon selflessly, to the fullest extent possible.Maxwell comes from a long line of similar thinkers who insist that anything other than "the power of positive thinking" is an affront to all that is good and noble in this world.
The interviewer said they were planning on implementing some of the information in this book to the school setting to bring about personal growth in their teachers and in the student body as a whole.
Educators need to focus on the whole growth and development of the student, including character development, which is the what teachers should really be concerned with, as much as with the TEKS as each state requires.
As John Maxwell puts it: "The growth and development of people is the highest calling of leadership." I believe that character is the ultimate goal of education and that academics will come as the character is developed.
Great job, John Maxwell!!!
Ничего нового, но зато всё важное про лидерство можно найти сразу в одной книге. Здесь я также нашёл лучшее определение понятия «лидер»."Лидер - это тот человек, который умеет приобретать себе последователей".
• This is actually the third time that I’ve read this particular book, and I’m sure that I will read it again in the future.
This book is a must read for anyone who is in a position to influence people in any way.
In my current job, my focus is to get people to see the value of the product my company sells and to effectively sell it for us.
This book has reminded me of some of the most basic principles of influence that I may have forgotten.
Because of the new context I bring to this reading of
This book is a must read for anyone who is in a position to influence people in any way.
Also, the reminder to recognize the top 20% and spend at least 80% of my time with them is particularly useful in the position I’m in.
I think that more than anything one of the chapters towards the end where I’m challenged to look at the top 5 things I need to work on is most helpful to me.
It is a good reminder not to get overwhelmed, but to take things one at a time.
I thought I would follow my first addition to goodreads (Poisonwood Bible) with a review of the book that is currently making me roll my eyes and scribble snarky comments in the margins.
Unfortunately, and no matter how witty, they rarely support his argument.
In fact, *he* rarely supports his argument and, as one person I know put it, seems incapable of continuing the same argument through even one paragraph.
But because his book is at least stimulating critical discussion at work and helping strengthen an esprit de corps, and because I strive to be a good citizen there, I will resist repeating any more of my marginalia here.
What little original work is in this book, and I assure you it is very little, is elementary at best and naive, feel-good, peddling more of his work at worst. I cannot and would not recommend this to anyone.The only reason I gave it two stars is because he at least used some valuable quotes from other people.
Great book. Loads of practical material worth rereading and writing down. It is easy to read, and, while I know that some people complain that he uses a lot of illustrations and cites comics quite a bit, I think that these provide tangible material to remember and hold on to.
Really enjoyed this book! Great book on leadership. I might get this as an audiobook for annual inspiration.
great, easy read touching on all the key fundamentals of successful leadership. Includes lots of great anecdotes and stories to support the recommendations.
Great! Worked through this as part of a 6 month class. Lots of steadfast basics but also some great unexpected points.
A powerful book about how to become an efficient, a true leader. A must-read book!
This was a tough one for me to get through.
It's essentially 200 pages of business clichés, parables and anecdotes, peppered with helpful and useful information and heavy doses of straight-up common sense.There's some interesting workbook-style things to do, graphs, charts, and pretty poems.
Hence, I added a star because I'd still recommend it, but, don't expect anything eye-opening or life-changing at the end.
An excellent guide for self development of leadership and your staff.
Maxwell's years of leadership experience have allowed him to distill salient leadership traits and methods for development into this very straight forward and easy to follow manual.
A great read for leaders new and old.
I really appreciate his focus on the people and the leader as a servant to success.
His chapters on self discipline and staff development are the key to becoming a successful leader.
In my opinion this should be considered as one of the standard text books used to mentor new leaders within an organization.
I did, and I was pleased to see that I had incorporated many of the ideas found within, and yet also challenged to continue to work hard at self-leadership.
Some of the quotes that I loved from this book are..."Leadership is influence""He who thinketh he leadeth and hath no one following him is only taking a walk""A leader is great, not because of his or her power, but because of his or her ability to empower others.""The good is the enemy of the best""You will only become what you are becoming right now"
Buen libro para aprender temas de liderazgo. Me gusta de Maxwell toca todos los temas alrededor de lo que se puede encontrar un líder en una organización y propone formas de abordar dichos temas. Sugiere ideas que son prácticas y sus recomendaciones con ejemplos y frases de otras personas, te ayudan a interiorizar las ideas. Me gustó mucho y espero poder ponerlo en práctica.
Though leadership isn't a quality I think I naturally possess, who says it can't be developed? Good stuff. People can't follow someone who doesn't know where they're going, and this book helps clarify what one needs to do in order to manage one's self first before taking on others.
A great read, especially if you are working in an organizational hierarchy, or a small business. Motivational & Inspiring. I took lots of notes while reading. I love Maxwell's use of quotes throughout this book! Love this author, and will definitely read more of his books!
Quick read. Audiobook (on Soundcloud) is just 2.5 hours. This is, surprisingly, a fantastic book. Content not as corny as the title sounds. Every word is like an espresso. Useful in all spheres of life. Will be rereading this monthly.
MaxwellTo the point, direct, with questions that probe, inspire introspection, and cause personal identification of strengths, weaknesses, and character.
Not necessarily a page turner in the beginning, but it picked up a solid head of steam towards the end.The book feels open-ended, and expectedly so, considering the breadth of literature penned by the author.
There is more than a smattering of other’s work/quotes; were it not for the established integrity and success of Maxwell, I’d be more inclined to think of their inclusion as filler vs applied life lessons or manuscripts of personal fondness.
A solid four stars.Daniel H.

No, I'm exaggerating, the book is much more readable than that, but the feeling is the same.By reading the book you will get a lot of information about how the right leader should think, look and act.
During the reading, you can take a pen and write down notes if you are meeting the requirements of a great, average or poor leader.
Maybe, by studying the book as back in the days at the school.I would recommend this book to people who are leading more people, so then they can realize how good leaders they actually are.

There was lots of interesting and motivating things in here.
This one didn't speak to me necessarily.
I think there are SO many self-help books out there on the same topic and they all essentially say the same thing.
So finding one or more that really speak to me is key.
This wasn't one of them.I will note that I was shocked at the amount of spelling and grammatical errors in this book.
Not on every page, but at least 10-15 just that I noted in the book, and I wasn't looking, these were glaring.
May be one reason why this book wan't for me.
A good book with lots of hints and tips for developing yourself as a leader.
However it was very focused on being part of an organisation that was based around sales and marketing so you had to relate to your own situation.
It also used a lot of examples/analogies from the USA which do not always translate to the rest of the world especially in relation to sporting events/personalities.
It was generally a sound book and I took some useful tools away from reading it.
There were hundreds of quotes used throughout, so if that is your thing you will love it.
This book is so full of fabulous nuggets for growth!
Unfortunately, I chose to listen to this book on audio.
Audio would be a great option AFTER you have read its pages, used as a refresher.
You will want to read this book first because there is so much information that needs to be seen and highlighted to begin to comprehend it all.
Read this book with multiple pens in hand and possibly a journal if you keep track of useful tips.
As Maxwell goes through the book, he offers up point after point that begs noticing.
I enjoyed reading this motivational & insightful book by John Maxwell! I've applied some of the principles found on the book, such as the "pareto principle" and also ranking my priorities or tasks for my to-do lists in 4 categories: important & urgent, high importance & low urgency, low importance & high urgency...Even though by the end of the book it wasn't as relevant or relatable for me since it was more focused on leading staff teams, training leaders, hiring people for a company, etc.
