https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86036.Myra_Breckinridge
HOLLYWOOD QUEENRaquel Welch in tutto il suo splendore.Che il grande paese, il Nuovo Mondo, avesse perso la sua innocenza, nel 1968, il fatidico anno in cui uscì questo romanzo, era un fatto già emerso, anche noto: ma che l’eroe a stelle e strisce potesse incarnarsi in un transessuale!Il celebre capitolo 29.Gore Vidal si chiamava in effetti Gore di cognome, una famiglia della buonissima società, imparentata coi Kennedy, fedeli al partito democratico fino al midollo.
For the record, Gore Vidal was an intellectual who believed sex was a tool of the weak-minded.
To his credit, Gore Vidal hated everyone equally, because everyone was dumber than him.
I was uncomfortable throughout, but I'm sure that was Vidal's aim.
If you plan on watching the Netflix documentary on Gore Vidal, know that it ruins this book.
They discuss in depth the "twist" at the end without mentioning that it's a twist, so I ended up reading this whole book knowing the secret, which was disappointing.
In summation: Gore Vidal is dead.
I'm sure he's not losing sleep over negative reviews.
I know it's very non-postmodern and anti-New Criticism of me to ask you to consider a book's context when reading it, but I think that's essential here.
But think of 1968, when this was a bona fide bestseller (back when that meant something about the culture at large), mentioned in the same breath as Updike's Couples and Portnoy's Complaint -- two genuinely misogynistic, unequivocally homophobic, and very very very serious works of art forced into dialogue with this completely inappropriate, absurdly fluffy yet penetratingly belligerent sexual romp.
In those moments, the dark spell of Bad Taste becomes irresistible and we are able to burst out laughing in a fancy restaurant, catching the attention of as many people as possible, and spout:"Hey, guys: a nigger, a kike and a wop meet in the changing room of a massage parlor.
It's the story of Myra, the sexy widow of Myron, who comes to Los Angeles to take possession of his mysteriously deceased husband's inheritance: part of the famous Academy run by uncle Buck, a school for wannabe actors, singers, dancers...
The farce is apparent early when we see Myra as alternately a mouthpiece for Vidal and an object for his scorn...
The majority of these ideas are presented in such an overblown, excessive manner, and held at times to be plainly ridiculous, but it also seems apparent that there is genuine bitterness being expressed at the heart of the cynically humorous horror-show.Vidal, through Myra, enacts some terribly sadistic, psychically harmful sex fantasies and has a laugh with it all.
One of 1968's "shocking" bestsellers that is now a bit of a slog. (As Couples is to Updike; interestingly, the longueurs of both novels are attempts at Joycean stream of consciousness.) But Myra's voice is memorable, and that counts for something.
Despite Gore Vidal's obvious pleasure with himself as some kind of subversive, the majority of the characters and storylines are actually fairly shallow & undeveloped.
It appears that the success of the book relies on the reader responding with shock & disgust at the acts described - rather it was the Vidal's glee with his own cleverness & deviance that left me nauseous.
Dennis Altman has clearly never actually read any queer theory.Worth noting, the anti-semitic rants littered through the book are far too close to things Vidal actually said to truly pass as fiction.
Writing does not get better than this, but it's definitely not for everyone. It's sick and twisted, but hilarious and beautifully written. Myra Breckinridge is the most powerful female character in books thanks to the voice given to her by Vidal. I could "listen" to her talk all day.
Many of the references in Myra Breckinridge are dated (and certainly would have been at the time of its publication as well), and yet the themes of the story still ring eerily true today.
In particular, the quest for celebrity in the book calls to mind reality television stars of today.The novel, presented primarily as a series of diary entries, is, on the surface, the story of Myra Breckinridge as she moves to Hollywood to receive her rightful inheritance as the widow of one Myron Breckinridge.
In the TLS of February 23 2018, Daniel Culpan ("a writer based in London") published a wide-ranging retrospective of Gore Vidal as novelist and critic that includes a convincing account of Myra Breckinridge's "comic nihilism": In it Vidal anticipates the sour, slackening coda of the great countercultural dream: "free love" being replaced by pornography; the avant-garde being killed by Warhol's embrace of consumerist Pop Art; [Vidal's] own adored Golden Age Hollywood cannibalized by reality television. For Culpan's full review, see: https://www.the-tls.co.uk/articles/pu...
"Myra Breckinridge" is a classic, brilliant satire of Hollywood. A man, obsessed with bringing down Hollywood, gets a sex change to turn into a gorgeous actress hellbent on destroying mainstream cinema as we know it! Hilarious, really clever.
I was so obsessed by Myra Breckinridge in my 20s that I actually started writing my own diary in her voice.
The sequel, Myron, is just as good.
This is just good old homophobia rearing its ugly head, of course – never mind that he was one of the most entertaining analysts of C20th America, let’s just dismiss him as a camp laugh.
I’d say that his comic novels (particularly the Myra diptych, and Duluth) are his greatest achievement, but come on – Burr?
I wish Myra herself would return to settle a few scores with her ‘art-deco lamp base’.
Along the way, Vidal allows himself to hit (or miss) several satirical targets and explore myriad possibilities of gender roles, sexual identity and power.I was going to give this a very solid three stars and a high recommendation until I reached a couple of bravura passages which tipped the scales upward a solid notch.
Vidal takes on a lot of satirical targets, shotgun-style.I have to like any book, somewhat, that can riff on Parker Tyler.
This starts out as a really funny, satirical look at Hollywood in the throes of the sexual revolution, but it just becomes tedious, pointless and mean-spirited, like pretty much all of Vidal's books, which for some reason I keep reading. Maybe that says something about me.
One of Buckley’s recurring ripostes during these sessions was that Gore Vidal was the writer of “Myra Breckinridge.” I remember this being regarded as a scandalous book when I was a young boy … pornography, in some quarters … that many households had tucked safely away (as they would later tuck away their copies of “The Joy of Sex”).
I was more curious as to why Buckley thought that attributing the book to Vidal was considered a major insult in his mind.Well, it is a very interesting read on multiple levels.First of all, it is a shame that most readers knew the Big Secret before reading the book.
Capítulos breves van desenvolviendo una personalidad perversamente exquisita: Myra Breckinridge: “que no será poseída nunca por ningún hombre”.Soberbiamente, Vidal logra ir tejiendo un conjunto complejo y organizado de quién es Myra, cómo llegó a ser quién es, quién fue, de qué época estamos hablando, al mismo tiempo que da una cátedra de literatura contemporánea: “no empezaré por el principio porque no hay un principio”, “pero dejémonos de metáforas.
Se puede, porque es amena, es entretenida, es mordaz; Myra es un personaje inolvidable, una verdadera mujer con una lengua llena de veneno y furia, una mujer increiblemente segura, y una gran narradora.Nunca había leído nada de Vidal y ahora quiero leerle todo.Es el tipo de novelas que me hace detener la lectura para escribirle al Arturo y recomendársela.
I can't remember anymore if I actually read this book in its entirety or just stood there in the library browsing it at length like some old raincoat-clad pervert.
I've never seen the movie in its entirety either, so it's probably true I haven't actually read this book cover to cover.
I know it's true that any man's death diminishes me, but I'm not sure the world's readers are all that diminished by the loss of Gore Vidal.
Myra Breckinridge, Woman Triumphant, is not your LGBTQ Heroine!
She is a psychosis, trapped between these two extremes, ripping men and women to sexual confetti.
"Myra Breckinridge is a dish, and never forget it, you motherfuckers, as the children say nowadays" (5).
I could go on and on about the wonders, horrors, revulsions, and revelations this book presents about Hollywood, sexuality, racism, and above all, the gender binary, but I would be wasting breath and spewing spoilers left and right.
Let Myra tell you about it in her own steely words.
Let her possess you.
Buy this title from Powell's Books.

I fully intend to walk around saying, "I am Myra Breckenridge whom no man will ever possess." Look, its politics are a bit...outmoded.
Particularly the pit-pat resolution (I won't spoil this one), which seems to reiterate a normative gender system and narrative structure.
The plot is a bit flimsy, or rather, is stretched for quite a long time, when it could easily have been told as a novella.
But these things shouldn't keep you from reading it, because it's also ridiculously fun & offensive, & Myra is a monster at the same time that she's, like, my new role model?
Well, parts of Myra, at any rate.
"Frankly I can think of no pleasure greater than to approach an open face and swiftly say whatever needs to be said to shut it.""Like so many male narcissists, he is, paradoxically, modest: he enjoys revealing himself but only on his own terms.""'Whenever I hear the word 'smegma', I become physically ill.'"
Myra Breckenridge is a transgressive piece of fiction that felt like a Palahniuk work before his artistic tendencies even bloomed. The psychological profile of many of the characters was completely captivating and I'm persuaded that Vidal is alot more edgy than I first thought.. MUCH recommended.
"The novel being dead, there is no point to writing made up stories. Look at the French who will not and the Americans who cannot. Look at me who ought not, if only because I exist entirely outside the usual human experience..."- pg. 2
I knew about this book before I read it. Nevertheless, it was the funniest, craziest thing I ever read. By the fourth page, I realized there was nothing else like it on earth.
"But the best is yet to come, for I mean to prove once and for all to Dr. Montag that it is possible to work out in life *all* one's fantasies, and so become entirely whole."'Myra Breckinridge' makes strange bedfellows of people who may not seem to have much in common other than they don't like Vidal's bizarre piece.
MB was definitely transgressive for its time, yet Myra herself even after her sex change is a force for male power and violence--even when that violence is directed against other men.
Un libro que, si hubiera sido publicado en esta época, sería criticado por la policía de lo políticamente correcto y demás progres, por ser cómicamente homofóbica, antisemítica, machista, superficial y, sobre todo, transfóbica.La protagonista es una transexual desquiciada.
Y aun así, estamos todos claros que Gore Vidal sabía que no era así.Una verdadera sátira, que sería censurada por el nuevo humor «sano e inclusivo» que no da risa.
Parece una erótica dirigida por Tarantino.
En fin, una novela avanzada para su momento, pero tristemente retrógrada para algunos que hoy carecen de sentido del humor.

This book is just a wonderful vibrant attack on the prevailing sexual dichotomy.
It kinda beggars belief that so long after its publication, it's still so confronting, anarchic and wild.
Activists who think that their agitating on Twitter is a worthy undertaking should read this and then crawl away in shame.Some readers may find what happens to poor ole Rusty confronting but should bear in mind that he's a fictional character, nothing more.It's such a pity that the movie has sullied and weakened this book's reputation - it still hasn't been matched, it's Vidal's best and one that you should read immediately!
I can understand why it gained notoriety at the time that it came out; tran-sexual, pan-sexual Myron/Myra Breckenridge comes to Hollywood to claim an inheritance from his/her Uncle while following her own delusions of becoming a sexual ubermensch.While there is no question of Vidal's literary prowess, this book is probably not the best example of his abilities. Myra condemns nearly every aspect of American culture and society, while ignoring her own fascination with the equally shallow golden age of Hollywood of the 1930s and 40s. In all, the story comes off as an exercise in Nihilism.
Myra fue la novela que me abrió el mundo de posibilidades que es la bibliografia de Gore Vidal, y hasta el sol de hoy no me arrepiento de nada. Degenerada, lasciva, mundana e iluminada por la época dorada de Hollywood. Myra busca no solo conquistar al mundo físico, también el mundo sexual que nace en todos nosotros sin importar el genero. Adelantada a su época, la critica social hacia el conservadurismo es el núcleo de esta obra que ya permite vislumbrar lo multifacetico del autor.
