https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31101.Mr_Maybe
This book made me quit my book club.
I just wanted a fun summer read and I loved her book Jemima J, but this was *complete* garbage.
And just when you can't hate them more, an awkward, explicit, and completely unnecessary sex scene is thrown in for good measure.I wish this had been a Choose Your Own Adventure where I could show up in the final scene and shoo the guy away (I won't spoil it and tell you who the guy is, because if after this you still read it, you deserve to suffer).
I want to throw this book away but maybe I'll save it as a birthday gift for someone I really hate.Blech.
It got really bad.Told in the first person, we have Libby Mason who is looking for love in all the wrong places.
Libby is told constantly by her terrible mother that she's not worth a damn until she gets married and married to a man with money.
Libby then ends up meeting her rich man and wonders if he is the one for her.I just can't with this book.
Her mother practically offers herself up to him if he will keep dating Libby.I think in the end I should be happy about follow your heart or something, but wow they all suck.
Firstly I didn't really warm to any of the characters and I couldn't stand the main character Libby; I found her really shallow, unpleasant and materialistic.
I didn't care for any of the characters, especially Nick, the guy who Libby is in love with.
I really didn't like him.
The only character I felt slightly sorry for was Ed, the rich guy who Libby pursues and uses his for money, whilst he genuinely adores her.
I only read it quickly because I dont finish books very often and I wanted to get it over and done with.
This is your average chick literature, with a protagonist whose only goal in mind is to end up with the guy of her dreams.Now, you may be thinking, why the fuck do I like this book?
For starters, I have already breached below my expectations for a book when it comes to chick literature.
So when I read this, I didn't expect depth at all.I cried twice in this book mainly because it borders on something most of us have experienced so many times in life.
I cried with Libby when Nick left her, albeit he genuinely likes her.
Here's the usual dilemma in chick-lit novels: A woman struggles to choose between a wealthy man she has no connection with and a poor man she loves. She chooses the poor man and he ends up already being or quickly becoming wealthy. We're all happy. The end. But what if the woman chooses the poor man and, goodness gracious, he remains poor (but lovable). What happens then? I know, but I'm not telling.
The predictability of the plots and some annoying characters really turned off my interest but still, I continued reading in hope that there might be something that could spark my interest back on.
Nevertheless, nothing really happen other than me getting more and more annoyed with the main character, Libby.
Even though she was just a fictional character, I do not think that it is wise to make a woman looks this daft.So, needless to say, I am very disappointed with this book and will definitely not going to recommend this book to anyone.

I tried to get back to my Rom-Com, chick-lit, Sophie Kinsella style books but I guess I'm way too deep into other genres. This didn't cut it. It was not a hugely disappointing read, just s forgettable, you kind of dread the time you've invested in reading it.
I’ve always enjoyed these books with their pleasant and predictable plots where funny, slightly shallow, girls make messes of their love-lives, fight with their trilling mums, count on their friends, and end up with a grumpy by ardent Mr. Right.
The “heroine” is Libby, a young woman so shallow and so money grubbing that she is ready to walk down the aisle with a man who she finds not only physically repulsive but irritating and unlikeable.
So it looks like I’m in the market for a new kind of fluff.
To Libby Mason, Mr. Right has always meant Mr. Rich.
A twenty seven-year-old publicist, she's barely able to afford her fashionable and fabulous lifestyle and often has to foot the bill for dates with Struggling Writer Nick, a sexy but perpetually strapped-for-cash guy she's dating (no commitments – really).
So when Ed, Britain's wealthiest but stodgiest bachelor, enters the picture, her idea of the fairy tale romance is turned on it's head.I was Libby Mason a few years ago so I think Jane Green needs to send me a big check for copying my life and making it into a great book.
The author is interesting but parts of this book were just painful to read. Ever had the urge to haul off and smack a fictional character? You might here. Also, if you are considering reading this book, you should know that the author is British, and there is some terms that are not common in the US.
Girl after my own heart.Alas the gorgeous Nick, who is an amazing kisser and even hotter in bed, or wherever they are when they do it, tells her from the start he is not ready for a relationship.
A great fun read which I know is always described as a "beach read" but in the beginnings of spring why can't everyone just accept us girls love these easy to read stories any time of year?
It’s difficult to explain, but there is something so familiar, so comfortable, so right about this moment, it suddenly feels like I am exactly where I should be, at exactly the right time, with exactly the right person."I first read Mr. Maybe during my major Brit Lit-love fest of the early-2000s.
The protagonist is an unapologetically real and honest woman who comes to life-changing realizations about herself, there is an excellent cast of secondary characters; there is a man who is not from a fairy tale, but is winning in his own way; and there is laughter.
I had a wonderful time reading it again all these years later.
I read this book during my obsession with British authors period, along with coming off of a break up.
This book is wildly funny and really tells the story of dating during your twenties.
Libby, who has no idea what is important in a relationship, is a loveable heroine.
You are able to identify with both love interests and your heart breaks every time Libby's does.This book is recommended for anyone who needs to remember the importance of growing up and what matters in a relationship.
Libby is a sort of every woman and really becomes identifiable.
She weaves a tapestry of hilarity and love.
Now don't get me wrong - I liked it but the MC just rubbed me the wrong way for most of the book.
Okay, the entire book.Libby is pretty much a self-centered bitch.
I just wish she wasn't who she was the entire book and then maybe I would've liked her - but..
Yeah, I didn't like him either.
Honestly, if the book didn't have Libby or Nick and had some more likable and relatable characters then Mr. Maybe would've gotten a lot more stars and a way better review.I feel like I need a happy book or happy juice to make my day shine a little bit brighter.
Slow intro, had to fight not to put it away and start a new book. It really picks up at the end and I found myself really thinking about what happened with Libby + Nick after I finished the book
The book is so hilarious, toe curling, and even a guy could relate with the whole story.
Second time I've read the book - not exactly intentional.
i grabbed it as a summer book when breezing through the library.
Realized a chapter or two in that I'd read it before.
Woman wants to meet Mr. Right.
Meets Mr. Hot who makes clear he does not want long term relationship.
She immediately meets Mr. Moneybags - one of London's most eligible bachelor's.
Realize Mr. Hot is the right guy.
She dumps Mr. Moneybags and resumes relationship with Mr. Hot.
Easy summer read.
Mr. Moneybags is drawn as such an awful mismatch for her that one knows from the start it will not last.
The cover claims "national best seller." I guess the nation referred to is England. This book seemed to me much like a phonebook with a few vivid recreational-sex scenes thrown in. Well, actually there WAS a sorta plot, albeit a very shallow and predictable one. The characters, whose thought processes would have been more appropriate to 13-year-olds, were supposedly twenty- and thirty-something singles. Actually they were cardboard cutouts.
This book was just what I needed right now. An average chick-lit, not mind-bending or anything of the sort, just a simple, predictable tale of the search for love. I just wish the book had focused more on the interesting relationship than the boring one. The interesting relationship was secondary in this book, and it was frustrating to have to wait for it to re-appear all the time.
Jane Green manages to find perfect balance between funny and relaxing chick-lit and realistic, sometimes bittersweet prose. This book is light without being shallow and sweet without being sugar-coated. Chick-lit for romantic, but intelligent women.
I suprisingly found muyself identify with a lot of situations!!!! it hooked me at all.
¿Verá sus sueños realizados y encontrará en ése hombre lo que ella siempre soñó?A pesar de parecer una trama superficial ( y en cierto modo tiene toques) no deja de ser una obra que lo que hace es tratar el eterno dilema de :¿es mejor amar o ser amado/ a?...cosa que resulta bastante obvia, pero que en las escasas veces que la lógica mente realista de una mujer le juega malas pasadas, es cuando tropieza con un espejismo, como en el caso de Libby, y puede llevarle a la confusión y a cometer un gran error.La narración a lo largo de la novela es divertida, casi cómica muchas veces ( y en momentos en que no debería serlo), sentimental a través de las descripciones mentales de Libby, cotidiana y sobretodo, MUY ACERTADA Y REALISTA AL RETRATAR LAS INCERTIDUMBRES Y TEMORES DE UNA MUJER ADULTA, CON UN BUEN RETRATO DE SUS SENTIMIENTOS DE SOLEDAD TEMPORAL, NECESIDAD DE UN AMOR DEFINITIVO, EXPLICACIÓN DEL PROCESO DE ATRACCIÓN, DE LOS SENTIMIENTOS ENCONTRADOS Y DUDAS ACERCA DE LA CORRECTA ELECCIÓN....porqué cómo ella bien dice, quizá sea mejor una persona encantadora y atenta que otra de la que tú estás enamorada y te acaba decepcionando.
Anyway, Mr. Maybe is somewhat funny and somewhat relatable even if you're an American and not an English Person Making Fun of Americans, and has Mr. Oh So Sexy in it, so worth a read for those who are aware that Jane Green is not out to win some award for The Utmost Literary Work of Art or whatever (that I know of).
It wasn’t.The main character is Libby, who (like most main characters of chick-lit novels) has had trouble with men.
She gets with the guy she loves AND he conveniently gets rich at the end.
Like be smarter, please.And the ending was completely cliche (which I should have expected) but for once I want a character in a chick-lit novel to make the wrong decision.
I wanted her to choose the money over the guy she loves and be unfulfilled.
I wanted her to regret her decision and weep in agony when Nick gets rich and she’s stuck in a loveless marriage.
Setelah hubungan berselang bbrp lama, Nick merasa belum siap melanjutkan hubungan dan akhirnya mereka putus.Bersama Jules, sahabatnya, Libby akhirnya berkenalan dengan seorang akuntan keuangan yg menjadi the hottest man saat itu, Ed Mc Mann.
Tapi di kemudian hari, Jules dan Nick berhasil meyakinkannya, bahwa Ed bukan figur yang dia cari, Ed hanya menjadikan Libby wanita yg dia inginkan, bkn menyukai Libby apa adanya..
Di akhir crita, sperti biasa, Libby balikan lg deh sama Nick :D Libby akhirnya menyadari, bukan pernikahan, atau gaya hidup yg dia inginkan, tapi lebih ke kehidupan personal dan menjalani smuanya dalam zona nyaman, lebih2 setelah kehidupan Jules dan Jamie, suaminya, sempat diwarnai perselingkuhan Jamie..
Jane Green makes me want to move to London, yesterday.
Nick is a hottie with a body and spells t-r-o-u-b-l-e for poor Libby right from the get go.
While she has convinced herself that she just wants a fling the reader knows better as does her bff Jules.
While the blurb makes Libby out to be fairly shallow and materialistic as a reader I didn't get that.
The rollercoaster of a relationship between Libby and Nick feels real as much as her relationship with Ed feels false.
The sex is pretty hot - a little hotter than Green's usual fair or maybe that is just because Nick is so yummy.
Pertama jatuh cinta dengan bukunya Bayi-Bayi Cinta yang cukup menyedot perhatianku dan menjadi the best three chicklit yang aku baca.
Ceritanya sangat simpel dan yang pasti masih dengan tokoh-tokoh wanita mandiri yang sedang mencari cinta.
Pertemuannya dengan Mr. Maybe awalnya hanya ‘main-main’ saja di kala dirinya belum mendapatkan pacar yang tepat.Buku ini relatif sama dengan drama percintaan ala Hollywood yang sering aku tonton.
Sedikit kecewa dengan alur cerita yang sangat biasa karya Jane Green setelah sebelumnya membaca Bayi-Bayi cinta.Tapi jangan kecewa dulu dengan reviewku yang kurang mantap ini.
Aku kasih tau, buku ini cukup menghibur kok dengan sedikit bumbu-bumbu sex yang hanya untuk 17 tahun ke atas ala chicklit pada umumnya.
i never ever reviewed for any book until now.
I created a login just for telling you all how much of a heartache this stupid book gave me.The lead character is so manupulative, selfish, self-centered...god..shes just aweful.
She doesnt think twice before dumping Ed (on the main basis that he doesnt know how to have a good sex, is clingy, spoils her with gifts which she doesnt feel a little bit bad before accepting them) but feels so much when she gets dumped.When a prick like her who is a nobody in a PR company has so much crap attitude that she judges Nick's friends as stupid useless people living on dole, how does she expect a successful workaholic to be sympathetic about her friend (Nick) being on Dole?This is the first and last book i will ever read of this author!!!!
