https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3184556-kalila-and-dimna-1---fables-of-friendship-and-betrayal
Ramsay Wood has taken advantage of this agreeable situation to render the ancient and beloved tales of Dr Bidpai (“Kalila and Dimna”) in a light, informal, contemporary style accessible to young and delightful to all readers.Warnings are built into the stories to remind us not to take them too literally, and the morals are often quite obscure or obliquely rendered.
The beauty of the design, especially the fonts, reflects the sensibilities (rather than being recognizable as in-the-style-of) Arabic art, as might be expected from the publisher, the wonderful Al Saqi bookshop, which is close to one of my favourite cafes here in London...
Wood collects and retells tales centered on friendship, jealousy, betrayal, devotion, and the like in “Kalila and Dimna” streamlining the messages/lessons making it accessible for the reader.
Not only are the fables in “Kalila and Dimna” entertaining and well-written; but they are also deep and educational making the text doubly worth reading.
Therefore, “Kalila and Dimna” reads more like a short novella than simply separate fables.
“Kalila and Dimna” is simply wonderful and recommended for young adult readers on up who enjoy fables with depth which are recanted like a short story.
Much less atomised than the Aesops Fables derivatives I was familiar with, these characters argue and roll their metaphorical eyes at each other, battling for perspective and some kind of way to live life, using story to understand experience, more than as simple metaphor.The stories are very nested: testing modern memories, used to relying on written words, and now omnipresent internet, rather than the discipline of oral-based societal memory making.
For the characters in Kalila and Dimna the fourth wall is more of a window, they exist in a world where all experience is a story, that will be retold and examined as necessary by various audiences.
I used to read Aesop's Fables again and again when I was a kid, but I didn't know that I still love fables now."Kalila and Dimna" has a lot of fables but it's not just an anthology. The characters are storytellers. This is one of my favorite points of this book.All stories were entertaining and fun to read. When I was so busy that I didn't have enough time to read it, I was dying to pick up the book. I would make my younger brother read "Chitchat Turtle and the Geese" if he could understand English... Lol
While these tales do meander on, with some of the creatures stopping their own story to tell another, they always come back to the main point.
Rich in local color and detail, their ethical lessons are easy to swallow and yet have valid points, even applicable to modern-day problems.I found these stories deeply affecting and managed to finish them in a very short time.
In spite of their nature, they don’t come off as puerile or mere stories for children.
As the wise man stated to the king in the end, these stories are medicine and need to work a while on the listener.
Prima de "Le mille e una notte", prima delle favole di Esopo e La Fontaine, c'erano le fiabe di Bidpai.
Le storie sono a matrioska, come ne "Le mille e una notte": il dottor Bidpai, stanco della tirannia del re Dabschelim, si presenta a corte per aprirgli gli occhi, e, dopo qualche settimana in cella, finirà per raccontare al sovrano delle storie che illustrano i principi del buon governo.
Dimna a un certo punto si farà prendere dall'ambizione, e il fratello cercherà di farlo tornare in sé raccontandogli a sua volta delle storie, le quali potrebbero a loro volta contenerne altre...Storie brevi, dalla facile morale, antiche, ma sempre attuali, originali, ma anche famigliari, che trasmettono quel po' di saggezza di cui ogni tanto abbiamo bisogno.
I've read the Arabic version a while ago, but I came across this version and decided to read the introduction by Dorris Lessing and compare the stories to the classic version I've read. The book is definitely fascinating in whatever version or language it is written!
¡INCREÍBLE!Esta hermosa obra, me ha cambiado completamente, incluso el final me ha hecho ver las cosas de una manera que nunca antes había visto.Se lo recomiendo a un público que le guste la filosofía, las fábulas, los cuentos y es capaz de soportar que las novelas tengan un ritmo lento.10/10
I thought Kalila and Dimna was very well written and the fables were entertaining, yet rich in knowledge and abstract policy advising. However, the most fascinating feature of the book was in my opinion how the author narrates stories within stories. One fable takes you into another story, and sometimes that story takes you even deeper into another fable, until they are all told and the reader is drawn back into the original tale.Wood's use of this very interesting literal tool keeps the reader in suspense throughout the book. I cannot wait to read volume 2.
Kalila and Dimna is written in the great tradition of Arabians Nights and all the fables are well thought and give a great lesson about friendship and especially betrayal. This is a great book for middle school or high school and teaches kids what they can expect later in life so they will not get tricked by bad people. The illustrations are meaningful to the stories and I also liked the famous quotes at the edge of the page. Great book and a must read!
Not read many books of fables before so was not sure whether it would be for me - but I found that I really liked it.
It has sparked an interest in me to read more fables -and to reflect on them for their moralistic content and use them as a way of articulating the lessons to be learned when attempting to influence others/situations.
Another reviewer advised against reading this book to children, but I see no problem with this, and think I will let my 7 year old grandson have a go at it.
These tales are told with a silver tongue.We hear many tales told and the morals are what we need sometimes more than anything else.This is the way people have learned all through the ages.Lullabys and stories pass on through generations so that hopefully we listen,process the knowledge and learn.Sometimes the hard way,but at least listen to the advice.Whether kings to peasant to animals, we are all the same when it comes to living as best we can.Told very nicely and the book had a great flow to it.
There are two groups of tales, Kalila and Dimna, and Zirac and Friends, bound together by the first tale of King Dabshelim and Bidpai.
I can see a teacher or librarian using them by having students act out the tales or rewriting them in their own words.
Wood has succeeded in putting the tales into modern English and it certainly would appeal to children as the language is very colorful.
Anyone with a sibling could relate to the two brothers, Kalila and Dimna.
My favorite tales are those of Zirac and Friends.
I obtained this book by winning a giveaway. If you liked the Arabian Nights stories, you might like this. There are some nice b/w illustrations, too. This is a story filled with stories within stories. Often, there are animals instead of people. And always, each story is to illustrate a point, especially as regards a certain King. These are NOT stories for children, nor are they in the style of 'fairy tales'. Perhaps closer to Aesops' fables. In any case, a good read.
This book is absolutely delightful! A literary nesting doll was stories inside stories as much as 3 deep. The style took a little getting used to but it was really refreshing. It's a simple easy read but it is a well developed story with lots of depth and intelligence to it. I hope to get the rest of the series soon!
Kalila and Dimna #1 - The Panchatantra Retold by Ramsay Wood is a more modern telling of classical fables. This stories have stories within stories that are used to educate as well as entertain. It is well written.I received a copy thru a GoodReads Giveaway.
Fantastical stories, beautifully written, wonderful retelling of India's literature brought to other countries and new generations.#goodreadsgiveaways
Won this in a goodreads giveaway. I agree with many of the other reviewers that. these are classic fables told with hidden morals and lessons to contemplate.
The classic book conveyed educative message through the fables that illustrate human attitudes and situations.
Wonderful read
A fascinating read from cover to cover. Ramsay has translated and presented these for us to read and discover worlds and tales of value to the scholar and a joy for all.
Who does not know about the Panchatantra (five tantras or principles or techniques), a renowned collection of moral tales and stories?
Read the book under review and you will actually come to know what I am trying to say.
At the same time, he has not focused his retelling only on this Arabic book but tried to go back to the original tales of the Panchatantra.
The author has researched well and tried to incorporate as much information as possible without making the book a complicated read.
I do not know whether the children of present world read such stories or not.
Won his book as part of the good read giveaways.
The author wrote a personalised message to me and a little postcard which was a lovely touch.The book itself was unlike anything I've ever read before.
Ive never read a book of fables.
This book is a book of fables each interconnected about animals and betrayal.
It is very unique as not only is it told through many fables there is also a random quote on different pages and some illustrations too.
Certainly a very different book to the usual kind of book I would read but still an interesting read all the same
Annoying.I think, to enjoy this, you must first be a lover of fables and morality tales, which I do not claim to be.
I read this book because it was chosen for our Arabic themed book group, and I found it very difficult to get into.
I was endlessly frustrated by the stories within stories structure, whereby, rather than ending a tale, the narrator begins another, and another, sometimes up to five times - before winding back down again.I realise that this is a translation from the original Sanskrit and that it has historical and literary value.
This book contains tales within tales, involving people and animals. The stories are generally very simple and straightforward, but do highlight a myriad of patterns of deceit, envy, love, cooperation, and sometimes redemption. The stories are for the most part simple enough to be read to the young, but contain many lessons for the older. Definitely worth a re-read.
Cerita dalam cerita dalam cerita dalam cerita dalam cerita....Struktur aneh dalam sastra klasik fabel Kalila dan Dimna.Tapi ceritanya menarik, lucu, dan kadang 'buas'. Sebenarnya menceritakan diri kita sendiri sih
Ramsay Wood, il curatore di questa edizione del Kalila e Dimna, ce l'ha messa tutta per avvelenare il testo, ma la linfa che scorre fra le fibre di queste storie, nonostante tutto, resta viva e abbondante.La prefazione di Doris Lessing non ha alcun significato.
I didn't know they were translating these stories!! I heard them from my grandmother when I was little
i like so much the metaphors used on the characters, the morals at every story it deserve the time i spent to read it
J'ai bien aimé le livre! Ça me fait beaucoup penser aux fables que je lisais quand j'étais petite.
