https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20803953-bully
I really liked the idea of the book for two reasons: 1) I wanted to see how the author handled the subject of bullying and 2) I was intrigued by the promise of a bully being turned into someone we could love.
For the former, the book started by using a chapter to give us an example of the way Tate had been bullied for several years by a guy who used to be her best friend but turned on her.
If they weren't sluts, they were bitches or "twits", every woman is an enemy to Tate in this book - even her "best friend" isn't immune.
As a general rule, behavior like his is a result of some sort of extreme hurt but for the life of her, Tate couldn't figure out what she did to wrong him and she was hurting deeply both for their lost friendship and for the pain he was causing in her life.Now, because the story was told entirely from Tate's perspective, it was a while before I got to discover what had made Jared turn into a bully which left me plenty of time to wonder at the possibilities...Everything about him was just so contradictory.
Thank you to EVERYONE who has left reviews and messaged with feedback. Truly. As a new author who had no connections and no network, I cannot tell you how much your support has meant. It has been a wonderful year and a half since Bully's release, and now three books later, we complete the circle. Jared and Tate will continue to finish up the series. Look for Aflame in April 2015!(Note: This is not the cover. Just a teaser pic.) Thank you everyone again!
This story was too Young Adult for my personal tastes.
And while I felt Tate's character was well fleshed out, richly developed and multilayered, the rest of the cast of characters, including Jared, for me at least, seem at times one-dimensional.
Sadly, I was never given enough reasons to fully like Jared's character.
If you enjoy the Young Adult/New Adult genre then you will more than likely LOVE this story.
Considering the characters were in high school, I would classify this book Young Adult.
Definitely a mature Young Adult, as it was fairly steamy.
***Re-read 11/11/16: Was talking about this book the other day with blog-wife Maria and felt like a re-read...***5 HUGE Asshole StarsI REALLY enjoyed this book.
Now, I know bullying is a serious and highly sensitive issue.
So I'm not going to get into any social commentary regarding this books portrayal of bullying and all its evil.
In other words, I was totally absorbed - aka otherwise rendered completely useless in my normal life until I finished this story.
Jared was such a magnetic character.And I loved him.
He was mysterious and alpha and a TOTAL ASSHOLE.
4.5 Crazy good stars!!!!! For her whole high school career, Tate has been bullied. By one person in particular... Jared. Jared is Tate’s neighbor and used to be Tate’s best friend, but now, he isn’t. He is just someone who enjoys making her life hell.   I had loved Jared once, but now I knew, without a doubt, that ‘my Jared’ was gone. The worst part about it? The summer before their freshman year of highschool, Jared went to stay with his dad. When he came home, he was different. He wanted nothi
I LOVE JARED.
Okay, a lot of people loved Jared by the end of the book.
you could tell he and Tate had a love/hate thing going on, and I could tell there was some reason he was acting the way he was.
After Tate starts sticking up for herself, things start to change for her and Jared.
On one hand, this guy was her best friend for years.
Jared still isn’t ready to open up to Tate.
He doesn’t feel like he can tell her why he has been the way he has been all those years.
God, I believe this is the gazillionth time I'm labeling a story as 'cliche' which is making my limited vocabulary feel somewhat cliched- but there's just no other way to put it when all these books turn out to be the same!
Seriously, is it that hard to just stick with Casey or do you find some sort of satisfaction at being ~different~ by not doing that?K.C., being fully aware of Jared's assholish mistreatments towards Tate, doesn't hesitate in pursuing him after falling victim for his perfect looks *cringe* and insists on her best friend to let go of the past and accept him for who he is (in case you didn't know: a manipulative bag of dicks).
5 Stars  I had loved Jared once, but now I knew, without a doubt, that "my Jared" was gone.
God. This book.
I mean, THIS BOOK.
Words fail me to describe just how much I loved this.
I've had this in my kindle for what feels like ages since I got it as a freebie way back in 2013.
I've seen it making the rounds on Goodreads and for some reason I still hadn't read it.
If I can kick my own ass for not reading this sooner, I would, because this book?
This book reminded me about all the reasons why I
This book reminded me about all the reasons why I fell in love with New Adult romance to begin with.
No. I'm talking that all-encompassing feeling, just the right amount of gut-wrenching angst, you hate but love the hero, and you want to high five the heroine kind of read.
Jared will be a hero that every reader will love to hate.
While there were parts I wanted more from, I still can't rate it down for that simply because this book absolutely enthralled me.
This is a book that I recommend to any lovers of New Adult romance.
3,5 STARSYesterday lasts forever.Tomorrow comes never.Until you.Tate and Jared are neighbours and they were best friends...One summer..Jared turned on Tate!He began to bully her..Spreading vicious rumours,humiliating her..Time passed and things get worst..“What was worse than losing you was when you started to hurt me.
They made me uncomfortable in my own home.”Tate comes back for her senior from France..But coming home she's tired of being afraid and being a coward and letting him control her life.She takes her best friend K.C.'s advice and decides it's time to start fighting back!!“Do you know what this is?” I took my middle finger and patted the corner of my eye with it.
____________________________________________“I like storms. Thunder, torrential rain, puddles, wet shoes. When the clouds roll in, I get filled with this giddy expectation. Everything is more beautiful in the rain. Don’t ask me why. But it’s like this whole other realm of opportunity. I used to feel like a superhero, riding my bike over the dangerously slick roads, or maybe an Olympic athlete enduring rough trials to make it to the finish line.”____________________________________________ ♦ Thi
You made me giddy with expectation, just like a symphonic rainstorm.
We’d play all day, only coming home for food and sleep.
You were the person that turned things right again.
It was like the part of me that died with my mom came back when I met you, and I didn’t hurt anymore.
Nothing hurt if I knew I had you.”____________________________________________
♦ This book left crinkles at the corner of eyes like smiling wounds.
The hurt returned, and I felt sick when I saw you hating me.
♦____________________________________________“You were my tempest, my thunder cloud, my tree in the downpour.
“You were my tempest, my thunder cloud, my tree in the downpour. I loved all those things, and I loved you.”  Hi, my name’s Melanie and all I want to read this summer is New Adult Romances. This is my third Penelope Douglas book and, again, I’m so impressed. I loved Bully and it might be my favorite book of hers I’ve read so far. Before I go any further, I just want to point out again for people who follow my reviews mostly for the Fantasy I read: I rate smutty books differently than other boo
I know many of the relationships are toxic and problematic and I completely understand that they wouldn’t be the healthiest and/or most ideal of starts for people in real life, but I love steamy reads and I rate them purely off my enjoyment.
This is one of Penelope Douglas’ earlier books, and I haven’t noticed this in other things I’ve read by her, but there is a lot of judgement going on in this book when it comes to female promiscuity.
Like, it doesn’t matter that these boys are all doing it, but they call out girls for sleeping with different guys a lot and it feels bad.
Tate loved Jared, but was afraid to tell him that, because he was super popular and she wasn't confident enough to share that with him.
You want them to be together, but in the same time you want Tate to kick him in his manly parts and move on.On the first hand, I would of want Tate to fight harder and not to forget easily the way Jared treated her.
But I know, in the end you can forgive and move on when you truly believe that person is sorry.
I didn't managed to completely love Jared, because I am a person who can't forget depending on the damaged made.
★★★★! Bully, a debut by Penelope Douglas. Broken, jaded & sexy high school senior deals with the aftermath of having bullied a girl he can’t forget!   “You were my tempest, my thunder cloud, my tree in the downpour. I loved all those things, and I loved you. But now? You’re a fucking drought. I thought that all the assholes drove German cars, but it turns out that pricks in Mustangs can still leave scars.”   As the title would indicate this story is about bullying. And as irked and disgust
Broken, jaded & sexy high school senior deals with the aftermath of having bullied a girl he can’t forget!
Bully is a boy-likes-girl story, but it does in no way condone bullying, on the contrary.Bully opens up with a Prologue at a party Tatum Brandt, Tate has decided to attend before her departure to study one year abroad.
It is revealed that Tate has been bullied all through high school by her neighbor and former friend Jared Trent.
That combined with Jared having come to the decision to no longer bully makes for a different experience at school.
4 FALLING IN LOVE STARS. "I want to touch you, I want to feel what's mine. What's always been mine." What's it all about?Two former friends Jared Trent and Tate Brandt now find themselves as mortal enemies. After years of being inseparable the duo find themselves in the ultimate love/hate relationship. Tate has suffered for years at the hands of Jared's constant taunting and pranks so after a year away in Europe Tate returns to Shelburne falls high school determined to be stronger. In a standoff
He is handsome with a streak of mean, if you've got a thing for a bad boy with a sad past then Jared will hit the mark for you.Tate is essentially a good girl gone a little astray, throughout the story she  has conflicting behaviours, on one side shes the studious all round high school brain, on the flip side she's the ball buster, a girl who is not afraid to stand up for herself after years of hiding away.What I liked/loved ...The author has created an easy reading style, which makes for a lighthearted reading experience.
I've read stories where rape is glorified, where abuse - physical, mental, emotional - is championed and desired over respect in a relationship, and in the case of Penelope Douglas's "Bully", bullying is seen as something that's desirable despite of a victim's experiences.I'm not going to take away from Douglas's narrative in the fact that it is compulsively readable and that it starts off with a heroine that does stand up for herself in the face of torments that she endures from the people who surround her.
I didn't want light and sweet romance.I needed angst and pain and tears and fights and all kinds of feelings.And I found them all in Bully.  “This is how bullies are made.”  How bullies are made?Is there a reason for their behavior and the pleasure they find in physically and emotionally abusing innocent people?Do they feel a surge of power when they belittle others?I can't say I was a popular girl in school (you see,I was the geek,the perfect student and that didn't exactly make me Miss Congeni
How bullies are made?Is there a reason for their behavior and the pleasure they find in physically and emotionally abusing innocent people?Do they feel a surge of power when they belittle others?I can't say I was a popular girl in school (you see,I was the geek,the perfect student and that didn't exactly make me Miss Congeniality) but the discomfort I sometimes felt was nothing compared to the things Tate went through in Bully.And what I learned while reading this book,was that when bullies see weakness,it makes them even more hungry.When they see tears once,they crave more.Ignoring them or fighting them are the only options to survive.
These are my favorite quotes:“Acting like you don't care is not letting it go.” i just LOVE THE WHOLE CONCEPT.....can't wait to read the next book! :D
ATTENTION ❗ nearly-rape, child-abuse, alcoholism, bullying   “I like storms. Thunder torrential rain, puddles, wet shoes. When the clouds roll in, I get filled with this giddy expectation. Everything is more beautiful in the rain. Don't ask me why. But it’s like this whole other realm of opportunity.”  Story ⭐⭐⭐⭐Tates life is a living hell. Jared, her former best friend, is bullying her and making her school life miserable. But after one year gone she’s not the vulnerable weak girl anymore. Now
Im not really sure if I liked the story or not, but the fact that I read this book in one day should be a great factor.
I love bad boys, don’t get me wrong, I’m a sucker for pained villains, but not the type that treat the girl like shit and tells her “that he doesn’t care if she’s alive or dead”.
Maybe I can’t really relate because my male best friends in my childhood were the nicest and treated me well.
I loved all those things, and I loved you.”  First of all I’m a sucker for the childhood-best-friend-plot.
”You were my tempest, my thunder cloud, my tree in the downpour. I loved all of those things, and I loved you. But now? You’re a fucking drought. I thought that all the assholes drove German cars, but it turns out that pricks in Mustangs can still leave scars.” For 3 years Jared has been making Tate’s life a living hell. He taunts her at every turn, makes up nasty stories about her and threatens any guy that even tries to get close to her. The kicker? Tate and Jared were once the best of friend
For 3 years Jared has been making Tate’s life a living hell.
There’s nothing more entertaining than seeing a formally abused girl turn the tables and knee a jackass, in this case Jared’s best friend, in the balls.
She’s beautiful and smart and at some point I would hope a few brave souls, excluding her one best friend, would question why she was being turned into a social pariah.
And no one seemed to question Jared's relentless pursuit in making her life a living hell.
Gaaaaah... oh dear sweet Jesus, someone pls save me from books with unnecessary and excessive angst.Admittedly, I am not the target demographic and if the author's writing skill hadn't been so darn good, I would have chucked this down to "that book that is loved by everyone else except for me", however, I did enjoy the enemies turned lovers story and I totally get the appeal.But...But....I. Didn't. Like. Tate. She's just so beautiful that all the boys wanted to date her or whatever. 🙄🙄🙄🙄😴😴. Yeah, not for me, thanks.
Holy shite... I L.O.V.E.D. it!!!I mean, I loved it hard.I could not put it down.*the GIF above is representative of my excitement for this 5 star read upon my completion of it at 3am. Who's a sucker for complete alphaholes?Jared is a complete and total alphahole. And, boy, did I  lurve  the big jerk. I can take it. Judge away! I'll just be sitting here blissfully reliving all the yummy feels this book gave me.
❝There was a time when I had all of his attention and loved it. As much as I wanted him to leave me alone, I also liked how he seemed surprised. I liked the way he was looking at me right now. And then I remembered that I hated him.❞ Bully wasn't really that enjoyable. It was filled with too much drama, annoying characters that deserve to be punched in the face, and wasted time. It was enjoyable when Jared changed, but the beginning of it was boring and not interesting. I've never heard of this
Even though there are news ones to be introduced, they're only gonna end up getting together with these recurring characters and it's gonna make me roll my eyes more.To summarize the novel, Bully is about Tate, the full name is actually Tatum, who is basically missing her old best friend and wondering why he hates her so much.
Sure, that was annoying as hell and I hated her for it because she is her best friend for a reason yet she's over her childhood friend instead of comforting her and making her feel better, but Tate had no reason to tell her about her lies and how stupid it is for her to not realize that Jared is using her.
4.5★★★★Stars Genre: YA-Contemporary Romance Type: Standalone Book 1 of Fall Away SeriesPOV: First Person – Female     “You were my tempest, my thunder cloud, my tree in the downpour. I loved all those things, and I loved you. But now? You’re a fucking drought. I thought that all the assholes drove German cars, but it turns out that pricks in Mustangs can still leave scars.”   Tatum "Tate" Brandt has been bullied by one person in particular her entire high school years.  She was easily intimidat
"Thanks to Jared, my high school experience had been one long succession of rumors, pranks, tears, and disappointments."
Jared Trent was the popular boy in high school.
Something dramatic happened to him when he was fourteen years old and I am a sucker for damaged boys I desperately wanted to know more.
I have wanted to read this book for such a very long time.
"His eyes were like the cover of a book- giving you hints but not the whole story.
And I wanted to know the story."
The tension buildup between Tate and Jared was intense I loved every second of it.
This is how bullies are made This one was all over my feeds a few months ago but I think I had been burned by jumping in and reading a FIVE star book that turned out to be only OK for me.
So I decided to wait a while before starting this one.
Was it good?
Yes, it was.
I am now 48 = when I started it I sort of said, Maura, do you really want to be reading books about kids who are younger than your son and THIRTY YEARS younger than you???
This is how bullies are made
This one was all over my feeds a few months ago but I think I had been burned by jumping in and reading a FIVE star book that turned out to be only OK for me.
I am now 48 = when I started it I sort of said, Maura, do you really want to be reading books about kids who are younger than your son and THIRTY YEARS younger than you???
I had to suspend the disbelief a bit for this book as I really don’t think Jared would have turned so drastically if he really, deep down, liked Tate.
- The characters, Tate and Jared.
Again, not saying I agree with it but he was 14 or 15 when these changes occurred and by the time he was 18, he just fell into the pattern of making her life miserable.Bullying is such a sensitive topic right now, so I will let each reader judge for themselves but it's safe to say there was no physical bullying involved or anything like that.
I did feel that Jared redeemed himself at the end, and what made his actions a little easier to understand was the fact that he was never a school bully per se.
- Loved that monologue that Tate delivered in front of the class with Jared listening.
When the book begins, they're both 16, and Jared has spent two years bullying Tate.
It was like Jared said a few mean things to her and she stood there confused, then just shrugged and said, "Well, whatever" and accepted the new situation.
If one of my friends started dating a guy who'd bullied me for three years and basically told me I just had to deal with it....yeah.Last but not least, I am sick to death of the way female sexuality is being portrayed in books like this.
➳Sometimes I am in the mood for some Penelope Douglas in my life, even if I have read this book a million times over and over, it never gets old for me... ➳Follow Me On:Blog ♕ Instagram ♕ Facebook ♕ Twitter
Find me on Instagram & Twitter!  ❝Yesterday lasts forever.Tomorrow comes never.Until you.❞  As some of you may remember, my experience with my first Penelope Douglas book was disastrous. I absolutely despised Corrupt and I almost promised to never to pick up a book by Penelope Douglas ever again if Corrupt was any indication of what her other books were about. But everyone kept telling me to go for Bully because it seemed to be everyone's favorite.After putting it off for about a year, I fin
I already had the mindset that if the male character was bullying the main character to the extreme and we're later on forced to believe in their romance, then I was going to DNF this book right away.
I was expecting the absolute worst form of bullying but it wasn't taken too far and I actually appreciate that.Basically, the thing that made this book for me was Tate, our main character.
Yes, he was an asshole but I warmed up to him, which doesn't happen often anymore when it comes to romance books.Overall, Bully really exceeded my expectations.
This is how bullies are made.  Squeeeeeee!!! Freakin' awesome!I absolutely love love loved this book. This is the definition of a hate-to-love story and it totally rocked. I could not put it down. I was really craving a book that would make me stop everything I was supposed to be doing and devour every word... and that's exactly what Bully did!I'd heard the hype about this book and seen lots of my book buddies giving it great reviews and five stars, so I knew I had to give a shot asap. And I'm
and that's exactly what Bully did!I'd heard the hype about this book and seen lots of my book buddies giving it great reviews and five stars, so I knew I had to give a shot asap.
But then one summer, everything changed and Jared started hating on Tate.
It's no excuse and certainly, bullying cannot be condoned in any capacity, but it's an eye opening thought.The sexual tension in this book just absolutely rolled off of the pages.
So, clearly, I really loved this book.
This is how bullies are made.  With a love for cars, racing and rainy days, Tate and Jared were inseparable. They were the perfect picture of friendship. And when Jared comes back from a summer with his father Tate expects everything to be like it was.She was wrong.Her sweet best friend is now gone and in place is a cruel version of him. A bully. And his target? Her. Fortunately she gets the chance to study in France her junior year, the only problem is that in a year, she’ll have to come bac
And when Jared comes back from a summer with his father Tate expects everything to be like it was.She was wrong.Her sweet best friend is now gone and in place is a cruel version of him.
Bullying is a huge problem and as much as you like to chant ‘sticks and stones may break my bones but names will never hurt me’, words do hurt.
It’s easy to write a perfect, sweet character that’s getting bullied and has never said anything bad about anybody.
Bully was an easy to read, gripping story about love, redemption and friendship.I’m definitely looking forward to book 2!
