https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19668.Without_Remorse
5.0 Stars. Absolutely superb novel focusing on the enigmatic John Clark who is one of best, if not the best, spy novel characters ever. This is one of my favorite Tom Clancy novels despite being a much "smaller" scale story. Highly Recommended!!!!
4 stars.🇺🇸🤙
First gripe: There were FAR too many side plots, which I know where there in some attempt to round out the narrative, to show how things happen, but it just got distracting.
Second gripe: What the hell was Clancy thinking when he started calling people by different names?
Sometimes a character is referred to by his first name, sometimes by his last, sometimes by his title.
It's irritating as hell to have a character introduced and then have to trace him back because in one pages you've got two or even three names for the same person.
This book is good for three reasons.
One, it's not a Jack Ryan story.
It tells us how John Clark came into being, who he is and what he is, and the plot actually happens roughly 15-20 years before the main series.Two, Vietnam, so it's low tech and gritty Ramboism.Three, Tom Clancy normally wrote Puritan Republican-voting cardboard emotions for his characters with the full knowledge that they would be portrayed in the cinema, so it must look good.
However, Without Remorse is a book so deeply drenched in character building that it swallowed me up with sympathy, empathy, and then a deep personal need to see Mr. Clark succeed in finding revenge and yes "justice" for the many wrongs that had been done to him and his.
A man with hard-earned military skills, Kelly/Clark moves, no sweeps, through this story and leaves us with a sense of nobility as he deals with some of the most revolting segments of our society.
The beginning was slow and mildly interesting. The end is well-done and elevates the rating. 5 of 10 stars
(There's action, shooting and explosions, but not mindlessly).The story at a basic level is one of revenge, a man (John Kelly) who has previously lost his wife meets a young lady (Pam), it turns out Pam has been the victim of abuse, John Kelly falls in love with Pam and helping her recover and in doing so opens his heart for the first time since the death of his wife and is crushed when Pam is then murdered by her past abusers.
This is our first meeting with John Clark...if you follow Clansy's novels that tells you the back ground on this one.This novel is quite a bit more violent than some of Clancy's other works (that's saying something I know) but that will hold true for the Clark centered novels in the series.You get fast moving adventure with slightly less of the political twists you get when the books are about "Jack". This is an intense read.
Another 'prequel' in the series (there were to be even more). This one went way back to tell us where John Clark comes from. Long and not so engaging. And John Clarke is not a sympathetic character. Did not care much for this one, but of course worse were to come...
Ce livre est a recommandé au fan d'Octobre Rouge et du Cardinal du Kremlin , il présente la vie d'un second rôle John Clark , ex SEAL devenu tueur pour la CIA ...il n'y a pas de concessions , c 'est violent , mais justifié.5/5
Executive Summary: I found this book good at times, and tedious at others. It rounded out to be a so-so thriller overall.Audiobook: Much like the other Clancy books he's narrated, Michael Prichard does a fine job, but nothing spectacular. He speaks clearly and with good volume. He doesn't add anything extra to the story nor does he detract from it. Audio is a decent option here. Full Review This book is largely split into two parts: Military/CIA thriller, and domestic vigilante action crime dram
Executive Summary: I found this book good at times, and tedious at others.
It rounded out to be a so-so thriller overall.Audiobook: Much like the other Clancy books he's narrated, Michael Prichard does a fine job, but nothing spectacular.
I guess it's important to explaining how John Kelly became John Clark, but if anything it made me less interested in his origin story.The parts of this book I enjoyed most were the parts where John was acting as John Clark.
The planning and execution of a dangerous and daring mission where his expertise is the make or break point for success or failure.
Started with audio and then found that I could not tell when scene and character changed. I pulled a hard copy off the to-read shelf and had a great experience. I remember the time frame of the story and understand the military, the drug situation as presented.I recommend this to people on both ends of political spectrum....Nixon is president after the LBJ admins. complete cockup in South East Asia totally destroyed the political power of centrists and conservative Democrats.
One of the worst Clancy's books I've ever read. Boring, too much description, too many unnecessary drama... Yes, I know it's about the "making" of the legendary John Clark, but I still cannot enjoy it.
Quickly, Kelly finds a doctor and his wife that nurse Pam off the drugs and get her cleaned up and presentable and all looks to be hunky dory for our guy Kelly and his new love, Pam. Mind you, Kelly is also 6 months removed from his pregnant wife Tisha having been killed in an auto accident.
Kelly at this point has nothing but revenge on his mind and gets to work, going on a mass killing spree in the city, ridding the streets of money, drugs, and drug dealers.
That is where the book really takes off.***Spoiler Alert***The good...-Kelly is a very likable character.
-The love story between Kelly and Pam is very sweet.
-The way that Pam dies.
-The cross story about the POW's and how they were off the books was interesting, but I think it could have been done quicker.
Kelly needed the out at the end, but I don't think the story needed that much detail to make it happen.-In the end, Henry got it too quick.
Looking forward to reading the next one, although I think Kelly becomes a side character from here on in.
51/100 Zweieinhalb Sterne hätten für diesen allzu umfangreich geratenen Racheporno gereicht, den TC später nachgeliefert hat, um die Entstehung eines Helden seines Universums besser zu unterfüttern. So ehrenhaft der Versuch auch sein mag, die Niederlage in Vietnam durch Verrat auf politisch-militärischer Ebene zu erklären, so fehlt es TC und eventuellen Mitarbeitern, am technischen Geschick die Handlungsfäden zu einem stimmigen Ganzen miteinander zu verbinden.Die zahlreichen Handlungsstränge mit zahlreichen Charakteren, die eigentlich nichts als Namen sind, befeuern einander nicht unbedingt, sondern stehen einander lange Zeit eher im Weg, trotzdem ein ganz netter Zeitvertreib für eine Phase der Bettlägrigkeit.

All I need to say Is John Kelly is a BAD ASS!
This was my first Tom Clancy book and won't be the last, I read this book because my friends have talked about how great of a writer Tom Clancy is.
So I took a look at some of his books.
And to be honest at first I did judge his books by their covers, because there was always some sort of gun or weapon on the cover.
Although the book may have been slow at points it was a great book.
But overall this book was exciting and unpredictable!
I strongly recommend this book.
3.5 Stars. A tense, well written thriller by the master of the genre. While the military operation plot was somewhat dragged out and bloated the revenge plotline was one of the most gripping stories of it's type that I've read. There were a number of likeable and memorable (although in some ways similar) characters in the cast and Clark/Kelly was a pretty cool protagonist, especially when he was fucking shit up. Full review to come...
Tom Clancy was the Steven Seagal of writers
This book has motivated me to re-read the entire Ryanverse set of novels (save for "Red Rabbit," which I just finished and was less than impressed with).
I tried 4 or 5 times over the last 15 years to read this book, but never got into it.
Had a hard time going to sleep at reasonable times during this literary endeavor.
My only issues revolved around his quick-to-fall-in-love mentality, and the way every single character would put "like" at the end of sentences (bringing out Clancy's - at the time - lack of familiarity with dialogue)...
This one gets 4 stars (even though its from Tom Clancy) because the main character //ISNT// Jack Ryan (shudder), kills a dude in a deep sead diving pressure chamber. Also because John Kelly (main character) becomes John Clark, who was the mission briefer in all the Rainbow Six games I used to play as a kid. (Wooo Ding Chavez!!) -- yeah he's in the other books, but so is Jack Ryan ='()
This was an excellent novel except for the prolific profanity. I deducted 2 stars for it.
This is the story of John Kelly a man who lost his wife, found a new love, and had her taken away from him by the drug lords who enslaved her and tortured her.
John has a mission: to rid the streets of the drug dealers who take young girls off the streets,turn them into prostitutes, addict them to drugs, then throw them away.
How many people does Kelly kill to rid the streets of drug dealers who mistreat young girls?
This book opens with several sub-plots; Kelly's wife's death; the capture of an airline Colonel in Vietnam; the rapidly growing drug trafficking along the east coast.
These three sub-plots branch off as the events unfold and several players are added, many of which play prominent roles in other books in this series.
Each event leads up to the resolution of the sub-plots and to the man that John Kelly becomes.
he loved too much, cared too much, invested too much in the things and the people who touched his life.
Though it might save his life, to turn away would inevitably poison it.
Clancy departs from Jack Ryan being the center of attention, and focuses on a minor character--but a good one--from his other books, which we have never known well, but would like to.
Clancy takes us on a raw and powerful journey through Mr. Clark's life, with every dramatic twist and turn, showing us what it takes to create such a cold-blooded and effective killer.
At times, this story was such a departure from the other carefully constructed worlds Clancy has created, I would wonder how it would tie back in with the character we know...but he does.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys the writings of early Tom Clancy/Jack Ryan books.
From his times in Vietnam as part of the Third Special Operation Group, to the harrowing tale embodying the main plot of Without Remorse, you just can't help but be taken away with the perfect machismo and badass-ness of the character.
The storyline in itself is excellent, keeping you turning the pages as the action comes hard and fast, packaged with much of Clancy's trademark informative prose.
I would reccomend to all who love a good action / military read.
I read this back when it was first published.
As a Clancy fan I was up to date until Rainbow Six,then the novels started going off in all directions with collaborations and I lost track and although I've bought more of Tom's books I can't stand reading a series out of order.
But if you're a fan and you know where I'm up to you'll understand when I say nigh twenty years after reading it is the most memorable of all his novels.
For its unswerving violence in the name of revenge.
It's as good a stand alone book as Tom ever produced.
This book is the best of Clancy's. It is also a must read for anyone who has read or is planning on reading any of Clancy's other books (at least up through Rainbow-Six, which is as far as I have gotten). Definitely adds a lot of background information that seeps into other characters and storylines in the series.
Tom Clancy is the kind of guy I enjoy reading. One of his fictional heroes, John Patrick Ryan, a National Security Adviser and President of the United States, is one of my biggest fictional inspirations! Tom Clancy (in Without Remorse) has given us a new hero, and his name is John Clark!
