https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/478234.Cartesian_Meditations
A pdf can be found online here: http://www.24grammata.com/wp-content/...**************Some comments and thoughts noted down as I go, primarily as a way of keeping track of them for myself, but also to see what someone who has never studied philosophy but has read a bit of Heidegger, Descartes, Kant etc over the years, can get out of this text. 1. The introduction is surprisingly clear – the importance of Descartes is the stripping back to first principles, the process of doing philosophy being a
Rather there extends through all the particular data of actual and possible self-experience - even though they are not absolutely indubitable in respect of single details - a universal apodictically experienceable structure of the Ego ”.
““the multiplicities of modes of consciousness that belong together synthetically and pertain to any meant object, of no matter what category, can be explored as to their phenomenological types.”“Reason is not an accidental de facto ability, not a title for possible accidental matters of fact, but rather a title for an all-embracing essentially necessary structural form belonging to all transcendental subjectivity.
*page 97 - discussion of kinesthetic sensation and the 'I can' - this would be the starting point for Merleau-Ponty; where Husserl keeps bumping into the body almost accidentally, always from the perspective of the ego, M-P would make the body the explicit theme of his own investigations right from the beginning*Okay, here's where he gets Leibnizian: "the constitution of the world essentially involves a 'harmony' of the monads" (pp 108), but then he quickly goes on to say he's not making anything up: "This is not meant, however, as a 'metaphysical' hypothesizing of monadic harmony, any more than the monads themselves are metaphysical inventions or hypotheses" (ibid).
This mysterious Deutsch-Stil has had an enormous influence on the intellectual life of the West, and now it seems that many contemporary French and American intellectuals (though the English seem particularly resilient to it) self-consciously try to emulate the style of German philosophy in translation.
Trying to understand Heidegger without some idea of Husserl is like trying to understanding Einstein with no familiarity with Newton—the ‘revolutionary’ quality of Heidegger’s thinking makes no sense without this historical context.In my opinion, Husserl was a fantastic philosopher (and I would take this little book before Being and Time any day).
I think he succeeds, or at a minimum, provides the path from the solus ipse of the transcendentally reduced ego to the intersubjective/objective world of the positive sciences and the establishment of an interpretation of the sense-intention of ‘the being of the other.’ But overall, Heidegger’s treatment (forgive me for not having the precise relationship between the Fifth and SuZ ready-to-hand) of these issues in Sein und Zeit is either superior, more thorough-going, more accessible, or simply more familiar to me.For initiating oneself into the world of Husserl’s texts I can quite easily recommend these Cartesian Meditations (an expansion of a pair of lectures delivered at the Sorbonne, and thus introductory) as a first.
from looking at the several reviews by my efriends, from looking at all the phenomenology read, this could be a major, essential, inevitable flaw- i think there is already the apparent difficulty in positing a unified ego, a self, as a cause rather than effect, of evidence given of the world, or rather 'constructed/constructing' the world.
the string is 'i', perhaps in the sense of m-p 'i can', rather than descartes's doubtful 'i' or empiricist 'fictions' of 'i' as somehow preceding, removed, independent from the world we can sense as 'always already there'...this is a much later addition (4 years): after having read husserl's last big book, 'crisis of european sciences and transcendental phenomenology'...
پیش از هوسرل برنتانو به حوزه ی تداخل حوزه های من و دیگری در جواهر یا همون مونادها - البته از نوع لایب نیتسی - پرداخته بود ولی هوسرل در حقیقت حرفای ناواضح برنتانو رو به طور واضح تشریح می کنه ، ضمن اینکه با گذشت زمان مناسبی از تالیف این کتاب ، این حرف ها دیگه فقط یه فلسفیدن محض نیست ، بلکه میتونه آبشخور اندیشه های وحشتناکی بشه که امروز به طور عاجزانه ای دنبال یه تعریف و تفسیر جدید می گرده .
I don't remember this book very well, but it was the basis for a class that I also can't really remember the name of. What I do remember is that this book is about eighty pages or something like that and that it cost sixty something dollars.
Like Heidegger, I can find interest and inspiration in the thought of the Logical Investigations, but with the idealist turn of the Cartesian Meditations I am put off by Husserl and the inanities of his persistent rationalism, as well as his blatant disregard for existence (evinced by the transcendental reduction) in favor of the objects of consciousness alone.
Our concepts, our meanings, the world and all objects in the subject-object polarity relation, all of these things founded in and by the ego qua transcendental egoity, are they not grounded in and through abstraction - abstraction being an absence and a loss insofar as it produces a present gain in ideality?
With his Cartesian Mediations Husserl offers a superb introduction into phenomenology and what we may call the hermeneutics of the real.
Building upon the Cartesian cogito and meditations, Husserl offers us a new way of looking at reality and gives us the living world, an immediacy beyond the techno-scientific immediacy we are use to (themes which he furthermore worked out in his Crisis).
More than anything however, Husserl’s Meditations show a strong influence of Leibniz’ Monadology, as the Cartesian ego finds transformation into the monad.
I see very little justification for any normative/prescriptive claims coming out of this text - any such claims would hinge on some naive optimism in humankind. The phenomenological reduction is interesting as a way of trying to think about things, but not much more. Also, on a readability note, if he is trying to get to "the things themselves" then why does he use such esoteric, ugly, and unnecessary language? (i.e. noetic/noematic, etc)Please, someone defend the Hustler, he dead so he can't defend himself.
Bu adamın her kitabına Asıl Fenomenolojiye Giriş Bu Ulan alt-başlığını koyması harika ya, başka felsefede yaşayamam. Ama bence fenomenolojiye en karmaşık giriş (eğer öyle bir şey varsa) bu. Derli toplu, çetin, lakin karmaşık.
Either utterly incomprehensible or utterly wonderful. In any case, a foundational text, for better or for worse.
---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---Based on lectures that Edmund Husserl delivered at the Sorbone in 1929, the Cartesian Meditations establish Husserl’s methodology of (transcendental) phenomenology, arguably his most important contribution to Western Philosophy. The title of this work is a reference to Rene Descartes’  Meditations on First Philosophy  and is a radical interpretati
---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---Based on lectures that Edmund Husserl delivered at the Sorbone in 1929, the Cartesian Meditations establish Husserl’s methodology of (transcendental) phenomenology, arguably his most important contribution to Western Philosophy.
Husserl is the father of phenomenology, and while his writing is plodding and at times difficult to read (his work is based on lecture notes), his insights have proved revolutionary.
---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---
Pleasantly difficult. Glad I've finally gotten a better grasp on Husserl. Much more influential on Sartre than I had imagined. I especially liked the footnotes about Husserl's marginalia, editing, and anxiety about the organization of his project (e.g. "does this bit come too late?" Yes, it probably does, but that's okay, Ed.)
science of thinking how is it able to create phenomenology there are some kind of meditation about meditation and decartism .organisation of subject and object in mind make some kind of difference between something like it, but today no one thinking about thinking.
I typically do not include books here that I rate <4. But, I read this thing. And I'm glad I did. Even if I remember practically nothing about it. One of my professors said she flung it across her room.
Though there can hardly be one sole introduction to Husserlian phenomenology, this comes the closest. The devilish magic of its prodigious methodology can sadly not be appreciated as fully as it might've been if it weren't haunted by its successors oh so badly (especially in the fifth meditation).
Le cose della filosofia non stanno sotto la luce metallica museale, ad illuminare qualcosa che vogliamo mantenere così.
Ciò che troviamo in un museo è già confermato, preso così dallo spettatore per come esso di manifesta.
Il chirurgo non guarda al mondo come essenzializzato, ne vuole scoprire le intime cause ed i processi trasformativi.
Deve aprire la Carne del Mondo, ritornare all'ego trascendentale per dimostrare l'inevitabile e necessaria intersoggettività trascendentale.
Husserl ha superato la crisi, ha rifondato un percorso millenario, ha dato luce a ciò che era da troppo in ombra, non scrutato.
S-a dus Husserl drăguțul în vizită la frații francezi.
I-au arătat ei francezii bietului Edmund cum e treaba cu trăirea și fenomenul.
L-au dus în Amphithéâtre Descartes și bietul om a început să debiteze...
Eh, n-ar fi fost grav, că Edmund probabil și-a revenit după câteva ore bune de somn.
Dar s-au gândit ei, vreo câțiva, că e un sens adânc în ce spune un intelectual neamț îmbibat cu alcool francez (de calitate alcool, fără îndoială) dacă îl lași să contemple măreția carteziană...Nu există o explicație mai bună pentru ”Meditațiile carteziene”, carte care de altfel nici măcar n-a apărut în germană cât timp Husserl trăia...
If you've ever found yourself questioning reality and the evidence it presents to you, this is the book to read.
If The Matrix and Descartes left you wondering if your consciousness is lying to you the entire time, this is the book to read.
Husserl might not be the best writer out there, but his arguments are more than enough to justify reading this book; and this is without mentioning his status as a giant in Philosophy.In short; if you desire to escape solipsism and go on a roller coaster ride of "Aha" moments, Husserl is the man for you.
Good luck to anyone reading this,You'll need it!
Husserl has completely outdone himself here, but I still don't get how this is not solipsistic and understand the criticisms of Stein and others, yet this is not his last "turn". Some interesting ideas anyway, reforming Descartes for good and establishing a sphere of inner knowledge that would allow us to see our limitations, but that sadly, can't go beyond oneself.
خواندن و فهمیدن ترجمه ی فارسی بسیار دشوار بود
A masterpiece!
Intentionality is apparently everything... A real head-stretcher. Good, but dense.
"Each cogito, each conscious process, we may also say,<{means" something or other and bears in itself, in this mannerpeculiar to the meant, its particular cogitatum.
Conscious processesare also called intentional; but then the word intentionalitysignifies nothing else than this universal fundamental propertyof consciousness: to be consciousness of something; as a cogito,to bear within itself its cogitatum.""The path leading to a knowledge absolutelygrounded in the highest sense, or (this being the same thing) aphilosophical knowledge, is necessarily the path of universalself-knowledge first of all monadic, and then intermonadic.We can say also that a radical and universal continuation ofCartesian meditations, or (equivalently) a / universal selfcognition,is philosophy itself and encompasses all self-accountablescience."
Fundamental to the understanding of phenomenology in general, especially to its proper growth in the 20th century, this book stands as a monument to critical thinking in an age where so many of the great men are largely forgotten.
This book is exemplary in giving the basis on which much of his phenomenology must be based, especially his non-psychology basis which he felt that Heidegger violated with the dasein.
Historically, it was Frege who criticized phenomenology for being a psychologism and Husserl spent a great deal of his time defending exactly this.
I read this much much faster than I had originally intended, in the interest of time.
I needed to understand this text because I was reading Totality and Infinite alongside it - and a lot of Levinas is in direct response to both Husserl and Heidegger.
What I read, I loved; and I feel bad for not giving it more time and more thought.
But I will return to the text again when there is more time.
Husserl is not called the father of Phenomenology for nothing.
Husserl is, quite literally, the father of phenomenology - and Heidegger, Levinas, Merleau-Ponty are his children.
Husserl is difficult. It took me a week to analyze a three page essay of his. Knowing and understanding Descartes and Spinoza are gateways to breaking open how Husserl thinks and sees the world. We are always coming from a position, laying our past on present knowledge, perhaps corrupting an image with incorrect relations, and this is how Phenomenology is brought into the world. His questions on Thinking made Heidegger and Derrida possible.Cartesian Meditations are for serious students of modern philosophy.
A very good book written by Husserl. A very systematic and as i see it is very absolute. His system regarding the 'I'is very concrete. Unlike Descartes who has influenced Husserl in this meditation, he has somewhat supported the ego or I in a very absolute manner, unlike Descartes that have left the mind and body dualism problem.
I read an excerpt from this in first year, it was more like ploughing than reading, however once you get used to the style, it is very engaging and a respectful rebuttal to Descartes, and highly original.
