https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/72543.The_Door_in_the_Wall
The motto of the book is in the title: if you walk along a wall long enough, you will find a door - to a new life.The young main character must learn to find new doors to open when he has to face the bitter fact that he is unable to use his legs.
A kind monk helps him to understand that using his mind and learning to read will carry him even further than his legs ever could.What I learned from reading this with my children: Compassion, determination, education and flexibility are great values, and to build a better future for ourselves, we must always remember to put enough doors into our walls to give children with disadvantages a fair chance to find them!
A lovely story, simply yet eloquently written with a beautiful message.We all have walls in our lives - but the Lord always provides a door.
But Robyn takes ill and loses the use of his legs, John-the-Fletcher never arrives, and the servants flee for fear of the plague that rages through London.A monk named Brother Luke carries Robyn to the abbey where he cares for him.
“We must teach thy hands to be skillful in many ways, and we must teach thy mind to go about whether thy legs will carry thee or no,” Brother Luke tells Robyn.
“For reading is another door in the wall, dost understand, my son?”Robyn grows strong, and eventually receives word from his father to continue to Sir Peter’s, which he does with the aid of the monk.
Lots of hard lessons for a ten year old to learn in any time period and in any culture, but Robin learns his lessons well and in believable ways.
The author is almost prosaic in her use of language as the story flows with a lovely rhythm and meter throughout Robin’s adventures.
We see Robin grow and mature through his use of words and how he handles each new wall he’s presented with.
A quick read for the most part, while a challenge to quickly get a handle on the time period and the culture.
I had to read this and do a book report on it in 5th grade (approximately). I remember it being the most dry, torturous book I'd read up to that point. I wonder what I'd think of it now?
But ANYHOW he is such a brat that he scares away anybody and everybody willing to help him or care for him...Oh yha and his parents are important people so their off helping with a war effort.
So after all this happens the kid wants to see his dad since he's been writing letters and his dad says it's ok for him to come up.
So the kid takes it UPON HIMSELF (Brave kid you got sir...also slightly stupid) to go to his friend about 5 miles away and tell him about the attack so they can save the day.
I just picked this up to reread for the first time since childhood, and found it didn't live up to my memories (for one thing, I found it quite stilted this time around) but I'm keeping it at four stars for how much I liked it at the time.
Back then, I thought the book was lovely and wise.
That was the part I remembered from childhood; the "exciting" part in the second half about the besieged castle I'd completely forgotten.
I needed some heart medicine today, and looked, as I am wont to do, for a children's book to fill the prescription. This was just the thing -- good and true and right.
The kids and I read this very slowly over several months as part of one of our homeschool co-ops group read-alouds.
Yes, I'll admit it, I cried at the end and the kids all laughed at me!
Written in 1949, this sweet story tells the tale of Robin, son of nobleman Sir John de Bureford.
But Robin's destiny is changed in one stroke: He falls ill and loses the use of his legs.
A monk named Brother Luke rescues Robin and takes him to the hospice of St. Mark's where he is taught woodcarving and--much harder--patience and strength.

He become ill with the pest and is taken in a monastery by brother Luke where he befriends friars and learns skills such as swimming, fishing, whittling, reading and writing, astronomy, the ways of the world, and moral teachings.I really like this book because it teaches many lessons in life.
He learns to read and write by taking it one day at a time as the friar said, "We shall divide the days into teaching thy mind and teaching thy hands, then weariness shall not give thee excuse for discouragement." It teaches people that there is always a skill to learn with your hands and mind that betters you in life.When the castle Lindsay that Robin is staying at as a page is surrounded by the enemy Welsh, he must find a door in the wall.
I read this aloud with my son Andrew for his summer reading list. The language took some getting used to, but we loved the themes of this book. Knowing and loving someone with a physical disability made the message even more pertinent. Highly recommend! When you come up against a impenetrable wall, you only need search for the door that will enable you to pass through it.
Read this one for my Newberry book discussion group. Loved the setting, and the story about a young boy overcoming difficult times including separation from family, war, and a life-changing illness.
Grade: B+
This book felt so authentically English, that I was surprised to find that the author is American and never lived in Britain. It's a simple tale and much more could have been done with it, but its value lies more in the vocabulary and ambiance, than the plot and characters. Worthy having on the shelf, but not a favorite. Also, some of the covers of certain editions look rather ridiculous, more farcical than anything, so don't let those deceive you into thinking this is anything other than a genuine English story about battles and knights.
I wanted to like this more than I did, but found I just couldn't click the 3-star button. The characters were all right, but I didn't find the story very engaging, there were hardly any female characters, and it was a bit message-heavy. As far as boy-in-medieval-times-Newbery-winners go... I preferred ADAM OF THE ROAD.
I didn't quite understand why this merited a Newbery Medal, but maybe the pickings were slim that year. The story, about a young boy living in medieval England who loses the use of his legs and is helped by monks until his parents come back from their courtly duties, reminded me of this comic strip:
This was a nice story in a Medieval setting. I liked the portrayal of the time period and the story itself -- I guess I'm a bit ambivalent about it overall. The characters were fairly external -- I didn't feel like any of them really opened up to the reader. But still, good historical fiction for middle grade.
Not every Newbery winner is a winner. This one, however, was wonderful. Two thumbs up.
I liked this more than other Newberys set in the middle ages.
I liked the writing more in Good Masters!
I'd have them read this before Good Masters!.
"The weather was neither rainy nor fair, neither hot nor cold, but somewhere in between, "as English weather is like to be," said the friar." Isn't that the truth!
If we do what we are able, a door always opens to something else."""A fine and beautiful life lies before thee, because thou hast a lively mind and a good wit.
Swimming hath helped to make them so, but only because thou hast had the will to do it.
An enjoyable chapter book for kids set in medieval England. Young Robin, crippled and alone, is taken under the wing of a friar, where he learns to see possibilities where there appear to be none. The attention he receives help to restore his body, mind, and spirit.A hopeful story of love, loyalty, and heroism.
A decent story, I suppose. But it is so torturously slow-paced that my mind wandered off so many times that I can't keep track of them all. I was left with many questions at the end. What sickness did Robin have? Why did he of all people go out to get help for the war? Why did it have to have such a cutesy-wrapped, unrealistic ending? The medieval language is terrifyingly accurate, and the pencil illustrations are gorgeous. But unless you really love slow-paced stories or medieval history, I wouldn't recommend it.
Another good book I read with the kids. I think with the Crusades and stories about the pilgrims fleeing, somehow one forgets how much good the humble people in the church did. It is also something to contemplate being unable to reach any of ones family, as we are always connected now, with the age of smart phones and social networking. My children liked the book (they were 5, 7, & 9 - all boys). I do wish we had read it slower than a chapter a night.
Great little book about a boy who's hopes of becoming a knight are dashed when he loses the use of his legs as a result of illness. He winds up being cared for by a kind and patient monk, Brother Luke, from whom he learns skill and virtue, and ultimately learns that even a crippled boy can have the courage of a knight.
I loved this one growing up. Glad to finally read it again. I think the author does an excellent job with plotting as well as simple lessons that children can be inspired by without making it too obvious. Plus, a fun adventure story. :)
DO NOT READ THIS BOOK! This is the worst book I've ever read in my whole entire life. If there was a zero star I would rate it a zero star. WARNING: DO NOT READ!
A very dear, very simple, very accurate little book. One I think every child ought to read.
Newbery Medal: 1950During the Plantagenet Period, a young Robin, disabled with unknown crippling malady, is left alone as his father goes to war and his mother must attend the queen who is sick.
Luckily for Robin, Brother Luke is a kind, gentle soul who guides and teaches him more than scholarly facts, but also the ways of life, both fortune and misfortune.
Brother Luke encourages him to look for The Door in the Wall which opens avenues to him in the face of adversity.
This Newbery Award Winner of 1950, both glorifies and simplifies war...and Robin's disabilities are not portrayed realistically.
I read this by myself several years ago and did not develop an appreciation for it.
It was required reading for several of my kids and so I opted for a read aloud experience this go 'round and I'm so glad to have had the chance to re-read it.
If you're looking for a book to read aloud to kids or assign during studies of the Middle Ages, this is a great read.
Filled with adventure, despair, and a great deal of hope, this book is a winner!
I've always loved this story of a well born boy crippled by polio in the middle ages who finds a way to become a hero. It's both gentle and vivid and brings the period to life. A lovely insomnia re-read.
