https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/627939.Armageddon_2419_A_D_
I read this book many, many, many years ago sometime in the 1970s.
That all said it's a good read.This is "basically" the proto-Buck Rogers.
Buck has gone on to great fame in movies, TV and popular culture since this book...just thought I'd mention it.Let me point out up front that it was (as I said) written in 1928, it's far from politically correct.
The reader is so poor as to (for me at least) make the book "un-listen-to-able".
I can't emphasize enough how bad the narration on the audio book is....Really, don't try that audio book.
In Armageddon - 2419 A.D. Rogers is a First World War veteran working for a company searching for radioactive gases in the late 1920s.
He also acquires a wife, the brave and resourceful Wilma, who proves to be a doughty fighter as well.Armageddon - 2419 A.D. tells the story of Rogers’ first successful large-scale military campaigns, the first great American successes against the Han airships and a vicious war against traitorous American gangs.
This book comes very close to being the futuristic adventure it's supposed to be, it's got a good portion of the recipe... but the ingredient's that are missing are vital ones, so it fizzles. The odd thing is, much of what's missing is well represented in the Buck Rogers comic strips right from the beginning.  Anthony Rogers survives World War 1 only to end up caved-in in a mine and preserved by gas for 500 years. We receive this information first person, but with so little emotional investment
The weapons get a lot of play since the besieged forest-dwelling Americans are at war with the technologically superior Hans who occupy America.
That's the funny thing here: this is not a story about an oppressed people who return to nature and use old fighting methods to battle a futuristic enemy, oh no.
It might just be the lackluster narration, but Rogers rarely seems to be in real danger and the security blanket of the forest people and his wife Wilma is away from him only once in the entire story.
This is actually the two original novellas, Armageddon 2419 A.D. and Airlords of the Han mashed together with a little accommodation for the modern reader (who apparently can't be relied on to know what "The Great War" meant to someone from 1927).Turner Classic Movies started showing episodes from the 1939 "Buck Rogers" serial (starring Buster Crabbe) a few weeks ago and I got so enthusiastic about watching that confection that I dug out the root of the material.
The original Buck Rogers tale. Holds up about as well as contemporary pulp fiction because that's what it was. The science is pretty fantastic, but it's like Star Wars or Star Trek: who cares?A good read.
But the premise of ARMAGEDDON 2419 A.D. and its hero, in the original story named Anthony Rogers, were unique -- especially in the hugely popular newspaper comic strips that partly adapted the story and changed Rogers' first name to Buck -- in the sense they gave us the genre's first leading man of a fantastic future with marvels like rocket ships and disintegrator beams.
It seems like fate that this revolution has found a hero who might have been born five centuries ahead of his time...I know, the story is virtually unrecognizable from what most fans know of Buck Rogers, right?
The original Buck Rogers story. Great SiFi from the pulp era. Recommended
Ugodno me iznenadila knjiga. Vrlo je maštovita i razrađena. Da nema toliko nacionalnog ponosa i više bi mi se svidjela..
DNF. Nothing about the story or characters made me want to finish this. Just not for me.
This novel is, considering its age and the expression of commonly held beliefs and prejudices of that era, a pretty well-written piece fiction that is still able to provide a fair amount of excitement and entertainment.
She rarely faints and is even allowed to successfully take part in combat.The story is, despite its preoccupation with war and racial conflict, surprisingly positive, especially in its future expectations of technical mastery.
A much better story than the cheesy Buck Rogers serial with its comical special effects or the famous comic strip which are both based on this book.Definitely one of the best examples of pulp-fiction.
Cave fart gas expert Buck Rogers becomes trapped in some particularly hospitable--and apparently breathable--fart gas, that leaves him in suspended animation for about 500 years.
In your face Steve Rogers!
I'm jealous of living in a time when people could enjoy such things without my modern skepticism.I listened to this based on the title.
(view spoiler)[If I understood correctly, Buck encountered a lesbian who wasn't interested in his potential affection, I though this somewhat unusual for the age this was printed in.
(hide spoiler)]You can listen to it free on Youtube and probably Gutenburg.
He wanders around until he meets and saves a woman's life from people flying around and throwing bombs.
The woman is Wilma Deering.
From there he's drawn into a war against a race of Hans (at the end it is discovered this is a hybrid of Chinese and an alien race that crashed somewhere in China.) who had conquered the world while he was sleeping.This could have been a solid four star, but for a forty or fifty page section where the author felt he needed to describe the future science and the mores of the Han. The author diverted from a straight forward telling of the story then diverts into this.
This is a wild pulp fiction tale just full of inventions and patriotism. The characters don't really have any personality, but the surrounding 'world' makes up for it. It's old sci-fi, good for a few laughs, and a few head shakes. If you're looking for a quick diverting read, please let me recommend it.
Disappointing. I should cut it quite a bit of slack since it's nearly 90 years old, but still...I'd rather have spent the time re-watching some old episodes of the Buck Rogers TV series. Cheesy as they were, they were still more entertaining.
I read the 1962 Ace paperback edition of "Armageddon 2419 A.D." This edition contains both the 1928 novella of that title and Nowlan's 1929 sequel, "Airlords of Han"-- and it presents them as if they were a single novel (with sequential chapter titles), rather than distinguishing them as two separate tales.
Anyway, since this edition contained both the original "Armageddon 2419 A.D." and the "Airlords of Han" sequel, I will reference both stories below."Armageddon 2419 AD” was lively enough as a straightforward pulp-action tale, but "Airlords of Han" tried my patience-- especially the two back-to-back chapters consisting entirely of technological explication.
This book is racist and sexist. A man skips forward a few centuries into the future only to sleep with and marry the first woman he came across. From there he leads a war. That's it really. It is so obviously written by an American straight white man in the 1920s. I felt so uncomfortable reading this at times.
Given all of the bad movie and TV versions of a lot of my favorite books and comics, I really should have known better.For reasons even I'm not sure of, I changed my mind and read it.
Where most future stories have characters that simply speak the language of the time the story was written or seem to practically spout the King's English, Armageddon looks into how language can change over the centuries.
If you're not a fan of Buck Rogers, reading this book just might change that.
Using his First World War battle experience and all around 1920s' American confidence and superiority, Rogers quickly becomes one of the resistance leaders as he helps his 'gan' (a gang or community) fight back against their oppressors.Surprisingly brutal at times, heavy on the futuristic exposition and explanation and scattered with jingoistic twaddle that grates a little even when accepting the era in which it was written, Armageddon 2419, AD is an important, influential sci-fi novella.
Pot boiler science fiction with racist overtones. Very disappointing for the 1st Buck Rogers novel.0.5/5
Buck Rogers wakes up in the 25th century to an America ruled by the Han and existing on varied technologies...
Buck Rogers Prologue: I randomly came across the fact that some consider this to be a “Buck Rogers” book even though the main character is Anthony Rogers.
If someone wanted an example of this could probably be pulled from every page of the book but the most obvious example is the main characters certainty in his own moral superiority to the Han for no reason other than they are Han. As is common in books where a person travels from another age, the man from the 1900s proves superior to those of 2419.
A little Oedipalia for ya.How about Anthony's speech to his Han captor, Heaven-Born San-Lan?"It is the end of the Air Lords of Han....
Ye shall reap it!"Your ancestors thought they had made mere beasts of the Americans.
While the Hans have degenerated into a race of sleek, pampered beasts themselves, they have unwittingly bred a race of supermen out of those they sought to make animals.
You have your choice of dying in the wreckage, or fleeing to the forests, there to be hunted down and killed as you have sought to destroy us!"Five centuries removed from his early 20th century context, Rogers acts as a Nietzschean superman prophesying the end times for a soul-less, degenerate "Mongolian" civilization.
My guess is the Buck Rogers that we're familiar with was more the product of the retelling of the stories in the newspaper comic strips in the 1930s.There's a lot to like in these stories, once you get past the early pulp style of writing, and the blatant racism which was a product of the time.
Some of the descriptions are overly technical, and that slows the action in a couple of places, but most of the "science" in the story seemed feasible to me, at least when considered to be part of a science fiction story written almost 90 years ago.
The original Buck Rogers story is a little surprising.
It is certainly a great example of pulp science fiction, and you can see why it might have inspired the comic strips and serials that came later.
It’s entertaining in exactly the way you expect from pulp.What’s a little surprising is that, when we think of Buck Rogers, we think of spaceships and otherworldly adventures.
When he wakes up, he’s been in suspended animation for almost 500 years, preserved by the radioactive gas.The Earth that he finds when he wakes up has been transformed by war and empire.
It’s a fun book to read, whether you are a fan of Buck Rogers or not.
I quite accidentally found this book at Project Gutenberg, when I was searching for a place to buy the 'Buck Rogers in the 25th century' dvds.I had no idea this wonderful tv series was actually based on a 1920's story by Philip Francis Nowlan.As it turns out, the tv series doesn't have all that much in common with the original story.
:-)The rest of the story is basically about the fight to defeat the Han (oppressors of the American clans) and the rise to power of Anthony.The book is quite 'light weight', but fun to read.
If you can look past the somewhat blatant 1920's-era racist undertones -- a standard Classic Pulp Fiction caveat, in my opinion -- this is a quick fun read.
The "science" in this science fiction novella is quaint, to say the least, but presented with enough gusto that it doesn't bog down the fast moving story.
Even with all of it's quirks, this proto-Buck Rodgers novella still reads better and is far more entertaining than it's progeny (e.g. the unwatchable Buck Rodger TV show).
This is in the Public Domain, so it's free-fifty-free to try out.
I enjoyed it, in all it's 1920's pulpy weirdness
This is a strange book that at times seems to be calling for a race war between the US and China and at others a civil war between the US Left and Right. In the end, it tries to pass itself off as a pulpy account of a human rebellion against alien overlords. Along the way, it provides a deeply condescending depiction of women. It is actually an awful book, while still being remarkable for having spawned 90+ years of science fiction shlock - Buck Rogers.
I love the classic science fiction and it was great fun to finally get around to reading the first Buck Rogers novel. That being said, the title is horrible and more misleading than descriptive, and the book is also extremely dated to the point of even being racist. I mark it up as a product of the time, and let it go at that, and simply enjoy this very early work of science fiction, which also pretty impressive for its imaginings of the future for the time period as well.
I finished another book with no pictures!This book was the beginning of Buck Rogers, the prototype that led to his newspaper strips, which led to the radio show and then to a television show from just before my time, so I've seen very little. After a rather engaging first half, the book devolved into detailed descriptions of wars fought using made-up technologies. I enjoyed enough to try the other book, but I'm glad there are only two.
Excellent Vintage Science FictionA wonderful and foreshadowing story. It's amazing how stories like this from so long ago seem to have so much bearing on today, and where the future could be heading.  Much different than the Buck Rogers I grew up with, but just as interesting, and definitely more believable and possible
