https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/672244.Helliconia_Spring
Helliconia Spring, although it certainly has its fans, I found to be pretty rough going.Aldiss has meticulously imagined his Ice Age world facing the coming of a thaw that occurs only every 1000 years or so.
Scientists from Earth survey these changes from an orbiting space station called the Avernus.
(Why is this space station named after the entry to the underworld from Roman mythology?) I was curious to know more about what was going on with the Earth scientists, but I did not wish another 100 pages added to this already long novel.
Throughout this series (and even this book) characters come and go but the real story is that of the Planet Helliconia itself as the annual cycle of life is followed through from Spring to Winter.
That's a larger prospect than it sounds given that one Helliconian year is equivillent to 2500 Earth years.Human civillization rises and falls in the space of a Helliconian year when the monsterous Phagors become the dominant species during the winter.
Nature imposes a harsh but necessary routine upon the inhabitants of Helliconia.This really is a masterpiece but it is slow going and one must be prepared to realise that the characters are not the central focus of the books.
Executive Summary: There were times where I enjoyed this book, but they were few and far between. Just not enough for me to like overall. Full Review If you look at how long it took me to read this fairly short book (26 days) and how many multiple day gaps I often went between reading it, it should be no real surprise I gave this 2 stars.I found the prologue long and pretty boring, and it might be the most character development of the entire book. Unfortunately after the prologue that character
Executive Summary: There were times where I enjoyed this book, but they were few and far between.
If you look at how long it took me to read this fairly short book (26 days) and how many multiple day gaps I often went between reading it, it should be no real surprise I gave this 2 stars.I found the prologue long and pretty boring, and it might be the most character development of the entire book.
I did find the development of the town pretty interesting, especially the technological innovations that came along.The world building was interesting, but a bit too hard sci-fi for my liking.
Heck, the prologue to the entire trilogy is a 100-page unbroken chapter.Helliconia Spring, the first of three novels in the cycle, tells the tale of a small human community as Spring comes to a world whose year lasts long enough for civilizations to rise and fall.It goes without saying that the main feature of Aldiss' novel is his incredible world-building.
The whole is told with meticulous detail, and a portrait of a unique system in delicate balance emerges, with the two main sentient species, humans and phagors, waxing and waning with the seasons.The bulk of Helliconia Spring tells the tale of a small village at the critical point when the long winter finally breaks and spring arrives to the world.
The idea is nice - supposing a year was a thousand times as long? But I found the book a bit too slow, and got bored. I finished it, but never read Summer and Winter.
(Hint to future readers: If you don't know Kepler's Laws of motion look them up, it explains an awful lot.)The story follows a couple of generations of humans, trying to survive as their world begins to warm up.
Not much happens so don't expect a lot from the plot.
All of the main events happen within a single generation and I find the time scale a bit suspect.
But in this book that effectively what happened.I will probably read the following two volumes sometime in the future but not right now.
It has a very long orbital year, which has strange effects on the inhabitants of the planet.
At the start of this book, the planet is coming out of a winter cycle and moving slowly into spring.
There are dominant life forms that start to struggle.
Civilizations rise, fall, and change.I struggled to read this book until I changed my perceptions.
While there are characters in the book, this is not a character driven story.
It is an environment driven story.
I ultimately enjoyed reading it, but it felt like a struggle to read.
I bought this book five years ago, since it sounds like a really interesting idea and has neat cover art.
I recently picked it up again and finished it, but found myself pushing through most of it.
It gets a little better than the prologue, but I just didn't care too much about the people of Oldorando (or even keep them straight, since their names all sound the same).
It would be nice to know more about the Earth Station that's observing the planet, since they seemed a lot more interesting than any of the inhabitants of Helliconia.
It will be a long time, if ever, before I pick up the second volume.
One star because I was actually able to finish it, and one star for the cool idea. I loved the science and the background information, I hated the “story” and found myself practically napping through most of it.
Le truc curieux, c'est que ça ne dérange manifestement pas l'auteur de s'arrêter au beau milieu d'une scène d'action pour nous décrire par le menu les plissements géologiques qui accompagnent le réchauffement climatique de la planète.
Et à cette même fin du roman, dans une scène de retour à la maison assez pathétique, l'auteur nous explique que la défécation de l'étrange monture du héros sera utilisée par un bousier ...
As other reviewers have pointed out the central character of this book is the planet of Hellliconia and when a planet is the focus of the novel then the resulting work is often epic in nature.This is my first reading of Aldiss and I can't help thinking that if I had read other works of his I may appreciate this more.
The upshot of this is that the seasons on Helliconia last hundreds of years and inhabitants of the planet have no comprehension of the changing of the seasons.In this novel the inhabitants of a hunter-gatherer society are part of the transition between a seemingly endless Winter and a new Spring.
Their dealings with indigenous species and plants, attempts to reconcile their religious beliefs, and their adaptation as the frozen planet moves into Spring, and I realize this isnt about these characters at all; it's a story about how the various flora and fauna adapt and change along with the ecology of the planet.Because the planet revolves around two different suns, one a semi-normal type year, and another stronger sun of which the orbit is unimaginably large, creating multi-generation long seasons.
The scope of this is such to be rather amazing....the various adaptation of the plants and wildlife, and the people all work to make this planet complete, yet there is very little awareness due to the uber-long seasons.
I get what this book was going for.
It told the story of a civilization developing under the influence of planarity forces.
By telling it through the eyes of the primitive peoples it aimed to achieve a kind of biblical scope.
Well it was successful in one sense--it was about as much fun to read as the bible.
I kept expecting it to bring it all together to make the tedious effort of watching these savages painstakingly crawl through towards civilization have some kind of grand meaning.
Perhaps that's in the next book, but I'll pass, thanks.
Anthropological Science Fiction.The hardest of hard SciFi meets pre-agrarian society. The effort it must have taken to write is matched only by the effort it takes to read.Had Helliconia been the National Geographic reality TV show described in the book I would have enjoyed it more.This 18 hour audiobook was a two month feat and I blame part of that on the narrators sleepy-go-bye-bye-voice.
The bits about Earth were interesting. The rest, not so much. I tried. I tried really hard. But I just couldn't enjoy this book.
Inhabited by humans, near-humans, and other species, its population re-discovers science as it emerges from each long ice age - all watched by a human orbital station that shares its findings with distant Earth.There's a strong similarity among Jack Vance, Robert Silverberg, and Brian Aldiss.
While there's a lot to work with here - especially relations between humans (an emerging power) and phagors (who prefer the cold), but to Aldiss they seem to be little more than fodder for his intellectual treatise.
He creates some strong characters, but then does little with them.Altogether, I found the book very slow going.
The wiki summary of the book made it a story I was looking forward to reading, but the writing style used to tell the story failed.
recenzie la:https://recomandarisffh.wordpress.com...
This book is slow, because it is thoughtful and sensitive to the intricacy of human emotion, and it endeavors to show so much, so deeply.
Aldiss is one of the few writers who can really show both masculine and feminine perspectives in his characters with veracity, so the characters stand out large in bright colors in my mind, and I fully understood their motivations and the meaning behind their words and actions.
I will definitely read the other books in the trilogy, but not until I have fully digested my understanding of this one.
Simon Maynard said it best in his review (Apr 16, 2009), so I will only say:Go into the book (trilogy) expecting the largeness of this tale. Any other mindset will take away from a brilliant world that has been created.
navučena trojka, idem dalje pa da vidimo kako će završiti
This book literally captured me. Its exquisite world building, the atmosphere and everything. They lure you into a trap. There is way too much unneeded stuff in there, characters I cannot relate to, facts not to be cared about.So the last 200 went, slowly, towards an end I was craving, the end of nothing it appears, but at least, the end of the book.
(This body of precedent may have been a reason for Aldiss' original attempt to explore the theme outside the genre.)The background he sets up is a planetary system which induces a regular cycle of barbarism and sophistication; part of a double star system, a massive long "year" of millennia is superimposed on the usual seasons, bringing regular and bitter ice ages.
Niezwykle klimatyczna opowieść, ponownie - jak u w przypadku "Cieplarni" - z pogranicza science-fiction i fantasy, , jednakowoż, ze wskazaniem na ten drugi gatunek.
Nie chcąc wiele zdradzać, nie napiszę więcej - tyle tylko, że jest to posunięcie w swej prostocie znakomite, i świetnie wypada zestawienie quasi-średniowiecznej kultury i wierzeń mieszkańców tego świata, z naukowym "objaśniaczem" zachodzących na Helikonii gigantycznych przemian.Minusem jest jedynie to, że akcja pierwszego tomu cyklu, zostaje zawieszona, dosłownie, tuż przed momentem oczekiwanej przeze mnie kulminacji - zaostrza to apetyt na ciąg dalszy, ale w sposób, pozostawiający spory niedosyt.Książkę zdecydowanie polecam!
I read the Helliconia series a couple years back.
As I started the first book I found it slow, sparse, but it was also enjoyable enough to keep reading.
After finishing the series I was content, but because of the pacing of the books I wasn't blown away by them (I had just finished Hyperion/Endymion, so Helliconia was like hitting a brick wall after the whirl-wind, world-jumping my brain was use to).
Now, a couple years later, I've found myself thinking about the books quite often.
With Helliconia's lasting impact on me I think they deserve my 5-star rating...and possibly a second read.
World-Building fascinates more than any other aspect of science fiction.
With that in mind, Brian Aldiss has masterfully created a world both unique and internally consistent.
In Helliconia Spring, Brian Aldiss moves among three different generations of characters, but his story-telling falls short in comparison to his world-building.
The planet Helliconia is truly the protagonist of the story, and its "great year" determines the evolution of the societies detailed therein.
I highly recommend this book for those readers interested in exploring a detailed and fascinating planet.
If someone is looking for a gripping story with strong, fascinating characters, I would suggest looking elsewhere.
A huge story.
Well worth the read.*****Finished the series some years later after working to overcome Lyme disease.
During those years I slowly worked my way through these books....
which, it turned out, involved bimillenial changes to the human population through plauges of tick borne diseases that mutate the population and make it more adaptable to changing climates.
The irony of reading this while working my way through chronic Lyme disease was huge.
Myriad characters and story lines.
Well worth reading, but it's not a romp in the park.
And always check for ticks.
a good part of the book is about the main character Yuli's increasing involvement in a society driven by a bureaucratic-religious caste, and subsequent escape from it at the end.Develops the themes of the Phagor and other humanoid races on the planet Helliconia, and towards later stages the earthling's watching the planet - all themes developed furhter in the sequels.The 2nd part of the book is the more interesting bit I think, as the village of Embruddock slowly emerges from the Helliconian long winter, and rapidly moves from almost hunter-gatherer tribal society to the beginnings of an agricultural and trading one - and the fortunes of several youthful tribe members are made and lost as they become leaders, warriors, explorers, and nascent scientists.
I don’t really care for books which get you all involved with one character and then leap forward several generations and introduce you to another entirely new set.
However, once we got to the second set, I was very satisfied with Aldiss’ level of intimacy with his characters.
His ability to add depth to the world of Helliconia was wonderful.But sometimes I felt I was just missing something important – there seemed to be obvious foreshadowing with bone disease and all of the astronomical information, but I couldn’t really decipher what it was foreshadowing.
I felt like I was supposed to understand something but wasn’t able to.
The world is very interesting and complex.
He introduces it in such a way that you and understand and see the original objects and creatures that inhabit it.
But it doesn't have much movement toward a climax.
Getting a little more than halfway through I skipped to the end to see if it was any more exciting.
There isn't any real maximum climax through the whole book, and then, it just kind of ends.
Perhaps the climax is in one of the sequels - but there is no way I'm going to pick one of them up.
