https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/264967.Theory_of_Investment_Value
The term "the intelligent investor" was used in the preface in this book.
I think there's a good possibility it inspired the naming of Ben's The Intelligent Investor.There are two absolutely wonderful ideas in this book (even though it takes hundreds of pages for John to get it out).1.
A business which can reinvest its earnings at a high rate of return ought to do so.
A business which cannot reinvest its earnings at a high rate ought not do so.
The idea that $1 is often worth more in the hands of a good business than a bad business (because the good business can invest that dollar at a high rate of return).
Williams puts forth the idea that the true Intrinsic value of a business is its payout of dividends throughout its lifetime discounted back to the present value. Great tool for valuation for those seeking fixed income from securities. Fun Fact: Williams was one of the first to economically explain the idea of discounting a stream of income to the present value which ultimately came to be known as the discounted cash flow model. originally used to value bonds he was the first to apply it to equities.
Considering it was first published in 1938, it is a classic that describes how to value the securities by looking at their cash flows.
Is ok
hi
An investment is worth the discounted value of the dividends it delivers until the end of time.2.
The discount rate is not based on "equity risk premium", but either a desired return or the risk-free alternative (depending on the purpose of valuation).3.
The prediction of earnings and dividends is based on analytical approach of breaking down and studying the business.4.
It's enormously important what a company will do with its earnings and whether they choose to retain them or pay them out as dividends.
And it all depends on the return a business can get on a dollar of retained earnings.
Got about 2/3 of the way through and didn't finish, ultimately put back on the bookshelf.
How to open this book..please help me out
