https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14285.Lives_of_Girls_and_Women
But things were progressing for her…She had moved as far beyond me in… the real world, as I in all sorts or remote and useless and special knowledge… had moved beyond her.”Most of us don’t question our gender, but I expect everyone has pondered aspects of the societal expectations that are based on it, especially in our teen years: whether girls can show cleverness, how to handle relationships with friends and potential partners as bodies change and hormones rage, what ambition girls can have beyond marriage, the meaning of death and life… You know; the little things.
Employing the intricate map of Christian sects; Presbyterian, Anglican, Baptist, Catholic and Union Church that coexist in town as a menacing background combined with a good share of disabled characters and some doses of mordant humor -highly reminiscent of Flannery O’Connor’s style-, Munro delineates Del’s personal growth on the choices she makes along the road to adulthood.
Munro is unapologetic and so are her characters, which become afire with life through her economical yet incisive prose.Also, on this occasion, the reader is not only rewarded by the deft unfolding pathos of a classical bildungsroman, but also by the processes that take place in the making of an artist.
My mother said she was not equal to it and anyway they were happy as they were, my father and Owen and Uncle Benny.
When I asked for some my father said, "No, your mother wouldn't like it." Uncle Benny said, "No good ever come of any girl that drunk beer."That was what I had heard Garnet say, the same words.Two qualities of Lives of Girls and Women that are noticeable are Alice Munro's taste and her potent descriptive talent.
And I was not going to be able to do it."Del Jordan, growing up in rural Ontario, Canada during the 1940s and 1950s, relates in her own voice what it is like to be a young, bright and inquisitive girl struggling against the current of expectations.
I felt I must rigidly contain this hope; to reveal it, in fervor of tone or word or gesture, would have been inappropriate as farting." Del also explores the mystifying world of relationships and sexuality, she experiments with alcohol, and continues to aspire towards a life different from the one expected of a girl living in this place of strict boundaries and a time of conformity.
People’s lives, in Jubilee as elsewhere, were dull, simple, amazing and unfathomable—deep caves paved with kitchen linoleum.She acquaint us with her quotidian town with regular folks which gradually makes several train of thoughts run through our protagonist’s mind that carry her from a diffident childhood to curious adolescence and finally to the dynamic years of youth where the confrontation with numerous choices, magnanimous ambitions and prophetic quotes helps in delineating a life which was all set to make a deep impact with her words.
Yet what really drew and kept us together were these hopes, both denied and admitted, both ridiculed and respected in each other.I smiled amidst tears and rejoiced at finding a book which gave me much more than I’m being able to express.
Increíble novela sobre el papel de la mujer en una época complicada, sobre la sexualidad, los tabúes y el querer ir a contracorriente.Lo más destacable de La vida de las mujeres es sin duda la magistral manera en la que Alice Munro expresa sus ideas.
Se tocan tantos temas y de un modo tan magistral que me es imposible hablar de la novela en unas pocas líneas.
Although the details of my life and personality are not (I think) very much like those of Munro’s protagonists, by touching some deep commonalities, Munro somehow makes her characters’ experiences happen to me — right here, right now.
(And probably still is.) I had to wonder whether Del's mismatched parents had come together this way, as they managed the post-passion years of their marriage by living essentially separate lives.Munro brought out in the open all sorts of unspoken things that happen to girls and women.
Del, and maybe Munro, consciously rebelled against society's subtle and unsubtle shaming of girls and women.
Eppure lei stessa dichiara tutto il suo scetticismo sulla affidabilità della memoria sostenendo che una delle occupazioni più interessanti della vita è guardare come la memoria ci inganna quando cerchiamo di raccontare lo nostra storia e come noi afferriamo solo dei pezzi di quella " misteriosa entità che è la verità ".Ma forse è proprio da questa possibilità di infinite versioni che un autore trae nutrimento e noi lettori con lui; a proposito del confronto fra i ricordi di persone che hanno condiviso la stessa esperienza, Munro afferma: " più sconcertanti sono le differenze fra le diverse versioni , più lo scrittore che è in me sente una strana euforia".Alice Munro ha dichiarato che non scriverà più, è anziana e vuole dedicare il tempo che le rimane alle persone care; questo era l'ultimo suo scritto ancora inedito in Italia.
I was a little surprised by the claim on the blurb of this book that this is Munro's only novel, if only because to me its structure is very similar to that of the only other Munro book I have read, The Beggar Maid.
In both cases a story is told in episodes each of which could work as a short story or novella, but the whole adds up to something more like a novel.Once again Munro writes beautifully and perceptively about fairly humdrum subjects, this time the childhood and rites of passage of a girl, Del, growing up in a small town in rural Ontario.
A pleasure to read.
3.5*As dores de crescimento de uma rapariga numa pequena cidade do Canadá, mas que bem podia ser em qualquer outra cidade, em qualquer outra parte do mundo, o factor geográfico pouca relevância tem para o caso.Numa narrativa direta e rica, a autora expõe sem papas na língua, o percurso de descoberta e afirmação pessoal de uma jovem semelhante a qualquer uma de nós.Num universo muito feminino e exposta às personalidades das mulheres que a rodeiam, também ela vai trilhar o seu caminho de descoberta inspirando-se ou questionando as diversas influências.Uma história que não tem nada de complexo ou original e onde as personagens não encarnam atitudes heróicas.
“There is a change coming I think in the lives of girls and women. Yes. But it is up to us to make it come. All women have had up till now has been their connection with men. All we have had. No more lives of our own, really, than domestic animals. He shall hold thee, when his passion shall have spent its novel force, a little closer than his dog, a little dearer than his horse. Tennyson wrote that. It’s true. Was true. You will want to have children, though.”That’s how much she knew me.
Siempre podrá salir algún criticón y decir que no es una novela sino una serie de relatos con los mismos personajes, pero, por más que los capítulos estén claramente diferenciados, tienen un hilo conductor claro que es el de una niña que se hace mayor en un pueblo rural de Canadá.
Hay muchos libros sobre niños que se hacen mayores y estos siempre me acaban cansando, pero no hay tantos sobre niñas y, quizás sea por esto, pero estos casi siempre me acaban enamorando.Parece que para Alice Munro hacerse mayor es ir acumulando decepciones.
Indeed Del Jordan, our young narrator, has never really left the town of Jubilee and a part of her never will.
She was a woman I would recognize now as a likely sufferer from varicose veins, hemorrhoids, a dropped womb, cysted ovaries, inflammations, discharges, lumps and stones in various places, one of those heavy, cautiously moving, wrecked survivors of the female life, with stories to tell...Even getting up or sitting down, or moving in the rocker, Aunt Moira gave off rumbles of complaint, involuntary and eloquent as noises of digestion or wind.Del, and most all or us, have an Aunt Moira in our lives.
There are lines I read and re-read for their transparency in nailing a subtle emotion or distilling an epiphanic moment, marveling at how elegantly and perceptively Munro gave expression to the unutterable.The story is told from the perspective of an omniscient narrator, Del Jordan, and traces her development from childhood to young adulthood.
It is not an uncommon coming-of-age story of a girl navigating the academic and social demands of school, deciphering the undercurrents in domestic relations, defining her own spiritual beliefs, testing the boundaries of physical intimacy, seeking love, and finding her way in life.
The book is marvelous for Del in girlhood but it is BETTER for her last years of high school.
Majority consistently in all forms of record categorizes the 1960's and the Boomer generation as the pivots of vast change, especially sexual and job changes for women.
Automation in the home with appliances, economic reversals after the war when the women "lost" their jobs to returning men- and media lens to urban / "other" place possibilities.
The people who are young now and most of the books written in the last 20 or 25 years!
Secondo lavoro in ordine di tempo – dopo “La danza delle ombre felici” (1968) –, “La vita delle ragazze e delle donne” (1971) è un romanzo di formazione con protagonista la bambina, adolescente e giovane donna Del Jordan, chiaramente molto ispirata all'autrice.
Gli otto capitoli del libro, al contempo separati e interconnessi, restituiscono un mondo femminile in evoluzione, nel decennio del dopoguerra: “È in arrivo un cambiamento, secondo me – dice la madre di Del –, nella vita delle ragazze e delle donne.
Una vita non più autonoma di quella di un animale domestico.” Del cresce, sperimenta, sbaglia, matura, fino a diventare una donna determinata, con un campo d'interesse prioritario e la conseguente realizzazione personale...
Alice Munro is a Nobel Prize winner.She is no Chekhov.Despite that, I think her books will stand the test of time, but they are not easy things to review.
One can imagine that Munro worked so very hard on this that she said never again.
Specifically one assumes a good deal of Alice Munro to be found in it.
But the awkward bright girl trying to survive the best she can resonates with anybody, I imagine, who hasn't been Naomi, her some-time friend who abandons her for the allure of baby showers and the other trappings enforced (if by themselves) on females.Rest here:https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...
this was the first book i've read by alice munro, so obviously i've never read her short stories. i enjoyed it to an extent, but at times found it plodding and slow. there were certain things in her descriptions of del's feelings that i could really relate to. all in all i'd probably give it 3.5 stars, but i'm not really all that interested in reading more of her work after reading this. totally mixed feelings.
I love everything Alice Munro writes, but this one has to be one of my favourites.
I don't usually like such stories - are they usually about boys?
"There is a change coming I think in the lives of girls and women.
You will want to have children, though." Alice Munro has such powers of observation.
The novel is primarily a characterization of Del, and sometimes we don't know - and can't tell - the truth about ourselves.
Perhaps not all of Del's observations are accurate, but for the most part they felt true.This is said to be "autobiographical in form but not in fact." This, her only novel, helps us see the well from which she finds her stories.
I am in Ontario for 2 weeks, but not in the part Alice Munro set this book.
I might as well be in Munro country where people don't ever want to appear to be showing off.
A lot of things count as showing off in Ontario.
I'm from Montreal which means I'm not from Ontario.
That's showing off.
Alice Munro never shows off.
She never showed off all the way to a Nobel Prize for Literature.
She no longer lives in Ontario and that's probably a good thing.
I don't know where the Nobel Prize is on the Ontario showing off scale.
أليس مونرو قاصة عظيمة جداً و على الرغم من عدم إعجابي الشديد بالمضمون القصصي في هذا الكاتب ولكن الأسلوب و إتقان الحرفة واضح جداً. أسعى لشراء المزيد من كتبها في أقرب فرصة بحول الله.
Pagine come sempre straordinarie, ad esempio quelle in cui la protagonista adolescente descrive i giorni in cui morì suo zio Craig e le lunghe discussioni con sua madre, su morte, funerali, convenzioni.
SÅ fin!
Each story focuses on different people in her life so that there isn't a lot of ongoing conflict throughout the book as a whole.
What makes it flow is the evolution of Del's character.I dragged my feet through the early years, but I felt more interest once Del began dealing with her "budding sexuality." (I'm not sure what that says about me.) Most of it isn't romantic, but instead painfully real.There is something about Munro's style that doesn't sit right with me.
She also loves to do in-depth descriptions of characters' appearance and personality.
Painted with such humor and subtlety...love Aunties Grace and Elspeth, and Aunt Nile with her green fingernails, and Del's mother, and the school friends, and Miss Farris....The best thing about this book, however, is the portrayal of Del's emotional landscape as she moves through adolescence.
Among my favorite passages: --after Del's fight with Mary Agnes ("Being forgiven creates a peculiar shame....")--Del's observations about her mother's attempts to sustain an intellectual life in their small town ("My mother had not let anything go....") --complications in Del's relationship with her best friend Naomi--the chapter "Baptizing," all about discovering boysEach chapter probably could have stood alone as a short story.
My only critique: as a novel, the book ended rather abruptly.
Publicado en http://lecturaylocura.com/la-vida-de-...Si hay una escritora que tiene posibilidades de ganar el Nobel de literatura en este año o en los siguientes es, sin duda, la canadiense Alice Munro; sería el pretexto perfecto para los miembros de la academia sueca para decir que han elegido a un escritor norteamericano, y encima es mujer.
Una buena muestra de ello es la siguiente descripción de lo que vive uno de sus familiares, el tío Benny:“Así, paralelo a nuestro mundo, estaba el mundo de tío Benny, como un perturbador reflejo distorsionado, que era lo mismo pero sin serlo del todo.
Alice no termina de acertar en una novela pobre en cuanto a hilo argumental y estructurada en capítulos largos con tendencia al relato, su especialidad. Así que zapatero a tus zapatos y Alice a tus relatos 😉
I found the narrator's ideas on these two topics very interesting.And then there are those characters who, as Cynthia pointed out, are so easily identifiable in our own lives.
I had to keep reminding myself that the novel was set in Canada, as the characters and setting reminded me so much of my growing up in the South.
The bush behind it was black, hot, thick with thorny bushes, and dense with insects whirling in galaxies."I wish Munro had written more novels.
I have very mixed feelings about this book......I went through pages of liking it, not liking it, really liking it, and really NOT liking it.
Hence, two and a half stars.The writing is marvelous and it is evident that Alice Munro has a natural talent with words.
However, I just couldn't get into the story.
I had trouble relating to any of the characters and didn't especially care for any of them......as a matter of fact, I downright did not like some of them at all.It was not hard to finish the novel, being truly appreciative of great writing, which this is......but the story, plot, and characters just didn't get to me.
