https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34988.The_Scions_of_Shannara
Recording value -1 star.The book is a return to the world of the original Shannara trilogy though much later.
magic is outlawed and practically gone (funny how often that seems to happen in "fantasy worlds") Our hero(es) are tasked with saving the world, by bringing magic back, by finding the Sword of Shannara.
They have to bring back magic to save the world, but they have to find the Sword of Shannara to bring back magic.
my first terry brooks novel, and purely by chance.
don't care if people say that brooks was a hack compared to tolkien.
what is great about brooks and his shannara series is that every chapter is riveting.
besides having fantastical characters, there's also humor, romance, and even serious emotional turmoil.
surely only something a master storyteller could execute.i'll always be grateful that i discovered the shannara series thru the Scions--(well, after this novel, it was just romance between me and its other installments...
4 meno meno/5
Even when I started skimming through it to remind myself of more details (so that I could read its sequels), I had almost no memory of most of the scenes or even important characters, so I finally decided to reread the whole damn thing.
A little condensation would have helped the pacing considerably, especially the later parts of this book, which mostly follows Par's quest to retrieve the long-lost sword of Shannara.
But if you let yourself get lost in the story, it can be quite enjoyable - so much so, that I feel motivated enough to read the second book again, Walker Boh be damned!
This has made it much easier to get immersed in the story and plenty of times I found hours slip by unnoticed and had to make myself stop reading to go on about my day.This books continues in the manner that made the previous trilogy great.
I've been a fan of the various Shannara series' for a number of years but the Heritage series is probably my favourite. The brotherly bond with struggle and love is so well written that I really relate to Par and Coll. This is, in some ways, your standard sort of "epic fantasy" with elves, dwarves, humans, etc. but the personal stories carry it so much further than just any "standard" fantasy. I've read this series before, and I'll read it again! Love it.
For The Sword of Shannara Trilogy, author Terry Brooks wrote three separate, but loosely-connected tales.
But if they don't accomplish these tasks, the land will be plunged into darkness forever.Terry Brooks really improved his skills as an author in the time between the publication of The Sword of Shannara and Scions.
It's something that you have to think through to get, and have to depend on your knowledge gained from having read the previous trilogy, because it certainly isn't put all that clearly here.This was a terrific effort by Brooks, and I am already eagerly beginning the second book of the Heritage story, The Druid of Shannara.
The Federation have begun to take over, enslaving the dwarves, fighting the trolls and banning magic.
The elves have disappeared and dark Shadowen take over the bodies of the people they destroy.
Par has the power of the wishsong and is ordered to seek out the legendary Sword of Shannars.
Walker Boh has to restore Paranor and the Druids, while Wren Ohmsford has to bring back the Elves.
Par and his brother, plus Morgan Leah, meet up with the outlaw, Padishar Creel, who thinks he knows where the Sword is hidden.
And Par has to face the worst kind off truth.Another fantastic book in the series.
This book was good, although I did not care for it as much as I cared for any of the three installments of the first Shannara series.
This novel was clearly meant to be read with with other two books in the series, and was notably less of a standalone novel than any of the earlier books.
It was, however, a great first part.
The resolution was swift.
Yet, even in resolution it had the distinct feel of a ledge, not the end of the story.
Definite cliffhangers for and ending.
Looking forward to the next installment.
Dull and unimaginative. Gave up after about 70 pages when I lost the will to read any more.
Anni fa lessi la prima trilogia e non mi mi piacque: così mi sono ritrovata con tre saghe scritte da un autore capace di annoiarmi a morte… e, come se non bastasse, ho deciso di leggerle tutte comunque per auto-flagellarmi e veder di imparare a non comprare più libri ad minchiam (so che le vostre sopracciglia sono schizzate all’attaccatura dei capelli, ma cercate di collaborare, okay?).Quindi, cosa ne penso de Gli eredi di Shannara?
Gli eredi di Shannara è ambientato trecento anni dopo la prima trilogia e Brooks ha pensato che fosse una cosa simpatica riproporre i discendenti di tutti i vecchi personaggi.
Following the typical fantasy formula a group of friends and strangers pull together to complete a campaign, but once the initial goal is reached a trinity of campaigns is introduced that divides what was a typical, singular campaign party.
Once the divisions were established I had a bit of trouble following the new story line as it unfurled in three subplots.
However, after about 100 pages I began to see just how well the author as bringing everything together and I began to really enjoy the back and forth between the divergent stories.One thing I loved, and I hope this isn't giving to much away, is the introduction of the character Mole.
Il romanzo, come i successivi, segue le vicende degli Eredi di Shannara: i fratelli Par e Coll Ohmsford, Walker Boh e Wren Ohmsford.Gli Eredi di Shannara è il primo libro della tetralogia dell'eredità di Shannara, tetralogia che presenta una sostanziale differenza rispetto alla precedente trilogia.
In questo caso (così come nelle successive trilogie shannariane) i libri che compongono la tetralogia sono parti di una stessa storia, con i medesimi personaggi e con l'evoluzione delle diverse linee di sviluppo della trama.
I fratelli Par e Coll Ohmsford viaggiano per le città della Frontiera e raccontano nelle taverne le storie, ormai leggendarie del Druido Allanon e dei loro antenati grazie alla canzone magica, ereditata da Jair Ohmsford.
Brooks is repeating himself, conveniently giving himself a main protagonist who is a bard of sorts and keeps his family's heritage alive by telling stories of the events of the original Shannara trilogy, amplified by the wishsong (he is constantly recalling information from his stories for the benefit of newcomers to the world of Shannara).
great--ad naseum--grandson of Pannamon Creel from The Sword of Shannara.But repetition aside, Brooks' story here is strong and once he gets to the city of Tyrsis, and we get to see how the city has changed over the last 400 years, The Scions of Shannara becomes it's own creature.
I am a longtime Terry Brooks fan but have primarily focused on his Magic Kingdom and Word and the Void stories.
Wishsong wasn't my favorite Brooks book, so I wasn't sure how much I would like this one.
I am happy to report that I really enjoyed this story and the characters.
It felt a little forced in a few places--where characters were sent to locations or into events more because it served the plot than through any organic need, but these problems were minor and, as a whole, the book was superior to both Sword and Wishsong.
I recommend it to any Brooks or epic fantasy fan.
I don't remember how many times I've read this book, it's quite a few, but the last time was probably over 10 years ago. Picking it up and reading it again was like meeting up with a friend I've not seen in years but we talk as it it was last week. All the classic parts of a great fantasy novel and a great read, I'll be reading book two later today.
This is the book that started it all for me, the one that got me reading, that got me into fantasy, and introduced me to a lifelong fansession with Terry Brooks. And although I've read and enjoy Sword of Shannara more, this was the one that started it all for me. If Mr. Brooks ever happens upon this review, thank you for a life made more fantastic through your stories.
The whole of this book annoyed me, because in a sense this is just an introduction to the next book. An annoyingly long introduction. It was kind of a same emotion when reading Harry Potter books, where you discover that the first four-five books have been just a wait for the Real Plot to surface. I think I would have been fine just to read the couple of last chapters and be done with it.
This was an awesome story, written as well as any other Terry Brooks book I've read. The characters are deep and interesting and the battle between good and evil is shown to be much more complex than just the good guys versus the bad guys. I highly recommend this book to anyone who appreciates a well-written, rich, and complex fantasy.
This was good story, but it got off to a slow start. As the first book in the trilogy it makes sense that it wasn't all resolved, so I'm interested in finishing the trilogy to find out how the characters finish their quests.
Exciting and enthralling. It kept me turning pages the entire time. The first two chapters were a little slow, but the rest of it was good. I would highly recommend this book to others!
This is the first book in the 'Heritage' series of Shannara and I absolutely LOVED it! This series just keeps getting better and better!
They are fast paced when they need to be - it's nice to have a lot of action!
But, they also weave a deep story with lots of detail...which makes the 400+ pages just fly by.This story continues building on the original Sword of Shannara series - bringing back the sword, the elfstones, the wishsong - the story is a similar adventure/quest to find the magical item and defeat the evil/magical demons.
Come on guys you have a magical powers - what could be cooler than that!?Another great perk of this book is that I got it at a used store with the entire series for about $4 for all!
The "ten generations" concept is interesting, removed enough to be a new story, and yet... it's not, really. It's still Allanon's half-told stories, the Ohmsford's reluctant forays into hero-hood, and evil things' efforts to thwart it all and let darkness taint the land. In a word, classic fantasy. Nothing surprising, just good old fantasy. Like well-worn jeans. The writing continues to improve, which is nice. Brooks's irritating initial quirks have ironed themselves out. Enjoyable commute distraction!
"The Scions of Shannara" is one of many books set in The Four Lands, which is populated by humans, elves, dwarves, trolls and other peoples.
They set out on a search for the Sword of Shannara, which has been lost for generations, to prevent all life from being destroyed.In my opinion, this book was not that great.
It has a Tolkien-esque world like a lot of other fantasy and I don't feel it distinguishes itself from the majority of the genre.
The dialogue was awkward at times and I never really felt invested in the characters.
At some points it really felt like a slog reading this.
chasing shadesPar and Coll seek freedom from a place where real magic is a legend and illegal. what they get is the reawakening of the Lunsford magic, affecting all of the children of Shannara.excellent follow-up series to the Sword of Shannara
This is a generic fantasy story. Expect dwarves, monsters, magic and a whole lot of walking. Points deducted for the repetitive scenes involving walking, fighting, sneaking and pretty much everything else. Points in favor of the well-constructed ending and multiple cliff-hangers.
The Four Lands are in danger of being destroyed by evil as magic is ignored and forgotten. The Ohmsford and Boh descendants who possess any magic are summoned by the ghost of the Druid Allanon. They will face many dangers including the Shadowmen as they approach the meeting.
This is the point at which Shannara series goes from amateurish Tolkien fanfic to actually readable, imho. (Although when I was 9 I loved them all.)
After finishing the original Shannara trilogy, my husband insisted we continue our journey into the world by starting this quartet.
It's definitely a different world you step into with this one.
Taking place 300 years after The Wishsong of Shannara, we find a land that's owned by the big, bad "Federation," a place where the elves have disappeared, the dwarves are systematically oppressed and magic is forbidden.
Oh the feels!) I still maintain that The Elfstones of Shannara is my favorite.
(There's just something I really liked about Will and Amberle and the story) but this was much better than Wishsong and I'm definitely looking forward to finding out more about Par, Walker Boh, Wren and the crew.
