https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5196.Tara_Road
He proceeded to tap me again and this time inquired as to the kind of books that I liked to read.
Again, I looked back to my book and again he tapped my shoulder.
As it turns out the book he gave me was this lovely novel.
In my attempt to recover my karma and compensate for my untrusting and uncomfortable manner the day I received this book, when I finished reading it I gave it to someone else; a stranger on a NYC train.
I simply explained how the book had come to me and that I was passing it along in turn.
But it's so bad someone else HAS to experience it to, so you ask whoever's nearby to smell the milk, too.I picked this book up in a grocery store in Shannon, Ireland.
Ridiculous characters and events were thrown in like Binchy was cleaning out her fridge and making soup with the contents.I finished it before the trip ended, so my mom decided to read the book on the flight home.
Later, I told my sister about how awful it was, (she loves Binchy's earlier work, too) and she had to read to see just how bad it was.
Ria lives in Dublin, Ireland, in a beautiful, Victorian house surrounded by loving family and friends.
But the day comes when Danny suddenly drops a bomb onto Ria's happily-ever-after.
It has all the elements that make stories by Maeve Binchy an ultimate, heart-warming reading experience.She wrote about people to people with so much sympathy, understanding and acceptance of the human heart and mind that never ceases to amaze and delight me.She also perfectly knew -while acknowledging and writing about all that sadness and unhappiness that people cause by letting each other down all the time- that there is a need for stories that turn out well or where there is at least hope for the future.
Binchy is one of my favorite authors and I think this is my favorite of her books. Great for a vacation read. She always wraps her stories up in nice little bows at the end, which may not generally be what would happen in reality, but I think that's why I like it - she's good at reminding people that things always work out in the end. Also, she has really strong female characters, or ones who start out weak but find strength, usually through other great women characters, which is always something I appreciate.
The reason I like this book is very complicated, but you'll love it.
This is definitely a chick lit book about a woman who lives in Dublin, runs a Bed & Breakfast with her lazy husband.
Come to find out, her husband is having an affair with her best friend.Now for the reason I liked this book.
I had a best friend who was a big time athlete and not much of a reader but I thought she'd like it because it moved fast and was light weight.
She never read it but returned it years later after I found out she was having an affair with my husband.
Marilyn is also looking to get away from her home due to still trying to do her best to get over a tragedy.Ria is pretty much a doormat from the beginning of this book to the end.
She definitely has more backbone than Ria. But the two women’s friendship comes out of nowhere for me and I thought it a bit much for them to behave as if they are best friends forever at the end of the book.Secondary characters (man there are a ton) were pretty shallow.
My favorite Maeve Binchy story.
Within a couple of pages we are joining Ria as a young adult, befriending another young Irish woman (Rosemary) and meeting the love of her life, Danny.
Historically, I understood that Ireland's culture is vastly different than America's (i.e. divorce being introduced and accepted at the turn of the century), but the dialogue amongst the Irish characters seemed outdated.The novel only becomes slightly more interesting after Danny leaves Ria for a pregnant younger woman which results in Ria embarking on a journey across seas as she swaps houses with an American, Marilyn.
Marilyn's story joins the Ria drama as she begins to acquaint herself with the members of Tara Road and we discover why she ran away from her life in the States.
Tara Rd I enjoyed this big fat Irish family tale.
I have a paperback and this is a fat little book at 648 pages.
I've had this book on my shelves for a good long time.
I don't know if it was its compact but stout size that seemed daunting or the fact that I never could get a satisfactory understand of what this was about enough to press me into reading it.
Maybe because there is so much to this book it may be hard to say it all but I hope to give enough facts myself to help prospective readers m
Tara Road is a long street at the center of a neighborhood in Dublin, Ireland.
All of the characters live and work on or at places surrounding Tara Road.
Danny made the deal of his life helping a shystie real estate seller named Barney McCarthy and fell into some good luck.
He was able to not only buy his dream fixer upper on Tara Road but also make it into a glamorous house, marry Ria and start a family.
Rosemary, Ria's best friend moves into some luxury apartments rebuilt and owned by Barney McCarthy and Danny Lynch.
I'd read other books by this author.
Judging from my experience reading Tara Road as well as The Glass Lake and certain parts of Circle of Friends, you'd think that Binchy has some obsession with women who just can't stand up for themselves.
I know that there are women out there in the same position as Gertie, getting beaten and selling their out-of-touch families on a fairy tale story of a marriage, and like Ria herself, trying hard to stand on her own and still failing because of her obsession with a man who never did love her back.
4.5 stars.
This book is big but I enjoyed every moment of it!There's nothing new here - Maeve's style is very distinctive and always follows the same pattern - but I love that pattern!It's an epic family drama with laughter, tears and ordinary life stuff...kids grow up and make choices and become adults.
There are consequences and that's that.No twists and no subterfuge so get your jammies on, light a fire and curl up with this book...it will warm your heart.(A small shout out to all the little references to fortune tellers in Maeve's books - makes me think she had the gift!
Love those bits.)
But I had heard of Binchy and, hey, "Tara Road" was in the one-for-one paperback exchange at my library's book sale, so I picked it up.
I was instantly sucked in to the characters' complex relationships, their longings, divorce and romance struggles, motivations, eforts to better themselves.The dual stories of the two divorcees on both sides of the Atlantic who exchange homes was a great plot device.
Her attempts to rebuild her life will resonate with many divorcees facing the same situation.The implicit punishments inflicted upon Rosemary, who chooses freedom and her career over husband and children, will strike home with any woman who has made that choice.
She believes nothing could be better about her life except to have a third child until the time comes to discuss this possibility with her happily married husband.
Ria’s life is turned inside out and upside down and so are the lives of her young son Brian and 15 year old Annie.
Ria and Marilyn exchange houses and a little bit of their lives for the two months in the summer and Marilyn finds solace and comfort and finally is able to come to terms with the death of her 15 year old son in Ria’s home and amongst Ria’s friends.
It has been quite some time since I have read a Maeve Binchy book, but I remembered her wonderful Irish stories about human relationships and emotions and the realm of goodness and the sorrow of misunderstandings.
I also remembered I should have a box of tissues close by and sure enough Tara Road proved true to form.Ria Johnson a somewhat awkward and insecure young secretary meets incredibly handsome Danny Lynch at work and they fall in love and move into their dream house on Tara Road and have two children.
Ovaj puta sam išla na sigurno sa Maeve Binchy... Volim kako ona piše, tako da tu nema nekih iznenađenja..Knjiga samo može biti više ili manje dobra.. Ova je, eto više dobra.. Mislim da vas je većina upoznata sa njezinim knjigama, a tko još nije..pa, vrijeme bi bilo da se upoznate.. Kuća u Ulici Tara bila bi izvrsna za početak...
The woman is Ria and the man, Dan, known for most of the book as Danny Lynch, and right from the start Maeve wants you to be a little wary of him.
I expected to be ambushed with another 200-page introduction to the life of Marilyn, but fortunately, Maeve cannot stay away from Ria, sweet, weak, wonderful chef, ever loving mother, doting wife, innocent, tolerant, moral Ria. Flawless in all ways but her blindness to any living souls’ faults.Eventually, the house exchange begins, and the two women never meet.
I did not like the soap opera type of story.
My husband asked what I was reading and I told him confidently that it would fit right in as a Lifetime movie.
I don't normally read that type of literature (or watch Lifetime movies, well, except perhaps at Christmastime!).
She writes very well and the story lines are complex enough to keep you reading.
I think she represented Ireland well and illustrated comedic and tragic irony throughout the thoughts of Ria vs.
There isn't much depth, though, to make one think a la E.
Such a wonder heartwarming, addictive story. My favorite of all of the Maeve Binchy novels. 10 stars
Watched the film - chucked the book!
I was positively wallowing in Tara Road, in the gorgeous house, the lives of the huge cast of characters, all their personal dramas and foibles, some great to hate and some to love -- just a great, delicious, mesmerizing soap opera. Maeve Binchy was blessed with amazing imagination and storytelling ability. It's a fun book for the long, cold days of winter. Get this book, a blanket, and your favorite beverage, then let it snow!
A very good read! My first of Maeve Binchy, and I'll read more.
It's official, I'm on a summer 2018 Binchy Binge.
I wanted to read an Irish book while on an Irish vacation.
Except that I only found this book on my second to last day of Irish vacation.
Dude, these characters are some of the most spineless, ridiculous women in the history of literature.
I wanted to scream so many times, "You've got to be kidding me!" The women in this book are unbelievable.
Will no person tell what's her face that her husband is cheating on her?
Americans don't say things like, "Aren't we magnificent?" I can't.
"He had a purr like the engine of a small boat on the lakes of Upper New York State."
I've read this book over and over; Maeve Binchy -- who, I was distressed to learn, passed away earlier this year -- always gives this reader her money's worth.
Definitely light reading, but her characters (new and recurring) are always so appealing, the plots always interesting, and her descriptions of Irish life, whether in the countryside or in Dublin, always compelling.
Don't be surprised if you start asking people to "mark your card" rather than asking for advice, referring to blankets as rugs or sweaters as jumpers, and describing self-importantly people as "jumped-up" after reading a few of her books!
OK maybe it was just my mood, but I was bored to tears ... I listened to more than half, all the while thinking "I have to stop this" but I continued hoping somehow I would even care ... I must have spent 7 hours or more listening! OMG.I am so glad I stopped & couldn't care less what happened to thet characters. However, on a positive note, if one were really interested in Ireland, it's people and such, perhaps one could enjoy One Star's Worth here !
As I'm not a big fan of soap opera type shows, I found this book pretty pointless. But, I'm not one to give up easily, so I finished it just so I can get it off my 'to read' list.If you are looking for a book to take on a camping trip, that could also double for fire starter, this is the book for you.
A friend left me this book after she finished it while passing through the city I was living in.About two weeks ago, since I was missing her, I decided to take it on.Amie, girl, what the hell? XD
I enjoyed a number of other Binchy books for their friendly, Irish charm and storytelling about family and community, and expected this to be a great example, given Oprah’s blessing.
At least the house didn’t catch fire like in an earlier Binchy book revolving around a building (“Firefly Summer”).
The plot felt more like a background to build this comparison on.
In reflection, I did enjoy this more than many of the Binchy books I’ve read (about half so far), but I’m expecting more.
I have enjoyed the narration of other Binchy books, often with an overwhelmingly Irish sound to the narrator’s voice.
Another well-rounded novel about community and self-discovery from Maeve Binchy. Tara Road's plot takes a bit longer to get going compared to other Binchy novels that I've read (you can only read about property development for so long), but the story line picks up in the second half of the book once Ria and Marilyn swap places and begin reconciling their own inner pains amidst their temporarily adopted communities. Binchy again displays mastery of crafting believable characters in heart breaking and heart warming stories.
I hate giving bad rating BUT THIS BOOK SUCKED A BIG DEAL!!!!
the main character is the one which I hate the most: woman who refused to let her man go even after knowing he is a bastard.
They DID discover each other but after half of the book is over.
4) The main character is happy because her husband *spoiler alert* losses his child and she thinks he would now come back to her.
Ria's son and her mother and their friend who was a gardener (i forgot his name) were the only characters I loved.
