https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347852.The_Road_Less_Traveled
This is a great truth, one of the greatest truths.
It is a great truth because once we truly see this truth, we transcend it.
Once we truly know that life is difficult--once we truly understand and accept it--then life is no longer difficult.
Because once it is accepted, the fact that life is difficult no longer matters."It amazes me how much damage I have done by expecting life to be something other than difficult and how much easier my life is when I accept that it is difficult and that I will be uncomfortable.
He asserts that it is precisely in avoiding our problems and hurdles that we suffer in our life; it is the pain and suffering caused by difficulties in life that we have to meet in order to grow mentally and spiritually.
Because once it is accepted, the fact that life is difficult no longer matters.* Without discipline we can solve nothing.
With total discipline we can solve all problems.* A person who has the ability to delay gratification has the key to psychological maturity, whereas impulsiveness is a mental habit that, in denying opportunities to experience pain, creates neuroses.
An extraordinary book about Life and the art of Living. It was the most complete and indepth book about personal development from which one become much more aware of the nature of all kinds of relationships. This book will help to shape your vision of Life!Please, just read it. Your perspective about things will never be the same. Notable, indeed!
"Dr." Peck's first doorstop.
Inexplicably, this sorry waste of time and paper remained on the NYT Bestseller list for something like ten years.
(I don't know why I'm surprised, actually -- this is the same country that elected George W.
Bush twice, not to mention the vulgar talking yam who now sits in the Oval Office.) If you were unfortunate enough to buy this, or have it given to you as a gift, do yourself a favor now: put this one the shelf right beside that other pop-pseudo-psychology piece of shit Michelle Remembers.
Leave them both within spitting distance, and leave room next to them for anything written by "Dr." Fool.
Probably the most important book on love, psychological and spiritual development that I have ever read.
Clear, straightforward, concise, very accessible.
Don't be put off by the criticism of the numerous references to "God" and "grace" in the later chapters: I found them useful and "open" (in the sense that "God" might be substituted by "universe", "energy", "oneness" or whatever you might want to call it.
There is no need to believe in a deity.) If you do find the reference to concepts of oneness or "God" problematic, just read the first parts and leave the rest for another time.
This book is by now a classic in the field of psychology.
Yet, it's written for a mainstream audience and goes through some of the basic tenets of psychological theory (e.g. attachment, individuation, boundaries, delayed gratification) but does so through the lense of spiritual growth.
Peck is an excellent writer and fine therapist who is sensitive to the issues of spirituality.
The case examples and stories in the book really bring his concepts and ideas together.
This is a book that I would recommend to therapy clients who are wanting to understand how their religious beliefs are inline with the goals of psychotherapy.
He believes that the pursuit of the truth regardless of the pain involved is fundamental to mental health, and that only through valuing ourselves can we value life and love those around us.However, while reading examples of cases that Peck has worked on in psychotherapy I felt that his confidence in his prognosis's and what he thought his clients ought to do was rather pretentious.
Furthermore as I read I got the suspicion that Peck was rather homophobic or at least that he thought homosexuality was a sign of poor mental health.

This book starts out extremely engaging and helpful in nature - worthy of four or five stars.
But midway through Peck reveals his psychology of teaching his patients and readers to become like God. While I'm certain he means no malice in this objective, he seems ignorant of negative psychological aspects of this philosophy.
Indeed, the book "Toxic Faith" cites "You can become God" as one of the twenty-one Toxic Beliefs of a Toxic Faith (p.98).
Having observed the deleterious effect of this belief among the Mormon population I find Peck's thesis professionally reckless regardless of the popularity of his message.
This book is second only to the bible to me. It teaches you what love is. What love is not. Why old fashioned values like honesty, hard work, discipline and integrity are important. Every person should read it. This book should be required reading in high school or college.
Peck begins well, citing the first of Buddhism's Four Noble Truths, "Life is Suffering".
It feels to me as if all wonder has been replaced by a kind of Victorian stoicism, a Protestant ethic of duty and responsibility....Do your homework BEFORE you watch TV, for example.
But what of the math geek who loves homework ?
What about dreams, Mr. Peck ?
It may be the screwball Celt in me that fears coming to the end of my life with all my homework done but with, Starry Night, say, unpainted.
I read this book to make my mom happy.
Her church book group was reading it, and she got all stoked about it after reading the first section.
It was a fairly bland combination of basic common sense (self-discipline is good, laziness is bad), pseudo-spiritual psychobabble (your unconscious mind is God!), and the occasional moral zinger (open marriage is the only real form of marriage).
I never even asked my mom what she thought of the book after the first part.
I suppose that would be a good thing to do.
I love my mom.
I cherish this book and give praise to Scott Peck for writing this masterpiece, a wealth of knowledge and wisdom.The first time I read it I was in my early 30's. It changed my life, encouraged me to live authentically and with courage. when your raising a family one needs to follow their conscience and make tough decisions. Peck teaches and encourages this process. I have followed up with Peck's subsequent books in the last few years.I recomend this to any adult searching for a better life but particularly if your raising a family.
The first part was fairly entertaining, with the right amount of insight and entertainment from Peck's own therapy sessions.
There was a challenge to personal change as Peck built his case for seeking maturity and using therapy to achieve that end.Peck is strongest as a therapist.
Eventually he was stretching into subjects somewhat beyond his grasp.His forays into philosophy, theology and neuroscience didn't lend much credibility to his arguments.
The final part of the book was clumsy, contradictory and seemed somewhat outdated.
It ended with me being dragged down a dark alley-way by a man with a white stick.
Kitap ruhsal açmazlarım olduğu bir dönemde bana önerildiği için tüm kitapların önüne yerleştirip okumaya başladım.
Kitabın ilk bölümü bana gerçekten çok iyi geldi.
Zaten şu cümleyle başlıyor:"Yaşam zordur,Bu yüce bir gerçektir."Bu bölümde savunduğu ve temellendirdiği temel fikirler şunlar;1) Kişiliğin tekamül etmesi gerektiği, bunun da disiplinle mümkün olacağı.2) Gerçeğe sadık bir yaşamın açık ve dürüstlükle sürdürüleceği bunun da kişinin başının dik ve özgüveninin tam olmasını sağlayacağı;3) Gerçekdışı bir yol haritasının; masalların kişiyi buhrana sürükleyeceği.
Bu manada yol haritasının önemli olduğu.Bu fikirler oldukça işe yarar.
Bunların dışında pek çok fikir daha edindim.
I read the Road Less Travelled because several Internet sites rated it the most read self-help book ever.
As a therapist and fan of self-help books I felt like I needed to get right on it.
Peck can by turns be loving then judgmental toward therapy patients.
He puts forth questionable opinions on boundaries as well, over-estimating (in my opinion) the degree of importance and control the therapist exercises in the patient's progress.
Peck wrote this book in the '70s.
And Peck, whatever his imperfections, clearly comes from a place of courage and love serving not only as teacher but example for us all.
I have owned this book since I believe 1980 or so, but consider this a book, everyone should have on their life travel.
Okuduğum kişisel gelişim kitabının haddi hesabı yok.Pis huylarımdan halen kurtulamamış olduğum gözönünde bulundurulursa,bu tür kitapların gram faydası olmadığı aşikardır.
Then I got to the Grace section.
It seems very jumbled as to the actual point of this book until the Grace section where Peck goes wacko with the God talk.
As an atheist, I was dumbfounded by the abrupt bullshit and disappointed that a book with such potential came to a screeching halt.
I have never not finished a book, but I couldn't force myself to read the last 30 pages.
This book went from great to absolutely terrible in about 2.5 seconds.
Until the utter nonsense came along, I would have given this book 4-5 stars.
I would give the last section negative stars if I could.
It was the only non-Jewish self-help book she respected, and considering her own expertise, I think that's quite a compliment.As the subtitle states, this is a book about the union of psychology and spirituality, or more specifically, how psychotherapy and spirituality are so close, they are almost one and the same.
As a matter of fact, this book was my Shabbos reading, far more appropriate than any fiction or politics I'd otherwise choose.Having said that, I must warn my Jewish friends that the author writes from a Christian standpoint.
He says this autonomous responsibility for one’s self is “perhaps the one [characteristic] that makes us most human...our capacity to do the unnatural, to transcend and hence transform our own nature.” And yet, ironically, this capacity is what we fear, referred to as the “pain of freedom”, for it means that we are master of, or at the very least partly responsible for, our choices, and thus our destiny is what he make of it.Having established that we have a choice to delay gratification and suffer for the things we value and that will bring joy to our lives, he segways into the goal—and ultimately the deepest impetus—of self-discipline: love.
This book wasn't absolutely terrible, but it was terrible. It has nothing to do with a Road Less Traveled and there is virtually no unifying theme to it whatsoever. If you can get through the author's self-congratulation of himself and all psychoanalysts you can actually find some very good points in the first few sections. But as the book progresses it gets worse and worse. The finial section is absolutely horrible. It's about God and some shit about Jesus. (I couldn't bare to read it all the way through).
Maybe that might change as my spirituality grows, but it just seemed like I was reading the bible instead of a book on Psychology."What I Learned From This Book" - what a freaking loaded question this is - you always take out of something what you *want* to take out of it.
One big thing I liked is that he mentioned that it's "lonely out on the growing edge." Another section, he talks about the difference between political power and spiritual power.
I'll write more about this after my copy comes in the mail.All in all, I think that if Psychology is your bag, this is an interesting read.
A lot of people may have issues with the last 1/3 of the book when the author delves into his religious beliefs and philosophy, but I have to admit that that was my favorite part.
(I also admit that the book made me want to be a therapist (again) as this sort of analysis is like a hobby for me and this type of book may not be for everyone as he really gets into some psychology theory and jargon.)
He brilliantly lets his wisdom and his thoughts permeate the into the readers mind by explaining his theory behind what true love is all about.Section 3 speaks about Grace and the challenges scientific thinking, the god belief, faith systems and human consciousness operates on.So how did I find this book?The book lays out a blue print of balance between the human desire to seek answers while questioning the mysteries of suffering and pain.
I still believe this is a timeless masterpiece and I would recommend anyone with the innate desire to find the answers to difficult questions – to please read this book and feel the sense of balance and joy that I found by picking up this book many years ago.Overall ratings - 7.5 out of 10.
For example, Dr. Peck addresses the ways in which each person's unconscious manifests and attempts to be heard by its owner.
He states, the "way in which the unconscious manifests itself and speaks to us if we care to listen (which we usually don't) is through our behavior" (Peck, 1978, p.248).
In the book, I think the author does a great job using what Fletcher describes as “Voice.” Fletcher states, when people write with voice, “they put the indelible stamp of their personalities on the information they are learning-they make it their own” (p.80).
This was a great teaching on values and love. A good book for us all to read in this time of warand strife in our world. Please read, enjoy and Be Blessed.
انه يتحدث عن المعاناة والمسؤولية والانضباط والحب شارحا تأثيرات العلاقة مع الآباء في الطفولة على المراحل التي تليها في الحياة، وكيف يقدم العلاج النفسي حلولا تبدأ من قبول الانسان لمبدأ التعب والألم من أجل تجاوز ضعفه والنمو بروحه.
في فصل الحب يعيد تعريف الحب ليكون ذلك السعي/الجهد الذي يهدف فيه الانسان للنمو بروحه او النمو بروح شخص آخر.
يتحدث عن الاستقلال بصفته الايجابية، عن التضحية غير المجدية في الحب، عن أن الحب يتعدى كونه عاطفة/شعور، وعن المخاطر التي يمكن ان يأخذها الناس للوصول الى مكان افضل في علاقاتهم (خطر الفقد، خطر الاستقلال، خطر المواجهة).في النصف الثاني من الكتاب يتحدث عن علاقة النمو الروحي بالدين، وعن معجزة الله ومحبته وعلاقة ذلك بالنمو الروحي والنفس.
"The Road Less Traveled" will make you realize that you CAN take charge of your life and your destiny.
It is a journey toward self-acceptance that will affirm that life is worth living.
I have had a long road to travel in coming to terms with my past and learning to accept myself.
I am now an author myself.My life journey has been one of discovering and affirming my spirit.
The Road Less Traveled was an important stepping stone for me.
I can't believe I didn't like this book as much as I thought I would. I listened to the audio and it it came across as "stiff". So the narration didn't match up to the message. This more repetitive than I like and it had a dated feel to it, as well. I think during this past year, I've read better books on the subject, so maybe this book suffers by comparison.
