https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13262783-every-day
I'm in the minority here: I didn't like Every Day, and the more I think about the book, the more it angers me.The main character, A, is Dr. Sam Beckett; A quantum-leaps from person to person, landing in a different host each day.
Maybe I should refer to YOU as "unimaginative".) None of these questions get answered, and in fact, the book brings up more questions as it goes on (it turns out that there are other entities like A, and that it is possible to remain in the same host indefinitely.
I am not kissing her because I want to, and I am not kissing her because I need to - I am kissing her for a reason that transcends want and need, that feels elemental to our existence, a molecular component on which our universe will be built. I have enjoyed Levithan's books in the past, but the magic that other readers found in Every Day just wasn't there for me.Many claims have been made about this book - that it is a clever "what if" science fiction novel, that it explores what it means to b
I have enjoyed Levithan's books in the past, but the magic that other readers found in Every Day just wasn't there for me.Many claims have been made about this book - that it is a clever "what if" science fiction novel, that it explores what it means to be genderless, without a body, and without a family, and that it is an evocative love story.
I honestly didn't get much sense of any of that.The story is about "A" - someone who wakes up in a different person's body and life every single morning.
Those are the questions at the heart of this novel, which tells a thoughtful, touching story that will surprise readers with its sentient literary style and gentle feeling.Everyone longs for human connection, but 16-year-old A.'s search for it seems to be a losing proposition.
He's long recognized the futility of trying to create lasting relationships, but everything changes when he meets Rhiannon, a girl who makes him want things he's never thought possible.This story reminds me of one of my favorite TNG episodes with a similar concept, and A.
And sometimes people just come along at the exact right time in your life when you desperately need it, and A.
He creates stories that tackle realities of modern life and depicts profound lead characters that have something intelligent and thoughtful to say about the world.At first, I wasn’t convinced about the whole concept.
The author tries to make her look especially angelic and special, but she’s sadly the kind of girl we’ve all met dozens (and more) times in our lives.But, well, it’s not like I expected the romance to knock my socks off.
And if that’s not what you’re expecting either, you should end up pretty pleased with the book, too.
I wake up the next morning in Beyonce's body.  3.5 stars. I think I hated this book, even though I was drawn into it like a moth to a flame. And by hate, I mean that I did like the book, but found myself frustrated because I was forced to question every single damn thing. There was something about the entire story that suffocated the hell out of me. My head hurt from trying to figure out how all of 'this' was supposed to work. My heart hurt from the presumed hopelessness of the situation. Yet,
And by hate, I mean that I did like the book, but found myself frustrated because I was forced to question every single damn thing.
I often tend to put myself in the place of the lead character in stories and find myself wondering what I would do in the same situation.
How could ANY one person survive waking up every morning in a different body without wanting to finally give up on life?
In the end, I was glad that I'd read about the journey of A, but found myself frustrated that he/she was a better person than I wanted him/her to be at times.
Whatever body A inhabits is fine with A.The story is, I believe, about acceptance.
People come in all shapes, sizes, genders and orientations.
Biology does play a part in a person's makeup, as demonstrated by the chemically depressed girl A inhabited one day which was moving and empathetic.
Even though being attracted to one gender is more common, A pushes the idea that it's wrong and judgmental which feels judgmental to me.
Much of the storyline focuses on gender and orientation rather than acceptance of each person.
Wow! This was such a feast for my eyes and mind! My thoughts after finishing the book: SO GOOD! I didn't even have time to mark it as currently-reading, this is how lost into the story I've been. One of the best books I've read in quite a while!Full review:Romance aside, this story is about  people .. All kinds of people in all kinds of scenarios, with different lives and in different environments. It's the most wonderful book about what it means to be human.It takes you on a journey around the
You can learn a lesson from almost every chapter, you can be in the body (and somehow even the mind) of all kinds of people, struggling with their problems, creating others, trying to fix the unfixable or to keep untouched the precious moments in their lives.You learn that actions have always consequences, that when you change things you have to assume the responsibility for doing so; you get glimpses into the head of so many types of people and at the end of the day not only you can learn a thing or two from it, but you can really become a better person.It's not that the concept is entirely original (I remember seeing when I was young a movie series quite similar to this) but the amount of research needed for this story and the perfection with which it has been implemented turns this book into a real gem.
To me, Every Day is like eating a lasagna made with three heads of garlic, only the lasagna is a book and the garlic is agenda.
The first thing you should know before deciding whether to read this book is that it is wangsty contemporary romance masquerading as paranormal and/or science fiction.
A (that's the character's name) wakes up in a new body every day.
Many readers seem wowed by the existential discussions A goes through about living in a new body every day: What is it like to be genderless?
If Levithan wrote a book entitled Sketches from a Body Jumper's Album in the style of Turgenev's 
If you've never experience David Levithan --this is a wonderful book ---(for teens and adults who feel like 'teens'...haha) What would it be like to wake up in a different body every day?
And what would it be like to be in love with a person who changed every day?
*A's* world changes when he/she falls in love with Rhiannon.
Yet, if you were 16, never fully having your own life, and falling hard in love for the first time-- ( always being the stranger..the different one...almost a ghost...because nobody really knows who you are), might not you behave a little obsessively for the person you loved?
What I’ll tell you is this, Every Day has been in my tbr wish list for a long time now and after reading it, I could say that I’m both satisfied and disappointed.
Although it was very entertaining, the tone was generally sad and in the end, there were more questions than answers although I’m sure that’s the very point of the story.
Just saying.^^Overall though, I still think this book is worth all the hype, worth all your time and money and I would really love to see this make its way to the big screen and I would definitely want to read the sequel.^^For more positive, more enthusiastic reviews, do check out Drew’s and Lola’s who are consequently celebrating their birthdays this month.
4.5/5 stars This was just a beautiful book.
WOW.
See you tomorrow…..Are just a few of the common expressions that Mr. Levithan blows up and almost redefines in the pages of Every Day. A book that forced me to reflect and take stock of my days in a whole new light.“A” wakes up every day in a different body and life.
Levithan infused A’s life with a spirit and love that jumped right into my own heart and blood.
The love for words and language appears in every page and description which seems to fit perfectly in my reading heart.
4 stars! Every Day by David Levithan is a unique, emotional, and thought-provoking book. I can't say I've read anything quite like this book before. I enjoyed it, but I have mixed emotions about how I felt about the ending and the story itself.  Every day a different body. Every day a different life. Every day in love with the same girl.There’s never any warning about where it will be or who it will be. A has made peace with that, even established guidelines by which to live: Never get too attac
Every Day by David Levithan is a unique, emotional, and thought-provoking book.
I can't say I've read anything quite like this book before.
Every day a different body.
Every day a different life.
It's been the way it is and has never bothered A much, until one day A is in a guy named Justin's body and meets a girl named Rhiannon.
A wants to spend every day with Rhiannon, no mater who's body is being inhabited at the moment.
Rhiannon I had mixed feelings about, but she wasn't in an easy situation so I cut her some slack.
Her şeyi çok sevdim ama bahsedecek vaktim yok dediğim gibi ama şuna değinmeden geçemicem, bazen yazarlar felsefi düşüncelerini, ilişkiler, hayat, aşk ile ilgili hissettiklerini de eserlerine aktarıyorlar ama çok ama çok azı bunu doğru şekilde yapabiliyor.
Alakasız bir şekilde birden felsefe yapmaya çalışan o kadar fazla yazara rastladım ki.
İşte David Levithan bunu mükemmel bir şekilde yapmış.
Okuduğunuzda kendinizle ilişkilendireceğiniz ya da "Offf çok doğru söylüyo bu adam ya." diyebileceğiniz mükemmel yerler vardı.
Çok fazla paragrafı, cümleyi işaretledim.
and then perhaps turn that wonder into a plan to find out what it's all about.This was all that I felt when I picked up Every Day. Plus the whole sweet whiff of romance sounded so warm and nice.Every single dedicated chapter of the book was a sword digging deeper and deeper into my Nerve of Tolerance.
No exaggerations in his words or portrayals of destestable and time-wasting thoughts.Read this only if you're a reader who cares not for logic, solutions, depth of exploration of ideas, characters with definite genders and a sense of morality and a story of sound closure.
Soon enough, A finds himself falling in love with Rhiannon, and wants to be with her every day, but, given the circumstances, he's unable to.
Maybe if this were something that had only happened in the first quarter of the book I'd be giving Every Day a full five stars, but his obsessiveness towards Rhiannon took up way too large of a portion in Every Day. Like I mentioned earlier, Rhiannon is an extremely likable character, and she was incredibly easy for me to empathize with soon in the book.
Levithan's presumable uncomfortability with discussing gender as a part of A's identity disappointed me, just like the author's decision to let another plot point fall aside at the end of the novel - a plot point which had originally raised my interest, only to be dropped almost immediately.This is a story about a person's love for somebody else, a love which cannot be broken even by something as insurmountable as what A has to experience.
David Levithan jumped on the bandwagon with Nicholas Sparks and created a perfectly cheesy love story, with the girl A falls in love with being the kind of person all of us have already met - there was nothing surprising or too interesting about her.
This was one of those books that I knew I was going to give 5 stars from page one.
I loved every single thing about it.
I loved the writing style, characters, story, how it dealt with sooo many important themes...
I especially enjoyed reading from A's point of view.
I loved his way of thinking so much.And it really made me think about life, and some things that I haven't thought about before.
And I love when a book does that.Can't wait for to sequel to come out, 'cause I'm going to read it the day it does.
4.25* MY HEART HURTS.
😭Every Day has to be one of the most interesting and unique stories I've ever read.
I loved how it explored so many aspects of humanity, how we look at others and what makes us who we are.
I couldn't give it a higher rating due to a single chapter full of body shaming that was demeaning, unnecessary and disappointing to read but other than that, I thought every other aspect of this book was thought provoking, heartbreaking and so incredibly captivating that I found myself completely unwilling to put it down.
And the trailer from the movie made me wanna read it now.
I really liked the idea of the book.
I don't think the movie will respect the book 100%, but still...
I have no idea how this felt for Rhiannon, but the next book is from her point of view, so I guess the questions I have now, will be answered if I read Another Day (the second book in the series).
To switch bodies every day and knowing he will never have a normal life.
I would like to experience this one day, no more!
Never really needed to know in way, because he could be a drug addict, high school jock, or a shy young girl.For everyday is a new day for him.
Everyday is a new place.
Everyday is a new body.
Most days Justin treats Rhiannon like crap, but today "A" is Justin and as much he tries to stick to the plan, he can't.
All it took was one day, one person to make him think to want more for himself.
Like I said, this book is very unconventional and very forward thinking.
I quite enjoyed the vagueness to it which I know is problem among a lot of people.
Everytime I read a book of his I am writing notes and leaving sticky notes on every page, marking my favourite passages and exposition.
Levithan writes this change of pov so well, it was my favourite part of the whole book.
I never read a book for the romance so I have a lot of practise ignoring romance arcs(especially in YA) whether it's an insta love stalker story or not.
All in all, Everyday is a good book with a lot of interesting well-written elements.
A boy who changes bodies every day.
You learn that if a parent reads to you at the end of the day, it's a good sign that it's a good parent, because you've seen so many other parents who don't make the time.
You learn how much a day is truly worth, because they're all so different.
If you read this make sure that you are ready for the world to change forever.
Be sure that you want your perspective of life to be changed.
Read this and get ready to be changed.
I immediately started sobbing after closing the book because I am just devastated to be leaving it behind me. I can definitely imagine how A must feel every day when A wakes up as someone else. My heart hurts. This book was phenomenal. Absolutely phenomenal. I'm terrified to read the sequel bc of just how much this book meant to me. Also- RHIANNON. She was just.. Amazing. David Levithan wrote her so well. I feel like I fell in love with her right alongside A. I JUST CAN'T WITH THIS BOOK. I'm feeling so many feels.
The MC, 'A', kept trying to convince Rhiannon, and us as the reader, that 'A' lived a full life.
How could you really live without any true connections?And when you read a book about a character that wakes up every day in the body of someone new, what ending do you wish for?
'A' just is.) Do you hope that 'A' finds a way to keep a body, so that 'A' can live life with Rhiannon?
'A' is a good person, and up to meeting Rhiannon, 'A' has made sure to leave each host body with the least amount of impact possible.
(A is the biggest Nice Guy TM you've ever read, it's gross.) Speaking of which, A is allegedly raceless and genderless, but I am using the male pronoun because he comes across suuuuuuper like a white dude, because it's pretty rare for any other demographic to be as condescending as he often is.
Nothing he says is wrong, except the tone of wanting a cookie for having, like, a bare minimum of human decency.) On the minus side, the chapter where he bodyswaps into a fat person is the most horrifyingly offensive thing I've ever read.So, um, it's a mixed bag, is what I'm saying.
Buy this book on: |  Amazon  |  Barnes and Noble  |  Audible  |  BookDepository (FREE WORLDWIDESHIPPING)  |3 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below). Woah. This book really made me think. What would you do, if the person you loved woke up as a different person every single day??? Could you love them??? What would you make of their appearance?? Even if they didn't really have one???? These questions constantly arose while listening to this audiobook. Btw, if you sign up for an
|3 out of 5 stars (Please read my rating system further below).
This book really made me think.
What would you do, if the person you loved woke up as a different person every single day???
Btw, if you sign up for an Audible 30 day free trial 
, you get a free audiobook!!!!
As for the actual book, I really didn't care that much about Rhiannon.
I really enjoyed the book when she wasn't there.
I felt like the fact that A woke up in a different body every single day and had to go about his/her life as normally as possible was super intriguing already.
*4.5/5 starsThis book was absolutely fantastic, just another in the long line of amazing books I've read by David Levithan this year. The end wasn't quite what I wanted it to be, but I loved A so much and absolutely loved the story.
Much like the Oscars with their 10 nominees for Best Picture, where once it was but a mere five -- now the Oscars are such a joke, they let the guy from "Family Guy" host it.Second: It annoys tremendously how much I wanted to love this book, and how disappointed I was when I finally read it.
The problem with Nice Guys like A (and I'll get back to A in a minute) is that they think they know what's best for their "love interest" -- which is, of course, himself.
