https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/498315.Styrbiorn_The_Strong
Named Bjorn at his birth, his quarrelsome nature caused others to add the first syllable “styr-“ to his name; we might say “bothersome Bjorn.” The name was expanded again in his youth by the addition of the epithet “sterki,” the strong; it certainly referred to his prodigious physical strength, but probably his stubborn temperament as well.In writing it, Eddison, better remembered today as an author of fantasy literature, acquainted with Tolkein, adapted an ancient saga detailing this hero’s exploits.
Instead, the narrative is propulsed by the words and even more the deeds of the characters.
I think the ending does not deliver actually what it suggests, but the suggestion was enough for me.It ends in Valhalla itself.This novel is in the archaic style and with archaic language (to Eddison none compares for sustained and glorious usage of archaic diction–I must have read most of the book aloud, it is just hard not to listen to it), is taken from some scraps of history in the sagas, and reconstructs the story of the central figure.
The book is leaner than The Worm; the chapters go very swiftly but with purpose, and Eddison’s admirable gift for revealing the situations the characters face one of the best things.
The characterization in particular is extremely compelling; Styrbiorn and Sigrid in particular are characters that develop in fascinating ways and have given me a great deal of thought, particularly as they are likened to Sigurd and Brunhild of the Volsunga Saga.
Their character, though, and the themes of the book are very subtle, and I wonder if they are directly approachable without having read or understood much about Norse culture and aesthetic.
As for Eddison's particular style I found his prose a little less beautiful than in The Worm Ouroborous (although still very fine) and his dialogue extremely wanting (I was often confused by the diction).
Eddison's mastery of the language really wowed me in the Worm Oroborus, despite the somewhat juvenile plot and characters.
His follow up -- a sort of reconstruction of a saga that should have been, in more poetic language than the usual Icelandic saga, but keeping with the impartial and entirely non-introspective viewpoint of the sagas -- is really excellent.
Eddison's prose is nothing short of amazing, and he shows a lot more restraint than he did in the Worm, keeping this down to about 250 pages and only a handful of main characters, including a very strong female role.
The most exciting part of this book for me was the language.
Eddison really did his homework and got the syntax just right as to be comparative with other Nordic/Scandinavian sagas, without sounding like he was translating (which he wasn't).
Also in keeping with the saga tradition, Eddison presents the story without a bias toward one character or another, which I think makes it easier for the reader to come to a moral decision about the story while yet appreciating the complexity of human interaction.
A little heavy at times due to language but overall quite wonderful.
I am really digging these turn of the century writers who unearth the amazing Nordic tales- some of the most kick ass stories relayed with the most exquisite composition I have ever read. Styrbiorn the Strong is an amazing character. I encourage anyone with the slightest interest to chew on some of these masters of the tale telling. We need Styrbiorn the Strong in America.
When essentially writing fanfiction for his beloved Nordic sagas, Eddison displays a stark and restrained style, bereft of philosophical pontificating; it's about as far from Memison as one could imagine, and barely feels like the work of the same author.
Nordic Deliciousness! Need to track down a copy of the U of Minn. reprint.
More powerful writing from Eddison.
