https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1072531.The_Naked_Communist
So apparently this book is being reprinted for it's 60th anniversary and netgalley made it available to read and review.
After getting through the introduction of the book though I really wanted to kick myself for picking it up.
The author makes such a blatantly one sided argument against communism and uses things out of context to make his point.
Lying to your constituents to get what you want wasn't just a communist thing.
There was no subtlety involved in showing why this might appeal to people at all, just pages and pages about how communism is a tool to manipulate the masses.
The book was published over 40 years ago, yet it is so relevant today because it parallels the liberal-progressive strategies used in the destruction of our free-enterprise economy.
The Communists have changed their names over the years, but their intent is the same: destroy liberty, choice, and AMERICA.
Whether they're Liberals, Progressives, Socialists, or Communisits, their intent and strategy is to destroy faith in God, property rights, protection of life, and eliminate free choice and demonize individualism or any expression of free thought.
In our 2010 elections, we too should shun them, reject them and defeat them!
Major points in the communist doctrine are presented and rebutted.
The history of the major players, although short, were informative and there are many points of history up through the Korean war that were enlightened upon.
One would wonder why it took so long for socialism/communism to nearly destroy America considering how infiltrated our society and government has been since the russian revolution took place.
When you read this book and you will find out just how far America has succumbed to the plans of the communists, it is truly sad.
Probably one of the most eye-opening books I've ever read.
I think my jaw dropped several times while reading.
Not in this age.Much as Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged contains disturbing prophecy of the times we are living in, so do Skousen's revelations and history of communism.
Now, those wishing to implement communism have taken a back door approach and it is terrifying to see the progress they have made and the complacency of currently living generations.
Believe me, far more frightening a read than any Stephen King novel.
Later in the book, Skousen writes that one of communism evil goals was to present homosexuality as "normal, natural and healthy." Another thing that was absurd was the praise the author gives to J.
For example, he writes on why the above mentioned is not a legitimate cause or political system because they're based on "vicious forces of conquest...
It assumes because someone (Lenin, Stalin, etc.) or some organization calls itself socialism or communism that that is what it represents.
I read this book while sitting in Kim's ultra Liberal, ultra Socialist/Marxist loving literature professor's class.
I didn't have the urge to pick this book up until I found out that I could sit quietly in my wife's class - and discovered how tree hugging granola eating spineless yet venom spewing socialist her professor was.
And I picked up the most grating book I could find and plopped it upright on the desk so that he and everyone for 50 minutes 3 times a week could see what I was silently reading.
I blew his concentrated dramatic moments a couple times - Just By Being There!
McKay, Deseret News Oct. 18, 1952“The aim and purpose...was then and is now world socialism, which communism seeks to achieve through revolution and which socialists seek to achieve through evolution.” Pres.
An American Communist cell was told to "eliminate all good sculpture from parks and buildings, substitute shapeless, awkward and meaningless forms."*Eliminate all laws governing obscenity by calling them "censorship" and a violation of free speech and free press.*Break down cultural standards of morality be promoting pornography and obscenity in books, magazines, motion pictures, radio and TV.*Present homo-sexuality, degeneracy and promiscuity as "normal, natural, healthy."*Eliminate prayer or any phase of religious expression in the schools on ground that it violates the principle of "separation of church and state."*Support any socialist movement to give centralized control over any part of the culture-education, social agencies, welfare programs, mental health clinics,etc*Discredit the family as an institution.
Although this is just a few of Communism's goals, its apparent that they have been achieved – despite the fall of the U.S.S.R. It's clear that the increased role and expansion of government and “progressive politics” is the aftertaste of Communist infiltration forever instilled in our country's personality.
Although he could not have written of Communism's fall, I found it more interesting to study Communism through the eyes of a man scared for the future, someone who perceived Communism as the aggressive threat it was.
We must study Communism so we can recognize when those old Communist idea's come up in politics, media, and from the mouth's our of colleagues and friends.
Walking away from this book I feel like I have a much clearer idea of what communism is all about and its history.
Starting with Karl Marx, Skousen gives a thorough, concise overview of his life and mindset.
He does go into Cuba, though Castro was still in his beginning stages of rule at the time of his writing.
Throughout the book, he consistently shows the dangers of Americans working for the communists.
At the time of writing there was a lot of intelligence that was compromised and verified in court cases.The book I read was not the first printing, so some additional info was added.
A must read for anyone and everyone. This book not only gives you a history of communism and Marxism, but it also gives the reader a deep understanding of the Communist goal, to consume the whole of mankind. I think that every American citizen should read this book so as to strengthen their belief in the democratic republic that we call Freedom.
Ha! I found this piece of 1950s propaganda in the Bartlesville public library during the 1990s. It is pretty jingoistic and a product of its time.
275-288) of what individuals, families, parents, teachers, ministers, businessmen, legislators, and the press can do to "strike a blow for freedom." The last chapter gives a speech that Skousen gave, addressed to a banquet at the Washington State PTA, which is entitled "What is the Secret Weapon of Communism?" He then states that we can all combat communism/socialism/materialism by returning to the principles dictated by the Ten Commandments in the Bible.
(It was stated, but no background was given to explain.) I also would like to read in more detail about how what we (individuals, parents, teachers, legislators, press, etc.) can do can influence this communism/socialism/materialism trend that is still prevalent in society.
Then, I put off reading it.There are not words to describe how glad I am that I read this book.
It was around the time Obama was elect- uh, became president My eyes were pried wide open!Skousen gleans the most important information available to show you exactly WHO and WHAT Communists are.
Does Skousen say this in the book?
Nope, but with the understanding comes enlightenment, which will have you suddenly recognizing the effects of Communism all around you (and the Communists who are the perpetrators).This book will make you slap the next teenager you see wearing a Che Guevara t-shirt.
This was incredible. It details all the plans and evil designs of the communist movement. It is horrifying to realize how much they have already achieved and to see how our political correctness and other atheistic acceptances are inviting communism in the front door to the ruin of our wonderful country.
This should be required reading in our public schools. Revealing.
Can't believe how much we as a country have adopted the Communist philosophy. They are right on target to bring us down if we do not wake up soon and make a stand for freedom.
Excellent.
Much more fascinating than I anticipated.
I read this because I came across a statement from Ezra T.
Benson (former President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, and great patriot) that he felt every member of the Church (Mormons) should read this book...so I did!
I'm still quite surprised in writing this review how much I liked this book!
It's so good to better understand the Communist founders, the Communist philosophy and mission, and how that all impacts events today.
Even though it was written in the late 1950s, it is still important today to understand Communism.
I've always viewed that time in history as a witch-hunt of sorts, with people crying, "Communist" instead of witch.
But there really were people in high places in free nations who were trying to help the Communist cause.
It's interesting to note that many of the Communist goals of that time are in full swing in our nation now, such as: breaking apart families, replacing meaningful and beautiful art with meaningless and ugly art, and getting society to accept and promote pornography and obscenity, to name a few.
This book also offers timeless solutions to combat the weakening of our society.
Anybody who is familiar with Skousen's work in the Political field would be advised to read this first, before venturing on to the Naked Capitalist.
Skousen says it best, he wanted to cut through all the Propaganda that has been aimed at the Communist threat and get down to the facts or the Naked truth of it all.
He gives a good history of the roots of Communism, how they came to power and the tactics that they used to stay in power and a large theme in the book...how they plan to spread their ideology, mainly by revolutionary force.
There is a lot in this book that explains what we see happening in America today and it leaves me kind of scared.
I think I need to read the revised version now though.
This is an easy to read book that delves into the history of Communism and the people that pushed it.
I had no idea of the atrocities that were committed on the Russian people and the Chinese in the name of Communism (makes Hitler seem kind a tame) until the last couple months---I know I took history in school how did I miss all this.

Every American should read this book. It's a great history of Marx and his movement. Now I know why the Red Scare was such a scare. The Communist party shouldn't be allowed to exist in this country since it's stated purpose it to take away our freedoms as Americans. This isn't freedom of speech, it's treason. "Final victory can be achieved only on an international scale, and only by the combined efforts of the workers of all countries." Joseph Stalin in "Leninism" Vol 1, p. 170 (Naked Communist p. 290)
Wow. I always knew Communism was bad, but I didn't really understand what the philosophy or values were of Communism. I found this book explained these things to me in a simple way that I could understand and it also showed how Communism has influenced our history. It was fascinating, and scary. What was really scary to me is how so many people, like I was, don't understand Communism and how we accept so many of the Communist ideas as just a part of life. A very eye opening book.
Great overview of world history(I needed that!)It was written in the late 50's so the idea of communist is a bit antiquated, but nonetheless relevant I think. We don't think of communists as evil, but I wonder after reading this if we should rethink that.
If you EVER want to know how to fight communism, if you have EVER had questions about communism, if you have EVER wondered why communism is so bad READ THIS BOOK, SO HELP ME! One of Skousen's best works and a national best seller, it is one of the most cutting analyses I have seen on communism.
Skousen makes very plain the threat of communism in the United States and how previous failures to act led to so many countries falling victim to it.
Despite the tragic economic and human failures of the Soviet Union, the Eastern European communist states, Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, Castro's Cuba, North Korea, etc, many people in the US today have continued to burrow into the fabric of America with the intention of creating a similar way of life.Many people, myself included, tend to think that all there is to communism; everyone is equal and all possessions are shared equally.
A comprehensive and compelling analysis of a communist as an individual and communism as a collective.
The author also shows how a people build a free nation as seen in the political philosophy of America’s Founding Fathers.
A chapter on Free Enterprise Capitalism by proving that it is a natural system of economics because it tends to adjust automatically to human requirements.
Finally, the author ties in religion by revealing the radical differences between communism and Christianity.
The book is a highly encouraged read by confused and misplaced communists/socialists.
Upon the conclusion of this book, the reader can see in its naked form the ignorance involving communism and socialism.
Great analysis!
I thought it was very historically supported, with good references noted. I learned so much about the history of Russia and the birth of Communism as well as somewhat of the personal histories of the men and women who supported Communism and why. I loved the story of Whittaker Chamber's decision to renounce communism when he realized, as he was looking at his beautiful little girl while she tried to eat at the table, that something as intricate and lovely as this child could not have come about by "accident."
Recommended by family members and neighbors, I probably wouldn't have read this if I hadn't already read quite a few of Skousen's other works. I was not aware of Skousen's affiliation with the FBI before I read this book. I read Hoover's A Study of Communism when I finished. Influential in decisions I made earlier.
This book was an introduction to communist influence, methods of deception, ideology, and goals that set me on a path of studying International Socialism and its detrimental effects upon mankind. After reading this, I read the Communist Manifesto to better understand the revolutionary program of destruction of civilized governments planned by the Communists.
