https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428157.The_Mind_of_a_Mnemonist
The book is a case study of, a story of somebody referred to as “s” who could remember everything he’s told without effort or straining.
The visual quality of his recall was fundamental to his capacity for remembering words.
When he heard or read a word it was converted right away into a visual image that corresponded with the object the word signified for him.
Once he formed an image, which was always of a particularly vivid nature, it stabilized itself in his memory.I believe that there is a lot we can learn from that as we work on our ability to recall stuff we’re learning or trying to remember in general.
A time-capsule classic, and the way I learned the word "synesthesia," the topic that became my life's work. It's interesting that Luria focused on S's vast memory and made S"s synesthesia almost an afterthought.  The book is good reading whether one is interested in memory per se or not. It gives the flavor of early neuroscience by one of its pioneers.
Some useful tipsNever connect same colors of objects with places. No in dark places. Bigger objects are efficient in dark places.Music in Restaurants because it changes the taste of everything.You cannot eat while reading because you focus on reading.
Несмотря на то, что книга написана довольно давно. Она раскрывает подробности интереснейшей разновидности памяти. Вначале кажется, что она тоже про ейдетическую память, но на самом деле это вводная к синестезии. Из этой книги понятно откуда брались техники типа "дворец памяти"(memory palace) именно благодаря дотошному научному подходу к исследованию господина Ш.Жаль, что небольшая, было интересно увидеть целый сборник.
I loved this book. Quite a fast read. It not only discusses S.'s memory capabilities, but the synesthesia that plays such a big part in how S. remembers. Luria also discusses, with great sensitivity, the effect such a gifted memory has on S.'s personality, and explores the limitations that S. experiences as a result of the way his mind works. A fantastic read for those interested in memory, as well as in synesthesia.
This short book is Soviet psychologist A.R. Luria's case study of Mr S whose memory is so vast that he can perfectly recall long lists of items YEARS after he first remembered them.
What first strikes me is the color of someone's voice.
If , say, a person says something, I see the word; but should another person's voice break in, blurs appear.
While it's a readable case study about an one-of-a-kind memory (plus all the credit for founding a new genre for humanistic clinical history!), Professor Luria's writing and his approach, to a reader of our time, may seem plain and ordinary.
Starting in the 1920's Luria began to study "S." a subject who had a seemingly limitless capacity to memorize numbers, words, nonsense sounds, etc.
For him, sounds have distinct colors and visual imagery and the wrong music can clash with the taste of a meal.
The visual images he forms are extremely vivid and particular and he memorizes lists by encoding each item into images which he stores on the fly.
But the boundary between the visual imagery of his imagination and reality was often be nebulous and he was prone to distraction that could border on split personality.The Mind of a Mnemonist anticipates the later work of Oliver Sacks and is a short, rewarding book.
First of all, props to the translator for a wonderful job sticking to all the complex wordplay, synonyms, entendres, poetry, and phonetic explanations.
Between Hebrew, Yiddish, and Russian, the translation and footnotes were very well done.
This book has been on my to-read list since 2008 and I've FINALLY managed to find a copy earlier this year (seriously, uoft robarts didnt have it, i checked).
A lot of the information was redundant since I've read a lot about synesthetic savants over the years, but it's always good to trace it back to the source.
Having previously read and thoroughly enjoyed Moonwalking with Einstein, the Mind of a Mnemonist fell very short. It delves into painstaking granular detail of one individual case study. If readers wish to learn every single aspect of one man's perspective in the early 20th century, by all means, but if readers were hoping to gain insight on people with exceptional memory skills live and perceive the world around them, read Joshua Foer instead.
i always forget about this book. ha! it's a joke! because this book is about a guy who never forgets ANYTHING. a real guy. this book is awesome. i will never forget it. the metaphors he uses to discuss how he sees and finds his memories are so cool.now i want to read it again. it's been too long.p.s. this is a case study, not a novel.
This is one of the most thought provoking book I have ever read.
i could tell from the synopsis that this little book dealt with a medical case from the perspective of its actual researcher.
and most people said that, although it wasn't the most entertaining read in the world, it did come across as a bed-time story (or as if someone was telling you a very interesting anecdote about a very peculiar person)that just makes me wonder what type of stories those people read.
and if i wanted to read one instead of a non-fiction book, i would do so.
simply said, i was never the target audience so why waste my time reading this when i have other 500 books to read.
A un certo punto l’autore mette in bocca al dottor Stuffenbau questa considerazione inconfondibilmente spallanzanesca, tipicamente eliana:“Il ricordo”, disse Stuffenbau a madamoiselle Mimolotte, “è come una torta gelato: ogni volta che la tiri fuori dal frigo per guardarla si affloscia un pochino e quando la rimetti dentro si ricongela in una forma leggermente diversa.
Dopo cento, mille ricongelamenti le sue cuspidi di panna sono diventate dei bottoni, la sfoglia si è bagnata mille volte e ha ceduto sotto il peso delle creme, la forma di corona è perduta, i cristalli di ghiaccio hanno sgretolato la struttura, che ora somiglia a uno squallido ciambellone.
The over 90-year old story of the mnemonist Solomon Shereshevsky is both gripping and sad.
Ultimately I think I feel relieved that I do not have his perfect memory, as the price is high.
The book is structured more like a summary presentation of the results of the 30-year study of Luria than an actual book.
Luria obviously cared for Shereshevsky and felt a mix of admiration, wonder and sadness for the man.
I can understand and feel the same.
What I cannot help but wonder having finished the book is whether Solomon Shereshevsky himself felt blessed or cursed as he was.

A very detailed account of how synesthesia works, with long extracts from conversations with the patient and mnemonist.Even with insight, it's hard to imagine how someone can function without being capable of higher level (abstract) thinking.Proof that an exceptional intellect - though in this case balanced out by other serious shortcomings- with almost superhuman memory, does not ensure success in life at large.
Acīmredzot, man bija pārāk lielas ekspektācijas. Kaut arī tika solīts populārzinātnisks stāsts un tā skaitās psiholoģijas grāmata, tomēr guvu pavisam maz. Savam laikam varbūt tā bija vērtīgāka, nekā 2018. gadā.
A very easy read about a very interesting person. The examples got a bit tedious near the end and I would've liked a better description of his personality but overall pretty good.
I enjoyed reading the bits about how S. described his thought processes. I honestly felt sorry for the guy, the end was quite sad as well.
Kiinnostava kuvaus rajattoman muistin omaavasta henkilöstä.
Un libro excelente y grandes enseñanzas para psicólogos y profesionales interesados en los avatares de la memoria
Such an interesting case study! Luria does a good job of trying to present how this guy thinks, a seemingly impossible task.

A nerdy read and read for a nerdy reason.Was a follow-up to the Oliver Sacks memoir; he wrote of Luria frequently, and I thought I should read one of Luria's cases.... a short famous one.....
R. Luria writes about S, a man with a limitless memory, or at least one that couldn't be measured.
Synesthesia only deepened this ability of his, adding taste, smell, touch, and sound to his astoundingly detailed visual memories.
Then the tone gradually took on a colour one associates with twilight, the sound continuing to dazzle because of the silvery gleam it shed."Interestingly, S had a poor memory for faces and voices.
As with Dr. Luria's "opposite" book "The Man with the Shattered World" I wished there was more science, more psychology, more analysis, more brain talk interspersed with the case study reports.
terdengar menarik mungkin, tapi bagaimanapun, "penyandang" kemampuan itu memiliki keterbatasan yang seharusnya dimiliki oleh orang normal.
Buku ini tentang seseorang bernama Sheresevsky yang memiliki ingatan tak dibatasi waktu maupun jumlah, apapun, seberapapun, sampai kapan pun...
dia bisa ingat.Pertama kali tertarik baca buku ini waktu baca Mind Map book karangan Tony Buzan, disitu disebutkan bahwa mencatat berulang-ulang, atau menuliskan sesuatu di kertas, adalah metode yang digunakan Sheresevsky agar dia bisa melupakan.Di sini, dikisahkan penelitian A.
subhanallah...Sang mnemonic di buku ini, memang ingatannya super tajam, tapi dia tak bisa mengenal konsep abstrak secara keseluruhan...
jadi dia tak pernah bisa mengatakan bahwa laut yang dia lihat itu adalah laut yang sama...
describing his approach to memory and reality.The book has several problem areas, especially for a non-Russian reader:1) Many of S.'s examples of his recall mechanism depend on the specific sounds and meanings of Russian words, and the translation is clunky at best, with little creative flexibility.2) S.'s attempts to explain what he's "seeing" in his head are often unclear and confusing.3) Luria, though concerned and compassionate, is limited by both his own rationalist mind and the narrow scope of psychology of the time (1930s-60s).
He sees S.'s personal approach to the world as more extreme in some areas than it will appear to many readers, especially S.'s use of imagery.A fascinating read.
5 or 10 years later, if asked hecould still recall the exact sequence of numbers!It might seem like heaven to have a "photographic memory," more recently known as "eidetic memory." Think of how great it would be if you didn't forget stuff!
But they're basically postulating a bunch of structures at the cognitive level that may or may not exist, and couldn't be directly tested anyway.From the neuro end things look more promising.TODO: read In The Palaces of Memory, supposed to be great pop sci book that covers the work of neuroscientists seeking to uncover memory's biological substrates & mechanisms
In particular, it discusses his unique mental processes, how they help him remember things, and how they hindered other aspects of his life.Warning: "spoilers" below this point.The book begins with a description of his amazing memory, which seems to have been completely limitless.
His memory was based on his strong synesthesia [1], which allowed him to remember random numbers, syllables, or words as images in his mind.
There seemed to be no limitations to his memory capacity, so Luria became bored with that sort of thing, and began asking how he did these things, and what his methods were.S., whose name is never disclosed, was a synesthete.
He had a marvelous visual memory and saw everything in images.
S. also did not have any way to visualize vague things like ideas and concepts.
Once he became a mnemonist, he needed a better way to recall things, so he started to make a visual shorthand.In any case, this book was a quick read and quite enjoyable.
