https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/447090.Contributions_to_Philosophy
We don't even experience the distress of this abandonment of being.Heidegger reveals a new possibility, or "understanding" of being, a non-metaphysical "understanding of being available" that is available to us.Contributions is a pathway to this "other beginning", new understanding of being as the "swaying of be-ing", named "enowning".
Echo is one of the six pathways, to be enacted in the crossing.This book is written from inside the swaying of being as enowning, and outlines pathways to that new understanding.
Enowning is the name for the swaying of be-ing as we cross to the new beginning for understanding being.
Contributions is where Heidegger secures his legacy and initiates the "turning" to Being as event that defines his enigmatic later work.
This book contains loosely structured meditations on the history of Being, space and time and the "being-there" that constitutes the foundation of human reality.
But the centerpiece of the book, as much as there can be one, is his great offering to philosophy: the vision of Being as the event of appropriation where Dasein grounds a "there" as the open region, or clearing, where self-concealing beings arise.
My favorite Heidegger. What to say (What can I say?)?The leap attempted; the openning of the space beyond and yet anterir to philosophy as we know it, into that which is and is not philosophy.I need to re-read this. These words will ever remain on my tongue.
Heidegger on the cusp of greatness, necessary reading to really get into Mindfulness.
PROPRIATIONThis new translation chooses the term 'event' to translate the German concept 'Ereignis' 
Parvis Emad and Kenneth Maly's translation of Martin Heidegger's Beiträge zur Philosophie, sketches of a planned work from 1936-1938, is an erroneous approach to a fascinating topic.
The Beiträge is something like Heidegger's Philosophical Investigations, an exploratory approach to re-opening topics he addressed in Being and Time in a vastly changed framework; published only with Heidegger's cenentary in 1989, it has not yet received the serious attention it merits.
Part of the reason is this initial translation, published in 1999; Heidegger's language in the Beiträge is highly challenging but Emad and Maly's addiction to grammar-bending neologisms like "enowning" (Ereignis, literally translated as "happening") renders their text nearly unusable.
I could write a ton of books on this one, but I'm afraid that most of them will be a pain to read: I've kinda lost 'faith' in Heidegger here. Sadly, I'm beginning to see consistencies in his philosophy that are utterly dull and uninteresting to me.
If anyone knows why a second translation was made a mere 10 years after the first, and that the first wasn't merely revised. . . Anyone?
THE book.
