https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41128030-touching-spirit-bear
This gripping, graphic survival story from an award-winning writer paints an unsparing picture of one violent teen and offers a poignant testimony to the power of pain that can destroy and may also heal.عنوانها: دردسر ساز؛ راز حلقه شفا؛ نویسنده: بن میکائیلسن؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز شانزدهم ماه ژوئن سال 2016 میلادی عنوان: دردسر ساز؛ نویسنده: بن میکائیلسن؛ مترجم: پروین علیپور؛ تهران، چشمه، 1390، در 306 ص؛ شابک: 9789643627829؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی - سده 20 معنوان: راز حلقه شفا؛ نویسنده: بن میکائیلسن؛ مترجم: بهار اشراق؛ تهران، قطره، 1390، در 220 ص؛ شابک: 9786001194597؛ داستان پسر سفیدپوست بزهکاری، به نام: «کول»، است، که به دوست خویش آسیب جدی وارد می‌کند، و بر اساس قانون، به مجازات سختی محکوم می‌شود.
he also thinks he is going to swim off the island and escape, so he burns all the food and shelter and clothing he has been left, and tries to swim away.anyone think this is a good idea?this kid does some incredibly stupid things because of his rage.
but after all the cool bloody stuff, the end (read: second half) got a little more touchy-feely than i generally like.
it's like house which is really good when it has blood coming out of people's eyes and stuff, but very bad whenever characters have to have any emotional backstory.
One student enjoyed the book so much that she read ahead and finished it and then finished the second book, all by the time the class finished the first book.
I enjoyed this book enough that I want to read the second book this summer :)Cole, the main character had a really tough childhood.
Being sent to a remote Island in Alaska was a Native American tradition that provided healing for people in criminal situations.
Throughout the book Cole grew and changed, while living on his own in Alaska.
I can't wait to read the second book!
This was a brilliant book by Ben Mikaelson. TOUCHING SPIRIT BEAR reads like an intelligent adult novel. I loved this story of Native American wisdom and a lost boy trying to find his way.
Cole, a very generic juvenile delinquent from a very generic abusive family, is generically filled with rage and lies; he appears on course for a life perpetually in and out of prison, but then he gets drawn into the alternative Circle Justice system.
Cole screws up immediately, burns his cabin down and gets himself mauled by a spirit bear (a colour phase of black bear, although the mauling seems cribbed from grizzly attacks.) Barely escaping death and badly injured, he's given a second chance and in short order is disgorging his own folksy wisdom, indistinguishable in tone from the previous folksy wisdom.
This is a phenomenal book.
Through out the year almost all of my kids read it and usually in a day or two.
The story tells of a boy, Cole, who has an extremely misguided life due to his family situation.
After beating a kid close to death he is sent to live on an island by himself for a year trying to heal his anger.
The book is intense and a bit graphic in Chapter 8 when he encounters a spirit bear.
The books sheds great light into the healing process of anger and finding the will to control one's self.
They don't just work with the courts to banish young offenders to remote islands and be all, "Well, I'll be back in a few weeks to see if you're still alive!
See ya, kid!" The "magical wise First Nations elder" trope is really, really problematic, especially when the author doesn't take the time to accurately represent FN culture.
I can't say I needed to read a description of what it's like to eat a live mouse.
They read, on average, at around a Grade 5 level, so this book is challenging for some of them.
I'm that bad instructor who didn't finish reading the book before using it in a course!
Honestly, they tried to make Cole seem like a better person throughout the book, but it didn't work for me.
And since Cole was the only character in it at least half the time, this made me not like that book.
Sure, it was a huge part of the story, but we maybe read about it's appearance it five times, and the times we 'saw' it, the bear just walked away a couple of seconds later.
It would not happen where someone almost kills someone and they send them to an island.
I honestly don't think Cole should've gotten a second chance right there, especially since he almost killed Peter.
I love this book.
No matter how many times I read it, I enjoy it each time.
Cole is such a well-written character, and all that he goes through is incredible.
This was the first year I actually got to teach the book and I'm glad.
The students found his experiences horrific, and we were able to have many great discussions on Cole, his situation, and the book itself.
There is a lot to be learned from this book, whether you're the bully or the victim, and I think this book should be read by all students, no matter what their background.
This book is about a juvenile boy named Cole.
He gets sent to a island with nothing but a shelter and some clothes and other supplies.
The first day he burns down the shelter.
After days he sees the Spirit bear and gets mauled (he deserved it).
(There’s more I just hate spoilers).This book was horrible.
I know you weren’t supposed to like Cole (and I didn’t) I despised him.
This book was boring.
My favorite part is when he got mauled by the bear.
If you do the this book is PERFECT for you.
I love this book! Theres a lot you can learn from it. Although I admit theres a lot of wierd things in it. but it helped me realize it was important to control my temper. This is a book that people with anger problems should read.
Touching Spirit Bear is a novel geared towards ten year olds.
To avoid jail after brutally assaulting a boy, he joins Circle Justice, a group dedicated to helping criminals repent and change.
He is mauled by the Bear after Cole attempts to kill it, and lies on the island alone until some members of Circle Justice come to check on him.
Guided by Edwin and Garvey, two “mentors” to him, he returns to the island on a quest to once again see the Spirit Bear.
I think this book was amazing and life changing This book taught me anger is answer to problem
This story weaves some Native American mythology and customs into the troubled life of teen Cole Matthews. Great descriptions and meaningful changes in the protagonist.
Instead of jail time or being send to a special home, Cole is offered Circle Justice: a system based on Native American traditions that attempts to provide healing for the criminal offender.
Cole's feeling of the Healing Circle, based on Native American traditions, never seemed to have an impact on Cole and the changes that he made in the end.
If Cole Matthews had never been mauled by the bear, he never would have changed.So I questioned, what was the point of bringing in the "Native American" element into this story?
This book was very slow at the start.
It is about Cole Matthews, a juvenile delinquent, who smashes Peter’s head into the cement.
He goes to court.
They send him to an island.
There, Cole is mauled by the Spirit Bear, a mystical creature.
Cole is rescued and flown to a Minneapolis hospital.
After rehab, he is given a second shot at the island.
He faces his problems head on and invites Peter to the island.
This story was okay.
I would not have finished if it wasn’t a class book.
I recommend this to any adult readers that love survival stories!
Totally a guy book!
Based on the Justice Circles performed by the natives in Alaska, this story involves a young man named Cole.
His life is headed south when he violently beats up another young man in a brutal manner.
It is in this book the native Justice Circle teaches Cole how to cope with the hurt inside that pushed him to hate, and through the mystical Spirit Bear, he comes to terms with who he is and learns some valuable lessons.
Because of the graphic nature of the book, more mature audiences should be encouraged to read.
Cole is given a chance in "Circle Justice" in which he lives in isolation on an Alaskan island for one year.
Even so, the Circle Justice decides to give Cole a second chance on the island.
This time, though, Cole is prepared for change.
Eventually, Peter is invited to stay on the island, where they eventually become friends.I think the authors purpose for writing this book was to entertain, but to teach a lesson in the process.
I think the lesson is that anger cannot be completely gotten rid of, but you should still try to change and fix the mistakes you have made.
Ben Mikaelsens novel Touching Spirit Bear is about a 15 year old boy named Cole. Cole is always angry, at his parents, at other people, and about how much he hates his life. He beats up one of his classmates, a boy named Peter, and as a result of this beating, Peter has permanent damage. In an attempt to avoid jail, Cole goes through a program called Circle Justice, which focuses on helping kids instead of sending them to jail. He is sent to an island in Alaska, completely on his own. This is to
Ben Mikaelsen´s novel Touching Spirit Bear is about a 15 year old boy named Cole.
He beats up one of his classmates, a boy named Peter, and as a result of this beating, Peter has permanent damage.
In an attempt to avoid jail, Cole goes through a program called Circle Justice, which focuses on helping kids instead of sending them to jail.
This is to try and help him learn to control his anger.
One theme suggested in the book is everyone has anger, but you must learn to control it.
I personally really liked this book.
I wasn’t very fond of Touching Spirit Bear. It kept changing what was happening and it was weird. This book was a young adult book. I wouldn’t recommend this book to anyone. It had good description but it could have been better. We had to read the book for school and most of my friends didn’t like the book.
It was an interesting book.
It was scary.
This book is pretty good so far it is about a boy named cole who is mad at the world and blames everything on everyone else
I loved this story and can't wait to share it with my students this year! I will also find my boys from last year who struggled to find something "good" to read and demand they read this!
New York: Harper Trophy.Why the book was chosenI liked the title, Touching Spirit Bear; it got my attention.
I sure would like to know how a"spirit bear" helped a boy with his troubles.Summary/Overview of the bookCole Matthews was a typical teenager except that Cole carried a violent rage.
As analternative to a jail term, Cole is offered a chance to take responsibilty for his assault on Peter.Cole wants to con everyone and thinks only of getting away with his crime by running away fromhis place of banishment which was determined by the Justice Circle.
Cole Matthews thinks he can take on the bear.
However, It is only after he gets mauled close to death by a mysterious bear that he begins accept responsibility for his actions and change for the better.
In this book Ben Mikaelsen was trying to show how people can change and their rehabilitation process, and how you can show this.
His main point was how it is important to take responsibility for your actions, and in the End, Cole has learned from, and respects, those who are trying to help him.
I found this book interesting, however, I found that some of the abstract ways Garvey was trying to teach Cole a lesson were ridiculous.
Throughout the book I had times where I would hate Cole, but over time I started to appreciate the character.
Cole was a kid who wanted everyone to fear him, he was always angry.
Touching Spirit Bear isn't a 5 star because at times I would find myself getting bored, but when I got to the middle I gained interest.I do recommend this book to 10+ because of its vivid details and actions.
This is good for kids that want to read a book that doesn't have the "perfect" character.
If you like character development and a lot of actions and setting this book is right for you.
This book was full of surprises, it made me hate Cole, then feel sorry for him.
I would recommend this book for anyone who has a interest in survival and definitely not someone who can't handle dead animals and bloody, gory stuff.
Touching Spirit Bear really made me open up to nature and wildlife it was a great story of Cole getting banished to an Island after beating up Peter in a empty parking lot.
Cole's story of anger and forgiveness was just wonderful, I would have to say that the details were really what kept me interested if they weren't included I might not have wanted to keep reading.
Touching Spirit Bear is an amazing book about a boy trying to find himself in the wild. There are a bunch of themes of Touching Spirit Bear, but there is just one that fits it the best. It is that actions have consequences. This relates to the story because when Cole beat up a boy, he got sent to an isolated island. Also when he tried to kill the Spirit Bear, the bear attacked him. This shows that actions do have consequences, even in real life scenarios.
کتاب نوجوانان، نکات خوبی داره و کلا کشش داره ولی یه ایرادهای اساسی هم داره
