https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/525006.The_Weapon_Makers
Oh gosh, this was so nearly 5 stars, around a 4.4 ⭐ I suppose. The book commences where The Weapon Shops of Isher left off and we are thrown straight away into the intricacies of a “war between” the weapon shops and the Empress. It is space opera at its best especially when you throw (view spoiler)[ in an interstellar drive, telepathic twins and an alien spider race (hide spoiler)]Both this book and its predecessor are relatively short which is such a shame as the storyline is excellent and the
It is space opera at its best especially when you throw (view spoiler)[ in an interstellar drive, telepathic twins and an alien spider race  (hide spoiler)]Both this book and its predecessor are relatively short which is such a shame as the storyline is excellent and the main characters are enthralling.
I think it is this relative shortness that stops me giving it 5 stars.
Hmm the 3 books of Null A ???
Now what vV books do I have ????
You just have to love alien spiders.(Read this gosh knows how many years ago. I need to scour the used book store and get reacquainted.)
A. E. Van Vogt was a science fiction writer who dealt with BIG ISSUES in his works. He was not so good with creating real human characters; his words do not soar. Here, we have a book that features the Weapon Makers as a check on the empire. The balance between the two forces prevents the empire from overwhelming human freedom. Here, we see relations among several key characters, the Empress Innelda, Captain Hedrock, Prince del Curtin.
My husband has raved about the Weapon Shops books for decades.
Van Vogt wrote what I consider to be one of the best science fiction short stories I've ever read ("A Can of Paint"), so I had high expectations of this novel.
An empire whose absolute power spans the solar system is kept in check by the existence of the Weapon Shops, purveyors of irresistible energy weapons that are tuned to their owners and can be fired only in self defense.
Robert Hedrock is not just any man, but an immortal, with intimate relationships to both centers of power.
I first read " The Weapon Shop of Isher", found it typically "van-weird" a few years ago and have finally got to the sequel... Even "van- weirderer". But that is why I love to read van! For the weirdness. This does not disappoint. It's weird. And I loved it-but found it hard to accept as normal scifi - cause it's not.The spider thing was very cool.
Our protagonist is Robert Hedrock, whom the Empress tries to assassinate and then whom the Weapon Makers rescue...only to put him on trial for sharing their secrets with the Empress.
Several things could have been the central crux of the book:- Hedrock's immortality, concealed by clever diguises and alibis- conflict between the Empire, the Weapon Shops and Hedrock- Spider creatures evaluating humanity (e.g. telepathic bond between twins)- Conflict with other star systems because of the interstellar drive...but the book doesn't focus on any one of them; it tries to focus on all of them.
Society has changed, and through genetic manipulation, the central character headlock is immortal.
He cares about society and wants to make it better.
So, he executes a long range plan to make society better.
His plan stretches over hundreds of years.
He’s immortal.Something I loved about this book is all the technology the author used to flesh out the story.
Everything from matter transmitters to warp drive.
From a science fiction historical perspective...
Keep in mind this is 1943 when it was published.
I think thats pretty awesome of van Vogt and I'm going to make sure I read all his stories.Old School Sci-Fi Nut!
Really odd book, kind of loses the plot a bit at the end, but up to that point is at least interesting.
Van Vogt originally serialized The Weapon Makers for Astounding Science Fiction in 1943.
The criticism was unjust, and Van Vogt became the 14th Grand Master of Science Fiction Writers Association - a laurel justly deserved.
Van Vogt continually introduces new players to further complicate the story - right up to the very end of the novel when its fulfillment ends in a surprising, stunning, yet wholly satisfying way.
Purists may decry his use of new creations to resolve seemingly impossible situations, but Van Vogt uses these methods to sustain interest and to propel his plots.
Mi primera incursión en el mundo de A.E. Van Vogt me ha dejado un poco a medias. La trama política y de palacio me ha interesado más bien poco. Por contra me he quedado con ganas de más en lo referente a otros aspectos mucho más importantes que el autor desarrolla con demasiada brevedad. Quizás el segundo libro me aclare algo pero lo cierto es que este volumen me ha dejado un cierto regusto amargo y una sensación de vacío. Me ha entretenido y punto. Por ello le doy tres estrellas peladas.
The concept isn't really new; the bones have been picked clean in dozens of other books. Maybe it was good once but I've seen too much of it to get worked up over.
Conclusion of the Isher stories.
I'm sorry to say that A.E. van Vogt's "The Weapon Makers" is not a very good sequel to his "The Weapon Shops of Isher." The first half of the book is just as good as the previous book.
But, once the protagonist launches himself into space, the book just turns silly.
And, even worse than that, the actions and personalities of everyone in the book just turn silly.
So, I'm sorry to say that I have to rate the book at a Pretty Bad 2 stars out of 5.The two novels in A.E. van Vogt's "Isher" series are:1.
Добре де, защо се издава направо втора книга от поредица?
Дори първата да не е била някакво невероятно фантастично преживяване, не е ли редно читателят сам да си прецени?„Оръжейните майстори” е доста типичен за автора роман.
Ван Вогг ни хвърля направо в дълбок, изцяло обмислен и изграден свят, стъпил на няколко допуска, в случая, техническо развитие, деспотична монархия и Оръжейните магазини, коитопревъзхождат империята технически и действат като балансиращо звено за обикновените хора, произвеждайки достъпни за всеки оръжия, стрелящи само при самозащита.
На целия този фон имаме изпълнено с динамика приключение с доста обрати и нездравословно смели решения.Много любим автор, отдавна изместил Кларк от челната ми тройка класически фантасти.
Another fun cosmic romp, where the House of Isher and the Weapon Shops must be saved from themselves while simultaneously kept from knowing that an immortal superman is watching them....
when he finds that seemingly all-powerful aliens are watching HIM.
And the trouble with aliens is...
they're alien.
I again thought of John C.
Wright's essays...
in another, he takes up the common wisdom that in the Bad Old Days SF was bereft of Strong Female Characters.
Is the Empress Isher to be dismissed as "weak" because she does not take down a dozen Weapon Shop guards in personal combat, or immediately jump into bed with Hedrock?
1981 grade A2009 grade B+Series book WS1The writing style is a bit out of date. The content is a bit abstract. All of it is mainly a factor of the age of the novel - the first copyright is 1943 I think. I still consider it a classic must read novel and the sequel (Weapon Shops Of Isher) is even better.(Note - my edition is Pocket 82267-5, 190 pages, First Pocket Books printing February 1979. Condition estimated at "Good." It is not in the list of editions and I don't feel like wading through Goodreads problematic edition editing process.)
Come nelle «Cronache della Galassia» di un altro gigante della f.s., Isaac Asimov, anche in questo romanzo di Van Vogt il vero protagonista è il cosmo: avventure, viaggi, congiure, battaglie, tutto ha dimensioni sovrumane, tutto si svolge sullo sfondo smisurato e strabiliante dell'universo. E' la fantascienza epica al suo livello migliore, una saga del meraviglioso che dà al lettore il senso dell'inesauribile ricchezza dell'universo.
One Empire rules Earth and as a counter-balance the neutral Weapons Shops try to make sure the government doesn't get *too* oppressive. Someone figures out intersteller drive and oddly this shifts the balance of power. Our Hero must restore the balance and handle first contact. This reads like one of those classic spy novels like The Thirty-Nine Steps set in an undefined future.
Cool bookThere are lots of neat gadgets. There is an interesting relationship between the House of Isher (the monarchy) and the Weapon Shops (sort of a check and balance).There is a lot of good stuff in the book but it should have been more fleshed out.It's old school sci-fi. It's not bogged down in technical details explaining how every little piece of technology works.
I was overjoyed to find my old copy of this at parents house this weekend after thinking it lost for 15 years. It wasn't exactly what i remembered, but still, a great story. For having been written in 1943, it hardly shows it's age and fully embraces a future with such advanced technology, it bears little resemblance to today. Looking forward to finding more van Vogt.
Set six years after "The Weapon Shops of Isher", this is story of how the immortal man behind the weapon shops manipulates both the weapon shops council and the Empress, to ensure that Isher society remains stable in the face of the development of a star ship drive and a possible attack by alien invaders.
Classic Science Fiction at its best. The Weapon Makers was originally published in 1946 and may seem a little dated now, but this is a classic story of the battle between the immortal Hedrock and Empress Innelda over the Weapons Shops and "The Right to Buy Weapons is the Right to Be Free."
This story takes place aprox. 7 years after the Weapons Shops of Isher. I again give 4 rather than 5 simply because it's not quite as readable as some by Van Vogt.
Me costó mucho trabajo terminarlo, me parecía algo lenta la narración y no acabe de agarrarle el feeling. El final, sin embargo, es bastante bueno.
Weapon makers Isher book 2The super man concept taken to the nth degree. Finale is a little contrived but everybody loves happy endings, well almost everybody.
Interesting ideas that impacted me greatly when a teenager but not so much later
Pure classic Sci-Fi, enjoyed the story. I love the Weapon Shops of Isher books.
Pure lurid colored, comic book van Vogt. Shouldn't be a surprise, that's mostly what he does. Funny how he can occasionally pull something together that goes beyond that.
Wonderful book, read it at least 3 times. Hedrock Rocks!
Oh, boy! When I was 11 the book was so cool! Today it is an avalanche of stupidity. From the Weapon shops, there is a clear upgrade in ideas and somehow the text is less dated, but only a bit.
