https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64405.The_Stainless_Steel_Rat_Saves_the_World
Within the pantheon of endearing, morally-deficient scamps and scoundrels, James “Slippery Jim” Bolivar DiGriz (aka the Stainless Steel Rat) is up there with Bugs Bunny…except not quite so nasty.  Jim is one of those characters you just want to hang out with and he's always good for a few laughs and an elevated level of happy. This series is your basic literary pick me up. For those unfamiliar with the world of the Stainless Steel Rat series, allow me to brazenly pimp out my previous review of b
PLOT SUMMARY:In his latest escapade, Jim is called upon to pretty much save the universe from a group of time traveling criminal butt stains who’ve traveled into Earth’s distant past (the 1970’s) to wipe out the Special Core as a prelude to taking over the future (circa.
free will/cause-effect conundrum loop and I thought he did an admirable job not allowing it to overly distract from the story.This is certainly the wackiest of the Stainless Steel Rats’ adventures I have read so far and it was also my least favorite.
Slippery Jim diGriz is getting told off by his boss, Inskipp, for stealing while on a previous mission for the Special Corps.
He isn't the first either, a number of people are disappearing from Special Corps headquarters.
It did feel like he was still enjoying it more than me by the end of the book though.The ending gets a little silly, with lots of people crossing lots of time-lines and creating all sorts of paradoxes left, right and centre.
Synopsis:"Someone was tampering with time, altering the past to eliminate the present, fading people out of existence into a timeless limbo. One of the victims was Angelina, the wife of James de Griz, better known as the Stainless Steel Rat."My thoughts:Another adventure of one of my favourite sociopaths. Well before there was Dexter, there was Slippery Jim DiGriz. He is completely incapable of being straight forward, even with his beloved Angelina, the reformed psychopath. As per usual, Jim &am
One of the victims was Angelina, the wife of James de Griz, better known as the Stainless Steel Rat."My thoughts:Another adventure of one of my favourite sociopaths.
While using the opportunity to help himself to expensive cigars, Jim also determines that some criminal mastermind has relocated to the past in order to change the present and Jim's world is disintegrating as a result.Now Slippery Jim is very fond of his life, so he allows the company scientist to fling him back in time 20,000 years to the ancient date of 1975, to a place called Dirt or Earth or something.
Originally posted on SpecFic Junkie.After frustration with other time travel books (think Blackout/All Clear) I'm reminded that time travel stories can be fun.
Granted, The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World is pointing out how ridiculous time travel stories can be half the time...
Naturally, it takes some work, but they eventually get it done.The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World had never been one of my favorite Stainless Steel Rat books, and looking back, I think I can sort of see why.
My motivation for trying this one was driven partly by it being a cheap used copy, and partly by recently reading and liking Make Room!
This is the third installment of the life and times of Slippery Jim diGriz, a master thief in the far-flung future who is recruited by Special Corps, an intergalactic law enforcement agency that recruits criminals like him.
And I don’t know how it compares to other books in the series – maybe this wasn’t a good one to start out with.
I’d like to try more Harrison, but I’ll skip the other SSR books for now.
Slippery Jim is back, and this time he saves the world from a time traveller named "He".
After Special Corps employees begin rapidly disappearing, Jim is sent back to 1975 earth, translated "dirt", to stop "He" from conceiving his evil plan to destroy Jim's planet.
Jim is thus sent on a wild goose chase, full of time loopholes and paradoxes, to track "He" through time - eventually catching "He" in Napoleanic France, in time to prevent Napolean (which is actually "He") from winning the war against the British.
As all the Stainless Steel Rat books, this is witty, satrical and a whole lot of fun to read.
Two of my favorite genres - time travel and the Stainless Steel Rat. No explanation of why characters just "fade out" at the beginning of the story, and clearly no "parallel dimensions" hypothesis, but good fun regardless. As an aside, some good clean fun poked at 1970s Earth, the US in particular.
Another in the stainless steel rat books. They are all quick reads with alot of humor in them. The stories remain fresh and new. Very recommended, especially to teen readers or someone new to SiFi
While I can see how this series has some lasting appeal, this particular book isn't that great.It's a mildly inventive time travel story, with a hero that shifts so violently between progressive and regressive (a 40-year-old sci-fi book with some issues about women?
The character is often deliberately made to be a bit of a bumbling fool, but then at times he just is one, because 60s sci-fi author attitudes, and it's all a bit rubbish.The writing is decent, sometimes quite good but at other times a bit of a disaster.
This was my first encounter with The Stainless Steel Rat and it remains my favourite entry in the series.
In this one, Mr Harrison retreads some plot ideas from his even funnier novel The Technicolor Time Machine but spins them with some inimitable Stainless Steel Rat action.
This was a glorious, amazing read when I was 14 and it's still a heap of fun nearly 35 years later.
The mind bending timey-wimey shenanigans feel like a deus ex machina until you start to look closely at the plot when they become part of a clockwork puzzle designed by Picasso and built by M.
S. Johnson.Glorious, nostalgic fun.
It's taken me some time to understand that the entire Stainless Steel Rat series was written at a time when a lot of the tropes we have in sci fi weren't common to the genre. In fact, it may have been one of the inspirations for it. There was a distinct lack of the same feeling of "The hero always win through a feat of daring do" and more of a feeling of "holy crap, he got lucky". I enjoyed it thoroughly as a time travel nerd.
3.5
This book is terrific,amazing and well edited.
it's not exactly the swashbuckling galactic adventure that I expected after reading the other stainless steel rat books. but Jim is snarky and clever and fun. definitely worth the read.
Can't even try to follow time travel stories, but it remains light, charming fare.
James “Slippery Jim” diGriz, aka “The Stainless Steel Rat,” was one of Harry Harrison’s most beloved characters.
Maybe it’s not too late!)What I most enjoy about these adventures is that, as perfect as Jim’s spying and thieving skills are, he often needs help from elsewhere.
In this volume, we only see the formidable Angelina as potential help, but James and Bolivar (Jim’s sons) are growing up and I know from later books in the series that they provide much needed assistance.
And, since the title gives away the final result, let me just assure you that Jim and family are as incorrigible and essentially recidivist as always.
I suppose, another reason could be that this type of amusing time travel adventure has since been done better on the movie screen, with Back to The Future and Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure being the first two films that come to mind.One thing I did enjoy seeing in the book, was Jim’s attempt to adjust to life in 1975 on the strange planet of Dirt (aka Earth).
Yes, this type of time travel adventure has been done better, but Slippery Jim diGriz is still probably the main selling point of the novel.
As a read, it’s better than that makes it sound, being seasoned with goodness and Harrison’s customary ability to entertain but it misses a trick or two along the way and uses one familiar trick once too often.The latter amounts to having Mrs Rat, Angelina, show up out of the space-time blue and rescue our hero when all seems lost.
The evil villain who calls himself “He” has been using time travel to try to rid the world of the Special Corp (including Jim and Angelina) by eliminating them before they were even born.
Before the adventure is over, Jim ends up fighting He-possessed Napoleon Bonaparte who has occupied London (the history is a little different in He’s time warp).Don’t worry about the mind-boggling impossibilities and plot holes here — just go along for the ride and, if you can, do it in audio.
Even when the plot gets a little slow for a few minutes, Gigante carries it along with his fabulous narration.
Cuando compre este libro no esperaba encontrarme con que en definitiva, solo puede ser llamado un “diamante en bruto”.
Pero, “Oh sopresa!”, la historia toma una un giro inesperado y nuestro personaje tiene que viajar al pasado para salvar el futuro.Muchas veces uno piensa que ya conoce todos los artefactos que emplea la ciencia ficcion y, personalmente, me resulta muy placentero cuando encuentro un autor que me sorprende gratamente con su historia.
La verdad es que no esperaba que el libro tuviera tanntos conceptos “novedosos” de ciencia ficcion.
He's the rat, and the stainless steel is the type needed in this space age.The plot follows sort of a pattern of Jim explaining what he's going to do, and what he expects will happen.
Sometimes Jim holds back some of his plan, so that the reader doesn't know the outcome ahead of time.There is a lot of action, the characters aren't very deep, even Jim seems to be straight from a 1940's or 50's Private Eye novel, with the slight twist that he's not law abiding and he's placed in a future galactic civilization.
The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World is a fun book to read.
But at least he doesn’t believe in killing, unlike his wife, Angelina, the ex-pirate.
Jim never seems to be out of trouble and always finds himself in situations where I have no idea how he can possible survive.
But “Slippery Jim”, aptly named, always finds a way out of them, although he doesn’t always come out unscathed.
I highly recommend The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World for a fast and fun thrill ride of a read.I rated this book a 9 out of 10.
This time Harry Harrison's got Jim DeGriz being shot back through time, sent to the long-gone planet Earth, in order to stop some nefarious wrong-doers from erasing the Special Corps team centuries before their birth.It's a cool concept, with the usual fast pace, action scenes every other chapter, and the Rat's normal amount of humor.
I'd like to see how Jim reacts to different elements of 1975 New York, but the city is barely on display, and before you know it, he's whisked off to England to fight against Napoleon's army.
Swashbuckling adventurer, thief, and all-around anti-hero travels into the past and the future(occasionally against his will) to save his planet, his woman, and ALL TIME ITSELF.Not really my thing.
It's obviously all meant in fun, but every time Jim gets himself out of trouble by pulling out yet another futuristic high-tech toy that he never informed the reader about, well it all gets a little stale.
The time-travel wrap-up is cute for about a page, but lets face it, if you've seen "Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure", then nothing here is really going to blow your mind.
SciFi humor. I quite enjoyed the first five books or so, but in the end the laughter starts wearing thin. I gave up after “The Stainless Steel Rat Goes to Hell”. Those I have read are: The Stainless Steel Rat The Stainless Steel Rat’s Revenge The Stainless Steel Rat Saves the World The Stainless Steel Rat Wants You The Stainless Steel Rat for President A Stainless Steel Rat is Born The Stainless Steel Rat Gets Drafted The Stainless Steel Rat Goes to Hellhttp://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=817
This time the Stainless Steel Rat finds himself on a quest through time and space to stop a mad villain from rewriting history as the universe knows it. Plot holes are in abundance, including a glaring part where the primary antagonist allows our hero to escape via his arrogance and/or stupidity, but that seems okay for this easy-going, teenager-oriented space adventure. Very similar to the other novels with its lighthearted humor, action-packed story, and fast pacing.
I gave this 5 stars because when I was reading it and realized it was a time travel book I groaned. I HATE time travel, because it's tedious and messes up the past and I only decided to finish it because I didn't have any more new audio books on my MP3 player and was stuck at work for 8 hours. (I do data entry and listen to books while I work to keep my sanity) I really enjoyed this book. It was fun, interesting, humorous, and dealt with the entire issue I have with time travel.
And so ends yet another adventure for slippery Jim. This time, he goes back to old earth and generally trots around in time, rather than space. all quite paradoxical and ludicrous, but quite unsurprising. We don't know much about Jim's early life yet, so his blase assurances that this is the first time he's felt the true hand of fear and so forth may be a wee bit hollow. Still, with the kids added into the mix the adventures are surely to increase in sarcastic banter, if nothing else.
It wasn't good. Time travel almost always a bad idea, this was no exception. The plot and the main character suffered greatly. The title promises worldsaving, which is epic. Instead it was drunk stumbling upon stuff in the dark and being happy at the end that we managed to stay alive. And while you could look over the 2D characters in the first and the second novell, now it is geting on your nerves, why cant they be a little more belivable?
I'm a big fan of the Stainless Steel Rat series. The first person adventures of a criminal in a world where there are no crimes. They're fun to read and not to be taken to seriously.This volume takes our 'hero' back in time. First to 1975 and then to 1805, chasing after He, the enemy who is writing the Corp out of existence. All Jimi Di Griz wants is to get back to his wife, the murderous Angelina. The resolution is ridiculous, the ride fun, an enjoyable afternoon was had by all.
