https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125424.The_Quiet_Room
Obviously, Lori Schiller was extremely lucky to have to the emotional and financial support she needed to forge a life where, in her words, “it is I who am in control of my illness and not the other way around.” The fact that she was able to find a medication her brain responded to was another stroke of luck.
It would be easy to draw the false conclusion that mentally ill people who haven't been as fortunate as Lori have therefore “failed," when the reality is that we as a society have failed them.
I wish schizophrenia were fiction.
This book tells many different viewpoints: The schizophrenic patient herself, her doctors, and her family.
I got to a sentence, written by Lori's mother, that finally made me feel less alone: "Especially when the staff member was new, I just wanted to scream: "I've been doing this for years, don't you understand.
I know all this better than you do." Reading Lori Schiller's story did more than let me know that there are other schizophrenics out there, and there are other tormented families going through the same thing (which is what I thought I was looking for)...it actually helped me understand my afflicted family member more.
Lori's book gave me a much needed glimpse into the mind of one afflicted by schizophrenia.
This was Lori Schiller's story, as chronicled in her multiple-perspective memoir.What The Bell Jar wasn't, this book was -- a real inside look at mental illness, a clear picture complete with the perspectives of not only the sufferer but her family, friends, and psychiatrist.
For the first time, I felt like I might understand (if it's possible to ever truly understand) what it really feels like to hear those voices and have them take over your life; how classic schizophrenic symptoms like detachment from other people and bizarre self-destructive behavior develop from the inside; and most importantly, how someone who seems perfectly healthy and functional can suddenly manifest this disease, frightening everyone around them but most of all themselves.
As someone who hopes to work with individuals with mental illness, I unearthed many tidbits that are useful for clinical practice-- from how the quiet room served as a blank white canvas onto which she sprayed her internal chaos onto, exacerbating the terror, to how the nonchalant attitude of one therapist helped her unravel her unconscious.
I like that it shifted perspectives with each chapter, introducing dialogue from the patient's parents, brothers, friends, and therapist.
So, if one delves into the novel hoping to learn something and gain different perspectives on a largely misunderstood mental illness, one will not be disappointed.
The Quiet Room: A Journey Out of the Torment of Madness is an empowering and thought-provoking read that chronicles one woman's experience with schizophrenia.
In my opinion, this book is a must read for medical professionals because as opposed to pharmacology and neuroscience, in the past, psychiatrists studied personal patient accounts to understand how mental illness works.
After all, it was the medical professionals who tried to understand Schiller as a whole person who existed outside of her illness that helped her the most.
Overcoming any type of illness is a long journey, and like Schiller, you might find yourself feeling behind.
This was a poorly written book.
I got so tired of hearing from her family, who in multiple chapters kept repeating over and over how this illness stole their daughter away from their perfect upper middle class life.
I think the book being written by two people, and making such heavy use of writing and words that originally belonged to others, contributed to its mediocre quality.
The late parts of the book are better, because she really gets involved in treatment and we gain some real insight into her condition.
Its also a comforting story, and useful for people suffering from schizophrenia, an illness that can be so hopeless and that many consider untreatable.
It’s no secret I like memoirs by people who have mental illness, but The Quiet Room goes deep.
I liked that it is addressed there is no cure, you will always have your mental illness, so the best people can do is fight the symptoms so they can live their life.
I think many people dismiss lesser disorders as being something that can be stopped and cured, that a person isn’t trying hard enough, but this book shuts that down and explains how it actually works.
Her experiences at hospitals vary, some want to cure her and get her out to have a high turn over rate, but this doesn’t work for her.
A great book and wonderful advocation for those suffering from mental health disorders. Hearing a first account story of a woman who suffers from schizophrenia inspires me and my work with clients in the mental health profession. Thanks for sharing your story Lori.
Unfortunately, the author has schizo-affective disorder while my sister is paranoid-schizophrenic and it is obvious from the early part of the book (I am about 1/2 through) that there are significant differences.
Are they the voices of people she knows?
My sister hears people calling to her because they are trapped in locked storage containers, trunks of cars and other places.
She does talk about her voices more in the second half and it gets more into her head about what it is like to have schizo-affective disorder.
This is a true story of the authors journey through and with schizophrenia.
I loved the authors writing and how she was able to take me into her world.
How it has a sudden onset in the late teens and destroys all connections to the outside world.
Voices inside one's head become more real than outside voices.
I was truly horrified at many of the methods used, one of which was called "the quiet room." A heartfelt thank you to the author for her courage in writing such a deeply personal account.
Kitabı okurken sürekli olarak acaba gerçekten gerçek mi diye düşünüp durdum.
Fakat sonuç olarak kitapta yaşananlar gerçek bile olmasa kitabın işinin ehli, uzman biri tarafından yazıldığı belli.
Çünkü kitapta geçen bilgileri ya yaşamış biri yada uzman bir psikiyatrist bilebilir.
Bu yüzden yazılmış olan şeyler büyük ihtimalle gerçek.Kitapta yazar Lori Schiller 17 yaşında kapıldığı şizofreni hastalığının derinlerine inip bu hastalıktan nasıl kurtulduğunu ayrıntısıyla anlatıyor.
Fakat daha sonra derin bir depresyonun içine çekilip intihar etmeye kalktığında onu hastaneye yatırıyorlar.
Şizofreni hastalığına karşı büyük bir merakı olan biri olarak bu kitabı elime aldığımda çok heyecanlandım ve okuyup bitirdiğimde pişman olmadım.
Sonuç olarak okumanız için tavsiye edebileceğim bir eser.
This doesn't glamorize mental illness, like some literature tends to do.
Instead it reads almost like a documentary.
Anyone dealing with a mental illness knows that no one does it alone.
I think anyone dealing with a mental illness would glean some comfort by association, that no matter where you are in life, in treatment, there is hope, and give some insight to what it is like for the people around you.As much as I would like to keep this book, I want to donate it, book it forward.
I liked how it was a true story and gave an accurate depiction of someone who lives with schizophrenia.
Throughout the story, it had to be told from different points of view like her mother, father, and friend.
I never could have imagined what people with schizophrenia go through on a daily basis.
A lot of times I even judged the people I heard about on the news who were suspected to have schizophrenia.
Overall, this book was very well written and gave me a lot of different perspectives on either knowing someone who has schizophrenia or being that person.
Interesting read.
A couple thoughts I had throughout:1) The author had MONEY and a supportive and educated family.
Terrifying to consider what her situation would have been like without either of these things.
Seems that there was little "journey" out of madness, just life with and without medication; once the medication was introduced, the problems diminished quite a bit.4) How has the treatment of schizophrenia/serious mental illness changed since this book was written?
How has its popular perception changed?
(Especially considering the appearance of mentally ill people in pop culture, and the development of successful medicines to treat many conditions.)
A fascinating account of a woman born into an ambitious family, intelligent, accepted to an Ivy League university, who finds herself disturbed by Voices and experiencing wild mood swings. Her description of what goes on inside her head gives insight into the incredible challenges involved with living with schizophrenia. She survives the disbelief/denial of her illness by her family and herself, several hopitalizations, and brain-numbing medications, to finally find a medication which allows her to reclaim her life.
I learned a lot about the processes taken in the care system when you have a mental illness and about schizophrenia itself. She obviously came from an upper class family; because of that I wonder if her care was different. I REALLY hated her parents. I found them selfish. It just felt like a lot of it had been co-written, I started to feel like chapters were similar and I didn’t get the same personal feelings as I did with My Lovely Wife in the Phych Ward, for example. After that, though, still a good read.
Başarılı,sevilen ,cıvıl cıvıl bir genç kızın hayatının,kafasının içinde beliren seslerle tam tersi bir yöne gitmesini anlatan bu kitabı beğendim.Beynin çalışma şekli,hastalıkları hep ilgimi çeker,bu konulara ilgi duymayanlar için sıkıcı bir kitap olabilir.Martı yayıncılık bu kadar çok dizgi ve bağlaç hatasını nasıl gözden kaçırmış şaşırdım.Rahatsız edecek derecede çok hata vardı.Özetle ilgi duyduğum bir konuda ve gerçek bir hayat hikayesi olması sebebiyle kitabı beğendim.
It comes in a sort of double dose, I suppose; the book was written with several years of distance, but reading it in the 21st century allows one to see just how much things have altered with regard to treatments being tailored to individuals rather than the mass.
One feels an awful lot of empathy for her.The Quiet Room presents enlightening and scary details about firsthand drug use, which Schiller turns to when the more traditional treatments fail to work for her.
The Quiet Room is honest and powerful, and a must-read if you are at all interested in mental illness and its effects.
Lori Schiller is a young woman that has come far enough with her battle with mental illness that she can tell her story.
What really fascinated me was that several people contributed to her narrative, effectively feeling in the gaps in her timeline and painting a heartbreaking picture of what it's like to love someone with a mental illness.
You can tell that he is a powerful and reserved man with a great love for his family.
Even more moving to me was imagining what Lori's story would have been like had she been lacking a financially stable family that loved her.
"Maybe she would be better off dead." This is the heartbreaking consideration of the parents of Lori Schiller, a woman who, at the age of about 22, begins to exhibit symptoms of schizo-affective disorder.
After years and years of treatment, hospitalization, drugs, a halfway house, discharges from facilities and therapy, her parents (and Lori herself) begin to wonder what kind of quality of life she can ever have.
It is written by Lori, her parents, brothers, friends, and doctors.
The multi-faceted account allows the reader a comprehensive and overwhelming look into what life is like for someone who suffers from this disorder and also the experiences of those around her.
Lori Schiller traces the course of her once normal life that suddenly became dominated by the voices, hallucinations, depression, and other debilitating symptoms of schizophrenia.
She gives great insight into a condition that I could never imagine surviving, especially the voices that urge her to kill herself and others day after day.
The book thus gives a comprehensive depiction of schizophrenia that is terrifying and saddening, but not without hope.
Even though I chose it to increase my knowledge of schizophrenia by the end of the book I wanted to hear more from Lori as a compelling and heroic person, not just as a schizophrenic able to verbalize her symptoms.
Lori Schiller's The Quiet Room is a true story about her development of schizophrenia and how it affects her life.
She describes in the book how the illness progressed, starting from her very first signs.
Although she faces ups and downs throughout the book, the author later describes how she becomes homeless in the Big Apple that is New York City, which leads her to face many doctors and specialists regarding her condition.
This story is an interesting perspective on the illness of schizophrenia, as it is written by an actual sufferer.
This was a very hard book to read.
Sometimes I wondered if Lori was making up a lot of it, but then again I have never known anyone personally with this disease.
The torture her mind put her through is just incredible.I didn't have a problem with others writing chapters of it, though.
It gave more perspective and their voices of what she went through are important.I admire the fact that Lori was finally able to become independent in her early 30's and get married at 42.
Her experience has proven that this disease can be controlled with a combination of the right medications and a lot of therapy!
I really enjoy books that let me see what it's like to have a mental illness, and there aren't many such illnesses that so powerfully upset the landscape of the mind as schizophrenia.
Having said that, there are other books on the topic that give a much more compelling and clearer picture of that landscape than _The Quiet Room._ Schiller's story is interesting, but she gives too many details in one place and skims over another where I would have wanted to know more.
(If you're interested, a much more gripping memoir of life with schizophrenia is _The Center Cannot Hold_ by Elyn Saks.)

A very good book from a person who has experienced the ravages of severe mental illness first-hand. As a person who has experienced paranoid-schizophrenia second-hand through my father, I can say that this book captures the realities of schizophrenia at its best and its worst. My father personally knows Lori Schiller and says she is an amazing woman, though anybody reading this book can see this to be true. A definite read for anybody interested in abnormal psychology or a great story about personal strength.
there are many memoirs on mental illness but this book was a whole new level, I sympathize with Lori's sufferings because it's absolutely horrific what she had to go through, Being a normal girl who was nothing but smart and happy..she did great in school and in college but it didn't stop the illness from swallowing her slowly, and alienating her from everyone ,Not to mention leading her into drug abuse, this book gave me another new perspective on schizophrenia and manic depression.
This was a very interesting read, a real-life account of a young girl who struggles with mental illness. By 17 it beings to escalate and later she is diagnosed with schizophrenia. I appreciated the different chapters written by different people in her life, her mother, father, siblings, doctors, etc. Its important to note this book was written in 1994, I would be interested in reading more about current medical procedures for patients like Lori.
i don't think i've ever given a memoir five stars before but from the first sentence of this book, i knew it was going to be a different experience. i really appreciate the way this book is written because you get to see who lori's illness effected those around her. her story was really engrossing and i recommend it to anyone interested in abnormal psychology or mental health in general.
Enlightening, engrossing, and a very sad commentary on how the mentally ill are still viewed today. It was wonderful that Lori Schilling was able to find the help she needed with the right doctors, medication and determination in the end, but how rare is her tale?When your own family can not come to terms with your disease, how can society? Truly heartbreaking.
