https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39798.Firewall
In this 8th book in the 'Kurt Wallander' series, the Swedish detective is dealing with personal problems while investigating two suspicious deaths.
The book can be read as a standalone.***** Inspector Kurt Wallender and his detectives are looking into two incidents: the brutal murder of a cab driver by two teenage girls, Sonya Hokberg and Eva Persson; and the death, seemingly from a heart attack, of computer expert Tynnes Falk near an ATM machine.
During all this Wallender is dealing with personal issues: he's charged with police brutality toward the teen suspect Eva Persson and he's lonesome and longing for female companionship.
Not because it was too gory or because what was written disagreed with me in a philosophical way, but because I have grown to care about Kurt Wallander over the eight books I've read -- maybe even seeing a bit of myself in him -- and it's in this book that he is most under siege, and that feeling of being under attack was the feeling that made me feel ill.
It was an uncomfortable mirror for me, really, and it did its job of building and maintaining tension better than any other Wallander book I've read.
Mankell's laziest, most hackish work yet, a pastiche of several other books in the series. At this point, I guess he could write them in his sleep. And probably did. Take elements of techno-terrorism or sabotage, Africa, disgruntled teens committing seemingly random crimes, mix, rearrange. He didn't even bother to tie up several loose ends in this one.
With each Kurt Wallander mystery I read, I'm more and more impressed with Mankell's ability to create a Swedish police procedural that pulls you in--no matter how dense the "procedural" aspects of the case are.
Like the first book I read (Faceless Killers), this is no thriller with aspirations for movie-dom (you know the ones) though there are suspenseful moments.
Instead, this is a layered, complex telling of two seemingly unrelated cases and how Wallander and his team slowly tease out the connections and begin to unravel something much bigger and more sinister.
Read the book and find out.

That approach led to a feeling that much of the book was redundant, when what was really happening was that the reader was participating just as if they were a part of the investigative team, trying to make sense with limited information available.
It was almost like trying to assemble a model without the instructions—the pieces are all there but it's impossible to put them together without more input.In its own way, the personal situations that Wallander endured in the book were as interesting as the main narrative was.
A case of two teen aged girls who brutally murder a cab driver and confess with no remorse that it was simply for money leads Wallender to look closer.
From this slow start, Wallender and his team slowly piece together clues that link the cases together and tensions build as more deaths point to some sort of dangerous conspiracy.
In this particular story, progress sometimes moves at a glacial pace while the reader is frustrated with special but incomplete knowledge about the bad guys behind the scenes.
Ultimately, the motivation of the bad guys is not portrayed very plausibly.
Let me say upfront, if you like realistic, modern crime drama that does not paint routine policy work as a series of great inspirations and glorified thoughts, these books are definitely for you.The story is not idealized, it shows the police as human beings, flawed to the core, struggling with everyday problems of their own and drudging through routine police work that involves crimes utterly sordid, exposing some of the darkest sides of human nature.This book is no different.
But leave if to Kurt Wallander to sort things out, while struggling with his own personal problems and keeping a police force together that work long hours, smoke and drink way too much.
In this book he's investigating a murder committed by two teenage girls that soon become linked to the death of a man that apparently died of natural causes in front of an ATM machine.The story has its weak points though, e.g. the reason for the perpetrators to go to such great lengths in providing clues for the police to link the two deaths in never adequately explained.
Has no one ever in a Scandinavian crime novel been a well rounded, reasonably happy person without deep rooted psychological problems?The plot however is exiting and, apart from Mankell's obvious ignorance about how computers and dating sites work, realistic.
The guns laws were of particular interest to me because if Wallander didn't carry a gun and people are being killed in other cruel and unusual ways I have to assume that guns are difficult to get or outlawed.First the crime data:Sweden has 1.23m total reports of crimeThe U.S. has 11.87m total reports of crimeThat doesn't seem too bad, but when you look at total population, that's another story.U.S population is 298.44mSwedish population is 9.01mUsing that data, I calculate that only 3.9% of the total US population is affected by crime, whereas 13.7% of the Swedish population is affected by crime.
The more I read these, the more find him an unpleasant person.No, I amend that - the more I am coming to detest Wallander as a main character.
Go investigate Y."Team member, whining, "But I don't have time to investigate Y, I'm working on Z."Wallander, shouting, and slapping the table, "I don't care!
Do what I say!"Team member, placating, "All right!
And is further shocked when Ann-Britt Hoglund explains to him that young girls don't have a place in society anymore and are lashing out because of it.
But even this glimpse of Swedish society as seen through the pen of the author might not be enough to continue with the series.
First pass at a review.Henning Mankell has a virtually flawless writing style.
In fact, I think that's the source of the power of Mankell's writing style - to build enough things outside of the core story - to constantly draw attention to the idea that even story book detectives lead lives outside of their make-belief police station - that environment of loneliness, quietness, and heavy Scandinavian fog invites we the reader to blend their world with ours.
Over 50, living alone, long divorced and in no relationship, his father now deceased, his daughter off on her own, diabetic and in poor health, in Firewall Wallander takes on two seemingly unrelated, sleep-depriving cases in the midst of mistrust and betrayal by his department leadership and colleagues.
The key case itself is a bit of a stretch to believe that his department would have been left largely on its own to investigate, but the rest is depressing gold.
I would have given this book 4 stars had the case been more believable.
Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsOthers in this Series:1.) The White Lioness - ★★★★2.) One Step Behind - ★★★★★/Review3.) The Troubled Man - ★★★★★/Review
Primeiro, estranhei a narrativa lenta, as frases curtas, muitas delas, demasiado, e os pensamentos do solitário Wallander a dominarem (sem serem em itálico, o que me confundiu durante muito tempo). Nos primeiros livros, a edição era má, mas nos últimos, felizmente, melhorou bastante.Este policial, o penúltimo livro de KW, foi escrito em 1998, mas publicado apenas em 2008 em Portugal. Por conseguinte, está um pouco datado (as disquetes há muito que se encontram extintas), mas os conceitos de vulnerabilidade, hackers, vírus informáticos ou colapso financeiro continuam actuais.
Tense, and intense. I find this character flawed and insecure enough to make him reader friendly. Well plotted and just complex enouth.
L’indagine come un puzzleProprio come molti amano rilassarsi, cimentarsi e, perché no?, divertirsi con la tecnica e l’arte del puzzle e almeno altrettanti ne disdegnano l’idea stessa, non potendo immaginare un modo meno proficuo di impiegare il tempo, così si dividono i fans di Henning Mankell e i suoi assoluti detrattori, che giudicano le indagini dell’ispettore Wallander insopportabilmente noiose, lente e ripetitive.Mi rendo conto che il parallelismo puzzle/indagine è scontato e soprattutto può essere applicato a svariati altri autori se non addirittura al genere poliziesco tout court.
E proprio come quando si prende in mano una tessera del puzzle e si prova ad adattarla al quadro esistente accostandola in ogni modo possibile, un nuovo elemento, indizio, evento (confermativo o più spesso sorprendente) ridefinisce l’insieme delle conoscenze e l’immagine sottesa che si fa ancor più confusa, tanto che uno dei collaboratori di W.
Correction of basic description--"soon the blackout covers half the region," not the whole country.In this one, Mankell moves into thriller territory, as he did in The Man From Beijing.
If you accept that premise, then things move along as usual--Kurt's personal problems, conflicts within his team, misleads and hunches, missed opportunities, good descriptions of different environments and weathers.
Once again, as in other novels, Wallander should be dead by the end, but luckily his clumsiness saves him (twice in this one), plus a just-in-time salvation by a colleague.
Mankell gives them personal reasons for doing so, but still....
I am a fan of Henning Mankell and have read the entire series of his Wallander books. I recommend them to anyone who like the slower pace of Northern European crime fiction. I honestly cannot think of a downside to his books. They are interesting and exciting, without over-sensationalizing the underlying social topics. The protagonist is a conflicted man, but not without convictions. The criminals are awful, but often with understandable reasons for the evil that they do.
Um livro escrito, ou pelo menos passado na viragem do século, e a evolução desde essa altura até aos nossos dias é brutal a nível eletrónico. Wallander continua a ser um policia do "passado" onde estas novas tecnologias ainda não domina.Uma história empolgante e repleta de voltas e reviravoltas, e a certeza de que poucos podem causar ou pelo menos tentar, muita destruição.
My Swedish reading proficiency has come a long way since I read the first Wallander book a year or so ago.
I jumped from book 1 to book 8 because of availability, but I didn't feel lost despite the elapse of years in his life.
Wallander is no hero, but he is methodical and determined in his work, and caring in his own way, and I have begun to warm to him.
I don't really enjoy slogging through Wallander's grim, lonely, and mostly unrewarding experiences, but at the same time I care about him enough to want to read the entire series.
Creo que el caso ha perdido algo de frescura o vigencia. Probablemente hay otros libros que abordan mejor la problemática de la red. Pero el proceso interno de Wallander me encanta. El viejo que tiene que vivir en los nuevos tiempos es algo que soy. Empatizo totalmente con Kurt Wallander.
Απ τα καλύτερά του. Βίαιοι φόνοι μέσα σε μια Σουηδία που αναλογίζεται το μέλλον της. Ενας Κουρτ Βαλάντερ μελαγχολικός. Μια έρευνα που δεν σ αφήνει να πάρεις ανάσα. Το διαβάζεις με την πλάτη στον τοίχο, να ξέρεις τι σου γίνεται...καλού κακού.
A procedural detective story starring Kurt Wallender can move along slowly and still be absorbing. Mankell is one of the Scandinavian mystery mavens and will certainly be missed.
Getting to know Kurt Wallander is like getting to know someone of a personality you never saw before. But once you know him, you see someone like him in people you never understood before.
Great entry into the Wallander lexicon. Enjoyed this one immensely...lots of twists, some hard knocks for Kurt and a bit of grace at the end. Very well done.
Se me hace que escribir un libro policiaco no es empezar a enredar todo con coincidencias pequeñas y sin argumentos tan fuertes. Nada que ver con otros libros del mismo estilo.
Great read. Well written and up to date story. Thanks Elizabeth
Excelente policial que te mantiene en vilo hasta el final!!
Ein Computerfachmann wird tot vor einem Geldautomaten gefunden und wenngleich es so scheint als wäre es ein natürlicher Tod gewesen verdichten sich die Hinweise, dass irgend etwas ganz und gar nicht stimmt.
Wallander setzt sich wieder einmal über die Vorschriften hinweg und beauftragt einen erst kürzlich aus der Haft entlassenen Hacker mit der Aufgabe, in den Rechner des Toten einzudringen.
Das Bild des alternden Kommissars ist noch facettenreicher geworden, nicht mehr bloß der trübsinnige Polizist, sondern ein Mensch in seiner ganzen (Un)Tiefe.Wieder einmal steigt der schwedische Schriftsteller auf die Barrikaden und zeichnet ein brutales Bild der Gesellschaft.
