https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381416.The_Revolution_of_Everyday_Life
Και οι ευχές τους πραγματοποιήθηκαν, εν πολλοίς, και αυτή ήταν η τιμωρία τους, διότι όπως με πόνο ψυχής προειδοποιούσε ο Δάσκαλος Τσέχωφ: "Θα τη βρεις τελικά την αλήθεια και αυτή θα σε συντρίψει".
Δεν υπάρχει τίποτα πιο τραυματικό για την ύπαρξη από το να ανακαλύψει πως τα όνειρα και οι προσδοκίες έγιναν πράξη αργοπορημένα και στρεβλά, καθώς τελικά η ζωή έχει τον δικό της σαρκαστικό τρόπο να περιπαίζει τις ελπίδες των ανθρώπων, παρατηρώντας τες αδιάφορα να αναγεννώνται από τις στάχτες τους προτού επιστρέψουν ξανά εκεί, μαζί με εκείνους που τις έθρεψαν.
Μέχρι την επόμενη φορά…
Including all my erstwhile Anarcho buddies from back in the 80’s.Luckily for me I worked near Housman’s bookshop in Kings Cross for a few years this opened my eyes to a whole world of stuff including this book.I read this book in 1983 in my teenage years and yes I can say it changed my life.
I use to read it on the commuter train to and from work.
But I do still recognise how creativity is re-recuperated by the spectacle.
Make your own head space, your own creativity, recognise the spectacle in all its forms and peoples greyness.
Compared to The Society of the Spectacle, Revolution of Everyday Life is far more accessible, being less a theoretical critique of late capitalism and more a manifesto for revolution.
If you happened to be steeped in the writing of left/radical French philosophers, sociologists, or critical theorists, then this is a "must read." Clearly tapping into the spleen & ennui of the existential mood of the late 60s, Vaneigem turns the source of existentialism away from some nebulous metaphysical source and redirects our attention to the real causes: the dehumanizing power of authoritarian bureaucracy and modern means of production.
Superbly intelligent and superb. Makes you feel superb. Makes you want to become more superb. Kills boredom forever. Exposes just about everything as a sham. Nihilism at its most hilarious. Not actually nihilistic at all. Religious. Powerful. Power-mad, in a mad-good way. Mad. Bad. Good.
Learning actually works when you engage with the text…This book is geared towards the underworked proletariat, the unemployed, the privileged and the artisans, of which the author claims to have been the core of past revolutions.
He turns traditional ideas of nihilism on their head completely...and suggests that nihilists will be the greatest friends of the revolutionaries.Conclusions he might have missed:A false dichotomy between reform and revolution?
That makes me seriously wonder why 44 years later why we haven't been anywhere near revolution...has the spectacle somehow managed to control our ideal worlds?
Undecipherable situationist bullshit
“I want to live intensely, for myself, grasping every pleasure firm in the knowledge that what is radically good for me will be good for everyone.” Alright, it’s fine if you want to have fun in your actions towards social change and revolution, but don’t fucking belittle all those other people that work fucking hard for social change in different ways, because you’re whole theory is only rationalizing your own selfish ego by pretending everything will change because you and some others are “intensely following their inner desires”.
Originally read this serialized in the pages of the mag "Anarchy: A Journal of Desire Armed."One of the most important works I've ever read.It changed my life for ever. While I can't point to concrete particulars, everything was different afterwards.This is the definitive document, along with Debord's "Society of the Spectacle", of everything wrong with modern life.
I just re-read this (1/12) and still find it extremely relevant to understanding the malaise that seems to permeate my generation... and an outline of the means to free ourselves from it. Dense and wholesome, highly recommended.
Re-read, 09/2017: Every sentiment I expressed in my first review of this book is still absolutely true. many people will tell you that "the society of the spectacle" is the be all and end all of situationist literature, but vaneigem's novel is more readable, more easily understood, and much more inspiring and thought provoking. highly recommended.
Vaneigem writes like a poet ; a very angry, and insightful poet. Covers the same ground as "Society of the Spectacle" but much more easier (and fun) to read. This book will get you thinking, and may even turn you dangerously radical.
Muy recomendable. Reseña completa:http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/raou...
“I want to live intensely, for myself, grasping every pleasure firm in the knowledge that what is radically good for me will be good for everyone.” Alright, it’s fine if you want to have fun in your actions towards social change and revolution, but don’t fucking belittle all those other people that work fucking hard for social change in different ways, because you’re whole theory is only rationalizing your own selfish ego by pretending everything will change because you and some others are “intensely following their inner desires”.
I don't understand why this book has garnered so many great reviews.
I am reading a translation and maybe it is better in the original French.
Also, I was born a decade after the '68 that would have made this book relevant.
Sad thing is, you read some of his more recent interviews and the guy is still spouting the same nonsense.
Apparently, in the past 50 years, he hasn't changed, matured, or developed his ideas beyond the junk you will read here.
Maybe he was relevant once...
This book belongs in a museum, not on my bookshelf.
Nos encontramos de frente con la apatía, el estupor, la hostilidad y las falsas relaciones enraizadas en la mercancía que es fácil entender como legítimas.Los situacionistas tuvieron el mérito de encaminar de nuevo las luchas marxistas en el sentido con el que se concibieron: cambiar la vida cotidiana.
Sobre todo, es una apelación a encontrar nuestros propios espacios y generar relaciones auténticas, a reconocer la humanidad en el ser que nos observa desde el espejo, no dejando espacio a la mano fría del Capital en nuestra vida cotidiana."No renunciaré a mi parte de violencia".
Bardzo inspirująca książka. Warto w maju 2018 roku przypomnieć jakie były nastroje 50 lat temu w maju '68.Całkowicie zgadzam się z autorem - powinniśmy dążyć do spełnienia naszych pragnień, nie żyć w "roli", porzucić wszelkie podziały, głośno wyśmiewać i buntować się przeciwko ludziom starego porządku, którzy z góry narzucają nam sposób życia. Jak u Prousta - skupić się na ulotnych chwilach, dostrzegać piękno teraźniejszości, a nie zatracać się w minionej przeszłości i przewidywać niepewną przyszłość. Krytykujmy konsumpcję i reklamę, nie dajmy sobie mydlić oczu obietnicami. Praktykujmy rewolucją życia codziennego.
Yeah, consuming shit is hollow yet entrapping because commodities are the fuel of the economy.
The Economy needs to trick us into buying its shit.
But I feel math is a different kind of creativity to artistic creativity.
As a self-described non-artist, I really didn't understand what Vaneigem means about creativity as a form of resistance.
He didn't simply mean poetry as lines of text, or creativity as painting, surely, but the concept of the centrality of creativity to the revolution of everyday life escapes my understanding.Interesting book with tons of clever and inspiring lines.
Rich, poetic, and full of quotable material.
Sometimes it seems a little over the top on the "quotable material", though.
I found it to be, on the most part, a beautiful and inspiring exploration of anarchist/situationist ideas.
In particular, I thought he demonstrated the negative impacts of hierarchical power/slavery systems (capitalism, gov't, religion, etc) on the authenticity of the individual and thus, society very well.
Sometimes, in many other works, these discussions lack the passion and humanity that I find to be most powerful.
When I originally read this work, over a decade ago, I was floored.
It should be noted, however, that I read the work in translation (that was the copy ordered for a class).
Rereading Vaneigem today, I must say I was somewhat bemused.
Was it an excellent translation that made sense of what was originally intellectual thicket (something I have to do on a quasi-daily basis, FWIW)?
At any rate, for the importance this book has had in my life, I can only give it five stars, even if there are large swathes in which today I "no longer hear the music", to paraphrase Pete Doherty.
Boredom is counter revolutionary!It seems so long since the events of May 1968 that the Situationist movement may be almost forgotten. It was a moving experience to read this remarkable book and recognise the necessity of recovering our present from our erstwhile masters. Never before have these words made more sense; hopefully they will serve as a blueprint for the next generation of revolutionists just as they did for ours - and yet, perhaps in the true spirit of playfullness a better way can be found?
I dont know what there is to say about this piece that hasn't been said by much better people than me....All i can say is HIGHLY RECOMMEND. if you buy one book this year, let it be this one, i promise you will not be disappointed and if you're anything like me you will come back to it often.<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3&lt
I dont know what there is to say about this piece that hasn't been said by much better people than me....All i can say is HIGHLY RECOMMEND. if you buy one book this year, let it be this one, i promise you will not be disappointed and if you're anything like me you will come back to it often.<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3<3
I've always thought of this as a type of psycho-subversive instruction booklet written in Debord's language. Sort of a self-help guide for anarchists in need of a quick nudge in the ribs. If you want meat - go to Debord. But if you need some inspiration, this works.
People who talk about revolution and class struggle without referring explicitly to everyday life, without understanding what is subversive about love and what is positive in the refusal of constraints, such people have corpses in their mouths.
excellent follow-up for society of the spectacle
This was the first date in a very passionate love-affair.
Despite or because of this his writing is very thick and sometimes impenetrable, though understanding his style and approach become more possible as the book goes on.Vaneigem bring to the fore the issues of capitalism and consumerist society in the ways that they affect the the everyday life of individuals, the consequences of the tyranny of commodity and the affects of the spectacle.Some of the concepts that stand out in his exploration are: the commodification of human relations to the point that everything becomes an exchange(instead of a gift) and how this becomes synonymous with the process of humiliation of individuals., the feeling of being an object.The Illusion of togetherness created by an atomized and massified society, creation of ''neutral relations'' (i.e small talk) that lack passion or freedom of expression and lack of community, the suffering of others as a marker of our own happiness by virtue of being observers to others suffering.
Vaneigem manages to articulate something I've always known somewhere deep in my consciousness but never been able to formulate into anything more substantial than world-weary criticism of hierarchical power.
However, while the first two-thirds of this book skewer capitalism, hierarchical power, the bourgeoisie, and the twentieth century's failed "socialist" revolutions, and much of leftist theory and praxis; the last third offers a chink of hope.
The situationists' vision of a world governed by unbridled play and a unitary triad of self-realisation, communication, and participation is a seductive one indeed.
Still learning french, so I couldn't get all of it. This is not as good as Societe du Spectacle. It's a lot lighter, but that's not said as a compliment.This is alright. It felt sort of like some guy collected a whole bunch of notes, whereas societe du spectacle felt as if it had a planned and definite purpose.
I loved this book.
My brain is doing somersaults. May be worth a second pass. A challenging read. I’ve never marked so many chapters or passages in a book before. Many truisms and applicable crossovers.
