https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/405598.The_Fortunes_of_Captain_Blood
The last book of the trilogy feels like a second half of the second one to the point where I really do not understand why these two could not be combined - this is actually what I did with my copies (Calibre rules) and as the result the reading experience was quite smooth.
The stories were still fun to read although by the very end I began feeling like Captain Blood overstated his welcome somewhat.
To make a long story short if you like good old-fashion adventures with all kinds of pirate-related activities written way before such activities became worn out cliches read the trilogy.
Awesome book! I could read/listen to this over and over!
As expected, Captain Blood! Good, good.
I fell in love with Captain Blood about as soon as I opened the book and the opening phrase to The Tavern Knight is still one of my personal favorites.
It wasn’t until I took to the Internet later that I found out that Captain Blood Returns wasn’t a sequel, per say, but just a collection of short-stories about the Irish surgeon turned pirate that took place while he was still a buccaneer.
And like in the original novel and the sequel collection of shorts, Fortunes of Captain Blood shows the Irish pirate at his best, putting his rapier wit against the fleet of the Spanish Main.
Captain Blood is a loveable rogue who fights for the good rather than the riches as most pirates do or so we are led to believe. I am really enjoying the tales of swashbuckling heroes. Captain Blood reminds me of our modern day comic super heroes who go about teaching the baddies some long overdue lessons through showing them up and bringing them low. I have read a couple of other classic authors whose tales are of a similar nature and I have thoroughly enjoyed them. I shall look for more.
same crap again
Yes! Can't go wrong with Captain Blood. Terrific pirate stories.
read between summer 1970 & summer 1974
The first book was the best because it was one coherent story with an injustice and redemption, but the other two books of short stories were still quite good. They were like the friend who you can always depend on to say "yes" when you want to go to the game, go to the movie or come over for a few beers. For me these books were dependable, entertaining and bred a bit of nastalgia for characters and time that in this ideal form I'm sure never wholly existed, but it's nice to think about.
Some of these short stories started to feel like retreads, so I liked Captain Blood Returns better. Elements of the characterization also felt a little off to me.
Іще одна хороша пригодницька книжка, де кожна підлота отримує по заслузі, а панянки отримують знаходять своїх рятівників.
Sabatini short stories that are as sharp as a rapier. Fun, interesting reading.
One of my favourite childhood stories is the one of Captain Blood. I enjoyed this book a lot.
Great adventure!
пиrrrrаты <3
