https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1460629.Knight_s_Gambit
And if he can't make the law work he'll get justice if he has to do it outside a court room.Now Bill Faulkner wrote this book "Knight's Gambit." It's all bout Lawyer.
Not much in this town happens I don't know and I know all the people in this book.They's some folks think Lawyer was just Bill's mouthpiece, spoutin' out his ideas on politics and govermint and the like.
I guess he must of wrote that for free cause he wan't no better than Bill if he got paid for it.And then you got them folks that read nuthin' but mystery books.
Think about it: the Mississippi writer from an old family, but immured in a oh-so-proud rural culture, though he has seen World War I and Paris and met the likes of James Joyce.
The stories in Knight's Gambit act more than anything else as vehicles for the enlightenment of Gavin Stevens and of his nephew Charles.
You dont draw and then throw the cards in because they are not what you wanted, expected, hoped for; not just for the sake of your own soul and pocket-book, but for the sake of the others in the game, who have likewise assumed that unspoken obligation."Many people do not like Knight's Gambit.
2.5*Οι μικρές ιστορίες δεν ταιριάζουν καθόλου με την αφηγηματική τεχνική του Φώκνερ,γεγονός που φάνηκε ακόμα περισσότερο μετά τη νουβέλα που ειναι κλασικό κείμενο του Αμερικανού,με θυελλώδη ρυθμό κ εναλλαγή αφηγητων απο τελεία σε τελεία (κ ειναι το μισό βιβλιο). Δεν κρύβω ότι με βασάνισε κ μάλλον πείσμωσα να το τελειώσω. Όσοι θέλουν να γνωρίσουν τον εισαγγελέα Στηβενς ας ξεκινήσουν απο αλλού.
Touted as "mystery stories" by the pen of the mighty Faulkner, I might describe them as that but maybe half-heartedly.
As always, they are much more than that.The stories are linked by having Gavin Stevens, local lawyer and gadfly detective of the county, who shows up in several Faulkner novels, as the main protagonist.
He solves local crimes and smokes a pipe while his nephew witnesses his bad-assery.The first few "Smoke", "Monk", et cetera, are brief toss-offs, not bad, but earlier works, before Faulkner hit his stride.
The latter half, especially "An Error in Chemistry" and the title track are supremely wonderful.
Ultimately, it wasn't to my taste as I'm neither into mystery stories (which on the surface these short stories are supposed to be) nor into the literature of the American South (which this and probably all other Faulkner books are).
The mystery aspects take a back seat in all stories and solely function as an occasion to present the main figure, the county attorney Gavin Stevens, and his nephew Charles while detailing out Faulkner's Yoknapatawhpha.If I were to recommend one of these stories, I would choose 'Monk'.
The twist of the story, i.e. Stevens' resolution of the crime is subtle and original.
Faulkner’s layered writing and plot building, his expert dropping of clues and hints that make their reappearance with deft precision later make him an ideal mystery writer; so there was no hesitation picking this up when I saw it an a bookshop a few months ago.
Patience comes before the prize though: it brings to mind what a friend of mine told me once, that Faulkner is one of the most rewarding authors to read.Not all 6 of the stories are ‘mysteries’ per se, but do follow the convention whodunit arc of the expert mystery writer.
'Yes,' the sheriff said. 'The Book itself says somewhere,  Know thyself. Ain't there another book somewhere that says, Man, fear thyself, thine arrogance and vanity and pride? You ought to know; you claim to be a book man. Didn't you tell me that's what the luck-charm on your watch chain means? What book is that in?''It's in all of them,' Uncle Gavin said. 'The good ones, I mean. It's said in a lot of different ways, but it's there.'
Great writing from a great writer...if ya want to write well, read great writers. Actually the wise and erudite Gavin Stevens is a pretty cool character. Faulkner's use of viewpoint is fascinating.
Each story features the protagonist Gavin Stevens, a highly intelligent local Mississippi prosecutor.SMOKEA judge is murdered and it's up to Gavin to decide what connection lies between his death and the impending inheritance of two local brothers.Faulker's writing is as good as it gets for a 20th century American writer but I can't help feel confused by the way Gavin Stevens unravels the mystery.
(8/19)AN ERROR IN CHEMISTRYThis story is also told from Gavin's nephew's point of view and follows a murderer's seemingly illogical confession.
There's some Faulkner motifs, but they all lack his key signatures.I liked the point of view the story is told in, but that really does little more than placate to the wishes of the reader.
Then you read through a close third person from the point of view of Gavin's nephew.
I mean, these were nice jokes--something I myself would use (and I reeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaally like Faulkner, so I do cramp his style a bit)--but just going along with the whole FINDING JUSTICE!
Knight's Gambit bears out what some people have observed of Faulkner: his novellas and short fiction were probably his best form.
Sure, the novels are extraordinary (if that doesn't damn him with faint praise), but if you just want to read around in Faulkner without heaving the big tome to bed for twenty minutes of reading before sleep, I recommend Gambit: six mystery tales, all featuring Gavin Stevens, D.A. of Yoknapatawpha County.
His keen powers of observation will remind you of S.
At 30 or so pages each (excepting the longer title story), these almost Twainesque mysteries will send you off to dreamland with a smile.
Creo que Faulkner no es lo mío...
So, I can say that I have read Faulkner now...
Muy buena intentona, pero no acaba de cuajar por la solución tan deus ex machina."Monje": es una historia más cercana al "police procedural" y, precisamente porque se detiene en el análisis psicológico y motivacional de los personajes, es uno de los mejores relatos del libro."La mano sobre las aguas": se puede decir lo mismo que del anterior."Mañana": ni siquiera se puede calificar de police procedural.
Es el relato más diferente del conjunto, pero los dramas humanos narrados son muy emotivos y, viniendo de Faulkner, eso vale su peso en oro."Un error de química": si "Humo" había sido una intentona bastante mediocre dentro del whodunit, aquí Faulkner dió en el clavo de lleno.
Some Faulkner samples for the interested reader:"But Uncle Gavin says it don't take many words to te
I find it difficult to give such a renowned author as Faulkner such a low rating. This is my first foray into his works and I found myself lost more than once. I think, however, that this may be a sign of my literary naivety rather than any fault on Faulkner's part.Though I found his prose to be convoluted at best, his descriptions are marvelous. I adored much of his detailing and meditations on the human condition. I'd like to give Faulkner another try, perhaps when I'm both older and wiser.
A book with 6 short stories. It honestly didn’t hold my attention and I didn’t make it through the first story ‘Smoke’ before giving up.I give it 3 stars because it doesn’t interest me, but I’m confident that those who enjoy the mystery type genre would like this book.
La verdad no hay mucho por decir: cuentos de corte detectivesco, Faulkner, una muestra de conocimiento del alma humana. Mejor leer este libro.
Faulkner's prowess in spinning a good mystery is on full display here, especially in the titular tale. A welcome addition to his other short story collections.
Great piece of work, and wonderful work of the translator سيزار كبيبو
And that might be a good thing.On a whole the stories are more easily accessible and because of this, Knight's Gambit is a great, simple introduction to Faulkner's South and his major concerns.
What makes Detective Gavin Stevens a great detective in these stories is not the hard-boiled, gut-it-out attitude of a Sam Spade, or the razor sharp senses of Sherlock Holmes, but rather his intimate knowledge of the South and its people.
Because it is easily accessible, while retaining Faulkner's signature thematic concerns, it's a perfect Faulkner primer, which is how I used it when I taught a Major Author's course on Faulkner at National University.
A great fun read, which you can enjoy in bite size stories.
short story collection of wildly varying quality.
at its best its eerie southern gothic detective fiction and at its worst its just painfully dull prose narrated by someone with no regard to proper sentence structure.
faulker is like the opposite of henry james - with james there are way too many commas and with faulkner there are not enough periods.
excessive use of pronouns are irritating too - in the titular story (easily the weakest of the lot here) the main character (who happens to be the main character in all the stories) is referred to "his uncle" throughout even when it makes no sense grammatically within the sentence
Es una compilación de 6 cuentos por el autor William Faulkner.La manera de escribir de Faulkner, es un nuevo estilo que he descubierto.
Es interesante; como si estuvieras tomando un café con él y te contará toda las historias que ha vivido junto con sus puntos de vista y tratando de comprender los puntos de vista de los demás personajes.Las historias que más me gustaron por su trama y esos giros inesperados que cambiaron toda la perspectiva del cuento fueron:-Humo.-Mañana.•¿Porqué 3 estrellas?
Los cuentos (el monje, una mano sobre las aguas, un error de química y gambito caballo) no me han enganchado del todo, lo cual causaba que me costará trabajo leerlos en algunas ocasiones.
Collection of six “mystery stories” featuring Gavin Stevens.
Faulkner rings changes on the themes of crime without hewing too closely to the standard formulae.
The best stories in the collection do tend to be very “classic” (such as “An Error in Chemistry,” and “Smoke,”) but there’s a lot to be appreciated in the other stories—and Stevens himself does not really come together as a character until the concluding novella, “Knight’s Gambit” (which itself suffers from an over-extended and somewhat arbitrary conclusion, but which also plays with interesting themes of age and war).
Nice collection of Faulkner short stories featuring Gavin Stevens. The best of all of the Stevens stories is the novel, Intruder in the Dust(not included here), but all of the ones here are quite fine. Length increases the tortured Faulknerisms but also the depth of the characterization and the impact beyond the puzzle aspect of the mystery, so the title story--the longest--is also the best, and the least mysterious. But none of them are bad, or without mystery. Or without tortured Faulknerisms. I only wanted to hurl it across the room once, though.
Five short stories and one novella comprise this book. They are hit and miss: some excellent, some merely very good. Gavin Stevens is the main character in all of them; as I re-read Faulkner's books over the years I will have to pay more attention to Stevens. He is in almost all the books, and seems to represent Faulkner himself. In my mind, Faulkner is the Writer; like Aristotle is the Philosopher, and Paul is the Apostle. There will never be another 'Absalom, Absalom', or 'The Mansion', or 'The Wild Palms'....
I decided to read this because my previous experiences with Faulkner had been unsatisfying and I wanted to give him another try. Also, because Knight's Gambit is short, so I wouldn't have to invest too much of my time.The first short story, "Smoke," I didn't like very well. I had to work too hard to figure out the story line. But as I read each successive story, I found myself more and more interested and involved. And "Knight's Gambit," a novella, was a masterpiece of storytelling. Now I need to tackle some of Faulkner's "great" books.
These short murder mysteries are bite-sized vitamins to fuel my raging literary crush on Gavin Stevens. Gavin is a dry student of human nature, Chick Mallison's (awesome)uncle and my favorite narrator in Faulkner's world except for V.K. Ratliff.He embodies one of Faulkner's favorite themes, alienation. A Harvard-educated lawyer shouldn't fit in with the rest of Jefferson, Mississippi. Stevens almost manages it, but the "almost" shows in every story.
A witty, cunning, and mysterious collection of stories. Faulkner poses as a Doyle-like gent hiding in the swamps of the south, capturing the essence of small-town life and small-town secrets, only to unveil the antique relativity of murder. It is without doubt that Faulkner was influenced by not only the confidentiality of his neighbors, but the profound detail and realness one could only assimilate to Georges Simenon.
What is not to like about a smart country lawyer named Gavin Stevens taking care of the folks in Yoknapatawpha County Mississippi? It is Faulkner though and I sometimes had to strain to follow who was addressing whom, but I enjoyed it and suppose I need to acquaint myself with the other appearances of Stevens, Esq. I'm not sure there could be quite any character like Stevens today as people are not quite so known by the locals in most areas, but that is part of the charm of times past.
