https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/858496.Ask_Mr_Bear
Amazing book! My entire childhood!!
Aww ... the ending will put a smile on your face! Young children just love stories where things or characters are added, page by page. I call them "building-block stories." They're obvious, repetitive and oh so catchy! They're just the right level for toddlers to grasp the idea that there's another "building block," and they do love trying to guess what comes next. It's one of the best formats to keep youngsters engaged and eager to read more.Ages 2+
This story is so CUTE! It's about a little boy searching for the perfect gift for his mom. Along the way he meets different farm animals until one of them says go ask the bear. My son had me read this to him about 3 times in one night. He love the pictures and gave me a great big bear hug when I was done reading it to him.
The nostalgia alone makes this book such a wonderful, comfy read. I love the vintage illustrations. The story is simple and cheeky. My little one loves animals and it was fun to read this out loud and make up different voices for each.
Danny's mom is having a birthday and Danny goes in search of a gift for her. He asks all the farm animals if they have something he might be able to give her.This is an easy story that is easy to understand.
The kids would have liked this when they were 2 or 3 years old, especially the part about going to see the bear.
Adorable and full of the repetition children love. Thankfully the repetition varies slightly sparing the adult from boredom.
Beautiful
Copyright 1932. I love old books. This is beautifully illustrated and written. Classic.
Ask Mr. Bear is another of the old children's book I found last month.
As with so many children's books, the boy goes from farm animal to farm animal asking advice from each.
When each suggests a gift that they can give and that his mother already has, he moves on to the next.At last though he is out of farm animals and strikes out on his own into the forest to seek the advice of Mr. Bear.
The gist of the story is that it's the thought that counts and that showing love is sometimes the most important gift a person can give.Ask Mr. Bear is another book I plan to keep to read to my children and to myself.
A young boy needs to find a birthday present for his mother. He meets lots of animals who offer to give him milk, cheese, wool to make a blanket, and many other things. His mother already has those things, so he finds Mr. Bear. Mr. Bear tells him to give his mother a big bear hug. The boy’s mother is very happy with her present. The artwork is very clear and crisp, done in simple colors. The animals are all easily identifiable, and children will enjoy pointing to the animals and saying their nam
A young boy needs to find a birthday present for his mother.
He meets lots of animals who offer to give him milk, cheese, wool to make a blanket, and many other things.
His mother already has those things, so he finds Mr. Bear.
The boy’s mother is very happy with her present.
This book has a predictable pattern of finding animals and then not liking their suggestions for birthday presents.
Children will love listening to the flow of the words and the pleasant pattern of events.
I feel that this is a good children's book because it teaches kids a positive lesson that they can always keep with them.
The lesson that the kids would learn from this book is that people do not always need to receive actual gifts for presents and that sometimes the simple things are all that matter.
I feel that the books text and illustrations compliment each other nicely.
If you did not read the actual text in the book you can almost understand what is actually going on in the story which is why I think the pictures and the text compliment each other so well.
Ask Mr. Bear is about a little boy who was hunting for a present.
He asks all the animals and nothing seems right for a present until at last he meets Mr. Bear.
(Goodreads Summary)Marjorie Flack's illustrations help carry this simple story about a boy looking for the perfect gift for his mother.
The cumulative tale ends on the last page as readers discover that love is an wonderful gift, and that with lots of thought you may discover the perfect gift.
A gentle story that holds up well for younger children.
This the perfect gift for a blue-eyed blonde boy to give his mother on her birthday.
A little girl could do the same, if the person reading this aloud is willing to change "Danny" to "Danielle" and accept that "Danielle" has a golden pixie haircut (the boy is already wearing a pink shirt).
Why won't the animals go see Mr. Bear at the end with Danny?
What kind of friends are those, to send Danny alone into the bear's den?
Who knew the 1930s were so "trippy."All kidding aside, this is a sweet little birthday book.

This is another that I wish I'd have had around when Julia was younger.
It's not the most exceptional book we've ever read but like most everyone else here has said, it is a cute story and it is worth reading.
The basic story is somewhat overdone in childrens books but this was published in 1932, I think, so we can assume it wasn't so overdone at the time.
Julia's starting to get into older books which makes me very happy.
She used to shy away from them if they "looked" older but lately she's been drawn toward them it seems.
I wish I could give this book six stars instead of just five. This is one of my FAVORITE books to read aloud to toddlers and preschoolers. When I need a crowd pleaser--this is the book I choose. The text layout is perfect for picture book read-alouds. The kids love to shout out the animal name as I slowly (and suspensefully) turn the page. My kids always make me do a "special voice" for all of the animals.
I love this book! Not only for the colorful illustrations, but for the loving and caring that I found reading it. The story follows a little boy named Danny, trying to find the perfect present for his mom. As he goes around asking all of the different animals, they all offer things that his mother already has. They suggest that he go and see Mr. Bear, and it turns out that he has something that he can give his mother that only he can!! Such a wonderful story.
An oldie but goodie for storytimes (themes include farm animals, animal sounds, bears). It's a simple cumulative tale. The drawings are definitely a product of their particular era in printing; that's a pro and a con. I like the gentleness, but imagine some readers might find it dull or off-putting. Easily adapted to flannelboard storytelling.
This story was very funny, and teaches several lessons. Children can count the number of animals that didn't want to go talk to Mr. Bear. However, at the end of the day Mr. Bear gave wonderful advice to the little boy in the story about what to get his mother for her birthday, and he didn't eat the little boy as the other animals thought he would.
This little story about a boy searching for the perfect gift for his mother has stood the test of time -- and for good reason! It's cumulative, it's predictable (with a bit of a surprise at the end), and it's about familiar farm animals who can talk!
is it okay to say classic when it's published orig in 1932? what does it say about today's books that when the boy met the bear at the end, my girls thought he would be EATEN!? sheesh. the ending is much sweeter than that.
This was read to me a lot when I was a child and I remember it as part if my families book collection. I love the vivid illustration and remember them so well. My rating is biased based on the strong emotional connection I have to this book and how I associate it with many happy childhood memories.
Read during Preschool Class Visit on 5/9/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...Read at Baby/Toddler Lap Time on 5/11/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...
I think Logan would have loved this book about a year ago, when he was 3 or 4, but he's a bit too old for it now. Too repetitive and not enough going on. It's a lovely book though and I always love Flack's drawings.
An old fashioned-picture book that has been around for many years but still resonates with a wonderful, gentle story of a little boy trying to find just the right birthday present for his mother. A classic.
Enjoyed this more than I had anticipated. The cumulative story has a nice twist towards the end. The illustrations are evocative of the ones from my elementary school readers and I was not charmed by them at all.
Cute older book that models giving gifts to loved ones on their birthdays, gives an opportunity for a big hug at the end and models good manners, as well as plenty of time to learn animal names and noises. MicroMort really liked it.
Genre: Picture/FictionI really enjoyed this book and I thnk most young boys and girls will enjoy it too. The ending is cute when he talks to the bear in the woods and the bear talks to him to give her a bear hug.
I think this is a great preschool read aloud book. It introduces animal sounds and the concepts of what they give. It's repetitive so it allows the child to predict what will happen next. Plus, I really like the overall story. It's warm and fuzzy. :)
