https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/825576.The_Saggy_Baggy_Elephant
The nephew picked this out to read tonight. It's a Little Golden Classic from the 40s. He seemed to enjoy it. It was cute enough. He gave it 3 stars and I followed suit.
The parrot is the one that points out that Sooki doesn't look like anything else in the jungle, and he's not nice about it, either; the stupid bird laughs at the elephant, just because he looks different.I really don't understand why Tenggren was such an acclaimed illustrator.
Compared to the wonderful variety in the gorgeous illustrations we get from the many talented artists working today, Tenggren's pictures don't quite measure up.I honestly don't remember this particular Little Golden Book from my childhood, though I may have read it and just forgot.
The elephant in the story gets harassed by a parrot who says he looks like his skin doesn't fit, unlike all the other animals he was partying with.
So, predictably, he's hurt and tries to find (possibly painful and dangerous) ways to be like everyone else, until he joins up with other elephants whose skin is as baggy as his and he realizes he's fine the way he is.
But on the other hand, even if there weren't others like the elephant in the book, surely he could have still found a way to work toward self-acceptance.
Not my favorite of the Little Golden Books collection.
Gorgeous illustrations of course and oh my, this little elephant is so cute I want to adopt him and give him a home in my suburban Sydney backyard.
However, there are some issues worth addressing: There are several animals threatening to bite bits off the elephant or simply devour him whole, which is a bit too graphic for a little child's imagination in my opinion.
Secondly, the message rubbed me the wrong way ever so slightly.
In the end (spoiler ahead) the elephant meets other elephants and that makes him feel "accepted".
But why did he have to find others LIKE him to feel accepted?
If this Little Golden book was read to me as a child I have no memory of the story. Being a fan of elephants I'm partial to the illustrations and, of course, anything with the Little Golden book trademark has nostalgic appeal. The tale itself is a familiar one, akin to the ugly duckling story. Were this message not so currently in vogue I may have enjoyed it more. As it is, I found it merely fair to middling.
Simply adorable. As the little elephant did not know he was an elephant I loved it when he said "I'd better hide in a dark place where my bags and sags and creases and wrinkles won't show".
great fun story my kids and then my grandkids have all enjoyed reading and having read to them.
Classic golden book that I remember being read to me as a child. I love that I now get to share it with my boys.
This seemed sort of juvenile. And I could not relate to any of the characters.
Another of the handful of Little Golden Books that are priceless. About being comfortable in your own skin.
Cute classic childhood book.
In our read aloud(s) today with the kids, I was asking them questions about the books I had brought and read.
When one of the boys asked me what I use to read when I was their age.
I remember the pictures and the story and how fun it was--plus elephants at the time were my favorite animal!
I'm really glad the kids asked me that question and I was able to take a look back because sometimes as adults we loose sight of what shaped us into who we are today and those stories play a huge role in our childhood(s).
The Saggy Baggy Elephant, written by K.
Jackson, follows Sooki, the elephant on his journey to find himself.
He asks all the animals he comes across if they know what he is, or how he could get his skin to be tighter, but none of their ideas work.
Sooki lets out a bellow, and with that comes a herd of elephants.
This is a great story full of beautiful, colorful, pictures of many different animals.
Children will love to hear the story of Sooki and how he finally found his home.
Sooki the baby elephant loved to dance until one day he met a parrot.
The parrot told him that none of his features fit his body and that his skin was saggy and baggy.
The parrot laughed at the elephant's appearance.The baby elephant tried everything to make his skin fit.
Everytime he tried something new, he ran into danger and was forced to run away.
Sooki let out a loud trumpet, he heard a loud commotion as a herd of elephants came to his rescue.
Sooki was so happy that he began to dance again.
This is another Little Golden Book illustrated by Gustaf Tenggren -- he had quite a prolific career as a LGB illustrator -- so the artwork is extraordinary and extraordinarily good.
I liked the tiger and elephant illustration that was used for the front cover, but the best illustration in the book has to be the line of dancing elephants.
I don't know how the very young elephant ended up on his own in the first place, but it is always wonderful when you find out where you do belong, even if there are dangers and distractions along the way.
It's the first book my parents ever read to me.
It probably drove them nuts, reading the same story night after night until I fell asleep.
This and the other books in the "The Little Golden Books" series like "The Little Red Hen" and "The Poky Little Puppy" instilled in me my love of reading.
Just like reading now, these stories allowed my imagination to take hold.
It's probably because I'm reading Tess Gerritsen's latest novel, "Die Again," which is set partly in Africa.
I'm sure glad this is not the story my parents read to me.
So, we've got this guy dancing through the forest.
One two three KICK.
One two three KICK.
He's saggy.
He's baggy.
Aaaaaand...
he's an elephant!
Not that he knows it.
All he knows is that he's getting laughed at for being so saggy and baggy, so he's gonna try to shrink himself.No, not by talking to the tiger - you'll just get eaten up.
No, not by soaking in the river - you'll get eaten up by crocodiles.
Maybe hiding is the answer?
Nope, you'll get eaten up by lions.
The tale of the saggy baggy elephant was one of my favorites as a child.
The poor little elephant Sooki is at first an innocent carefree creature of the forest, that is until confronted by a saucy parrot who makes him feel uncomfortable in his own skin, literally.
Determined to become normal, Sooki sets out encountering sly and dangerous animals around every corner.
Eventually however after meeting a whole heard of saggy baggy elephants, he comes to learn that being yourself is more than enough.
Such a good story, I fond the vocabulary to be slightly outdated but nonetheless a timeless story.
As a child I remember not liking this book all so much.... in particular I remember the picture with the elephant floating with his round belly sticking up. I have no clue why I didn't like this book. I just remember a negative feeling. Now I read it with my children I think it's a lovely book teaching children to be happy with who they are. Maybe I was having such issues as a child, who knows.
Honestly I rated this a 3 because I liked it more than my children did. By the time by 2 boys were able to understand the moral/ meaning they were more in to superheroes and dinosaurs etc. My daughter liked and understood it but it wasn't one of her favorites(but as the last of three children and 17 grandchildren she had a ton of books to choose from). As a parent I give it 5 stars... But from my children's view....1.
I am buying books for my five month old nephew for Christmas. The Saggy Baggy Elephant was one that I remember liking it but didn't remember too much about.... It's a cute book. Is the theme about being true to yourself and not listening to people? Maybe. I like the story of a baby elephant and I hope that the most beautiful nephew in the world will also enjoy it in time.
I would give this book one and a half stars. The lesson is good for readers that are beginning to appreciate the content of books that are read to them, and the story is humorous and quite memorable, especially considering its brevity. Additionally, the understated illustrations by Gustav Tenggren are a nice touch. The drawing of the crocodile in the water is phenomenal!!!
This is a cute story of an elephant who doesn't know he's an elephant. He dances in the jungle, but leaves destruction behind. A parrot scolds him so the elephant sets out to try to fit in since he has saggy skin. He eventually finds his family when he cries for help from being eaten by a lion. It is then he finds out he is an elephant.
The lesson in this book is one every person should learn. Love yourself no matter what you look like. There are other people just like you, and you should never get down on yourself no matter what. The way the elephant found the herd was just too cute! He almost got eaten a few times but overcame so much in such a short time. Now he can be happy with himself.
This is a very sweet little picture book all about an elephant who doesn't think to be ashamed until somebody tells him to be. He frantically tries to figure out how to look like he now thinks he is supposed to, until he finds his own people and realizes he is happy in his skin. That parrot is a jerk.
This little elephant has been dancing around the jungle and is just being itself until a parrot tells the elephant it has never seen a thing such as it. Then the elephant is self concious and tries to justify that it is not ugly and weird. This book teaches you that it is ok to be different from everyone else and that you should just embrace it.
I love the lesson it teaches, about accepting yourself and finding those who will accept you while not letting others' judgments do any harm. The back of the book says this is the abridged version, so I'm curious what the original was like.
We're working our way through the 'must read/know' children's books. We'd never read this before and they all loved it. They laughed and roared and had a great time with it.We'll be reading this again I'm sure.
Pauvre petit éléphant dont le perroquet se moque à cause de sa peau tombante et bouffante "Saggy and baggy". Il rencontre d'autres animaux de la forêt plus élégants que lui mais qui veulent tous le manger. En voyant d'autres éléphants, il apprend à s'aimer.
