https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/984665.Miss_Brill
Pride comes before a fall, or so the saying goes. Miss Brill, the pompous and condescending old lady finds this out when she is seen as one of those weirdo eccentrics who sit in the park and talk to themselves. And she suddenly realises her place in the world.Good story, well told, very sad. I hope it doesn't happen to me.
It's difficult for me to describe why I love Katherine Mansfield's short stories so much. Their vibrations fit my vibrations I guess. This story has a simple premise, one identifiable character (Miss Brill), in a park setting, for one short afternoon. Yet Mansfield, in a few short pages bares the soul of this woman. Miss Brill is the Eleanor Rigby of short stories.
Whilst I enjoyed the short stories in here, I was surprised that  Bliss wasn’t included.
I don’t think this edition is very helpful to those looking for an introduction to Mansfield, I’d recommend starting with Bliss.
The main story in here is called Miss Brill, and the character, Miss Brill, has built herself a little bubble to protect herself from reality; she has created a little fantasy life that is crumbling around her as her loneliness pushes in.
That being said though,  Bliss  is a much better short story.
I shall post a short review after reading each one.
The main story here is the story of a lady that spends her time listening into people’s conversations as she sits in the park, and then she begins creating her own imaginary world as her loneliness becomes more evident.
My favourite of her stories (Bliss) was not shown here, that one would have definitely put this short collection into the four-stars range.
The main story here is about an old lady and how the fantasy world she has created is caving around her as her loneliness seeps through.
It is about her finding her place in the world after being judgmental of everyone else.
بعد از مدتها اون رو درآورده بود و بهش رسیده بود.Sitting on her usual bench at the Jardins Publiques, a public local garden, Miss Brill adjusted her fur and watched all of the people around her while a band played nearby.
Over the course of the story she imagines herself as part of an elaborate stage production in which she herself plays a vital role, but an encounter with a boy and girl who dismiss both her and the fur coat she cherishes – but that is actually quite shabby – forces her to reassess her place in the world and makes her retreat back home to her renewed loneliness and alienation.Ermine toque and Gentleman in greyErmine is a type of white fur and a toque is a type of woman’s hat.
I liked this story because it reminded me of myself. Not because of the fur or she lives through others,but because she likes to watch others and comment on them and even create stories about them when she does not know what is going on in their lives. The ending was very sad though because that rude boy made Miss Brill think she was unloved and sent her home crying. I mean, she wasn't hurting anyone by watching them and creating her fantasies, it just made her happy.
"And again, as always, he had the feeling he was holding something that never was quite his. Something too delicate, too precious, that would fly away once he let go." Katherine Mansfield got some serious skill. My God, she knows how to write a story for sure. In this Little Black Classic we get presented three of her short stories and each individually impressed me.I love good writing (duh). Give me some pretty, poetic phrases and I'll be all over you. Not everyone is capable of using the righ
In this Little Black Classic we get presented three of her short stories and each individually impressed me.I love good writing (duh).
Not everyone is capable of using the right words, but Katherine Mansfield is able to go beyond that - and write smart stories.
It's a bit like she's trying to convince herself that the life she's living is fulfilling, but you know better.
Including little stories from "around the world and across many centuries" as the publisher describes, I have been intrigued to read those for a long time, before finally having started.
This book contains three of her stories - Marriage à La Mode, Miss Brill, and The Stranger.Out of the three, Marriage à La Mode was my absolute favourite.
I found it cutting and funny, and a great comment on society and personal identity.
It was an incredibly clever story, and one I would highly recommend everyone check out.
Miss Brill, the title story, was sweet but ultimately quite sad, and the final story The Stranger, although my least favourite of the three, was a great look at marital jealousy.I'm glad I picked up this mini collection, and am looking forward to reading The Montana Stories in September.
Miss Brill reminded me of myself and I was surging with happiness that an author could put in to words the feelings I get-which seem so hard to explain to people who are often completely inside their heads and overly cynical-every other day.
When I read the young couple judging her, I teared up.
I know what it feels like to wear something-deemed weird by many- just because you like it and to be truly happy with just simply living-in your own little, content world-and have someone flatten your esteem.What's worse is when this feeling is a huge part of your personality...
A wonderfully melancholy collection of 3 short stories. All 3 had an element of naivete about the protagonist, something like an air of innocence that becomes tainted before the story is over. It is the shattering of the gentle illusions that left me as a reader feeling a pang of loss on their behalf. Mansfield has a flair for moody domestic scenes, and I will definitely seek out her other work.
Mansfield's writing is delicate and elegant, and her depiction of the characters is always fine and detailed, but in an attentive and never-too-revealing way, which makes them more real and human, as well ever-changing (something I really like about her style).What the three stories have in common is the theme of communication/understanding, or rather the lack of it, which eventually brings us to the theme of loneliness. Here again, she manages to be delicate and witty without being dramatic, and hermetic without spoiling the flow of the story.This is short story at its best.
Katherine Mansfield and three little sad stories so lyrical written that I wanted more. I love sadness when it's beautifully written, sue me!
All three stories in this small collection have a turning point in which the main character feels himself or herself to be an outsider - to be on the fringe of things, to be absurd, even mocked, to be unloved. Mansfield has a light touch, but her conclusions can be quite devastating. Although Miss Brill is in some ways the least substantial story, its poison dart is most effective. It gets at a human fear that I think most of us feel at one time or another: the fear of being superfluous, not wanted, not seen.
Miss Birll ^^why on earth i love Miss birll?
I don't know -.- i just loved this short story and didn't think twice in giving it 5 points..Miss Birll is a true example of how community deals with old people and how they think about themselves.old people are very simple, if they knew that people are paying attention to them they will be so happy.
we neglect them, make fun of them and hurt them without blinking or eyes...the story really touched me deeply..
the symbols all over the story made the idea even clearer to me and i really loved it^^
This is a wonderful selection of stories about sad everyday human events. If a story needs to be singled out it would be Miss Brill this little narrative is a beautiful creation of the life of Miss Brill and her regular Sunday out.Katherine Mansfield has mastered the art of the everyday mundane events as something wonderful. A gentleman checking his watch waiting for his wifes' boat to come in means more than it should.Definately a writer who needs to be read more.Absolutely delightful.
Three short stories made with the finest ingredients of the genre - creeping undercurrents that remain half-hidden to the last word, the human soul at a glance, setting up a whole spectrum of moods in the span of 10 to 20 pages, a perfect measure of everything. Exquisite. Off to the rest of The Garden Party and Other Stories.2015 Reading Challenge: A book set somewhere you've always wanted to visit
It's very symbolic
stories of loneliness and sorrow... of what we want to hold on but as it does not belong to us, it will escape us forever...
No. 48 is Edith Wharton's “The Reckoning,” and Katherine Mansfield's lonely, dysfunctional characters in the three short stories here – “Marriage a la Mode,” “Miss Brill,” and “The Stranger” -- resonate intriguingly against Wharton's portrayals of women who, while terribly isolated, nevertheless refuse to subside in complete silence.
Mansfield's Isabel, in “Marriage a la Mode,” is much like Wharton's Julia in “The Reckoning,” but, seen at a different place along her trajectory, appears far less sympathetic (additionally, the dispositions of the women's husbands shows Julia in a softer light).
This is another title I was introduced to via audio - this time downloaded from LibriVox. It is from a book of short stories by Katherine Mansfield, called "The Garden Party," which I am now anxious to find.Miss Brill is the main character in a story about a woman who visits the park in her small town every Sunday.
On the Sunday in the story, we learn about her little idiosyncracies before and after going to the park, sitting on the same bench, and watching those around her.
The LibriVox version is read nicely, and the language Mansfield uses is very evocative of time and place.
I see that many people find Miss Brill to be pompous and looking down her nose at the little people 'coming from their cupboards' I didnt find that at all as all these characters on the stage were so valuable to her.
There is equal footing in this family of stage characters.
It is heart breaking to realize that something that is integral to the happiness in your life is essentially garbage to someone else.
Seems like she thought more that she shared something common with them and they were endeared to her.
Then find they don't feel the same.
Hopefully she can return and not feel ashamed.
This could possibly be my favorite story ever written. Though short Mansfield manages to impart more meaning and emotion into a few short pages then most can in a epic novel. Though not the happiest of short stories it's rich images made feel almost like i was the character herself
Beautiful little story that deals with loneliness and the desperate desire to connect. I will definitely check out some more of Mansfield's work.
Withholding from saying much, I’ll just say this: undoubtedly anyone will find Miss Brill short story very relatable at one point or another in his/her life. (if not repeatedly )
I loved all of the stories!I'd never read Katherine Mansfield before, but holy moly guys....
I'm not even really into short stories and I absolutely loved them all.
I really wanted all three to continue, they were that good.
I don't want to give too much away and feel like her stories are better experienced first hand than summarised by me.It's $2 worth of beautiful prose and characters that are far more developed than some authors manage to write in entire books.
I'm getting my hands on more of Katherine Mansfield's work as soon as possible...
I did so much enjoy these New Zealand short stories, though I'm not certain why. Written well, but often subtle and vague, which often infuriates me. Occasionally with pointless moments, but also of the kind that speak to you across the ages.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
A beautifully sad story about a woman who doesn't belong in society. She criticizes and pities others for being odd, silent, outsiders and then realises that she herself is an odd, silent, outsider. Beautiful symbolism and comparisons.
"The air was motionless, but when you opened your mouth there was just a faint chill, like a chill from a glass of iced water before you sip, and now and again a leaf came drifting—from nowhere, from the sky.”Mansfield's writing about early fall is poetic and rich.
A rare third person omniscient. I liked it for my literature class.
I need more Katherine Mansfield in my life! Her writing is not only superb, she also has this talent of capturing characters in a really subtle way. Loved the stories and can only recommend them!
