https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3297175-and-the-hippos-were-boiled-in-their-tanks
Written in 1945, the story is based on their friend Lucian Carr who murdered another friend of everyone's at that time.Burroughs would write one chapter and Kerouac would write the other.
If one just read the chapters or book you would notice the style of the writing right away.
In other words it is very Burroughs and very Kerouac.
The great thing about the book more than anything else is that it captures Manahattan life among the boho's of 1945.
The bars, the characters, the life style, etc.
It's characters represent Kerouac, Burroughs, Carr, Kammerer and others that were part of their group of friends.
For those of you that don't know about the Beat Generation of writers, Kerouac, Burroughs,and Ginsberg.
Kammerer always talked about his love for Lucien to Burroughs and his frustration that he had never scored with him.Yet, there is evidence that Lucien and Allan Ginsberg were intimate several times.
This book tells the story from the perspective of two men that were close friends of both the victim and the murderer.
Both this book and the movie Kill Your Darlings (my favorite movie of 2013) show Lucien Carr to be an arrogant, egotistical cockteaser.
The best part about this early beat novel is contrasting the temperaments of the two narrators: Kerouac comes off as a naive little boy catching fireflies, while Burroughs is a grumpy old junkie codger squashing the fireflies and grumbling to himself about how stupid they were for flying near him.
Burroughs/Dennison, after speaking positively of each man individually in the first chapter, explains, “when they get together something happens, and they form a combination which gets on everybody’s nerves.” The combination proved to be ultimately toxic as well as annoying and the novel follows the real life events—altered and embroidered in some ways known to us as matter of deviation from public record and in others known only to Carr and Kammerer—of Tourian/Carr killing Allen/Kammerer, dumping his body in the Hudson river, and after confessing dramatically to Dennison/Burroughs and to Ryko/Kerouac, resulting in some drunken deliberation, turning himself in to the authorities with a plea of self defense.So why bother to read a work that comes nowhere near the level of Junkie, Naked Lunch or—to throw Kerouac’s ghost a bone here—On the Road?
Δεν είναι τόσο η υπόθεση, δεν είναι ο τρόπος γραφής ούτε ότι διαβάζεις εναλλάξ δυο συγγραφείς που έχουν το δικό τους φωτοστέφανο. Είναι που τελειώνοντας το βιβλίο τα χεις μυρίσει όλα, έχεις μπει στο κλίμα της εποχής και της κατάστασης, τόσο ώστε σου φαίνονται φυσιολογικές οι αντιδράσεις και οι σκέψεις των ηρώων.
Porter changes his voice throughout the book reflecting the different authors.
Kerouac and Burroughs alternate in telling the story of the death of Ramsey Allen.
Like many of Kerouac's real life writings, the characters are real but their names are changed.
Kerouac is Mike Ryko and Burroughs goes by Will Dennison.
Ryko and Dennison tell the fictionalized story of mid-1940s New York City friends.
Burrough's recalled the radio news story where the announcer said "and the hippos were boiled in their tanks." This book was written in 1945 but not published until 2008 and was met with unimpressive reviews for its literary style.
Burroughs, in collaboration, this is a book of great literary significance, especially to anybody with an interest in the Beat Movement.The two writers wrote a chapter each, alternately, and read their chapters aloud to each other before the other started work on the next one.
Anybody familiar with either writer's work would easily be able to tell which chapters were written by which writer, even if they weren't told from the point of view of the fictionalised version of themselves.
To anybody a bit more familiar with the Beat Movement the rest of the cast of characters are also recognisable, as this entire book is based on actual events...
Read this in a day!
It's a quick read.
Right after this I watched Kill Your Darlings.
I somehow got so immersed in this Beat culture all I can say is "This is great!" when maybe it's not.
Great glimpses of New York in the forties, especially having to dress nice and how you got treated if you didn't.
They also ate glass.
Like bite into yout cocktail glass and start chewing.
(Jack and Will are unwitting accomplices when Lucius Carr kills David Kammerer though this account is very fictionalized.) Maybe it was good therapy (along with alcohol and heroin).
Akımın başlamasını tetikleyenlerden şeylerden biri, Lucien Carr'ın işlediği cinayetti ve bu cinayetin perde arkası, Ginsberg'ün ve Kerouac'in hemen hemen her eserini etkilemişti.Ve Hipopotamlar Tanklarında Haşlandılar, 1944 yılında, Jack Kerouac ve William S.
Kitap, altmış yıl kadar bir süre yayınlanmıyor; ancak Beat Kuşağı başlayıp, yazarların kitapları büyük bir yankı uyandırdıktan ve Lucien Carr öldükten sonra, Ve Hipopotamlar Tanklarında Haşlandılar, gün yüzüne çıkıyor."Evet," dedim, "ama sen bir sanatçısın.
Ben akımın felsefesine, yazarların yaşamlarına ve yazış tarzlarına kocaman gözlerle baktığımdan, keyifli bir deneyim oldu.Aykırı akıma ve yazarlarına ilginiz varsa, biraz tanıyorsanız ya da belki eserlerini okumuşsanız, Hipopotamlar Tanklarında Haşlandılar'ı okumanızı öneririm.
E non poteva essere altrimenti.Questo strano, modesto, iperrealistico e nudo romanzo a quattro mani restituisce perfettamente quello che fu il nucleo originario della beat, a cominciare dall'ambientazione caotica e quasi bohémien della New York degli anni Quaranta: pub, salotti, locali per omosessuali, navi in partenza, e lontana, come il gracidare della radio in sottofondo, la guerra.
Una guerra innocua, che sembra esserci sempre stata, al punto da non scoraggiare affatto il sogno di Jack e Lucien di salpare verso Parigi.Narrativamente aggiunge ben poco alle figure ben note dei suoi due scrittori; stilisticamente è acerbo come solo un romanzo d'esordio non pubblicato può essere.
Kerouac and Burroughs wrote this novel together, writing alternate chapters, in 1945 when they were unknowns.
Like all of Kerouac's and Burroughs' writing, this story was based upon a factual happening, a murder.
Kerouac married his girlfriend, Edie (Janie in the story) so that her family would bail him out of jail.
This bit about getting bailed out wasn't in the story, but it may have been the most interesting part.The story was set in NY during 1944.
I gave it 4 stars because Kerouac, for me, can do no wrong (except maybe Big Sur), not even getting married to get out of jail.
The book tells the story of a murder committed by a friend of theirs while they were young and living in New York.
It seems written straight out of youthful exuberance and aggression, testosterone gleaming in the ink.The writing is raw and has the beginnings of the voices we're used to from these two writers.
It's billed as a murder mystery, but there's no mystery at all (unless you count trying to assign the characters to the people they represent in real life, which the afterword does quite nicely).
It's really a story of youth and excess that captures a Greenwich Village of another time and tells of boys and their wars.
It doesn't make you feel superior but depressed and scared, because there is nobody you can contact.” And The Hippos Were Boiled In Their Tanks  is a fictionalized account of David Kammerer’s murder by Lucien Carr in 1943, cowritten by Jack Kerouac and William Burroughs.
What exactly went on between Carr and Kammerer is the subject of endless speculation, but both Kerouac and Burroughs were dragged into the case and the Beats were shaken by it.
It’s not the best thing the Beat literature has to offer, but as with all of Kerouac’s books, I can’t help but notice how alive his writing is.
The murder of David Kammerer by Lucien Carr is a well-documented event in the Beat Generation and for anyone who isn’t familiar with it, you can read about it here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucien_CarrAnyways, this is a novel of alternating Kerouac and Burroughs chapters narrating life and the course of events leading up to the murder from their own points of view, which often coincide in the book.It was written over an entire year between 1944 and 1945 over a decade before either man had ever been published and thus it shows both of them at a time when they still hadn’t really mastered their own styles.
This book was above all else an interesting bit of literary history.
It was written in the mid 1940s, almost a full ten years before Kerouac and Burroughs became famous.
It is written from the perspective of two characters, Dennison and Ryko, written by Burroughs and Kerouac respectively.
It is fascinating to read their early work, and to see their styles play off one another.
The whole thing seems to lead to nowhere, and even after the murder takes place, nothing changes and nothing is done.
Although it can be a bit slow, ultimately Hippos is a fascinating read.
Well, I've thought about it a lot and I think it's only fair that it gets no more than that, despite Kerouac's marvelous storytelling (Burroughs was ever so clever as well.) The big story behind the book, which was based on real events, took a long time to come through - somewhere towards the end.
I was shuffling through the pages waiting for the big 'whoop!' and even though I knew the story beforehand, the way it was told was nothing short of gripping.
It's like reading the news, but better.
DNF at 37%This is so incredibly slow moving and dull, I just can't bring myself to read any more. I don't care about any of the characters, the writing is uninspiring and nothing has happened so far apart from a load of dudes getting drunk and talking about shipping out.
Well, you can't say /nothing/ happens, I mean, they eat glass within the first 10 pages and there's, of course, murder.
It almost beggars belief that they were just in the incipient stages of their soon-to-be-great literary careers, when they wrote this fascinating story which affected them all in a deep way.Kerouac was said to have had a photographic memory (whence his childhood knickname 'Memory Babe') and after reading this book, I have no doubt whatsoever that that was very very true.
SPOILER ALERT!Basic story: Lucien Carr was stalked by Kammerer, a homosexual in love with Carr and constantly lusting after him, who was, incidentally, a heterosexual friend of many of the beats including Kerouac, Burroughs and Ginsberg.
The Burroughs chapters have all of his trademark wry, black humor, and the Kerouac chapters lack some of his poetry but retain his pathos.The afterward detailing the history of this novel and why it couldn't be published for over sixty years is a worthy read in and of itself.one of my favorite bits:"I had the feeling that all over America such stupid arguments were taking place on street corners and in bars and restaurants.
And I thought someday everyone in America will suddenly jump up and say "I don't take any shit!" and start pushing and cursing and clawing at the man next to him." -- from one of the William S Burroughs chapters
Though definitely an invaluable literary artifact and of interest to Beat junkies, this is little more than that. Good literature? No, not even approaching the skill and depth of the authors' later works. Interesting, though, and a good story--how could it not be, based on facts? Just severely lacking on the technical side. There's a reason this wasn't published, there's a reason this wasn't the book that made either Kerouac or Burroughs famous, and honestly? It's better that way.Still, a must-read for any enthusiasts to add to their collection.
Da okej, slatko je što su B i K odali počast svojim hipsterskim frendićima Carru i Kammereru i njihovoj ljubavnoj tragediji i opisali svoje međusobno, prepotentno zgubidarenje, lokanje i drogsanje dok čitaju Yeatsa i Eliota, prije nego što su postali poznati Beatovci ali, really wtf?Gdje je tu umjetnost kojoj oni toliko teže?
Najlakše je napucat se morfijem i onda biti pisac/slash/umjetnik i pisat 12 sati u komadu da bi nastalo ovako nešto.
Ne da mi se čitat što piju i žderu na cca 200 stranica.Burroughs je još nekako i podnošljiv, valjda zbog te svoje cinične face pa mu je i pisanje 'ajde ali ipak NE, ali Kerouac...
Ako je Kerouac uspio kao pisac, onda može svatko.
Beat generation at its finest.
Благородно завиждам на тези, които ще я четат за първи път."„А хипопотамите се сварили в басейна си” в голямата си част е автобиографичен роман, родил се след убийството, дало началото на бийт епохата.
Камърър е сляпо и болезнено увлечен по него - до вманиачаване и заплаща за това с живота си.След убийството, преди да се предаде, Кар търси помощ първо от Бъроуз, после от Керуак (с когото крият уликите).
Tuttavia ecco, forse questo ritratto del segmento "perduto" della nostra generazione, cinico, onesto e di una realtà strabiliante me l'aspettavo un attiminimo più sofferto, pensato, ragionato.
La sensazione successiva all'aver letto la postfazione di Grauerholz è del tutto positiva, ed è gradevole il poter conoscere dalla mano di chi i nostri protagonisti li ha conosciuti davvero il reale svolgersi dei fatti, con consecutive conseguenze; è tuttavia un romanzo da prendere alla leggera, ed è più che possibile io mi fossi aspettata qualcosa di più elaborato.
The strange case of Lucien Carr and David Kammerer.
Murder, almost without consequence, unlike The Stranger, and Hippos makes for a pretty good companion piece - what with the matter-of-fact nearly emotionless aspects of the material, and how the social mores impact the punishment.
Hippos was written (in 1945) about the same time as The Stranger, and before Camus' English translation.
Hippos is a real case, though.
One interesting footnote - author Caleb Carr is the son of Lucien.
The introduction to this book mentions that "Hippos" existed for years in manuscript form, buried under floor boards.
They had "no form or beauty that we should desire them." The protagonists spend the entirety of the book trolling about the underbelly of Greenwich Village: ripping people off, sleeping around and being lazy.
If I like the cover of a book I'll be more inclined to carry it around, which means I'll be more inclined to read it.
With a little bit of editing and some good characters this could've been the long lost beat gem that some people make it out to be.
And The Hippos was the first Kerouac novel I've read and through having no previous knowledge about the author or the Beats time period, I was mostly in awe of the scenes described in the book.
The stories told inclosed scandal and all kinds of fun absurdity about travels and life in Greenwich Village in the 1940's.
My favorite aspect of the form of storytelling throughout Hippos was how the characters that one would't initially be inclined to adore in the story where the ones narrating.
The main fun relatable characters were the ones whose story was being told, which in retrospect, makes absolute sense.
I think one of the main reasons why I didn't reaaaally liked this book was because I read a portuguese version of it and the translation was not one the best let's say...
looks like there was some juicy details I was missing...One of my first thoughts was that this book, like all the others I read on both authors, sounded pretty biographical (I enhance the fact I had no idea it actually was!).
So this is the story of Lucien Carr and David Kammerer that ended up with one killing the other.
There is a movie about it: Kill your darlings wanna see it!
this book is a recounting of actual events: the case of lucien carr.
that is the one thing that started the beat generation in 1944.
this book is a fictionalized version of that event; it wasn’t published until after lucien carr died in 2005 because he didn’t want this to be a part of his life anymore - i can see why.
i liked this book.
there are a lot of things i can say about this issue but I think i don't want to think too much into it.
i think every beat generation fan (or anyone who likes kerouac and/or ginsberg) should read this.
