https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/292419.The_Confidential_Agent
346. The Confidential Agent, Graham GreeneThe Confidential Agent (1939) is a thriller novel by British author Graham Greene. Fueled by Benzedrine, Greene wrote it in six weeks. To avoid distraction, he rented a room in Bloomsbury from a landlady who lived in an apartment below him. He used that apartment in the novel (it's where D. hides for a day) and had an affair with the landlady's daughter. He wrote the book for money and was so displeased with his work that he wanted it published under a p
The Confidential Agent, Graham GreeneThe Confidential Agent (1939) is a thriller novel by British author Graham Greene.
Fueled by Benzedrine, Greene wrote it in six weeks.
To avoid distraction, he rented a room in Bloomsbury from a landlady who lived in an apartment below him.
He used that apartment in the novel (it's where D.
But critics took a far different view; The New York Times, for example, called the novel "a magnificent tour-de-force."Plot: D, a former university professor speaking perfect English, is sent by his government, two years into a vicious civil war, on a secret mission to buy coal in England.
He wrote the book for money and was so displeased with his work that he wanted it published under a pseudonym." -(wiki sourced)It was an enjoyable listen, yet I would have to agree with Greene to some extent, it is a little 'odd'.2* The Man Within (1929)TR Stamboul Train3* A Gun for Sale (1936)4* Brighton Rock (1938)3* The Confidential Agent (1939)3* The Power and the Glory (1940)4* The Ministry of Fear (1943)2* The Heart of the Matter (1948)3* The Third Man (1948)4* The End of the Affair (1951)TR Complete Short Stories (1954)3* The Quiet American (1955)3* Our Man in Havana (1958)4* A Burnt Out Case (1960)5* The Comedians (1965)4* Travels With My Aunt (1969)3* The Honorary Consul (1973)4* The Human Factor (1978)4* Doctor Fischer of Geneva or The Bomb Party (1980)4* Monsignor Quixote (1982)WL The Tenth Man3* The Captain and the Enemy (1988)
This is Greene at his best, providing a gnashing noir, a tale of chase and deception.
The Confidential Agent distills the fears of the late 1930s, people are being driven to an almost post-human ignobility.
Attempting to stay above the feral pragmatism, an agent known as D.
makes his way to England.
The timeframe and circumstances suggest The Spanish Civil War, but the details blur into a generic European nightmare.
D. is a classics professor and the reader feels for his obsolescence in these dark times.
Greene provides no relief and actually mocks the possibility of a sentimental response or conclusion.
Many a long and weary year ago I read a fair few Greene books. This one has a nice grimy atmosphere and a very real uncertainty about who, if anyone, can be trusted. The Esperanto lesson always seemed like a nice touch, invented stories, pretended loyalties, unreal language, no end of deceptions.
This is a lot of fun. A fuddy-duddy lecturer, D, comes to England as the confidential agent. Only he seems pretty incapable and scared of his own shadow. He befriends a young woman, and the pair grow humorously close as they face constant danger and espionage. D gradually finds the courage and conviction he needs. A well-written thriller and on of my favourites out of Greene's "less serious" works.
It is a joy and pleasure to read what he has written.“The Confidential Agent” was written by Greene, as one of his entertainments, in the late 1930’s and gives a wonderful evocation of what London must have been like then with inclement weather, foreign intrigue and a sense of impending doom.The story of D a confidential agent given the job of securing coal supplies for his government, as it battles a civil war, is intriguing from start to finish, with plot twists and turns throughout the story, which will have you absorbed until the end.A great story by a master writer.
When Edgar Dominguez is sent to England on a mission to arrange a supply of coal for the Republicans in the Spanish Civil War it seems a straightforward business negotiation; but no sooner does he set foot on English soil than he finds himself a hunted man, with seemingly no one he can trust and implicated in murder.Greene wrote The Confidential Agent at the same time as his masterpiece The Power and The Glory.
A tense thriller where the hero must avoid trap after trap that is set for him haunted by the memory of his dead wife and his own time in prison awaiting execution.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b07x1rcthttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt0037610/?...
The Confidential Agent (1939) by Graham Greene is surprisingly good.
It would make a good companion read to The Ministry of Fear (1943) which is another wonderful Graham Greene book written during the WW2 era.
The Confidential Agent is one of Graham Greene’s “entertainments”, and despite its twisty and somewhat implausible plot, it's more profound than many other writers’ more ambitious works.Another five star read from Graham Greene - and highly recommended.
"It was absurd, of course, to feel afraid, but watching the narrow stooping back in the restaurant he felt as exposed as if he were in a yard with a blank wall and a firing squad."Graham Greene famously wrote The Confidential Agent, fueled by Benzedrine, in parallel to The Power and the Glory.
The Confidential Agent was first published in 1939, ten years after his first novel The Man Within, and knowing of Greene's life and career, it is still an "early" work.
In this regard, Greene’s tale is like those of his contemporary, Eric Ambler, and later writers such as Alan Furst, who inhabit the same shady and treacherous underworld of pre-World War II Europe.But this is Graham Greene.
This is Greeneland.So while The Confidential Agent meets all of the requirements of a thriller, nevertheless, it has that twinge of angst for which Graham Greene is famous.
He’s intimidated by the thought of personal violence even though he has suffered his share.I don’t know if there’s any Graham Greene book that I wouldn’t recommend.
Thus, if you’re looking for something both entertaining and more considerate, you will likely enjoy Graham Greene’s The Confidential Agent.
I sometime read some spy novels by John le Carre and found his structure like this; however, I don’t know who first invented it in the writing world.Incidentally, I would not try to tell you everything I think after reading this book, rather I would say something from what I scribbled in pencil of course on some pages with my remarks.
… She looked back at him through the glass with disgust; he realized that he was still bleeding heavily.The manager said, ‘Leave Miss Cullen alone.’He said gently, ‘It’s only a few teeth gone.
In the introduction of this book Graham Greene confessed that the book was written as an entertainment designed to appeal to enough people to leave his family financially secure in case he died in WWII and secondly that to get the energy to push it out while writing the power and the glory he consumed large quantities of amphetimines.
What would ones favourite authors produce if they ingested large quantities of recreational drugs and what would be the impact of trying differnt drugs have been.
Reading the book in the present day I was impressed by the broody atmosphere so expertly conjured by Graham Greene.
گراهام گرين در دوم اكتبر 1904 به دنيا آمد. او چهارمين فرزند از شش فرزندي بودكه «چارلز هنري» و «ماريون» گرين داشتند. پدر وي چارلز هنري گرين رئيس مدرسه «برك همستند»[1:] بود. برادرش «هيو» تا مدير كلي شبكةبيبيسي ترقي كرد. برادر ديگرش «ريموند» يكي از كوهنوردان مشهوري بود كه توانست در سال 1933 قلة اورست را فتح كند.گرين در مدرسة پدرش و سپس در آكسفورد تحصيل كرد. وي نوشتن را از مجلات دانشآموزي آغاز كرد. اولين مجموعة شعر وي به نام «آوريل سرايي»[2:] در سال آخر حضورش در آكسفورد به چاپ رسيد پس از فارغالتحصيل
به هر حال گرين اين هتل را به هتل «كانتيننتال»[17:] كه معمولاً‌ توسط خبرنگاران مورد استفاده قرار مي‌گرفت، ترجيح داد.هتل مجلل (مجستيك) كه در سال 1928 ساخته شده بود به زندگي دلخواه گرين به عنوان يكي از نويسندگان ثروتمند و مشهور آن زمان سازگارتر بود تا محل سكونت «تام فولر» قهرمان داستان آمريكايي آرام كه اتاقي رنگ و رو رفته در خيابان پشتي بود.
اكنون اين ساختمان به هتلي به نام «مونديال» تبديل شده است.آخرين محل اقامت گرين در ويتنام هتل كانتنيتال بود كه براي چندين دهه محل تجمع روزنامه‌نگاران خارجي در محل مباحث سياسي بود.
I don't think this one holds up.
D is a confidential agent, a poor intellectual, who has come to post-war England to make a coal deal for the government of his unspecified Eastern European country.
On the boat he sees L, an upper-class confidential agent charged with the same mission and working for the rebels.
D's country is at civil war and the deal is vital to both sides to win the conflict.
L does everything in his power to stop D and is aided by D's constant bad luck as he encounters various British officials and members of the upper classes who are suspicious of D as a scruffy foreigner.
A friend of mine was being the "Christmas Culture Fairy" when she gave me this book for Christmas.
Sadly I have never read Greene before and this book was written in the 30s.
In my experience the language of many classics written pre 1950 has badly dated.
However I am happy to report that in the case of 'The Confidential Agent' that is not the case.This is an excellent book with a great plot that the narrative drives along at a wonderfully fast pace.It also has a rather nice twist at the end too.It looks like I may be reading more Graham Greene sometime soon
28 FEB 2016 - recommendation through Bettie. Thank you. A new lunchtime listen. Many thanks.
I seemed to be keenest on those he subtitled 'An Entertainment'. The inside of this one explains, "in order to distinguish it from more serious work." Hey. I thought his entertainments were great.
Greene apparently wrote it over 6 weeks while on speed and had no idea how the plot was going to work out before he wrote it.
There are also many coincidences, most of them somewhat improbable.Nonetheless, there is a world-weariness to it and Greene's acute observations on the naffness of Britain, which is probably why he chose to spend so much time out of the country.
I enjoyed it, but there is something a bit wrong with a thriller if you can make the final 40 odd pages last several days.
I was busy, it is true, but the story wasn't gripping in a page-turning sense.
Greene obviously deserves to be read at length.
This is one of Graham Greene’s self-styled “entertainments”, a label I’ve always found slightly irritating because it seems to contain more than a little false modesty.
In truth The Confidential Agent is, like pretty much everything else Greene wrote, very, very good.
I thought there were also strong nods to Kafka, not just in the naming of the secret agents as “D”, “L” and “K” but also in the borderline surreal, waking nightmarish atmosphere and the way in which faceless bureaucracies exercise their power through a succession of seemingly benign or hapless individuals.
So whilst undoubtedly entertaining there is as you would expect from Graham Greene a great deal else going on besides.
The book was written in 1939, and Greene has said that he had both the Spanish Civil War and the Munich Agreement in mind.The result is a dark story of politics and betrayal, set against a cold, gray background.
The Agent of the title, D., from a country embroiled in a bloody and drawn out civil war, becomes a hunted man as his simple but desperate mission to England is thwarted by a complex series of mischances and deliberate sabotages.
In the end, acceptance of this infuses him with a kind of reckless power that enables him to take the initiative - for a little while at least.The most Hannay-like character in The Confidential Agent is arguably not D.
D, ageing, professor of literature, ex-political prisoner, acts as a confidential agent on behalf of his brutal and corrupted government on a trip to London in this melancholy world-weary spy thriller. Greene has created a beautiful, polite, gentle antihero who is forced into violence as a response to the violence and deceit of others. Well-written, politically cynical, and moving.
I said to myself, “Well—that’s enough Graham Greene.” Then I watched one of my favorite movies of all time, The Third Man, starring Orson Wells; the story was from a Graham Greene book and I decided to give the author another go.
Packed full of adventure and humor, much like what you find in WW2 British and American propaganda films (think Hitchcock’s Foreign Correspondent or Casablanca), or even later, films like Raiders of the Lost Ark (although without the sci-fi elements.) Basic plot: a man in a foreign land, fighting for a just cause against an evil enemy.
With all these years between the book and its modern day readers, the backstory has little importance to the narrative—D.
Graham Greene writes about the unsaleability of a book called "The Power and the Glory".
So he writes this book in the mornings, then writes the "serious" novel in the afternoons; whilst helping dig trenches on London's commons with the war looming.
Greene achieves his aim of writing a page-turner, that has the same feeling of a Boy's Own romp as Dickens and with the same undertones of a serious work.
Dickens-like social observation as the war refugee D.
eyes the paper thin lives of the comfortably, smugly insulated English in a country that hadn't seen war on its shores for 250 years.
Still, the whole doesn't come together quite a strongly as what Greene would write afterwards.The tale of D, whose home country you never actually learn, though you can simply assume that it is any one of several unstable continental European countries, is one of a fish out of water.
I wouldn't, however, recommend it as a good introduction to an author who would later write some of the best novels of the 20th century.
گراهام گرین یکی از نویسندگانی ست که در زبان فارسی از لحاظ شرایط و مترجم گرفتار بدشانسی شده و آن گونه که شایسته اش بوده، به خواننده ی فارسی زبان معرفی نشده.
به عنوان مثال دو اثرش "مرد دهم" و "وزارت ترس" با نثر سنگین مترجم صاحب نامی چون پرویز داریوش به فارسی برگردانده شده که از زبان گراهام گرین فاصله ی بسیار دارد.
گویا این کتاب را خانم فرزانه ی طاهری به فارسی برگردانده.
این برگردان را ندیده ام اما خواندن توام با دقت کتاب را به علاقمندان توصیه می کنم.
It is tough to rate this. By modern standards it's slow-moving and the characters are quaint. There's unusual emphasis on the protagonist's motives, and a great effort is made to contrast his loyalty to the duplicity of all the other characters who are his countrymen. England seems safe to the foreign protagonist, but is in fact always dangerous. I think I may not be bright enough to appreciate this novel, or any of Greene's books, for that matter. Still, I had a good time reading it. After all, it's a mystery.
Graham Greene really knew how to write a sentence, and this book is full of startlingly good ones. He also knew how to craft a scene, and this book has some funny ones. That said, for one of his "entertainments" (the books Greene wrote that he didn't consider serious literary works) this book could be more entertaining. It's kind of dreary and angst-ridden.
Θαυμάσια γραμμένο με πολύ ωραίες φράσεις και νοήματα. Ο συγγραφέας μας δείχνει ένα άλλο κομμάτι του πολέμου, άγνωστο στους περισσότερους, μέσα από μια δυνατή ιστορία. Όσο για τον πρωταγωνιστή του βιβλίου, πραγματικά δένεσαι με τον χαρακτήρα του και τις σκέψεις του.
Atmospheric, unsentimental and sophisticated.
