https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221282.A_Tale_of_Three_Kings
I found this book in our Calvary bookstore a couple years ago and never started it, thinking it was an Old Testament study of the kings.
Instead, it is a wonderfully written story (in play form in Two Acts) with King Saul, King David and Absalom.
It was a call to remembrance of Who is in control and how to handle ourselves when the Christian life gets us down.
Hurting Christians should read this book, especially if you've been hurt by others within your fellowship.
We all should have the heart of David.
I love this line from the end of the book.
OK - you're hurting and confused about poor leadership.
So you go read a book about three kings: Saul, David, and Absolom.
It is like a play unfolding before you as you turn the pages.
Ah, there is Saul...
now that is the bad leader who is attacking me!
Ah, and there is David...
And then comes Absolom, but who is this?
The mirror rises and you see your own face.
The jury is still out, but don't be convinced yet if you are Saul, David, or Absolom...
but time may tell.
OUCH!
OUCH!
When I was a very young pastor in California, my uncle (also a pastor) met me on the highway just north of Fort Worth, Texas to give me a book I just had to read.
My wife and I had been home to Texas for a visit and when we returned to California, a huge challenge faced us.
There was a battle brewing, a power struggle in our young church.My wife started reading it aloud to me as we made the 1600-mile trek back to north central California.
It helped establish my philosophy of ministry and dealing with self-promoters and power-hungry people.
Doesn’t anybody ever wonder why pastors spend so much time and money pushing books to read that support their authority and discourage those who dissent?I have read a long list of books dealing with disagreements, disillusion, and splits in churches.
The very fact that this tale of three kings skips completely over those chapters tells me volumes about what the author was thinking when he wrote this book and what pastors are thinking when they hand it out to their unsuspecting congregations.
And here we see how those who question that pastor must get real good at defending themselves against those spears (using their own spear of scripture, which the author discourages).
Hmmm I think that maybe I completely missed the point of this?
At parts I was like “waaaait is that biblical?” but there wasn’t much that was definitive enough for me to clearly say “OK NOW THAT IS DEFINITELY UNBIBLICAL.” The author did seem to claim that God only uses broken people.
Which I don’t think is biblical, but it depends on what he means by “broken.” He never really defined exactly what this elusive “brokenness” was or what it looked like practically.
All in all, I wish the author would have been much more clear on what he was trying to say.
On the other hand, Edwards does not go far enough (in fact, he makes no real move) in the direction of showing that wicked men in church authority are to be removed from office according to the Scripture.
Sadly, in today's celebrity-driven religious right, the Evangelicals and Fundamentalists have removed those teachings from their church constitutions and by-laws.Edwards really endorses "brokenness" as a Christian virtue.
Now that I recognize that "brokenness" is never identified in Scripture as a virtue or a goal of our Sanctification in Christ, I am less enthusiastic about the book.
A great book about what to do in the midst of trials that seem unfair and obscure.
Especially, as we wonder who is "of God" and who is not.
God does not reveal who is anointed and we may never know.
What we do have is the choice to respond well.
This much, the book made clear.
I have definitely faced Saul's and Absolom's.
I can only hope to approach the courage of David and the where with all to stand what the way he did.
This is a great read and will draw you into the storyline.
God has this school because he does not have broken men and women.
He has people who claim to have God’s authority...
and don’t – people who claim to be broken...
And people who do have God’s authority, but who are (mad and) unbroken.
In God’s sacred school of submission and brokenness, why are there so few students?
(Excerpt from book)A Tale Of Three Kings by Gene Edwards is considered a modern classic of Christian literature.
I cannot recommend this book more highly to any person in ministry leadership, especially those who have at times struggled with the authority God has placed them under.
I went through a phase of intense bitterness/ cynicism/ dislike for many "Christian" authority figures. Alot of this was directly related to my attending a Christian University. This book was what God used to change my perspective, and teach me about the gift of brokeness.The book is written like a story, much like some of C.S. Lewis's novels- fast reads, but sometimes takes months to process all of the hidden messages and lessons.
David the shepherd boy is the model of the man who is broken and crushed by his specific calling from Heaven.
And as this book suggests, it's very often those who seek to lead in broken humility (which is the Lord's way, the Via Dolorosa) that get crushed and hurt the most by today's Sauls and Absaloms.
So for those who find themselves broken and crushed, this is a book of such balm and comfort, despite the often agonising hardships of God's calling.
But there comes a time when truth needs to be upheld, where wolves, or misguided sheep need to be rebuked, sometimes banned from fellowship because of their denials of truths Jesus preached, that God has spoken in His word.
It does mean we need to draw close to God, and with all that we are cry out to Him, knowing that these things are not trivial.
Now that I have read it I think maybe the leadership at that church needs to read it again because it seems the lessons they were focused on from the book didn't exactly "take"...but that's a different story for a different time.
Edwards tackles the topic of brokenness in his telling of three kings.
I didn't know this picking up the book and was interested at the timing of this read since our home church has been in 1 and 2 Samuel the past few months.
Edwards prompts the reader to think through their own approach to brokenness and their own response to it.
So I finally picked it up and read it in one setting.
It's a super quick read.
I agree with some of the principles, but to do what the author promotes requires discernment, otherwise I believe this book can be very dangerous.
What is Edwards promoting?
Submission.
Carte Blanche submission to leadership - to any kind of leadership.
He uses the stories of Saul, David, and Absalom (The Three Kings) to creatively illustrate his point.
David submitted to Saul's leadership, and even submitted to Absalom's rebellion.
Therefore, suggests Edwards, we are to submit to whatever earthly leadership we find ourselves under.
He really drew me into the events of King David’s life, so much so that I listened to the whole thing in an evening.Its very funny in parts and had me laughing out loud, especially when referring to how God doesn’t always tell us what we want to know, because He doesn’t have to!!
Bringing back a sense of the mystery of God that I think has been lost for years.I can see that people who are in an abusive situation in a church would not agree with this audio, and in some respects quite rightly so.
This book was given to me as a gift in 2006 by a dear friend, but I didn't read it until 2010.
It is an excellent book, especially if you have found yourself at a broken state in life.
The book takes lessons from the Bible written around the time of King David, and illustrates how these lessons can be internalized, and how you as an individual can grow through your broken-ness.
I love the note in the book that cautions the reader that this book is to be read by you, and not for you to use to point at other's attitudes or behaviors.
Excellent book!
This book, written by a pastor, is aimed at Christians who have suffered abuse at the hands of spiritual leaders. It requires some familiarity with the story of King David. Despite not being a part of the Christian scene for many years now I found the book quite readable and insightful, and not overly religious. But I do expect that if you are the sort of Christian that requires Biblical fidelity, the author's injecting his own twist on the familiar story might bother you.
Good lessons about how King David responded in a Godly way toward a harsh leader who was over him, and how he also responded as a leader to a young leader under him. There are good lessons here for leaders about modeling God's character in leadership. The book also addresses readers who are not leaders and urges the proper response to poor leadership. This book is easy to read in one sitting.
This book is for anyone who is struggling with a difficult leader -- or has been betrayed by someone you were leading --this book also deals with the issue of Gods part in struggle for believers --this book helped me when I was dealing with betrayal as well as in my past when I was struggling with being under leadership that I felt was ungodly
This book is an inward journey, for the brokenhearted.I'ts about three kings, and how we can all identify to one or the other. David, Saul and Absolom(David's son). I did not put the book down, it was super easy read. only 105 pages I read it in two days. Absolutely loved it.
This book provides consolation to those who have been wounded by someone in a position of importance in any degree while at the same time not allowing the reader to sulk as there is a call for self-examination.
A Tale of Three Kings is one of my favorite books of all time. The way Edwards writes sparked an interest in me to read all of his other works. I love the story and the dialogue between the biblical characters. The lesson of brokenness and humility that is taught truly pierces the heart.
Powerful. A must read for anyone in a leadership position. Edwards illuminates the Godly principle of surrender through the example of David.
One of the most powerful books I've ever read. Very short, very poetic. If you have every considered leadership especially in the Christian sphere this is the book for you.
If you ever have a problem with your boss, or as a boss this is an amazing read... probably the best Christian book I have ever read.
In "A Tale of Three Kings" Gene Edwards doesn't highlight his battle with Goliath, or his faithfulness as a shepherd boy but instead he highlights what perhaps could be his greatest victory, David's brokenness.
This book really makes you think about how broken David must have been when Saul, the king he loved, hunted him down like a dog to kill him or even the pain of being betrayed by your own son.
I would love to give this book a 5 star; however, there are times when Edwards is repetitious which can be both irritating and distracting...and parts where you wish he would put more emphasis but instead he quickly touches and moves on.
It is very readable, but what is remarkable is what he reveals about how David had a heart after God.While it is easy to relate the stories of these kings to our own circumstance, the point is not the circumstances, the point is how do we respond?
Sometimes, it is more important not to react, and just let God be God. This book caused me to examine my own heart.
Because we can't know, it's best to let God be God and be the one to confirm the leadership or take it away.
Wonderful book on brokenness. I’d never read this author before, but I knew a professor who recommended it very highly. I bought a copy, and I finally got around to reading it. Though short in length, it is powerful, and I highly recommend this for everyone, not just Christian readers!
Gene Edwards uses an unusual style to comment and draw out the journey of Saul, David, and Absalom. This book challenged me greatly in the area of leadership and trust in God. There is a lot to be learnt when it comes to the character of David and while this book does not cover his whole life, or his missteps, it does set up a picture for one to explore the ideas and questions surrounding motives, knowledge, trust, and suffering in the church.
An intriguing story of the life, situations, and reactions of three kings--Saul, David, and Absalom.
David trusts the God that delivered him from the power of a bear, the strength of a giant, even the snare of a deranged king Saul.
David's difficulties, beginning with the days in the field as a shepherd boy and ending in the palace with a usurping son, only broke him to see and trust God. They taught him the submission that must come, and the leadership that is true.
Very few indeed.God has this school because he does not have broken men.
I thoroughly enjoyed how he made the stories of Saul, David, and Absalom come to life.
I think that after reading this short book, which only took an hour to read, I have more understanding of the challenges David faced from the time he was anointed as king until the end of his life.
I want to be more like David!My main concern is that Edwards takes a narrative from the Old Testament and seeks to make it prescriptive for all situations and circumstances.
His main thesis is that we should passively let ourselves be hounded and hurt by the Sauls and Absalom's in our lives.
