https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/723724.79_Park_Avenue
Much more than a romance despite its established genre, this New York contemporary classic features horribly flawed yet likeable characters, a gritty urban setting and an original plot that will resonate with many readers. I wouldn't recommend it for everyone as it can be very dark at times, but it's a great story.
The inspiration for this one was probably the well-known New York Madam, Polly Adler, whose autobiography was titled A House is Not a Home.
Another character, Ross Drego, is a gangster who meets a very Bugsy Siegel-like end (Adler herself had some connections to gangster Dutch Schultz).Considering that the book deals with prostitution, it's considerably less lurid than it could have been, and certainly much less so than it would have been had Robbins written it a decade later, after he pushed the envelope with The Carpetbaggers.
This is not only trashy, but also crappy, clichéd, afwully written and mysoginistic. I know it was written in 1955, therefore I wasn't expecting much, but there are a lot of vintage soap opera style bestsellers out there which definitely stand the test of time. This doesn't. Grandma would have hated it too.
Ενδιαφέρον, αλλά οι απόψεις που εκφράζει για τις γυναίκες και τη σεξουαλικότητα τους είναι τόσο παρωχημένες που αφαιρούν πολύ από τον αντίκτυπο που θέλει να προκαλέσει.
Okay, I kind of liked it.
The main character, Marja, was a likable protagonist for two thirds of the novel.
But then it was as though Robbins got bored with writing the novel and collapsed the last 3rd into a pat ending.
The sex and sleaze in the novel are toned down to meet the standards of the time it was published which was 1955.
I was more into shows like The Night Stalker back then.
As for this novel, I would recommend it to fans of trashy, soapy bestsellers, but if you want to get Harold Robbins at his best I would say check out The Carpetbaggers or The Lonely Lady before this one.
Best book by Harold Robbins.
La lectura romántica no es de mis preferidas, sin embargo este libro me cautivó porque trata sobre una historia de amor nada típica, ambientada en esta época actual en donde la prostitución es por así decirlo ya una condición de las grandes urbes y en donde se demuestra el lado sentimental de las mujeres que se dedican a esos menesteres.Lo mejor:Que trata sobre una historia de amor atípicaEl amor condicional que le profana el protagonista a Marian a pesar del tiempo y las circunstancias en que se vuelven a encontrar.Lo peor:No le encontré defectos mientras leía
I can't help but like Harold Robbins... sometimes he's ridiculously raunchy, but mostly, he writes about sex in a way that doesn't offend me. He doesn't talk about swords and sheaths, which really, I appreciate. Also? His characters don't get happily ever afters, again, I appreciate that.Yeah. I like him.This story though, there wasn't an ounce of sex, raunchy or otherwise... one of the main characters was a prostitute, and considering, it was all very chaste.
I can't remember where I heard of this book-possibly a Goodreads recommendation-but perhaps I should have seen the warning signs when I saw the racy cover of the novel when it arrived.I am into NYC fiction, so when I read the blurb on Amazon and saw excellent reviews mentioning the city, I thought why not?
I hadn't heard of Robbins, though apparently he was a bestselling author in the 1970s.
I stuck with it because it was a short read, and I wanted to justify writing this review.
Nunca obtuvo las cosas que quiso, aunque tampoco quiso demasiado.
Mike tampoco obtuvo nunca lo que se merecía pero al menos, al final logró conseguir un poco de dignidad y de orgullo.A pesar de todo lo que vivieron y de como acabaron ambos personajes; este libro ha dejado una huella en mi, porque no todas las vidas son perfectas y aunque cada quien elige el camino que quiere (o que cree que es el mejor) a pesar de todo, tenemos el final que nos corresponde.
Free Kindle vintage Trish-trash for those interested in what great-granny did in her naughty salad days. Been there - didn't do that, and in this day and age Robbins' brand of salacious titillation is way lacking in perkiness. Chucked it.
I snuck this book out of one of my parent's book collections when I was about 15 or so....I've loved it since.
Iš tiesų morališkai sunki knyga...
tikiu, kad gyvenime tokie dalykai vyksta ir yra merginų, kurios priverstos išgyventi visą tai, kas pasakojama šioje knygoje.
Sakytum, visada yra pasirinkimas, bet gal iš tiesų, kai pats nesusiduri, nesupranti, galbūt visai jokio pasirinkimo nėra?
Tiesa prisipažinsiu, ne itin mano tipažo knygą, šiek tiek pasirodė per daug atvira ir vietomis gašli, bet manau autorius norėjo maksimaliai priversti skaitytoją pasijusti veikėjų kailyje ir išgyventi tai, ką jie išgyveno, ką Marija (pagrindinė veikėja) išgyveno.
Tačiau tikrai nesigailiu, kad pasirinkau perskaityti šią knygą - mėgstu įvairiapusiškumą, nes tiesiog pabosta iš eilės skaitytį tą patį žanrą ir panašias tematikas.
My longtime curiosity about old school mega-seller Robbins and the .25 price of vintage paperback in used shop put this one in my hands.
Robbins simple prose is never impressive and the characters and action are packed with cliches.
Despite the overwhelming list of reasons to not like this book, it felt like it took all of 5 minutes to power through and I enjoyed it the way I might a made-for-tv movie I'd never admit to watching.
Not recommended but a plus for Robbins; his lack of wordcraft (and other writing essentials) is made up for by his excellent sense of pace and soap opera scene sizing.
I really enjoyed this book. It takes you back to a lost era. There were a few things that I had trouble with, sometimes it would switch POV and I'd be confused. That is the only reason it doesn't have a five star. We read this book for Book Club. Excellent choice if I do say so myself, since I was the one to pick the book this time.
One of my first Harold Robbin's books. I had just finished about 40+ Perry Mason's series during summer and another 30+ James Hadley Chase collection. Moving to HR was a little fun (for an Indian teenager). These were thick books, several hundred pages, but gave me good company during long bus rides to engineering college (about 3+ hours each day).
Awful, contrived story of a Hell’s Kitchen Heidi Fleiss who runs a “modeling agency”. Yeah, right, tell it to the judge. The most amusing part of the book is when Mr. Robbins dedicates this lurid Call Girl classic to his wife. Is he trying to tell us something?
Abandoned this one I'm afraid - style (or lack of it) started to annoy. Shame -- had better memory of Harold Robbins. Guess our tastes change...
The story of a beautiful girl, who becomes a "Madame", owner of a prestigious modeling agency which is a cover for a prostitution center.
a smart girl who later gives her "happy ending" to the man he love... interesting!
This is my second reading of this book after a long time. I think it's just as good as the first time - it's a great read.
Why is this not a classic!? I just had to buy a copy for my NY shelf and it was one of the greatest romances I have read. Love and thrills in the Big Apple. What more could any reader ask for? It was so perfect.
First published in 1955, this is an early Robbins, and not quite as lurid as some of his more sensational works.
But the elements of sex, power, money and general unpleasantness are all in place.While there are vague feminist underpinnings - Marja refuses to be a victim and is proudly independent (except when she isn't) - the tone is hard-boiled and salacious ("her breasts were full and thrusting"), revelling in the sordidness of the underworld Robbins is exposing.With bite-sized chapters, and clearly drawn characters, "79 Park Avenue" is certainly an entertaining read, if a shallow and unedifying one.
Old Harold Robbins book set in New York, Miami, and Las Vegas during the forties.
Still, humans were the same then as they are now, and Robbins made the characters, the main one anyway, seem real as if living today.A tale of a woman born of meager means who used her looks and maturity to best advantage to survive during trying times and in tough circumstances.
Harold Robbins was one of the first popular writers of the genre which gave rise to such works as "Peyton Place", and is still popular today in refined form.This book was a pleasure to read.
Nunca obtuvo las cosas que quiso, aunque tampoco quiso demasiado.
Se rindió y vivió solo de lo que se le presentó en bandeja, que jamás fue lo mejor pero tampoco lo rechazó para buscar algo mas, aunque, en una ocasión, las circunstancias la obligaron pero (si te lo piensas bien) como consecuencia de lo que ya venía haciendo.No le importó seguir en trato con la persona que asesinó a Ross, con quien había aceptado casarse.
Tuvo un final triste y no era lo que se merecía.
Mike tampoco obtuvo nunca lo que se merecía pero al menos, al final logró conseguir un poco de dignidad y de orgullo.
I really enjoyed this book.
It's a story about how a girl coming from nothing but wanting everything ends up getting involved with the wrong people/mob.
Years later, that man is the one to prosecute her on her criminal involvement in the mob.
I think the book ended the exact way it should have - realistic and true to the characters.
Only gave it 4 stars because it was a little slow in the beginning and had trouble getting past the first couple chapters.
I'm a fan of Harold Robbins, though his books are pretty retro.
Some are better than others.
79 Park Avenue was not one of his best.
I really didn't like the Mike Keyes character.
I found the switching back and forth from first person to third person sort of jarring, as well as the jumping around in time.
However, the character Marja/Maryann was sympathetic, but her refusal to tell why she cut her step father's face, I didn't find that justified.
Why wouldn't she tell someone?
And especially Mike, who she loved.
I'm still a fan of Robbins, but this wasn't one of his best.
Usually when I read a book again, my impression of it changes with time and age.
I think I have read this atleast 3 times, first when in 1997, then at 2002 and as recent as 2013.
And during all sittings I always felt the same about the book.
The prose was simple yet so moving.Its shocking that a character that is so sunken in vice, can inspire such admiration from readers.
A woman who falls and get reborn as a new woman with a new name, like a phoenix.
As bright and hard as a diamond.
This is my most fave Harold Robins book I've ever read.
I remember it looming in our dusty bookshelf.
I was so bored that I read it.
I remember the first time when I read it I didnt sleep the whole night!
I saw how Marja struggled to fight back the looming destiny that was being forced to her.
Mike was also a character to look forward to.
He loved Marja despite the trials they've been to.
There's a lot of heart ache and pains that each character had to go through and its a heart wrenching story.I totally loved it!.
.WOW.
This is one of the best books I have ever read.
It wasn't the storyline as much as the way it was written.
I have never read Harold Robbins before.
I will now devour everything he has ever written.
I could not put this book down.
The characters the storyline the way Robbins writes, its addictive!
Although the story is about prostitution it is not seedy and detailed.
It focuses more on the characters especially Marja.
It shows how people feel forced down different roads in life and no matter which path we take we all have feelings and emotions and are all in need of love, respect, care and security.
