https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/578871.Sue_Barton_Visiting_Nurse
"I love these old streets," she said.The words were simple, direct, and undramatic, but they were the summary of twenty-five years of toil and teaching in crowded tenements - twenty-five years of trudging through winter snows and the stifling heat of summers that vanished, one by one, into a rich past.Sue felt a little staggered.
"What a - full - life you've had," she said."Yes," Mrs. Kirmayer returned quietly.There's something tremendously engaging and open about the writing, and about the way the book is a love letter to early 1900s New York.
The girls are working as visiting nurses, going out into New York to make home visits to those in need of medical help and guidance.
The book gets even more interesting when Sue gets her own placement to work in Harlem.
I liked that we were seeing a new side of Harlem instead of just the scare stories about it being a bad place for white people.
In this book, Harlem welcomes Sue with open arms and she loves working there and making a difference.
It was nice to see a totally different nursing environment, and Sue blossoms as she helps people.
In this book, we learn that nurses carried their own bags with everything they need, but when they enter a home, they must ask for newspaper to provide a "sterile" surface for their instruments.There are lots of descriptions of local character, by which I mean, well-meaning stereotypes.
Sue Barton Rural Nurse
Still, I think that these books work best as character studies and snapshots of the time period.As I'm writing about this, I am struck with the sudden realization that these books are advertisements for the career and also descriptions of what to expect in different nursing jobs.
Blurb: In this installment of the series, Sue Barton has graduated from her nursing program and has been accepted as one of the famous Henry Street nurses in NYC.
I know that it drove me to find out more about Lillian Wald and the real Henry Street program.
Another aspect of this book that I enjoyed is that Boylston shows Sue Barton as something of an independent woman, or as independent as a woman could be in the 1930s.
It is a good "palate cleanser" for an adult who just finished reading a more intense book, though.

I honestly can't remember if I finished this one -- I thought I hadn't read it at all, but the details in the reviews look familiar, so maybe I did?Yes, yes, I did read this. And it was my favourite of the series; yes, the stereotypes of immigrants are cringe-inducing, but Boylston really is trying to portray them sympathetically, so I am a little forgiving.
Yes this book is old-fashioned but that doesn't mean that it couldn't be good!!! I loved this book. I liked all of the descriptions of the different charactors and I loved the little bit of excitement put into parts of the book. Some parts of the book were hilarious and some were sad but overall it was a fantastic book and I give it a 5+.
Now, not so much; it seems a little silly.Midway through the book, the ghost issue is resolved, and at this point the focus of the story switches to Sue's fiancee, Bill Barry, pressuring Sue to leave her work to join him in rural New Hampshire so that they can get married right away -- even though he previously agreed to give her two years on her own, and Sue feels strongly that she needs to stay with the Henry Street Nurses for at least that length of time to justify the investment they made in her training.
I read some of the comments that complain about the technical aspects of the book and the explanations of nursing procedure (as it was in the '30s, at least).
Some of the stereotypes she used were pretty blatant, but you have to kind of take them for what they were meant to be and move on.I do have a couple of caveats with her writing in general, which are really jumping out at me this time.
She mostly stays in Sue's POV, but every once in awhile a narrator will jump in to add a comment, and then jump out.

This used to be my favourite of the series, but I've had to downgrade the rating somewhat.
I still absolutely I love reading about Sue's work in the streets of New York and how she has to be imaginative and think up solutions to problems she'd never have met at the hospital, but the older I get, the more the disagreement between her and Bill annoys me.
I am completely on Sue's side and found Bill totally unreasonable, which made the end somewhat less than satisfying...
A sign of the times, I guess, but annoyed me regardless.
Third in the series. Kit and Sue head to New York to become nurses for the Henry Street Nurses Association. They rent a "haunted" house and have many adventures, some of which are perilous and some of which are amusing. Towards the end, Sue and Bill have a big argument and break up. Will they get back together? Of course they will!
As the other Sue Barton books this gives a delightful picture of life as a visiting nurse in New York in the time around WW2. And though a lot of it must be outdated it is still captivating and interesting.
Enforced my young dream of becoming a nurse
A series of books I loved as a kid that was challenged to read again. Enjoyed them just as much this time around.
Sue and Kit have finished school and moved to New York to become Henry Street nurses, making the rounds of house visits to help people who can't afford hospitals and many other services/necessities/etc.
It's so idealistic, I found myself wanting to become a Henry Street nurse, just to be able to do the good the girls did!!I loved the glimpses of the neighborhoods and families, from the East Side to Harlem, and seeing what these services (finding friends for Mrs Crasniki, OMG) meant to these people, how they had hope for better futures.
The cover appears to show Sue working in 1970s Birmingham rather than 1930s New York but set that aside, this is a super story.
It's not the same without Connie, of course, but Kit and Sue soon adopt Marianne, and there are plenty of entertaining tales of life nursing in the streets of the New York slums.The book is casually racist, reflecting its era ('You'll just love working with coloured people, they're so willing to learn') so it's also worth reading just to see how we've all moved on since then.
I think my favorite part of this book was the witty dialogue between Sue and Kit—it was like something out of a fast-talking '30s movie!
The mystery angle was pretty fun, too, and I liked how Sue and Kit kept their cool and figured it out.I loved learning a little more about the Henry Street nurses, and I enjoyed following Sue along to all her cases.
I think that some of the terms were just an unfortunate mark of the period.
I wish Sue would find someone different, as I just don't feel the attraction between them at all.
The problem with this book is the dry-I'm-not-going-to-cry-but-it's-just-so-good feeling you get in the back of your throat - SEVERAL TIMES. I know that's a cheesy review but It's far from a serious read. Love this whole series but I cant give the other 6 books 5 stars like this one. I first read this book at about 13 and most recently received the series for my 27th birthday and still love it!
When I was in high school I discovered the Sue Barton series. I read them all and loved them. Now, 40 years later I am thrilled to see they have been re-released. I have the set of seven and still love them. While Sue Barton made me want to be a nurse, I did not go into that field.
I read this series probably in 1962. I found it again and bought all 6 books in paper back. Reading this makes me want to go be a Visiting Nurse! It sure brought back memories of when I first read it and of Nursing School and my first job!
The third in the series, this book finds Sue working for New York City’s Henry Street Settlement in the late 1920s or early ‘30s. Despite it’s appalling ending, I loved this book. It was an intriguing look at life and nursing in the neighborhoods of the Lower East Side and Harlem.
Obviously a quick read, since I finished it in a day.Not stellar in terms of writing, but an interesting read. It piqued my interest in the Henry Street nurses--more social workers than nurses, it seems, but I guess that's public health nursing. Onto book four!
Ich habe ein Buch bei BookCrossing.com registriert!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/13272356
Piger i gråt er ligeså fantastisk som de to foregående bøger. Jeg bliver i godt humør af at læse piger i gråt, og kunne ikke ligge den fra mig, fordi jeg var så forsybet.
