https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/844051.Mutiny_on_the_Bounty
The British (and to a lesser degree the American) Navy in the age of sail has become a staple setting of modern English-language historical fiction, exemplified by the works of Patrick O'Brian and others.
S. Forrester's Hornblower series; but this novel by Nordhoff and Hall was roughly contemporary with Forrester's work, and also well deserves a reading by fans of the above writers.
The fact that it has been adapted as a movie at least twice testifies to the popular interest it has evoked; and Bligh probably "enjoys" (if that's the word!) his status as an icon for bullying tyranny to the power of this literary portrayal, and the cinematic ones based on it, to brand itself in people's minds.
C. Wyeth's illustrations had several top-less ladies and c) the books didn't seem very happy I knew almost for certain how it would end.
B) While the island ladies don't wear tops all the time (just sunshade cloaks), they aren't loose and are represented as being like women everywhere else, some are doxies and some are respectable.
I would have given it 3 1/2 but the writing, the characters and the plot were just so good that I couldn't hold the ending against it.
After all, the authors couldn't really change the truth.
Okay, so I was in between books and decided to go back and read this one, which, if I am being honest, I never read in high school when I was supposed to.
The narrator's story is told plainly, with a fine attention to detail.
I can't say I loved how it all went down, and several of the character's stories were quite poignant.
Still, I am happy I chose to read this again as an adult, and recommend it for anyone who thinks they remember it from school.
It's funny how different a book can seem from an adult point of view.
I kind of feel bad for giving only 4 stars. I have a thing with the sea, as I often mention, and I have researched a lot when it comes to the nautical history in 19th century. I was prejudiced. Still, it lived upto the expeditions. Not the perfect story of a voyage one might expect , but it was one heck of a voyage nonetheless.
This is a book that I was supposed to read in my high school days and had seen the movie so I kind of skimmed it. I am glad that I decided to fully read this and the rest of the trilogy to follow. This is a book as much about personal characteristics, promises and vendetta as it is a book about the sea itself. This based in fact fictional piece is a quick and entertaining read.
I read Mutiny on the Bounty to fulfill a Read Harder challenge of finishing a book I hated or left unfinished.
I was supposed to read it in high school and just could not get past the second page.
For much of this reading, I was in agreement with my 15-year-old self.
This is not my kind of book.
And the story, depicting the expectations of honour, decorum, high-seas justice and 18th century British class expectations, is really worth reading.
I'll give Mutiny its due: it is a classic.
Maybe not my classic, but worth reading.
good description. but, the ending is heart touching and too much emotional.
Their novel takes place in 1789 - 1794 on board the British armed merchantman "Bounty", which traveled from England to Tahiti to pick up a load of Breadfruit trees with the purpose of planting the trees in the West Indies to provide a cheap source of food for slaves in the new world.
Although this is a novel, the story of the mutiny is a true story, with lots of drama to go around.This story actually has five parts to it.
Bligh may actually be the worst captain of the lot, although Nordhoff and Hall make him a complex and interesting guy.
Fascinating account of an open water journey across the south Pacific. Bligh's crew mutiny and send him off the ship with a small crew of faithfuls. An expert seaman, he demonstrates incredible leadership when he pilots this small rowboat and a handful of men across hundreds of miles of open ocean. Their bravery and resourcefulness are surpassed, in my opinion, only by Earnest Shackelton who made a similar trek under conditions even more trying.
This is a stunning novel, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. It's the kind of novel you could reread because the scenes are so intense and so much happens. I highly recommend it.Quite different from the Marlon Brando film version as I remember it. I'll soon see how much it differs from the Clark Gable/Charles Laughton version.
The rest of the book deals with the aftermath of the mutiny for Byam, and includes two "splits" that break off into the other two books in the trilogy--one book deals with Bligh and the men in the launch, and the other with Christian and some of the mutineers going to the Pitcairn Islands.This is a classic seafaring story.
Whilst I no longer need to read under my blankets, that feeling of unabated joy was something akin to what I felt when reading Nordhoff and Hall's historical novel of the most infamous of mutinies.Set in the late 18th century, there's probably very few people who haven't heard of this famous story based around true events.
Mutiny on the Bounty is a must read for lovers of historical novels, south sea adventures and ripping good yarns.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2927397.htmlMutiny on the Bounty, is narrated by Byam, the fictional midshipman played by Franchot Tone in the film; the Bligh of the book is if anything even more monstrous than the Bligh of the film, and the confusion of the mutiny itself - a ten-minute spurt of late-night impulse which had long-lasting effects - better conveyed.
(As indeed are many of Bligh's portrayed acts of tyranny.)Given what is said about so many historical characters, it's a bit odd that Nordhoff and Hall chose to disguise the real midshipman Peter Heywood as the fictional Alexander Byam.One of the shock moments in the film is that when the Pandora comes to Tahiti to arrest the mutineers, it turns out that Bligh is in command.
When Captain William Bligh attempts to take the ship west through the navigational nightmare around Cape Horn, the cruel captain has a mutiny on his hands, led by Lieutenant Fletcher Christian.
There are two sequels to this novel, the first tells the story of Bligh and his 19 loyal men who were set adrift at sea to fend for themselves.
The second tells the story of Christian and the mutineers once they arrive, and stay, in Tahiti.
There are more than 500 additional pages in the other two books to finish the story.
This book fulfills part of my goal to read 5 book from my 2017 Rorie Gilmore reading list.
3.75 stars  I listed to the audio book version which was so well done!
The music and the sound of the waves add to the story!
I am half tempted to read the 'real' story of the Mutiny of the HMS Bounty but this satisfies my needs.I know the sea was a career and a escape from England, but being stuck, days, weeks and months on end, with all types of personalities, smelly bodies, men and food issues, I think I might consider mutiny.
I keep coming back to this beautifully haunting re-telling of the Bounty mutiny every year or so, and every time it's like a call to the sea, as if in an earlier life I had sailed the oceans of Bligh and Christian.
And then there's the characters and their relationships, their hate for sure, but also their lost loves on the other side of the world that make this story's ending one of the most bittersweet and touching ever put to paper.
This is one of the few books that can beat the main character down and down and down and still be enjoyable.
The Mutiny on the Bounty takes a factual event and tells it from the perspective of a fictional character who is a likable lad and some of his friends who suffers though they took no part in the mutiny.
You follow the fates of about a third of the crew through celebration, tragedy, life in a foreign land, and lot of sea voyaging.
The whole book is very interesting and entertaining in it's execution, though i can see how the language and attention of details might turn some away from this incredible book.
This is a pretty good sea story, based on a 1789 mutiny. If you have time for just one mutiny, read The Caine Mutiny instead.The edition I picked up at the library is full of typos, almost to the point of detracting from enjoyment. It has none of the usual copyright, publisher and Library of Congress info, so I assume it's a Kindle edition or something like it. Strange!
The first book of the HMS Bounty Trilogy, a historical account, as told in the voice of a fictitious character, Roger Byam, who as a retired naval officer tells the exploits aboard the ship under the command of Captain Bligh that led to the mutiny, and the outcome of all involved. A seaworthy tale well worth the read.
A truly excellent novel, which is hard to do when basing fiction off of historical events. Beam comes off as well-balanced and believable. I like how the novel ends, as well--again, not an easy thing for writers to decide where to end when the characters are real people. Recommended.
The definitive story of the most famous mutiny ever, still fascinating after more than 200 years. Could sea captains really get away with being this barbaric? Didn’t the sailors have any other recourse, besides mutiny? The debate still goes on.
সমুদরের গলপ বরাবর ই আমায় ভিষণভাবে টানে। ছোটবেলায় কতবার যে নাবিক হওয়ার সবপন দেখেছি তার হিসেব নেই। এ কারণেই রবিনসন করুশো, টরেজার আইলযানড, বলাক সোয়ান, দয সী হক, সী উলফ ইতযাদি আমার পরিয় উপনযাস। সেই সাথে যুকত হল আরও একটি। অনেক দেরিতে হলেও 'বাউনটিতে বিদরোহ' পড়ে বহুদিন পর নাবিক হওয়ার ছোটবেলার সেই সবপনটা নিজের অজানতে জেগে উঠেছিল। ইচছে করেই ধীরেধীরে পড়লাম, ঘোরলাগাটা দীরঘ করার জনয। ইতিহাসের সতয ঘটনাকে কেনদর করে জেমস নরমযান হল ও চারলস নরডহফের লেখা অতি বিখযাত উপনযাস 'বাউনটিতে বিদরোহ/ Mutiny on the Bounty' স

A.
One of the best books I've ever read. And the fact that this is based on real-life events makes it that much more amazing!
Loved it! Kept me interested and made me feel as if I were on an adventure.
4.5 stars"A chill night breeze came whispering down from the depths of the valley, and suddenly the place was full of ghosts, -shadows of men alive and dead, -my own among them."
Excellent. Though I read it long ago I remember really enjoying it and would like to revisit it.
I enjoyed this book because I found the events interesting and the point of view gave a good perspective of the action.
Easily in my top 10 favorite books.
The first novel (nonfiction novel?) I ever read. It's a great, gripping story.
