https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6572.Suffer_the_Children
This book was weird af, so I liked that aspect. Lol I don't think there was enough explanation in the end. I may come back and write a complete review of this one later.
“I recognize terror as the finest emotion and so I will try to terrorize the reader. But if I find that I cannot terrify, I will try to horrify, and if I find that I cannot horrify, I'll go for the gross-out. I'm not proud.” Stephen King, Danse MacabreDON'T READ THIS REVIEW IF YOU HAVEN'T READ THE BOOK -- I WILL COMPLETELY WRECK IT FOR YOU WITH SPOILERS. SORRY, I CAN'T HELP MYSELF.I read a couple of John Saul books when I was around 12. I don't remember much about them other than the undertone o
The old policeman stops in at the Conger house to visit Elizabeth and we are treated to a HEE-YOOOGE info dump by both of them, letting us know that over the past 15 years Jack and Rose have died (together in a boating accident, and am I the only one who finds this just a little convenient?), Sarah hasn't been home since the day she brought the arm home, the cute neighbour boy's parents moved away and the other missing kids' parents are virtual pariahs.
Here, let me amaze you with a billion years old mystery about a house on a hill.Look, a little girl was killed. Look, there is a tea party that is actually a horror show.Look, there’s another sweet little girl that is totally innocent. She definitely isn’t the bad guy because she looks sweet. No, definitely not the bad guy!I love John Saul, but you can definitely see how this is his first novel. It hits every cliché in the book. Every single cliché. It’s like he was afraid he would miss one :))Still, a fast read.
Very dark and sad! Read quite awhile ago.
Cat lovers should not read this.
I read this book for my Lifetime Challenge (year 1977).When I was in high school in the late 70's, I read horror novels incessantly.
So I wanted to add some horror books into my 1970's reading challenge.
What happened to Sarah, and how does it relate to the current disappearances of three other children?I read this book straight through in 2 days.
(In case it's not clear, that's a good thing.)I really enjoyed this trip back to 70's paranormal horror novels and want to read some more.
Description: One hundred years ago in Port Arbello a pretty little girl began to scream.
And struggle.
And die.
No one heard.
No one saw.
Now something peculiar is happening in Port Arbello.
And one strange, terrified child has ended her silence with a scream that began a hundred years ago.
This is the one that starts with a little girl chasing a bunny in New England in the late 1800s.□ □ □ □ □ □ □What is it about New England and horror stories?
Must be the same way that gothic big house stories work best in a Cornish setting.

This book was just okay. I did not believe the characters or their relationships. I may think twice before reading more John Saul. This was his first effort, so maybe the books will improve after this one.
This is the first Saul novel I've read, and I have to say that I enjoyed it.
The writing was fast-paced, the characters were tolerable, even though Elizabeth annoyed me in whatever characterization she appeared.
Normally I am able to read through most disturbing scenes in novels.
Still, it's a fast read and keeps you holding on until the end.
I felt horribly let down by the ending.
After everything that happened, the novel ended on such a blank and unsatisfying note.
So I guess the ending worked on that note.
I read this book when I was a teenager and can hardly remember a thing about it other than that it scared the crap out of me at the time. Small town, evil kid, and a horrible, dreadful scene involving a cat that I've completely blocked from my mind.
how they suffer.The small town of Port Arbello is rocked by the disappearance of some local children who have gone out to play, and had never come back home.
Just to interject on my own review; what was Saul thinking when he thought of the name of the town?
On with the rest of this review.This story is based on a long ago legend of the Conger family, who many years ago had a prominent member that raped and killed his youngest daughter, and after that he decided to take his own life.
A lot of horror books tempt you with their promises of monsters so horrible they could not possibly exist in the real world.
What are truly horrifying are the monsters that do exist here in our everyday lives.
They may even exist inside of us.This is the tale of a haunting.
Like many victims of childhood abuse I related strongly to the overwhelming desire to recreate our abuse in order to gain mastery of our emotions during that which made us most powerless.
This book exposed those desires to their most raw point.
The monster isn’t the abuser but the chaos the abuse creates.
La relectura no fue tan traumática... maduré!O no dejé pasar mucho tiempo, aunque lo debo haber leído por primera vez hace como 6/7 años. Aún así sigue siendo una lectura bastante fuerte, con momentos bien creepys y ese final me va a poner los pelos de punta siempre.
Even when he admits to his wife that he remembered beating his daughter and having sudden desires to rape her, she doesn't do the most rational thing and take her kids and get the hell out of there sending the bastard to prison, no!

Este es el segundo libro que leo de John Saul y ha dejado la vara muy alta para los siguientes que e
I don't recall being blown away by any of John Saul's books, but this one stuck more than the others. Perhaps it's because it was my first horror novel. I don't know. There are scenes in this book that still haunt me (don't worry, no spoilers).
Another horror writer from my early days. This is a really good book.🐯👍
It isn't exactly a horror book.
It reminded me of The Silence of the lamb in the cold, dark atmosphere (even if the story is completely different).
There are strong, weird/violent scenes but they are so well described that I didn't feel sick about it.
Unlike other writers, J.
Saul was not enjoying writing these scenes.
It's just part of the story.
The book is a solid thriller as well and I couldn't put it down.
I also have to say that Suffer...
is beautifully written in term of vocabulary.
I give 4 stars because I felt like the end missed some more details though it didn't leave me frustrated.
Saul shows the reader every aspect of the story so the ending just leaves the reader with a question of "what" instead of "huh that was interesting."What's more, Saul's writing is the blandest and most dull thing ever.
Oh, and he does numerous things that bug me, like opening his book with irrelevant descriptions of the weather and saying "so and so did this, as if (makes a comparison that is entirely the subtext instead of an actual metaphor)."The only reason this didn't get one star is that it doesn't feel as much a chore to read as something like Moby Dick.
2 1/2 STARSBack in the late 80's and early 90's I discovered John Saul's books.
Therefore, I have decided to start at the beginning of his career and forever record them in my goodreads library!
Sadly, Suffer the Children is the book I had to start with.
This must not have been one of the ones I read before, because I think I would have remembered some of the visuals that Saul includes in this story.
Suffer the Children reminds me a bit of the early Stephen King books.
You get a clear vision of what is happening to the characters.
Until I got to the end (last 5 or 10 pages).
Suddenly the ending didn't feel like the rest of the book.
The detailed how's and why's of the characters kind of disappeared.
And the end was a bit abrupt, I thought my epub file was missing the last pages or something, but it wasn't.
It is a shame because the rest of the book was so good.
My very first John Saul novel, one of several that I picked up at the Barrie Flea Market last year. It was good as well as creepy.The characters seemed like normal, everyday people - a family with problems, and strange happenings.Several times, I was shocked, dismayed, angry, and freaked right out. What happens in the novel doesn't seem so far-fetched, and it's scary how real it seems. The end made me feel helpless and I shuddered at something else.Want to read an older psycho thriller, this one will make you sleep with the light on.
I now Saul isn't everyone's 'cup o' tea' and I appreciate this. However this book is very dear to my heart. I read it when I was twelve back in 1977 and it kindled my desire to want to write.Having recently re-read it i still enjoyed it. It did not impact me as much as the first few times around- but that was 30 plus years ago....And I suspect I have matured (at least a little). I would still urge any fans of horror to at least give this book a shot if you have not already done so.
A fairly quick read. Left a few unanswered questions, but you can speculate as to the answers. Nothing truly original about this one. A somewhat predictable ghost story.
I read Suffer the Children in 1977 when I was 13. It came to my attention again recently so I’m addIng it. Since I don’t recall specific details about the book, I can’t speak about the quality of the writing or the plot. I’m still giving it 4 stars because it put some horrific pictures in my mind that still reside there, especially at night. That’s a good enough endorsement for a horror book, I think.
Las ganas de llorar que tengo, santo cielo. Qué libro desesperante, un sentimiento contante de inginación e impotencia. Sin dudas, una joya, totalmente indicado para volarte la cabeza de preguntas, dudas, reclamos y misterios sin resolver. .La reseña sale en Halloween ;)
Crudo! Siniestro! Muy buen libro! Con un final que te deja con la boca abierta! Con páginas llenas de sangre , descuartizamientos ! Léanlo!
I just finished and still can't tell you exactly what I've read.The writting is down right amazing.
No reason is given as to why things happen, and no explanation when they doAnd the ending buffles the most, as even more unkowns are thrown inIf you like dark thrillers then sure, pick up the book cause you'll love it, but if that's not your cup of tea, find something else to read cause you'll want to put this one down.
Or join a book club amd read it xause then you'll have people pushing you to finish it even when you want to stop.
