https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1734663.Mother_Goose
1. no awards2. preK-1st3. This book uses Disney characters to act out old nursery rhymes. This version is a little older, but has characters still known today along side fun rhymes.4. Many kids have a favorite character and if they are in this book then they may be inclined to read it more. The rhymes are fun and once they learn them then they can read it themselves.5. a. students can sing the songs while transitioning b. they can take words from the nursery rhymes and find other words that rhyme with it
Not the exact edition I read - but the same ISBN. My version has a pink background and was published in 1952.
I recently bought this, but I had it as a child as well.
I'm not sure which edition, and I wish I could remember.
I suspect it was the one with Mother Goose flying on the blue cover whereas the one I bought has a pink cover.
Regardless, it was nice to read again.
I appreciate the short length -- Mother Goose books can go a little overboard, I think.
They're just as I remember them!
The double-page art for Woman Who Lived in a Shoe is really lovely.
Overall a sweet little collection, even though Disney isn't always my thing.
"Walt Disney's Mother Goose" is a poetry book full of nursery rhymes. Geared toward the nursery age they are loved by children and adults alike.This "Little Golden Book" version of Mother Goose has some favorites like Jack Sprat and Hey Diddle Diddle and some rare rhymes such as Jumping Joan and Cross Patch as well.This is a five star winner. Simple rhymes help children learn to read and recognize words. The illustrations add characters from Disney movies such as Dumbo and Mickey Mouse. A real classic!
Vintage artwork and the classic Disney characters add a world of charm to these perennial Mother Goose nursery rhyme favorites–from “Peter Pumpkin Eater,” “Hey, Diddle, Diddle,” and “Little Miss Muffet” to “Jack Sprat,” “Simple Simon,” “Old King Cole,” and more.Such a fun and cute read. I loved all the stories growing up and it is still fun to read them to kids now.
This book is a fun and silly collection of Mother Goose stories illustrated in Disney's style and using many of Disney's famous characters. I'm not always in love with Disney work, but, oddly enough, little six-year-old boys are very fond of fun and silly books that they can read by themselves. I do, however, very much like the illustration for Old King Cole.
Do rhymes have any purpose? I get that they're easy for children to memorize, but they don't make sense like short stories do.The illustrations are cute, and choosing Goofy as Simple Simon was a great move.
This book gets 4 stars purely for nostalgia. I requested this book be read to me so many times as a child that I still cannot hear these nursery rhymes without picturing these illustrations in my mind.
This is the first Disney digital book that I have read. Different trivia appeared throughout the story and you will find that you are congratulated when you finish. It is a different experience than reading the tales. Both have their place.
Just a Little Golden Book -- and one of the earliest Mother Goose books encountered and therefore I must include it in my Mother Goose favorites.
A great childhood book.
Such a great addition to one's Little Golden Book and Disney collections! Includes such favorites as Jack Be Nimble, Little Jack Horner, and Ding, Dong Bell.
I remember the cover but just not the story
The Disney touch softens these Mother goose Nursery Rhymes with new blood. This a nicely done and illustrated small book for young children.
This was one of my favorite Little Golden Books as a child. Here was where I was first introduced to nursery rhymes.
Cute story from my childhood. Reminds me of my grandma.
One of my favorite books of all time! I like how the pictures are done with Disney characters form the 1930s and 1940s.
This is one of the books I almost literally wore out as a little girl. It is amazing the thing lasted through my childhood. I loved the Disney characters illustrations with the nursery rhymes.
This book has robbers stealing tarts.
I loved my mother reading this to me as a child. Now, I love to read it to my daughter. This is an all time favorite for me!!
C says he would give it a 10 if he could.
