https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1326258.Chosen
The author is extremely repetitive, starting with her introduction to the books.
She thinks random people would start reading at the 3rd book without reading the previous ones, and in the process of her 'introductions' she pisses her actual readers off.
A good thing about this series (possibly the only reason I kept on reading) is the action.
It's a shame the good in this book is overridden by the bad writing and characterization as well as the author's laziness in thinking up new plots and character development.
Zoey's best friend Stevie Ray is undead or something and she tried to kill Zoey's boyfriend/Imprint, Heath.
The book starts off by Zoey trying to see how many times she can say suck while complaining about her awful birthday.
So Chosen follows Zoey's struggle to help her best friend Stevie Ray regain her humanity.
Without Stevie Ray, Zoey has to have bad birthday presents!
The little issue of Erik crops up, not to mention that she still hasn't dumped Heath, but Loren goes all possessive and says Zoey belongs to him.
Stevie Ray is back to normal(which means she can plan decent birthday parties for Zoey, yay!) and Aphrodite is human.
The fact that Zooey, the main character and supposed heroine of this series, sleeps with a teacher is disgusting beyond words.
Besides the fact that the main character is an obnoxious slut and the book is blatantly racist, the story just suffers from poor writing.
The authors waste a lot of time giving us long summaries about what happened in the previous books, and sometimes review things that just happened a few chapters ago!
Most of the characters are not fully drawn, and all Zooey's friends are stereotypes.
Not that the fabulous Damien Maslin isn't actually gay.
He's not a fluttery-acting gay kid, but get the boy talking about shopping and he definitely shows some girlish tendencies...What in the literal fuck does that even mean?
WHAT IN THE LITERAL FUCK IS THAT PARAGRAPH?If you're not offended enough by that alone, there's also casual use of the word "retarded" and a horrifying scene where Zoey treats a homeless person like they are actually the scum of the earth.Ugh. Burn this book.
But Erik won me over at the scene when he called Zoey a stupid slut and a filthy hypocrite, among a bunch of other things.
I loved her sarcastic bitchy self, but unfortuanately, she was shamed by Zoey as a slutty hoe.
I am not, in any way, joking when I say that Zoey is the most hypocritical, stupid, irritating, slutty, bitchy protagonist I have had ever had the misfortune to read about.
If I ever see Zoey on the streets, I won't think twice to wring her neck, because I have never heard of a more useless, retarded character before.
CHOSEN  was a long-drawn out account of Zoey Redbird dealing with (in her own words) her ho-ish existence. All we read about is Zoey’s hormones getting pulled every which way with: a) Human imprinted partner, Heath (who she intends breaking up with but instead has a hot ‘n’ heavy make-out session with)b) Erik, her handsome fledgling boyfriend (who she wants to come clean with about her roaming eye but instead ends up having hot ‘n’ heavy make-out sessions with)c) Loren Blake, temporary teacher
All we read about is Zoey’s hormones getting pulled every which way with: a)	Human imprinted partner, Heath (who she intends breaking up with but instead has a hot ‘n’ heavy make-out session with)b)	Erik, her handsome fledgling boyfriend (who she wants to come clean with about her roaming eye but instead ends up having hot ‘n’ heavy make-out sessions with)c)	Loren Blake, temporary teacher (who she wants to break up with but as he apparently makes her "feel like a woman", she inevitably ends up...yep...you got it...having hot 'n' heavy make-out sessions with)So in the midst of all this mind-numbing drama, Zoey is also trying to find a way to restore some semblance of normality into the life of her friend Stevie Rae, who died and changed into a snarling, undead creature.
Mini ReviewI really hate giving bad reviews but this book truly disgusted me. I am really disappointed in P.C. and Kristin Cast. I mean honestly, do they think that all teenagers act like this because if they do, they need a reality check. Love triangles are overused but I can admit, that some writers can really do it well. This love square thing Zoey had going on was ridiculous. I mean, come on? When I read about the teacher suddenly popping up in the picture, I was so grossed out. I mean, usu
I mean honestly, do they think that all teenagers act like this because if they do, they need a reality check.
This love square thing Zoey had going on was ridiculous.
I mean, usually, older guys are sexy and they really get me going but this guy just grossed me out.
What happened to loyalty?Don't Read on unless you Have Read the Book or You Will Not Be ContinuingFinally, the one moment that pissed me off like never before: Zoey slept with a teacher who was using her.
Its like no one respects themselves in books anymore.
Zoey needs to get herself some self respect because her behavior is awful.
This series just keeps getting better and better. The Casts are fearless about adding new dimensions to their beloved characters. I admire the creativity of their world--it's extremely well thought out and cohesive while blazing new paths in the vampiric realm. I really can't praise this series enough.
Authors are pretty good, but the editors can't possibly speak English.Down points of the novel are that every guy is described as being exactly the same.
And, having a young adult book in which a teenage character makes out with a teacher is just plain wrong.
The story didn't need this twist as the lead character is already dating several different guys at the same time.
Why not put forth a stronger female character who puts her time into a healthy relationship?Could've been much better without the ridiculous relationship with a teacher, some editing, and better character development.
Zoey is probably the sluttiest heroine out there. e_e God.
I am merely using the character to illustrate my deep hatred for these books and why you should get drunk or at least get a sugar high off of them.Hi,This is Zoey Redbird (yes, I know I'm amazing you can like totally stop clapping now).Smiles.I'm upset that people are using my series to get drunk.
We like did it in the rec room but it was totally ruined by Prince Eric who came in there and started cussing us out.*Count Chocola and vampires love for it (if I only I could have a Mercedes with the license plates with 666)*Friends that undergo radical transformations with makeovers that are from Hot Topic (Um, maybe not the Hot Topic part, but I so wish Stevie Rae would get rid of those Wranglers)*Evil teachers who hate me for no reasonSee, totally original.
You make her look like a fucking angel!"So Zoey basically still juggles between three males: Erik, Heath and Loren.
And he will not take it gracefully.Before the end of the book:-one of them will be dead-one will be heartbroken and -one will be his usual absentminded selfVery dark moments for Zoey.
She will feel betrayed and used.Her only purpose now is to save Stevie Rae.For that reason, Aphrodite will take Stevie Rae's place in the circle.Before the end of the book :-one of them will be a vampire and-one of them will be human again."Remember when we thought me having a sucky birthday was our biggest problem?"Very sad book.
Και όχι μόνο αυτό, αλλά είναι γραμμένοι και από ανώριμο συγγραφικά χέρι, ο Θεός να φυλάει…Κοπελιά δεν είσαι κουλ όταν μιλάς για πίπες και μας αναφέρεις ότι ο κολλητός σου είναι γκέι, 4 φορές σε μία παράγραφο, δήθεν είσαι και ηλίθια.
Και επιτέλους πόσες φορές πρέπει να ακούσω τις μπαρούφες της Σόνι και της Έριν, που κάθε ατάκα τους ξεκινάει με την προσφώνηση Δίδυμη της μία προς την άλλη; Μήπως θα γίνεται και αδελφοποιητές; Θα κάνετε πυτζάμα πάρτυ και θα κόψετε τούφες από τα μαλλιά σας και θα τις θάψετε στον κήπο με όρκους αιώνιας φιλίας; Ε; Δωδεκάχρονα;Και φυσικά κάπως έτσι δεν γίνεται να μην μιλήσω για την κεντρική ηρωίδα, την Ζόι, πόσος εγωισμός, ανωριμότητα και ναι, τσουλοσίνη (υπάρχει αυτή η λέξη;) χωράει σε έναν χαρακτήρα;;; Μα με τρεις;;; Τρεις;;;; Τέλος πάντων…Τα θετικά.

Totally amazeballs and now onward with the next book in the series!
However, she doesn't like these gifts because they all have christmas themes as therefore can only be worn around christmas.-sigh-These people have only know Zoey for two months and they are willing to spend over $400 dollars on her.
But Aphrodite is a dirty ho' for giving a blowjob to a guy she was dating.Oh yeah, Zoey's over use of the word ho' and describing everything from blowjobs to public making out as ho'ish was getting on my last damn nerve!
If you want a cleaner review: https://rowansravingreviews.wordpress...Not so clean: Alright, so Loren Blake is possessive as fuck.
Yeah, and then was like, "Now let's finish the Imprint.
Let's make love!" I was so disgusted...
Loren Blake was, in this book, an ass.And then, Erik walked in on the second time...
Erik was also possessive, controlling, and argued with Zoey during every fucking chapter, I kid you not.
So, I like Aphrodite now.
She is dark and depressing, sarcastic, which are all things I love in a book character.
How she was that weird ass ghost vampire thing.
(hide spoiler)]Not that that is a big surprise *rolls eyes*Zoey is a Mary Sue. She is.
Everyone wants to be Zoey's boyfriend or friend because she is sooooo popular and everyone can relate to her.
The only character I liked was Neferet and even then she's useless at destroying Zoey.
Take a look at the popular girl in your school, how many guys are after her?
Nothing compared to Zoey and her dazzling charm and looks *throws up* ugh.
Type into Google search bar "Zoey Redbird" and it even lists options such as...Mary Sue. The whole idea is AMAZING, seriously I think the idea is great.
That is probably the real reason I continue to read this series.
This series is full of annoying characters, half-baked plot ideas, and badly written prose.
The librarian asked me if this was "one of those Twilight books" and although I turned up my nose as I said "no," I have to admit that the Twilight series is like Shakespeare compared to this.
This review is probably not helpful, considering I haven't read the book yet and I'll probably forget to update it when I'm done.
The immature, inane dialogue is so stupid and ridiculous, it makes me feel embarrassed for the writer, who is obviously trying way to hard to sound like a cool teenager, when in fact, it makes her sound the way Drew Barrymore dressed in that movie "Never Been Kissed." She makes up words that a 12 year old might say, like "ginormic." And Zoey, the 16-17ish year old main character, refuses to swear and says things like "darn it" while she's sleeping with her older teacher.
She feels guilty for being such a ho-bag while porking her teacher, cheating on both her boyfriends.
Okay, I do agree the grammar is horrible, as well as the dialogue, and the way P.C. Cast always repeats things that her regular readers already know.
Like when she keeps repeating how "The cats choose the fledgling," like seriously shut the freak up already!
I also have some issues about what happened with the Zoey charater and Loren Blake.
I mean, I just find it sickening that Zoey is supposed to be this strong, smart, independant young woman, yet, she's not intellegent enough to not have sex with a grown man!?
Even though there's so many things wrong with it, I'm still totally in love with the series.
This third installment of the House of Night series starts to feel a little preachy in its declaration of the heroine's personal values and opinions: I have, after all, listened to the exact same sentiments for three freaking books now.
And maybe that's okay, but it definitely doesn't make me care what happens to you.And yet somehow by the end of the book, once Zoey Got Hers, I found myself still caring enough about the other characters to want to read the next book.
"You're not like anyone else," I whispered to my reflection. Then I cleared my throat and continued in an overly perky voice. "And it's okay not to be like anyone else." I rolled my eyes at myself. "Whatever." When I first started on the House of Night series back in January, I was warned by a friend that, while the first two books were indeed terrible, they had nothing on the third, Chosen. So, after reading Marked and Betrayed, I couldn't possibly believe my friend's words. How could it get w
This book focused mainly on three things; Zoey's friend 'Stevie-Rae' being not-quite-dead (which we already knew at the end of the last book), the beginnings of some sort of semi-religious conflict between vampyres and humans, and Zoey's tumultuous love-life.
Because I hated Zoey.For me to enjoy a YA romance, I have to like the characters involved.
All this exchange did was help reinforce the fact that Zoey's friend Damien is gay.
So, the whole book focuses on boyfriend drama, and it ends with Zoey having zero boyfriends.
Sanırım seriye olan ilgimi kaybettim. :( Devam etmem için bir taraflarımı yırtmam gerekbilir ve ben buna hiç gönüllü değilim.Sevenleri kusura bakmasın ama benim bu seriye devam etmem için canımdan zorum falan olmalı. Buralara kadar geldiğim için bile kendimi ödüllendirmeliyim bence.
Plot problems, sex problems, bad-fucking-storytelling problems, and they're all gone in to in more depth in the complete review at You're Killing Me. But if there's one thing we want to communicate most about Chosen, it's what follows: LOL RACISM It's not like House of Night has been a shining pillar of excellence when it comes to race - the series is an unabashed endorsement of stereotypes, has a fondness for Othering and exotifying Zoey's Sassy Black Friend, Shaunee, and has let loose with weave insults and "good hair" comments, and varying other subtly racist bullshit.
What I enjoyed the most about this particular book in the series was that for the first time, in my opinion, Zoey made mistakes and there were consequences for the mistakes that she made.
Zoey has been doing a pretty good job and making mistakes and people right away either forgiving her, or simply telling her that she has a lot to learn.
More exciting, nerve-racking, and intense things are sure to come in the next House of Night book, Untamed.
But I know that I am excited to see what's in store for everyone at The House of Night!
And just like every other character, her mistakes pile up, they're found out, and she falls hard.During this series, I have spent a lot of time thinking about the phrase  "the path to hell is paved with good intentions."  Zoey has a lot of good intentions with trying to handle everything on her own, but she could have handled everything a lot better.
My hopes for the next book are that we learn more about Stevie Rae; that we figure out what the hell happened with Aphrodite; and that Zoey's friends give her a hard time about all the shit she's pulled, but they find a way to work through it and can take down Neferet.
I hate myself a little.Instead of getting worse, I'm finding that this series is getting better.
I don't know if it's because the writing is getting better, or it's because I'm just getting used to it.
The drama was way more engaging, the characters more interesting.
I feel like more things were explained, & things are starting to take shape.Personally, my favorite part is that Zoey, the main character, messes up completely while in a love triangle...
She messes up, & she realizes that she's gullible & a bit stupid.
A dumb character who admits to it.
Hmmm...I am still unsure about this series. The vampire world of the House of Night series, the magic, mythology, and biology, is intriguing, but the characters are not overly believable and often do things that make me cringe. The love triangle (square?) that develops is a bit gross...okay, it is a *lot* gross...and I'm hoping that the focus shifts back to the vampire world for book four.
She’s actually far more developed than Zoey’s friends who are little more than mindless drones worshipping her every move.So Aphrodite finding her own personality, being involved in the plot even if it is in the path of “redemption” for not being a good follower of Zoey in the first place.
