https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/846066.The_Berenstain_Bears_Forget_Their_Manners
I read the book, "The Berenstain Bear Forget Their Manners", by Stan and Jan Berenstain to my three cousins.
In the book, the bear cubs, Brother and Sister Bear were very rude to each other and refuse to use their manners.
Even though the list didn't help the cubs however it did help Papa Bear.
Their two kids Brother and Sister Bear needed to learn how to use their manners.
My cousins, ages three, four, age send seven really liked this book and thought that having to use their manners like Brother and Sister Bear did was something they should do too.
(1985)Summary: The bear family was having trouble with their manners.
They did not use kind words and mama bear did not know what caused all of it.
They decided to be extra polite because they thought that mama bear would be fed up and call the plan off.
It can also connect with good manners and how everyone needs to have them.Questions:1.Why are manners important?2.Was there ever a time where you forgot your manners?3.What are ways to remember them?4.Can you come up with different manners we need to uphold in the classroom?
The Bears are forgetting their manners and Mama Bear needs to step in and make things right (again).
On the other hand, using housework as punishment kind of sets the cubs up for a heavy dislike of cleaning as adult bears, so this leaves me somewhat conflicted.
Overall, I thought the cubs reactions were great, and the fact that Papa Bear had to learn his manners all over again is a nice reminder that the adults don't always get things right - especially in this regard.
Manners are an ongoing process, that you need to be aware of throughout your life.
Berenstain Bear books are an excellent choice for parents who prefer didactic stories unalloyed with entertainment.
They teach stern lessons without humor, or joy.
That's my general complaint.My specific complaint for Manners is Mama Bear's plan to punish poor manners by requiring the offended to do necessary household chores.
So who does the chores if no one behaves rudely?
Do they fall to Mama by default?
And what do children learn if they are excused from household chores as a reward for ordinary politeness?
Why should learning manners relieve them of learning responsibility?A dull book with a problematic message.
★★★★The Berenstain Bears Forget Their Manners by Stan and Jan BerestainThere's trouble in the tree house. The manners have gone out the window. This started off small, like not saying please, excuse me, or thank you. Then it went to just, plain rude. Mama's solution, make a chart. A mama after my own heart. List the rudeness with the penalty, major house work. This goes for Papa, too, who's the first to try out the new list. This book teaches not only manners, but responsibility.
recommended I recommend this book and others like it because it teaches morals and social values. My 2 year old grandson enjoys the Berenstain Bears series.
Not only could this book not keep my daughter's attention, it also teaches that chores are a punishment.
I chose This book because it shows students that manners are important and would be a helpful classroom tool to make sure that students understand that its important to take into account how others feel. I enjoy this book because of the whimsical nature that it brings to setting out expectations. This book adds to the series in such a way that it could be a useful tool in an at home library of children’s books.
This Berenstain Bears book has a great message for kids and adults alike, it is a great reminder about the importance of having manners and that we should always be on our best behavior when interacting with other people. It would be great for a lesson on classroom manners and how to act respectfully.
Great book for kids and even some adults. Lol.
I loved reading the Berenstain Bears books to my kids...
This is the most brilliant book I have ever read. Very wise.
Lots of important lessons
One of my favorite childhood reads! The magic is still there as an adult. ;]
Best book
The characters were going through it but mama bear Came and got everyone together.
In this story, Mother Bear becomes worried because Brother Bear, Sister Bear, and even Papa Bear seem to be frequently be forgetting their manners.
Brother Bear and Sister Bear strive to display proper manners, and it eventually becomes natural to them.
On the other hand, Papa Bear struggles to correct his poor manners.
However, with help from each other, all of the members of the Bear family eventually learn to display proper manners, even when faced with difficult situations.This would be a great book to implement in the classroom.
"The Berenstain Bears Forget Their Manners" would be a good book to read to a young class that is having a bad day and maybe forgetting how to be polite. In the book, Mama Bear makes a "politeness" chart to show her children what is rude vs. good manners, and the consequences for rude manners. Making a similar chart for your own students could be an effective way to get them to mind their manners, since a reward would be given if politeness was shown, and a punishment would be given for bad manners.
This book teaches children to say "Please", Thank you", how to be polite and how to help others; in other words, how to watch their manners. Mama bear was quite distressed; her family's manners were becoming atrocious! Nothing seemed to be working, so she created a chart which showed a penalty beside every rude thing done. The twins caught on fast; it was Papa who was slower to learn!
Sister Bear, Brother Bear, and Papa Bear begin forgetting their manners when Mama Bears decides that it is time for a change.
Mama Bear implements a politeness plan to try to fix the bears’ manners.
I think children could relate to this book because they most likely have had the same experiences at Sister and Brother Bear.
I look forward to seeing the illustrations after reading the text because they portray the text’s meaning in a creative way.
The detailed illustration shows Brother Bear with a mean look on his face shoving Sister Bear.
The illustrations in this book make me look forward to turning the page.
The Berenstain Bears Forget Their Manners is another didactic story, telling how Sister and Brother and Papa Bear behave rudely, and poor, saintly Mama Bear must bring them back from the brink of barbarism.The story, such as it is, is simple and direct.
Mama's family is behaving rudely, and she will not stand for it.
She tries coaxing, complaining, and shouting, and she tries enlisting Papa Bear to shout at the children, and none of these things cause them to be more polite.
Eventually, she creates "The Bear Family Politeness Plan," a list of 'rudenesses' and 'penalties' that she hopes will effect the changes she wishes to see.
When all of the bears seem to forget their manners Mother bear takes matters into her own hands and forms a politeness plan that ends up working great on everyone but Papa bear.
It is very important to show students that manners matter and to teach them what you expect of them in your class.
Have the kids help you think of fair punishments for forgetting to use their manners.
This would be a great opportunity to help students feel like they have a say in how the classroom is ran while you make sure they know the rules and expectations up front.
Everyone in the Bear family's being rude, calling each other "noodlepusses" and the like, so Mama Bear -- ever the voice of reason -- creates The Bear Family Politeness Plan, which seems like a good idea.
(The drawings of him completing chores indicate that he forgot to say "excuse me" and "please" or "thank you," made rude noises, and pushed and shoved.
Who was pushing or shoving??) Brother and Sister, meanwhile, think being overly, preposterously polite will make Mama Bear see how ridiculous she's being, but eventually they wind up just being nice to each other.
To fix this problem she makes a politeness plan with consequences for every rude thing they do.
Once they all realize that their manners make it easier to get along with others and make them polite and considerate, they are more willing to quit their rude habits.
When things go not according to our own plan it is easy to get rude or upset with someone.
Forgetting ones manners while running through daily routines can initiate conflict with others as well.
This story is a good reminder for children that being polite and considerate creates a much better environment for everyone including themselves.
I read the Berenstain bears to my kids at the children’s center all the time they love every single one.
This book is a great book to read to kids because manners are very important and sometimes we can forget to use them even as adults so sometime we need a quick reminder.
This book is a fun way to remind kids to always use their manners.
Mama bear has noticed that her family have become kind of rude taking, push and fighting.
The family then learns very quickly that they must use their manners and be kind to one another.
Manners are directly reflective of what kind of person you are.
The dinnertable is an obvious place to discuss manners as there are many common poor examples during meals.
Eating with your mouth open, putting your feet on the table, leaving the table without asking, and the list could go on.In a classroom it is essential to have mutual respect between students and the instructor.
Manners are important and if you desire your students to treat each other properly you must discuss the importance of good manners at the start of the school year and set a precedent on acceptable behavior.
One reason I love the Berenstain Bears is because of the lessons that come from each book.
These books do not have any lessons to help kids read better, but they are fun to read and have a message on many important topics.
I think this book is no exception.
I would recommend this book to younger aged students; from toddlers to about age 10.
These are also great books for students read once they have become readers as they are a series.
If they like one, they will probably read them all.
I think there's a very good reason that this book series has spanned decades and maintained popularity.
It gives children the chance to think on their own and make their own choices for behaviors that carry over into their adult lives.
Many of these issues will be ones that will persist through their lives, just on different levels of course.I love the nostalgia reading this as an adult.
I mostly love when a child is learning them and is able to point something out to the adults.
This is a great book to pick up.
I picked The Berenstain Bears Forget Their Manners from the stack of 20 or so Berenstain Bear books that my mother still has because Christopher was not behaving well while we were visiting my family. I thought he could use some reminders about manners.I think it was over his head, but I enjoyed reading this book again. It tells of the cubs and Papa Bear being very rude to each other. Mama implements a chart of consequences (chores) for poor manners. I should read more of these books and take some tips from Mama Bear!http://www.momsradius.com/2016/09/juv...
I learned to read on the Berenstain Bears collection as a little girl, and I always smile whenever I think of the books. This installment and Trouble with Pets were my two favorites out of the entire series. In the case of Forget Their Manners, I always found the combination of Papa, Brother, and Sister's ill-behavior and the illustrations to be the best part. I have never forgotten the look on Sister's face when Brother shoved her out of the way, making her lose both the teddy bear and the sucker she'd had in her mouth. Absolutely hysterical.
