https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48183.The_Honk_and_Holler_Opening_Soon
All that being said I have to say that while this was another good book from her I felt like it had a bit of either a rushed quality or an edge that indicated this was her real first novel a book written before Where the Heart Is the book that brought her major success and a film.
Well while all the characters are great and generally were conveyed well some of the plot lines never really played out as completely as they should have and as a result the book doesn't quite pack the punch you're hoping for in the end.
Meanwhile, up the road a piece, the neon sign outside the Honk and Holler sputtered and went out.I was initially and immediately enthralled with the Honk's ensemble cast of characters.
While the Honk and Holler Opening Soon is not nearly so epic in scope and is from a much different era, the fictional citizens of Sequoyah brought to my mind the characters from Larry McMurtry's Lonesome Dove.Possibly because I felt that relationship between the characters of the two books, I expected Honk to follow a different path and thus my disappointment when it didn't.
I wanted to begin reading Oklahoma Reads like we did in the last book group that I attended.
One of our book group members said that it didn’t seem to her that the people in this book were real.
While we live in a small town in Oklahoma, where this book takes place, not Sequoyah as in the book, just Oklahoma, it really depends on the circle of people with whom you associate.
It was in later years, when I moved to Creston, that I began to really know and love the people that were like the characters in this book.
LOVED this book! I am a huge fan of Billie Letts now. I read Where the Heart Is many years ago and loved it, so I picked this one up in the US for something to read, didn't get to it until I got home but loved it the minute I started reading it. She creates the most wonderful characters, and like my other favourite author Tim Winton, her skill is in creating characters that are flawed but beautiful.
This is a great read because it's like the comfort food served at the Honk. By the end of the book I cared a great deal about these quirky characters and their marginal lives. I finished the book on a road trip where it was reported Billy Letts had died. Her writer's voice was one on most naturally genuine and full of heart on the landscape of American fiction. I salute Billy Letts and wish she would have lived to produce a larger body of work. Her voice will be sorely missed.
Contrary to the book blurb, I don’t think Vena Takes Horse is the one healing, or the force bringing people together - although she's an empathic soul, but rather that courageous little Vietnamese immigrant, barely mastering the English language, but touching everyone's heart.
And it’s a topic I haven’t read much about, but here in this lovely little story, its repercussions are part of the scars people wear, and the author has a very fine way of briefly touching the subject and making it a part of the story.The only thing I can add at this point is: READ THIS BOOK and you won’t regret it.
This is at least the second time I've read this book, and it hasn't lost anything with age. It is still a good read with interesting characters. It is a bit funny, and yet contains real life problems, and real people working out their problems.
I feel like every time I write a review, my main focus is on characterization, but for me, the characters and how I feel about them are what really make a book for me.
There is something about the way she writes her characters--they are so authentic and real.
It almost brings to mind how you get to know people in real life--you don't sit down and hear their life stories all at once (usually).
Bits and pieces here and there are dished out to clue you in on a person, and that's how Letts writes her characters.
This was a book that took me on a nice, winding journey.
"Nice" being the optimal word.
I didn't find it particularly amazing but there was SOME character development and the bad guy got his/her comeuppance.
The Brenda storyline left me unsatisfied though, and while I released that not everything can be tied up in a nice tidy package, there were bits that didn't ring true for me - for example, the introduction and picture of my mind of Vena really didn't match up with eh outcome at the end of the book.I found Bui delightful though!
Fav character by far.
Good story line and character development. Like a literary version of TV shows like Cheers that center around a place but the rich characters are what drives the story! Enjoyed it :)
Right off the top, I must confess that I hold a special place in my heart for stories that magically, profoundly, and brilliantly, bring together a collection of people that “normal” society has labeled “misfits”.
Reverently placing them on the puzzle board of misshapen hearts, and having them fit together as the “Powers That Be” always intended.
That magical moment of creating something immensely beautiful from all the discarded broken pieces that have been carelessly, cruelly, and arbitrarily pushed aside, or worse, rendered invisible, through the countless eyes of - The beautiful people.Billie Letts masterminds this extra ordinary collision at The Honk & Holler Opening Soon.
You found that special place called home.
Impossible Magic.
That alone didn't have me thinking highly of this book, but it did get better.Caney Paxton, wheelchair bound but broken in far more important ways, returned home from Vietnam and opened a cafe.
One drunken phone call changed the name from "The Honk and Holler" to "The Honk and Holler Opening Soon", a name that - considering the people it is home to - is more appropriate than you'd think.
Caney lives in a room in the back and hasn't been out of the cafe since it opened.
The war is still fresh enough for a few folks to call the little oriental man who shows up looking for work a "gook." Bui soon makes himself valuable as does Vena, a female drifter who appears around Christmas carrying a maimed dog she found by the road.
As Vena restores curbside service as a carhop, the cafe begins to thrive again.
Molly O, the waitress who doubles as Caney's mother figure, takes a dislike to her but hardworking Vena, searching for her sister, soon grows on her by being a good listener to Molly's sad tales.
I always love to pick up and read a book by Billie Letts.
This book did not disappoint me.
(Also check out Sandra Dallas if you also love this type of story and characters) I really can't explain why it took so many years after this book came out for me to actually read except that I rarely see any of Ms. Letts' books on a discount rack.
Her books are obviously perennial favorites without need for clearing but I'm a self described spendthrift (must be the Dutch in me haha) and rarely buy anything full price.
A very character-driven novel which at its core is a love story. Flavored by distinctive characters, the restaurant provides the setting for the rebirth of the Vietnam vet, his employees and friends, and the welcome for two strangers who just add spice to the mix. Love Vena and Bui as characters who change the town (and Caney) for the better. Two errors seen: it should have been stent, not stint and jonboat, not johnboat.
I really loved this book - it was a very quick read for me. I instantly became caught up in the lives of the crazy and quirky characters that inhabit the town of Sequoyah in Oklahoma and either work at or frequent the Honk and Holler. Letts does a fabulous job with the dialogue and the characters ring true. No great themes or layers of deep symbolism here, but definitely lots ofgood laughs and cries for the shenanigans of those that mingle regularly at the diner.
This was a surprizingly good book- I would almost say "amazing" but it was more like super good. It is about a group of people (locals and 2 strangers) who's lives revolve around a small, remote town cafe mistakenly called Honk and Holler Opening Soon. Its a bit much to review, bit if you liked Where the Heart Is, you will most likely enjoy this book.
Loved everything about this book!Fastest book I've read in awhile. I got attached to each character quickly and loved the way the author puts you right there in cafe. Great book!
This was an enjoyable read. The story is character driven and in a way all of the characters are misfits in their way but together they work well to provide each other with support and companionship.All the characters are well fleshed out and relatable. I love each of their stories and they each had me rooting for them.
A sweet, but pretty predictable story set around a cafe with an unfortunate name. Can definitely see this on Lifetime VPChannel.
Took awhile to get all the characters down. But it’s a great book. Read it!
I enjoy the writing and stories of this author and this was a good one.
The Honk and Holler Opening Soon was a mistake on the sign of a little restaurant -- the opening soon bit was supposed to be removable.
The charming cast of people associated with the restaurant is down to earth and fun, though not without sobering moments and plenty of action.
This seems like a real place; haven't you been there?
The regulars come together in a small place to visit, eat, and form a kind of family.
I didn't want this story to end.
You'll meet a young Vietnam vet confined to a wheelchair, who owns a nondescript cafe in a small Oklahoma town.
There's a young Indian woman, Vena Last Horse, who has lived on the edge of society's norms for most of her life.
And many others whose lives have come together from different places and for different reasons all to become a part of "Hoot and Holler." As B'iu says, "Boats goes where it going to go."It's a real "feel good" book.I'm very anxious to read more books by Billie Letts.
Another great read from Billie Letts, author of Where The Heart Is.The Honk & Holler introduces us to some very interesting characters, their life in a small town cafe and a great story line.I thoroughly enjoyed this novel and look forward to Billie Letts' next book coming out in July 2004 called "Shoot The Moon".From the back cover:"Caney Paxton wanted his cafe to have the biggest and brightest sign in Eastern Oklahoma-the "opening soon" part was supposed to be just a removable, painted notice.
Billie Letts has done it again.
Taking a few unique characters she portrays real life emotions to common horrible situations.
An unlikely group of friends, from Indians to a Vietnam war vet, Carney, in a wheelchair who is house bound yet runs a restaurant successfully and his friend/surrogate mother, Molly O, who is his only devoted waitress, and an emotionally scarred drifter who fixes hurt animals, Vena, yet who made some unwise choices for her own life; all of the characters have their own stories to tell.
My second favorite book in the ENTIRE world is 'Where the Heart Is' (DO NOT WATCH THE MOVIE - they *SLAUGHTER* the book).
and had to tape all of the Willie Jack chapters closed once he dumps Novalee, so that I could enjoy the novel.In this one?
After it happened, he came home, rehabbed, had his 'surrogate mother' Molly O helps him build a restaurant, and he went inside and didn't come out again for twelve years.But then one Christmas, everything changes, and the story brings together a vagabond Indian woman, a Vietnamese immigrant, an entire negro gospel congregation, a horse, and a three-legged dog.
I really didn't think I would like this book at first. It just didn't seem that interesting. I enjoyed it much more than I thought I would, and I would definitely read other books by this author. I especially liked the Vietnamese character, Bui. He seemed so cute and I wish I knew someone like him.
People will meet other people during the course of their lives who will help them resolve the difficult issues they have been unable to solve by themselves. At least that's what I got out of this book.
I loved this book. The simplicity, yet complex lives of small town people. Ms. Letts led us through a journey where you fell in love with the characters and left you wanting more. I highly recommend!
Letts has a gift for dialogue. You can "hear" the voices of her characters: small-town whites, Vietnamese immigrants, elder Native Americans, preachers, diner cooks, car hops, etc. She's a joy to read.
