https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444125.Land_of_Terror
Read this and the rest of the Pellucidar series in the 70s. Enjoyable!
Further adventures of David Innes and his love, Dian, in Pellucidar, the inner world inside the hollow earth.
This is just simply a fun littke book.
Not one of ERB's best.
By this time in Burroughs career (late 1930's to early 1940's) he had largely run out of original ideas and had largely begun to parody his earlier work.
The first half or so of the book is particularly poor, it's only when he gets to the giant ants and floating islands that the book finally arises from a one star rating.
There is some fairly good satire throughout including a surprisingly good opening chapter, before it descends into bathos The last chapter has to be the worst however being very rushed and bringing things far to quickly to the obligatory happy ending.
What can I say about Land of Terror? At first, I found myself bored. Then, a few pages in, I found myself halfway to enraged at what seemed to be the author's disregard for women as a whole. Riding on the wave of two failures, however, kept me reading until the end. Overall, I would say it was a pretty decent sci-fi/fantasy story.[Full review available 2/23/15 on my blog.]
This book has been out of print for quite a long time. After reading it I can see why.The story follow David Innes on another adventure. He sets out on a expedition, gets captured by a tribe of hostile natives, escapes, only to get captured by another group of indigenous people. Repeat this story line 4 or 5 times and that's all there is to this book.
As I continue to read the Pellucidar series I am less and less impressed by the story telling in them, but they are enjoyable in an Indiana Jonesy way. The characters are likable if a bit shallow, and the action is interesting even if the resolution relies a bit too much on happenstance.
The Pelliucidar series is my favorite series written by Edgar Rice Burroughs. I used to walk to Grand Central and gather bottles along the side of the road. I would be able to collect enough bottles and turn them in for the deposit for the next book in this (and all of his series)series of books!
False
read some time in 1994
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/12669105
I have the Ace edition.
