https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6259.Birdsong
Sebastian Faulks writes with elegant, beautiful prose, and creates memorable characters.
Stephen Wraysford and Isabelle Azaire take the central stage due to their tragic love-affair, but for me the characters that are the heart of the novel are Jack Firebrace and Weir, representing all that is good in a time of war, and the importance of self-sacrifice in times of duty.
There is a BBC adaptation, produced in 2012, with some alterations but with respect in the spirit of the novel and a great performance - one of his many great performances, actually - by Joseph Mawle as Jack Firebrace.
Split into mainly 3 sections we begin with Stephen - a young man visiting Amiens in France, staying with a wealthy man and his family, the wife of whom he falls into an illicit love affair with.
I believe that force has its own reason and it's own morality even if they may never be clear to me while I am alive."Further down the line we follow Stephen as he is enlisted into the war against Germany.
We see both the infantrymen and also the men who work underground, risking being buried alive in order to further their cause.
Having had the privilege of sitting with Somme veterans, listening to their vivid memories of the trenches and the contacts, and those friends who lost their lives, I can say, with great confidence, that the superb writing of Birdsong takes us as close to being there as is possible.A scene which, some may say, in the greater scheme of the whole book pales into insignificance but is still very well worth mentioning, is the extremely erotic, yet tastefully presented, first sexual encounter between Stephen and Isabelle, which occurs early on in the story.
Birdsong by Sebastian Faulks is a moving, passionate, shocking, thought provoking and heartbreaking novel.
A novel that manages to create a passionate and erotic love story combined with the horrors of war.
Faulks delivers a moving and shocking account of Stephen and his love affair and the trials and hardships of trench life and it seems as though at times you are seeing this all through the characters eyes.
Sebastian Faulks' Birdsong is a kind of Harlequin romance with a literary slant.
At the same time, Faulks strives to give it some literary taste, which I believe he largely fails to do.
HE is a plot-author with poor plot-pacing: his attempts to bridge past and present-day (a connection which fails to entertain or convince), repeatedly stunt the built up momentum of Stephen and Isabelle's romance, and later on: the gray-violence of the battlefield.I look at the top quotes for Birdsong and find dull pulp and platitudes:
My feelings may also be affected to some extent by other World War I literature that I have been reading as part of the Centennial over the past few months.I found that the frame story, actually a dual frame, diminished the war story tremendously.
In fact I wondered, prior to the war story beginning, whether I would want to complete reading the book.I've read so many excellent books with the WWI group that did not bother with that kind of tacked on romance, etc.
This made me wonder whether he may not have trusted his audience to come to the book.
There were quite a number of memorable characters, Isabelle, Jeanne, Colonel Gray, JACK FIREBRACE, Captain Weir, Elizabeth’s boyfriend Robert… like Stephen, they are all conflicted characters in one way or another, yet felt so realistic and believable.Elizabeth’s love story echoed her grandmother’s but with its own spirals— History Does Not Repeat Itself, But It Rhymes .This was my first book by the author, and my first novel with detailed coverage on WWI.
A very moving and haunting book. It captures the horrors of the first world war in such detail that it will stay with me for a very long time.
The gruesome, gut wrenching realities for soldiers fighting this war are told in phrases so descriptive that you almost wish you hadn't read them - about the smell of blood, wounds and body parts, the claustrophobic, horrific conditions in the tunnels and ultimately what the men lose of themselves .There are friendships and brotherhoods that grow making for some moving and very sad scenes.The novel moves across years - 1910, the war years 1916 – 1918, 1978 and 1979.
Stephen and Isabelle’s story came to life in the early parts of the novel, but I found it somewhat difficult to connect with Elizabeth's character as we meet her in 1978.
As our punishment for God knows what, we were there, and our men died in each of those disgusting places.
In the 1970's timeline, a young woman named Elizabeth is becoming increasingly interested in a series of notebooks that she has found in her mother's attic and they may just have the key to some untold family secrets left over from the war.Many times I have lain down and I have longed for death.
It is less the romance, but Stephen's time on the frontlines and his time with his men that was truly the gem of the book.
"It was not his death that mattered; it was the way the world had been dislocated. It was not all the tens of thousands of deaths that mattered; it was the way they had proved that you could be human yet act in a way that was beyond nature." This ‘review’ might sound like a huge cliché, and for that I apologise. What I don’t apologise for is the sentiments behind it because I mean every word.I approached this book, the third time I have read it, with extreme caution. I felt like I was meeting u
If you know anything about the war, whether it’s due to an interest in history, you’ve read books, you’ve listened to your grandparent’s talking about it… you know that this actually happened.I wish there was a spoiler tag for history but, unfortunately, there isn’t.
Birdsong is a shocking book and there are many passages that made me feel sick to my stomach, angry and so sad that I had to actually stop reading and do something else for a while.
It is difficult to read this book and not get immersed in it.Yes, you might get bored with the love story (and don’t forget that shocking and explicit part where people have sex!
More like Birdshit.
I may have given this book one star, but I really give it 20 piles of steaming birdshit.
It's just horrible.
Everything and I mean everything about it, is just horrible.
It starts off as a supposed love story between a young Englishman Stephen Wraysford and some French harlot named Isabelle.
But it's not a love story, it's a fuck story that includes bastard children, betrayal and whole lot of boring WWI shit thrown in.
After skimming through it just to finish it, my reaction was so strong that I threw it across the room and scared the shit out of my cats.
As the subtitle indicates, this is a "A Novel of Love and War".
I also don't normally read books with many battle scenes and with war as the main theme, but once I started reading this one, I just couldn't put it down until I reached the last page.
What moved me most was the detailed description of the tension in the anticipation of the attacks(i.e., Battle of the Somme), the horror of being trapped in tunnels thirty feet underground in no man's land, and the psychological effect of the sheer brutality of the war on the soldiers, which were unimaginable and devastating to say the least.
Some passages in the first part of the novel were so sensual that I almost couldn't believe a man actually wrote it.
Another touching foray by Sebastian Faulks into life before and during WWI.
Birdsong captures the drama of that era on both a national and a personal scale.
It is the story of Stephen, a young Englishman, who arrives in Amiens in 1910.
His life goes through a series of traumatic experiences, from the clandestine love affair that tears apart the family with whom he lives to the unprecedented experience of the war itself.
His depiction of Stephen Wraysford's life during the war is very realistic, gut-wrenchingly so.
The story is a poignant one, and Samuel West does a great job of the narration.
And worse – I feel like many books and films tend to glorify this horror.But this book never ever does that.
In the second time period, Stephen is a much sobered and aged leader of a platoon of infantrymen in the First World War. In the third, a middle aged woman in the 1970’s seeks information about her ancestors.The portions of the story that take place during World War One are extraordinary.
These men, so completely separated from the rest of humanity, manage to find some kind of closeness with each other – the only people alive who could possibly understand.So why didn’t I give this book five stars?
A hundred years have passed after World War I, one of the biggest atrocities in our history.
The last surviving veteran passed away two years ago, taking the last living memory of those horrible years along with her.
It is now up to us to keep alive the memories of those who have endured the war and of those who have not.
The book follows the life of a young Briton Stephen, whom we meet in France, first on a work mission, and years later on a totally different mission in the midst of WWI.
A short review can be found here and two passages from the book, below. Recommended. The night poured down in waves from the ridge above them and the guns at last fell silent. The earth began to move. To their right a man who had lain still since the first attack, eased himself upright, then fell again when his damaged leg would not take his weight. Other single men moved, and began to come up like worms from their shellholes, limping, crawling, dragging themselves out. Within minutes the hillsi
The earth began to move.
To their right a man who had lain still since the first attack, eased himself upright, then fell again when his damaged leg would not take his weight.
Other single men moved, and began to come up like worms from their shellholes, limping, crawling, dragging themselves out.
It was like a resurrection in a cemetery twelve miles long.
Bent, agonized shapes loomed in multitudes on the churned earth, limping and dragging back to reclaim their life.
The standout part of the whole novel is Wraysford's time in the trenches during the Great War. I have never read a book that has ever given me a clearer idea of what this battlefield was like, and the horrors that these men lived through and then carried with them.
It is some of the most powerful writing I have seen, and the chilling coldness with which Wraysford treats all this is really evocative.
He has seen it and lived with it for so long, tempered by a lost love, that he merely lingers, waiting for the inevitable.
take, for example, the great gatsby, which i had liked previously but became one of my favourite books of all time when i began to study it.
although isabelle does consent, there are some really rapey and misogynistic undertones that make me highly uncomfortable and i have no fucking idea why faulks decided to include them.
i was completely Bored for the entire novel, and isabelle and stephen's storyline is repeated in elizabeth and whatever the fuck her lover's name is, i can't remember.
now, supposedly this mirroring is supposed to Show The Interconnection Between The Past And Present And Future but to me it just seemed like faulks ran out of fucking ideas.
Their adulterous affair in Isabelle's home in Amiens six years before the war opens Birdsong.
The affair ends but their story carries on, surfacing many years later as the war tears into homes, flesh and families.
It is Stephen whom we follow throughout the story, he who carries us onto the battlefield, into the trenches and down those dreadful tunnels.
Halfway through the story we jump to 1978, where Elizabeth Benson has taken a sudden interest in her grandfather, Stephen Wraysford and the fate of the men who died in or limped home from the trenches of World War I.
But the turning point for me was the totally extraneous subplot involving Elizabeth, Stephen’s granddaughter, and the eye-rollingly unbelievable climax of her story.
In her late thirties, involved in an unpromising affair with an older married man, Elizabeth develops a sudden interest in her grandfather’s war diaries and discovers facts about her family’s past --- in a particularly slow-witted way:“Elizabeth did some calculations on a piece of paper, Grand-mere born 1878.
But wait, Elizabeth is also historically challenged:Francoise: “I was sent to Jeanne from Germany, where I had been living, because my real mother had died.
It was fated for me to read this book (at least I believe it to be so) since as I walked into the library, this book was propped up on the shelf seeming to send a message saying take me home.
Reading this book and knowing the conditions under which these young men lived and died was a nightmare come true.
He was a broken man, as I am sure all those young boys who survived were.
With so much carnage surrounding them, I am sure oftentimes even in survival, they wished to be among the dead.The writing and story, so powerfully told were only slightly marred by the woman, Isabelle, Stephen's love.
In WW 1 hundreds of British coal miners were drafted into the British Army to help build tunnels under the trenches in France.
The main character leaves Britain and enters the War after a failed affair....the descriptions of trench warfare, tunnel making, nerve gas, human carnage and the waste of war is a powerful antiwar statement.
Years later, when the main character's grandaughter tries to find out more about his life and visits "VA type" hospitals she is stunned to see veterans whose minds and bodies have been destroyed by gas and wound infections...a dark chapter in humanity and the first of Faulk's books on war.
"Birdsong" follows Englishman Stephen Wraysford from a prewar intense relationship with a married French woman to the battlefield of the Somme.
In his own way each soldier must deal with the trauma of trench warfare, or digging in the dark, narrow, claustrophobic tunnels under enemy lines.There is a second thread to this book set in the 1970s involving Stephen's granddaughter, Elizabeth.
There are events in her life that run parallel to her grandparents' prewar life which are more acceptable in 1970s society.The descriptions of the events in Stephen's life, especially during the war, were excellent.
I love the prose style, the narration of the audiobook by Peter Firth is excellent and the events already have me terribly curious.
This book is about the warfare of WW1.But there is humor and passionate love too.
This book rips you apart, scares you to death, rolls you in passionate, sensual love, one minute has you giggling and then later pondering the essence of life and death and fear.
And you will learn what it was really like to fight in the first world war.
You can swallow the horror because it is balanced by humor and love and passion and even hope and happiness.
I loved this book.
Cinco estrelas bem sólidas para a vertente histórica deste romance.A 1° Guerra Mundial que se desenrolou entre 1914 e 1918, foi aqui retratada quase exclusivamente sob o ponto de vista do exército Inglês, com muito poucas referências aos restantes aliados, mas de forma crua e rigorosa.
O conflito que era para durar um ano arrastou-se por quatro, provocou milhares de vítimas, e levou homens a viverem como ratos nas trincheiras da França e da Flandres.
Sob o pretexto de contar a vida do personagem principal, o autor fez um relato notável do conflito.Já a parte romântica da história foi, a meu ver, uma calamidade; começou bem, mas rapidamente perdeu embalo e consistência.
Faulks sections the novel into seven parts starting with the introduction of a young Stephen Wraysford and his unfulfilled love with Isabella Azaire and concludes with Elizabeth fulfilling her grandfather’s promise made to a certain comrade.
Faulks crystal clear writings run smoothly over pages engrossing the reader to feel the heart wrenching emotions of an incomplete love, the psychological effects that a war had on the soldiers and its aftermath.
A certain section that touched my heart was the part of the letter writings between the soldiers on the war front and their kin.
A devastating account of the slaughterhouse that was the trench war of 1914-1918, not only about the
From lovelorn soldiers, knee-deep in French mud, to privileged ladies taking tea in Blighty, Birdsong is a war story that appeals to both sexes. Class war/ real war; there are so many dimensions to this thunderous epic.Through unaffected prose, Faulks manipulates our emotions in a way that few authors can.My wife proclaims this to be her most favourite read, and were she to have typed this review, it would have attracted an easy five stars.
Faulks finds in him a suitable vehicle to portray a kind of man who could survive and do well as a soldier in the face of the devastations and vacuum of purpose in this war.
A war like this should make our civilization become more human somehow in response; Stephen seems to represent a miraculous example of that on an individual level.
Over time Stephen comes to care about the men he fights with and develops a form of love with two in particular, a captain of a sapper platoon and a middle aged "tunnel rat".
