https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12319.Basic_Writings_of_Nietzsche
سيطرت على نيتشه فكرة الإنسان الأعلى ولكن ليس بالمعنى الفيزيائي و الفسيولوجي الذي تحدث عنه داروين ، ا
It looks to me like one might have some issues with Kaufmann's translation, especially as regards "Beyond Good and Evil;" I prefer literal translations myself, and he seems to be on the mark with "The Birth of Tragedy."What you get here is indispensable - if you're going to do serious work, or make a serious attempt to understand Nietzsche, you probably need "The Birth of Tragedy," "The Genealogy of Morals," "Beyond Good and Evil" at the least.
Probably - you'll most certainly need to read Zarathustra, Twilight of the Idols, and The Anti-Christ, which you won't get here, just to understand "Ecce Homo," which is included here.
Sometimes while reading my imaginary self felt like a little boat floating on a dark, shoreless sea under the moon, about to be struck and perhaps incinerated by lightning, but my real self meanwhile was enjoying the sunshine and a bowl of seafood gumbo across a cafe table from this fascinatingly sane and insane man who caused me to examine my self and my life more deeply than I might have done otherwise.This volume contains several of his books: The Birth of Tragedy, Beyond Good and Evil, On the Genealogy of Morals, The Case of Wagner, "Seventy-Five Aphorisms in Five Volumes" (selections from other works), and Ecce Homo, I posted a few comments below for TBOT, BG&E, OTGOM, and Ecce Homo as I finished them.
It includes Nietzsche’s: “The Birth of Tragedy”, “Beyond Good and Evil”, “On the Genealogy of Morals”, “Case of Wagner”, and “Ecce Homo”.
Between those two books you will find almost all of Nietzsche’s best major works, and various representative collections from other works, letters, and notes.
The “Portable Nietzsche” includes a complete version of “Thus Spoke Zarathustra”, “Twilight of the Idols”, “The Antichrist”, and “Nietzsche Contra Wagner”.Now, here comes my general statement: Nietzsche is my favorite philosopher so far.
3.	Great titles.Just to name a few of his titles: “Beyond Good and Evil”, “Thus Spoke Zarathustra”, “the Antichrist”, “Twilight of the Idols”, “the Dawn”, and the post-humorous title based on a phrase Nietzsche also coined- “The Will to Power”.
It was only years later, after reading all of Plato, that the study of classical Greek history showed how I, and most of my teachers, had substantially misread Plato.The theme of Germanness as opposed to his own, more cosmopolitan vision is very important to a lot of Nietzsche's work as he lived in the midst of building of the modern German state, dying between the Franco-Prussian and the Great War. Much of my appreciation of the cultural aspect of his work, his writings and his music, was owing to an extraordinary girlfriend.Her name was Janny Marie Willis, a name probably different now as she has since married.
"God is dead" is not SOLELY about God, or religion.
Discuss.What can one say?
An ingenious compendium by a man who was a genius, who was head of a department of philosophy of a world-renowned university at 24, misunderstood (and mistranslated and mistreated) in his own lifetime, who knew he would be misunderstood, mistranslated and mistreated in his own lifetime, who became discouraged, depressed, spent too much time alone, got syphilis from sleeping with prostitutes, died in an asylum with the mentality of a (deranged) child, was further mistranslated by his sister so that the world, for a time, thought he was an anti-Semite when in fact she was, and who long after he died, turned the world on its ear by his ideas and writings, and who, at the end, may have been right about authenticity and good faith after all.One of the world's few true geniuses.
This book is the definition of cynicism, it tears down the foundation of everything admirable regarded in the common belief of our society; Nietzsche view everything with despise like a madman, but somehow ingeniously said the true sarcasm unseen in our minds.
I think it may not be an ideal book reading for enlightenment and self-help, and it is no good believing and agreeing to every doctrine mention and argued in the essays, but how Nietzsche see the reality that we confront everyday is eye-opening and thought provoking: it makes you realise how small and feeble human is, instead to be fed up by common lies and illusions fabricated by thousands of people, that make us the dominating race feel “highly”.
There are both good and bad guides out there, including some that are not so much bad as evil on YouTube, but there is no substitute for reading the source material, because only in that way is it possible to avoid being misled by commentators who misrepresent what he says.
In his comments here, Kaufmann remarks that one of the best critics of Nietzsche's writing is Nietzsche himself, and some of his self criticism is included in this collection.
Kaufmann says this is partly because Nietzsche takes the trouble to read his own books, which many of his critics don't.
This was a hard book to read, there is nothing basic about these writings, however, it was also beautifully written.
I can definitely see the influence Nietzsche had on Yukio Mishima, not just in terms of philosophy, but also in the downright literary, beautiful metaphors.
Nietzsche has a unique perspective, which although I still need to question if I even understand, has been an amazingly creative experience for me.
My only issue is with Nietzsche shameless sexism.
If Nietzsche had fought against sexism as strongly as he fought against antisemitism, he would be near perfect.
Regardless, Nietzsche, with his life loving philosophy, is a must read.
This book collects together "The Birth of Tragedy," "Beyond Good and Evil," "On the Genealogy of Morals," "The Case of Wagner," "Ecce Homo" as well as seventy-five aphorisms from "Human, All-Too-Human," "Mixed Opinions and Maxims," "The Wanderer and His Shadow," "The Dawn," and "The Gay Science."Why these writings inspire me:1.
2. He loves what is noble, instead of what is good; he hates what is contemptible, instead of what is evil.3.
Against absurdity, pessimism, asceticism, he opposes the will to power, the will to recreate values.
6. He values sex for its own sake, as a force for life.
And you've got to read this stuff with a critical mind to it - if you're just trying to accept it all you'll get angry pretty quick.
But Nietzsche is pretty much trying to break down the ways in which acceptance and complacence were institutionalized by European culture - and continue to be.
But you've got the whole range here -  The Birth of Tragedy is young Nietzsche at his most careful, but still a cocky bastard.
In between,  Beyond Good and Evil, which is my continual justification for critical thought, a lucid dream of a book where Nietzsche transcends his contrariness and provocation and enters into the sublime.
I'm not going to lie, this book got a little long. I was really into the writing at the beginning, but by the end I had begun to lose interest. Despite that though, this was still an enjoyable classic and I'm glad that I read it.
A banker who has made a fortune has one character trait that is needed for making discoveries in philosophy, that is to say, for seeing clearly into what is."Whatever is profound loves masks; what is most profound even hates image and parable.One has to test oneself to see that one is destined for independence and command -- and do it at the right time.
What is Religion?The "miracle" of the saint due to a belief in opposites - the completely "bad" man becomes the completely "good" man.Religion is a useful tool of control in the hands of a philosopher, but destructive when it becomes dominant.
Adumbrates On the Genealogy of Morals.European morality (Judeo-Christian, democratic, socialist) is "herd" morality which condemns any behavior harmful to the herd, including nonconformist behavior outside of certain limits.The final section anticipates "new philosophers" who may be a version of Zarathustra's "superman".
The new philosophers create values, are commanders and legislators, and above all, are against their time.
Nietzsche claims to love "the south", but takes neither Spain nor Italy seriously as European nations.
Greatest book ever written...Nietzsche's style, content, form, and sheer expressiveness stands by itself in the history of philosophy. Nietzsche's work is the epitome of self-determination, creativity, cheerfulness, courage, and independence of spirit.
Well translated and nice pick of Nietzche's work. I was happy to read this after reading Zarathustra. One is quickly immersed into Nietzche's mindset on the different topics and can comprehend his (then) novel views.
So far the best critic of Christianity I've read. Really great and interesting writing on the development of morality.
Nietzsche is fascinating!
I am born again in Nietzsche's profundity.
Beautiful prose with patches of ugly ideology. You don't have to love or warm to the classics to find them compelling; Nietzsche is powerful, provocative and unique - and therefore essential.
I'd never read much of Nietzche's works before; I'm now a fan (though his Larmarckian views are kind of an annoyance).
To read this and not fall in love would be to display an appalling lack of either a heart or a functional mind.------A few years later...A passing whim.
Though no mark is in evidence, the page has clearly been well considered.
A belief that man is inherently bad, a suspicion even of one's self, a lack of reverence for the great, the strong, the passionate, and a devotion to fear, the setting of self-interest before all else and ranking people primarily in said capacity...
I believe to give a proper review of it would be to study ancient Greece, read more philosophy from Socrates and Plato and delve into classical music more than what I know.
IV) "Genealogy of Morals" (August 25, 2016 - August 29, 2016) The point of view he writes of about God, I too have also believed for many years - "the longest lie", so to speak.
V) "The Case of Wagner: A Musicians' Problem" (August 29, 2016) So far, the easiest read and most understandable read in this book.
Picked it up more than a year later, though.Nietzsche's works are probably the second blatantly philosophical work that I have read; the first being Aurelius' "Meditations".
But as far as I can see, Nietzsche is all about interpretation.
Walter Kaufmann seemed in total agreement with Nietzsche's philosophy and did a rather tedious job of pointing out every instance of disagreeable meaning or criticism that certain pieces of texts had received.
However, they rang with a certain degree of understanding and easily explained why intelligent brains over the years have read him time and again.
I have had enough of philosophy for quite some time, thank you.
Within this context of hubris and expansion a young 20 something Nietzsche imagined a Greek heroic culture as a societal ideal.
(The Birth of Tragedy, section 1)“the new philosophers … belong ..
(Beyond Good and Evil, section 44)“What is amazing about the religiosity of the ancient Greeks is the enormous abundance of gratitude it exudes: it is a very noble type of man that confronts nature and life in this way.
Ressentiment is what is forbidden par excellence for the sick-it is their specific evil-unfortunately also their most natural inclination"."This was comprehended by that profound physiologist, the Buddha.
His "religion" should rather be called a kind of hygiene, lest it be confused with such pitiable phenomena as Christianity: its effectiveness was made conditional on the victory over ressentiment.
Woman, for example, is vengeful: that is due to her weakness, as much as is her susceptibility to the distress of others".
However poignant this may be, he often writes sarcastically about people who accept a religion of comfortableness, 'hiding in forests, like shy dear.' I both agree and believe in his view associated to blindly following doctrines.
Laying your burden's down to rest through such doctrines is to ultimately trick one's mind into the placebo like effect of nullifying pain.Thanks to Nietzsche's writings, I now recognise the importance of that: Not everything that makes us suffer, is particularly bad for us.
As for those who overcome struggles, are the few that will understand what it is to abandon comfort, for true fulfilment.
Nietzsche was one of the few philosophers who could actually write.2.I had fun reading this.3.A full review is impossible at this stage.
I read the book a couple hundred pages a time for over seven years.
So, this post is simply "notes" on Nietzsche.
I plan to reread certain sections and get Kaufmann's Portable Nietzsche next month.
Contrary to popular opinion, Nietzsche points out that Greek culture is not simply "Apollonian" (serene).
I sort of get what he is saying.
It is fun to read Goethe alongside Nietzsche.
Is the mature Goethe Nietzsche's Dionysus?
Therefore, I will simply make a minor comment on the edition itself.This project of this book is invaluable.
The scope, depth, and insight provided by the editors and Kaufmann himself are of inestimable importance.
It is easy to get lost, even the most robust of readers, in such a compendium, and I thank the editors of this volume for providing that.Thus the criticism.
Even more so, those five volumes excerpted here are not easy to come by, and are often horribly translated.Nevertheless, a full 5 stars.
I've read all of these books during my college years.
Although he dismisses evolution, I can’t help but think that his ideas would have benefited by the provocative and radical tenets of natural selection.
His re-evaluation of values, which this book focuses on, is a necessary result of the discovery of evolution.Nietzsche, however, emphasizes power over survival, yet survival (and reproduction) are much more influential and impactful.
In his effort to shock his readers, Nietzsche often comes off as sophomoric.
If not, you’re better reading selections of this book.
Random thought: Could the ubermensch or superman be actually a robot?
What will robot morals look like?
