https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1195367.Young_Fu_of_the_Upper_Yangtze
He gets into some funny scrapes, both with his employer and with bandits and he falls prey to different temptations (falls into debt, too).As a reader, you not only get an authentic taste of turn-of-the-century China, but you go on a coming-of-age journey with Fu, who, though poor as dirt, appears to have "the special favor of Kwan Yin" and a great curiosity and hunger for life.I found this a surprisingly fun read and I can't recommend it enough for teenagers who have caught a bad case of affluenza.
Careful spending increases riches.""Shall I teach the Ancient Wisdom to one who wishes to use it only for the earning of money?
It has been given that men might learn how to live, not to win fortune.
What is fortune without wisdom?""Safety lies in distance from the scene of calamity.""Character is made by rising above one's misfortunes.""There are several kinds of foreigners, as there are of Middle Kingdom men.
But to declare that they have brought all of the evils from which this land suffers, is the talk of fools."Regarding gambling: "He who rides on a tiger cannot dismount when he pleases.""No man is entirely devoid of goodness, and the princely man is tolerant of other men's weaknesses.""One day followed another with no lightening of the tension.
This book shows a Chinese community on the eve of communism.
I liked that the book did not go into detail on foot binding (I've already read a graphic portrayal of that process and don't want to ever read about it again).
I was curious to see how religion played a role in their lives before communism wiped out all religious displays.
It appears from this book's account that the common people were blind-sided by communism.
It's grip is still tightly wrapped around all the affairs of the Chinese people and just like the US tax code it will probably let go very reluctantly.
As I thought, it's not nice now.One of the things I like about books like this is the strong mother.
We see this throughout the book, but none is as beautiful as the time he loses a huge amount of his mother's money to dominoes.
Although Tang will lend him the money, he still feels compelled to tell his mother:"Since Tang was helping you, it was not necessary for me to know." Fu Be Be said after a long pause.
I have never read a Newbery Award winner that I didn't like!
The book is not that hard to read, because it is a young adult book, but the style took a little bit of concentration.But let me just say this: I love China.
Unfortunately I only know the words for cat, American, thank you, hello, and so-so (as in 'how are you?' 'I am so-so'.) So a typical dream would be as follows:Me: Hello American Cat.Cat: Hello American.
I only know the word for 'so-so' because it makes me laugh: ha ha moo moo.
Not only does this create a meaningful, resonant narrative, but it also makes the book more accessible to readers who struggle with prior knowledge, setting, or large casts of characters.Fans of character education will love this story.
It is similar to the term "Yankee," which can be a compliment in some settings and an insult in others.Third, Lewis uses the term in a way that signals the attitudes of Young Fu. One of Young Fu's character issues is a sense of classism and a belief that he is above certain types of labor.
Elizabeth Lewis writes a full story, fleshed out very well in all its details and with no consideration overlooked, in this surprisingly strong early Newbery Medal winner.
The 1930s, in my opinion, are a wonderful stronghold of magnificent Newbery books, and I would consider Young Fu of the Upper Yangtze to be one of its most deservedly proud offerings.
One of the longer Newbery Medal winners, this book nevertheless holds the reader's attention very well throughout with its enlightening and adventures stories, as well as the humor and wit with which Elizabeth Lewis has liberally leavened the plot from beginning to finish.
So far, this is definitely my favorite of the “old Newberys,” winning the award in 1933.Set in China in the 1920’s, the book combines worthwhile themes with very memorable characters with some Chinese history and culture, and even adds some sophisticated wry humor to the mix.
I feared midway that Young Fu was too good (actually, too "blessed"—my term) to be believable, and was glad that I was wrong.
Likewise, my favorite character, Tang, is almost too wise to be real, but the bitterness that he “had to eat” (the Chinese term) in his youth could well have made him so.
I thought I would blast through this, considering that its a kid's book. It was a bit laborious at times, though. I think this is mainly due to the fact that it was written in 1932, and the manner of speaking was true to the culture--it just didn't always flow easily, but I think writing it otherwise would sacrifice too much. My having to read it only a few pages at a time did not help. Not my favorite, but overall it was enjoyable.
This was surprisingly enjoyable, given that the premise wasn't too different from DOBRY (but then, I'd always heard this was good). I thought the atmosphere was great--you really get an idea of what the streets of Chungking were like. And I thought Young Fu aged very seamlessly and believably during the book. I don't know anything about its accuracy/appropriation/cultural goodness. Will have to look up this new edition with the foreword by Katherine Paterson.
Problematic for modern children, not really recommended unless a parent reads it first and explains what terms are now derogatory and so on.
The word 'coolie' is used a lot but is now considered a derogatory word.
Additionally problematic because the book is written by someone not of the culture they are writing about.After you get past that, this book is still a bit old fashioned and definitely has plenty of little morality tales thrown in.
It wasn't a complete drudgery like many older juvenile fiction books are.
Recommended for adults trying to complete Newbery list or other adults who enjoy reading vintage kid lit.
Very much a typical older adventure story where all goes well for the hero.
Letto negli anni '50, in italiano, nella gloriosa "Biblioteca dei miei ragazzi" di Salani, sotto il titolo "Young Fu, ragazzo cinese". Da qui provengono le mie incrollabili certezze sulla geografia e la cultura cinese: signora Foreman Lewis, si rende conto delle responsabilità che si è assunta?
I have to admit that when I first picked Young Fu it up off of the shelf in my school library, I muttered an unrepeatable word under my breath.
Not only was it another Newbery set in the Far East (the previous winners set in Asia were usualy boring, and sometimes a bit racist) but it was a thick, heavy book.
I loved Young Fu, as a character and I was totally absorbed into his adventures in Chungking.
His journey from boyhood to manhood made for a good story.
I feel like the Elizabeth Foreman Lewis had a good grasp of Chinese culture.
Within a chapter, it had hooked me.Young Fu and his mother, Fu Be Be, move to the city after his father dies and they are no longer able to make a living as farmers.
Tang proves to be a good master as Young Fu learns his trade and other lessons the hard way, such as buying a worthless watch.
However, he has good fortune to befriend a scholar who teaches him to read at no cost.
It would be useful to read some of Laurence Yep's books as they explore the Chinese culture as well and I was able to draw some parallels (such as with the opium).
This was the 1932 Newbery Award book for children.
I found the story very interesting and it provided much information about China in the 1920/30s.
Young Fu was a strong character who moved from the farming area when his father died to Chungking, a noisy, dirty, bustling city.
My edition of this book provided extra information about China during that period and gave me a better picture of what Young Fu suffered through.
Through a lot of luck and perseverance Young Fu's life shows much promise.
I would not have normally read this book, but thanks to our Newbery Goodreads group I was offered a great opportunity.
Young Fu is an incredibly likable character, and one roots for his success.
I liked following his journey, and his growth is believable and engaging.
I normally don't have much of an issue with this, but there was something about the combination of the forward by the author (a woman) and then the little jabs in the third person narrator, not just character actions.
(Young Fu's mother is pretty awful, only because she’s stupid and incapable…but what do you expect?
She IS a woman.
Groan.) I liked the book, but I yearned for a more neutral narrator.
It is a well written young adult book with a nice coming of age message, but what I really liked was the picture of everyday life in China at this period.
The turmoil of the times is shown as it would affect a young boy and the author does a good job of showing the conflict of the old ways and the new.
It may have been a bit rosy in terms of the boy's life but also reflects a young person's perceptions.
A good choice for background if you are reading about modern China along.
Newbery re-read. And the first Newbery that kind of felt like a Newbery. We follow a young boy as he becomes a copper-smith and a young man. I'll be curious to compare to Johnny Tremain which as I recall has a relatively similar conceit but with a silver-smith in Boston rather in China. Hard to say how accurate this portrayal is, but it feels real. And watching the modern world intrude into the story certainly adds to it. Some of Young Fu's mistakes and accomplishments are a bit heavy-handed but in general the writing doesn't feel old fashioned.
Great book.
I loved how it conveyed the message of what 1920's China was like and how different it is from today.
It also conveys how a thirteen year old boy would live in China: Young Fu had very little education, mostly because he lived on a farm for ten years, then being apprenticed to a smith and learning life lessons that most of us don't learn these days.
Through hard work and humility, Young Fu gained respect from others.
The book also showed the unfairness of life and the fact that not everyone is as privilaged as you.
Newbery Medal Winner--1933These early Newbery winners are sometimes challenging to get through, as their content is perhaps not as entertaining as it was 80 years ago. This one was fairly enjoyable, however, because many of the themes translate to the modern life of a child: loss of a parent, moving to a new place, making mistakes and learning from them, having adventures, etc. Young Fu is a good balance of growing up and having fun.
The Newbery winner was a great read! It is fascinating to read this book with the kids and talk about the differences in expectations, experiences, and life in 1920's China compared to their lives today. Really liked this one!
This was an excellent coming of age story - it is another Newberry Award winner. It has been several years since I have read this but remember being fascinated. The foot-binding that Chinese women subjected themselves to all in the name of status was horrifying but eye opening as well.
Lewis did live in China and did know people like the ones she wrote about. I think that is why the book was so surprisingly enjoyable to me - it was authentic; a reader can feel a real empathy for the characters.
A Newbery book I loved as a youth.
Oh, I love it!!!
While there he lives a life and sets out for adventures in a way a teenage boy in 30 or so years from then will not be able to live 'thanks' to Mao Ze Dong's cultural revolution.Some notable quotes:(view spoiler)[Finally found out why do some chinese man grow long nails on their pinky fingers:Boasted nails three inches long on each of the smallest fingers, a sign that their owner engaged in no manual labor."Laziness never filled a rice bowl."Their village was too small to support a school, and if there had been one, no child could have been spared from the fields.
The setting, characters and action of this book make it an overall good read.
The recurring setting and characters assist the reader with following Young Fu's evolution as a character.
It was easy to follow partially due to the fact that the plot is episodic.
The other reason being Young Fu is a likeable character and the reader wants him to do well and figure out the ways of the world.
I particularly like the way Chinese history and culture were incorporated throughout the entire story.
At some points in the story I think that the plot seemed to drag on.
He's in his early teens, the era is the 1920s, and China is on the verge of becoming...something.
But the author is a well-meaning white, Western, Christian woman and as such the 1920s Chinese culture is depicted through that lens.
This is something a Westerner would do, may be a Chinese teen would too, but the way it was presented seemed to be the author's viewpoint.
China is entering the world, even in the hinterlands of Chungking.
And there are people advocating workers' rights (the early Communists) and the author presents these in a not too favorable light - a not surprising view from a Westerner.
(We read about the first automobiles to enter the city.)I can't speak to the accuracy of Lewis' descriptions of life in this time period and place, but the story is filled with beliefs, customs, and traditions.
I found Fu's good fortune to be slightly exaggerated, and I think both he and the reader would have benefited from a bit more misfortune to enhance his coming-of-age.
But then, this book was first published in 1932.
Parents should also note that he witnesses a soldier murder a "coolie"--the only serious act of violence in the book.I recommend this for ten and up because of the death and the extreme cultural differences.
The book provides a precious opportunity for young people, especially Chinese kids, to learn about the history of that difficult time within a compelling story.
Biases are hardly seen in the book even though there are conflicts between Chinese and foreign characters in the story.
This particular time, which was two decades earlier than the founding of the People’s Republic of China, might be representing more chaos and hardship for Chinese people than progress and development, but it’s definitely one of the important periods in the history of 5,000 years for Chinese children to learn.
