https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16101128-the-5th-wave
Everything about The 5th Wave - an award winning male young adult author, a high octane alien invasion plot, the comparisons to Ender’s Game and The Passage - made it seem like it’d exactly my kind of book.
So at this point, count me unsurprised by the basic premise of The 5th Wave, but even so I still wasn’t prepared for how derivative this book actually is *cough*infestation with obvious red herring*cough*.But don’t get me wrong, I’m not exactly looking for new and original - I just wanted something that, I don’t know, isn’t a clichefest?
Sometimes these books get read by a few people and disappear, and sometimes they take off and become huge, gaining ever more praise and criticism.
People say they don't understand the hype, that The 5th Wave doesn't even deserve to be classed as science-fiction, that it is - literally - "the worst book I have ever read".
It's not a logical thing and it might not make sense to a lot of people, but it pulls me so entirely inside this book.Maybe emotional responses don't hold up under a critical eye.
Your review is not harmed and shall be released as soon as you meet my demands.In exchange for giving you back your review, which I am prepared to do, you will first need to provide for me:1 copy of The 5th Wave #2 – undamaged, complete, unmarked (except for your signature or a stylized message to me).This copy of The 5th Wave #2 must also contain certain characters unharmed and ready for me to snuggle them in my imagination.Characters include:Cassie – Because she’s badassZombie – Because he’s adorable.Nugget – Don’t ever even think about hurting him.Ringer – She is my hero.The Silencer (I won’t mention its real name here so as not to spoil) – This character is essential.
If I see that you have called the police (or the next best thing, your publisher) then you will leave me with no choice but to kill the review.I’m sorry it had to come to this, Mister Yancey.
If you could buy just one book this year, this one should be at the top of your list.
I'm just going to say it: this book could very well be the next The Hunger Games!
I've never seen a book more likely to be a crowd-pleaser, nor one with more potential to sweep away a legion of fans.
This book was so crazily addictive that I read it in literally half a day, and several months afterwards I am still jazzed over its edge-of-your-seat action.What makes this story awesome, and what elevates it above many other action-oriented novels, is really the writing--taut plotting, a strong narrative voice, snarky humor, and a masterful feeling of grim tension that can only be relieved if you turn the pages fast enough.The full text of this review appears in The Midnight Garden.
MIND BLOWING.I seriously didn't expect it at all.And the ending was perfect.Actually one of the best book endings of all time.You can find the full review and more about this book on my blogI can't describe how much I enjoyed this book.One of the best alien books I have ever read.This is probably going to be on my top ten favorite books on 2014.The style of writing , the characters everything was beyond perfect.I read the book in about 3 days and it was a great read.What I really liked about this book was the style of writing.It was unique and very well planned.I must say I was lost on some parts because the book is written is a lot of points of views.There were some moments that I didn't know who was narrating but I got used to it after I learned more about the characters.The story is what kept me reading this book more and more.It never gets boring.Believe me I was thrilled and excited in every single paragraph.It's so well written.
i do understand the "any port in a storm" mentality, so i am willing to give this a pass, but since it makes up so much of the story, it kind of casts its shadow wide over my appreciation for the book.moving onto secrets, twists and turns.
there was a passage i liked:I might be - no, I probably am - doomed.But if I'm it, the last of my kind, the last page of human history, like hell I'm going to let the story end this way.I may be the last one, but I am the one still standing.
one of the best books ive had the honor to read! A MUST READ!!
Warning: This rant will contain lots of swearing, and massive anger. This is a rant, so I'm sorry if there's weird grammar or bad writing. I'm really not caring that much at this point. So, please, bear with me.And please know that by no means do I intend to offend anyone, including the author. DNF- Sammy's POV.  I HATED THIS BOOK!Best thing to describe it? Boring as fuck.This book was my most anticipated book of the year. I was expecting so much after all the hype. But guess what? This turned o
It's like he's some kind of robot...(view spoiler)[ I know he's an alien.
(hide spoiler)] Ben, another future love interest(?), is such a boring character that he's as bad as Cassie.
It's soo pointless and I'd rather not read a long and awful chapter about them living together and this shitty romance.My biggest problem is the writing.
. I've never read any book with such shitty writing.
So basically, the book never tells you whose POV you're reading from.
Huh. Bad idea, Yancey.So , this is my mini rant and the things I hated about this book.
Just know that I'm not reading any book of Yancey's EVER AGAIN.
Stupid Cassie falls for Creepy Evan - and then things quickly turn into a retelling of The Host.
(hide spoiler)]The writing makes sure that we're constantly reminded of Evan's chocolate-brown puppy-dog eyes and hands soft like clouds (barf).The final thing that made me lose it - the cliches.The alien apocalypse happens and the human race is nearly wiped out.
There are hardly any families left BUT Cassie survives, and so does her brother and her father (view spoiler)[He dies later, but still (hide spoiler)].
(view spoiler)[ I think Evan's making a comeback in book 2 (hide spoiler)] So what if he never noticed Cassie before??
SO GOOD. Loved the writing style, loved the lead characters, full of twists, and wonderfully paced. Here's my full blown review/discussion http://youtu.be/ZvFFjazW930 =D
Maybe the last human being on Earth won’t die of starvation or exposure or as a meal for wild animals.Maybe the last one to die will be killed by the last one alive. The 5th Wave is exhilarating.The story is so thrilling and suspenseful that it’ll draw you in before you even get the chance to finish reading the first sentence. And it will truly seal you interest when you will get acquainted with all the adventurous, intrepid and bracing characters. Cassie. Sammy. Evan. Zombie. Ringer. It will b
How do you rid the Earth of Humans?
Cassie, Evan, Zombie and all the other characters are trying to find solace in something.
Yes, there’s enough action to satisfy you but please don’t expect a ubiquitous amount of it, for you’ll find this book rather slow and will be deeply disappointed by it.
The pacing varies; it’ll be slow for fifty pages and then pick up in speed, and vice versa.
I am the one not running, not staying, but facing.Because if I am the last one, then I am humanity.And if this is humanity’s last war, then I am the battlefield.
I hated how the last 1/4 of movie seemed rushed compared to the book -and my big pet peeve was that Ben recognized her and knew who her brother was (soooooo not how it happened in the book) and that when Ben and Evan finally met it was not awkward & hilarious (because of Cassie's lies and obsessions) like the book.
To me, one of the greatest things about the book was the running joke with her obsessions & lies about Ben and the movie did not play those up.
With the slew of dystopian and post apocalyptic novels coming out you can only imagine how refreshing it is to stumble upon a truly refreshing, incredibly well created novel about an alien apocalypse.
And don't let this term fool you, aliens may not be running rampant on our planet (yet), but Yancey has succeeded in making this event just as realistic as any other world disaster.
Every single page I devoured greedily and if I had to pick a book to re-read for ever and always this one would be in the top running (with a very fair chance)!
I can only explain the popularity of this book by the same sci-fi for those who don't read/like sci-fi effect The Host rode on, because this novel is nothing but a huge cliche with a nauseating romance of the variety we've seen a million times before (chocolate-smelling breaths and lopsided smiles, for the ladies, I presume).
In fact this whole thing is so much of a cliche, that I was compelled to check the copyright page of the book to make sure it wasn't some packaged deal thrown together by a group of people to hit every popular plot point (like Partials and Unraveling), but no, Yancey wrote it all by himself, apparently, and it's not good.
► That leaves us with characters that confused the hell out of me - not because of what they do (yet don't think I forgot you, Evan.
Yet I can't count how many times I felt bored to death only to end thinking after, hey, that was pretty cool.
I love how the story makes us think about what it really means to be human.
Sometimes we just can't, remember?)Oh, now that I think about it, I'm pretty sure that I'm safe in France.
- This book seems to cause such different reactions - I mean, really, my friends' reviews go from hate to meh to good to wow.
Nor are they usually accompanied by beat up Teddies and survival bags.I had seen the reviews surfacing and shouting praise left and right, including Kat. And for most of the novel, I was right there with most people who loved the story, rooting for Cassie.
I couldn't wait to find out what the 5th alien wave actually was.But that's when things start going downhill for me, because all of a sudden there's this weird insta-love romance that was, IMO, not done well at all.
I really enjoyed this book. Is it weird though that I preferred the Ben story line, but liked Evan waaaaay better?
I JUST RE READ THIS BOOK AGAIN!!!! finishing it in perfect timing--aka about to walk into the theater!!! (Old) re read this book this month and it was even more amazing the second time aroundThis book this book this book!  I don’t know how i fell upon this book, but I am so thankful I did! THE 5TH WAVE IS AMAZING! No wonder they are already making it into a movie without the series even being finished yet! I downloaded the sample of it on my kindle then instantly bought it after getting that sm
I JUST RE READ THIS BOOK AGAIN!!!!
finishing it in perfect timing--aka about to walk into the theater!!!
(Old) re read this book this month and it was even more amazing the second time aroundThis book this book this book!
I downloaded the sample of it on my kindle then instantly bought it after getting that small taste of it.
I feel like sometimes with a male writer it’s so hard for them capture how a female thinks, talks, and acts HE GETS IT!
I am counting the days till the next book comes out!
Read review for this book and others on our blog:http://southernbredsouthernread.blogs...http://southernbredsouthernread.blogs...http://southernbredsouthernread.blogs...
I really enjoyed this book! I wouldn't say it blew my mind or anything, but it was entertaining.
Una novela trepidante que engancha y te deja sin aliento. Sinceramente, increíble.
The idea unravels to become much more than a straightforward explanation or plot with many unpredictable moments involved.I really couldn't predict this book, every time I tried I was wrong and I loved that.Yes, there was cheese and cliches at parts, especially in the dialogue but those were easy to overlook and the book is sprinkled with some comical lines.The plot is enhanced with some great characters, Cassie, Sammy, Evan and Ben and the pov is switched between them all but mainly focuses on Cassie and Ben. I didn't prefer any pov as I enjoyed them all and the characters weren't whiny.None of the characters annoyed me and I quite liked them but to be honest I didn't connect with any of them.
*5 EXTRATERRESTRIAL STARS* "How do you rid the earth of humans? Rid the humans of their humanity." HOLY CRAP. This was good! I mean, like,  extremely, terrifyingly good!  I have already read plenty of books dealing with aliens and/or invasions, but for me this is the best one yet! I expected this to be yet another overhyped book series, but boy was I wrong!This is the first Rick Yancey novel I ever read and it completely blew me away, I don't even know where to start. I wonder why I haven't read
I expected this to be yet another overhyped book series, but boy was I wrong!This is the first Rick Yancey novel I ever read and it completely blew me away, I don't even know where to start.
I loved how everything eventually fit together like a really good puzzle.Overall, this novel constantly kept me on my toes and managed to surprise and completely baffle me several times.
I can already predict that this is going to be one of my favorite book series of all time.To everyone who hasn't read this yet, go do it now, I promise you won't regret it!!
Hace rato quería leer este libro y por alguna razón no le había sacado el tiempo, pero ahora que lo leí estoy encantada y deseando leer la continuación.La historia mantiene el misterio, vas descubriendo poco a poco una gran cantidad de datos alarmantes que te intrigan mas y mas.
Y aunque por la mitad del libro sentí que el ritmo bajó un poco, definitivamente los últimos capítulos lo compensaron, acción, peligro, suspenso, todo a la vez.Cassie me encanto como protagonista femenino, amo su vocabulario, me hace reír mucho con su forma de expresarse, y para terminar diré que aunque parezca increíble, no terminé enamorada de ninguno de los chicos de la historia.Reseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com.co/201...
There are action everywhere and I love when I have this hunger to know what will happen next.However, the hunger wasn't really present while I was reading this book.
As it starts between 4th wave and 5th wave, Cassie (One of the POVs) use flashbacks to tell us what happened in the others waves and how she ended where she was.
I feel this is just one more Edward-Bella story all over again, The pray turns into the love interest without logic behind it.(view spoiler)[ And that ending?
(hide spoiler)]Anyway, as I really liked the writing and a lot of people liked the story.
This book gripped me from the very first page and didn't let up even when it ended.
I loved the way he told the story from didn't pov's and the inner monologues of his characters were the best!
My heart was in a constant state of pounding in anticipation of what's to come and my fingers were a little sore after I finished from gripping the book so tight lol.
Loved everything about this book and I now can't wait for The Infinite Sea to come in the mail, which I ordered right after finishing.
i watched the movie and i LOVED IT, Chloë Grace Moretz is awesome :D THE 1ST WAVE: Lights OutTHE 2ND WAVE: Surf’s UpTHE 3RD WAVE: PestilenceTHE 4TH WAVE: SilencerThe story is about Aliens invading earth to kill all humans,because we're the monsters destroying the earth, and they're saying it from us, cassie is trying her best to survive and protect her brother sammy, (view spoiler)[After her mother and father's death (hide spoiler)]."I am the one not running, not staying, but facing.
And if this is humanity's last war, then I am the battlefield.""By killing us, they showed us the idiocy of stuff.

Yancey shows us many characters' perspectives, including Ben Parish, a former high school football player Cassie once had a crush on, who now fights against the Others in an attempt to save the world.I loved the tight and fast-paced plot of this story, its themes of trust vs.
distrust and how to find purpose in a meaningless world, and the development of Ben Parish as well as Cassie and Evan's relationship.
Perhaps Cassie's wit and her fight for independence within the relationship won me over.I wanted just a little more from the characters in The 5th Wave.
Like bullets and freaktastic apocalypse stuff and aliens and really realistic emotions and actions from the characters.
I thought Cassie was downright awesome.
And he literally saw Cassie and was like "I love her so so so soooooo much and my life means nothing without her omg." Dude, you have so many problems I don't even know where to beginning.• Sammy was 5?
It definitely wasn't as bad as I thought, and I'm 100% enthused to see the movie.
And like I said: Cassie was really awesome.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ ♪♫♪♪That's great, it starts with an earthquake. Birds and snakes, an aeroplane ♪♫♪♪Okay, maybe just the aeroplane part. Like this . . . .  It didn’t take long for people to realize that . . .  “The arrival of the mothership was not the beginning, but the beginning of the end.” Nope, the first wave was followed in quick succession by waves two . . .  three . . .  and four . . .  Leaving only the fifth and final wave before it truly is
I was lucky to not get spoiled (I mean AT ALL – I never even bothered reading the blurb) so I’m going to not spoil any of you and just briefly cover what worked and didn’t for me.First question I was faced with was: Is it possible to enjoy a book while mostly wanting to murder one of the main characters?
But as much as I’m done with the instalust bullshittery that gets thrown in to every YA story like this, I was able to keep on keepin’ on – mainly because there was a whole other cast of characters who were not idiots.
