https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3759847-his-last-bow-the-case-book-of-sherlock-holmes
His Last Bow--Preface--The Adventure of Wisteria Lodge--The Adventure of the Cardboard Box--The Adve
The final instalment of Sherlock Holmes.
That's just the 60 stories across 40 years then.
I've read all of them over the past 18 months or so and during that time I've fallen in and out of love with Holmes.
The excitement I first felt dwindled away as the stories became more repetitive and less inventive.
Yet as things were drawing to a close, I rediscovered a fondness for Holmes and even Watson in this collection.
I didn't enjoy every story.
I hardly cared about the mystery and was even less amazed by Sherlock's powers of deduction.
Review will be up on the blog (www.thebritishstoryteller.wordpress.com) shortly.
Reason for reading:And finally, the eighth volume, with the last 20 tales of the great detective...About the book:Two sets of adventures in one, including Holmes's final outing, twenty in all.
His Last Bow is told in the third person, as is one of the stories in The Case-Book – The Adventure Of The Mazarin Stone.
Two of the other Case-Book tales, The Adventure Of The Blanched Soldier and The Adventure Of The Lion’s Mane do not feature Watson and are narrated by Holmes himself.Quote, unquote:It was nine o’clock at night upon the second of August – the most terrible August in the history of the world.
This book was a comprehensive collection of Sherlock Holmes cases.
They were late in the life time of the Sherlock Holmes series, and were written in a different style then the books I learned to love.
Some of the cases in this book were very good, such as The Adventures of the Sussex Vampires or The Adventures of the Lion's Mane.
This case was also very short, and did not involve very much evidence, and there was not a signature Holmes conclusion in which he explains how he made the amazing connection to his companion, Dr. Watson.
I was inspired to read this, Conan Doyle's last Sherlock Holmes book, after watching TV's Sherlock as I had never read His Last Bow or a couple of other stories in this collection.
The Problem of Thor Bridge, to me, is probably the only story featuring a "real" Sherlock investigation.
His Last Bow only a few pages long and told this time by Sherlock himself featuring his war service and lacks the Watson touch I feel and The Veiled Lodger merely the record of a confession.
A strange collection but still one for all Holmes fans

Adventures and Memoirs are by far the best Sherlock Holmes adventures, and all four of the novels better than these two series of stories.
That said, there are a few stories in here that really stand out: the Bruce-Partington Plans is in this collection, as is the Sussex Vampire, the Three Garridebs, and the Six Napoleons.
On the whole, however, as Doyle and Holmes both aged (and Doyle inexplicably started experimenting with removing Watson from the stories), the tales begin to lose what makes them special.
I'm not saying "don't read these stories," because many are still good and worth reading.
Finally finished this last (combined) volume of Holmes stories and I must admit that sadly it was abit of a drag getting through it. Some of the shorts are great but for the main they seamed pretty cliched and full of silly twists and not comparable to Conan Doyle’s earlier stuff. Maybe for completists only. If you are looking for an introduction to Holmes then pick up either Adventures or Memoirs, they are fantastic! I suspect I’ll revisit this one in about twenty years when I reread them all again!!
Such an amazing experience not only through out this book but through the whole canon and series. In the last story, I was pleasantly surprised to not have assumed Holmes place in it. I just assumed that Holes would take care of these two individuals. I'll admit, a little short but still worthy of being a Holmes story. Otherwise, seeing as how this has been a first time experience for me, I very much enjoyed it and will come back again in the future.
Però, ciò che rende davvero particolari queste avventure, non sono tanto i vari e comunque molto elaborati enigmi, ma proprio la figura di Sherlock Holmes, che lungi dall'essere quell'uomo acuto ma tutto sommato bonario che abbiamo imparato a riconoscere in film e telefilm, è una figura tormentata dal suo intelletto superiore, incapace di stabilire rapporti umani convenzionali, disinteressato al mondo attorno a sé e destinato persino a drogarsi, pur di trovare un modo per stimolare o tenere a bada il suo cervello.
The key discovery, for all the detective's self-proclaimed 'method of logical analysis,' is often unearthed in some abstruse publication Holmes recalls having read in the distant past, while his numerous cuttings books are also a prolific source of vital information.
His Last Bow was first publiished in 1917, The Casebook of Sherlock Holmes a decade later.
In Sherlock Holmes we have a trail-blazing character who memorably survives the decades.
It's been a long journey for me, Holmes, and Watson, as I imagine it has been for anyone else who has dared to venture through this series in its entirety.
It has its ups and downs, with some stories feeling competent but without vigor, and others grabbing your curiosity and not releasing their hold until the final solution is revealed.
I loved many of these stories, and enjoyed others to a lesser extent.
If you enjoy both of those, you may be made of the stuff required to tackle the rest of the collection.
Ultimo libro della raccolta: mi mancherà l'appuntamento serale con il genio e la presunzione di Sherlock Holmes!
His Last Bow is more of the Sherlock Holmes' stories written from 1908 through 1913 in The Strand magazine.
Of course, the stories are uniformly outstanding and thrilling to read.
"But why Turkish?" opens the story of The Disappearance of Lady Frances Carfax.
Perhaps the most thrilling line from The Adventure of the Devil's Foot is, in a telegraph, "Why not tell them of the Cornish horror-strangest case I have handled." There is something about Arthur Conan Dyole's writing that moves readers so well.
All in all, His Last Bow is the penultimate set of Sherlock Holmes stories.
* The Adventure of the Mazarin Stone : 2 stars* The Problem of Thor Bridge : 5 stars* The Adventure 
An entertaining end to the seriesI have enjoyed the other books in the Sherlock Holmes series and I was both excited and sad to begin reading the final novel.I liked the fact that a couple of the cases in this book were from the perspective of Sherlock Holmes himself, something that has never happened in all the previous books.
There were some amusing moments here and there which made me smile and, as per usual, I was astounded at Holmes' cleverness and reasoning behind his deductions.I would recommend all the books in this series by Conan Doyle to those who enjoy Victorian mysteries and are fans of Sherlock Holmes from the TV and cinema dramatisations of the character.
This is an omnibus edition of the last two collections of Holmes short stories.
Hated the preposterous "the creeping man" in which a man injects himself with monkey hormones to become more virile and ends up turning into a monkey every nine days - Also hated His Last Bow which is set during the war and turns Holmes into a spy.The stories are very random and largely unconnected - Moriarty does not feature at all.
Over-all however its still Holmes and Watson solving bizarre cases in Victorian London even if these stories aren't particularly their finest hour.
Full disclosure: I did not read this entire volume; due to a publisher/manufacturer error, my Nook edition of the "complete" Sherlock Holmes is missing "The Case-Book of Sherlock Holmes," so I read only that section.
(Which was PLENTY, thanks.) But I wanted to review this particular edition because it is clearly published for true Sherlockians, of which group I do not number myself.
Up til now I have enjoyed the stories and novels enormously, but I found the annotations in this edition very distracting -- to the point that they soured the reading experience.
No doubt this edition is a terrific resource for aficionados, but Holmesian dilettantes like me should look elsewhere for their fix.
Ah Sherlock Holmes, you fail to amaze me. This is the first Sherlock Holmes book that I have read and I did enjoy it immensely. At some moments, I was waiting for the case to become clearer as it began to drag a bit, but the last case (The Last Bow) was absolutely brilliant. It was short; surprising and had a 'Sherlock Holmes' style more than some of the other cases. I thoroughly enjoyed it and cannot wait to read his other cases :)
Dvanáct krátkých povídek z "pozdního" holmesovského období. Čte se dobře, zápletky jsou netušené (i přesto, že je to sto let staré dílo) a snad se nenajde příběh, který by nudil. Za nejlepší ze sbírky považuji "Voják bílý jako stěna" a "Upír v Sussexu" - obojí příběhy v podstatě podobného konceptu.Takže proč ne.
brilliant nothing i can say that hasnt been already said truly the master the grandfather of all cops and csi original and genius connan doyle missed his calling if he was capable of this red the master enjoy be intrigued and amazed b breathless in awe
One of my favourite books, always relaxing and calming me downSHERLOCKED
There are a couple stories worthy of Conan Doyle, but His Last Bow reads like a grudgingly produced piece of commissioned propaganda.
My goal to read all of the original Holmes stories- 4 novels and 56 stories is accomplished, and was worth every minute invested in it.
Sempre simpatico leggere le storie di SH. Specie quando fa caldo e ci si siede all'ombra al fresco.
