https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29187.Time_of_the_Twins
And look, it even has good writing!"It is easy to have hope in the spring, warrior, when the weather is warm and the vallenwoods are green.
There, deep within, the vallenwood finds nourishment to help it survive the darkness and the cold, so that it may bloom again in the spring.""So?" Caramon asked suspiciously, backing up a step and looking around."So you stand in the darkest winter of your life, warrior.
And so you must dig deep to find the warmth and the strength that will help you survive the bitter cold and the terrible darkness.
But, shoot, I'll give it a try.The original Dragonlance trilogy (which I read in high school) was about a group of friends living in a fantasy world in which a medievalesque society exists alongside magic, gods, monsters, etc.
Time of the Twins is the first book of a follow-on trilogy that focuses on the further adventures of two (and a half) of the original adventurers: twin brothers Caramon and Raistlin.
In every pair of brothers, or even friends, one is usually the Raistlin and one is the Caramon.
Time of the Twins is Raistlin's tale, and when he's onstage the story is better than any other thing Weis & Hickman have collaborated on.
Raistlin's story is the excellentest part of Time of the Twins.The biggest problem with Dragonlance Legends, then, and the main reason for the suckiness in Time of the Twins, is that each installment of the three part series needed three parts to be fully realized.
Although we begin with a reunion by all of the (surviving) heroes from the first trilogy, the focus shifts to a much smaller subset: the sickly mage Raistlin Majere, who, by the end of the first trilogy, had cast his lot with the powers of darkness even as he helped the others defeat the powers of evil; his twin brother Caramon; the cleric Crysiana, a new character who thinks she can redeem Raistlin (and also he makes her feel all fluttery, although she's not necessarily ready to admit that even to herself); and, of course, the irrepressible/irritating kender Tasslehoff Burrfoot, who continues in his role of kleptomaniac comic relief and occasional conscience.The years have not been kind to Caramon -- yes, he's now married to Tika, his sweetheart from the first trilogy, but he's also (not to put too fine a point on it) a fat drunkard driven to despair at the thought of his brother's fall from grace.
Fantasy books like this are my guilty pleasure, mainly because I feel like I should be spending my time reading "classics" and whatnot, but I had a blast diving back into the Dragonlance universe.
I read some of the books when I was younger, and I'm ready to read some more!I started with the Legends trilogy because, well...
I remember loving Caramon and Raistlin and their complex relationship in the first Dragonlance books I read, and I still love them now.The subtraction of a half-star in my rating was because of Tasslehoff.
Yes, I loved this book, and I'm off to read the next!
Mızrak Destanı serisinde karakterlerin yolculuklarını, yolculuk sırasındaki arkadaşlıklarını ve muhabbetlerini oldukça seviyordum. Bu kitapta ne yazık ki bu yok, ama hikâye açısından kritik bir olayı anlatıyor. Ayrıca hikâye daha çok kapalı ve aynı mekanlarda geçsede sürükleyiciliğinden bir şey kaybetmiyor.
Book itself is worth 4 stars, but i really do not like the way author thinks that it is logical and normal to do heavy time travelling in this D&D series. For fantasy there should not be limits, but it just seems desperate, also execution in that kind of meld must be extra fine and here it is not.
The nostalgia factor definitely improved things, but I think if I had come to these books as an adult, I would hate them.
Raistlin wasn't actually in this book much, but the scenes with him were much more underwhelming than I remember.
(Uh oh...is that why he was my favorite character when I was a kid?) The only character that I honestly liked in this book was Tasslehoff.
On to the next book in the trilogy, which I remember Raistlin being in a bit more.
Oh, and another thing I wanted to mention: there are two maps in this book.
The symbiotic relationship between the good, evil, and neutral forces of Krynn is explored in great depth, and the narration is fittingly ambiguous.
And Caramon's love and loyalty for his (apparently) evil brother must be one of the most fascinating character traits in fantasy fiction.After reading Time of the Twins, I understand why Dragonlance gained the fanbase it did."This is THE central theme of Legends: that we have no right to FORCE change on anyone.
Faith is not dictated; it must come from within.
It can change the world -- one soul at a time." - Tracy Raye Hickman
From reading The Second Generation, I have an idea of what happens in this trilogy, and it seems like the plot could have been condensed.
At the same time, what does happen is well-paced and interesting enough to make me want to read the next book right away, which usually doesn't happen for me except in the cases of very suspenseful and/or very enjoyable reads.
I recommend this book to Dragonlance fans.
If you're not a fan already, this book may get you there but may not.
I recommend reading Dragons first then reading these books.
While I've loved most of the books, the Twins(Caramon and Raistlin Majere) were never my favorite characters.
Raistlin(a powerful mage of the black robes(evil) and younger of the Twins)is one of the most devious characters around.
Caramon (fighter and self-appointed protector of his brother) is basically what you see is what you get has started his path back to the light after losing his way two years after the War of the Lance(Chronicles) has ended.
Best summed up by their friend Tanis:" I would trust Caramon with the groups' lives but he would spill our blood on Raistlin's word in a heartbeat." Dragonlance itself is a 'LotR lite.'They are quick reads.
On to reading book two.
Like the Chronicles trilogy before it, this book is an oddly addictive hack job.
Early on, you will find out Raistlin is thinly muscled.
Then almost every chapter makes reference to his lean muscles.
She felt his lean muscles through his robes.
She could see his lean muscles through the silk of his black robes.
These muscles can be found under his black robes, in case you forgot where they were and needed to double check whether they were lean or not.Caramon starts out fat, but later he gets hot again.
Plus, the last 30 pages were oddly compelling.
This is a fabulous tale and if you want to read any Dragonlance series, this is it.
It’s a tale involving going back in time which is normally fraught with difficulty in writing a sensible plot.
Cameron and Raistlin are twins but more different twins you could not get.
In this tale Cameron is a shadow of his former strength.
Into the tale comes Crysania and she believes strongly in Paladin.
Raistlin wants to challenge the Dark Queen, but to do so he must travel back in time to destroy Fistandalus, the worlds greatest ever sorcerer.
This is cleverly written and surprisingly believable.
Seriyi geç okuduğum için pişmanım. Pişmanlığımın en büyük nedeni ise seriyi tekrardan basan yayınevinin İthaki olması. Senelerdir onlarca kitap okudum ama bu kadar yazım hatası olan bir başka kitaba (hatta seriye) rastlamadım. Bir yayınevi böyle önemli bir seriyi yayınlarken hiç mi özenmez, aklım almıyor. Yine de yazım hatalarını görmezden gelerek bitirmeye çalışıyorum her kitabı, başarıyorum da. Efsaneler serisi, ilgimi fazlasıyla çeken Raistlin odaklı bir seri olduğu için başlangıç hikayesinin devamı ulan bu kitabı soluksuz okudum. Daha fazla Raistlin, daha fazla! diye gezineceğim bir süre.
"Dragonlance: Legends" is actually a good series. And that's weird, because game-inspired books do tend to suck big time. I give most credit for complexity of Raistlin's character and for the fact that Caramon suffers from PTSD. And that's just great, because too often fantasy heroes tend to be completely immune to distress and we know that human mind doesn't work that way.
Much better then the entire first trilogy!! This book made wading through those previous books worth it. The characters of Raistlin, Caramon and Tasselhof are much more developed here and the story is incredibly compelling.
If you'd like to read my thoughts on Time of the Twins, I talk about it on my blog!https://writerholic.wordpress.com/201...https://writerholic.wordpress.com/201...
It’s not really a 4 Star book. However, I’ve probably read it at least 10 times since I was a teenager, so that makes it 4 stars.
Serinin şimdiye kadar okuduğum en iyi kitabı! Raistlin rocks!!
I know that I'm going to love this series just as much as The Chronicle Trilogy.
I have become so wrapped up with these books, that I’m actually bugging my friends who have read these back when they first came out, to re-read the series so we can discuss them.
I love how Tas stepped up to make sure that Camaron followed through with Tika’s orders.
I’m a little confused about Crysania and Raistlin.
I hope that this love doesn’t prove to be what the story is leading it to be.
Again, I want to thank my friends Mike and Aj for turning me onto this addicting story!
Dragons of Autumn Twilight was amazing, and somehow this book managed to be even better!I loved the dialogues and the refined, archaic-ish writing style, I find it perfect for the epic fantasy genre.
The plot was even more interesting than that of Dragons of Autumn Twilight, I guess mostly because it involved less main characters rather than a whole bunch of them, including some I personally never grew to care about.
This time, the main characters involved were fewer and already dear to me and thus, more enjoyable to read about.
This will be my same review for all 7 books in the original double-trilogy (plus the 7th add on years later).There are few D&D novelizations out there that are really worth reading.
Only two series have I loved, and the original 6 (became 7) "Dragonlance" novels are one of those great series.
But getting past these small issues, the story eventually became *exactly* what a good D&D story should be -- a *PARTY* of mixed races and classes, each with their own strengths and weaknesses, on an adventure where each party member has a time to shine.
There was adventure, love stories, human frailty, power struggles, etc.
Since this book stands out for the way it offers insights in its very interesting characters, I will focus this review on them.The titular twins Caramon and Raistlin stole my heart in the original trilogy.
This book hints at ways to see their complex relationship that makes these characters even more wellrounded.Added to that mix is an interesting lady Crysiana.
You get to know many of his actions and some of his intentions - but I would have loved to see the world through his eyes and missed this.And another reviewer (Brad) explains expertly how Tasslehoff Burrfoot is somewhat short-changed in this trilogy.
Time, War and Test of the Twins are, to me, the best that Weis & Hickman have ever written.
They are to 'Chronicles' what Lord of the Rings was to The Hobbit.The books are best read as one volume; I still have my original TSR 1987 omnibus hardback edition.Each character is unique and memorable.
I first read 'Twins' when I was 9 years old, and it's still as much fun two & a half decades later.If Time, War and Test of the Twins were made into a blockbuster movie trilogy, I'd enjoy watching them more than I enjoyed the LotR movies.
I remember liking Chronicles more than Legends: Legends, in same ways, is a more character driven, internal story rather than a grand adventure.
I probably liked the grand adventure more as a kid.I'm not sure how I feel about the first book in the series.
In some ways the writing is better than that in chronicles (the authors have now written 4 books and you can see them improving as craftsmen) but at the same time, there are some tropes or characters that are pretty shallow even though they are trying to be deep.I enjoyed the re-read, but again, I don't think I can really recommend the series to adults.
DragonLance: Chronicles and Legends are two trilogies that hold a really special place in my heart.
So much so that I can't really divvy them up into separate reviews.
I don't even think I could give an objective review of the books.
But if I know this: if I've had to replace a book from over-reading, that's amazing.
I've had to replace these 6 books so many times that I keep spare copies around just in case.
True story.Chronicles Trilogy:Dragons of Autumn Twilight Dragons of Winter Night Dragons of Spring Dawning Legends Trilogy:Time of the Twins War of the Twins Test of the Twins
You know what?
I'm on a review hiatus but I feel compelled to write a review just for this book.
Time of the Twins has a way of outshining its dependence on tropes and corny dialogue.
I don't know how it happened, but this book somehow transcends itself in a way that is nothing short of enchanting.
You love it like you love an easy chair after a long day or a favorite episode you've seen a thousand times.
Sometimes you realize what's happening is tremendously tropey and overcooked but you find yourself enjoying it anyway--that's how good this book is.
At times, it is straight-up spiritual.
Another great read from the Dragonlance series. I do sometimes have a problem with time travel stories, which - being of a logical turn of mind - I find a bit confusing. However because I was so involved in the book, I was able to let myself glide over the bits I didn't quite follow without disrupting the narrative too much :).I'm immediately into the second book in this section of the series as I have to know what happens next!
Small Review: My two favourite characters are on this book. Raistlin and Tassheloff. Caramon and Crysania are in it too. Interesting tale about the mind of Raistlin and the quest to rule the Abyss overthrowing Takhisis. This was the tale of Finstandituls and Raistlin travelled back in time to fulfilled it. Interesting tale.
The Dragonlance series was a love of mine as a young teenager. They are one of the main reasons that I love fantasy so much today. These are the perfect young adult fantasy novels that are very well geared towards boys...I loved them..
