https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3257136-dewey
Wow, am I in the minority with this one.
I like cats, I like libraries, and I've even known a library cat or two.
I didn't expect to rave about this book quite as much as many others have done, but I also didn't expect to think so very little of it.
A few cute anecdotes notwithstanding, there is just nothing special about this book.
Any pet owner could write as much (and many would do it markedly better).
The tone of the author was grating to me, and her experiences were not nearly as interesting as she seemed to think they were.
Especially those that idealize small town America.I thought I was going to scream if I had to read another paragraph about how amazing the town of Spencer, Iowa is.
To give you a taste:"That's another of Spencer's unique and valuable assets: its people.
I have just read a 275 page long eulogy to Spencer and its people.Try as she might Vicki Myron didn't fool me.
I would love to read more about that but I guess it was a no go as the people's real names were used.The book was really chopped (a bit like my review).
I thought I was reading a book about a cat, but I wound up reading a book about a woman with a lot of troubles in her life.
I'm very sorry for the losses in this woman's life, and the things she went through, but that's not what I set out to read.
I expected a good, light-hearted story about a cat, but every time I reached a point where my spirits were lifted, Ms. Myron brought it all crashing down with the next crisis/drama involving herself and her family.
I also think it would have been a good idea to include actual testimony about Dewey from people he had touched.
Well in the case of Dewey: The small-town library-cat who touched the world by Vicki Myron and Bret Witter, it doesn't.
Eventually the long-haired ginger kitten becomes formally adopted as a library cat, and named "Dewey (after the library system) Readmore Books".A charming story.
Searching for bits about the cat Dewey began to feel like searching for gold within the corn of Iowa.Vicki Myron's family certainly had a rough life.
(With apologies to Iowa's farming industry for the pun.)This reader has a sneaky suspicion that the "saviour" side of Dewey is overly stressed to fit the role he is cast in to save this small town and its people.
Vicky Myron's "Dewey" is a book about many things: life in small town Iowa, Vicky's own life history, the important role a library can play in the life and identity of a community and, of course, Dewey Readmore Books, one of the best known and well loved cats in the world.Despite the variety of topics Myron writes about, her book holds together so well through her decision to write honestly about everything.
Some of her personal and family history was obviously difficult to write about, but its her willingness to do so that makes this book much more than a simple book about a library cat.Dewey was, of course, the catalyst (catalyst) for writing the book and his story is a great one.
A little disappointing. I was expecting a book about Dewey but he hardly featured at all. I enjoyed the sections about the other cats but again they were out weighed by long anecdotes about their owners which did not really interest me. The best bits are the photos especially the one of Dewey on the cover. He was a real beauty.
A great library is one nobody notices because it is always there, and always has what people need.” A non-fiction book about an adorable cat and a small town's history.
I won't spoil the ending with how she changes her life in a huge way, but it adds a sense of loyalty and charm to a book that was already unique and special.Besides being a treat for cat lovers, it digs into the details of how special libraries are and how much they offer patrons, especially in small towns that struggle.
I'm not sure why, but cats and books have always seemed to go hand-in-hand to me (I've got a photo blog basically dedicated to it), and this story was so sweet.I really found myself relating to Vicki even when she went off on tangents about the town's history or her family; I grew up in a small town, and my corner of Ohio is often surrounded by cornfields as much as her spot in Iowa seems to be, once you get out of the city a little way.
Like my own pets (cats or otherwise), Dewey will always have a place in my heart, alongside Cleo, Lava and all the other wonderful animal stories out there.
Much like pets, embarking on this comparatively short 275 page journey, you're signing up for the little guy to warm you over, make you smile, and eventually break your heart (after a 19 year run).
With pets, we know what we're getting into and but we just have to do it anyway.
To outsiders our pets may be labeled "just a stupid cat" or "just a dumb mutt." However, if you've grown up with one before you've felt that connection.
Preaching to the choir aside, Dewey is a simple story of cat, helping people through their turbulent lives, with his warm unwavering love.
While this is not a great literary book, I give it high rating because it touched my heart and is such a strong reminder of how much animals add to our lives. If you have ever saved or rescued an animal, you know how grateful they are and how much love they give back. They bring us though hard and sad times in such a special way. This little guy touch the hearts and lives of an entire town and, through this book, continues to touch hearts.
It was an interesting (and sometimes bizarre) mix of emotions; happy, sad, or even disturbing.Here are a few observational bullet points:- 30% of this book is about the cat.
If you expect to have a book just about the cat, you will be very disappointed.- 30% is about small town America, 80s farm crisis, etc.
She went through a lot, and I almost felt like writing this book must have been therapy for her to get things off her chest.
It seemed like every few pages something else bad was happening to her - I felt bad for her!- 10% is about how to run a libraryI listened to the audio book.
When I hated grading freshman compositions, but before they started giving me chest pains (diagnosed as unexpressed anger), a friend showed me Richard Armour's "Lines Long After Pope, By a Reader of Freshman Themes." These few lines drove thirty-two years (not as long as a quick trip to Iowa seemed to take) from subconscious to conscious territory so that, by Chapter 7 of DEWEY, I could mumble: "Small wit is theirs,/ in shopworn phrases dressed,/ what oft was thought/ and twice as well expressed." I had been told that I would love DEWEY.
How many lives can one cat touch?
My whole life was dedicated to books and cats.
Then of course, a bonus was the story of the town and the cat.
https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Point is, our nuclear little family is animal-crazy.
I will gladly write a book about all our pets, because they were much more than that in our lives.
I can sing love songs in their honor, and write endless odes about them.
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...So yes, this is sooooooo my kind of book.
Ревю => http://justonebooklover.blogspot.bg/2...~ ~ ~Топъл и трогателен роман, който неведнъж ме накара да се усмихна, да се разсмея и... добре де, да си поплача! За топлотата и уюта, които изпитвах, докато четях книгата, допринесе и това, че си личеше как е написана от сърце, а любовта, вложена в нея, струеше из страниците ѝ! История за едно коте, появило се на подходящото място, в подходящото време и променило енергията и настроението на цял един град. Симпатично четиво, което препоръчвам да прочетете! :)
Purely a feel-good story (which can be a good thing or a bad thing, depending on what you like to read).
I can't help but feel the author was prone to over-romanticize Dewey and attribute absolute intent all of the time to all of his actions.
But, as a resident realist, the fact that Dewey lived so long, generated so much publicity, and obviously soothed a lonely woman who seemed to have a host of physical (and possibly emotional?) issues may have created a greater-than-God cat in the author's mind.
But the whole story was told in an almost too-saccharin-y way, for me.
As I walked out of Penn Station this morning, the proverbial country mouse blinking in the early morning city sunshine, the homesick hole in my heart was filled with a glorious and familiar sight--Borders Bookstore!
Every table and shelf looked exactly the same as every table and shelf in the bookstore back home--Cormac McCarthy alongside Love in the Time of Cholera.
This little Iowa pussy has, in fact, made himself quite the cosy home on Seventh Avenue.
Prejudjed as a comely mini-tome for housecoated grannies (regardless of the fact that our own well-respected marketing team has been giving us hairballs for weeks on end), good ol' Dewey is exactly the knitted cardigan type of book you'd expect.
An unforgettable story about a cat and his power to change our lives forever!!
I'd definitely recommend the audio over print.When I bought this book I thought I was buying a book just about Dewy Readsmore Books, his life at the library, and aspects of how he grew to be the most famous library cat ever.
I found myself bored with this audiobook and even thought about not finishing it multiple times.
I feel bad for rating this book the way I have but had to be honest in my feelings.Side note: Reading the book along with the audio is how I read this book.
This book is certainly a tear-jerker, and one that will appeal to anyone who has a heart, but especially to anyone who works at a library.
The book is one of those wonderful experiences where the story may be about a cat, but there are lessons to be learned throughout that can apply to anyone's life.
Things like (this isn't in the book, just an example of the sort of thing I mean) "Little did I know that this would just be the beginning..." followed by no elaboration on the topic.
OMG I AM O.D'ing ON RURAL CHARM GET TO THE POINT ALREADY.I am listening to the audiobook, which is narrated by the same woman who narrated five gruesome mystery novels by Julia Spencer-Fleming.
So, even though this book is about a pwecious widdle kitty cat, I keep thinking that any minute there will be a disembowelment.I really don't know if I can finish this thing.
It seems to be a Reader's Digest article that has metastasized into a bestseller.________________________________________________UPDATE: Nope, I can't finish it.
Cute cat, charming story, incredibly long-winded authors.
I did not need to know that in 1988 the library staff's fridge really could have been tidier.
Но дори да не беше така, дори човек да не е подозирал, че може да изпитва топли чувства към котка, Дюи, библиотечният котарак от градчето Спенсър в Айова, е котка, в която няма как да не се влюбиш.Изразът "топла история", използван за описание на книга, вече почти се е превърнал в клише, но тази книга е точно такава.
И само трябва да попадне на точното място, в точния момент, при точния човек, за да се разкрие тази уникалност."Дюи" не е просто историята на един риж котарак.
А в отплата иска само едно: да бъде обичано."Дюи" в никакъв случай не е сълзлива и сантиментална книга.
This book is in some serious need of editing. The anecdotes about Dewey were cute, but the long winded history of small town Iowa and the author were too much for me. I didn't finish this book and I wish I had the two hours back that I gave to it.
Не знам как се очаква да оцениш нечия истинска история с брой звезди.
Не си спомням кога за последно съм плакала на книга, но този път ще го запомня, защото тук не говорим за отронването на една или две сълзи.Дюи (котаракът, не само книгата) е бил топлина и обич, утеха и близост, каквато може да изпитат само хора, които са способни да отдадат сърцето си на една животинка до тях.
А когато понякога ти се струва, че това е единствената топлинка и обич, на която можеш да разчиташ, загубата на тази утеха може да бъде съкрушителна.
Oh, this made me laugh and feel sad at the same time. Having emptied book drops myself, Vicki Myron sure knows how it goes. Nothing surprises me.But Dewey's tale in Spencer, Iowa sure was something. With human reversals and our sad good-byes, nothing seems to unite as does a savvy beast who understands how to run all of us. Dewey's legacy, IMHO, is trying to focus on every day kindness to closest and stranger alike, and toward achieving a uniting factor of non-criticism toward the most peaceful people in every place we breath.
This book turned out to be about more than a cute cat. I also learned a lot about corn, family farms, farming and small towns, as well as about the author. She tries to stay out of the book, but that is a difficult task. Dewey is an amazing cat and definatley worth reading about.
Този малък сладур не е бил просто котка, той е дарявал хората с любов и поткрепа! Ще ми се да се бях „запознала” с него по-рано...От всяка страница струеше обич! Вече обичам тази книга! <3
(I know that's an awful thing to say, but they did....)I was also let down in that Dewey the cat didn’t really come alive for me.
There were several occasions where I could have found myself dabbing my eyes with tissues and aww-ing at Dewey’s adorableness, but this didn’t happen.
Judging by the statistics, and descriptions of Dewey’s behaviour, he really was a very exceptional cat, loved by many people…but I never really felt it for myself.I feel a mean and horrible person for not liking this book more.
Прекрасен Дюи, благодаря ти, че ме намери <3 Отдавна имах нужда да прочета подобна книга, която да ми напомни, че най-обикновените неща всъщност са най-необикновени.
Колко е важно да обичаш безрезервно и без очаквания.
Колко е важно да се държим мило с всички, защото не знаем през какви трудности е трябвало да преминат и колко болка са изпитали.Дюи - макар и на пръв поглед просто едно красиво коте - е наистина много повече от "просто коте".
Той е олицетворение на онзи чист детски дух, който ние всички трябва да се стремим да запазим.
Препоръчвам много горещо.
Няма да съжалявате.Усмивки и панди,Криси
Тази книга е любов и да й направя ревю ще е много трудно. Любителите на котки очакват да е посветена само и единствено на Дюи, а другите биха я погледнали с насмешка, защото смятат, че не биха открили нещо повече от историята на една котка в нея, но… „Дюи – котето от малката провинциална библиотека, което трогна света“ е много повече от историята на една котка и точно това ще се опитам да ви покажа с това ревю.https://bloodyrosered.wordpress.com/2...
This book is as much about Spencer, Iowa and the people who live there as it is about Dewey the cat. The author (a librarian in Spencer) tells of the people in the town and how Dewey affected their lives for the better. She chronicles his life from when he came to the library as an abandoned kitten to his death at age 19. While heartwarming, this isn't a cutsie story about a kitty cat. The town, the librarian, and the cat are all survivors of hard times. An enjoyable read.
