https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/904812.The_Giant_Jam_Sandwich
This book enchanted me and has been soaked in Cupids arrow juice for I fell in love with this story.
The story is told in verse, love it.
Also at the town meeting, I swear the people in the town are drawn to look like famous people.
Someone looks that Rhea Perlman to me and maybe Carol Burnett or Lucille Ball, not sure which.
It's only this picture they look famous.
In the other frames, they just look like people.
I read it to the kids and they loved it too.
They loved the big bread cooking.
As a kid, I was pretty much fascinated with any book that had giant, colorful pictures of food, so it only makes sense that my two favorites were Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs and this, The Giant Jam Sandwich.
Kids like to know the process, I guess.So the idea here is that all these wasps have descended upon a sleepy hamlet like a biblical plague, and the best plan the townsfolk can come up with is to make a giant jam sandwich.
The top piece of bread is suspended in midair by helicopters, waiting for the trap to be sprung.I probably liked this book because I liked sandwiches, so found the idea of a giant one quite appealing.
After a colossal effort, the sandwich traps the wasps – kersplat – and at last, that was that!
Only three little pests got themselves unstuck, and buzzed far away, not to push their good luck!My mother dug out my old and well-worn copy of this book from her loft 2 years ago, to read to my daughter.
The idea that the villagers can make and bake a huge loaf of bread, slice it and turn it into a giant jam sandwich to come down on the wasps - kersplat - is hilarious to children.
Another childhood classic that sticks with you even long after you have read this book.
Children who are learning to read will enjoy this book and watching the means to making such big food for such a witty trap.
This book can be truly enjoyed with a nice jelly sandwich just not over the pages please or if you are still into baking maybe reading to your child before going into the kitchen to duplicate the results of baking a loaf of bread then smearing it with jelly and butter.
The Giant Jam Sandwich by John Vernon LordThe town of Itching Down has been swarmed in by four million wasps.
However, Bap the baker comes up with a wacky idea, of constructing a jam sandwich to lure and trap the naughty nuisances in.
All their hard effort is paid off when the sandwich traps the pesky wasps.
The villagers celebrate their success and Itching Down finally becomes a wasp free town again.This book is an entertaining read with detailed illustrations, extensive vocabulary and rhyming couplets, useful for upper KS1 and lower KS2 children, who will appreciate the colourful images, rhythmic pattern and creative narrative.
The town of Itching Down has a problem. It's been invaded by wasps. After a community meeting, it's decided the ONLY logical way to handle this is to make a giant jam sandwich to trap the wasps. Strangely, I have not tried this at our house (though wasps love to build nests on our front porch), but the book is extremely funny, especially the various characters and the creative problem-solving the town has to use to make their project a reality. Fans of British humor should pick this one up.
Welcome to Itching Down. take a journey to a flustered town.The citizens have a problem:little wasps swarm everywhere.So the people decide to build a sandwichthat will rid these bugs from their hair.The loaf of bread is huge.The jam is sticky and sweet.The insects saw a banquetand landed on it with their feet.And splat!Three survived and took off for who-knows-where,but the people no longer care.So welcome to Itching Down.A now very happy town.
This is seriously one of the best books ever. I read it while I was visiting the Museum of Play with Rup in Rochester, and the title caught my eye. It is FANTASTIC. It's a picture book that tells the story of a bunch of townspeople who have a problem with something like four million wasps, and one brilliant person has the idea of producing a giant jam sandwich to trap all the wasps. Could there possibly be a better idea for a book???? I don't think so. Winner.
I completely by accident found this book at the library & was so excited! I loved this book as a child! And I'm happy to report that I still do 😊
this was one of my favorite books as a child. I loved looking at the detailed illustrations and finding all of the villagers at work and play. An AWESOME children's book!!!
Charming illustrations and story by John Vernon Lord, about a town that vanquishes a plague of wasps, with a giant jam sandwich. The verses are by Janet Burroway and they are fun to read.
Believe it or not, I'd never read this book before today. I've known of it, I could tell you the author, but I've not ever sat down (or even stood at the shelf) and read it cover to cover. It doesn't even have that many pages!Well, I've read it now, and I'm borrowing a copy from the library to read to my grandchildren. They will have lots of fun looking at all the characters in the village, and they will enjoy the story.
So it's not a waspish sort of town, the wopsies clearly think it is!), and, having apparently depleted the options of "evacuate" and "wait for the first killing frost" and "use up our hoarded stores of illegal DDT" the townspeople decide to get rid of the wasps with - get this - a GIANT JAM SANDWICH.
(You didn't see that one coming, did you?) Most people would have made many many regular jam sandwiches and have been done in half the time, but no, these people think big.They bake a HUGE loaf of bread, use up a HUGE jar of jelly, and SLAM the wasps in between two slices.
This is a great story about all the people pulling together to make a GIANT jam sandwich to trap the nasty wasps that were terrorizing them.
They could not fix the problem one man alone but together, they were able to bake a huge loaf of bread.
Together they were able to churn a massive amount of butter.
They trapped the wasps and together they hauled the sandwich out to sea with helicopters and balloons and airplanes and everything else.
This book show kids that working together accomplishes bigger things than trying to go it alone.
Great book for all kids.The Giant Jam Sandwich
Apparently this book has been around longer than I have, but it took me this long to find it!
This is a terrific childrens book!
It was enjoyable for me, at least as much as it was for my kids when we read it together (maybe more!).
The rhyming couplets are fantastic, the meter is perfect and the words trip right off your tongue when read aloud.
The story is fantastical - wasps invade the town and the only way to get rid of them is to trap them in a GIANT JAM SANDWICH!
This book is about a town who was infested by four million wasps, who were quite a nuisance.
They fixed the problem.
This book was great!
The pictures look a little old, but the story is cute.
All the townspeople look a little crazy, but they were smart when they came up with their excellent plan.
The text fits perfectly with the pictures.
And the pictures accurately depict what is going on.
This is a book that I would use for a bedtime story.
It shows an excellent solution to an almost unsolvable problem.
"An oldie but a goodie." Good for asking questions and making predictions...how will they catch the wasps?
How will they make a sandwich big enough?
What will happen to the sandwich after they catch the wasps?
It was a good opportunity to teach Mackenzie how to use the context and the pictures to figure out a word we didn't know.
Plua a good discussion of how to look words up in a dictionary.
The word was "pate" which is the crown or the top of the head.
The wasps bit a man on his fat bald pate.
Hence the context clues...fat and bald.
I remember this book so completely vividly from my childhood.
I have no idea how many times I read it, but it must've been several, since the images are so ingrained in my head.
I had forgotten about this book and when I discovered it on the shelf at the "Kids for All Seasons" camp at the Four Seasons resort at Manele Bay on Lana'i, I was soooo excited to read it to our girls.
But indeed, I felt like I was sharing a bit of my childhood with them and it was great!
The town of Itching Downs...it's that delightful musical word use that makes this my all time favorite children's book!
The colorful prose is only bolstered by the whimsical arwhork in this book.
I just recently retold this story to a friend's daughter as we watched a few pesky wasps while on vacation.
The story is simple and practical, and yet seems impossible and amazing as a child!
It was such a part of my childhood memories, that I searched out two copies for my sons ( it is out of print).
If you can get your hands on a copy, don't worry about jam hands, and grab it!
Haha, I love this book! Throughout this class, looking through books, I keep seeing books that I remember loving... for no apparent reason. This book, was one of those. It's rhyming, it's silly, and has great illustrations. I think this book would be great to read to any elementary class, it's just fun! The enemy is a wildly-disliked creature, wasps; and the heroes are townspeople. A very simple, yet outrageous book.
I see this on the shelves and my childhood launches itself at me. I loved this story. I still love this story. It has the logic of a child and so it makes utter complete sense. Still makes me a bit peckish tho......Both boys loved it - laughed and puzzled about the logistics through the whole thing. Still perfectly logical to them.A thought the tractor/helicopter was brilliant and C loved the image of the wasps all 'jammed' together. Knew they'd love it!
This is a classic in the canon of children's literature and picture books. It tells the story of how, as a collective, the people of Itching Down solve the problem of a wasp invasion. The verses are catchy and children always like the sense of rhythm that the bring but it has always been John Vernon Lord's coloured ink and crayon pictures that always captured me. So many little stories taking place and a proper sense of middle-England feel to it.
My brother was raving about this book the other day as apparently he had and loved it as a child. My sister and I didn't remember it but both thought it sounded familiar when he described the plot. And apparently my nephew (6 weeks old as of this writing) would really like it as a Christmas present so I bought it for him and couldn't resist a read. It's cute and fun. I think I'm going to like having a nephew to read kids books too.
My seven year old brought this book home from the school library-- we enjoyed it the first time when he read it to me, but the vocabulary in it is extensive (and excellent!), and we couldn't resist having me read it back to him immediately after so that we could enjoy the delightful rhythm. Not only is the poem/ story well written, but the pictures are fantastically funny in a "How the Trollusk Got His Hat" kind of way and we loved really looking through them to see what was going on.
Another of the children's book I still own that I read to my children so many times. I can still recite many of the rhymes in my head. My daughter recently said she remembers loving it; she is in her 40s now. I love these books written in rhyme with colorful stories and beautiful illustrations in color. This is a classic.
A brilliant childrens book that is still a lot of fun today.I remember borrowing this book from my local library when i was small during one fo their summer reads. bearing in mind that was back when we had little card holders and proper date stamping :Dnice rhymes and funny picture amke this a great picture book that i am sure children will still enjoy today
This is one of the best young children's books I have had the pleasure of reading. The rhyming words are an absolute joy to read out loud and have delighted my daughter since she was three. The illustrations are quite traditional and detailed in my edition, which makes a lovely contrasting style to many of her other books.
The Giant Jam Sandwich is a book I read when i was a child. I remember loving how the townspeople got together and saved the whole town from the swarm of bees. I think this book promotes community because it shows students that they can should come together to reach a commom goal, especially if the goal will benefit everyone.
I squealed when I ran across this at our library. My Mom used to read this to my sister and me when we were younger, and I couldn't wait to share it with Jordan as well. Just as I remembered, the views of the giant pieces of jammed bread made me yearn for a post-story snack (before the wasps arrive, of course!).
Great book! I enjoyed it when I was a child, now I read to my son who also loves it. It has a great rhythmic pattern throughout the book which makes it an enjoyable and fun read. The author has an interesting idea to get rid of wasps in their small town. The story and illustrations have led to many interesting and inquisitive discussions between my son and I.
