https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228244.This_Way_for_the_Gas_Ladies_and_Gentlemen
I have read a few of these concentration camp memoirs, which, strangely insultingly, are classified as FICTION when they are, of course, the truth.
But here, in the concentration camp world, reality reads like fiction, it is true.
Tadeusz Borowski writes with a heavy black humour about Auschwitz, which some may find almost unbearable.
Reading the stories of one who was there and was able to write after liberation, that’s another thing.
Imagine, prisoners living well at Auschwitz!
For several days the entire camp will live off this transport.
“Sosnowiec-Bedzin” was a good, rich transport.So now we overhear a conversation between two of these prisoners.
There’s the sense here that the inmates are like heroin addicts, survival their daily fix.
People will always seek power and perhaps never more so than when they are made to feel powerless.
Perhaps the most memorable image in the book is of a game of football the narrator is playing while a transport arrives at the ramp.
Probably what it does better than any other Holocaust book I’ve read is show the extreme difficulty of processing what happened in the camps or even finding the appropriate moral tone with which to talk about it.
Brutal, ruthless, relentless, the cold eyes of the SS look on, their well oiled machine is in full working order, a machine spewed up onto the earth from the guts of hell...There are 12 short accounts of Borowski's concentration camp experiences, Borowski was arrested by the Gestapo in Warsaw in 1942, shortly after publishing his debut book of poetry, before being sent to his new home.
Borowski wrote this book when the memories were fresh, not older looking back over time.
He witnessed thousands of moms and kids being escorted onto trucks that trundled along a little road that wound into a pretty little patch of birch trees while their strong husbands were made to walk in a different direction."Several other men are carrying a small girl with only one leg.
Dead babies, live children thrown into fire pits, cannibalism by those most starved, and the never ending zombie-like march of hundreds of thousands to the gas chambers ruined his soul.
At the same time Borowski’s writing is marked with strange indifference and some appalling calm while he tells about unimaginable atrocity and inhuman barbarism.One of the most known stories is the title one when narrator participates in unloading new transport what always offers occasion to gain some goods .
And when you think it is over you can read  for several days the entire camp will live off this transport.
For several days the entire camp will talk about “Sosnowiec-Bedzin”.
I’m thinking about Borowski’s life in Auschwitz, then Dachau and after camp.
Disturbing in the same way that the foreign film, "Son of Saul" was for me.
It was unbearable to read more than a chapter or two at one time.
The blurb on my book jacket conveys my thoughts perfectly."...This collection of concentration camp stories shows atrocious war crimes becoming an unremarkable part of a daily routine.
The will to survive overrides compassion, and the line between the normal and the abnormal wavers, then vanishes.
Borowski, a concentration camp victim himself, understood what human beings will do to endure the unendurable."Borowski wrote this collection of concentration-camp stories after surviving imprisonment in Auschwitz and Dachau from 1943 to 1945.
Additionally, being selected as a kapo forced his participation in many of the very atrocities ocurring at Auschwitz: Borowski was likely feared and despised by many of the inmates under him in the camp's hierarchy.The writing is terse, resigned, and strikingly detached.
The behavior of detaching oneself from ones' environment is exemplified throughout 'This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen.' Borowski himself creates a mental barricade between himself and his surroundings; in one scene he discusses playing keeper during a football game with other inmates.
Translator's NoteIntroduction--This Way for the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen--A Day at Harmenz--The People Who Walked On--Auschwitz, Our Home (A Letter)--The Death of Schillinger--The Man with the Package--The Supper--A True Story--Silence--The January Offensive--A Visit--The World of Stone
Now they push towards the opened doors, breathing like fish cast out on the sand."My expectations were very high, after reading the first short.
Mr. Borowski gives a voice to the victims, who were reduced to beasts from the moment they were loaded into the cattle cars ; and the ones that were lucky enough to survive the transport and the selection at the train ramp, saw their lives as prisoners reduced to nothing but a beastly struggle for life.
Whatever the rating given to this collection of concentration camp stories, one thing is certain : it packs a powerful punch, and is unmissable if you even want to try to understand what the victims went through.
You lie to stay alive, to get ahead, in both camp and civilian life (where he rose to prominence in the Communist Party, admitted that he’d “stamped on the throat of his song” and killed himself at 28 after trying unsuccessfully to intercede in the prosecution of a friend and writer two weeks earlier).
A hero neither in camp-life nor politics, Tadeusz Borowski was, briefly, a hero in art.Iggy Pop once said that when he got out front of a good rock band he didn’t feel anything, and he didn’t want to either.
We will never truly know what these people suffered in those inhumane conditions but we can pick up the writing that they left us, so we may learn from that and ensure that nothing like that ever happens again.Not all the stories engaged me on the same level, but either way, I do think that the title given for this book is powerful enough to make one pick it up.
I would recommend these powerful and horrific concentration camp stories to anybody who wishes to try to understand just what these people endured.
Borowski’s stories are written in the first person, and the narrator [if we assume it is the same one throughout – which for ease I will] is openly, actively involved in ‘the process.’ Now, one must not lose sight of the fact that Tadek has not chosen to be in Auschwitz-Birkenau, and in this way he is a victim too, but, nevertheless, the morality on display is muddier than one would expect, to say the least.The title story, which opens the collection, is particularly disturbing.
So I decided to have a go at reading Borowski's stories after all, before listening to the next chapter, about him.Initially I wished I could send this book back to myself aged 15-19 when I was reading lots of modern classics, when I had a much less emotional, aka hardened, response to literature in general - and was bored and numb to anything about the war, as those with parents or grandparents who were refugees from it sometimes became… All the conversations, all the documentaries whenever they were on TV, all the novels about it, even for kids and teenagers.
I have read so many of these but this one is the most brutal in terms of vividly describing the scenes in the concentration camp - Auschwitz.
(Note: the most popular Holocaust book by Anne Frank, "The Diary of a Young Girl" has no concentration camp scene).
Or maybe I am depressed.
Holocaust books are eye-opener: my problem is nothing compared with how the victims suffered from the hands of the Nazis or Aryans or even fellow Jews who are happened to be given some assignments in the concentration camps.
Impossible to do justice to this book in a review. A slim volume of 180 pages that takes a while to read because of the horror of Auschwitz, conveyed in such simple language that gives a sense of trying to survive under the constant smoke and ash from the ovens. Not an easy read, but it is not fiction. Written by a survivor who committed suicide in 1951.
If you can read more than one story at once, your capacity for the banality of human injustice and horror is great indeed.
The only hope to be found in reading this collection of short stories is in the knowledge that the author survived to tell them.The 5-star rating system is ridiculously inadequate for a book like this--perhaps for all books.
Did I 'like' it?
Did I 'enjoy' reading it?
There are no Schindler's in these stories, no heroes.
Only people struggling for survival under the worst of conditions.
While Primo Levi chose the genre, memoir Borowski chose the form of short stories.
The shadow of the concentration camp stands over his entire life and the entire collection.Each story impacts you - and when I say impact I am not just using an interesting word to praise the book.
And, having saved himself, he will commit crimes for increasingly trivial reasons; he will commit them first out of duty, then from habit, and finally--for pleasure.'The world is ruled by neither justice nor morality; crime is not punished nor virtue rewarded, one is forgotten as quickly as the other.
I learned that the town Auschwitz itself could see the prisoners, and the author having found his way into a better job in the hospital, feels comfort in this part of the camp compared to the shabby and fatal Birkenau killing factory, observes from his new vantage (p 100): “What delightful days: no roll-call, no duties to perform.
Borowski's experiences are horrendous.
His writing is superb.
With few words and little emotion he manages to bring the horror of the concentration camp experience into these pages.
His writing style, detached, shows how man had to separate himself in order to live day to day under these horrific conditions.
Perhaps I'm reading things into Borowski's words.
And we remain as numb as trees when they are being cut down, or stones when they are being crushed.""...with a tremendous intellectual effort I attempt to grasp the true significance of the events, things and people I have seen."
Borowski is able to make the reader feel how very mundane and acceptable killing and torture became to the inmates.
The oven, the barracks, back to the oven,,...Well, if you really want to know ...'we've figured out a new way to burn people.
As Borowski says, In order to survive one had to go numb, feel nothing at all while, for instance, pocketing food left behind by those walking to the gas chambers,  At the same time, Borowski shows us that he, somehow, still maintained his humanity.
This is obvious in the love letters he writes to his fiance in a nearby camp.
Tadeusz Borowski contributed articles, stories and poems to underground Polish publications during World War II which caused him to be arrested by the Gestapo in February 1943 and sent to Auschwitz were he spent almost two years before being transferred to Dachau.
Borowski factual seemingly detached point of view can cause the reader to question Borowski's basic humanity.
This collection of short stories is recognized as a classic in Poland but has languished in relative obscurity in the Anglo Saxon world which is unfortunate.
This story was turned by Andrzej Wajda into the brilliant movie Landscape after the Battle which is well worth viewing.Borowski was a sharp observer and an excellent literary stylist.
These semi-autobiographical stories are incredibly difficult to read; the mind, at least the sane mind, jerks backward from them like a panicked, rearing horse. The book should be read not only because the writing is superb, but because I don’t know of any other way to stand with the victims other than by reading about them, in this book and others, and forcing myself to see them as wide-eyed as I can, something I feel compelled to do, even if such make-believe solidarity is futile and of no benefit to the dead.
Review soon.
Passage from this book:"The four of us became involved in a heated discussion...by maintaining that in this war morality, national solidarity, patriotism and the ideals of freedom, justice and human dignity had all slid off man like a rotten rag.
You've probably not read another Holocaust book like this.
All humanity, and even the victims, are reviled.Borowski killed himself in 1951, ironically with gas, just a few years after being released from a concentration camp.
In another world, if Borowski had completely made up these stories, we would call him a darkly mad genius, one of the most creative fiction writers of the 20th century.
He killed himself in 1951 -- he opened a gas valve.These stories are based on Borowski's experiences, and they are among the most haunting testaments ever recorded to human cruelty.
It bears mentioning again: these stories will feel like the horrible fiction of a sadistic mind, but they are firmly rooted in fact, in the documented reality of true hell on earth.As a Jew, but especially as a human, I feel it is vital for everyone to know what went on in the concentration camps.
This was really good! probably my favourite piece of Holocaust literature I've ever read. I loved the way it was told and the way Borowski wrote and I do like the translation as well.It taught me things I didn't know and showed me a different sort of experience of the Holocaust.Out of all the really well known Holocaust literature, this is the one I recommend the most.Around The Year in 52 Books Challenge #45 - A book related to a hobby or passion(I study the Holocaust)
This book will denies the reader the comforting fallacy of a world in black and white, a world made up of evil people and good ones.
Although to say he survived the camps is misleading, as he committed suicide by gas in 1951.
This is the morality of the camps, these are some of the lessons to be derived from these anti-heroic stories drawn from Borowski’s experiences, but the book cannot be reduced to such platitudes.
Truly one of the most profound reading experiences I have ever had, and one I will surely return to.
He was then just almost 17 years old.During the German occupation of Poland secondary school and college were prohibited.
TB died in the evening of 1 July 1951, three days after his wife (his former fiancee who had also survived the concentration camps) gave birth to their daughter.
Not being a Jew, and technically an Aryan, TB was treated a little bit differently from most of the victims of this genocide, most of whom had gone stright to the gas chambers the minute they arrive at the concentration camps.
The concentration camp prisoners descend upon the dead Russian soldiers.
But the ingredients of his stories are real concentration camp events, and they are presented with a dry, sometimes jaded reportage style, even though they all have an "I" in the midst of them.
The stories are painful, not only because of the portrayal of atrocities, but because of the revealed psychology, that largely goes unspoken and unanalyzed, but which is apparent in the transformed characters of the inmates themselves.The author, in his own self-confessed "concentration-camp mentality" has a remarkable awareness of his own lack of self-awareness.
For that is the most painful message to emerge from the stories--a message that many didn't ever want to hear: another term for survivor's-guilt is guilt.
The collection of short stories was written by Borowski, a Polish prisoner in Dachau during WW II.
Borowski was a political prisoner, not a Jew, but was forced to undergo essentially the same punishments as all the other inmates – excepting the final execution.
The stories were initially circulated among his Polish friends after being written and were ultimately published at the urging of friends of his who were in the publishing business.
It is a landmark collection of Holocaust literature.
This is a very different view from most of the Holocaust literature that I have read.
