https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50848.The_Rolling_Stones
Heinlein(Original Review, 1980)THE ROLLING STONES happens to be a fascinating example of degeneration --- Grandma quit engineering because three less-competent men were promoted over her, Mother is a competent but very womanly doctor, and Daughter (what little we find out of her) is mostly hormones.
I think it's also fair to say that TRS is the most liberal portrayal of women that Heinlein has ever created.
Granted, Heinlein liked to write most of his famous material to well-defined audiences (THE STAR BEAST, complete with tiresome mother and conniving female chum, might have been written to order for BOY'S LIFE, but my copy doesn't mention any serialization (means nothing, though; I have the Ace reissue and they are among the worst at crediting prior publication.)
While it was a fun adventure about a wisecracking, hyper-competent family of adventurers seeking their fortune (and something adventurous) out in the solar system, there isn't much to impress the modern SF reader about flying a rocket ship to Mars, Venus, and beyond.The Stones consist of Castor and Pollux, trouble-making teenage twins always scheming to get rich and prove they're the smartest people in any room, who drive most of the adventure with their original idea to buy an old mining ship.
Of course, anyone who’s met their grandmother Hazel would know they came by it honestly.Join the Stone twins as they connive, cajole, and bamboozle their way across the solar system in the company of the most high-spirited and hilarious family in all of science fiction.
The twins Castor and Pollux reminded me a little bit of Fred and George Weasley from Harry Potter.
The Expanse series came to mind with its Belters and Martian colonies.While there were some enjoyably funny moments, I did feel like the book was a bit dull at times.
This was written way back in the 50s so some of it feels a bit dated.
My first Heinlein read. Fundamentally the story line is close to the Lost in Space television series of many years ago. The book is easy to read, and I highly recommend young readers take a look at how future space travel was viewed some 57 years ago. The book has valuable insights into family values, and dealing with nearly absolute isolation for long periods of time. And they did not have Game Boys!

His characters have now started to settle into what would become a Heinlein archetype – bright and intelligent, which at times shows that ‘hectoring and lecturing’ that would be apparent in his later work.The Rolling Stones is a story like Between Planets that takes place on a wider canvas – this time, it’s Luna, Mars, the Asteroid Belt, around Saturn – but whereas previous tales have focused around one key character, this time the plot is predominantly about a family.And that’s something I found a tad annoying.
The easiest way to describe this book is that it's an amusing family road trip...
Oh and flat cats, which are best described as, well, tribbles, but flatter.The description of this book focuses on the twins, but Castor and Pollux are nothing without the support of their family--and what a supportive family it is.
The Stones are what every family should aspire to be like, and this book was what every family trip wishes it could be (though maybe without the deadly diseases and other critical threats of interplanetary travel.)www.bibliosanctum.com
This is a good, old-fashioned, family space opera.
Clearly intended for a younger audience -this is one of Heinlein's juvenile series- a fun read nevertheless.
I heard the audio book by Full Cast Audio, the same company that did Have Space Suit, Will Travel.
They did a pretty good job, (On par with the cast at your local dinner theater) except for the youngest boy in the Stone family, who sounded like a little kid in The Simpsons cartoon show.Grandmother Hazel is a recurring character, playing a major role as a young woman in The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, published 13 years later.
She also appears in a couple of other Heinlein novels.
It's actually the book, not the audio cd but I like the cover art better.Oh, yeah. Back in days when planning a family vacation meant choosing between a Hohmann ellipse and a hyperbolic cometary orbit. Great fun for all the family. Even smells like an old library paperback at Hugo's if you get the super old copy.This contains the material that was stolen to make the Tribbles episode on the original Star Trek. Believe it or not.
3.5 starsThe Rolling Stones represents a juvenile novel that straddles the old-fashion Tom Sawyer/Ivanhoe feel with modern day fiction. It is fun, occasionally funny, and full of exciting adventures. It got a little too trouble with tribbles for my taste near the end...But then went unexpectedly deep and heart-wrenching for a little bit which brought it back in my estimation. I don't think I am going to rush out to read more Heinlein, but at the same time I enjoyed it.
They are also concerned with making money, so they must plan for, and acquire, appropriate cargo.The Stone family banters its way around the Solar System and has a variety of adventures including selling bicycles on Mars, visiting mining operations on asteroids, meeting a plague ship, and inadvertently breeding Flat Cats.
All the while, though, their family love and loyalty stays strong.The Rolling Stones isn’t one of Heinlein’s best Juveniles, and it often feels dated (slide rules!), but it’s a fun and sweet little science fiction adventure that many kids and teenagers will enjoy.
Ahh, so THIS book is where Hazel Stone is from.
I really should not have read The Cat Who Walks Through Walls before working my way through Heinlein's bibliography.
The book contains several distinct adventures, each with a fairly pat conclusion, some variation on "and then everything was all right again.
Hooray!" Despite this shortcoming, the adventures are entertaining, Heinlein gives some, but not too much, education about astrophysics, and the banter is witty (and sexist, but Heinlein writes no other way).
If you're looking for one book to give you the distinct flavor of Heinlein's early works, this is the one to read.
Listened to this book on a long car ride.
What a fun book...a full cast of readers and music made this audio book especially fun!
Even though this book was considered juvenile fiction and my husband had read it as a teen, we still enjoyed it!
I especially liked his character "Hazel", Grandma of the clan and a woman's libber!
This book was just plain fun and the reading cast was terrific!
This would be a great audio book for both adults and young teens on a long car ride.
The Rolling Stones is one of Heinlein's finer juveniles.
I'm looking forward in a year or two to introducing my youngest, currently 4 years old, to Heinlein through this book.As always, Heinlein's flare for creating wonderful characters shines through.
Typical of the early works, the plot is gripping and set against a backdrop of space travel.
It is always a pleasure to encounter Hazel (Mead) Stone who is a recurring character in one of the universes that Heinlein creates, though startling (even after five reads) to find her an old woman.
I picked up quite a few things from this, like the design for a space scooter in the Asteroids, and the utility of bicycles on Mars.Hazel Stone, mentioned in other reviews as included in The Cat Who Walks through Walls, is also found (as a very young girl) in The Moon Is A Harsh Mistress.This book was originally published under the title Space Family Stone.David Gerrold, author of The Trouble with Tribbles, has admitted that he got the idea (unconsciously--he didn't realize it until later) for the Tribbles from the Martian flat cats in this book.
It has all the classic elements of a good RAH juvenile novel: Does not talk down to youths, good family values, strong male and female roles... I just didn't get into it as much as some of the others; some of the characters were a bit annoying - that's family I guess- yet overall it was a fine novel.
A delightfully fun book about a pair of brilliant and mouthy teenagers and their space-traveling family. Lots of adventures, with a bit of Heinlein-esque education thrown in here and there. A look forward to space travel of about our time, from the great "depths" of the 1950s. I've read it over and over, most recently in 2008.
Classic Heinlein science fiction adventure for young adult readers.
Heinlein's romp around the solar system with the Stone family is a fun read for a teen. Even for an adult it makes a great re-read to recapture that sense of anything being possible.
Pretty much the foundation for everything that came afterward in Heinlein's universe. A half century later, still mostly right on the mark.
Fun and Easy Classic Sci-fi Read - A Gem
This is one of Heinlein's best titles.
He himself realized Hazel, the grandmother, was an excellent character and used her again in other stories.
The twins, who are the main characters are well developed as well.
Heinlein also created one of his best alien animals in this book: flat cats.
After Mars they decide to take a look at Ceres where Hazel has a climatic adventure.
Heinlein was pretty vocal about how his books were censored in the 1950s.
Highly recommended.My paperback edition is this publisher and cover, but a 1952 pub date.
This solid book of space travel is a great example of why Robert Heinlein is still a major name in Science Fiction.According to Genreflecting, The Rolling Stones is primarily a Space Travel Science Fiction novel (223-4), as the story is centered on the Stone family’s trip through the solar system.
Heinlein’s solid foundation in real science will also keep readers especially interested in science more than intrigued.The only problem I had with The Rolling Stones was the lack of character development.
The whole family is joining them from Mars, to the asteroids.The Rolling Stones is admittedly a strange choice for someone's second Heinlein book (my first was The Moon is a Harsh Mistress).
Fortunately, once everyone gets into space, I found myself liking the book more and more.The Rolling Stones is a comedy/adventure story filled with a large cast of quirky characters (making it perfect for the audiobook format).
Heinlein's earlier stories were written long before actual space travel became possible - when we started to actually put people in space his stories treated space travel with techno babble, handwavium, and unobtainium.The Rolling Stones was written before 1960, and Heinlein speculates a bit about space travel.
But if you're OK with treating that part of the story the same as the roar of space ships on Star Wars, or the zap of phasers on Star Trek, then the rest of the tale holds up.
(I know, David Gerrold wrote the Star Trek story, a few years later.)I enjoyed this story well enough to read it to my kids, years later.
While rightly classified as one of Heinlein's juveniles, this book has a lot more sophistication than his older "Boy Scouts in Space" style tales.
Unlike most of the juveniles, Heinlein spends plenty of time on all the members of the family, not just the young protagonists, and the relationship between all of them -- where they conflict, where they complement, and where they demonstrate their love for one another -- all gel very nicely, amidst a tramp abroad through the solar system.
Tough and wise Grandma Hazel, Captain and Doctor Stone, daughter Meade, irascible twins Castor and Pollux, and baby Lowell have all kinds of interesting adventures in space.
Taking place a few decades after the revolt of Luna in “The Moon is a Harsh Mistress”, we are able to infer how the Free State has matured, and also become a place where pioneering souls are anxious to strike out from.
Except for Meade, who doesn’t have much of a storyline, the family is full of interesting characters with strong personalities.
Also, I really really want a Martian ‘Flat Cat.’ (I recommend you read “The Moon is a Harsh Mistress” prior to this.)
It doesn’t seem likely for twins to have the same middle name.
Even so, it’s clear that Castor and Pollux Stone both have "Trouble" written in that spot on their birth certificates.
Of course, anyone who’s met their grandmother Hazel would know that they came by it honestly… Join the Stone twins as they connive, cajole, and bamboozle their way across the Solar System in the company of the most high-spirited and hilarious family in all of science fiction.
Oddly enough, it’s also a true example of real family values–for when you’re a Stone, your family is your highest priority.
This story gathers no moss.The Rolling Stones moves along at a good clip. Castor and Pollux are two smart, scheming youngsters who got rich from their invention of a better spacesuit breather valve. They and their family buy their own rocket ship, leaving Luna City for Mars and points beyond. The situations they get themselves into (including one that was the inspiration for the beloved Star Trek episode The Trouble with Tribbles) are non-stop, but by keeping their wits about them, they usually manage to pull through. One of RAH's best.
One of Heinlein's juveniles. A rollicking romp from the moon and beyond with the eccentric Stone family, mom, dad the twins and grandma.Various adventures and encounters come their way. This is a juvenile so very light, quick read, and a bit dated from 1952. I have enjoyed some of his other juveniles better.
