https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/376466.To_Be_a_Pilgrim
(view spoiler)[Bettie's BooksThe rating, any status updates, and those bookshelves, indicate my feelings for this book. (hide spoiler)]
Joyce Cary's stuffy old tradition-bound bachelor Tom Wilcher paints some of the richest fullest portraits of family ever produced in literature. Gorgeous prose.
I was reluctantly sucked into this morbid and disturbed portrayal of a bewildered and ungenerous old man wondering why and how he had lived his life.
The very British protagonist is a very disturbed senile old man, sometimes lost in visions of his past, other times paranoid, other times assessing the remaining members of his family from a jaded, jealous, and only occasionally fond point of view.
Although age and health contribute to his erratic behavior and general bewilderment, he seems to tell us that he lived his entire life almost the same way: out of control and with very little understanding of himself or those closest to him.
I read the first book of this trilogy last year, and put off the second, parly because I was not fond of Tom Wilcher as seen through Sara's eyes.
The present and past intermingle and echo each other, as Tom reconstucts the life he has lived and continues to ponder arguments and problems he has never resolved.He sees his faults, but he cannot let go of them.
He sees death "rise into the sky, more illuminating than the brightest sun, colder than the arctic moon; and all the landscape is suddenly altered." And he is strangely more ready for death than the living seem to be for life.
2nd novel in Joyce Cary's trilogy that begins with "Herself Surprised" and ends with "The Horse's Mouth." All three are first-rate, but "To Be a Pilgrim" is my favorite. It's also the only story I've ever read in which the protagonist is a dirty old may who can't help exposing himself, a nasty habit and frowned upon in polite society.
the saga continues using a different character as the protagonist for a different point of view and to fill in some of the blanks left by the first book. I like the way the author moves from the current to the past. on to book #3
I have read this but I ought to reread it since ALL that I remember is I liked it a lot. Why I do not remember.
Second book in Cary's First Trilogy and my least favorite. I just found the central character an insufferable prig, though I admired Cary's portrayal of him.
For me this is the weakest of the trilogy, but mostly because the main character is so hard to like. It does still have moments of literary genius though and some parts are very touching.
A fascinating book, telling the story of a character from Herself Surprised.
4 1/2 stars
