https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9500416-dreams-of-joy
Only if Joy was a little tolerant to her mother’s woes or more educated on Mao’s New China, life could have had been less turbulent and death would not lurk on her doorstep.Shanghai Girls (the prequel to this novel) ends on a somewhat bitter note with Joy finding out the truth about her parental lineage and Pearl’s husband committing suicide with its guilt embedded deep down in Joy’s heart.
Life in Los Angeles’ Chinatown was even more confusing and undesirable , when Joy finds out that Pearl is not her biological mother and her father may be residing in China in all its likelihood.
I was unaware when I started this book that it was part of a well-known series involving Pearl and Mae, two of the story's main characters.
Believing, as only a college student can, all she hears about the 'new' China, and juxtaposing that against her disillusionment with her life, she runs off to participate in Mao's "Great Leap Forward", with profound consequences for all.Joy is as annoying as any know-it-all college kid, but also as lovable and sympathetic.
The story of Joy's marriage and village life are so deeply disturbing that I had to stop reading, having forgotten the utter desperation and extreme poverty caused by the Great Leap forward and the famine.
The Flower Net, Shanghai Girls, Peony in Love, and Snow Flower and the Secret Fan. I love her writing, her carefully researched hstory, her political commitment, and deft creation of characters, her portrayal of relationships, especially family ones.So I was thrilled to win her soon-to-be-published new work, book:Dreams of Joy: A Novel|9500416] from the goodreads giveaway.But I was also a little nervous.
Dreams of Joy is Lisa See’s sequel to Shanghai Girls, but that isn’t really what it is...it is really the completion of what was, for me, an incomplete story.
That is how I feel about what Dreams of Joy is to Shanghai Girls.This was a powerful novel with an in-depth look at life inside Communist China in the early days of Mao. It is also a serious examination of love: love of country, love of family, love of a mother, love of a lover, and what it is to sacrifice for each of those loves.
I was vaguely disappointed at the end of Shanghai Girls, but that was completely erased upon reading Dreams of Joy. I will now feel good about reading Lisa See’s other books.
This is one of my favorite books of all time!
Its the powerful and satisfying conclusion to "Shanghai Girls."Exquisitely written down to the last vivid detail in this amazing journey across 1950s China and into the heart of what it means to be a family.
If you were awestruck by Lisa See's "Shanghai Girls," prepare yourself for an even finer novel with "Dreams of Joy" completing the tapestry with compelling and mesmerizing redemptive power.
My highest recommendation: at least 5 stars throughout!
The audio rendition was fabulous.(I agree with the reader who said she would give it 10 stars if it were possible.)
Spoiler for Shanghai Girls, but Joy runs away to China which is the stupidest thing she could do since it's when Mao took over.Pearl goes out of her way to find her and bring her home.The only problem with this book is perhaps things resolve a bit too neatly.
The best thing about this book is learning what China was like under Mao for peasants and city folk alike.It was no dinner party, that's for sure.
This book is good, but the only problem with it is things wrap up a bit too neatly, but considering how much misery Joy, May and Pearl endured maybe they deserved a nice happy ending?
I enjoyed the story -- once I just decided to suck it up and suspend -- and the description of the famine that resulted from the Great Leap Forward was heartbreaking, but overall I just couldn't get past how ridiculously improbably the entire scenario was.
The most interesting characters in the book are the villagers, they're the ones with a real story to tell, not the spoiled 19 year old who thinks it'll be fun to play at revolution for a few years and has the inevitable rude awakening.
The themes leaped out at me -- mother-daughter, sister-sister, and overall family relationships tie this whole story together in the deepest of ways, and more than once I teared up while listening; I recently made a pretty big mistake that hurt my parents and my sister, and this turned into such a perfect read when I was searching for a way to mend things, as I listened to Joy and Pearl come back together.While Shanghai Girls saw Pearl and May growing up and living their lives through the late 30s and into the 50s, Dreams of Joy follows Joy back into what is now Mao's Red China in the late 50s.
In this book, Pearl and her daughter, Joy are the narrators.
Here, you read more about the Chinese "Great Leap Forward." While not as plot-driven and laced with conflict as Shanghai Girls was, this book is a fictional look into post-conflict China.
I wouldn't recommend you do that though because the first book in this series adds more depth to the story.**3.5 stars because I meandered between a 3 and 4 for this one**
She soon learns that it is not all as romantic as she had thought, however, as she reunites with her birth-father ZG and travels with him to a commune to try to teach peasants how to paint.
May is only a peripheral character until the very end; you get the feeling See doesn’t quite know what to do with her, so just has her back in LA writing letters and sending $ over to Pearl and Joy. Eventually, they all escape communist China and meet up with May in Hong Kong.
I'm thrilled that there is a sequel to Shanghai Girls!
This looks good; I can't wait to read it.
Just can't decide if I should buy the book or read on my Kindle!
If you have not read Shanghai Girls yet..
go get yourself a copy.This book was so good; I'm a little bummed out that I've finished reading it.
It's really about relationships within a family, and life in communist China during the 'Great Leap Forward'.
Lisa See has obviously done a lot of detailed research and really brings to life what it was to live under those brutal conditions.
The woman she thought was her mother was her aunt.
Her aunt is actually her mother, and the man she loved as her father turns out not to have been her father at all and now he’s dead.
Her “biological” father is an artist from Shanghai whom both her mother and aunt have loved since before Joy was born.
His name is Li Zhi-ge or Z.G. Li Zhi-ge used to paint Joy’s mother and aunt when they were models back in Shanghai.At 2 o’clock in the morning, Joy decides to leave their Los Angeles, California home and go to China.
Not a great leap forward.Then, it got more interesting: they arrive in 1950's China and serve as sort of tour guides through the various parts of Chinese society.
By the end of the book (an almost Indiana Jones sort of feel...NOT a spoiler), I was riveted by their very different stories, and HAD to know what happened to these characters who, initially, seemed so flat and lifeless.How did she do that?
Here I was, distracted by China's Great Leap Forward while these characters grew into real people that I cared about.
I just do not want to give too much away.Joy is the daughter of May, but has been brought up by Pearl.
When she finds out that the two sisters have been lying to her about who is her mother and who is her father, she leaves LA to become a Chinese socialist in Mao Zedong's Peoples Republic of China (PRC) and find her birth father.She DOES find her birth father, Z.G. Li and visits the countryside.
In the meantime, Mother Pearl has returned to Shanghai to attempt to convince her idealist daughter to return to the United States.This was a serious story, using the failures of the PRC as a backdrop to a beautiful story of a mother's love.4 solid stars.
I was expecting the search for Z.G. to be the bulk of the book, but that’s taken care of within the beginning, and the story instead moves on to highlighting communist China.
Throughout the book, Pearl thinks back to the devastating moments in her life - they are never washed away.
With a good suspension of disbelief, however, Dreams of Joy can be moving and comes with plenty of moments of surprise - a good completion to the story of the two beautiful girls who fled the city they loved and did what they could to survive.
Dreams of Joy is a mother-daughter story, a story of idealism meeting reality, and the strength of familial bonds.Joy flees to China when faced with a revelatory truth.
All is not well in 1957 China, and the great leaps, Sputniks and other idealistic plans fall far short of their intended goal.As Joy learns what it is to be a peasant, a worker, and a daughter-in-law, she also learns about the strength and solidity of her American life, and the many gifts her family gave her.
In the first book, two young women, sisters, leave China fleeing wartime atrocities perpetrated by the invading Japanese and family tragedy to make a home in 1930’s California.
Twenty years later, one of their daughters, runs away from a family tragedy of her own back to China where she is convinced the Communist Revolution is building a more just world for all humanity.
It is 1957, the start of the Great Leap Forward, so the reader knows that any naive idealism about the Revolution will soon be dispelled.
See creates complex family relationships in her novels, portraying relationships that can deeply wound because they are so deeply loved.
Digital audiobook performed by Janet Song.This is the sequel to Shanghai Girls and any synopsis, no matter how brief, will include a spoiler for anyone who hasn’t read the first book.
So, I’m going to dispense with that, other than to say that this book really focuses on China and the results of the cultural revolution.The novel gives the reader an horrific look at the Great Leap Forward and the devastating results of grandiose ideas imposed with little practical thought.
I’ve listened to other books set in China, narrated by Song, and she’s equally wonderful reading them all.
I enjoyed this book more than Shanghai Girls. I'm sure there will be another to come out based on the characters.
Very well written and took many twists that I was not expecting. I learned a lot about Communist China that I found interesting and want to learn more.
That said, I knew that this book revolved about Pearl and Joy and I just didn’t love either of them in the first book and because of this, I wasn’t in any rush to start this one.
It starts where Shanghai Girls ends.
But the fierce love of a mother for her daughter has her following Joy despite the danger.
From start to finish, my heart was in my throat.
I went in to the book with lukewarm feelings towards them but I came to love them very quickly.
I was particularly excited to read Dreams of Joy, as it’s the sequel to Shanghai Girls and I’ve been at the edge of my seat since I finished that book in 2009.
Meanwhile, Pearl’s actions to protect and save her daughter- and yes, while Pearl did not give birth to Joy the story makes it clear that Joy is still her daughter- are heroic, and there is a time toward the end where “the Dragon” rises to protect her family that is both heart-stopping in its intensity and beautiful in its emotion.
Dreams of Joy was much more intense than Shanghai Girls.
It's a family saga that spans about 25 years between the two stories; it begins in Shanghai moves to LA then returns to China.The first part in mostly the story of two sisters, Pearl and May, told by Pearl.
The men in my life—my father, Z.G., my husband, my father-in-law, my brother-in-law, and my son—faced, to one degree or another, those great male battles, but their hearts—so fragile—wilted, buckled, crippled, corrupted, broke, or shattered when confronted with the losses women face every day...Our men try to act strong, but it is May, Yen-yen, Joy, and I who must steady them and help them bear their pain, anguish, and shame.”― Lisa See, Shanghai Girls
I have read all her work and she never disappoints.
I have never been so vividly transported to China before reading her most recent work, "Dreams of Joy".
Dreams of Joy tells the story of Joy, a Chinese-American at the the time of the inception of Mao's Great Leap Forward.
A heartbreaking tragedy and a family secret come to light sends Joy on a journey to China to find herself and her biological father.
Joy is idealistic and passionate about helping China's "Great Leap Forward".
Shanghai Girls is the prequel to Dreams of Joy and another wonderful novel that is now being made into a movie.
If you want to read/understand about China without it being 'helped' (all pun intended towards "The Help") along by strange, stilted "orientalist" notions of how it used to be in the old times, this would NOT be the book/series to read.As an articulate asian (from Singapore), it pains me to read such trash passing off as historic fiction/filtered through what are very much western eyes (doesn't matter if the writer knows Amy Tan or has See as a surname) and targeted to what are clearly western notions of how people behaved in China.
This novel just brings back horrible memories of watching Pearl S Buck's "The Good Earth" acted by actors forced to be asian when clearly they're not.Likewise, this novel is written in such a crude/sing-song fashion as to mock the very people it is trying to depict.
I know there was a bigger point here, but I kept thinking "What a dumbass girl..."
Now, in her most powerful novel yet, she returns to these timeless themes, continuing the story of sisters Pearl and May from Shanghai Girls, and Pearl’s strong-willed nineteen-year-old daughter, Joy.Reeling from newly uncovered family secrets, and anger at her mother and aunt for keeping them from her, Joy runs away to Shanghai in early 1957 to find her birth father—the artist Z.G. Li, with whom both May and Pearl were once in love.
To my amazement and delight Ms. See continues the story in Dreams of Joy, a riveting follow up you don't want to miss.Dreams of Joy, aside from a few pages in the first chapter, takes place in The People's Republic of China, a fascinating country in flux at the time.
I didn't like this book very much at all. Mainly this was due to two issues: this was picked by my book club before I had read the book preceeding this one (Shanghai Girls  ) and I really did not identify with the main main character, Joy, at all. (Her mother, the secondary main character, was much more sympathetic to me). Let me explain: So this book starts out right after a huge family altercation where Joy (19 years old, of Chinese heritage, but born and raised in the U.S.) finds out that her
Let me explain: So this book starts out right after a huge family altercation where Joy (19 years old, of Chinese heritage, but born and raised in the U.S.) finds out that her mother is actually her aunt, and her aunt her birth mother and her father no relation at all and her birth father is an artist from Shanghai.
Joy falls in love with a boy from the village (view spoiler)[and believes that it's the coolest thing ever to marry him, live in his dirt-poor 2-room 10-family members shack (where her mother-in-law rules, and all mother-in-laws have been brought up to hair the daughters that their sons marry).
“I remember the story Tao told me about the water buffalo and why it wore blinders. He said the animal’s suffering in this life was punishment for things it had done in a past life. Now I think of a different reason. To make an ox or water buffalo work so hard, it needs to be blinded and uninformed. That’s what the government is doing to the masses now. Why? Because peasants are China’s true beasts of burden. Still, no one blames Chairman Mao.”    Dreams of Joy  by Lisa See is a powerful book,
This novel explores the brutal reality of the era with courage and intimacy via deeply complex characters and unbelievably captivating prose.** Dreams of Joy is the sequel novel to Shanghai Girls.
I highly recommend reading that novel first as there are lots of spoilers and a myriad number of references to events and occurrences from Shanghai Girls that pop up throughout this book.
Completely closed-minded to the reality of what Communism does to the people of China, especially the poor and peasantry, Joy comprehends later on in very painful ways the harsh truth of the country’s inherent state of brutality.
However, with Ms. See at the helm, the journey you make with Pearl back into Red China is unforgettable, literally.Very strongly recommend the reading of Shanghai Girls first, to get the most out of this work.
Pearls sister May gave birth to Joy and gave the child to Pearl to raise, a secret they both kept from everyone.
old young/modern woman) has learned about her paternity and naively, sets out to find her bio-father, never fully realizing what she was walking into in Red China.
