https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/412964.Brave_the_Wild_Wind
[image error]GIFSoup"Fuck you, and fuck your smash claw machine!"After getting punched and slapped a few times, Chase decides that he can't live without having sex with Jessie.
For some reason, Jessie goes catatonic after that, so Chase decides there's no time like the present to take off for effing SPAIN to search for the guy he thinks is his birth father.
Jessie walked in on the scene and decided that this man with no attachments to any woman, let alone HER was a philandering bastard who would definitely fall into the nearest vagina the minute he gets some time alone.
Jessie's father beats her mother Rachel within an inch of her life, because he sees a black-haired women in bed with another man, and thinks it's his wife, who is cheating on him.
Chase Summers is the first man that comes along that makes Jessica want to feel like a woman, which isn't exactly ideal for her.
Marriage is the only option, and Chase has determined that his mission is to teach Jessie that being a woman is a beautiful thing.This is one of those books where you get to see an immature character grow up and develop her sense of integrity and purpose.
Quite enjoyed it! Sorry, I'm on holidays and don't feel like writing reviews.
Kindle Sale! All 3 books in this trilogy are just $0.99 each!Not sure how long it will last.Also, most, if not all, of Johanna Lindsey's HR are on sale for the same $0.99. For some reason, when I went to her author page, the sale price doesn't show, but if you follow this link then scroll down to see the sale price.Amazon: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005...
Jessie is our brave yet childish 18 year old heroine, raised by a hateful father as a boy and with venom for her mother, and she lives amongst men and runs her ranch since her father dies.When her mother comes for visit, she brings along Chase- who ends up initially annoying the h, and later attracting her.There's a lot of things happening in the story.
It was a bit silly how all males kept falling for the heroine, but it made for an engaging read.Safe with exceptions (view spoiler)[ h forcibly kissed twice by 2 different men, and the first time they meet she's voluntarily kissing om.
She was like our current day angsty teenager, except somehow she ended up believing her delusional, anger-management reject father about how he caught her mother cheating and that she left Jesse behind for another man.
Luckily, she grows up by the end of the book, or actually when she gets pregnant.
Plus, because of her, he gets to run into various hunky dangerous Indians.It took a while (the end of the book) for Jessie to finally listen to her mother for her side of the story, but after that happened, everything just worked like a charm.
Anything Johanna Lindsey writes will always be a comfort read and 5 stars. I have lived her books since I was 14. They always have such feisty characters and the tension between them are so powerful, you can't help but keep reading. These books aren't for everybody, but they will always be for me!
I adored it--I mean Jessie, in an almost see through chemise and Chase(who is NUDE, by the way) making out on the beach, What more could i ask for??The HeroineAt the beginning of the book, Jessie Blair's Father is givng a brutal beating his wife for cheating on him, something she didnt do, but manages to survive-with the baby she is carrying still alive.(this event leaves everyone with scars-and not visable ones.) Jessie, whom is already alive and well, is lefted with her father-who denys her of her femininity-thus giving her boy clothes and teaching her to hate her mother-- so she is quite peeved when her mother comes home to be her gurdian since her father passed.Jessie in many cases is quite imature and has a real agusty teenager feel.In Jessie's Mind she is a man-and resents that in fact she isnt-she dosent see why she can't have lovers like men do(view spoiler)[she says this to Chase after making love,losing her virtue.
Un buen romance. Me gusto toda la inclusión de los indios americanos aunque me hubiese gustado que se incluyeran mas ya que llegado un puño, desaparecen por completo y tan de repente. Me agrado Chase y me gusto mucho la personalidad y carácter de Jessie, uno de los pocos personajes femeninos que realmente me agradaron. El libro se lee súper rápido. En una tarde me lo leí. Es ligero y encantador, perfecto para pasar un buen rato. Lo único que no me gustó es que Thomas nunca se haya enterado de la verdad.
K. Jesse Blair aka Jessie was supposed to be a boy but she wasn't.
Her father's death brought her mother back in her life and along with her, Chase Summers.
(Her mother was beaten and kicked out for allegedly cheating on her husband.) I actually read this many years ago around the time it was first published.
I liked it then and I liked it this time around.
I did think Jessie was a bit on the pig-headed and stubborn side and Chase wouldn't win any best heroes awards with a few of his actions and words but it was a good read.
So when his dearest friend asks Chase to marry her daughter he flat out refuses.Yet there's something about the girl that draws him to her.Jessie is furious about her mother's plans and she does everything she can to buck the system, until she realizes she's been laboring under a misunderstanding all her life and that the love and acceptance she's always longed for, was there all along.As I said this one goes eschew for me at the very beginning because it sets up a very obvious big misunderstanding plot that makes you want to scream at Jessica's ignorant father.

Pasable :D Pero la autora me gusta
3,5 **
The good news is that now that sick in the head daddy is deceased, Jessie can drag out the frilly dresses she's bought and act like the girly girl she's always wanted to be.
Except, and you knew that was coming, in his will daddy dearest stipulated that the long absent whoring wife return to his ranch and act as guardian to Jessie until she turns 20.
Why the whoring mother thought a 26 year old gambler could provide parenting advice was beyond me.The taking of Jessie's innocence by the ne'er-do-well stepson, Chase Summers.
These books...everybody loves a Lindsey
meh...
I've found a new favourite author! Johanna Lindsey's style is incredible, her writing smooth and her characters, dynamic. The book isn't perfect but her writing is!
But let's be honest here, Johanna Lindsey books are easy to forget.Jessie is an angry woman.
No, Jessie is an angry child who is constantly throwing tantrums.
Chase, the hero of the story, was just m'eh for me.
These two had absolutely no chemistry and no reason to be together.
On top of no chemistry there was also nothing much going on.
Jessica visits with some Indians.
Jessica makes up with her estranged mother.
Then the story moves to Spain as Chase is searching for his biological father.
Brave the Wild WindAwe! When I get tired of reading and can't possibly concentrate on the last sentence, I usually re-read one of my favorite writers. Johanna Lindsey is one of the best. Chase and Jessie both suffered through their childhood. Only the fact that her Mother brought Chase to the ranch forced them into facing what each needed. Jessie was taught to hate her Mother and Chase was left to a stepfather that wanted to rule him. Escaping into each other's arms was their only way out. Passion was only a touch away for them.
Johanna Lindsey is one of my top 5 favorite authors, I love reading her books but this book I did not enjoy. The heroine was annoying as hell spoilt always angry, she was just a whirlwind. I hate you, I love you would be a fitting tittle they argued every minute about the most minute of things. I think overall it could be written much better. I hope all the books in the series is not like this one.
I can't rate this book any higher. There were characters that seemed important to the story and then they just completely disappeared. No mention of them again even though they were important people to the main character. The main problem was resolved in a very anti-climactic way. The problem was there then it was just gone not resolved. Then the last 20 percent of the book was unnecessary drama that could have easily not have been included if not just to add more pages to the book.
I found Chase to be a particularly unappealing love interest. I haven't quite finished it at this point so perhaps I'm being unfair but as it stands, I'm not sure I will finish it at all. I've read several of Johanna Lindsey's romances by now and I'm beginning to think I just don't like her brand of hero.
The romance was decent, but the plot moved slowly. It had so many issues: her mother, her father, his father, someone else trying to steal her ranch, killing the cattle, etc. None of them were fully developed to the point of creating a cohesive storyline. Still, on her worst day, Johanna Lindsey is still good.
A good book. A female lead who's a little high strung, but its to be expected with a father who was mean and bitter and no mother (husband nearly killed her because he thought she had been with another man and threw her out). People with lots of issues in this story.
Leído en Marzo 2015Me gustó!! Los protagonistas estuvieron geniales...
Review Pending!
I enjoyed these characters and read this book in one day. Chase and Jessie's love story.
Possibly the worst romance novel I've ever finished.
Warning if you start to read this book, you won't able to put it down until you finish it.
