https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2370057.Inspector_French_s_Greatest_Case
The edition I read, from Collins Crime Club, has an enjoyable introduction added by the author in 1935, where he explains how he decided to make his hero "humdrum" and even interviews French during the article.
Crofts mentions jokingly that he thinks he said French and his wife Emily had children in one book and then that they didn't in another, so he now steers clear of the subject as he can't find either reference.
After reading this in the introduction, I was surprised to find a moving reference to French being a father in this first book.
In ' French's Greatest Case' we are introduced to a case of murder that occurs at the offices of Duke and Peabody, a diamond merchant located at Hatton Garden in London.
On a cold night in the middle of November, the body of an employee, by the name of Mr. Charles Gething is discovered prostrate on the floor in the inner office of Mr. Duke.
Mr. Duke's large Milner safe has been ransacked with the loss of thirty-three thousand pounds worth of diamonds and a thousand pounds in bank notes.
First published in 1924, this is considered one of the classics of the Golden Age of British crime fiction. The case develops step by step throughout the novel as the Inspector steadfastly follows up on leads, inching ever closer to apprehending the culprits. Very well plotted and evenly paced. Recommended for fans of British crime fiction who like puzzles and do not need chase scenes, graphic violence, or deep character development.
I like Crofts' detective novels although even I find them a little wordy.Inspector French is a great character and this is a classic of dogged police work taking him to many European countries. I did work out the culprit but not too soon! Some will find the explanation a bit ponderous but, all in all this is a good classic crime story dating from 1924.
If this was Inspector French's Greatest Case, then it's no wonder that his books are virtually forgotten today.A man goes to work at a jewelry shop only to find the dead body of a senior clerk and an empty safe.
And when I got it back, I finished more because I wanted to get it over with than because I really cared how it ended.It ended with a big climax aboard another ocean-going ship, complete route included (just in case you wanted to book passage) and Inspector French being surprised by the identity of the murderer.This was a classic example of "tell, don't show." Not recommended for anyone.
The storyline as ever is well thought out and clever - but as normal with Crofts he just writes too many words making the story a bit of a rigmarole which tweezes and thins out the story too much - this is probably why his novels haven't been so widely read after his death.
In regards to enjoyment level - the first two thirds of the book are very enjoyable - however Crofts doesn't seem to know when enough is enough and so far from the novels I have read he often relies on coincidences - this time however there was only one (A detective working on the case shows his girlfriend a photo of someone he is trying to find and she knows who it is!).
This is Inspector French’s debut mystery story, written in 1925 or so.
French investigates a robbery and murder of a diamond merchant in London’s Hatton Garden.
His investigation takes him all around London and also to Europe: Switzerland, Spain, France and Portugal.
The exciting capture of the villain takes place in Oporto, Portugal.
So in addition to the whodunit, there’s also the adventure of train and ship travel to entertain the reader.French is the narrator and star of the story.
Readers see the various suspects through French’s eyes and experiences.The plot is engaging – not overly complicated – and moves along at a good clip.
What a wonderful time I had reading this book. Having read a reprint of mystery in the channel I was used to the language and enjoyed the journey in this book the pace was different from the modern style, but was still gripping.I have fast become a fan and have already downloaded several of Freeman's books. If you can get past some of the language where people essay and ejaculate, amoung other things. Remembering the usage was very different. You should enjoy this if you like detective and police procedural books.
I discovered Inspector French when I was browsing the British Library classic crime series. I've read several of them now. I like most of them, although they are very dated (unsurprisingly) - in terms of police procedure and in terms of social attitudes. There's also only basic characterisation, which can get annoying sometimes. French is endearing nonetheless, and it is fun to find out who did it.
Very enjoyable mystery in the Agatha Christie style. Lots of twists & turns.
Wonderful. Better than Agatha Christie!
An excellent plot that shows the benefits of hard work and perseverance in total contrast to detectives like Holmes or Poirot.
Synopsis: French solves the discovery of the body of the head clerk found next to the open safe of a diamond merchant. Jewels are missing too.
But the case is far from cut and dry, as Inspector French of Scotland Yard's CID (Criminal Investigation Division) is about to discover.Originally published in 1924, Inspector French's Greatest Case is the first novel to feature the Inspector, who became a highly popular character during the Golden Age of Detective Fiction.
That French is portrayed as being such an ordinary, hard-working family man is, I suspect, part of his appeal and what made him so popular among readers of the day.Inspector French's Greatest Case is a wonderful introduction to a new detective and if you're a fan of classic detective fiction and don't mind your reads being slow-burners, I'd definitely recommend giving this series a chance.
If Inspector French is the best Scotland Yard can come up with then I understand the need for the amateur detective, give me Peter Wimsey anyday over the methodical and highly conservative Inspector.
The mystery is rather straight forward, a man is murdered and jewels are stolen but French dawdles about, discounts theories, and essentially allows himself to be led by the nose by false clues without taking any action himself.
That and the book really rankles me with its portrayal of women and the "lower classes."
French through his meticulous investigation of a murder and theft.
You really follow every lead with French and though you might find that this follow small details might be a bit boring, in actuality - it's not.
There are moments where I find French a bit too trusting or naive at times when it comes to talking about the case with people involved.
I figured out who the murderer was most specifically by the the time I was 3/4 through but knew that the person needed to be caught and evidence nailed down tight.
While this book is entitled 'Inspector French's Greatest Case', the credit should go to Mrs French whose perceptive remarks late on in the case give Inspector Joseph French a new lead and eventually this leads to the capture of the criminals.Those criminals had robbed a Hatton garden jeweller of diamonds and rubies and the manager of the shop, Duke & Peabody, is found dead on the scene.
but with little success.Then Mrs French pontificates and he sees the crime in a different light and, in an intriguing ending he unravels the mystery, which keeps the reader on the edge of his/her seat from first page to last.
Did I care who dunnit? only enough to flip to the end to see who it was, as how the extremely boring Inspector French got there I no longer cared. Also, unpersuaded that he would have been authorised to undertake the amount of continental jaunts necessary investigative travel that seemed to be required; also, too much in the way of disguises and false identities! (there also appeared to have been a faked death at some point.)
Crofts was at his height of popularity in the 1920s, along with Dashiell Hammett and Agatha Christie. This is his first Inspector French novel. A good book, notable for its attention to detail, and the dogged way in which French pursues his quarry. A bit drawn out, but still quite good.
This is truly a police procedural because the case is solved by shoe leather and following up each clue over period of weeks.
this book has the wonderful tone of an old fashioned Sherlock Holmes story. refreshing-good,clean gun.
A satisfying summer diversion. I enjoyed the measured pace and procedural detail of this 1920s English mystery. This is a classic that should not be forgotten.
This one was published in 1924 and I'm glad to say that Freeman Wills Crofts' later books are a lot better. This was tedious and I knew exactly what was going on from early on in the book.
A complex plot that makes a good read.
