https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2928577-the-shepherd-of-guadaloupe
There are suggestions that he served heroically in the war, but all we see of him for much of the book is a convalescing soldier suffering from physical wounds as well as what we now recognize as PTSD.The bad guys are the familiarly shallow, completely evil characters from earlier Grey books, but family dynamics add a layer of complexity that makes this one a more satisfying read.Even though the setting isn't the "Old West," the narrator lavishes the usual attention on the landscape.
Zane Grey is my all-time favorite Western author and "The Shepherd of Guadaloupe" is one of his best.
What sets Grey apart from most other Western writers is his spiritual connection with nature.
In Grey's books, man's ills are caused by his separation from nature.
It is only by returning to the land and embracing nature in all its glory and danger that man can reclaim his soul and find peace and purpose."The Shepherd of Guadaloupe" is not a traditional Western: the story begins in 1919 and there are no gunslingers, rustlers, Indians, or stagecoaches.
The family ranch was stolen when Clifton Forrest was off fighting in World War I. Despite his frail body, Forrest fights to regain his family home and live a peaceful life. First published in 1930.
This is my first Zane Grey and I loved it. I'll be reading more of his work. I love westerns and I love the southwest landscape. So happy the shepherd and his family won pit in the end!
Gelezen in het Nederlands. Leest gemakkelijk.
Very tough book to get through. However you feel like you are in New Mexico because of the very clear definition he gives to the landscape and the beauty of the area.
Maybe it's just that I'm crabby while reading this, but I didn't think it one of Grey's best. There are a few interesting characters in this book, but I'm afraid neither of the main characters caught my fancy. Also, usually I enjoy the role the Western mood and terrain, but it did not seem so powerful in this story either. Could it be I'm just prejudiced on the question of sheep versus cattle?
This is the first Zane Grey book I've ever picked up, and the plot really kept me up late reading. I did though find the dialogue to be far too melodramatic, and peppered with racial slurs. That plot was dynamite though.
Southwest
4  - 5 stars
4 ½ - 5 stars
another one i picked up on our beach vacation, this one was only $0.79!! i had no idea what it was about and still don't but it looked intriguing so i figured why not!!
I am not certain but I do think I have never given less than 4 stars to any of his books.
