https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260142.The_Principles_of_Quantum_Mechanics
I read Principles shortly after graduating from college.
I hadn't attended any of the courses on quantum mechanics, but a friend told me that if I read this book I'd understand what I'd missed.
Lee Smolin, in The Trouble with Physics, bemoans the fact that it's now almost impossible for young scientists to get funding to pursue speculative ideas of their own.
They usually have to work with other people's ideas until they are in their late 30s at least, by which time it's often too late.
When you look at Dirac's great book, you appreciate just how wrong that is.
In 1928, Dirac's application of the relativistic treatment of spin-1/2 particles leads to both positive- and negative-energy solutions to the electron.
255)In the last chapter, the author solves both a positive-energy and a negative-energy solution for an equation (now called the "Dirac equation") that applies relativistic solutions to the problem of particle physics, specifically, that of elementary spin-1/2 particles like the electron.
Dirac simply allows the mathematical result of a negative-energy solution to suggest that another particle actually exists in reality, every way equal to that of the electron, but opposite in sign.
قراءة اى شىء علمى مترجم مزعج جدااا!عشان كده سيبت نسختى المترجمة وجيبت النسخة الأصلية من الكتاب ^^ الكتاب علمى اضاف ليا معلومات ليست بالقليلة وفادنى انى درست بالفعل كوانتم 1 و2 ومن اسمه هو بيعرض مبادئ او اساسيات وغير كافى كاى كتاب اخر لعلم ميكانيكا الكم
Dirac was one of the most original thinkers of the last century and you really get a sense of that in this book. Probably one of the most abstract presentations of the subject, but to my mind at least, the most insightful.
أما بالنسبة لهذا .. فهو أحد الكتب المقدسةقراءته كفيلة بإشعال نجم وميلاد كوكب
Quantum mechanics from the mouth of one of the founders. Everything about his approach I found odd, yet novel. Recommended as a supplement, not a primary text.
Dirac's view of Quantum Mechanics, very concise and to the point. Not a lot of giberish.
A very good book. The best I've read on quantum mechanics. A lot of plain explanation of what is happening behind the formulas. Recommend to improve understanding of physical principals behind quantum physics monstrous mathematics!
¿Que clase de biblia es esta?
Paul A M Dirac, the man, the myth, the legend, discusses Quantum Mechanics and its results from the first principles.
Starting with the idea of a state, Dirac goes on to mention Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors and Eigenstates, continuing the discussion with some very advanced mathematics.
However, it seems that this notion of mine was unfounded, the thing I really needed to worry about was the binding.In any case, this book was quite well done.
I would like to find a book that explains this sort of thing in a manner that I can understand.
Perhaps I shall reach out for that sort of thing.
Beautiful science. Elegant and perfect mathematical physics, in a lovely binding and typeface from OUP. Not a popular work. (You do need to know your physics and your mathematics!)Belongs on shelves with G H Hardy's mathematics texts and Chandrasekhar's physics work.
superb, thanks paul!
ي
The English background most people have in science makes it difficult to catch up with the information.
ert
One of the best book ever written about QA
