https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/669100.Greybeard
A quote from The Twinkling of an Eye, Brian Aldiss' autobiography:P D James, ordinarily a bestselling middle-class thriller writer, set The Children of Men in the future.
A bit like - actually quite a lot like - P D James’ 1992 novel Children of Men which was, curiously, set in the exact same near-future period (late 2020s).
I haven’t read it but Children of Men sounds like a better novel, even if it also sounds like a bit of a rip-off - okay, a LOT of a rip-off.
But the movie Children of Men is great stuff, so in this case I’d say watch that and forget both novels.
Was slighty revised by the author in 2012.My Review: First published in 1964, at the tail end of one of the scariest passages during the Cold War, this post-apocalyptic look at the resilience and the lack of same in the human spirit was involving and affecting.
I can see that causing the Accident with all too great a clarity of inner vision.On the low end of the recommend-to-others scale, and then only to those who like post-apocalyptic stories.
This is a story of one man's attempt to survive in a post apocalyptic world.Post apocalyptic stories seem to fall into one of two categories.
The nature of the catastrophe is this: An accident whilst nuclear testing in space has somehow raised the radiation level on earth to the extent that it has either sterilized everyone or only allowed horrifically deformed monstrosities to be born which were at first eugenically eradicated and then later fought over as it became apparent that in them lay humanity's only hope for the future.
Just out of scene, aspirational, but a character that they keep searching for and referring to.48 years before a test explosion in space leaves the whole world sterilized.
Algy and Martha were just children during the year of sterilization.
Even Douche itself is the vain hope that humanity needs to make sure there is some legacy, even if it's only information, to leave for the children that everybody hopes will come again if the radiation levels fall and somehow the sterility is reversed before they're all too old to even have children, let alone raise them.
This book's theme is very much similar to "The Children of Men" by P.
D. James or more correctly it is the other way round as this book was published before "The Children of Men".
I haven't read the latter though as there is a general consent out there that the movie for once was better than the book.
And having watched the fantastic movie starring brilliant and underrated Clive Owen, I have no plans to read the novel by P.
D. James.Now coming back to this book's review, I could only say that it started off pretty well but kind of dipped in the middle when it became over-preachy and philosophical.
The time is the early twenty-first century, and humankind is dying, the entire race rendered sterile by an atomic 'accident' in 1981.
Far from being a gloomy scenario, the theme of humankind’s sterile end provides a rich canvas for Aldiss's narrative: villages, forest, river, lakes and cities, swarming with life, human and animal.Greybeard decides that the time has come to leave Sparcot and Jim Mole's tyrannical regime, and takes advantage of a threatened stoat attack and the ensuing confusion to slip away down the river with his wife Martha and a few companions.
This book was similar to P.D Jame's novel "The Children of Men" only it was written in 1964. Though many of the conclusions were the same, the feeling of each was very different. I liked them both, though Aldiss's book had us flying in hover cars by now. Tell me, where are the hover cars?
Algernon Timberlane, Graybeard, was a child at the time and now, a man in his fifties, is among the earth's last generation.
Flashbacks recount the history of the last fifty years, the breakdown of governments, one last world war For a time Timberlane works for Childsweep, a worldwide effort to kidnap children in the least affected areas for repopulation experiments.
The novel ends with a slight hint of hope, but most remarkable is Graybeard's realization that he has lead a fuller life than he could have ever expected from whatever might have been the "normal" progression of humankind into the 21st century.Aldiss is an excellent storyteller.
My first disappointing read in the SF Masterworks series.
Through nuclear experimentation in the 1980s, all humans and most animals (except for a few little ones like stoats, which now maraud around in vicious herds devouring whole villages) are sterile, so by 2020 humanity has been ravaged by war and the only people left are those ages 50 and onwards, like Greybeard.
Greybeard and his wife Martha live in Oxford under martial law, then they leave for no real reason and settle in a small village for 11 years - again for no real reason.
And then they leave, for the same reason.
Well, they leave because of stoats, but mostly for no reason.
I gave up reading about halfway through.
Due to The Accident, in which nuclear weapons were exploded in space, the humans on earth have been rendered sterile.
There are no children being born and society has disintegrated into small tribes.
Greybeard.
whose real name is Algy, started off in the army and then documented the chaos that ensued.
This creates the opportunity for Aldiss to write a series of interlocking vignettes jumping backwards and forwards through history to document the way society crumbles when it appears to have no future.
He has a very vivid view of how society would rewrite itself.
Initially, I couldn’t properly engage with this, despite my admiration of Aldiss’s style. It felt remorselessly pessimistic and the characters just didn’t click with me. Then, exactly halfway through, I suddenly felt invested, and enjoyed the rest of it through to the end. GREYBEARD is frequently listed as one of the great sci-fi novels. Personally, I don’t count it even as Aldiss’s best. Maybe reading about the loss of children doesn’t resonate when you have two 2-year-olds running around!
Una novela que, sin llegar a la grandeza de sus obras mayores, cuenta con la esencia de lo que ha hecho grande a Brian Aldiss. El amor por los personajes, la decadencia de lo civilizatorio y el retorno de la Naturaleza a sus dominios tras la partida del Hombre, no más que un mero apunte en el tiempo.
Il Doomsday Clock, l'Orologio dell'Apocalisse, è stato inventato nel 1947 dagli scienziati della rivista Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists dell'Università di Chicago e consiste in un orologio metaforico che misura il pericolo di una ipotetica fine del mondo.
Barbagrigia e la moglie Martha, i protagonisti, coi loro cinquant'anni sono tra le persone più giovani che camminano sul nostro pianeta.L'inizio del libro è buono, la fine anche, con la parte centrale ho fatto un po' di fatica.

Algy Timberlane, now called Greybeard, is one of the youngest men in the world at the age of 56.
Within his lifetime, Greybeard lived through the Accident that sterilized most higher mammals, fought in the wars over the remaining children of earth.
There’s a lot of thought in Greybeard, not just about the lack of children but about aging and dying, and those themes of entropy work wonders when combined with the apocalypse.Full review found here.
This time however I found it very enjoyable!Basically the book is set in about the 2030s, 50 years after a nuclear accident when bombs were set off in space, causing a catastrophic disruption in the Van Allen belts that surround the Earth and protect us from solar radiation..
The 'accident' resulted in this radiation from the sun briefly reaching the Earth, rendering the human ace sterile.
At the time the book opens the human race is represented by the elderly, eeking out a living pottering around Oxford and London, looking for, and on guard against, others.
Good post-apocalyptic science fiction.
Published in the mid-60's and set in Britain around 2030 with visits back over the past 50 years.
A nuclear "accident" happened in 1981 causing sterilization of many species of higher animals including man.
Few children have been born and most of those have had terrible mutations.
The main character, Greybeard, has taken part in two hopeful human initiatives--trying to save the children and recording the current history of man for posterity (if there is any) or others.
Interesting characters including one who in a very Shakespearean way mistakes his words.
Gelezen in het Nederlands "In de nadagen"Een sf boek wat ik de moeite van het lezen waard vond.Geen ruimtewezens of wat dan ook...Het is een boek uit 1965 en heeft 227 pagina,s.In 1981 vindt er een kernontploffing plaats in de ruimte, de bevolking wordt ziek en er worden bijna geen kinderen meer geboren.Als ze al geboren worden dan hebben ze veel afwijkingen.In het boek volgen we het leven gen "Grijsbaard" (Algy) en zijn vrouw Martha.
incredibly boooooring!
(Obviously I was a child and didn’t realize I was developing an interest in such heady topics.) Now, I realize this is a long preface to my review of Greybeard, but I just want to give an idea on my views of the end of mankind and the literature related to it.Starting out, I want to say that this is my first excursion into the world of Brian Aldiss, so I will be reviewing this book, not as a work of Mr. Aldiss, but as a work independent.
(Maybe not.)Greybeard is the book P.D. James’s Children of Men should’ve been, and that’s all I’ll say about that.
This is my first Aldiss, to my remembrance!
I found the writing easy to follow, the scenarios are drawn so I can see them.
The characters well described.
The story here concerns creeping old age.
No children (well, not quite) are being born and we follow Greybeard through his adventures down the Thames but also through his reminiscences.
The story flashes back and to the present and fills in Greybeard and wife's back story.But all of this does not describe the effect on me.
Stop and ponder.
NO CHILDREN.
All inhabitants of the planet Earth are the last generation.
A slow apocalypse caused by childlessness due to nuclear testing in the 70s. That's the basic scenario for this odyssey through the ruins of dying Britain, with flashbacks to the world that passed away. Of course this plot has been worked over by many other hands since, but this 1964 version is still great. What a pity we never got to see the film version that B.S.Johnson was scripting in 1968.
The eponymous hero, Algy Timberlane, and his wife Martha flee the village they have sheltered in for several years on a quest to find something better.They wander through a chaotic world, encountering a host of eccentric characters including the 'physician' Dr Jingadangelow.
Many deny the end of the world, putting their faith in ludicrous superstitions.
But the overall mood is one of resignation.As can be guessed from this, Greybread's journey is more than physical.
It's a quest for meaning in an increasingly meaningless world.
Another thoroughly absorbing and wonderfully literate work by SF Master Brian Aldiss.
While dealing with an almost unbearably maudlin premise; our world made infertile by the ill-considered detonation of Atomic warheads in the earth's atmosphere; Aldiss writes so well, and with such sublime humanity, that one can't help but feel rather optimistic about the recuperative powers of man.
Each zesty, colorful vignette is beautifully realized by Aldiss, and one is quickly immersed in the wholly absorbing narrative of Greybeard, and his delightful wife Martha's stoic exodus through the myriad adventures they have along the Thames estuary, and the much hoped-for sanctuary of the sea.
Mr. Aldiss I salute you!
A disturbing evocation of a future in which the human race, following a series of nuclear tests gone awry, has been rendered universally barren.
Human society collapses in the absence of any hope of future generations and the survivors mostly sink into a kind of madness born of despair.
But at the end, it seems there is a glimmer of hope and humanity has actually been presented with a chance to reset "civilization" and break free of the corrupt systems of power and money that led to the ecocide in the first place.
This book has an interesting premise - because of a nuclear accident in the earth's atmosphere, radiation has rendered most men and women sterile.
The story, set many years after the accident follows a small band of men and women, now in their senior years, who are traveling down a river looking for other civilized settlements.
The story does wander a bit, it's a type of 'road-trip' novel filled with small vignettes of the characters' travels and fleshed out with some flashbacks detailing the aftermath of the radiation accident, but all in all, not a whole lot happens.
En el 2029, en el pueblo inglés de Sparcot, se han ido reuniendo diferentes grupos de supervivientes tras la guerra que cambió el mundo hace ya muchos años.
Desde entonces, los recién nacidos ya no se ven mientras que los hombres envejecen poco a poco.
Algernon Timberlane, más conocido como Barbagrís, lleva allí con su esposa desde hace once años, pero una serie de acontecimientos le hacen darse cuenta de que su tiempo en el lugar ha terminado, por lo que acompañado de su esposa y de algún otro habitante del pueblo emprenden viaje en un esquife por el río.
Pero Barbagrís no siempre vivió en Sparcot.
Unlike many post apocalyptic tales, this one is told from the perspective of one man and in one chapter his wife.
Together they face the end of humanity and this balanced perspective is different than the many similar books in this genre.
The other characters in the book are also well written and interesting.There are just 6 long chapters here, each one tale in the life.
Really enjoyed this style, and the tale kept coming back to me.I found myself thinking often of Earth Abides (read in 2012), primarily because of the aging narrator, though the outcome is similar also.
A post-apocalypic novel set in England and written in the early 60s. I'm always so happy to know that what these writers foresaw for our present time has, by no means, come to pass. In Greybeard, an 'accident' (nuclear war) has made the entire population sterile, except for a few random people who give birth to children with major deformities. The entire population is aging, with little hope for the survival of mankind. The title character, Greybeard, is actually about my age, but is considered a youngster in his day. All in all, a really good and interesting read.
A harrowing vision of a world terribly gone wrong. The sadness and melancholy pervading the narrative are palpable. This is not a novel where a lot goes on - it's filled with reminiscences and beautiful descriptions of nature, which, unlike the human race, beats on. Yes, "Greybeard" is filled with misanthropy and cynicism, but not to the brim. There is still some hope there, as feeble as it might be.
