https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/490170.The_Little_Drummer_Boy
Simple book. Pictures to go with the words of the song with the same title. The art is nice. Great for a 2-3 year old.
Ezra Jack Keats beautiful interpretation of this, my second-least-favorite Christmas song, caused me to reconsider the revulsion I usually feel towards the wee lad and his pa-rum-pa-rum-pums. Indeed, Mr. Keats achieved a remarkable artistic feat by taking something displeasing and making it lovely to my Scrooge-y heart. It's a Christmas miracle!!!!!!
Good illustrations. I read the text (minus the drum noises), as naturally as possible, then sing the whole thing at the end. I usually very much dislike the radio versions of the song, but this little book brings a different feeling about it. It may very well redeem the carol for me!___________I've actually had to read this a whole bunch of times this Christmas, but I'm only going to mark it once. 😋
Little Drummer Boy is a children's picture book of the Christmas carol original written by Katherine Kennicott Davis and illustrated by Ezra Jack Keats.
It is the lyrics of the Little Drummer Boy original known as Carol of the Drum.
Keats' illustrations are drawn extremely well, his classic and unique style of mixed media is conveyed the narrative rather well.The premise of the book is rather straightforward.
The narrative relates to a poor, young boy as he was summoned by the Magi to the Nativity of Christ and without any gifts for the infant, the little drummer boy played his drum for him.
Books taken from songs confuse me. Are you supposed to read them or sing them? Especially when then have an ever repeating theme, such as pa-rum-pum-pum-pum? Read that out loud just sounds silly to me. But what's your take?It seems to be really popular to take songs and make them into children's books as I've come across ever so many. I love Ezra Jack Keats's illustrations which is why I gave this a three. Once I figure out my dilemma, I might come back and give this a four star rating. ;)Ages: 3 - 7#christmas
A Scholastic presentation of the book, in video with the song. The stunning collage art is featured as the song is sung accompanied by a guitar, and of course, a drum. It is one of my favorite Christmas songs, it is a treat to have it with these images.
Gorgeous, vibrant, and evocative, from the despair of the giftless drummer boy to the joy of the ox and lamb keeping time.
Summary: The little drummer boyWhy I Read This: It was on the books to read to your kids before kindergarten list.Review: I liked it. The words are the song. And the illustrations are good.
My mommy thinks it's a pretty interesting gift for a newborn baby, to play the drums really loudly.
Simple artwork to set off the song (no extra story).
The Little Drummer Boy is another E.J> Keats classic. I loved it.
One of my favorite Christmas carols, lovingly illustrated by Ezra Jack Keats. Music included in the back.
Gorgeously illustrated version of the beloved Christmas carol one cannot help but to sing aloud.
The lyrics to the Little Drummer Boy with Keat's wonderful illustrations
Entrancing illustrations for the text of the song, The Little Drummer Boy.
His illustrations are gorgeous, as usual, but I don't like that baby Jesus is still in the manger when the wise men came two years after his birth. I know, it's nit-picking, but I can't help it.
Beautiful story with such a great message. Grab it to read aloud at Christmas with those you love.
Gorgeous illustrations to a beloved Christmas song. Love sharing this with children.
Your enjoyment of the book depends heavily on whether you like the Christmas carol in question.If you do, I think you're in for a treat.
Ezra Jack Keats' art is always lovely to look at, but his rendering of the Magis' visit to the Christ child is just stunning.
His Virgin Mary in particular is so beautiful that I would happily have a print of her framed on my wall.Having now read something of Keats' life in The Snowy Day and the Art of Ezra Jack Keats, I'm not surprised that he'd illustrate this particular Christmas carol.
Ezra Jack Keats, best known for the Caldecott Medal winning THE SNOWY DAY, captures the beautiful simplicity of "The Little Drummer Boy" in this Christmas find.
When things you love come together magic can be created.
Keats has long been a favorite author of mine and "The Little Drummer Boy" is high on my list of favorite carols.
They both capture things in a simple, yet extraordinary way.
The captivating "rum-pum-pum-pum"s are matched with Keats' gentle, warm illustrations.
As a bonus, we have one more book that we can sing together to add to our Christmas book list.
This is a small hard back picture book and ironically not one of the authors most well known.
However, that does not stop the book from being colorful and imaginative.
The book stays true to form of the traditional Christmas song.
Each page gives homage to a line from the song, which is posted in its entirety on the last two pages.The author/illustrator made each page come alive and yet also gives the feel of the original song through the character's emotions.
I love this author's books and it is too bad that he is not around anymore to create such wonderful works.
One of my girls favorite reads lately is Over in the Meadow where I sing it instead of reading it as we turn the pages. We found this one to be another from Ezra Jack Keats that has the same response. I have a feeling this will be requested much more before the year is out and possibly year round beyond the Christmas and nativity season. This was part of our Memoria Press Junior Kindergarten reading list and once again their list is fabulous!
GLE 2.9, Kprimary elementary Genre: Historical Fiction This story is about a group traveling to Bethleham in biblical times.
Each member of the group has a gift to give to Baby Jesus, a fine gift.
All except for the little drummer boy.
He is too poor to bring a gift, so instead he decides to play a song on his drum.
It is a magical song and ends up being the best gift of them all.
The story is cute, while it has some religious connotation it is not overly religious.
It is a good story about giving a present from the heart.
I remember having this book growing up that we would bring out at Christmas with the other Christmas books. It is the entire song of The Little Drummer Boy with Keats' great illustrations. In the back is the music for the song which my mom converted for my Tap a Tune piano (the old blue one with the full color coded octave) and I remember playing it on my first baby keyboard. It has always been one of my favorite Christmas songs, probably in part due to this book.
My son wants to learn to play the drum and, this Advent, has become fascinated with the Little Drummer Boy song. So when I saw that Ezra Jack Keats had made a picture book of the song, of course I checked it out. It was a hit. I've only been asked to read it once, but he has sat and looked through it over and over. The pictures are very familiar as being by Keats, and it's a pretty traditional adaptation of the song.
The Little Drummer Boy is a picture book to the song The Little Drummer Boy. The book has beautiful pictures to illustrate the song.Activities:-Discuss the vocabulary in the story-go over the characters in the story -learn to make shadows-practicing how to whistle-retell the story with flannel boards pieces or as a play-pick a class favorite song and turn it into a class book.
This is my 3 year old's favorite Christmas carol. I have to "sing" this book to him. These illustrations were soft and nice but not my favorite; I obviously don't have the best taste in art, I am far to picky and not cultured when it comes to artwork like this. A good depiction of the song overall.
I liked this book because it tells the words to Little Drummer Boy. The last page actually has the sheet music for the musical people out there. This is a charming story about the little drummer boy playing his drum loudly for baby Jesus. He feels sad in part of the story because he doesn't feel like his gift could compare to the three wise men.
I saw this book at the library last week (a few weeks too late to enjoy during Christmas). I've never really liked the song by the same name, but Keats's spare illustrations and beautiful style have finally endeared me to the familiar words. I'd like to own this one for the Christmas collection.
The text of this picture book comes word-for-word from the popular Christmas tune (complete with the insertion of "pa-rum-pum-pum-pum"), giving it a festive feel, though the illustrations feel dated and as if they were pulled from an illustrated hymnal, not from Ezra Jack Keats.
