https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3720975-handle-with-care
Typical Picoult plot and characters. The end really bothered me as it seemed unnecessary.
Either I just wasn't in the mood, or it read too much like My Sister's Keeper, or I spent the whole time anticipating the expected resolution...
Probably because she was the character I could most relate to, and I liked the fact that Picoult gave her more of a personality than some of the other family members in her other books.
Rather than really addressing the issue, it was just brushed aside.I expected this to be a much more heartrending book, but I never felt particularly involved in the wrongful death part.
This book was a mixed bag.I will agree with readers that say it reminded them very much of My Sister's Keeper.
While I did find this book quite gripping, I find that Picoult needs to be wary of being too formulaic.
Her twists and turns are becoming predictable; thus, when one happens it doesn't affect the reader in an emotional way.
Based on the ending alone, I'd give it a two.Picoult is one of very favorite authors but this is one book I am glad I got from the library, as I won't want or need to be reading it again.
And may I just say, the OI kids at the convention who were talking about riding their wheelchairs on an escalator, what the hell?!The mother just seemed to constantly whine instead of getting on with things and in particular seemed to resent anyone who had a normal life, even though she could have that with her daughters if she JUST STOPPED COMPLAINING and wasting her time on a legal case which is frankly ridiculous!
I am a big fan of Jodi Picoult but I couldn't wait to finish this book so I could read something enjoyable. I thought this book had no redeeming qualities. I didn't like the whole premise. How do you sue your best friend? It went down hill from there. I hated the ending.
The personal, ethical, moral and social issues contained in this book will keep bookclubs talking for weeks.The story, in a nutshell, is a mother of a precocious but severely disabled child decides, in order to get the cash necessary to keep up with her medical bills and special needs, to sue her obstetrician for "wrongful birth".
This means that she must swear under oath that she should have been given all the facts about her daughter's illness in time to have an abortion.
As you can see, the scenario is fraught with dramas and dilemmas even without side stories about her lawyer and her other daughter running throughout.
Ok, so I just finished Handle With Care by Jodi Picoult (due out April).This was the first Jodi Picoult book where I really struggled to finish it.
I found it very repetitive & much too similar to My Sister's Keeper - just a different disease.There were family problems, questions of morality, several characters having personal problems, it just seemed to be one big book of problems.
& very whiny one at that.It was written very well & I love the style in which Jodi Picoult writes, but this book honestly did nothing for me.
Then there were things that didn't really ring true to the characters (Sean not understanding why the law firm wouldn't take on his case, for one--hello, he's presented as quite level-headed and intelligent in the rest of the book.
But while I hated her, I had to admire her at the same time for her resilient strength and determination to follow through with what she believed was the only right thing to do.I did like the book for the same reasons I generally like Picoult's books: the thought-provoking subject and introduction to a new issue that one might not have really thought about before (in this case, I had--but it did make me re-evaluate my position several times); the variety of characters and different points of view; good research; and an easy, quick read.
She handles current topics in her books and makes them poignant and real and...
This book puts a whole new light on abortion; and, although I am sure it would never go as far as to alter a pro-choice voter's opinion (I doubt if anyone or anything could do that...
pretty hard in this day and age to convince someone to alter a stubborn opinion like that...), it served to firmly cement my pro-life stance.
I finished the book about half an hour ago and the tears are still fomenting and giving me double vision.
And now I can't wait to see what topic Picoult comes up with in her next book.
Double WOW.
I was really enjoying reading this latest from Picoult, especially since I hadn't enjoyed her last book. I was also interested in learning more about OI, since a local family was recently on Extreme Makeover: Home Edition and their son has OI. However, after all the drama and tension, the ending just fell flat to me. So I ended up being disappointed overall by the novel. Didn't have that sense of satisfaction I usually get after I finish something really good.
I am a long time fan of Jodi Picoult's work but have been disappointed with her last few efforts.
While the premise is interesting and the story is told in many voices, I was distracted by the form of the novel in which the characters speak to directly to Willow.
We all know what a debilitating illness does to the family, friendships and free time.
Charlotte's character is flawed and unsympathetic - I didn't care for her.
Midway through the book I didn't care enough to finish it and skipped to the end.
I did find this one to be easy to see coming.
I found this one easy to engage in.
I love how much research she does for her books.
While I understand the future full of possibilities she wanted for her daughter, I hated her throughout the whole process.
Or how it all came off to her own daughters who were way too young to understand the big picture, you know.
Alienating everyone you know and love to *maybe* get a payout just made me feel very uncomfortable.
Anyways, I didn't love nor hate the book.
Which was maybe the point but meh.
4,25 stars - English hard cover - I have dyslexia - In my old notebook I wrote down : this book hurted me physically Just by the story of Willow and the choices her mum made. 😭😭😭
Even if the parents don't request that they call the community hospital in NH or Children's in Boston, the FL hospital staff and police would certainly have thought to do so.
It's only after the father is arrested, the mother is detained, and the older daughter is moved into emergency foster care that the mother talks with her best friend and OB/GYN, who "somehow" gets the phone number of the specialist and calls him.
Picoult even implies through the thoughts of the father that the OB/GYN and best friend "has the nerve" to use her connections to "cold-call" the specialist at 3:00 a.m. Yikes!
Not bad but was not happy with the ending or many of the other parts of this book.
I can understand both sides in this book but honestly to me her actions did nothing to better the life of her child which was her goal; especially once the book ends.
Sorry but in my opinion it is like she devastated the lives of those around her and yet did nothing with the outcome.
Sorry for the harshness.
Overall, this has been my least starred Jodi Picoult book.
Ready to move on to another of her novels during this marathon of her books I am on.
It was well-researched and well-written book with a thought-provoking plot but as I read more and more of this novel I found a lot of faults within it.
I am a fan of Jodi Picoult and I usually enjoy her books because she tackles interesting and compelling moral dilemmas in her novels and I like how she always writes the narrative from several different characters points of view so the reader knows what everyone is going through and understands how they are feeling.
Handle With Care is basically the same novel as My Sister's Keeper just told by different characters and another disease.
Don't waste your time on this book.It would be a lie to say it's a boring book.
But the end truly ruined the whole book for me.
It's not just a sad ending that makes you wanna cry, it's the sort of ending that makes you regret about ever reading this book.
I truly loved it at first but when I finished it I hated it so badly that I didn't even want the copy to be mine anymore.
I couldn't bear the fact that I wasted my money on this book.Do yourself a favor and don't waste your time.
***MAJOR Spoilers below!***I love Jodi-- her writing style, impeccable research and use of immensely controversial subjects makes her my favorite author.
In fact, until the main story lines resolved right at the end, I felt no differently about this novel as I have about most of her others in the past- brilliant.
First, Marin's search for her birth mother ends completely predictably, making me wish the entire story line just didn't even exist in the first place.
I agree with those reviewers who are calling this book "My Sister's Keeper- The Sequel," as the endings are so completely similar.
This is an exceptional book. I enjoyed it very much. Highly recommend.
One of my favourite books! Love this author!
Like many Jodi Picoult books, Handle With Care is well written and deals with a well researched difficult issue impacting a child and family. I often learn a lot reading Ms. Picoult's books and this one didn't disappoint in that regard, teaching about the devastation of osteogenesis imperfect, sometimes called brittle bone disease. This wasn't one of my favorite Picoult novels. Parts were slow for me. The last 150 pages the pace picked up and I was very engaged. Then, there's what felt like an overly dramatic unnecessary jarring twist at the end.
Jika tuntutan ini berhasil, mereka akan memiliki jaminan untuk memberikan Willow kehidupan yang layak dan nyaman.
Belum lagi mereka juga memiliki Amelia, si sulung yang sering terabaikan karena Willow.Tuntutan ini makin runyam karena dokter yang memeriksa kehamilan Charlotte adalah Piper, sahabatnya sendiri.
Dan yang lebih penting secara moral, apakah layak, seorang ibu menggugat dokternya karena ia tidka diberi kesempatan untuk mengugurkan kandungannya sendiri?Saya benar-benar menyukai buku ini, bagaimana penulis bisa membuat pembacanya terikat secara emosional dengan tokoh-tokoh dalam cerita.
Memberikan dan memastikan anak-anaknya melangkah dengan aman ke depan, meskipun sebenarnya tak ada jaminan yang dapat meyakinkan kami.Buku ini amat kompleks, dan saya beruntung telah membacanya meski belum memiliki waktu untuk mengupasnya lebih jauh.
First off, this book is being compared to My Sister's Keeper due to similar themes and family issues.
I would agree but argue that My Sister's Keeper is much better.
Second, can anyone be that stupid (referring to the mother Charlotte)?
The lawyer was adopted and looking for her birth mother (of course she meets here but you'll never guess who she is).
Finally, the ending bothered me even though I saw it coming after about the first 50 pages or so.
No spoilers but the ending seemed non-sensical after going through the ordeal that they went through.
A typical Jodi Picoult ethical/medical dilemma story. The ending was not a total surprise that I found quite annoying. I felt manipulated.
Willow has brittle bone syndrom and after a disasterous trip to Disney the family finds out they have a good lawsuit case.
The lawsuit is a "wrongful birth" case.
The story really kind of beats to death the idea that the mother loves her daughter and is only suing so that they can afford all the best medical care for the daughter while completely tearing the family apart.
In the end, I felt like it was a very bad recycling of her previous book My Sister's Keeper.
I would suggest any of her other books, but go ahead and skip this one...read My Sister's Keeper instead.
I am not happy with this book at all and just when I thought Songs of the Humpback Whales would be my least favorite book by this author, I stumbled upon Handle With Care - this book was poorly edited and the worst part being the utterly unfathomable ending!
I just finished this book today and I am not sure that time will heal Picoult's attack on my reading brain.
By having the child die, Picoult negated the entire point of her book -- that every life has value.
So when I saw that she'd written a book about a family bringing a wrongful birth suit because they couldn't afford to take care of their 5-year-old daughter's significant special needs (she has brittle bone disorder), I was intrigued.
Picoult is at her best (least worst?) when she handles medical issues, and medical malpractice--especially with regard to wrongful birth, which I think is a disturbing concept--interests me.
Word up to the author: random plot twists that abruptly end your book and are meant for tear jerks and shock value do nothing for your plot.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wzHf7...Uma história da qual gostei muito mas que quando comecei mas estava a mexer a comigo. A partir do meio, fiquei completamente dentro da história.
Kali ini JP mengangkat tema tentang dilema seorang ibu yang memiliki anak difabel.Sean dan Charlotte O'Keefe sangat gembira ketika mengetahui usaha mereka untuk mempunyai seorang anak berhasil, setelah penantian dan usaha fertilisasi dua tahun lamanya.
Sementara Charlotte memilih untuk melanjutkan tuntutannya sehingga dia bisa mendapatkan dana ganti rugi yang bisa dia gunakan untuk membiayai hidup Willow yang tidak murah, Meski dengan resiko besar, dia akan kehilangan sahabat dan mungkin kepercayaan dari anaknya sendiri.Terkadang kau harus menjadi manusia yang buruk demi menjadi ibu yang baik.Jujur saja, membaca novel ini membuat saya sesak nafas.
Dia merasa Charlotte sudah kelewatan dan tidak mencintai Willow.Menjadi orang tua bukan hanya tentang melahirkan anak.
Her mother, Charlotte, goes forward with it, despite her husband being against it and the fact that the defendant is her best friend/OB-GYN.The book is written in the typical Picoult multi-POV fashion.
Couldn’t they see that she just wanted Willow to have all the resources she needed, despite the fact that it was a wrongful birth/medical malpractice suit?
Despite the shocking ending, I would read the book a 1000 more times and have my heart broken all over again.“Things that break – be they bones, hearts, or promises – can be put back together but will never really be whole.”
