https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7973.Enchantment
This book is awful!
And when I actually got to the end of the book about 3 minutes ago, it wasn't even a very good ending!!
It took 350 pages to build up to an anti-climactic ending.Why is it awful?
The author uses every opportunity to throw in a foul word or sexual comment.
I got so tired of reading cuss words and the nakedness was such a ridiculous element of the story - so forced!
Also, it had, in my estimation, sexually explicit scenes that I don't need to be reading.I won't be reading anything by Orson Scott Card again.
I almost really loved this book.
The plot of this book is truly brilliant.
It is a great story but the characters...oh, help us.
I mean they say the things they should say and do the things they should do but I think the author is lacking in his ability to tap into the subtle and amazing things that make us human.
This book is no different.
I just never really liked Ivan or Katerina and had a hard time believing they could be in love or even real people for that matter because they lack depth.
Years later, while visiting his childhood home, he finds himself drawn to the same clearing, only this time, he stumbles unwillingly into the midst of an unfolding drama for events that happened--are happening--hundreds of years earlier.Readers of fairy tales and Russian mythology will appreciate how Card carefully yet effortlessly works familiar names and creatures into the story, tying the medieval world to the present day, and imbuing both with magic.However, the tropes common to the fairy tales we're familiar with don't exactly apply here.
The hero does not charge into danger out of a sense of duty, but rather falls into another world, flailing to recover his sense of self and find his way home.
Instead, the couple goes through the struggles of getting to know and understand eachother, including trying understand eachother's cultures, which are hundreds of years apart.
They must learn how to love eachother and support eachother in trials and danger (which includes being chased through time and space by the witch that put the spell on her), finding their place in their new families, and learning how to make marriage work.
Please note: I would not give this book to teens or kids, because of a brief scene and references to married sexuality, but those were not offensive to us as a married couple as they are tastefully done and important to the story.
Fairytales, fantasy, basis in actual folklore type stuff; it's even decently written.However I found the characters so unlikable that the story was ruined for me.
I just didn't care.The early events in the book made it nearly impossible for me to appreciate any of the remaining story, because the characters were so reprehensible to me, I didn't really care what happened to them.As most other reviewers have said it is a wonderful fantasy/fairytale romance and I would not have even minded the less appealing qualities of the characters if they had been used to show dynamics and growth.

And better than anything that Calgon has to offer, listening to the audio version of Orson Scott Card’s Enchantment, can really take your mind away.Running through the forest in Russia, 10-year old Ivan finds a beautiful sleeping woman who is magically frozen in time.
This magical fairy tale transports Ivan to 9th century Russia where Ivan must save Katerina and her kingdom from the evil Russian witch, Baba Yaga.
Orson Scott Card shifts the point of view several times during the book, giving the reader the opportunity to hear the story from eight different people including Ivan, the princess, and even the wicked Baba Yaga.
So generally I don't read science fiction. But, I had two friends highly recommend this book. "My favorite book," one of them said. So I read it. Not easily at first because I don't read a lot of fiction these days. But, you know what....it was a delightful book. I really did enjoy it. A little romance. And not the normal science fiction that I was expecting. Good stuff all around.
After freeing the princess with a kiss Ivan finds himself transported back hundreds of years where the evil witch, Babba Yaga, tries everything in her power to stop their happily ever after.
Honestly, this book was so boring for the first 300 pages.
The only thing I liked was Babba Yaga and Bear.
I found all the other characters to be dull and boring and I didn't really care for any of them.
There was a lot of religious talk and since I am not religious, it got boring to me very quickly.
This one's hard for me because every single time I look at the title, I hear this in my mind and it gets tiresome after awhile.Gabe knows what I'm talking about.Kat probably does, too, come to think of it.March 12:I've made it to the halfway mark.
And she makes no sense, ever, with her arguing about one thing then about the opposite and then about what Ivan thinks of her.
I don't love her anymore.Baba Yaga.I'll take the revisionist history fairy tales of this witch over the cartoonish version of her in this story.Everything else.Just...no.I'm done.
3.5 stars. Another quality effort by Orson Scott Card. Right between "I like it" and "I really like it" (hence the 3.5 stars), this is a smart, well written re-telling of Sleeping Beauty with a Russian twist. Would have been a 4 star effort from most other writers, but having read some of OSC's superior work (Ender's Game, Speaker for the Dead andHart's Hope), I hold him to a higher standard. Definitely worth reading.
A neat take on a Russian Sleeping Beauty story that goes beyond 'happily ever after' & the kiss.
There are gods, but they're not all-powerful.
There's a wonderful wicked witch & a lot of good people along the way.
A really interesting sojourn in 900AD life, too.
It sagged a bit half way to 3/4 of the way through.
Too much internal dialogue that was repetitive.
It's worth getting through as the end is quite good.
Very well narrated, my preferred way to read OSC's novels now.
He writes them to be read aloud.
Both are fantastic & really made the story pop.
It's ok. a bit uneven in tone, and I didn't particularly like the forays of the fairy tale princess into the modern world. The stuff in old Rus was far more interesting. This could just be a personal thing, but I don't really like deconstructions of legends. This veers a bit close to that by offering some "cute" explanations for the some of the staples of Russian fairy tales like the hut on chicken feet and Ivan the Idiot. I prefer to have a sense of mystery around my legends. Still, it was enjoyable.
I started this retelling of “Sleeping Beauty” immediately after finishing  City of Thieves , and I was fully expecting to be transported to a radically different world. Imagine my surprise when this book picked up more or less where the last had left off – in the Soviet Union (albeit the 1970’s, not post-war). I got to the enchanted forest eventually, but it took a couple of chapters.The book is a fusion of the fairy tales of Sleeping Beauty and Baba Yaga, the baby-eating witch of Russian folklo
Our handsome prince is Ivan, a Jewish boy born in the Soviet Union who defects to America with his family at age ten and returns to the Ukraine as a grad student after the fall of communism.
Orson Scott Card, himself a Mormon, probably doesn’t know the difference, but any religious Jew would, and most would find the Jewish characters offensive.I think I’m going to create a new shelf called “Regrettable Reads.” The addictively good writing of this book deserves at least a 4, but for the portrayal of the Jews, it loses one, and even that may be too little.
And what other non-Christian would make any sense in pre-1000 Russia?
It makes perfect sense in the book's context.But it means that I am meant to root for Ivan's marriage to Katerina, and against poor Ruthie.
To root for a marriage that makes all his children non-Jews, completely lost to the Jewish people.
(Not to mention be ok with his conversion to Christianity.)Somehow, I can't imagine OSC ever making a character Mormon as a plot point.So on the one hand, I would give this book 4 stars; and on the other point, I would give it 1.
I just realized that I've never written a review for this wonderful thing!
I've never loved anything else OSC has written, this is a major departure.
Loved both the book & the audio.NOTE ABOUT AUTHOR-MY PERSONAL BELIEFSI'd also like to add that I realize OSC has made some homophobic public statements and certainly doesn't come across as very tolerant.#1 - while the author is LDS (Mormon), his harsh words do not reflect what our church leaders teach us about kindness and love towards others.
#2 - read this book, despite the fact that OSC said mean things.
When I was learning Russian my teacher told me about Baba Yaga (this scary witch woman from old Russian folk tales) and she is in this book as a character so that was pretty interesting.Also, there are a lot of times I was pissed at Katarina for the shit she put Ivan through.
There's a lot of crude jokes in it (which I though was funny considering I assumed(wrongly) that this was an Ender's Game-type young adult book of Card's) but you can overlook most of them.Audiobook caveats: I dozed off a couple times during the Baba Yaga sections of the book-->The woman reading her sections was good at the narrative voice and the witch but her voice as the bear was ridiculous.
This book was worth reading.
There were elements I loved - the slight skewing of fairy tale, and the contrast between the modern world and the ancient world makes for unlimited writing fodder.
The anthropologist in me loved the discovery of ancient language and early writing.
The story was definitely good.What I didn't like is that in many areas it read like a romance novel.
The are sections of the book where the constant inner dialog of the angst of love was quite wearisome.
Can I ever love him...
It's why I don't read romances.
But still, worth the read.
As a fan of Orson Scott Card, I absolutely hated this book.
A mediocre retelling of fairy and folk tales (mostly from Russia) this book was cliche, drawn out, and often boring.
Where intrigue and drama was trying to be built by the use of modern magic, it felt trite and forced.
Complete with crashing a jetplane in the past (explaining Baba Yaga folk tale with her flying chicken legged house.)While the retelling of folk tales in this book are interesting and arguably well woven, the overall book just didn't work.
An absolute do not read.
Find another Scott Card book or something worth while, because this one isn't.
No teda, to hodnocení si ještě musím rozmyslet, váhám mezi 4 a 5 hvězdičkami... Ale vážně by mě zajímalo, jestli Orson Scott Card někdy viděl Mrazíka... Ha, Ivan! :)
Good, but I would say it falls short from the rest of his body of work.
I find myself rather disappointed to be sure.
I would if it comes with trying to 'update' or 'retell' a fable that has been rewritten endlessly through the ages.My suggestion would have been to firstly choose other character names.
If one's names don't seem to 'fit' the person/character I feel like they are 'fictional' and I have a difficult time investing myself into the world.
I want to be drawn in- to feel myself lost and no longer realize that I am, in fact, reading.
You can't even really feel sorry for Ruth, losing Ivan so abruptly.
So much fun :D I loved the romance between her and Ivan.
Just natural.I loved both times in this book equally - Katerina in the 20th century, Ivan in the 9th.
The gorgeous historicalness of the 9th and the language geekery, contrasted so nicely to that fun culture-clash which happens when someone is shifted forward in time.
I love how everything wove together like that.
:) I loved how Ivan managed to beat Bear to get to the princess.
This book came highly recommended, but for the life of me I can't remember who recommended it.
I was bored by the beginning but intrigued by the idea of the plot, so I kept reading.
I enjoyed the middle but grew bored again and tired of the characters.
Finally I reached the end where I conclude...it wasn't bad.
But it wasn't a book I needed to read.
This isn't one of those classics you force yourself through and then feel like a better person for reading.
At 415 pages, I think this book is too long and not interesting enough to even be worth recommending.
It was fun to delve again into the minds of Katarina and Ivan and recognize the beautiful difference between men and woman.
Not only is it a fabulous retelling of Sleeping Beauty, but it is beautiful commentary on the power and magic that can exist in marriage between a man and a woman.
I haven't read a lot of Card's stories, but the ones that I have, I love.
Like I said in my earlier review, this is a modern/fantasy/in the past mix of Sleeping Beauty.
Loved it!This is a retelling of Sleeping Beauty, but so originally told that the story stands alone by itself.
Orson Scott Card is of course best known for Ender's Game, an sf classic to be sure but he has written several other books which to my mind are equally good.
The story is based on the original Russian version of Sleeping Beauty, folk tales, and some Slavic history.
I love it when the magical world intrudes upon our world, the sort of thing you get in urban fantasy.While the story is less than epic in scope I still had an absolute blast with this book.
This book is pure joy and a must read, you may even learn something about Slavic history which will undoubtedly come in handy at parties and such.
Tracy, please don't hate me. I tried really hard to like this book, especially since you like it so much, but I just couldn't get into it. I think I have something against Orson Scott Card. This is about the 3rd book of his that I've started and couldn't finish. Ender's Game was one of those, but I'm going to dig deep and get through it eventually since everyone loves it. I got in about 150 pages on this one, and just couldn't keep going. Am I reading too much lately that I'm just getting too picky?
I have always been interested in Russian folklore, and it was fun to see it come to life in an extremely engrossing and epic way. Wonderful book.However, Orson Scott Card is still a homophobic bastard and he'll never see a penny of my money.
Sleeping Beauty is awakened not by Prince Charming, but a Jewish-American graduate student with a penchant for Slavic languages and long distance running.
After defeating a bear that guards "sleeping beauty," Ivan kisses her and she awakens.
Their hope is to defeat the witch and bring safety to Katerina’s village, but stating that their task is difficult is an understatement -- let's just say that Ivan and Katerina don’t exactly hit it off when she awakens from his kiss.I can’t say that all fantasy fiction is for me, but this book can be credited with my newfound appreciation for the genre.
I listened to Enchantment by Orson Scott Card (of Ender's Game fame - still one of my favourite books) on audiobook, because I had some long trips coming up.
It wasn't a book I had been wanting to read (random pick from the library), but it filled the time quite easily, and I found out that I like to listen to audiobooks while running - yay for multitasking!
However, it quickly becomes an ordinary but well researched, structured, and paced story about magic and witches in an otherwise muggle world.
For that gorgeous magical place alone, I'm grateful.
I started this book on the recommendation of a friend, who commented that the author's biases were rather restrained here.
I cannot agree with this statement.I gave up on this book on a plane when my next book was out of reach.
When I gave up, frustrated with all of them, it was because I realized that the character I empathized with most and the one I wanted to succeed was the villain.You know, the one committing bestiality.
The author set her up as a survivor early on, and...
somehow all the other major characters were less empathetic and less interesting.
