https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25571845-death-of-an-airman
Death of an Airman had everything I like about Golden Age mysteries: eccentric characters, humour, technical detail that makes it fun to follow the puzzle, red herrings galore, and a solution to the mystery that made it difficult to book down the book before the last page.My favourite part was when Scotland Yard followed a lead that involved the covert sale of a French newspaper to "special order" customers in Glasgow which ended with the policemen being thrown out of the newsagents...
Además, el misterio es ingenioso y en la época en la que se escribió ya se estaba en unas novelas detectivescas algo más sofisticadas en cuanto al puzle.
Ya se habían dejado atrás los misterios más simples (y probablemente lógicos) porque la gente ya se había leído suficientes libros del género y ya conocían los trucos y podían llegar a la solución más fácilmente.
Así que esta novela es consciente de ello y complica lo suficiente el puzle .
Readers will find Death of an Airman bittersweet, as it is one of the few books the author, Christopher St. John Sprigg, published in his lifetime.
Sayers proclaimed the novel as having “a most ingenious and exciting plot, full of good puzzles and discoveries and worked out among a varied cast of entertaining characters.” Readers will find they agree with Miss Sayers wholeheartedly.In Death of an Airman, an Australian bishop finds himself in England and decides to learn to fly airplanes, the better to travel in his extensive diocese back home.
It wasn’t worse than them in any palpable well, and probably better than one or two, and I rather liked the Bishop as a character.
Perhaps it was a certain feeling of inevitability — having read Kerry Greenwood’s (obviously more recent) Cocaine Blues and Dorothy L.
Sayers contemporary Murder Must Advertise, certain things seemed immediately obvious.Mind you, when I say I liked the Bishop… after the opening of the story, he wasn’t much of a character; none of them were, really.
Maybe that was my problem: it felt more like a puzzle than anything at times, and the two Inspectors were pretty indistinguishable (actually, were they both Inspectors?
Entretenida novela ambientada en los inicios de la aviación privada, cuando volar era un verdadero riesgo y cada día se intentaban nuevas hazañas.
En este ambiente, un obispo australiano que quiere aprender a volar, investiga la muerte en extrañas circunstancias de uno de los profesores de vuelo.Personajes bien construídos; trama sencilla, pero bien hilvanada.
Lo que más me ha llamado la atención es que el lenguaje parece mucho más moderno que en otros libros escritos en la misma época (años 30).Al mirar los datos del autor, he visto que también fue un poeta y pensador marxista; y que combatió en la guerra civil española, en las Brigadas Internacionales, falleciendo en la batalla del Jarama.
For example, at the beginning, he and others read a letter left by the dead airman, which says, in part, "Laura, I've never tried to find out since then, not because I'm afraid to try my luck, but because I've been getting into an awful mess, one of those messes one drifts into like a damned helpless fool.
Suddenly two days ago I realized what an awful hole I was in, and how much worse it would be if I didn't end the whole business..." For many pages, everyone bumps around believing this to be a suicide note.
As you read it, did you not think it was, at the least, ambiguous?
I would have, but I have this illogical need to finish any book I begin reading.
I liked this mystery of a pilot whose death is initially written off as an accident a great deal. And I was glad I persevered past the point where there seemed to be a plot hole the size of the Grand Canyon, because the sleuths spotted their mistake and redeemed themselves pretty thoroughly. The tale is humorous, and entertaining - and while it's not that difficult to work out some of the plot, at least the reader's suspicions are confirmed stylishly and without dragging things out for long.
Entre 2 y 2,5 estrellas.Tras un par de capítulos, prometedores, y hasta interesantes, en los que se presenta a los personajes y aparece el cadáver, la novela pronto va perdiendo interés.Los personajes, excepto unos pocos (los policías, la directora del aeroclub, Sarah Sackbut, Lady Laura y, en menor medida, el obispo), carecen de personalidad.
Varios de ellos son meros nombres para hacer bulto (resulta difícil recordar quién es alguno de ellos y su cometido dentro del club) y ser "sospechosos" en uno u otro momento.El obispo, que parece va a ser el protagonista, no tarda en desdibujarse en favor de los policías.
La historia discurre con un ritmo casi cinematográfico y reúne, de hecho, muchos de los elementos propios de un guión de cine de la época (o de las tiras de prensa: imposible no recordar las escenas aéreas del Agente X-9, de Dashiell Hammett y Alex Raymond, aparecidas el mismo año de la publicación de esta novela, 1934) mostrando un mundo en ebullición y un elenco de personajes memorables a la altura de los tiempos. Muy Seguir leyendo
I swithered between 4 and 5 stars for this one, it's one of the better British Library Crime Classics. I read it all in one sitting.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2018/0...
A tale filled with the playful language and eccentric characters of detective fiction's golden age, plus an aviation mystery - what's not to like? I was particularly impressed by all the female pilots.
This is another book in the excellent series of crime novels from the British Library archives.
When the instructor is killed in what seems to have been an unfortunate accident the Bishop is unsure whether it was in fact an accident.The author was less than thirty when he wrote it but it reads like a mature work of an author with many novels already published.
I found it excellent reading and the ending was as full of suspense as any modern crime novel.
If you want a well written crime novel with no bad language and what could almost be the plot of a twenty first century novel then try this one.
It's actually a reprint of a story that was written as a contemporary mystery.
They tracked down reasonable leads, asked good questions, and would quickly realize when the various scenarios they came up with didn't match the clues.
We learn the clues as each character finds them, so we have a chance to guess new scenarios before the detectives do.It's not easy to make all the clues fit together.
Like the detectives, I would guess, realize that doesn't quite work, but how about this, but no...
I like it when you can guess just before the detectives, but they're still clever fellows.
Despite starting with the death of an airman (ergo the title), the story took some time to develop.
The death is perceived to be suicide then murder then suicide and back and forth again.The cast of characters is a pastiche of classic British stereotypes so it took a while for the story to catch me.
The poor local constabulary was plodding at first but was redeemed by the end and the two story lines were resolved in a satisfactory manner.If you are looking for a mile-a-minute mystery, look elsewhere.
This is a superb book with everything one could want from a detective story.
An unusual plot, good characterisations of the protagonists, a pair of engaging detectives and a gifted amateur, plenty of red herrings and loads of clues all written with a crisp and witty style.
Apparently this is difficult so hopefully the British Library might publish some others.Very highly recommended !!!
I received a copy of Death of an Airman from the publisher and Netgalley.com in exchange for an honest review.A particular delight!
It is rare to find a Golden Age mystery with intriguing characters, a mystery that is a true puzzler, and a sly sense of humor; Death of an Airman provides all three in spades.
The central crimes are intricately plotted and just confounding enough to keep the reader on edge while the characterizations provide a depth and interest that propels the story along - I found it to be a combination of the best type of Agatha Christie with the wit and pacing of a P.G. Wodehouse.
Thoroughly enjoyable!
I had not heard of Christopher St.John Sprigg before which is a pity, as I missed out on this fantastic mystery for too long - I certainly will be searching for more of books by him in the future.
All these book are so well written, the language is fun and the characters development is spot on.
I also like that it is not only a mystery book but the book opens a window in history for me.
They are just a pleasure to read.This book was provided to me in return for a honest and unbiased review.
A rattling good whodunit, where the perpetrator of the crime and how it was carried out remain a mystery until the end. The story was written way back in 1934, when private and commercial aviation was in its infancy and was regarded almost as a sport. And yet the writing style is not as dated as one would expect. There's no iconic, eccentric master detective a la Poirot here, just some persistent, methodical police work, providing a note of realism to what is otherwise a fanciful story.
This is such a good mystery story. It stands along side Peter Wimsey and the other more well known Golden Age detective stories - it is clever, well put together and intriguing. I didn't get it all worked out until very late on - there's so much misdirection and so many twists and turns that it'll leave you breathless. I don't know how this has been forgotten for so long.
Solid mystery set at an airfield in England with investigation in France, Glasgow and Germany. Murder or suicide? That was the question. And how did the drug running tie in? Lots of solid suspects and fun names like Sally Sackbut and Lady Crumbles and Lord Entourage. Great vintage mystery. Glad it was reprinted so a new generation can read it.
I enjoyed this tremendously. I know these books are not popular with some readers. Personally I have enjoyed all the books that the BL has published in this series.
My only criticism of the book is that like Freeman Wills Crofts - the author makes his inspectors churn over the same facts somewhat too often - making the novel seem a little stretched.
Nor is rigor the only, or the most certain, indication of the time of death; and there was at least one person present who could have cleared the confusion up if the Bishop, or anybody else, had had the wits to ask him the right questions.But if we allow that these mistakes could have been made, then we shall find ourselves involved in a most ingenious and exciting plot, full of good puzzles and discoveries and worked out among a varied cast of entertaining characters.
Having got to know the various characters working at the flying school he is ideally placed to help investigate the unexpected death of an instructor who seemingly flies his plane into the ground.
There is one section where the local police inspector, Creighton and the “Yard” man, Bray are mulling over the various suspects at which point the story becomes infuriatingly and potentially unnecessarily complicated and you realise that neither know what on earth actually happened - and I stopped caring for a bit - but this doesn’t detract from the overall pleasure of the read.Favourite character: Sally Sackbut.
Death of an Airman starts strong, and ends even stronger.
Too bad the middle of the book is a bit of a drag.
I felt the story lost a lot of momentum in the middle third...lots of different settings and “meanwhile, over in France...” asides that didn’t amount to a whole lot in the end.If you’re a fast reader (I’m not), you probably won’t mind, and the last 50 pages are great—a satisfying conclusion with narrative pacing on par with Dorothy Sayers.
For that reason alone, I’d still recommend the book, but only for fans of the genre.

What a fun whodunnit!
This is easily the best of the British Library Crime Classics I’ve read så far.
The writing is excellent, breezy and fun, and the humour and bantering very much reminiscent of the early Dorothy L.
Sayers mysteries, which I love.
For once in a Golden Age mystery, there were also an abundance of interesting, likeable female characters.
(After reading two horrible Gervase Fen mysteries I very much appreciate CSJS’s lack of sexism.) I wavered between 4 and 5 stars but give the book 5 stars because I enjoyed it so much.
I started this thinking there would be lots of discussion of how the airman died and a plodding on until the case was solved, when suddenly it took off and flew away in a quite unexpected direction, so I really enjoyed this story. I do also love some of the archaic expressions - shows how speech has changed in the 80 years since this book was written. I would definitely recommend this book to fans of golden age detective fiction, and anyone else who enjoys a detective story set in the days before DNA analysis etc.
There were some surprises in this mystery from this British Library Crime Classics reprint. An Australian bishop signing up for flying lessons whilst in the UK made a lot of sense and he was a fine character. There were an assortment of eccentric women, a sappy American judge, a brief appearance by a German aviator, a French connection, some white powder, etc... What fun!The motives for the crimes seemed rather modern for a book written in 1934. I love this series. My copy is an advance review copy from Poisoned Pen Press, the USA publisher.
The plot jumped about too wildly for me. Each theory (about how and why the murder had been committed) put forward by the police was so ludicrous I figured it must be the truth, until the next one, which was even more unbelievable. It was all so complicated there wasn't enough room for much in the way of characterisation, which might have made some characters' actions easier to accept. I do like reading these British Library classics, though, and will carry on with them.
An experienced pilot is killed in a plane crash. Was it an accident? Suicide? Murder? Given the genre, the reader might assume the answer is "murder" but this seems an impossibly puzzling answer. In steps Inspector Bray of Scotland Yard to unravel the mystery. A good cast of entertaining characters, a quaint setting, plenty of bafflement, and an excellent finale make this a very enjoyable read.
