https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/130081.Red_Cavalry_and_Other_Stories
The cult of Babel: Odessa's literary flashmobs attract book-loving tourists. The Black Sea city may lack the pedigree of St Petersburg but it was home to Isaac Babel, and has a storied past as a stopping point for globe-trotting intellectuals.Babel - the Bard of the Black SeaCover: Montage from an album of Russian pictures, 1938. Courtesy of the British Library LR276.c.5Edited with notes by Efraim SicherTranslated with an introduction by David McDuffEarly Stories (3)Autobiographical stories (8)Red CavalryOdessa StoriesNotesTextual NotesAppendix
Ruhu pelteleştiren savaşı, aciz bırakan birtakım fiziksel ve zihinsel şiddetleri akla tek değini darbesiyle çakmak! Bunu ancak farkına varmadan yapabilir bir yazar. Bütün ayrıntılara bulaşmaz. Oradadır, orada değildir. Olayın etrafında boksörce dans eder, hesaplar gibi görünür ama aradığı tesadüfi bir boş bulunmadır. Bir cümle. Bir sözcük. Ve güm! Sert ama uyanıldığında bir türlü anımsanamayan düşün belleğe gömülüşündeki yumuşaklıkla. Kim nefret etmez ki savaştan? Kurşuna dizilenlerin arkasındaki duvar her zaman delik deşiktir, her zaman.
Red Cavalry: 5/5The other two collections: 3.5/5
I adored the Red Cavalry Stories.
Babel's stories, taking place during the brutal Soviet-Polish Wars, show us a world of sentimental beauty; religious and ethnic strife; powerful, lively Cossacks; dreamy Jewish people; and irreverent artists.
Above all it is a painful, multidimensional world, full of lyricism (the Road to Brody is a personal favorite, with the talk of the republic of bees) and heartrending grief (the numerous massacres that take place).
There is something especially raw and lovely about Babel's writing, knowing that he would be executed two decades after these stories were published.
Some of the short stories in Red Cavalry are barely a page long – but they are always brilliant snapshots of war, of its moral ambiguity.
The Odessa Stories are sunny, funny tales of Jewish life in the years before the Revolution.
Very different from the Red Cavalry cycle, they are like a Russian version of Damyon Runyan – but darker and more threatening.
Babel said two great things about writing in general: "No iron can enter the soul like a full stop put in the right place." and "A simile should be as exact as a sliderule and as fresh as the smell of dill." He follows his own advice to the letter – and so should every storyteller.
Isaac Babel was a brilliant writer. He was murdered by Stalin. If you can read "Red Cavalry Stories" without having an emotional reaction you're not human.
Completely incredible. Worth reading slowly, to savor them. At times beautiful, at times heart-rendingly horrifying, but absolutely amazing throughout.
After reading these, I had to wonder how Babel managed to avoid imprisonment and death as long as he did, from the mod-1920s when he had completed these stories until he was executed in 1940, having had some major projects--writing a film for Eisenstein--and serving as a literary editor.
The arrest accused him of Trotskyite behavior and spying.The "Red Cavalry" stories are described as "the pinnacle" of Babel's work, but they hardly satisfy what came to be called "socialist realism"; the violence is repugnant, the treatment of horses no better, and the circumstances of fighting and feeding hardly heroic.
Babel's art is realism period.
I've read enough Russian literature to know that I don't get it, and even when I get it I don't seem to like it. And I always struggle with the constantly-starting-over aspect of short story collections. Yeah, I don't know why I did this to myself again either.On the upside, I read this while waiting for my sleep drugs to kick in at night, and I wasn't tempted to try to fight to stay awake to read more, so...win?
Babel is absolutely brilliant, a master at using images of beauty and fragility to emphasise the cruelty and brutality of pogroms and war.
Red Cavalry is not brilliant at all, it's chaotic and rather disappointing.
Would give it more stars if I could.
This book contained other stories, but I read only the "Red Cavalry" group and the introductory and biographical material -- about 200 pages total.
as in the way the Cossack acted.
Then again, it is talking about very confusing and nonsensical activities -- WAR, and even more than that, civil war -- although actually war between the Poles and the Soviets, but many of the participants switched sides or fought other groups of Cossacks or Russians.
I think the style really does work -- the reader gets the impression that nothing is straight-forward or predictable.But, all in all, enough was enough, and I wasn't tempted to read the other Babel stories.
First of all, I don't know anything about that war and this is seriously impacting my understanding of this book, because Babel is certainly not informing us on the context or the major events of this war.
Red Cavalry is a collection of short, and some of them very short, stories, each painting a picture of one event or scene of the war.
The book is incredibly beautiful and poetic while at the same time exposing the harsh and bitter reality of that war.
This is a book that gains to be reread several times.
Part of Jewish Lit. - Identity and Imagination" at LMU.Very Russian.many in the group related to the era of 1900 and 1914 as from either parents or grandparents first hand experience. Babel refers to the Cosacks at "noble savages",. My Mother would have related that her Dad would have called them savages and not at all noble. Seems Babel had sympathy for the Cosacks. sort of a love/hate situation. Very grapic in spots. A wonderful period piece.
The "Red Cavalry" stories are written from the perspective of a journalist with a Cossack regiment in the Cavalry Army of the Red Army during the Russo-Polish war, a part of the Russian Revolution. To read the stories is to view the world from a revolutionary perspective, which is certainly an interesting intellectual exercise. I cannot think of anything else I have read that comes at reality in the same way. It should be required reading for anyone interested in the history of the period.
This is "classic" stuff but I just couldn't get into it. The writing is a little on the precious side for me. FULL DISCLOSURE: I didn't finish it, and therefore decline to say yeah or nay in terms of stars.
This 1926 classic was written in the early 1920s and focused on the ravages ofthe Polish-Russian war. One of the first portrayals of the bitter hardship for theRussian people. It was so ruthless a depiction that in 1933 Stalin banished Babel'swork. Very remarkable.
I heard about "Red Cavalry" some years ago, and got the book in order to read it. However, while I enjoyed that portion, I liked the tales of the gangsters and characters of Odessa's Jewish slum even more.
I had really high expectations for this book and although there were few good stories here and there, I was disappointed at the end. Apart from its historical value, I think its literary merit is overrated.
This is actually my second reading of these stories - the first was in university - and I had forgotten how sparse Babel's style is and yet how vivid the imagery. Highly recommended for anyone interested in early 20th century Russian literature but not for the feint of heart or the squeamish.
Read what's worth dying over.
Not cottoning to this edition/translation, totally subjective as I don't read Russian. It just feels off. Putting it aside for the Constantine from Norton.
