https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10507.Baudolino
Baudolino begins to recount his life story to Niketas.
رمان بائودولینو را به دو بخش میتوان تقسیم کرد: بخش نخست از آغاز رمان تا مرگ فردریک کبیر را دربر میگیرد.
سفرها و جابجاییهای زمانی و مکانی موجود، در رمان یا به بهانه ی شرح لشکرکشیهای فردریک است به ایتالیا و بویژه به میلان، یا رخدادهائی ست که بر بائودولینو در سفرش به پاریس، و تحصیل در آن شهر میگذرد.
در این بخش دوم، سطح رمان هماره میان رئالیسم بخش نخست، و نوعی فرار از واقعیتگرایی، در نوسان است.
"in a great history little truths can be altered so that the greater truth emerges."What would an Umberto Eco novel be without a pile of theological debate, historical references bordering on the obscure, and convoluted story-telling that makes your head spin?
If we can think of a story that is grander, and more epic than anything, shouldn't that story be true too?Even though there are a lot of great messages in this book, throughout the entire novel Umberto Eco, largely through Baudolino, is jerking us around.
Αν και λίγο κουραστικός ο Eco, αποδεικνύει ότι είναι φοβερός γνώστης τη μεσαιωνικής ιστορίας, αλλά και ταλαντούχος μυθοπλάστης.
I absolutely adored it and was drawn to it from page one until I was forced to close it (you know, to sleep or study or when I actually finished it).The first thing we learn about Baudolino, the main character of this book, is that he is a liar.
There is not a single Umberto Eco novel that I haven't really enjoyed but I believe that Baudolino is his most relatable character.
His only gift is his ability to lie, to use language and words in order to create stories and make things happen by making them up.
Lakin yalancılığı onu sayısız maceraya sürükleyecek ve başını sürekli belaya sokacaktır.Umberto Eco, kusursuz akıcılığa sahip anlatımıyla kitabını bir solukta okunur hale getirmiş.
Bir süre sonra okuyucu, neyin gerçek neyin kurgu olduğunu anlayamaz hale gelecektir.
Bu durum; okuyucuya bir tarih kitabı okumadığını, bir roman okuduğunu hatırlatmaktan fazlasını yapar… Bizi baudolino’nun kendi bulanık gerçekliğine adeta götürür, bunu adeta bize de yaşatır.Kitapta neyin kurgu, neyin gerçek olduğunu anlayamayız ama bu noktada; Baudolino da kendi yarattığı dünyada tıpkı bizim gibidir.
Abdül’ün romantik ama bir o kadar da dramatik hikayesi Baudolino’nun hikayesiyle beraber akar.
This is a novel that I love to return to.Baudolino, a self declared liar tells the story of his life to a Byzantine court official and historian who he has rescued from the sack of Constantinople during the fourth crusade.Baudolino's story takes in the life and career of his imperial majesty the Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, study at the university of Paris, the third crusade up to the death of the emperor, the acquisition of the mummified bodies of the three kings for Cologne Cathedral, the discovery of the Holy Grail, the writing of a letter from Prester John and a journey to the fringes of the Empire of Prester John himself and an escape from the fortress of the Old Man of the Mountains...That is unless it was all a hashish inspired dream...Or a lie from beginning to end.In a recent episode of 
In Our Time

Ο Εκο ηταν μεγάλος παραμυθάς .
Για πολύ καιρό δίσταζα να διαβάσω αυτό το βιβλίο αφού είχα ακούσει απο πολλούς οτι είναι βαρετό και 
However, what the book is really about (I think; it’s a bit difficult to tell with Eco) is what is true and what is not and how easily one can become the other.Baudolino himself is established as an unreliable narrator from the very beginning of the novel.
He invents a letter from Prester John to Frederick which sends Baudolino and his friends off on an impossible journey to find the kingdom that they themselves have created, bearing a cup which they style as the grail.
Umberto Eco, who previously gave us The Name of the Rose and Foucault’s Pendulum, gives us a fantasy historical novel about the fictional right-hand man to Frederick the First (1122-1190), also known as Barbarossa, emperor of the Holy Roman Empire.
Baudolino is an inveterate liar and stretcher of the truth, so when he undertakes a multi-year mission to find the mythical Prester John, the exaggeration and fantasy reach a peak.
This is the time of the Crusades and, tongue-in-cheek, Eco acquaints us with the origin of sacred relics.
At one time the expedition is carrying six heads of John the Baptist for barter.
His characters may not be as deep or personable as less ambitious novels (“I decided that if this was my fate, it was useless for me to try to become like other men.” (232)), and Eco plots can be circuitous; but he captures the daily experience of the times, alongside subtle, grand points of semiotics (“There are no stories without a meaning.” (12)) and theology.
Baudolino is not as pulsing as Name of the Rose or Foucault’s Pendulum, less a mystery, more an epic.
As an epic, it ebbs; but when it flows, the story is clever, funny, a wonderful balance of sacred and profane.
Još jedan sjajan roman Umberta Eka! Srednjovekovna istorija prepliće se sa mitom i fantazijom. U romanu ima svega: istorijskih događaja (Krstaški ratovi, opsada Konstantinopolja, vladavina Fridriha I Barbarose), potrage za Svetim gralom i carstvom Prezvitera Jovana, mitskih bića (skijapodi , satiri, hipatije...), filozofije. Na ovo uzbudljivo putovanje vodi nas Baudolino, posinak Fridriha Barbarose, koji je vešt u pripovedanju, ali i u izmišljanju priča...
تا صفحه ي ٦٠ فكر ميكنيد كتاب يك رمان خيلي عادي است.تا اينجا با شخصيت بائودولينو آشنا مي شويد.از ٦٠ ت
کتاب از دو بخش تشکیل شده، بخش اول که بیشتر شرح فتوحات و کشورگشائیهای شاه فردریک، پدرخوانده ی بائودولینو، است و بخش دوم که شرح سفربائودولینو و دوستانش به شرق افسانه ای جهت تحویل فیالجه یا همان جام مقدس شام آخر به کشیش یوحناست.
بخش اول تلفیقی از وقایع تاریخی و البته داستانسرائی اکو است و بخش دوم در فضایی فانتزی میگذرد با موجودات غریبی که در سرزمین کشیش زندگی میکنند چون چترپا و فیلگوش و ...
آنجا که از قصر علاالدین مینویسد و عسل سبز توهم زا، به وضوح مشابه داستانهای هزار و یکشب است.
This becomes the frame story for Baudolino’s other adventures, from his childhood adoption by Emperor Frederick Barbarossa to his “discovery” of the Holy Grail and his quest to deliver it to the mythical kingdom of Prester John.
This makes the novels somewhat harder to read—because of the way the characters speak and act—but I love being able to slip, if only briefly and superficially, into the medieval mindset.For an example of this, consider the kingdom of Prester John, the hunt for which becomes the focus of the last third of Baudolino.
That stony course stops only at the beginning of the Sabbath, and only on the Sabbath can it be crossed, but no son of Israel could violate the Sabbath day of rest.”Baudolino is an accidental hero and an inadvertent adventurer… His fate, personified by Umberto Eco, mercilessly set him on a series of escapades in the magical realism of the past and in the never-never land of medieval history.
Baudolino once again shows Eco’s amazing ability to turn what may be a boring pseudo-historical narrative into something hilarious, occasionally cheeky, and always insightful.If Baudolino is to be believed, he was single-handedly responsible for the canonization of Charlemagne, was responsible for the propagation of the myth of Prester John, and indirectly fueled Frederick’s ill-fated Third Crusade.
The story that Umberto Eco created fits so perfectly behind history as we know it that it’s sometimes easy to forget that Baudolino himself is entirely fictional.Baudolino, as a character, is also one of the most interesting ever written.
I enjoyed Baudolino's world where lies become truth.
I've seen other authors struggle with this in other books and I appreciated Eco's ability to keep this told tale fresh and in the moment.Where I lost enthusiasm for this book was the meandering biographical back story in the beginning.
I found the ending satisfying, although it leaves room for what would be a very maddening sequel (I doubt Eco is penning Baudolino 2).
I still intend to read some of Eco's better loved books, so he has not lost me as a reader, but I also can't recommend this book.
Great imaginative novel, its only 'weakness' being its sprawling structure. Contained within the novel are mythical creatures, legends, a genuine locked-room murder mystery, and lots of Gnostic memes. All of this told through the self-admitted lying narrator, perhaps one of the better 'unreliable narrators' I've ever read. The meditations on the nature of myth and legend and the innate need for stories of power were great. Perhaps my favorite moment was two mythical creatures debating the Holy Trinity.
Girişten bir süre sonra sürükleyiciliğini ve amacını kaybetmişti ama son 150-200 sayfada tekrar sürükleyici ve ilgi çekici olmayı başardı benim açımdan. Özellikle artık iyice fantastik kurgu kısmına girildiği zaman. Dünyaya inancımı kaybettiğim zaman ilgili sayfalara dönüp Hipatia'nın bilgelikle ilgili konuşmalarını okuyabilirim. O kısım çok başarılıydı.
In that curiously relaxing time between Christmas and New Year's, when there's not much to do except sit around and read (if you're lucky enough to work somewhere that shuts down between the two), I picked up Baudolino.
It was one of the pile of books I plowed my way through while visiting my in-laws.
I hadn't had that much concentrated reading time in quite a while.
Gosh, it was nice!Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Inizialmente un po' spiazzante, visto che inizi a leggere delle lettere sgrammaticate in latino, poi quando ti immedesimi nelle avventure del simpatico Baudolino ti lasci trascinare nella Storia con la esse maiuscola. Esilarante la parte della moltiplicazione delle reliquie, le teste di San Giovanni Battista. Da rileggere.
اشعر بأني قضيت دهراً وأنا اقرا هذه الروايه !ليس لأنها اقل متعه وليس انها ممله بل لأن هناك شيء عميق ومدهش وملحمي يقبع وسط 600 صفحه .شخصية باودلينو الغريبه ورحلة البحث الطويله التي استغرقت عمراً كاملاً .ليس لدي الكثير لأكتبه عنها لأنها تحتاج من قارئها ان يكتشفها هو بنفسه .
"Sometimes, when what we've sought is almost within our grasp, we make our faith a lie so that we don't have to give up our quest by achieving its goal."When I finished Thomas Pynchon's V.
last month, the sentence above was my entire review of it because I felt that was the most important thing I took away from that reading of the book.
As I read V.
Here the achievement of a goal precipitated the loss of the spirit, drive, and fellowship that were the quest.
Baudolino is a liar.
His life is a picaresque and often amusing novel where History mixes with history.
What's more funny for me, it is the relics traffic.
At the middle-âge, it was a very profitable buisness.
There is a joke : it was said that, with all authentics pieces of the Jesus's cross carefully collected in the churches, we could build an arch for Noé.
Style is beautiful, it is magnificiently written.
Alexandre Dumas said "We can cheat on the History on condition that it's to make her beautiful children." This one is splendid.
resuming after a long break...
I'm a total sucker for medieval stories, which made up for the fact that I know sweet eff-all about the various finer points of Christian theology that so much of the book revolves around.
Personally, I'm rather content to leave historical fiction as an intact story in my mind, but now I can't remember what I really know of the Albigensian heresy, what came from some ancient little novel, and what came from Piers Anthony (ok, the last is a little easier to sort out).
للاسف لا اشعر بالتشويق والحماس وجمال التفاصيل كما برواية "اسم الوردة" .هل الترجمة هي السبب ؟ ام ال "مود" الحالي , ام الرواية نفسها ؟لا ادري , ولكنني اعلم شيئا واحدا , انني لم استسيغ الرواية ....PASS
The two books are apples and oranges and shouldn't be compared together.As the story opens, Constantinople is being sacked in 1204 and the hero of this novel, Baudolino, is telling his dear friend Niketas Choniates, who, as it turns out, is the most famous chronicler of these events.
As Baudolino begins his tale, it takes the reader back in time to when he was just a child, the son of a peasant family in what is now Italy.
The story continues through the sacking of the city, as Baudolino relates his very bizarre life and the odd things that happened to him before he arrived in Constantinople.
