https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48118.The_Ghostway
Los Angeles seemed safe from these particular old people.Another fun, quick read from Hillerman in Navajo Mystery #6.Jim Chee tries to solve a shooting and tries to save a 17-year-old girl from a murderer.There's not much to say about this.I hate Jim Chee's girlfriend, Mary Landon.
Chee's just about having a panic attack over this because he was training to be a medicine-man and there are fewer and fewer Navajo medicine-men each year and his culture and his way of life is super-important to him, and this woman is just demanding that he just give it all up.If I ever met her I'd have some choice words for her, believe you me.
Before this case is solved Jim Chee will travel to Los Angeles and, as usual, find himself torn between the traditional culture of the Navajo people and the beckoning white world.
Chee is studying to become a yata'ali, or Navajo healer/shaman, but his girlfriend, Mary Landon, is trying to convince him to apply for a job with either the FBI or the Bureau of Indian Affairs and relocate to Washington, D.C. I was particularly interested in the information presented in this book about Navajo culture and religious traditions, especially the rituals involved with preparing a person for death and preparing a body for burial.
Hosteen (elder) Joeseph Tso is finishing his laundry at a landramat in Shiprock, when a stranger asks him to look at a picture of a man and wants to know if he's seen him.
SGT Jim Chee follows the trail of the first car to the hogan of Ashie Begay, and finds the man presumed to be Leroy Gorman, buried, almost in Navajo tradition, but not quite.
Chee returns a week later to the Begay hogan, and finds the girl in the hogan weeping for her grandfather.
Add to the mix that a hired killer wants Margaret dead, connected with some off-reservation troubles.
I wasn't all that thrilled with certain parts.
I didn't like the way animals were treated in this one.
I guess the mystery made sense.
I am not sure I followed all the logic in his final conclusions.
I also question that a teen could act so decisively and successfully, against a seasoned killer, although I do see how easy it would be for that killer to disregard a teen.
I was also impatient with how much time was spent on Chee's agonizing on what to do about his girl friend.
Chee irritates me and I'm not completely sure why.
Another fine novel by Tony Hillerman. I just enjoy his descriptions of the four corners area. This time Chee is investigating the murder(s) of Navajo's who were relocated from the reservation to Los Angeles and return to Navajo country. A Car theft ring and witness protection play into the plot. It is a fun and fast moving mystery.
Starts with an altercation in the parking lot of a laundromat in Shiprock that leaves one man dead and another wounded, on the run.
Tribal Policeman Jim Chee initially teams with the Feds to find the missing man, but when the corpse is discovered outside a Navajo hogan, prepared not-quite-right for the afterlife, Chee chases a trail that leads from the Reservation to L.A. and back again, all while dealing with is own personal issues of identity.Jim Chee is a great character-- quiet, reserved, a careful thinker (his Navajo name, after all, is Long Thinker), and interestingly vulnerable.
I am slowly working my way through Hillerman's books.
The Ghostway has Jim Chee looking to find out who killed Albert Gorman, what happened to his brother, and dealing with a runaway girl from a private school.
Somehow they all seemed tied together but Chee is struggling with how, or why.I wasn't all that sure about Chee when he was first introduced, mostly because he was so conflicted about his place in the universe - should he stay on the Navajo reservation or should he take a job in the white world.
Tony Hillerman delivers another gem of a mystery. Jim Chee struggles with the pull of his tradition set against the love of a woman who is not Navajo. I thought the Leaphorn books couldn't be matched, but Chee is able to carry the book on his own. I'm enjoying revisiting the series and filling in the gaps of the books I haven't read.
Gripping, plus you receive a lesson on Navajo Indian culture. Tony Hillerman has a brilliant a way of incorporating very ordinary things into a suspenseful story- - it makes you think any of the characters might be you!
Another Hillerman novel starring the police detective Jim Chee. I enjoyed it more than the earlier one, with its more convoluted mystery (although I wonder about how credible the final twist is) and its details about Navajo culture. Chee faces something of a career and cultural crisis in this episode as well. The only lacking element is a portrayal of the least engaging romantic relationship depicted in a mystery series ever; Chee's girlfriend literally only appears in his thoughts of her, and one letter she writes him.
At the time I'm writing this, Amazon has somehow managed to link the reviews of Tony Hillerman's "The Ghostway" with the reviews of his "Sacred Clowns" (each product page shows the reviews of both).
A sub-plot in this book is Hillerman's re-examining of Chee's White/Navajo choice.
So, with the problems with the main story, itself, and with my dis-satisfaction with Chee in this book, I can only rate the book at an OK 3 stars out of 5.Hillerman's "Leaphorn & Chee" novels are:1.
The Dark Wind6.
The Ghostway (Jim Chee Novels)7.
Chee to his chagrin ends up having to go to Los Angeles to track the girl.
Shortly there Chee ends up in the hospital with a concussion thanks to one of the gangsters in Los Angeles.
Hillerman's unusual characters are a blast to read about.
Jim Chee is a character that's impossible not to root for as he gets abused in every book.
Chee is much smarter, and clever than those he must deal with even though the other characters do not realize it.
Tony Hillerman's are an important part of Americana that must be enjoyed by all.

This is my fourth book that I have read by T Hillerman; I it good but felt the portion of the white man violent actions did not added to the story and were unnecessary.Jim Chee again featured.
He must located a Navajo to solve a case of a shooting which is a federal case.
He finds the grandfather and his hogan is now a death one.
Jim knows that Godin Joe Begay would not leave his hogan unless something was wrong.
A Navajo girl is missing after receiving a letter from Joe Begat, her Grandfather.
Chee goes to Los Angles to trace her.
#6 in the Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee "Navajo" mysteries, although this one featured just Jim Chee. Read by George Guidall, my favorite reader, so it was a delight to listen to. Chee begins to investigate a shooting death, mostly on his own since the FBI is involved and has warned the Navajo Tribal cops off. Lucky for him, he finds that the shooting is related to the disappearance of a Navajo girl that he's already been investigating. Excellent as always.
Another good one. :)
A young Navajo girl is contaminated by an angry ghost spirit by entering a Hogan where a man has died.
The mystery revolves around who this man is, why he died and who killed him.
Navajo families were separated from one another by whites wanting to destroy their culture.
The elders on the Navajo reservation perform a Ghost Way ceremony to cleanse the girl restoring her to the state of hozro i.e. being in harmony and balance so she may walk to walk in beauty once more.
You will have to read the story to find out who killed the mystery man left in the Hogan.
A pretty standard Tony Hillerman book. I never felt that the plot dragged at any point. The storyline was believable. At least if you take out the part where the 16-year-old girl gets the jump on a professional thug TWICE. (And true to form, Jim Chee misplaces his gun and does not end up firing it at any point). This one reoccurring item of Jim Chee's inability to use a firearm aside, I felt this book was decently interesting and a good straight read.
Old Joseph Joe sees it all. Two strangers spill blood at the Shiprock Wash-O-Mat. One dies. The other drives off into the dry lands of the Big Reservation, but not before he shows the old Navajo a photo of the man he seeks.This is all Tribal Policeman Jim Chee needs to set him off on an odyssey that moves from a trapped ghost in an Indian hogan to the seedy underbelly of L.A. to an ancient healing ceremony where death is the cure, and into the dark heart of murder and revenge
Interesting book with a real twist at the end. Just what mystery should be except I sometimes get tired of having to have the author suddenly explain how it all comes together.The gold in this one is looking at the difference between being a Navajo or white man and the difficulty someone would have deciding which way to go. That and the sorrow of ways of life being forgotten and buried.
Not an action packed thriller but actually a Navajo policeman's pursuit of his destiny
Read as an audio book.
Which called into question his expectations of the relationship; if he hands in the FBI application, he walks the path of the white man.
If he doesn't hand in the FBI application, he continues his studies to become a Navajo Singer and stays a Navajo - but without Mary.
The search for both lead the reader through an exploration of white culture as seen through the eyes of a Navajo - specifically, Chee's eyes as he struggles to decide to stay Navajo or become white.
I thought it added so much to Chee's dilemma about which path he should walk.
I have read over half of them, but I recently decided to start over "at the beginning" with Hillerman's entire Navajo mystery series.
One does not have to begin with book #1, but I do recommend it so you can watch characters grow and evolve."The Ghostway's" plot moved rapidly while introducing new twists and turns, leaving the reader with that feeling of wanting to read "just one more chapter" before putting the book mark into a page.
I do recommend that you give the book or series a chance, and you too will soon be turning the pages enjoyably immersed in the novel.
In high school I was basically obsessed with Tony Hillerman books.
I tried to read all of his books in my school's library.
The only thing I didn't like what I couldn't really figure out the order of the books, and so I read them out of order.
Read the book, because who knows what new world one might fall into?
You won't know if you like it unless you give it a try.
You won't know if you love them unless you crack open the cover and say "Chapter One...." What's the worst that could happen?
However, by story line, this is definitely book 2 of the Chee series.
Then in this book he is having problems in the relationship and is trying t figure out how to work them out.
As far as that relationship is concerned the two books should have been reversed.
Otherwise it was an entertaining mystery and one that, for the first time, Chee leaves the Nation and travels to California.
I hope she will return later in the series.
I look forward to the next where Leaphorn and Chee work together for the first time.
One is murdered, the other shot and he drives off.
Chee traces him down to a hogan in the middle of nowhere.
Plus the old man who owns the hogan is not there.
Woven through this book is a continuation of the love story of Chee and his white girlfriend, Mary Landon.
Through this book (and others by Tony Hillerman), I have learned a lot about the Navajo culture.
There are things that we could learn from the Navajo culture such as waiting for people to speak, listening to all they have to say, and caring for family.
A good murder mystery !
I was in the Deschutes County Library in Redmond, OR and needed to find a book to read on the train trip home.
I found a bunch of Hillerman and I've enjoyed many of the Navajo Mystery books in the past.
Score!This is probably one of my favorites of the Navajo Mystery series' books I've read to date.
Since I've read them out of order, it's difficult to write about character growth, but, as I've found in the other books in the series, the main character (Jim Chee) is interesting, character development feels very complete, and I love reading his thinking processes as he tries to maneuver his way through the complexities of his Navajo traditions and the modern world.
I LOVED this book!
It had some Navajo cultural backgrounds that were fun to learn about.It was a murder mystery.Two men pulled into the wash o-mat.
One man was shot and the they both drove off.
The man shot was later found dead!
Jim Chee, of the Navajo Tribal Police is out on the hunt for the killer and a runaway girl who is related to the dead man!
we he find the killer?
You'll have to findout!I loved this book because I love Navajo culter and murder mysteries.
If you love Navajo culter and suspense, you'll Love this book!

This book swept me away to this other wonderful world. The setting was brilliantly set. I could totally see it in my mind. But the characters were definitely my favorite part. They are all so colorful, interesting, exciting, and hilarious. The main character is just perfect. The plot moved fast enough that I couldn't stop reading lest I miss something, but the author still took the time to flesh out the details. The details are what really make or break a story.
