https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31886.Introduction_to_Mathematical_Philosophy
Starting with cardinal numbers, Russell begins by analyzing the mathematical concepts that people take most for granted, providing their logical foundations, clarifying their meanings, and identifying common pitfalls in our language about them.
Russell even provides a brief and (as much as is possible under such demands of precision) intuitive description of the logical theory of types and its evolution.
For the lay reader, it is also the most useful for its definitions of mathematics and logic and its explanation of why they represent essentially the same sort of pursuit, i.e. the pursuit of tautological truth, or as Leibniz would say, truth in all possible worlds.
The main reason I would often find myself struggling through the chapters was my lack of patience and overwhelming curiosity of what might I find on the next page.The times in which I was patient and thorough enough to follow Russell's reasoning were a very rewarding experience and I think it really changed my approach to thinking about mathematical/logical precision.To sum it up, I'd like to quote the man himself: "If any student is led into a serious study of mathematical logic by this little book, it will have served the chief purpose for it which has been written."And that is the most important reason why I want to give this book 5 stars after all.
Honestly I didn't really finish this. Be ready for some hardcore logic shit that will rock you.

Lisbon Book-Fair 2016.
Rather than an exhaustive treatment, however, the influential philosopher and mathematician focuses on certain issues of mathematical logic that, to his mind, invalidated much traditional and contemporary philosophy.In dealing with such topics as number, order, relations, limits and continuity, propositional functions, descriptions, and classes, Russell writes in a clear, accessible manner, requiring neither a knowledge of mathematics nor an aptitude for mathematical symbolism.
The result is a thought-provoking excursion into the fascinating realm where mathematics and philosophy meet — a philosophical classic that will be welcomed by any thinking person interested in this crucial area of modern thought.
Or sure, there's the dance around 'functions' and whatnot, but the end result is the definition contains the word it is defining.He then goes on to conflate material existence with all forms of existence, and declares that there is nothing else aside from the material existence as seen through our senses, "There is only one world, the 'real' world[.]"Which was exceptional odd since he just spent a chapter talking about the unknown reality of the axiom of infinity.
The very arguments he marshals against non "real" objects can be applied to anything non material, including mathematical axioms and concepts.Russell also lumps "unicorn" with "a round square".
کتاب را از کتابخانه دانشگاه گرفتم- ترجمه ابوالقاسم لاله منتشر شده در سال ۱۳۷۶.راسل آدمی بود که از اعداد تا خدا را بدون منطق نمیپذیرفت- جایی خوانده بودم راسل در خانه تحصیل کرد و وقتی برادرش اصول هندسه اقلیدسی را به عنوان اصولِ بدون اثبات بیان میکرد، راسل اصرار بر بیان اثباتی بر آنها داشت! با این مقدمه در مورد راسل، این کتاب تلاش راسل است برای فهم اعداد در قالب نظریه مجموعهها. باید ذهنی بیش از حد شکّاک داشته باشید تا با کتاب جلو روید. خیلی وقتها احساس میشود مسائل پیش رو بدیهیاند و نویسنده بیجهت کا
همین طور اگر از خود پرسیده‌اید کتاب پرینکیپیا ماتماتیکا راسل و وایتهد با انصد صفحه-که ظاهرا به دلایل باز منطقی به اهدافش نرسید- در مورد چیست، بخشی از این کتاب خلاصه‌ای از آن کتاب عظیم را در بر دارد.در پایان پارادوکس راسل که یکی از مشارکت‌های مشهور راسل در ریاضیات است بحث می‌شود، اما از نظر من مشخص نیست ترجمه بد یا خود اصل نوشته آن قدر خشک است که مطالب به سختی -حتی به خواننده‌ی به شدت متمرکز- هم منتقل نمی‌شود: و به همین دلیل این کتاب/ترجمه این کتاب بیش از سه ستاره نمی‌گیرد!
The first few chapters were mind-blowing: not necessarily difficult to understand, but not the kind of things one would have thought about (and even then, not to the same precision as Russell). However, it started to get a bit more labyrinthine; the chapter concerning the multiplicative axiom and the axiom of infinity flew way over my head. Definitely not an easy read, and I think Russell could use clearer examples. That being said, the final few chapters were pretty clear and not difficult to follow.
My rating here is somewhat arbitrary because I did not have the patience to understand a significant portion of this book. Although it is an "introductory" text, it nevertheless requires a certain mathematical inclination to grasp. I've never been one to find math very interesting or stimulating, and Russell has reinforced this opinion for me. Owing to his reputation, however, I'm confident that the content itself of the book is impeccable, but I'm certainly not in a position to critique it.
This book is no more than Principia Mathematica condensed into words. Why give it more than 1 star? Well it still has a good amount of material in it, some very valuable material at that. It's a very dry read, but a decent overview of some of the theory that results from viewing math as a branch of logic.
It's hard to understand, but I like it. The study of logic has a certain flavor to it that nothing else has.I wonder how might this compare to the way information is arranged in our brain. Neumann wrote it was probabilistic, but I'm not sure I get what he meant my that.So much to know, so much to discover!
Excellent!
Read it for the third time, I found out the now I have many things to learn and understandGreat book that invites you to begin the mathematical journey
At this point, therefore, for the moment, we reach the frontier of knowledge on our backward journey into the logical foundations of mathematics." -Bertrand Russell (p.204)So it is with modern math's struggle for ever-increasing rigor.
Published in 1919, Russell offers what is, by any account, an excellent attempt at building a working system of mathematics from the bare bones of logical deduction.
In 1919, Russell skirts around the edges of a key aspect of logic--one that Godel later proved in his incompleteness theorems in 1931--that is:1) In a logically deduced system that is complex enough to perform math as we know it,2) There are certain hypotheses that are true and can never be proved or disproved.
1) Bible for the obsessive:Mathematics is known to be the most rigorous and precise of all the branches of learning.
If you feel even that is not good enough, this is the read for you!2) The struggle that I faced in reading this book -which is intended for the "general public"- shows how us engineers sometimes overestimate our math abilities, especially considering that my field has been Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, which are more profoundly connected to theoretical mathematics than other engineering fields.3) Gonna be honest, comparing Russell's writing to that of Einstein, I can't help but to feel a bit of disappointment.
This was an area I had greater passion for and stronger background in, yet he still managed to bore me from time to time.
For a deep, mathematical text, this is quite brief and readable!Some of these ideas outdated a few years later by Gödel's incompleteness theorems, but still it's fascinating stuff. Russell a clever, clear, writer, and most assertions are buttressed concrete, sensible examples. Even if some of it is over my head, I love how some of the simplest notions -- like trying to define What Is A Number -- so quickly spiral into complexity.Finally, I recommend the Partially Examined Life podcast episode 38, which provides some helpful context for this book and explains Russell's place in the history of philosophy. http://www.partiallyexaminedlife.com/...
Can be hard to understand in certain chapters (my own fault I'm sure) but the fundamentals come through.Among other things, came away with solid understanding of Cantor's power-set proof as well as a deeper understanding of Russell's paradox and pet "theory of types". Axiom of Choice is still confusing. He has a delightful writing style and sometimes his short tangents into areas just past the border of "pure logic" are the most interesting parts of a section. Loved the emphasis on the "incompatibility" operator--there's a reason NAND gates are useful.I like when he uses unicorns in his examples.
I finally finished this short book. You really have to love this stuff in order to commit to reading it and philosophical meanderings of this sort are not my thing. This book seems more of an esoteric digression than a practical assistance to those trying to understand and employ math. The Goodreads description of this book reports that it is a seminal work, but not for me. Perhaps I am too limited in my scope of appreciation because elements of the book remind me of "database" theory, e.g. one to one, one to many, many to many and so forth.
Sitting on his logic expertise, Russell tries to educate us on fundamental concepts of mathematics. The whole thing sounds like a talk trying to reach layperson using several analogies (he insults philosophers making logical mistakes as well) or to motivate young students. The highest point is a construction stating that is nonsense discuss the existence of god. Warning: You may fall in love with Mathematics!
Worth reading for the sensible, thoughtful introduction to and deduction of "number as cardinality", which is one of the single most crucial realizations for grokking any of modern mathematics (look to Landau's  Foundations of Analysis for a rigorous treatment of this topic from an Analytic standpoint). I gave this away to a mathematically-minded freshman when I graduated high school, with my blessings.
Abbandonato dopo qualche capitolo.Non tanto perché fosse brutto o poco interessante, quanto perché non aggiungeva nulla a quelle che già sono le mie conoscenze sull'argomento.Per chi ha una buona base matematica, più che un approfondimento, questo saggio di Russell può essere considerato... una sorta di ripasso.Per chi non ce l'ha... beh, armatevi di pazienza. Potreste scoprire un mondo.
In diesem Buch gibt es eine Menge interessanter Dinge zu entdecken, z. B.:-Die Peano Axiome, das Prinzip der mathematischen Induktion.-Zahl, Menge, Klasse, Beziehung, äquivalente Mengen.-Endliche Zahlen, Erblichkeit.-Ordnungen, Asymmetrie, Transitivität, Folgen.-Ähnlichkeit von Beziehungen, Kardinalzahlen, Ordinalzahlen.-Unendliche Kardinalzahlen.-Grenzwerte und Stetigkeit.u. a.
This is the best introduction to set theory that I've seen. So, 5 stars for Lord Bert.As always, Russell makes masterful use of the English language.This seems to me to be his "popular work" that sheds the most light on his position regarding metaphysical inquiry in general.Gets sorta zen at times.
This book do not teach anything new or excting for today's reader, most of the concepts included in book were familiar to me. But I really enjoy it, becouse Bertrand gives you clearly structured overall describtion, it makes fragments of your understanding of topic to finaly fit together, to make good solid image.
russell likes to sacrifice precision for approachability. i guess you're allowed that if you wrote Principia Mathematica.
This is an excellently written book that shows themaster at work. It is definitely written in a veryreadable and understandable fashion. It is definitely a must read for anyone that wants tounderstand the underpinnings of science and technology.
I was under the impression that this would be light reading... It is presented clearly, but Russell primarily uses analogy to describe some very ambitious ideas that could benefit from a diagram or two.This didn't scare me off. I'll have to take a look at Principia Mathematica.
This highly accessible introduction to logicism was written by Russell while he was in jail in England as a conscientious objector during WWI. He later said that writing this book was the last time he was able to bring forth his full talent as a logician and philosopher.
Pushes mathematical understanding to its limits - and it does have limits. Mathematics does not stand alone outside the human frame of reference - not independent of us as we would like to believe, and I still mentally operate as though it does.
