https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/865767.The_German_Generals_Talk
It is easy to see how Hitler hoodwinked and handled them, and found them good instruments up to a point." With respect to that last point, I think that Hart might sometimes undercut that reflection, as he mentions the number of generals, some in high places, who mistrusted and disagreed with Hitler's approach.Still and all, this is a fascinating book.
We learn the views and military thinking of leaders such as Rundstedt, Manstein, Student, Manteuffel, Model, Kluge, Kleist, and so on.
A good introduction to the personalities who served in high posts for the German military.
We are as innocent of politics as babes unborn!" Now, Liddell Hart recognizes that this ostrich-like attitude caused a lot of problems for the generals in terms of their failure to oppose Hitler while they still could, but he never seems to consider the possibility that it is disingenuous, even though his descriptions of the infighting among the officers of the Reichswehr and later the Wehrmacht make it perfectly perfectly plain that the German generals were not innocent of politics in the social sense, even if they vehemently preferred not to know what Germany's right hand was doing.
(Notice, please, "conducting," not "fighting.") As if those reasons did not exist after war was declared.Obviously, I don't agree with Liddell Hart's attitude, but that's because I don't accept the construct of the "gentleman professional soldier" as a good thing.
B.H.L. Hart interviews the surviving German Generals from World War II and uses these interviews to form a wide ranging narrative from the Inter-war period though the Battle of the Ardennes. Throughout the book, Hart delivers useful observations and insights to anyone interested in WWII history, or the interplay of General Officers with their civilian leaders, albeit in Nazi Germany.
Basil Liddell-Hart interviews several top German generals from World War II, including von Rundstedt, Manteuffel, von Kleist, Student, and several others. It's a generally enlightening look at the war from the other side's perspective. Very critical of Hitler from start to finish, but also a fascinating study of command styles. Several contrasts were made between US, British, and German command attitudes during the war. Overall a quick and informative read.
This was a fascinating book... if you ignore the author's outrageously blatant self-promotion. I've read that the author's credibility came into question with experts because he may have invented some/all details where he says the German generals credited him with much of the theoretical underpinnings of their campaign strategy at the beginning of the war. I do not know what the truth was, and it was a very interesting book even given the possible problems.
Reading this books helps those who are studying politics , I know for sure that it helped me alot !! It was an amazing experience and I just felt like I was with those generals !!! I can feel that there are some mistakes in this book !! I read the translated version and when I revised online sources I found few mistakes , and I can't tell which one the correct one
Intressant av en kunnig och initierad författare!
Excellent, as always. I waited a long time to get hold of a copy, but the wait was worth it. Liddell Hart has few peers, if any, in writing on early to mid- Twentieth Century warfare.
The author, a soldier himself, seems to think that all these soldiers were rather pure and innocent.
He portrays them as rather disliking and turning their noses up at Nazism but continuing to Do Their Duty As Soldiers.
As though being a soldier doesn't involve death and maiming and killing...
when ordinary soldiers die, this always described as being a 'loss' from a tactics point of view.
If you're interested in the beauty of the tactics of armed forces without wanting to sully your Pure And Innocent nature with death and blood and pain and mental illness, this is probably the book for you.
A fascinating account of German decision-making in there Second World War based on interviews with a number of generals immediately after the war was concluded. But a grain of salt is needed: there generals needed to salvage their relations and Liddell Hart was keen to burnish his reputation as a proper of tank warfare. You will need to have a set of maps handy.
The first quarter of this book is an irrelevant short history of the rise of Hitler( which obviously had nothing to do with German Generals) and a brief outline of the German WW2 campaigns.There is very little information supplied by anyone from the German High Command and the title is seriously misleading.until you get further into the book when it improves and becomes an informative and entertaining read..
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14456445
What's more, Hart was just as open in his mind talking to them, letting the interviewees eventually shape his conclusions in the end.It's hard with other wars; the Chinese and North Koreans in the Korean War are either dead or behind the Bamboo Curtain and probably are not good students of modern military history and waging wars.
And yet they still lost or still had the typical inertia that can beset the military mind.
Hart's conclusion from a strategic military TRADOC viewpoint was that the old and the new generations and ideas could not work together.
B.H. Liddell Hart was one of the first military authors to publish accounts of WWII from a German perspective.
"The German Generals Talk" first published in 1948 is Hart's summation of the numerous interviews he conducted with German generals following the end of WWII.
One can see how Hart's writings have shaped much of the research that has been performed since.
What makes this writing unique is the personal dialog between Hart and the individual generals which makes their views come to life.
The book is a light read and moves along quickly.
Very informative and very hit or miss on every single page throughout the book.
After WW2, B.H. Liddell Hart, himself a British Soldier who helped to pioneer and write tank warfare doctrine during the interwar period between World War 1 and 2, was able to interview nearly every major surviving German General and even a few Colonels and other key people.
Worth reading for a serious student of history or someone digging into WW2 specifically but if you're looking for a first book on WW2 or a general history of the war this would not be the one you'd want to choose.
B.H. Liddell Hart does a great job intertwining events and interviews to paint the picture of a German war campaign that was potent but at times misdirected.
The clash between the tactician generals and Hitler's grand designs for world conquest plays out like a comedy if it weren't for the scale and brutality of the human tragedy across Europe because of one man.
This book depicts what can happen when a megalomaniac gains power and free citizens relinquish their ideals to follow a false deliverer.
This is a book of military analysis of WWII. An american military historian/tactician interviews the German Generals still alive after the armistice. It gives their views on different battles including the eastern front, North Africa, and the western front including D-day and the battle of the bulge through the Ardennes Forest of Belgium. Great if you want to understand WWII a little better. Readable for the non-military types.
Hart's book is an intriguing look into the minds of Hitler's General's after the war. Countless historians have surmised as to why Germany lost the war since then, but what makes Hart's book unique is that its told by the general's themselves immediately after the conclusion of hostilities in Europe.
I found this pretty interesting but if you research the author you come to find that he has a checkered past and that this book should not be taken as anymore than one man's account of the German view of WWII. Having said that I find the subject matter fascinating.
This book was published in 1948. The author was able to interview German Generals after the war. It gives the reader a flashlight which they can use to peer into the dark side. Great for people who want to get a better all around understanding of WW II
very good, but not exactly as star-studded as the title made me hope for.
Interesting book as it gives the German General's perspective of the major decisions of the war. Does answer some intriguing questions..
Unbelievable insight into the politics, drama, and simple decision-making processes that led to all of the major decisions for WW2. An incredible story iwish was mandatory reading in high schools.
The Generals talked of their profession; the interviewer failed purposefully to pose probing questions regarding thir campaigns.
