https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287241.Burning_Bright
This experimental play fails, not for the experiment, but surprisingly for overwrought dialogue.
Steinbeck tried too hard to develop characterization through speeches, which when placed in the mouths of a circus act become flowery and far too existential to swallow.
When Act II switches the scene to a farm, the thing feels like a melodramatic soap opera.
Still though, this is Steinbeck and at the very heart of the whole experiment is a quality story that probably would have come across real well if he had stuck with his usual novelization style.
The wiki page for Burning Bright explains the experimental side of the play.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Burning...
My edition comes in at a whopping 93 pages, and I really think that about a quarter of that should've found its way to the cutting room floor.
It's not like it was a huge time investment.
If the technical aspects of the story are removed, though, and we just look at the themes, it's the Steinbeck I've come to love.
I can't say that any of these characters are favorites - they have nothing on Tom Joad or Lenny and George, but they are well-written, understandable, identifiable characters that carry the story, each in their own way.
Nesta coisa híbrida a que Steinbeck dá o nome de romance-peça, os personagens interagem entre si em cenários cambiantes, cada acto é único nesse aspecto, mas as suas motivações permanecem constantes e a acção é perfeitamente linear. Da minha curta experiência, o diálogo de Steinbeck, que ganha ainda mais relevo numa obra como esta, é só equiparável ao de Hemingway.
The story and the characters stay pretty much the same, but the setting changes, showing the universality of the situation.As someone who has read quite a bit of plays, I found the structure of Burning Bright to be interesting.
After reading Burning Bright I am definitely interested to dive in to Steinbeck's other play-novelettes and novels.
Burning Bright is entertaining, interesting and quick to read that I definitely recommend especially to those, who like me, have been meaning to read Steinbeck but just haven't got around to doing it yet.
Човек никога не може да сбърка със Стайнбек, по мое мнение.Дори в рамките на стотина страници, човекът успява да сътвори чудеса.Единственият проблем с книжката (както и със "За мишките и хората") е, че ти се иска да беше писал още, още, още.
«با وجود تمام ترسها و خطاهایمان باز هم در وجودمان نوری میدرخشد و این مهمترین چیز است: در درونمان آتشی فروزان است.»«ترجمهی مرضیه خسروی»
«با وجود تمام ترس‌ها و خطاهایمان باز هم در وجودمان نوری میدرخشد و این مهمترین چیز است: در درونمان آتشی فروزان است.»«ترجمه‌ی مرضیه خسروی»

It boggles that I'd give any Steinbeck work a three-star rating, since I think he's one of the hallowed masters, but this little curio of a book didn't move me.
It's such an odd work—he dubbed it a "play-novelette"—set in three acts, with the stage trappings of place and character declaration drawn in, to me, stiff caricature.
The speech of the players often has a blustery formality that kept me at a distance, though some passages have the rich Steinbeck hand.
Perhaps if I hadn't read a good deal of Steinbeck I could approach this more open-heartedly, but as it was, I was left more puzzled than illumined.
The play novellette is what Steinbeck talking about, but the real thing is that he could't write a play. What he discussed in the foreword didn't convinced me at all. It's a novellette where all events happened in one place every chapter, or a play with a lot of description.I liked "of mice and men", didn't read "the moon is down", but "burning bright" was a complete disaster, the story is very silly and stupid, the chracters are shallow and unconvincing, the only remarkabe thing is that changing the place and characters sets every chapter.
May we all have a friend like Friend Ed.
My husband and I had met each other only a few weeks before I read this unforgettable little novel. He could not believe that a book could make anybody cry so much!
Answer: this book!As a novelette - 3 stars because the story is interesting enough to finish (although a bit cliche by now, maybe not so beginning 1900s).
Steinbeck being Steinbeck is so good at revealing the inner nature of his characters that he forgets the need for intense conflict in a play.
The beauty of reading plays is seeing the eventful and artistic ways in which writers have their characters demonstrate their emotions.
The beauty of a play format is having the tags that you register as you read but never focus on.Conclusion: should've stuck to writing novels only, Mr Steinbeck, that's definitely your forte.
Estes são os nomes que Steinbeck decidiu dar às suas personagens, mas poderiam ter sido outros porque o que eles representam é a espécie humana, as nossas preocupações, os nossos anseios, os nossos desejos e objectivos.
As realidades de onde vimos até podem ser diferentes, mas na essência somos de facto muito semelhantes, programados para preservar a espécie, embora muitas vezes pareça exactamente o oposto.Em três cenários à primeira vista díspares, um Circo, uma Quinta e no Mar, eles vão ser confrontados com dilemas morais, escolhas difíceis.
:)Foi bom voltar a Steinbeck numa história deste tipo, muito diferente das que lhe são tão características.
“Ярко сияние” на Стайнбек е нещо малко и красиво: http://www.knigolandia.info/2009/11/b... Не очаквах това книжле да ми хареса. Купих го, защото обожавам Стайнбек, особено потресаващите “Грозодовете на гнева” и “Тортила Флет”.  И все пак останах потресен след изчитане на стотината странички. Големият майстор доказва за пореден път, че може всичко, наистина всичко.
My least favorite Steinbeck novel, but I'm glad I gave it a second chance. I still think it's a failure, and by far the least satisfying of his play-novelette experiments, but there are still moments of classic Steinbeck brilliance, in the characters and the descriptions, if not in the story.
Bir Gazap Üzümleri değil ama John Steinbeck ne yazdıysa okunur.
Imagino que, para ser una obra de teatro publicada en 1950, debió haber sido bastante experimental, pues en el primer acto los personajes son trapecistas de circo, y en el segundo acto son granjeros, y terminan siendo marineros en el acto final.
El tema central de la obra, por otra parte, es muy interesante y apela a un sentido de la moralidad que da para muchas interpretaciones, aunque el desarrollo es un tanto melodramático y los personajes se expresan en un lenguaje que podría llegar a sonar un poco fuera de lugar (aquí si vale la pena considerar que, en realidad, se trata de una obra de teatro, y no una novela).
A bit soap-opera-ey, but elevated by Steinbeck's strong voice. Here he was experimenting with what he called the "play-novelette" with the book consisting of three acts, with four scenes altogether, each scene contained to one setting. Dialogue-heavy, Steinbeck said, "It is a play that is easy to read or a short novel that can be played simply by lifting out the dialogue."But I was most excited and intrigued by the way he experimented with his settings, a trick which I will not give away here - as it can be experienced for yourself in an afternoon.
Zanimljiv koncept i svakako zanimljiva moralna premisa, ali je izvedba neizbrusena i osrednja unatoc lijepom stilu...
I finally read a Steinbeck book that I didn't love.
This is an interesting novel, that is more like a play but takes readers behind the scenes of adultery, marital discontent and more.
steinbeck considered the work an experiment, "a combination of many old forms." in the foreword he outlines his reasons for attempting this synthesis, well aware of the format's inherent obstacles: "the difficulties of the technique are very great.
if a writer is not accustomed to seeing his story before his eyes, his use of this form is not likely to be successful." while the form itself is, perhaps, not as potent as either of its parts alone, steinbeck's endeavoring to craft a new literary structure is both brave and admirable.burning bright bears many similarities to greek drama, though lacks its depth and brilliance.
Burning Bright is a "play in story form." A short novella in three acts revolving around a marriage: Joe Saul and Mordeen.
Joe Saul is an older man, and Mordeen is his devoted wife.
But what Mordeen knows--and Friend Ed knows as well--is that Joe Saul is sterile.
Joe Saul and Victor are circus men.
The second act is set on a farm.
Joe Saul and Victor are farmers.
Joe Saul and Victor are sailors.
Joe Saul--in the beginning--is speaking about legacies.
Since it's the first act, he's talking about generation of generation of generations in his family being circus men.
Im a Steinbeck fan, but with this one I just had a bit trouble with the topic, I guess. At least at first, since in the end, it all turns around to a sensible stance on the issue. Maybe it needed to come a long way around in the times he wrote it, needed murder and betrayal and self-sacrifice? Idk. Anyway: Its all quite dramatic, and for almost the whole stretch of the story about how much blood matters, in what you leave behind, in matters of your daily life and work. To have children of your o
Idk. Anyway: It´s all quite dramatic, and for almost the whole stretch of the story about how much blood matters, in what you leave behind, in matters of your daily life and work.
Hm, maybe Steinbeck´s positive message on the matter is clearer than I thought, and I just got caught up in my own aversion to it.Probably because today adoption or all kinds of non-biological/non-natural/whatever ways of conception are more wide-spread, even popular practice so that nobody needs to argue for it anymore.So, it might just be that it´s outdated as an issue and therefore harder to relate to.
In Act One, Joe Saul is an older circus performer married to a beautiful young woman named Mordeen.
Mordeen knows that she is fertile, while Joe Saul has never been able to have children before.
Mordeen and Joe Saul's desire for children drives this story to a crisis.
But if one or the other knows - beyond doubt that the promise can't be kept - the wholeness is not there; the thing is an act, a pretense, a lie, and deeply deep, a uselessness, a thing of no meaning."
Part of Steinbeck's attempts at putting theater into his play-novella form along with Of Mice and Men and The Moon Is Down, Burning Bright struggles in the novella form.
Steinbeck is probably a victim of his own success with Of Mice and Men which works well as a novel and a play.
Readers approach this book expecting a novel and that is not what this is.
We approach our literature with expectation and when a writer of Steinbeck's stature wants to stretch us and challenge our expectations, maybe we should listen.
Cup of Gold Steinbeck disavowed, but this he appreciated?
While there are definite strengths--the allusion to the Biblical story of Saul, the unusual structure, the compelling set-up, and moments of great dialogue and description--there are also big drawbacks.
The novel/play (whatever) builds too quickly, lending the first third an unintended melodramatic quality; the sea section is a great change, but under-utilized--it might have as well taken place on land; and the climax in which Joe Saul reveals his sterility is both over-the-top and, in the days of Viagra, unfortunately reminiscent of a drug commercial.
Still, Steinbeck at his lowest is better than most at their peak.
There are four characters: Joe Saul (a widower in his 50s), Mordeen (his much younger second wife), Friend Ed (Joe and Mordeen's friend), and Victor (a younger man who works with Joe).
The changing settings are meant to communicate that the themes of the story are universal, although I'm not sure how readily apparent this is given that a circus performer or sea captain is not someone you'd be likely to think is just like yourself.
In any case, it's an interesting experiment in form, but I think the melodramatic dialogue works better as a play than as a novel.
I like the idea of a lineage of knowledge and values, but I think the central theme (love and guidance are the responsibility of all men toward all children and the idea of a "bloodline" being all-important is narrow and contemptible) just seems too self-evident to me.
I'm sure it was a revolutionary idea for Steinbeck at the time but I'm not a man in the 1950s so for me it doesn't seem like a story I particularly needed to hear.
I still love Steinbeck of course, but I'm not impressed with this one.
This was much more enjoyable and basically reads like a novel, with a bit more repition of the names than a regular novel would have, and a structure that jumped around from act to act as a play often does.
You could point out examples of tragic irony and the like if you were so inclined, but I preferred to read it as a novel and appreciate Steinbeck a bit more.
If you do end up reading this book, be sure to read his introduction and the reasons he includes for making Burning Bright in this format.
