https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29209.The_Color_of_Water
McBride is a black journalist, novelist, and jazz musician who recognizes what a wonder his mother Ruth was when she raised him and 11 siblings and gets her to open up about her secretive past.
When McBride as an adult gets her to submit to taped interviews, her marvelous voice finally comes through about her hidden past as a Polish Jew with a tough upbringing:I’m dead.You want me to talk about my family and here I have been dead to them for fifty years.
She ends up marrying a kind-hearted man, Andrew McBride, and having 8 kids with him, including James as the last, born after he died.
I read so many books, that very few actually stick with me, even 8 years after the fact. I cannot recommend this book enough. McBride writes from two different points of view: himself, and his mother. He parallels his growing up in poverty to his mother's story of moving to Harlem, before the civil rights movement. It is amazing. I had the opportunity to meet the author at a writer's conference right after we read this for bookclub, and he is a gentle soul who has the most respect for his mother. It is eye-opening, inspirational, and an amazing read!
سيرة حياة ملونة بالأبيض والأسود وكأنها توثيق لفترة التمييز العنصري في أمريكاالفكر السائد والجائر عن الآخر المختلف في اللون والعِرق والديانة يحكي الكاتب والموسيقي جيمس ماكبرايد سيرته الذاتية بالتناوب مع سيرة والدتهالبولندية اليهودية البيضاء المهاجرة مع أسرتها إلى أمريكا, وزواجها من أمريكي مسيحي من أصول افريقيةحياتها مع أبناءها ال12 في حالة من الفوضى المنظمة, وقوتها الواضحة في المواجهة والتجاهل سرد ذاتي يكتب فيه ماكبرايد بصراحة عن تفاصيل حياته, أفكاره وتساؤلاته وأخطاؤهويعرض أيضا صورة للحياة العامة وأحوال وتغيرات المجتمع مشوار عمر طويل في ظروف معيشية صعبة اجتماعيا وماديا
This book was a tribute to the Author's mother who raised him and his 11 siblings.
Through the telling of his Mother's life story we also learn the Author's story as well.
His mother never discussed the fact that she was White or Jewish instead telling him she was colorless and "the color of water".
His mother never talked about her life, her past, her color, or her family.
They may have had bumps along the way but they all made their way utilizing the life skills they learned from their Mother.This book was very, very good.
McBride's personal issues with his mother clouded her story, however, and his inability to emotionally separate from her enough to treat her as a character left me feeling that he bit off more than he could chew when he decided to write this "tribute".
Does McBride still think of her as he did when he was a small child?McBride divides this book a' la The Grapes of Wrath, with alternating chapters that are vignettes from Mommy's point of view and chapters that are a continuing story from his point of view.
The mere fact that this woman raised 12 children, sent them all to college and watched them become successful professionals, with no money, with no help from her own family members, really with not much at all except her belief in God and incredible courage; well, this qualifies her for sainthood in my book.
Throw in the fact that she was the daughter of a Rabbi who converted to Protestantism and you can see why this book has become a classic in just 20 years.James McBride is a pretty special guy himself.
"The Good Lord Bird" was one of my favorite books this year.
I am so thankful this book exists. As a child of a black father and a white mother, I was immensely drawn into the narrative of James MacBride's life. My story is not one as connected to the racism he encountered, but it nonetheless moved me considerably. He paints a tender, endearing, nuanced portrait of his mother and her life and times, and manages to take a deep and conflicting life story and not sink into maudlin recollection or saccharine moralism. An amazing tale.
My husband is black and he was raised by his white mother.
He has spoken about the conflict that he felt between his white and black side, especially when he was in the Army.
He felt very strongly for a long time that it was his duty to marry a black woman because he didn't want his children to feel the same conflict.
It was like a window into the life that in many ways my husband shared.
What astounded me though, was that my husband was raised by his white mother in an all white suburb and still his experiences were very similar.
What a beautiful and poignant read.
This is McBride's tribute to his white mother.
HIs story touches upon issues of racism, socioeconomics, identity and religion.
From a young age, McBride struggled to find where he fit into this world as a black man with a white mother.
At an early age, trying to find answers, he asked his mother what colour is God. Her response, "He is the color of water." The story is juxtaposed along with his mother's, with the challenges they both faced defining themselves.
A great read.
In fact, I have the Tenth Anniversary edition of this book and in the Afterword, McBridge tell us by the tenth anniversary over two million copies had sold worldwide, translated into more than twenty languages, serialized in the New York Times, and studied by thousands of students each year in literature, sociology, history and creative writing classes.What strikes me now, reading it twenty-two years later, is the parallel between James McBride’s white mother and Trevor Noah’s black one.
iIn his Afterword McBride tells us that may be the reason the work resonated so widely: more families than not have some mix somewhere in their family trees, and they relate strongly to this history.
The author tells his own story alongside his mother's.
Each tells their own story, reading as two first person narratives.
While there is probably no one that could not admire the author’s mother, that doesn’t mean you have to love the book!
I liked the book as much as I did because I came to understand the author’s mother.
The author when speaking of his mother calls her Mommy - throughout the entire book!
That there are two different narrators, one for the son and one for the mother, makes it much easier to listen to, much easier to immediately grasp who is speaking.
Everyone dies lonely and sick, after disowning everyone else.Daughter(white) runs off and marries another man (black) and fathers 12 children who practically starve as they grow up (father dies) and mother is too busy to raise them properly.
She never really DOES anything inspirational - in fact she refuses to talk to her kids about any important issues, and repeatedly tells them not to think too hard or their brains will dry out like prunes.
This would be better portrayed as a tribute to the kids themselves, for rising above their barren, neglectful upbringing.
this book spent two years on the new york times bestseller list and it's easy to see why.
mcbride's "tribute" is a beautiful story, rich with detail, about his own life and his mother's.
he smartly introduces almost every chapter with memories from his mother's life, in her own voice.
throughout the book, mcbride explores issues of race, class and gender through the lens of his own experiences and reflecting on his mother's experiences.
instead, we are given the stories of his and his mother's life journeys, complicated but much more satisfying than any neat answers.
This book made me feel lucky, lucky that James McBride and his mother were willing to share their story with the world. I wished I could be a family friend and get to know the characters event better. But since that isn't possible I'm glad that the author decided to write this memoir and share his family story so that people like me can experience it and learn from it.
إن لم تكن تعلم فلا بد أنك قرأت شيئا أو سمعت عن تلك المعضلة في زمن الستينات والسبعينات وما قبلهمامشكل
And that was crucial in her eventual move across the color line to "the black side." Note--In this book both Ruth and the author James McBride, one of her twelve children, use that language, as though it were the childhood game of "Red Rover, Red Rover--Send Ruthie right over." It's my thinking that a person--a child--will stay where he or she is loved.
And for him Judaism doesn't have that ubiquitous association with all the negatives it had acquired for his mother.In 1982 while on his process of exploration, the author traveled back to the southern town where Ruth had lived and worked in her father's grocery store before escaping that life.
When James McBride was a boy, he asked his mother whether God was black or white.
His mother, Ruth Jordan, was white: born the daughter of an Orthodox rabbi in Poland and raised in Virginia, she would over the years have two African-American husbands and raise 12 black children on the verge of poverty.
My view of the world is not merely that of a black man but that of a black man with something of a Jewish soul.”“Sometimes it seemed like the truth was a bandy-legged soul who dashed from one side of the world to the other and I could never find him.”
An amazing ,inspiring story of a white Jewish woman who married a black guy and raised 12 kids and sent them all to college. They all became doctors ,engineers professors leading successful lives. She had no money just her faith in God that helped her face all the hardships in life . A great memoir that will stay with me for a long time.
We read this in my book club, and the consensus was: Incredible story, incredible journey, and in the passages narrated by the voice of his mother, an incredibly moving and authentic voice.
However, this seems to suffer from its form/style - the author is trained as a journalist, and expanded an article he initially wrote about his mother and family into a book, and it reads journalistically instead of like a memoir.
You feel distant and collected when you want to feel wracked with the emotions, especially given what is happening in the story - a young man of mixed race in a huge family of 12 kids grapples with finding identity; his parents got together when mixed race couples were subject to physical violence for being together.
A interesting story that really made me reflect, and a GORGEOUSLY narrated audiobook.
I had to fight my emotions a little as to not get defensive about the language surrounding Jews in the story (tyrannical, abusive, extremely cheap Orthodox Jewish father who drove his children away), and *breathe*.
The audiobook quality is actually quite poor (it sounds like it was recorded ages ago, which it was), but the voices are excellent.
I actually thought it was the author and his mother speaking until I read otherwise.
They did a truly wonderful job, and the voices of the narrators sounded just like I pictured from the characters themselves.
It took years before I began to accept the fact that the nebulous 'white man’s world' wasn’t as free as it looked; that class, luck, religion factored in as well; that many white individuals’ problems surpassed my own, often by a lot; that all Jews are not like my grandfather and that part of me is Jewish too.
Unfortunately, Ruth’s experience with Jewish culture was mostly negative, so we don’t really get to see many of its positive aspects, but James is fair in his treatment of Jews in general and I was able to learn a lot anyway about Kosher and other Jewish customs.
Have you ever thought about not living with your real mom after being with her while you growing up all your life.
The book " The Color of Water" is about a teenage kid who thinks that hes not living with his real mother.
This kid has a lot of struggles in life he starts doing the wrong thing like dropping out of school and doding drugs which is not a good thing to do.
I think that the most important part of the book is when he decides to stop all the non sence hes doing.
لا يوجد لدي من الكلمات ما يعبر عما جعلني ذلك الكتاب أشعر به، كل ما استطيع أن أفعله هو أن اقترحه لك، ولتدعه يفعل بك ما يشاء. لا شيء لدي سوى أن أقتبس:"لم تَعُد لدي دموع لأذرفها فقد نفذت منذ زمن طويل، ولكن ألماً جديداً ووعياً جديداً قد ولِدا بداخلي"
"What color is God?" asks the young James of his mother, confused by all the white images of Jesus that surround him and his black father and mother.
Two voices complement each other in this moving narrative: Rachel, James' mother, writes about growing up and the Jewish family that ultimately rejected her, and James, her musician and composer son, who describes his own journey from the ghetto to middle class society.
Finally, after moving to Delaware, he discovered music in the hands of a talented white teacher at an otherwise all black school.
Rachel shrewdly used the busing system to have her children attend schools in neighborhoods where learning was a priority.
Follows the typical memoir formula: Someone lives through countless tragedies and unspeakable abuse from everyone and anyone they encounter, yet manage to be extraordinarily successful--which allows them to write a self-aggrandizing book about themselves.
In this case, McBride tells the story of his mother's incredibly hard life as a white Jewish woman growing up in the south, who marries a black man and ultimately raises 12 interracial children, mostly in a Brooklyn housing project in the 1960s and 1970s.
Every terrible thing you can imagine happens to this poor woman (sexual abuse, racial hatred, tragic deaths), yet all of her children grow up to be doctors and lawyers--a fact that is simplistically used as evidence of their successful lives.
كتاب لون الماء عبارة عن سيرتين ذاتية للكاتب الأسود جيمز ماكبرايد ووالدته اليهودية البيضاء .
بدأ الغموض المتوطن داخلي يتبخر، وزال الألم الذي شعر به الولد الصغير الذي حدّق في المرآة، لقد استيقظت إنسانيتي الخاصة.
But I was reminded of it this morning when I found it on my PageADay Book Lover's Calendar.
The following review is from that calendar.A beautifully rendered memoir, and a loving tribute to a mother who taught her son that the only identity that matters is the one you carve out for yourself.
She was in fact the daughter of an Orthodox Jewish rabbi who disowned her when she married a black man.THE COLOR OF WATER: A BLACK MAN’S TRIBUTE TO HIS WHITE MOTHER, by James McBride (1996; Riverhead, 2006)I recommend the THIS REVIEW by Eric_W Welch for a longer more complete review.
Rated 4 stars Read as memoir challenge for KUYH book club. A A black man's tribute to his amazing white mother who raised 12 successful and well educated children through much hardship and personal sacrifice. When as a child he asked his mother what color God was her reply was , " the color of water. " Hence the title of this inspiring read.
Onvan : The Color of Water: A Black Man's Tribute to His White Mother - Nevisande : James McBride - ISBN : 1573225789 - ISBN13 : 9781573225786 - Dar 291 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1996
The Color of Water is a memoir told in two very distinct and powerful voices. James McBride told the story about his white mother, raising her twelve mixed race children, caught (as the world was,) in the middle of the Civil Rights Movement, set primarily in New Jersey’s Red Hook Projects. His mother, Ruth, was proudly adhered in her unique ways, and loathe to talk about her past, steeped in Jewish folklore, traditions, and faith. We’d gather around the cans, open them, and spoon up the peanut b
James McBride told the story about his white mother, raising her twelve mixed race children, caught (as the world was,) in the middle of the Civil Rights Movement, set primarily in New Jersey’s Red Hook Projects.
It’s an incredibly profound story of racism and adapting to a constantly changing and inarguably mixed world.
The Color of Water is a book concerned with acceptance of the world, society and, perhaps most importantly, yourself.
I could only imagine how painful that must have been, having to leave the only real home she ever had at age seventeen, her mother gone, her father with a gentile woman, her brother in the war, her sister disappeared; being completely helpless as the pillars of her life fell away like toothpicks.
