https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1132348.Rutland_Place
Charlotte Pitt’s mother asks her to come to see her right away.
She confides that a locket was stolen – one that her mother-in-law (Charlotte’s paternal grandmother) had given her.
Eventually, Charlotte comes to realize why this small theft is so crucial to her mother.
Now both Thomas and Charlotte Pitt are wrapped up in the affairs of Rutland Place – Charlotte’s previous home area.
Emily, too, is drawn in as the sisters try to effect some influence on their mother and on their parents’ marriage.
A time when Charlotte and her sister Emily stand out as exceptions in the society they were born to.
I've asked myself while reading her books if murder must always have some dark and unsavory element behind it and I decided that it isn't unlikely, seeing that it IS murder we are discussing after all, which is a very dark subject.This novel is the 5th in Perry's Thomas and Charlotte Pitt series.
Charlotte is confronting her mother about her mother's infatuation and making the case that she doesn't really know the man and he doesn't really care about her either.
Especially since we live in a culture where we often mistakenly label infatuation and passion as "love", which is much deeper and less selfish in nature.
Having read a number of Pitt mysteries, I can honestly say this was not my favourite. Too much of the time was devoted to women at tea and idle chatter in drawing rooms. Life must have been incredibly dull for well to do ladies in the 19th Century. I much prefer those stories involving Thomas Pitt out in the streets trying to solve some grisly murder!!
Your tastes may run different but here are my favorite books by this author: The Cater Street Hangman, (I believe this is her first.), Buckingham Palace Gardens, or Death on Blackheath (These are from the Pitt series.
I loved these 2 so much I read them twice: Cain His Brother (Out of all the books I have read by her this one is totally twisted and psychologically somewhat horror bent- to me anyway.
I also read:Defend and Betray which also has a very twisted ending twice (The last 2 are of the William Monk Series.)
Can't really say why though.Charlotte's mother, Carolyn, has a missing necklace with a photo she does not wish anyone to see.
The photo is of someone other than her husband and she is afraid the person who has it will try to blackmail her with it.
Whil shee has done nothing wrong (this is just an infatuation) she knows everyone will think the worst of her.While Charlotte, her husband, sister and mother look for the necklace a young woman is murdered though the extablishment wants to call it suicide.
As they dig deeper they find that this woman holds many secrets most of which she uses to embarass or blackmail others.
Wouldn't we groan if Anne Perry only churned out cases, without acquaintance of chief characters, personal scenes, and heart?
She acknowledges the skill with which Charlotte assisted Thomas's police work.
When she feels concerned about a direction their Mother is taking, Charlotte summons Emily.
It is hilarious when, upon Charlotte's note, Emily races to her house by carriage and exclaims: “What?!” Her first thought is concern for family and secondarily, revelling in her own sleuthing skills.
Thomas belatedly becomes connected officially.It appears Anne burst with plotlines.
I had yearned to see Charlotte with her parents since she married and enjoyed the familial interaction greatly.
Maddock is the Ellison family butler who has been through quite a bit with the family.Of the neighbors in Rutland Place, there is Ambrosine (very eccentric) and Lovell Charrington (very uptight) with their remaining son Inigo who takes after Mama (their beloved daughter Ottilie died); the very critical and poking Mina and Alston Spencer-Brown; Eloise and Tormod Lagarde, an orphaned brother and sister; the spiteful Mrs. Amaryllis Denbigh is quite up in her own worth and dismisses anyone she feels is beneath her; and, Theodora von Schenck (Amaryllis' sister) is a widow with a great deal more money than previously.Monsieur Paul Alaric who lives in 
For me it's been the weakest in the series so far. But the atmosphere and the characters (both, main and recurring) are so well portrayed that I'll obviously read the following.
Rutland Place begins with a series of petty thefts, and escalates to bloody murder and a troubling denouement. Once again, Charlotte uses her upper-class family connections to dig out secrets that her policeman husband Thomas Pitt simply could not access.This is not a series to read for pace and suspense. Anne Perry is much more interested in the interior lives of her characters, and in probing the hypocrisy of the Victorians’ attitude to gender, class, and sexuality. The mysteries are always intriguing, nonetheless, and most importantly – it’s quite hard to guess the murderer!
I truly wanted to like this book. I love mysteries. I can't put my finger on why I didn't like it. Was it the he said she said dialogues that got to me or the lack of clear clues,or the slow moving very inactive plot? I began to enjoy the characters about 2/3 of the way through the book. Normally would have given up before then, but for some reason was compelled to know the ending. Weird, I know.
I liked some aspects of this, mainly the recurring characters of Thomas & Charlotte Pitt, but on the whole I found it insipid and silly, expecting us to care about a murder victim whom no one liked and to give a fig about the indiscretions of genteel neighbors? Spare us the madness of polite Society in Rutland Place and give us the teeming world of Victorian London any day!
This is the 5th book in the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt series of Victorian murder/mystery and my first review of her books.
However, I have enjoyed how Charlotte and Thomas' relationship from strangers to husband and wife has evolved through each of the books.
The other aspect of these stories is the great divide between the upper and lower classes and those in-between...the rigidness of society in general.As the book description states, Charlotte is asked by her mother for assistance in trying to find her missing locket.
However, as they receive and make calls on their neighbours of Rutland Place, she finds out that others are missing items as well.
Glad to read something out of my norm and try this Victorian mystery. Fun, interesting quick read and good glimpse into the social classes and mores of the day.
12/29/17 $1.99 for Kindle.
Now that I know the best way to understand her, I think I’ll need to read even more to decide if I like her work or not.I am beginning to get the feeling that these novels might be formulaic.
Anne Perry likes the manic murderer, especially those who are secretly or recently insane.
It stands to reason that those who commit murder for the most wicked of causes may also be the most prone to madness.
In the past two novels I’ve read, we end of with the deepest of sympathy for the murderer, realizing that desperate times really did drive them to desperate measures.
Charlotte Pitt is expecting her second child, but that provides no reason to stop her involvement in a crime.
Carolina, Charlotte's mother, has lost a locket.
The problem rests in the fact that the locket contains a picture of a man that is not her husband.
Wonders never cease in thinking a grandmother might still fall in love and act foolishly.
The story illustrates the conventions and limitations of English society.
Perry does a wonderful job in showing real people with real feelings and human foibles.
The men seem to play minor roles in the stories, whereas the women dig into secrets to reveal a decadent society.
This was my first Anne Perry book and also my last. I am a huge fan of Victoriana but the alleged "period detail" I have heard so much about was wholly lacking. The book was a short 220 pages but dragged interminably mainly due to boring and redundant dialogue. Most of the characters blurred together as none of them possessed enough individual dynamics to distingish one from another. By the end of the book I didn't care who done it. Perry's style is lackluster and devoid of emotion. Not recommended.
Charlotte Pitt's mother, Caroline, is hiding a secret and when there's a murder in Rutland Place where she lives, it's up to Charlotte to help not only her mother but also her husband, Thomas, who is called in to investigate. The structure of society and its rules dominate this Victorian mystery and the keen insights into mores and the period detail are fun to read. The unspoken assumptions among the upper classes make for intriguing mystery.
Continuing on with Perry's series set in Victorian England. At first I was only going to give this three stars, but then I realized that it took me to the end to solve the mystery. That's a good mystery. Besides, I like to read of the life and ways of this period.
My complaint is the same as with the previous books in the series - (1) too much extraneous verbiage in the beginning before the "plot unfolds" and (2) on the other hand, at the end of the book, the crime is solved and the book ends within a couple of paragraphs.
This is worth reading, if only for the image of Charlotte Pitt on the verge of being falling-down drunk on champagne. But, of course, there is a solid mystery here, as well and Perry's dependable characters.
Not her bestThis one wasn't quite up to par with the first four and there were several continuity errors (both series and within the book itself)
I may just have read too many of these in a row.
Another great book in the Charlotte and Thomas Pitt series.
Charlotte has been summoned by her mother to help her find a locket that has been stolen.
The locket is not valuable but the picture inside could cause Charlotte's mother to suffer a great damage to her reputation.
To make matters worse, it doesn't appear to be taken by a servant but more likely by a neighbor.
Charlotte must figure out how to prevent her mother from ruining her marriage and find a thief and maybe a killer before too much damage is done.
Glad I have more books to look forward to in this series.
When reading books in the Charlotte & Thomas Pitt series by Anne Perry I feel like the mystery is just a way to look into human nature.
When one of the women dies and that death is soon discovered to be murder, Charlotte and Thomas, and Charlotte’s sister Emily, take a closer look into this little neighborhood to solve the mystery and save their family.
Rutland Place is about the mystery of the stolen items and the murder but I felt like those were a way to look at secrets and what secrets do not only to us but to those around us.
Well-the series has grown on me...I enjoyed this entry (#5) and the fact that Charlotte's mom and sister were featured.
I hope that continues in the next book!"London’s most unusual sleuthing team, Inspector Thomas Pitt and his wife, Charlotte, just cannot seem to stay away from trouble.
When Charlotte learns of her mother’s distress in losing a locket with a compromising picture, she has no idea that it’s just the beginning of a series of bizarre events that will end in sudden death.
But the dangerous persistence of Charlotte and the quiet patience of Inspector Pitt will make it possible to unwind this most macabre and chilling mystery."
As always , five gold stars.Anne Perry never fails to be worthy of a top score.It is truly amazing how Anne Perry can set her scene and include very similar characters and from the limited ingredients produce a totally original mix of perverse thought and behaviour hidden by the restricted facade of late Victorian manners , morals and terror of scandalInspector Pitt , as always , tenacious yet sensitive resolves another crime , revealing what needs to be revealed while concealing details that are best forgotten.
These stories are often full of such deep, dark emotion under an all-too-thin veneer of civility. I don't know if my rating is as much for the story as the era's heartlessness in the face of social acceptability versus human feeling. If nothing else, the series can be thought provoking, with insights that filter, sometimes uncomfortably so, into modern "sensibilities." I find that I am coming to appreciate Emily more, and found this installment's venture into the family dynamics of Charlotte and Emily and their parents illuminating.
I continue to enjoy these mysteries as a nightstand book; however, the endings are still too abrupt and this one overly dramatic. It is enough that Tormad and his sister are lovers ( which began when she was 13 as their parents were dead) That was ample reason for her to hate him and literally throw him under the carriage. I didn’t need the added motivation that he had forced her to have an abortion. It became pretty clear that Tormad was our killer. Not certain we needed the sensational twist of abortion.
Well, finally we get back to Charlotte's parents and involve them in this plot. Interesting book and plot, and enjoyed it a lot. I have one minor problem with the series so far, the characters are hard to keep track of and who is murdering who, who is having an affair with which other characters, and so on. It is almost so complex I need to keep notes to follow the plot and who is involved. To much detail for a fun read on an afternoon.
