https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6058.The_Road_Back
The last combats and skirmishes… Peace is nearing… However death still keeps doing its dire work… And the dread doesn’t let go.“Gas shells!” shouts Willy, springing up.We are all awake now and listening intently.Wessling points into the air.
Two wings and away.”The war is over and the road back home lies ahead… For those who have managed to deceive death and survive.The wide, grey square is much too big for us.
The wide, empty square about us wakes woeful memories.
These others here are still our comrades, and yet our comrades no longer – that is what is so sad.
This novel is the sequel to Remarque's most famous All Quiet on the Western Front.
It is a collective portrait of the returning soldiers from the Great War who failed to reckon with the make-believe peace that followed.
The experience at the front shattered them from the rest of the world.
This is no longer our world; the trenches ousted it.
The loss of comradeship, mostly due to the divisive force of revolution, also featured as a major source of despair.
I expected to gain more historical information about post-war Germany from this novel which it didn't offer, but still a traumatizingly superb read.
They grieve for lost comrades who won't be returning with them but anticipate the joy of being back with friends and family, of returning, finally, to their old lives.When peace finally does arrive, they head home anticipating a hero's welcome; instead, they are met with indifference and lack of understanding.
When they marched away to war, they were just boys, hardly more than children, with all the hopes and innocent dreams of youth; they have returned as men, old before their time, damaged physically and psychically and they no longer fit into this civilized world.Nothing is the same for them and they feel lost and betrayed.
Mi guardano tanto fiduciosi, con tanta devozione, che mi provocano un colpo al cuore.Eccomi davanti a voi, uno dei centomila falliti ai quali la guerra ha infranto ogni fede e quasi ogni energia...
Sono davanti a voi e mi rendo conto di quanto siete più vivi e più legati alla vita.
Sono davanti a voi e dovrei esservi maestro e guida.
Ma che cosa vi devo insegnare?
Che cosa devo insegnarvi, piccole creature, a voi, le uniche che siete rimaste pure in questi anni terribili?
As always with EMR, what's triggered completism, there are moments of extreme vividness, up there with Prince Andrei on his back looking at blue sky, Proust's elevating airplane, Leopold Bloom's kidney sliding in his frying pan, Bartlebooth's watercolors returning to the ocean, etc: in this, it's a war veteran sheep dog named Wolf fighting with the farmer's bulldog Pluto and then later doing what he's been bred to do, excelling at herding sheep although he was raised on the battlefield (Wolf's road back is hard-wired); or when the comrades run to the square with their "faces of the trench" as the military led by a former comrade threatens to turn a machine gun on a crowd of labor protestors led by a former Jewish comrade; or a scene at an official military-sanctioned brothel when Ernst the narrator loses his virginity; the classroom scene when the young veteran students revolt against the principal's fine phrases of heroism and again at the end the courtroom scene when the comrades rise up against the judge and lawyer in defense of their friend's murder of a man who'd been macking on a woman who'd been his only beacon through it all.
Familie, Nachbarn, Lehrer verstehen nicht den Zustand, in dem sich die Rückkehrer befinden und der sie quält ("Es ist alles umsonst, Ernst.
Wie es Remarque so trefflich in einer Freitodszene formuliert "Das Schweigen beginnt zu reden." -Es ist ein wichtiges Buch und die notwendige wie gelungene Fortsetzung von "Im Westen nichts Neues".
Während Ernst und seine Kameraden vor einem Waldstück sitzen, durchstößt plötzlich eine Gruppe minderjähriger Jungen das Gebüsch und übt Krieg, angeleitet von einem Erwachsenen, den er wiederholt als "Führer" betitelt.Ich ziehe erneut meinen Hut vor diesen großartigen Schriftsteller.
The Road Back: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...I am quite astonished that The Road Back is much less known than its famous prequel All Quiet on the Western Front.
For me The Road Back is a heartbreaking story, that left me crying myself quietly to sleep in the middle of the night.
In All Quiet on the Western Front Erich Maria Remarque was not quite himself – the author I know for dissecting human relationships and for philosophizing about life and love.
In The Road Back Erich Maria Remarque is again the author I fell in love with.
Read more: http://readwithstyle.wordpress.com/20...
This is the sequel to All Quiet on the Western Front, and it may be more quietly powerful. There are some of the snippets of gruesome battle scenes, but this book that takes place after World War I shows the soldiers disillusioned with the war's purpose, alienated from their friends and life before the war and adrift when they try to resume their lives at home. Trained as soldiers in a brutal war, they have a hard time finding their place in society and find themselves missing the camaraderie of their fellow soldiers.
So zeigt sich etwa Ernsts Mutter schockiert über den Schimpfwortgebrauch ihres Jungen und seinen Zigarettenkonsum, sodass sie dem Sohn von vornherein die Möglichkeit nimmt, mit ihr über die wahren Schrecken des Krieges zu reden.
Während einige Figuren Erlösung schließlich nur noch im Freitod finden, gelangt Ernst nach einem schweren Nervenzusammenbruch am Ende des Textes zu einem desillusionierten, aber gleichzeitig hoffnungsvollen Blick in die Zukunft.
Kaum ein Text hat mich in letzter Zeit so beeindruckt und berührt wie Remarques "Der Weg zurück".
[...]Kein Mensch im Saal zweifelt daran, einen bisher unbekannten Meister des Überfoxtrotts vor sich zu sehen.Zusammenfassend: 5 Sterne und eine dicke Leseempfehlung von mir.
Through the warm dark of the earth it is flowing with the meaning of crystals and quartzes, it is in the secret sound of the weight with which drops sink down among the roots and assemble to thin runnels in search of the springs.
moist silver vapour the sun draws up again to the clouds—it circles and circles, it takes ever more and more of me with it and empties it into the earth and underground streams; the chest sinks and collapses, the arms fall away, slowly and without pain the body disappears; it is gone; now only the fabric, only the husks remain.
Having read AQOTWF, I was wondering how Remarque would handle the next two books especially given the ending of the first, but as Frances Hodgson Burnett talked about how she expanded on her short story which blossomed into "A Little Princess" by character becoming known which were in the first but some mentioned others did not tap Remarque on the shoulder until his second story.
You can see the mistakes of the future coming because we know them but living it as he did he saw and experienced it, it is wonderful when modern writers can bring forth a great historical fiction novel but I get chills when I read books from the past especially when they are writing of events of their times.
The Road Back poignantly captures the difficult task returned soldiers face of reintegrating into society after years of war.
Many of the characters in the novel went to war during the later stages of their formative years and know very little of the life outside of the trenches.
I think this is ultimately dangerous and perhaps these fanatics who 'pilgrimage' to Gallipoli should read Remarque, Graves, Owen, Sassoon, Barbuesse and realise that the there was nothing noble or glorious about the pointless slaughter of the First World War.
This was the volume that followed All Quiet on the Western Front. The German soldiers were not victorious. Look for similarities with American soldiers returning home from Viet Nam.
Another Remarque classic, another one of the Greatest novel I've read. This is THE ABSOLUTE PERFECT followup there can be to the epical greatness of the story of All Quiet on the Western Front. A must read for anyone who ever heard of World War 1/2, or ever had a friend, or just ever read even a single book!
I learned a lot of this time period from one who was there.The author's writing at times is sharp and jarring, and at others flows like pure water; as if Remarque himself was slipping between the hallucinatory world of the war and what it had done to him, and the romantic, idealistic educated young man he once was, as he wrote of these young comrades home from one hell into another kind of hell.There were many parts of this book where I just wanted to weep at the psychological damage done to these men and the walking wounded of a returned generation.Many scenes stand out in my mind but one in particular, a scene from later in the book: a march of returned soldiers who have come home only to find poverty, penury, and a world no longer valuing them or the sacrifice they made.
While AQ focused on men in the trenches during WWI and the horror they faced, The Road Back tells of the same men as they return to their old homes.Many of these guys went off to the war while they were still boys, full of piss and vinegar and patriotism.
As they lived the horrors described in AQ for 3 or 4 years, everything at home went on as if they hadn't left.
I am told that the third of this "trilogy" by Remarque Three Comrades is also very good so I will seek it out and read that as well.
It's so intense, so powerful and dramatic (not melodramatic), that I simply wasn't able to concentrate on anything while I still had some pages left to read.It's been six years since the last time I read All Quiet on the Western Front, which still remains one of my favourite books, and only a couple of months ago I started to wonder whether Erich Maria Remarque had written any more books.
It is also a very interesting portrait of German society after the war and it gives an intuition of what happened later.Anyway, great book, the best I've read this year so far.
đọc một hồi sao thấy quen quen, đọc thim hồi nữa nhớ ra là giống dead poets society đó, à hông, chắc phim đó giống truyện này mới phải, mà phim đó sao ha, mình cũng không nhớ nữa =)))thặc ra bạn remarque tủi nhỏ bị bịnh rắc múi tiu...
(rắc thị phạm)...
(rắc múi tiêu cho nó deep coi)ò, thường nghĩ một trăm năm sau tôi vẫn muốn sinh ra trên đời làm bà tiên, đến tặng cho tất cả thiếu niên ngày xưa một điều ước :D
Outside Germany, everyone knows Remarque's All Quiet on the Western Front, but few people are aware of his other novels, which is a pity, because some of them are terrific, particularly those set in the turbulent Germany of the twenties.
Remarque continued to write until his death in 1970, his novels reflecting an active life that saw him leave Germany in the thirties and live in exile, eventually settling in New York and becoming a U.S. citizen.
While the political turmoil that would lead to the rise of the Nazis forms the background, the novel is mainly concerned with the devastating effect of war on young lives.
Възможно най-доброто описание на тази книга е началото на "На Западния фронт нищо ново": "Тази книга не е нито обвинение, нито изповед.
Някои се връщат при родителите си, други при съпругите си, но никой не може да разбере какво всъщност са преживели и се случва в момента в мислите им.
Основното нещо, което ги държеше силни по време на войната - приятелството им - вече го няма и доста често трябва да се борят с демоните си сами.
Of all the prose writers I have yet read, none can surpass Remarque.
No writer I have encountered understands the human condition as deeply as he does.
For Remarque's characters, life is a symbiosis; death and loss on the one hand, camaraderie and one's ability to enmesh oneself in the wonder of nature, with all its hopeful, healing potential, on the other.
Ultimately though, it is an authentic tale of survival and a magnificent testament to human fragility, friendship and endurance.
Lối về nào cho những người lính bị chiến tranh tàn phá hết tình yêu và những giấc mơ?
Một tác phẩm xúc động kể về sự vật lộn của những người lính đã trải qua những năm tháng đầu đời trong chiến tranh và rồi bị đẩy ngược lại cuộc sống thường nhật, nhưng vốn dĩ đã trở nên quá xa lạ với họ.
Remarque viết về chiến tranh qua góc nhìn của những người vô-quốc-tính để ta hiểu rằng cái giá của chiến tranh và hận thù lớn như thế nào cho bất cứ ai tham gia, dù thắng cuộc hay thua cuộc, dù chính nghĩa hay phi chính nghĩa.
Hình ảnh ông khắc dòng chữ "Brooks was here" trên xà nhà rồi sau đó treo cổ tự tử trong chính căn phòng mà chính quyền bố trí cho ông sau khi ra tù, quả thật rất ám ảnh mình khi đó.Những người lính trong Đường về dường như cũng giống như vậy thôi, bởi đã có lúc, họ đã có ý nghĩ sẽ đăng lính để được trở lại mặt trận, thay vì trở về nhà - nơi mà họ không thuộc về.
Its protagonist, Paul Baumer, is an idealistic German soldier fighting for his country, not some savage slacked on the blood of the poor Belgiums.The Road Back, on the other hand, takes the story out of the trenches and transfers it to civilian life.
As Ernst observes later on about life in peacetime:We are like those abandoned fields full of shell holes in France, no less peaceful than other ploughed lands about them, but in them are lying still the buried explosives, and until these shall have been dug out and cleared away, to plough will be a danger both to plougher and ploughed.The Road Back is a story of soldiers gamely trying to assimilate into a society ambivalent towards them.
Some books aren't just books. They're something else. Something that hit you so hard and cry out loud, "well? Are you feeling me?"And you certainly do not just read them, so you just say, "Yeah, I do feel you."
There is something to he said about the brilliance of a writer that can horrify and enrapture you with their writing. Remarque is and will forever be a literary giant that current day authors just can't hope to achieve. A must read.
3+
Buồn và bế tắc 😥
Geen 5 * zoals "Van het westelijk front geen nieuws" want daar was ik echt van omver geblazen. Dit "vervolg" scoort wel een dikke 4, en als je een impressie wil over wat bedoeld wordt met Lost Generation, dit is een excellente kandidaat .
The Road Back by Erich Maria Remarque follows German soldiers returning home from losing WW1. It describes the struggles and food shortages, political unrest and inflation that the soldiers face, as long as the shell shock from their time spent in the trenches.Remarque uses brilliant words and symbolism to describe the hardships that the soldiers experienced. At first he uses peaceful words to describe surrender and words that really hit home the struggle of the soldiers.
