https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154808.Superman
Superman is born again for a new generation! I bought this in its single comic book issues, but I chosen this TPB edition to be of making a better overall review.This TPB collects “The Man of Steel” #1-6.Creative Team:Writer & Illustrator: John ByrneInks: Dick Giordano THE FIRST SUPER-HERO IS TOLD ONCE AGAIN Since the creation of Superman in 1938, it’s not like his origin had been the same, since once a while, here and there, creative teams added their own visions and details to the foundat
Since the creation of Superman in 1938, it’s not like his origin had been the same, since once a while, here and there, creative teams added their own visions and details to the foundations of the first super-hero ever, forging a new kind of genre.However, it was pretty much the same history for Superman since his creation as comic book character until 1986, until THE crisis……the Crisis on Infinite Earths came and DC wasn’t the same anymore since its even before it was a sole company.It wasn’t 1938 anymore and the readers had outgrown even the Silver Age style of storytelling.It was necessary to evolve, to update the whole run of titles in DC Comics……and it was needed to do it for The Man of Steel.It was a job for John Byrne!!!His vision of how the Last Son of Krypton would be able to function in the 80s was so solid, so inspired, that even nowadays, after two more reboots of DC Comics and even a newer origin’s story, you still can catch seeds of Byrne’s vision in the new versions of Superman and his world of action.
While Frank Miller reinvented Batman and George Perez mythologized Wonder Woman, John Byrne, a Marvel writer, did something...readable.This book is 30 years old.
In fact, Crisis is as far back as my reading goes.
But I feel like those nearly 400 pages adequately acquainted me with Supes, and I don't remember him being this...Shy?
It just feels like Byrne is forcing the "romance" on the reader.
Oddly enough I like Clark Kent.
Must be the Ls. John Byrne also doesn't know Batman.
The one thing everyone knows about Batman is that he never, ever kills because of his damn origin story.
Byrne doesn't know Bats.
As a writer, he creates anew a Superman for our age who believes in morality and wonders what he can do.
Bryne wisely avoids the mistake of many writers and makes Krypton as ambigeous as possible.
Bryne's run on Superman was about his confronting this myth and finding what works, you can see this on a small scale in this series.
YOu can really see all the hard work he will poor into this, which will become Bryne's greatest disappointment, as you read it all the wonderful ideas will become apparent that Bryne was never able to play on, and that others would.
Man of Steel is an interesting and educational read for sure, but I didn’t fall in love with this take on the character. Byrne’s origin feels simplistic, cold and sterile, and not really resembling anything I’ve grown to know and love about Superman. It’s very readable and visually pretty for its time, but as a straight up origin story I still prefer books by Waid, Morrison or Johns over this.
This book is definitely dated but, you know what, I kinda dug it.
This series is what now days would be considered a pretty standard Origin Story, but at the time it was obviously very new.
Story was like I said pretty standard, it had some stand out moments though, like a proper iteration of Lois Lane(Many comics don't write her properly in my opinion), and a pretty cool issue where Superman meets Batman for the first time, however my only gripe with that issue, is that while I was reading it I was thinking less "This a job for Superman!" and more "NAH NAH NAH NAH NAH BATMAN!", so ya Batman stole the show a bit there.
But otherwise a pretty decent Superman read, not the greatest one I've ever read, but far from the worst!
John Byrne's classic 1986 reboot of the character is a surprisingly good read. I was expecting a full-on cheese-fest (and to an extent that is what I got) but it's also enjoyable and fun. A comic book that's aged like fine wine! Full review here!
Despite the fact that this book completely hit the reset button on Superman's origin story, it was so well done that there is very little if any room for complaint.
Not a bad Superman origin. I don't know why DC kept changing the canon origin of Superman as there are three different pre new 52 canon Superman origin stories.
A perfectly fine and readable reboot of Superman to bring him into the modern times (In the 80's). I enjoyed the story with Bizarro and I liked the introduction to Magpie (I'm about 99% sure this was her debut but correct me if I'm wrong). The artwork looks like what everything since has been based on as to how Superman and Lois Lane etc look so it was definitely a defining moment, just not my favourite style of art.
This is where Superman started for me back in the 80s. I think the Justice League/Super friends cartoon ended and I was looking for more and found the DC. I recently spotted a copy in a bookstore and gave it another read. It doesn't hold up to modern day Superman but it was still enjoyable (except for Lois)
My personal favourite version of Big Blue's origin story, Byrne nailed the innocence, hope, and wonder that encapsulates exactly what Superman is supposed to stand for, and his pencils are just as fresh and delightful to the eye as they were when I first read the biweekly issues back when I was a kid.
There's some good stuff, and some other stuff that makes it apparent this book is 27 years old.This Superman has some seriously sanctimonious moments where he tries to put Batman in jail, then figures out Batman's Gotham is no Metropolis.Also, this Lex Luthor is the ridiculous Redheaded Tubby one that is kind of hard to take seriously, even though he's the bad guy.Lois here is 80s woman at it's best, tough, high-fashion, yuppie to the max (also seriously hot, which is strange to say...)I didn't care for the last issue (#6) where it seemed like Byrne ran out of time from DC and had to cram a whole lot into the final issue of the miniseries.I also didn't love the whole Rah-Rah American parts, but then again...Late Cold War Era...Reagan was still president when this came out!The art is solid Byrne, which I remember from the Superman I read as a kid in the late 80s.
With the upcoming (*shudder*) DC Comics everything-and-the-kitchen-sink reboot, it cleanses the palate to look back at John Byrne's relaunch of Superman, post-Crisis on Infinite Earths, back in the misty dawn of history, circa 1985. It's an origin story that strips Superman down to his most successful, basic characteristics...but loses none of his gravitas or back-story elements. It's fabulous stuff, and it breaks my heart to think it's all be chucked into the dustbin. Ahh...for simpler, happier days..
When DC chose to revamp it's characters in the 1980s, they went to one of the best writers and artists in the business for their most well known character. John Byrne's retelling of Superman's origin and early years is almost pitch perfect in every regard, grounding the character and refreshing him at the same time. This is the version that existed until the New 52 revamp in 2011 and is the one I find most appealing of all the iterations of this character. Must read for comic book fans.
Good looking if sometimes odd reboot of the man of steel.
I know many fans will find this 1986 version of Superman's origin story cheesy, but I like a little cheese with my superhero stories, they take me back to my childhood when everything did not have to be so dark and meta. Byrne's art in this book is perfection with his version of Superman being my definitive artistic representation (his Lex and Lois- not so much)!
Sad day.) I also have a few other comic books from the 80's and early 90's that I picked up here and there (this particular miniseries being part of that), and I'll be happy to educate you on those as well.Before The Man of Steel miniseries:DC rebooted everything around 1986 which is when this story came out and started everything fresh in the "Modern Age" of comics, but more on that later.
Years ago, a friend shoved a copy of the collector's edition first issue of this Superman reboot into my hands and said I should make it part of my comic book collection.
(In fact, I may not have read it on the off chance that I'd bend the spine and decrease the collect-ability value of the comic in question).Reading this six-issue reboot of Superman thirty plus years later, I'm impressed by how big an influence it had on just about every version of Superman that's appeared in pop culture since that time.
His work exudes an incredible understanding of visual composition for someone drawing strong men in tights, especially at a time when superhero comics were already becoming something more than just a medium for pulpy children's tales and his reboot of Superman is no exception.
He does a wonderful job of staying true to the character's roots and not trying to go the "grim and gritty" direction that contemporary comics like Alan Moore's Watchmen or Frank Miller's Batman: Year One did.
His exposition is pretty groan worthy at times, especially when you look at the previously mentioned comics Frank Miller and Alan Moore were doing.
My son picked this out for me at the library.
He has picked up my habit of recommending books to everyone, so now I see how it might be viewed as irritating rather than a great gift bestowed by my superior, benevolent intelligence.
But it is very cute when he hands a book to me and says, "Here, Dad. I got this one for you." So we went out to dinner and read our new library books.
Great stories and art, especially Lois Lane's 80's shoulder pads.
Very pleasant read for hanging out with the boy.
Um bom livro de uma coleção que ninguém sabe qual será o rumo...Enfim, temos aqui bem no início as feições de uma mãe Lara aflita a cada frase de Jor-El...
Os traços físicos são bem condizentes com um quadrinho antigo; a ideia do símbolo no peito é um pouco diferente do que conhecemos; no capítulo 3, uma aventura na cidade de gárgulas nos prédios.Lex Luthor parecido com Gene Hackman?!
A quem pertence Metropolis?No capítulo 5, Superman enfrenta um espelho...
e a história finaliza com umamensagem bucólica quanto à humanidade do Super-Homem.Citação de Kal'El: "Santa Mãe de Deus!"
This book to me is the iconic Superman story.
Byrne's artwork has never looked better, and some of his Superman splash pages are as good as I ever ever seen Supes drawn.
Lex and Lois are pitch-perfect, too.
This run is the true beginning of the Lois that I adore, the modern Lois Lane who is one of my favorite characters in all of comics.
Also, I thought the trades did a wonderful job of recoloring the issues.The blue and red absolutely POP.
Note: The other two iconic Superman stories for me are: Absolute All-Star Superman by Morrison and Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow by Moore.
Estoy puntuando el primero porque no hay una colección completa subida a Goodreads, pero la reseña va para el conjunto.El tomo es bastante disfrutable, me gustan los cambios, aunque los diálogos a menudo son enormemente tontos. Algunas de las viñetas son completamente brillantes y tiene escenas bastante graciosas.
Uma das versões mais clássicas da origem do Superman. Os desenhos de John Byrne são excelentes, gosto principalmente do design doa kryptonianos. A história é bem competente e dá pra entender a importância dela para definir o que seria o Superman após a Crise nas Infinitas Terras, por outro lado algumas coisas não envelheceram bem para o leitor dos dias de hoje.
John Byrne is a great storyteller, and maybe one day I'll have the time and patience to enjoy a good story, then I'll reread this. But my patience has a limit.
Book Info: This collection contains  The Man of Steel  issues #1-6.ABSOLUTE RATING: {1.5/5 stars} (Rounded Up)STANDARDIZED RATING: <1/5 stars>(Note: About 1-1.5 stars were deducted from this book based on age-related characteristics, which are outlined in the postscript. My main review will focus on other failings.)Like both Waid's Birthright and Zack Snyder's recent Superman reboot, The Man of Steel begins on Krypton –Superman's doomed homeworld – as Jor-El and Lara solemnly accept their
When the planetary crust begins to erupt all around them, Jor-El and Lara intimately hold one another close for the first and last time, clinging to the faint hope that Krypton's last son will continue their legacy by succeeding on Earth where their race had failed – much like Noah started anew and redeemed humanity after the great flood.Fast-forward eighteen years, and we find Clark Kent – the same Kryptonian infant sent by his alien parents – as a star football player at Smallville High.
From there, the remaining chapters (i.e. two through six) cover the five plus years Clark spends in Metropolis – where he meets the charming Daily Planet reporter Lois Lane – and also features appearances from Batman, Lex Luthor, and Bizarro.To begin, I think I'll discuss how poor a Superman/Clark Kent Byrne writes here.
When I had first read it, I was skeptical of the revamp and later saw it necessary due to the impact of the success of Crisis of Infinite Earths.
I have decided to re-read it again since this year is the 80th anniversary of Superman.
Although there are later interpretations of the origin stories such as Superman:Birthright, Superman:Secret Origin and volume one of the Superman:Earth One Series, this remains my personal favorite.
This volume is also a great introduction to Superman for those who are new fans and those returning after many years absent.
A strong retelling of Superman's origins and early days.
Straightforward, fun, a little cheesy and full of heart, this rendition carries everything a Superman reader loves about the character.
This is a Superman to look up to and he's likeable in many ways.
Even the Lex Luthor in this rendition embodies all the elements that are still used in the best portrayals of the character.
If you like Superman and would like a classic, more straightforward (but still excellent) version of his character you will enjoy this volume.
It's unfair to write a review so long after the initial release of this work. At the time, it was a landmark, and Byrne did a great job of rethinking and streamlining the Superman mythos. However, today Man of Steel is quaint at best and crude at worst. Unlike Miller or Moore, Byrne's work hasn't aged well.
