https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2547.The_Prophet
Now that I'm reading The Prophet again, words that I read twenty-seven years ago still ring clearly in my mind as I read them again today.
It was a wonderful moment a few evenings ago to find myself reciting aloud and from memory passages that had struck me then--and now--to the very core.
Kahlil Gibran spent a couple of years revising The Prophet.
Since it is a short book, the concepts come across as distilled.
The influences of his native Lebanon as well as his love for scripture, come through in the scriptural-like language.
I am savoring this book slowly this time, taking little sips at a time.
ولا تقل في ذاتك : قد وجدت الحق بل قل بالأحرى : قد وجدت حقا♥،♥،♥،♥،♥،♥الحب لا يعطي إلا من نفسه، ولا ي
أعتقد أنها ستكون أروع شئ قرأته وسأقرأه عن الأنسانية والحب والعطاء والحكمة كتاب رائع يستحق الاقتناء وقرائته أكثر من مرة أبدع ثروت أباظه في ترجمته ويكأنه علي لسان عربي وليس بمترجم أشد المقطوعات أثارت أعجابيفي المأكل والمشرب وحين تنحر ذبيحتك ناجها في سريرتك قائلا:"إن الفدرة التي تذبحك هي نفسها...
تذبحني؛وأنا مثلك مصيري الفناء.فإن الناموس الذي أسلمك إلى يدي سوف يسلمني إلى يد أشد بأسا.وحين تقضم التفاحة بين اسنانك،ناجها قائلا:"لسوف تحيا بذورك في جسدي، وتزهر براعم غدك في قلبي، ويصبح عبيرك أنفاسي؛ومعا نبتهج على مر الفصول".

It was a great way to experience spirituality and romance as a teenager, but as I got older, its lusty descriptions of the true meaning of love, marriage, and life just seem like pretty, but shallow, wordplay.Now, don't write to me and prove me wrong on this, because I like the idea very much.
I believe that Khalil Gibran was quite the player.
The Prophet has a seductive tone that avoids making any concrete statements, which is the strategy used by career players (see SNL's The Ladies' Man).Nonetheless, I still recommend everyone read The Prophet.
لم أكن أفهم وقتها ما السلفية و ما علاقتها بهجر المكتبة التي كان يلتصق بها و كأنه جنين في بطن أمه واضعا فراشه و مكتبه و كل حياته فيها منذ أن وعيته حتى نهاية تلك اللحظة التي أعطانى فيها مفتاح غرفة المكتبة التي كانت مهجورة منذ سنوات و انا ما زلت في منتصف العقد الثانى قائلا لى هي لك بكل ما فيها.أرى نظرات الحسد في عيون البعض الأن و خصوصا بعد أن فتحت الباب فوجدتها مكدسة بأعداد من مجلات العربى و فصول في الأدب و النقد و عالم المعرفة و مجموعة كاملة من كتب طه حسين طبعة دار المعارف و بعض الكتب لأنيس منصور و احسان عبدالقدوس و طه حسين و الشعراوى و محمد عبدالحليم عبدالله.وجدتنى أصيح كعلى بابا عندما دخل المغارة و أقول أحمدك يا ربعزمت على البدأ بكتاب دينى تبركا بهذا اليوم المشهود و لتكن فاتحة خير لقراءة موفقة و لفرط سذاجتى اخترت هذا الكتاب فقط لأن عنوانه هو النبى.
Despite your religious views, be they absent or strong, Gibran has given us a work of beauty that proves, to me at least, that faith is not necessary to be good and right.A favorite quote from the book:"Fill each other's cup but drink not from one cup.Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf.Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone,Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music."Lee

I decided to read his opus The Prophet, which is awe inspiring poetry written in novella form.
Gibran's philosopher Al-Mustafa has traveled by boat to visit the Orphalese people and speak words of wisdom to them.
Almitra becomes especially enamored in Al-Mustafa's teachings and either hangs onto or collaborates with him in his words as he wows the Orphalese with both his wisdom and knowledge.
Gibran's words translated into English are like reading any religion's scriptures and flow like the honey of the Middle East.
It is of little wonder that Almitra and her people would become enamored with the words of Al-Mustafa.
I don't know if I can write this review.
I also don't know if I have the words.Reading this book was both devastating and awe-inspiring.
I was moved beyond words, particularly when I started reading it, started to let the words wash over me, when I realized how familiar they were, not the words, but the meanings behind them.
It felt like something I'd been swimming in my whole life and never realized it.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
There is also a universal spirituality that doesn’t succumb to the pressure of organized dogma that makes of this short fable a classic that might appeal to any reader regardless of his present, absent or muddled religious beliefs.The roundness of the last chapter reminds me of the serene wisdom of the ancient aphorisms in The Tao Te Ching because it allows multiple interpretations that don’t compete against each other: philosophy and mysticism go hand in hand along the natural cycle of existence rather than being at odds in constant disparity of visions that often lead to uncertainty, and eventually, to corroding guilt.
As the great Prophet has done before me, I shall tear off the shroud of mystic truth which has become my body and mind and shed it upon the streets where the needy walk, so that they might find compassion and knowledge in the tattered cloth of my foolish youth.
For the Prophet offers his own words as truth for others and in turn so shall I lay the same trap, in the hope that the darkness in which I wrap you shall make you forge your own dagger with which to cut yourself free from the books you once called teachers.
I love you when you bow in your mosque, kneel in your temple, pray in your church. For you and I are sons of one religion, and it is the spirit*Say not, 'I have found the truth,' but rather, 'I have found a truth.' Say not, ' I have found the path of the soul.' Say rather, 'I have met the soul walking upon my path.' For the soul walks upon all paths. The soul walks not upon a line, neither does it grow like a reed. The soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals*Your children are not
They are the sons and ‎daughters of Life's longing for itself*Let there be spaces in your togetherness, And let the winds ‎of the heavens dance between you.
Sing and dance together and be ‎joyous, but let each one of you be alone, Even as the strings ‎of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music.
For only ‎the hand of Life can contain your hearts.
Love has ‎no other desire but to fulfil itself‏.‏*But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be ‎your desires: To melt and be like a running brook that sings ‎its melody to the night.
The Prophet by Khalil Gibran is a short but invaluable book of philosophy and encouragement.
You will be free when your life is surrounded by these things and you raise yourself above them, nude and with constraint." (p.63)"Because it is the morning dew of little things in which the heart finds its morning and refreshes itself." (p.76)"And for the two, bee and flower, to give and to receive, the pleasure is a need and a boundless joy." (p.90)The book is filled with hundreds of beautiful quotes such as these which are useful to nourish the soul beset by the crises that we are living through at any moment in our lives.
It's the story of Almustafa, the Prophet, who is departing the city of Orphalese after a 12 year visit. But before he leaves, before he boards the ship that will return him to his homeland, he is asked by the residents of the city to enlighten them on a variety of subjects that deal with life and life's issues. You will find wisdom, compassion, love, friendship, teaching, and maybe best of all, beauty. This book is a virtual roadmap for how to live your life to complete fulfillment.
Maybe I didn't take enough time with it, but seemed to me to be so heavily focussed on balance and contradictions that it didn't make any extreme proclamations.
My reaction might also be coming off Thoreau which is beautiful to read, but also has intense philosophy behind it.
I think this book is more like looking at something beautiful but not particularly deep.
I think I will take the book back to maine and re-read it there on a mountain or on the beach and think about it in that context and then maybe it will have a deeper effect...if I ever make it back to maine.
يلقِّب البعض هذا الكتاب بإنجيل جبران. أعتقد أن هذا هو الوصف الأنسب لكتاب اقتبس كاتبه حروفه من نور سماوي. ترجمة ثروت عكاشة جعلت النص العربي يبدو كأنه هو النص الأصلي الذي كُتب به الكتاب.أحمد الديب2008
Re-read a classic to start off the new year. As with every classic, this too turned up in a new light. With echoes of Schopenhauer, Kant and even Comte, this deep poem suddenly took new life in this reading. Now what is left is to search out which way the influence spread before flowering in this expression - east to west, the other way, or is it an early amalgamation of all philosophy like all truly great poems are.
They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish."On joy and sorrow:"When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.
When you are sorrowful, look again in your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight."On reason and passion:"Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul.
54 sayfalık dev kitap. El Mustafa yıllardır beklediği gemiye binip yaşadığı yerden uzaklaşacakken halk ona merak ettiklerini sorup El Mustafa'dan hakikati isterler. Bunun üzerine sorulan her soruya karşılık öğütler alırlar. Aşk, acı, özgürlük, suç ve ceza, dostluk, ölüm ve daha bir çok konu. Dostluk ile suç ve ceza kısmını ayrı bir sevdim ben. Altını çizmek istemediğim tek bir yer bile olmadı desem yeridir. Ama en önemlisi yazarı sevdim. Ermiş ara ara açıp bakacağım tam bir başucu kitabı oldu benim için.
-- استحضر " جبران " تشبيهات أكثر من رائعة متوافقة مع تعاليم النبيّ التي أرساها في قلوب أتباعه .-- أرشحّه لكل عاشق للأدب ، عاشق للفنّ ، عاشق للحياة ، عاشق للإنسانيّة ، ساعي للسموّ ، عاشق لجبران !
هناك رسائل إنسانية سامية , رسائل خطّها بشر من نوع خاص , رسائل قد تصل لدرجة ما من القداسة , من حيث سمو مكانتها وعلوها .فقد ناطحت السحاب من حيث عظمة الإبداع , ولا يمكنك عندما تفرغ من قرائتها إلا الاستسلام لبالغ أثرها من براعة لفظ و روعة وصف و دقة تعبير .نواجه هنا نص في غاية الجمال , نص لخّص فيها إنسان معاناته و تجربته الإنسانية العظيمة بطريقة أقل ما يوصف بها هي العظمة.أيها السادة : ببساطة مطلقة , هناك بعض النصوص لابد لك من قرائتها قبل أن تموت , ضع ذلك النص على رأس هذه القائمة.
a book for anyone willing to step outside of the insitutionalized perspective of life that most of America and the world finds itself in. Every line is an intuitive and insightful proclamation of the gut feelings we all have about the way life can be lived and should be lived. I have heard the quote on marriage being like two trees standing near each other with a little space between them so the wind (God) can come between them. it's an extremely popular and inspirational book!
As one of the most widely read writers in the world, how could he not?The Prophet combines faith and philosophy in a series of questions and answers on life and death and all the big topics in between, all delivered in a style similar to the Socratic Method...except that it's not really promoting any kind of critical thinking.
Certainly it's tough to get any thinking done while someone is talking to you, but is really does help your thoughts to evolve when you talk things over with others with experience and wisdom.Poetry isn't my thing anymore, so I was hesitant to read The Prophet.

This book is cool because it is an excellent display of how similar the world's religions truly are.
All the religions in the world are all compatible, because their entire purpose is to provide a belief system to help people in a society get along.
The rules that make humans get along are all pretty similar regardless of culture, so the religions end up the same.I would recommend this book to college boys who want to impress girls, because when I was reading it, girls seemed pretty impressed.
Also, I would recommend it to teenagers who want to feel spiritual and deep.
دي مش هتبقي أول و أخر مرة أقراه, الكتاب مليان جدا و أعتقد انه صعب ان الواحد يدركه من أول مرة و لكني استمتعت بشكل كبير جدا بيه.
فكرته فكرتني جدا بخطبة الوداع لسيدنا محمد (ص) , و ده مفسره ثروت عكاشة في المقدمة عن تأثر جبران بالانجيل و القرأن و النسخة الانجليزيه في أسلوبها الشعري و الرومانسي متأثر جدا بأسلوب ترجمة الانجيل , حتي الالفاظ المستخدمة شعرية انجليلة بشكل واضح.ثروت عكاشة ابدع في الترجمة لم يجعلها ترجمة حرفية أو حتي ترجمة محترفية ناقلة فقط بالعكس أنا كنت احيانا بنسي انها ترجمة, أسلوبه الشعري و الفاظه في منتهي القوة و كأنه بيتحدي نص جبران نفسه.المقدمة السابقة لكتاب النبي و هي من 104 صفحة قوية جدا و لكني انصح بقرأتها بعد الانتهاء من كتاب النبي نفسه.
This is a semi-poetic collection of views on important things in life, like love, giving, crime and punishment, pain, talking, and beauty.
I like this part:And a woman who held a babe against her bosom said, Speak to us of Children.And he said:Your children are not your children.They are the sons and daughters of Life's longing for itself.They come through you but not from you,And though they are with you yet they belong not to you.---------2 January 2012I read it again today.
What a difference 3+ years can make between readings.
أجمل ما في هذا الكتاب هو المقدمة التي كتبها المترجم د.
ثروت عكاشة والتي تناهز المئة صفحة.فيها ذكر سيرة جبران، وقد انبهرت بكثير من الحقائق التي ذكرها خاصة علاقته بـ"ماري هاسكل".ومن الأمور المفيدة في المقدمة تحليله حول فكر جبران وعقيدته، وكيف أنه أقرب إلى الصوفية والإيمان بوحودة الوجود والحلول من أي شيء آخر.
عكاشة بليغة جدا وفيها روح أدبية رائعة لم تجعلني أشعر أني إزاء نص مترجم نهائيا.ميزة هذه النسخة التي أصدرتها دار الشروق هي وضع الترجمة العربية والنص الإنكليزي جنبا إلى جنبا في صفحتين متقابلتين، مما يسهل المقارنة لمن أراد ذلك.لم يعجبني متن كتاب "النبي" كثيرا، فيه رومانسية وتمذهب للطبيعة وللمثالي غير القابل للتطبيق بشكل لا يمكني تجرعه.
I am torn between loving this book and wanting to make fun of it.
I want to think on these things:"Who can separate his hours before him, saying 'This for God and this for myself; This is for my soul, and this other for my body?' All your hours are wings that beat through space from self to self.""No man can reveal to you aught but that which already lies half asleep in the dawning of your knowledge.
