https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/829313.Miles
****Bad words ahead!!! stop reading now if you get your panties in a bunch around "naughty words". ****If foul language offends you, DO NOT pick up this book.If you could give a shit, pick it up and enjoy!one motherfucking good read!-read it with a glass of wine and some miles playing in the background-it will blow your mind, motherfucker!
i won't say this is the absolute best book i've ever read, but it sure is a motherfucker, as miles would probably say if he were here.
miles davis didn't dance, by the way...
unless you don't like the word "motherfucker," or reading about some bitches gettin' themselves slapped sometimes when they get all up in a man's face while he's trying to do his business...
Miles Davis is truly one the great artists of the 20th century and was at the peak of multiple sea changes in the history of music.
"One of the reasons I like playing with a lot of young musicians today is because I find that a lot of old jazz musicians are lazy motherfuckers, resisting change and holding on to the old ways because they are too lazy to try something different.
The old musicians stay where they are and become like museum pieces under glass, safe, easy to understand, playing that tired old shit over and over again.
What though has struck me, I try to explain as he downs his drink with a small pill, is the phrase he used two minutes ago, that he plays, Sheets Of Music.
I don’t want to backed into and cornered by no labels.I gathered my strength, my steam, refusing another line of coke, tried playing the notes above my stuttering faltering voice, and asked what about his kids, his wife.
He missed, I wanted to tell him, holding the constant bore of his eyes at bay, that the boys difficulties in life may well have stemmed from his abandoning them, his continous playing on tour and rarely there.
Honestly I think the only human being that comes out looking decent in this book is Duke Ellington (go figure.) So much fucking dirt it threatens to mask the story of Miles' life and all the fascinating firsthand experience he has of the era(s)...but never does.Also precious is the insight into why he was constantly trying out new genres and inventing new ones when he got bored.
A must for jazz fans, Miles fans and/or people who just like intense life stories.
That, I began to think, as I read the book, applied to many aspects of his life including the only aspect of Miles Davis that is of enduring interest: his music.
I like the music of those times a lot too, but those, more than any other recordings were the work of a group sound, with Miles as just one element of the continuous buzz.After that there was a long break which seems to have consisted of living in rich man's squalour while taking lots of drugs and applying to numerous, anonymous women ("If I met them on the street today I probably wouldn't even recognize most of them") the inquisitiveness he once applied to music.
The honesty about life long drug abuse and his feelings about America in general and white people specifically makes this a must read for those who are interested in how one's life can be impacted by race.
Great job exposing how critics can and do influence opinions about music and the artists who produce it.It was good to hear Miles in his own voice clear up some of the headline grabbing incidents that he was involved in.
He prefers to say what he has to say, to tell his true feelings, even when what he has to say hurts him and others."So that type of honesty makes for a great book.
It's good in the same way the recent Keith Richards autobiography is good - because it's a book about music by a guy who loves music, has played a lot of music and knows a lot about music.
Also, unlike the comparable Ray Charles autobiography it doesn't wind down halfway through when it becomes clear its protagonist is an incurable man of habit and a control freak.
Wanna know how to get a band together?
Man, you don't gotta preach to 'em or tell 'em what to do, just throw 'em off balance and watch the adrenalin kick in.
Miles, he's the man.
"Some kind of happiness is measured out in Miles."
Wow, what a great Bio. I’ve read some really good Bios in the last two years and this one is definitely one of the best.
Davis is extremely candid about his life and times as absolutely one of the best Jazz musicians, Ever!
And his memory and attention for details makes this definitely worth wild.
Davis shares moments and experiences, good & bad and gives great accounts of the different formations of musicians that created numerous bands, big & small, the original making of the bands....lol.
He is not one of my favs but I’m so very glad I finally read this read, with a new found respect for Davis.
It's just a real honest look at a musical genius who gives it all to you Straight, No Chaser (referencing Thelonious Monk) with all of the warts and flaws included.If you thought you knew everything about Miles Davis you might want to read this book to find out otherwise.
He is brutally honest about everything here including: racism, drugs, women, physical abuse, music, family issues etc...This book is written in a very comfortable style as if Miles is sitting across from you on a couch, legs crossed smoking a cigarette and frequently sipping on cognac or scotch (or both) from a side table.
Miles Davis's autobiography takes no pains whatsoever to varnish the author's reputation as a kind and loving human being.
By far, the word that appears more often than any other in Miles: The Autobiography, written in partnership with Quincy Troupe, is that 12-letter, four-syllable all-purpose standby for a person who engages in sexual relations with his own mother.
Davis also insists, several times, that critics are almost always wrong, especially when they accuse him of hating white people.
Indeed, he is just as harsh on black people as he is on whites, and the black person he is harshest upon has to be himself.
Davis thought (for good reason) that he was a wonderful musician and didn't let anyone dissuade him.
At the same time, in many respects this book is a name dropping list of great musicians Davis worked with and for and lauched.
I also didn't think he explained the politics of Black Power well enough.
The book was read brilliants and it felt like I got to know Miles Davis but I don't think I would have liked him.
At the same time, I don't doubt his arrests and harrassments for driving while black were in any way exaggerated, unfortunately.
Over the course of these four hundred pages, Miles switches between electrifying discussions of his and others' creative processes and insults directed at the musicians he worked with. Take it as you will, I guess, but the music-talk is as wonderful as one would expect. And treat yourself to a shot of the liquor of your choice every time he calls someone or something a motherfucker.
One bad*ss motherf*cker.
If you want to learn about the creative process this book provides an amazing study.
Some quotes:"A musician's attitude is the music he plays.""Things take time, you know, you just don't learn something new and do it overnight.
Some styles are slick and creative and imaginative and innovative and others aren't.""A person is lucky if he has one soldier or Gil Evans in his life, someone close enough to pull your coattail when somethings gone wrong.""When I say both of us have a shyness I mean an artistic kind of shyness, where you are wary of people taking up your time."
There couldn't be a more mind-boggling character of the Black Jazz community of the 20th century than this man.(maybe Archie Shepp)[where's his book?:] It reads so well, giving you the sense that he's just sitting there lighting cigarette after cigarette, pouring brandy after brandy.
It also made me go back to his catalog and review what made me read this is the first place.
It's not so much a review of who played what, when, & where (he forgets much of the time), but a survey of why he played what he did.
tips for being a great artist:1) never doubt yourself2) never repeat yourself3) never admit that you were wrong4) do drugs
I later used the music on the album to jar students in a training class to think creativity, but have not listened to the album in years.
I loved it.Miles Davis was born in southern Illinois in 1926 the year after my father was born in central Illinois.
The actor, Dion Graham, who read the book for the recording, did a phenomenal job imitating Miles' whispery voice.
I had the feeling that I was actually listening to Miles Davis tell his story.This book is not for everyone.
I also recommend that you listen to the Dion Graham recording rather than reading the book.
Excelente autobiografia, muito completa e iluminadora em termos musicais, directa e dura em termos pessoais. Pela linguagem, mas sobretudo pela incorreção politica da personagem, não é para os estômagos mais sensíveis. Mas compensa, compensa muito: a autobiografia de Miles Davis tem o condão quase mágico de nos fazer perceber melhor e amar ainda mais a música de um dos maiores génios da grande música do século XX, o jazz.
It was wonderful learning about his life from the early years on and he held nothing back.
Needles to say I learned a lot about music, and enjoyed the parts I didn't even understand.
Even though I found him to be rather mean at times, I have more respect for Mr. Davis than I did before I read this autobiography.
He made me laugh a lot and I enjoyed the way he phrased his sentences.
It was a fun and educational read, the narrator was very very good and sounded like Miles.
A true musical genius, that is Mr. Miles Davis.
This was one heck of an autobiography. I've never seen anyone write something about themselves that was so transparent. I have a thing for people that just don't give a damn what other people think. It takes courage to live your life on your own terms. And Miles Davis was clearly one of those types of people. If interested, I wrote a thorough review over on the blog: http://readinghaspurpose.blogspot.com...
this was a very candid, no holds barred autobiography. I felt like I really knew Miles Davis after reading this book. I know there is a movie coming soon and I cant wait to see it. I will update this review after I see the movieWARNING: don't read if you are going to feel offended by the cuss words.
I liked this book a lot, and it gave me some insight into Miles as a person, and into how he approached his music.
Thus, he says bad things about Chet Baker, for example, because Baker "stole" from Miles.
But somehow it was wrong for the young white guys to love, and want to play, like the black musicians they admired.
And certainly nothing stopped him from collaborating with Gil Evans.For the most part, Miles has little bad to say about anyone in this book.
So when he says good things about Garcia, or Santana, or Hendrix, or Prince, it's worthwhile to pay attention.
Amazingly insightful.
I finished both the autobiography of Miles Davis as well as Ian Carr’s excellent biography a few weeks back.
Both were exhilarating reading to be honest.
As for the autobiography I love Miles’ style injected with loads of vernacular and honest, brutal self-criticism at times and megalomaniac self-praise in others.
It is a great document of the inner workings of genius and fame and just deepened my respect for the Miles mystique.
Apparently, he spoke most of the text that Quincy Troupe recorded via audio and then transcribed.
That gives the text a real casual, conversational feel and makes it such as pleasure to read.
Chock full of juicy anecdotes from the world of jazz, Miles tells the truth in his own words from the depths of heroin addiction to the heights of the great quintet sessions.
All along the way he tells his story from his perspective, both dishing out the dirt on everyone from Charlie Parker to Billie Holiday to singing their praises.
Mostly follows his life chronologically revealing more about the man that will make you either love or hate and him more than you did before you started reading.
For jazz fans, can't recommend this read highly enough.
When Miles played his trumpet he's a crowd pleaser, and this book does just that. There's some great anecdotes in this book, like Miles telling us one of the biggest influences on his trumpet playing was Orson Welles' soothing radio voice(!). He tells us John Coltrane used to pick his boogers and eat them (!). Whether he's telling Thelonious Monk to fuck off or fight a drug habit, Miles has served a real page-turner. You won't get bored with this one!
I suppose by default Miles Davis became my favorite jazz musician but it wasn’t until hearing Bitches Brew - years after dropping out of music school myself - that he not only cemented himself as my favorite jazz musician, but one of the greatest musical influences of my lifetime; this has only strengthened throughout the years.
Davis isn’t a writer by trade - save for composing music, of course - but it’s evident which subjects he’s impassioned about.
Others may be split, but that’s to be expected from such a polarizing figure, someone as monolithic in both music and general life as Miles Davis was.
No starred review. I chose the audio version and the narrator felt the need to do his best Miles impression. No thank you.
