https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/951371.I_m_the_King_of_the_Castle
This novel reflects the anger and breakdown issues of the 70s and Susan Hill portrayed the issue of bullying in a poignant manner. Mental bullying and the pressure it adds on a child. Kingshaw is the characters who get bullied.What angered me is how Kingshaw’s mother thinks only for herself and forgets her son completely as soon as she meets a new man.Susan Hill was able to show us the gradual mental breakdown of Kingshaw till it reached a point where life became unbearable.Click On The Color Splashes To Join Me ;)
I had to read this book for English class, and from page one I was bitter about having to do so.
Having been stuck with a 'Lord of the Flies' wannabe instead of the glorious Great Gatsby which was oh-so conveniently pushed off the reading list just that year, I moped about and only got around to finishing this book today, half a year after it was assigned to us - a record, I think, for a book that takes all of maybe 3 to 5 hours to read.
C'est la merde.
Although things are pretty damn bleak for him from the start, what tore me apart was the way young Charles Kingshaw, the lead character, was given little morsels of hope all the way through, only to have them unceremoniously ripped away from him every time, by Hooper, his bully cum step brother; and by the adults in his life, who were so concerned with their own happiness that they blatantly ignored the torture that was going on right under their noses.
From the moment Charles Kingshaw stepped out onto the driveway at Warings (the Hooper family home), his destiny was set, and the fulfilment of that destiny brought me to tears.
If you'd like to read about two stupid brats bickering for 200 hundred pages, this is your book. It was not creepy in the way that I hoped it would be, just annoying. The parents were two of the most idiotic characters I've had to read about in a while. Their sheer ignorance and blindness to Charles' condition made me want to shoot myself in the face.
I had to study this for my GCSE English a while ago... This is a horrific story. Why anyone would want to read about developing torment and isolation for an entire story, I have no idea. I recall nothing pleasant about this story, HOWEVER it was written well with interesting symbolism throughout the book, and I find this upsetting, even frustrating(?) that the author should have put such fabulous talent and effort into creating something so dark and painful.
A dark and gloomy book about a hunter and his prey,a tormentor and his victim.What we today call bullying is described accurately and poignantly in this book.Two little boys are fighting one another.The fearful Kingshaw and the sarcastic Hooper.Hooper does everything in his power to harm the other boy.He won't let him at peace and just when Kingshaw thinks he is finally winning this race,things turn upside down and the countdown begins only now things are getting really really wild.
Also- stating that you hate this book because one particular female character irritated you to an extent that you considered "shooting yourself in the face" is not a very good reason for rating it so low.
What I really hated about this book is that it seems like Susan Hill couldn't make her mind up about certain things.
In other words- 'I'm the King of the castle' should be ripped off the IGCSE reading list because it brings pain into one's life not as a depressing book but as a story of so many plotholes that it makes me question humanity once again.
Ok guys, after reading your comments on my initial rating of 4 stars I agree.
I can't really rate something on the premise of how good the writing is, if I absolutely and truly hated the characters.
She puts hooper (who by the way is a cowardly, whining...ugh) over her own son, who is obviously traumatized and distraught.
Anyways the point is that yes it is good writing, I wouldn't hate Mrs Kingshaw if it wasn't, but you guys are right I completely hated reading it.
I'm doing this book for my igcse and honestly this picture sums up me and everyone else's feeling for the entire book! :and then are teacher asks us if we like the book and we all know if we say we don't she'll be pissed so all of us are just like: GOD. this is my life.
The thing is, Kingshaw wasn't necessarily a coward; in fact, he was smart, and he didn't simply let Hooper have his own way.
This isn't really a thriller, and the things that Hooper did to Kingshaw weren't really as violent as I was expecting, but they were undoubtedly very frightening.
And I couldn't believe the thoughts running in my head while I was reading this: "I want Hooper to die," and "If I were you, Kingshaw, I'd just run away and starve myself until I die" and stuff like that.The characters?
And I mean complete.I'm the King of the Castle is a book written for adults.
It challenges them to think about whether a child's personality and their mentality is shaped by family circumstances, or whether they're born like that.Naturally we think "Of course they're shaped by their family!
I'm talking about the evil intentions that might only originate from one's "soul".Through emotional neglect and misled notions, Edmund Hooper has become a mentally deranged (I think) boy.
The foreshadowing is a bit overdone in my opinion (even the pathetic fallacy) but I suppose Ms. Hill really wanted to convey the violent nature of Hooper.Recommend for anyone who's intelligent, and is maybe a parent.
Read this one for school and hated it.
Finished this a little while ago but I have no wifi due to moving house! Was O.K.
This book just wasn't for me.
I enjoyed this, but only because I'm not British or of the time period. If this had been written about American boys, I would have DNF'd it, since the author seems ignorant of what boys are actually like. You can make characters like these boys, but such a background was not present here, and it seems the author did not have the courage to bring this to the conclusion the initial premise demanded.
It is deeply surprising that his mother appears almost oblivious to this, despite the fact that his behaviour and inner monologues are consistent with someone who needs urgent psychiatric help.Kingston arrives at the castle and is stuck night and day with a bigger, more confident boy also weirdly referred to exclusively by surname.
Hooper's behaviour wasn't like any school bully I've encountered, he acted like a sort of "Count Olaf" petty villain figure in a children's book.
And for any parents of children who they know or suspect of being bullied, please make sure you talk about this book with your child when they study it in school.
It is well written, but the subject matter was too depressing for me. We had to study it in school, so I wouldn't choose to read a book like this anyway.
This was the crappiest, most horrible, terrible, crappy, stupid, dumb, horrible, stupid, stupid, stupid book I have ever read.
I picked this one up quite a while ago but got bored because the book was mostly just about two terrible little boys.
I finally picked it back up and finished it.
So, for the most part, I was following along with the story, not really knowing where it would go and not necessarily trying to figure out where it would end.
I was going through the motions of the story which had a few bumps and turns.
Anyway, the ending of this book threw me completely.
So, I feel like I was entertained by this book, but I wouldn't necessarily say that I really enjoyed it.
Susan Hill is clearly aiming at fear in all its incarnations, but the only fear it really captures is that of being right in an adult world that is wrong; of being misjudged by everyone around you; of having nobody who shares your particular sanity.Being a child in the circumstances of Charles Kingshaw is to live in a system that makes no sense; a world in which you need to speak out, but has no mechanism for your voice to be heard.
She has succeeded where almost every author I have read this year has failed, and got an ending spot on.
Most books talk about the happiness and the joy of childhood while this book explores a side that most people would't like to read.
Edmund Hooper makes Charles Kingshaw's own mother start to distrust him and makes Kingshaw paranoid by making Kingshaw think that Hooper knows something more about him.The book overall is a Gothic book about the dark side of childhood.
Although I disliked the situations and the plot of the story as a whole, I enjoyed reading the book because it was different and gave another point of view on what we all seem to think is a very happy and joyful age.o
At the same time it is certainly well written and evocative.It accomplishes its goals in making readers confront the brutality of bullying and the darker parts of the human spirit.
This is an IGCSE coursebook in a class I am teaching, and I think it will work well as a text for analysis of language.
However, I do wonder why the texts often considered literature force students to confront such grim views of human existence.
Is it so hard to find literature that lifts the spirit, rather than drags it through the muck?Anyway, if you are looking for a book to make you squirm in discomfort, this one should do the trick.
Horrible, brutal and cruel.
Charles is tortured physical and psychological.
Edmund doesn't have a single piece of soul in his heart.
He is the best description of a human monster.
How a child could get like that I don't understand.
Charles's mother is also ignorant and cruel.
How can she love another child more than her own?
I've read this till the end in hope that he'll be able to find happiness, but his finding of it was relative.
I've read this when I was younger considering it a children's book, it's not.
No child could enjoy this.
For me personally this story was far too distressing, but I do think it has a powerful message to put across to kids, particularly those 'alpha' leaders who may pick on other kids without thinking much of it to really consider their actions and the consequences.
The dislike for Edmund is unreal. If I ever would have such a child, I would be angry with myself. My god.
Only because it filled me with hate for one of the characters.
I liked and hated this book at the same time.I liked it because it was so well written and structured by Ms Hill that you could feel being slowly driven down an excruciating journey into the chasm of the unbearable life of one dear boy.I hated it because i am a parent and i can imagine the hell the dear boy had to go through.
Although the book was written in the 70s, it seems I do see some parallels in today's style of parenting.
Not being aware of this resulted in dire consequences of this stifling story!A difficult book but a necessary read in our society.
La cattiveria dei bambini, la cecità dei genitori che pensano vada sempre tutto bene, che sia tutto normale, che "è solo una fase, passerà". Una storia agghiacciante di bullismo psicologico, di disperazione e di solitudine che sai già come andrà a finire, e forse proprio per questo risulta tanto crudele.
نهاية القصةكان لها أثر مؤذي على نفسيتي و قد تؤذي كل القراء, عندما تفقدكل شيءو يتجاهلك الجميع, تفقد الإهتمام,تحتاج إلى من يفهمك فلا تجده, تنظر ولا ترى أحداً حولك ,ماهذه الحياة التي تعيشها , هذا ما كان يحس به الطفل كينغشو نهاية مأساوية للأسف,,
The characters in this book really force me to cringe at some times, specifically Mrs. Kingshaw and Mr. Hooper, the parents.
Sometimes I look back at this book and think "What if the parents knew, what if Hooper was getting into trouble because of his actions?".
I really despise her.I did enjoy the book at times where Kingshaw was not getting constantly harassed, like when he met Fielding.
Overall I think this book is worth a read for some people, especially someone like a bully, to really understand the consequences of bullying.
