https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8659601-the-power-of-six
John Smith: Hey there Jess: Im not going to lie, I kind of had the hots for you in book one.
John Smith: I tell it as it is.Jess: Anywho, lets get to the juicy stuff that all our viewers want to know.
Hey, Ive got Sam from his cage via skype next, but he is a bigger waste of space than the extra three 'Mortal Instruments' books, and I really dont want to talk to that guy.Unnamed Evil Mogodorian Alien #56: Why so?Jess: He's just dumb.
I want to read about John Smith, and his friend Sam and his kick-but side kick, Number 6!
I've finally read the highly anticipated sequel to I Am Number Four. I love how the author wrote it in two perspectives: John's and Marina's.The Power of Six is much more action-packed than the first. There are some issues of betrayal and love and sacrifices. Six, you badass alien, I think I like you too.It's definitely worth the wait and when's the third book coming out? I. NEED. MORE.
“If you ever know a man who tries to drown his sorrows, kindly inform him his sorrows know how to swim.”  The Power of Six was not what I'd expected, the book was slow in the beginning, its story revolves around Number Seven. I think most of her parts were boring. I'm curious, in spite of the title about Number Six, why this book is all about Number Seven. Her character is not strong as the others, and not for my taste, yet I hope that Pittacus put her here for some reason. I just hope. “The ke
Her character is not strong as the others, and not for my taste, yet I hope that Pittacus put her here for some reason.
I was quite disappointed with this book, it should have done better with its fabulous plot and pace like the first one.
I hated John, too, he was changed and very shilly-shally, he's supposed to be more dependent after all he has been through.
But all I can think is that the disappointing things in this book were happened for some reason because the next one is the best I can't believe it that Pittacus could redeem this series perfectly.Thai review https://goo.gl/ipGsFU
Her Cepan Adeline has decided to abandon her responsibilities of training Seven for survival against the Mogs, but that doesn’t stop this determined character of discovering her legacies and trying to locate her inheritance.
The two major twists in this book really changed the direction of the story as we find not only the two new members of the Garde (Seven and Nine) but also discover there was a second ship the left Loric with number Ten. She’s younger than the others and so far, she’s only revealed one legacy because of her age.
It took me a while to get a copy of this book and at one point, I sort of lost my enthusiast in reading this sequel to I am Number Four, because I guess, I waited too long. But when I read the book ,it was as if I haven't left the prequel at all. This book grabbed me from hanging off the cliff as the members of the garde gradually find one another. I just felt a bit annoyed at Four for his fickle emotions for both Sarah and Six.
I received an ARC copy of this book from the publisher for a honest, fair review.
I did not like the first book of this series, and I had decided not to waste my time on the sequel.
So I saw the movie and thought, hey, this didn't suck complete arse, I wonder what is going to happen next?!?!
Then we Bookworms got a free copy of The Power of Six from the publisher and I thought, Self, how bad could it really, truly be?
The love triangle/square in this book was a nightmare.3.
Sorry but if you are not going to be constructive then why are you dragging on about hating the book and only reading it because the guy who played Alex rider in stormbreaker is in it? P.s. You can't really comment on a book that isn't out yet and therefore you can't have read. Goo drool over Alex whats-his-name.
(And is it only me who keeps imagining dear old Judith Kerr's creation standing in the middle of the book yowling 'why, why all this hate for poor little me?')JK Rowling evidently had the whole of the Potter saga in her head when she began and though people may criticize her for many things I do not think anyone gets the impression that she suddenly, halfway through a novel thought, 'Oh lets turn the whole concept on its head by changing things or creating characters who are fundamental but did not exist anywhere before'.Let me list some points to ponder.1) Adelina....what was her faith journey about...totally unbelievable and ridiculous.
Loved this sequel! We meet more of the Legacies in this book and I loved every one of them! I love the interaction between the characters and oh my god this book was so griping it's crazy! The story is definitely moving forward fast and there was so much action just like the first book. My only complaint about this book was the romance was a bit cringeworthy and childish and I'm also not loving Sarah anymore. She needs to leave. Other than that, the book was all kinds of fun!
“The only limits for tomorrow are the doubts we have today.”3.5/5 StarsThe first time I picked up The Lorien Legacies feels like ages ago.
I had to freshen up my memories and decided to rewatch the movie, which was a great idea thanks to Alex Pettyfer's abs.The Power of Six is fast-paced and action packed.
The writing is easy and entertaining, and I finished the book in only a day.What makes this series so exciting is the large cast and their many special powers.
I'm hungry for more.At times the action was a little over the top for my taste.
I think I may have actually enjoyed this book more than the first in the series!
I was actually hesitant to start it because I enjoyed the first so much and didn't see how this one could live up to it.
And we're also introduced to a second view point, another Loric in Spain and it only gets more and more interesting and crazy from there!
Everything about this series is so damn interesting, I'm officially completely and totally under its spell!
I'm really really loving this series and I can't wait to dive into the next book and see what it brings!
It took me FOUR days to read this book.
Marina kinda annoyed me at first but damn the girl can breathe underwater and heal just about anything what evennnnnn!!
Plus I love that she has to save the guys asses all the time !
Sweet baby John.
You can like who ever you damn please.
That loric only love one person bullshit is a NO GO on earth so chill.
Sam. MY OTHER FAVORITE IF NOT MY NUMBER ONE IN THIS WHOLE SERIES SO FAR.
I just love him so much.
Initial Reaction After Reading:I'm thoroughly angry. The majority of the book was a fantastic read...until I got to the parts where Four/John Smith agonized like a fickle boy stuck between loving one girl and liking another. Oh, there's a difference. It makes me mad that THIS overshadowed how great this book could've been. I'm sorry that I'm so hung up on the forced romances in this book but I detest love triangles; hate it, hate it, hate it - with a passion. I have debated on abadoning this boo
The majority of the book was a fantastic read...until I got to the parts where Four/John Smith agonized like a fickle boy stuck between loving one girl and liking another.
Through much of his angsty soliloquy about Sarah and Six, the thoughts swirling through my head was that this book was not written by the original author who wrote I Am Number Four.
I didn't really warm up to the idea of Sarah and Four but I'm furious that the author sold me - completely at that, on the first book with their professions of love only to make a mockery of them on the next.
Well I have reached that point with our numbered protagonists.Where I found the first book in this series fairly interesting, this one pretty much (so far as I'm concerned) crashed and burned.
Who loves who...who's jealous of who...what does the love once for life thing mean when you can't keep someone else off your mind????
ack.We struggle through this morass to a final big battle to tie the book up.
"We're" out numbered maybe thousands to one!!!!!
Luckily we (or I) seem to possess every super power ever conceived and can blast things with my (or our) mind, become invisible, heal wounds at will!!!Again, ack.Enjoy if it's your cup of tea.
Seriously loving this series! Crazy interesting. I cannot wait to read about the other Garde!
I got my hands on an advanced reading copy of this and I eagerly tore into it.
After a bit of a slow start, the story soon picks up the pace ending in an all out battle with a few epic twists.
The Power of Six introduces us to another one of the nine and half of the story is narrated from her point of view.
There are plenty of moments that had me on the edge of my seat and we finally find out what was in the second spaceship that left Lorien in John's visions.
A fantastic installment in the Lorien Legacies.
Honestly, Four's personality ruins this book for me and if I don't see some changes in the third book, I don't think I'll bother with the rest of the series.After battling against the Mogadorians at their school, Four(John), his best friend Sam and Six have fled the town with a price on their heads.
We also meet Seven(Marina) who tells us the story of what happened to her and her Cepan and what life is like for her in Spain, which links to John and Six later in the plot.
She’s just as horrible person as Four.
They want to try to find the other Numbers, combining each of their powers to fight against the Mog's and bring peace to there planet Lorien, thus saving planet earth from certain doom.
Nothing actually gets resolved but we do learn quite a bit from this installment, making this much bigger, more dire then what we get from the first book.Along with John's pov, we also meet Marina (aka Number 7) who tells us the story of what happened to her and her Cepan (guardian) and what life is like for her in Spain, which links John and Six later on in the story.
She's currently living in a convent/orphanage, waiting for her legacies to develop and the right time to find the others.The story switches between John and Marina's points of view and while in one way I liked this (mostly because John is the dullest protagonist ever and it meant we get less of him), it was sometimes confusing at the start of the switch as to who it was.
While we mostly got to see what was happening with Six through John's point of view, I think I'd have preferred this part of the story to be hers.
3.75* - argh! It could’ve easily been a much higher rating. I just don’t do that whole pathetic mess that John was over Sarah and Six 🙄
The Power of Six is a bit different, and where it does have some really good parts, and introduces a real, actual, well developed character in Marina, it still also follows John.
Her character and her storyline are sooooo much better than anything we saw in the first book, because she's written in such a way that you can empathize with her, and see her as a real person.
A lot of the mystery built up in the series mythology is dispelled in this book when the characters themselves actually start to point out the plot holes.
In fact, EVERY character in that book was exactly like him, one dimensional and completely lacking anything resembling personality.
I want to do some speculating:1) The power of six, has to be the story of them finding the six remaining Loriens.
(hide spoiler)]2) Who were the mysterious people in the second ship with the baby?Is there a seventh child out there with a whole bunch of the Kimera animals helping to protect him/her?
(hide spoiler)]4) I think that the book was way better then the movie, I think they messed with too many things in the movie for me have enjoyed it as much as I wanted too.
So many unanswered questions like WHO IS SAM????And who was the mysterious guy who sent that info to the conspiracy magazine?(view spoiler)[
Loved all the new powers. It's cool to see the kids get together and meet one another. Bernie-Kozar is my favorite thing. It would be so cool to have a shifter pet.
“Never lose faith in yourself, and never lose hope; remember, even when this world throws its worst and then turns its back, there is still always hope.” The author, Pittacus Lore, is the author of this series and generally is known to write nonfiction space and alien novels.“The Power of Six” starts off right where the first book, “I Am Number Four,” left off.
However, I do recommend that you read the first book before picking up “The Power of Six.” In the end, I would rate this book a 5/5 due to the ability of the author to incorporate two stories for the price of one.
Its been a long wait but i finally got the chance to read the thrilling new squeal to Lorian Legacies "The Power Of Six" where to begin?First i liked the idea of it being from two different perspectives of both John and Marina, in my review prior to the release of this book coming out i said that this book would be centered completely around seven to give us a break from john but as i read on i realized it made seance to include john as he still has his own story to fulfill.Six still remains my favourite character of this series - she's sexy, funny and a bad-ass when it comes to kicking Mogs and even john asses and understand why she was the choice for the title of this book not only as a means to show the power of the six remaining Garde.
This book had wayy more action than the first, which is perfect to me.
However John made stupid decisions as usual and of course more people paid for his actions.
Sam, while growing into a wonderful character, was a little annoying and honestly I don't see what he's adding to these books.
The plot has thickened concerning him, so hopefully in the next book we'll learn more about his part.
Six felt like a secondary character in this book, same with the first.
Kinda wishing her point of view was told instead of John's.
Awaiting the next book!
10 minutes ago, I read the last page of THE POWER OF SIX.
Nine minutes ago, I called my mother in hysterics telling her she must--MUST--read the I AM NUMBER FOUR series.
Here's how the convo went:Mom: Sounds like you loved them.
Now?Mom: I'll buy them when they're all out.Me: No. You will buy the first two today and then loathe the world that the third isn't out yet.
Me: If you don't buy these books right freaking now I'll disown you as a mother.Mom: I'll think about it.
It pains my heart to admit this, but it's better than Twilight.
Better than Hunger Games.
"I was just thinking that, out of the four of us, three are aliens, two are fugitives with terrorist ties, and not a single one of us has a valid driver's licence. Something tells me things might get interesting." Whoooo! Before I start this review, can I just say that Lore absolutely smashed ‘I am Number Four’ out of the park with this! The Power of Six is an absolutely fantastic sequel that has left me dying to know to more.The Power of Six is told from alternate point of views. We’re introdu
On the other side of the world, Marina is also trying to find a way to get to Ohio because she believes John is like her but with her Cepán that has chosen God over Lorien, Marina is left to figure things out on her own…..and it’s not easy.I’ll be honest when I say, I’m not a huge fan of Sci-Fi but Lore has created such an amazing and addictive series that I’m absolutely hooked with the story of Lorien.
So, the first book was OK, but I read it because I had nothing better to do.
This book mainly circulates around the Four-Six-Sam-Sarah love triangle/square, which honestly, bores me.
This one wasn't romantic, but was honestly so boring I just ended up skipping most of it.
And the whole thing about Ella being (view spoiler)[ Number Ten, and there being "another ship" didn't make any sense.
They didn't explain it at all, and was just sort of thrown in at the end.
(hide spoiler)]All in all it is not a great literature piece, but read if you have spare time and nothing to do.
This book was absolutely amazing and I regret not reading the first one!
Although it says the book is narrated by Seven, Number Four's opinion is also included!
Readers are introduced to Seven (Of course) & includes a small bit of Number Nine!
Absolutely can not wait for the third in the installment!
(I believe there are six total!) So if you haven't read this yet or the series at all I recommend you go do so ASAP!
I'm rarely ever into SciFi so that's a lot coming from me since I am very critical about the books I read!
