https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6630200-catherine-of-siena
For starters, Catherine was the most actively involved – in terms of Church politics – of any Catholic saint ever.
These sound like very simple accomplishments but given the hopelessly involved political situation of the times, Catherine worked tirelessly to bring about these monumental efforts sparing herself no pains, whatever the cost to own health and personal life.
A ‘Doctor of the Church’ is a title given by a variety of Christian churches to individuals whom they recognize as having been of particular importance, specifically regarding their contribution to theology or doctrine.Catherine is known for her Catherine of Siena: The Dialogue.Highly recommended!
An Intro:I am not sure as how to write a review for this book - a wonderful biography on the 14th century saint, Catherine of Siena.
Finding a synopsis in the times of Wikipedia is not a grave problem.So I limit myself to saying my personal impressions.The Impressions:After reading the biography I fell in love with two women - St. Catherine of Siena and Sigrid Undset.
A Quote from one of Catherine's Writings:"How cruel is the soul which offers its enemy the sword with which it is killed!
Undset is a lyrical writer whose historical acumen is profound.
I've never found a bio of Catherine of Siena that inspired me to love or even like her; I've loved her from the first moment she appeared on the pages here.
What a great gift!i was absolutely entnhralled with this book, as were the members of my book club.
everyone enjoyed the history, which we have since learned from a scholar in that area, is completely accurate, and everyone enjoyed and appreciated learning more about Catherine.
If men will humbly receive the teachings I send them through the weaker sex I will show them great mercy, but if they despise these women they shall fall into even worse confusion and even greater agony.” (51)Her quote criticizing the Pope: “If the blind leads the blind both fall into the abyss; doctor and patient hurry to hell together.” (188)Catherine of Siena is an extraordinary subject.
This is a very moving portrait, and does the live of on of the most influential women in the history of western civilization justice.
My favorite biography of a saint. So like Kristin Lavransdatter. Undset is one of very few writers who makes me want to be holy.
I thought I knew a good deal about the life of St. Catherine of Siena. This biography showed me I only had an outline of the life of this great saint. Wow, such a well-written and resourced biography of this amazing women.
Pero, volviendo a Sigrid Undset.Ella nació en Noruega en el seno de una familia atea que las bautizó en la iglesia Luterana porque era la norma del día (o sea, un poco como la mía).
Recordemos en la gran parte de los países escandinavos (y bastantes de Europa del Este) son protestantes y, de hecho, Noruega era un país de mayoría Luterana (una rama del cristianismo que si quieren saber de donde salió pueden buscar en Wikipedia, porque mi capacidad para explicar cosas religiosas es...
Undset has a clear understanding of what life was like in the middle ages and clearly explains it in her book.
I hadn't realized how perilous life in a medieval Italian town could be, how plagued by robbers and raiders.
The author takes the miracles of Catherine as fact, siting that there were witnesses and the miracles are as well documented as any events of that age.
All in all this is a great book about Catherine's family life, her life among the Caterinati and those who would defame her, and her political life.

Summary: The extraordinary life of St. Catherine of Siena.Review: I've read a lot of biographies of saints, but this has been the best one ever. Sigrid Unset is a phenomenal writer, and has managed to capture the essence of St. Catherine of Siena while keeping the book engaging. Phenomenal.
This Great Saint has opened my eyes like no one i have ever read! If you know anything about her your Blessed. When she drank that bowl i stopped and starred at nothing!
Fascinating history, but gets bogged down at the end. Repetitious. 300 page book could have been told in 100.
It's hard to write a biography on a giant of faith like Catherine of Siena.
Sigrid Undset tackles this saint well, including many firsthand accounts of life and several quotes attributed to her.
I'll admit, this biography was difficult for me to follow at times simply because there are no dates and very few years included.
It is hard to make a timeline in your mind when the author tells her life more like a narrative.
The deeds and works of Catherine are incredible and inspiring.
Overall this was a good introductory biography to the saint.
I'm interested now in reading her own words.
Podría decir, como punto a favor, que está muy bien escrita y que, en cambio, como punto negativo, no encontré la objetividad que busco en una biografía, refiriéndome a una voz más neutra. Mientras que, desde un punto mucho más personal, no hallé lo aspirado.Reseña completa: aquí.
Her life is like that saying, "live like today is your last day and tomorrow you will be meeting God." It comes as no surprise her life spanned only 33 years and those last few years, nobody understood how she managed to stay alive.The people of her time and place not only had to live with the nightmarish consequences of violent societal disagreement, but also the nightmarish experience of a church with three popes.
She never hid behind the thought that she had done enough, that she does so much already, really, take a break...you're good, rest, enjoy some "me" time Catherine!
I've only read two other books on saints before (both by G.K. Chesterton, another of my favorite writers), and while I have to say that his writing is much more engaging, this was just as informative if not more so.
Chesterton is concerned with making his saints understandable to the average reader, who is not necessarily familiar with Catholicism, while Undset writes quite comfortably from a thoroughly Catholic viewpoint.
Undset gives you the full image in its full Roman Catholic context, and while I'm not saying I necessarily found her hagiography superior to Chesterton's, I definitely found it an educational read.
Sigrid Undset masterfully tells the story of St. Catherine with passion and beauty.
I am already a fan of Madame Undset, having read the Kristin Lavransdatter trilogy more than once, as well as The Master of Hestviken series.
This biography resonates with the author's intelligence as well as her deep, unyielding faith in a loving and merciful God, as did the whole of St. Catherine's life.
Read this book and become knowledgeable about why Catherine of Siena is one of the greatest saints in the Catholic church and also take pleasure in immersing yourself into the writing of one of the greatest authors of the 20th century.
I agree with the jacket copy that this is the best biography of Catherine of Siena, a true mystic and Saint of Christ.
It's one of those books so dense with truths that I plan to reread it, and possibly keep rereading it at different times in my life.
A total keeper and a hugger.
If you are the sort of person who hugs books.
Sometimes I kiss passages in books, too, as a way of saying, "Thank you, I get it!" Now you know.Update 11/15/16 I reread it and this time was able to blog about it without copying the entire text.
This is easily one of the most captivating biographies I have ever read, not to mention highly engrossing for it's historical content. Catherine was simply incredible, and Undset's writing has an intense quality of beauty (even translated.) In addition to giving a remarkable telling of Catherine’s life, Undset also conveys compelling insights into history, particularly in relation to the Catholic Church. In one way, I couldn't put the book down, yet in another way some chapters were burning with such great emotion, I had to set the book down to let it sink in before going on.
Fantastic biography of this remarkable, holy, and only slightly terrifying woman. Both humbling and inspiring.
If you're looking for a masterful biography that's also solid spiritual reading, this book is for you. I read part of our before tendering to Italy, part while visiting Siena and Santa Maria sopra Minerva, and just finished it back in the States. St. Catherine is an incredibly compelling figure with simple but powerful insight into Christian discipleship. She also lived in interesting times. A welcome reminder that grace is not cheap in any age.
Amazing Saint...amazing times....amazing example for all Christians and amazing wisdom. And we thought our papacy was messed up. Catherine dealt with worse, much worse and helped reform the Church from a feudal world to a world less devoted to nepotism, money and division and more focused on God's will. Loved this book and I truly wish all cardinals and bishops read this.
Fascinating and very readable. This biography of a saint is not just a parade of miracles and heroics (although it is that.) It is also very human portrait of a real person who accomplished those things, at great personal cost, in defiance of social convention. I wish Sigrid Undset had written a hundred more biographies of saints after reading this one.
Magnifica biografía de Catalina de Siena. Una mujer que en una época tumultuosa supo hacerse valer e influir decididamente en los acontecimientos históricos que le tocó vivir. Undset no solo retrata al personaje sino también la época con una gran lucidez y clarividencia.
It got tough reading Undset's old style hagiography of Catherine. It may be that I want to see her through 21st century eyes, rather than 19th century eyes. Maybe I'll try again another time, but I couldn't get more than a few chapters in.
It is a wonderful story of St. Catherine of Siena. I I went to Italy last year and when they would describe the scenery that she walked, I knew it and could picture it while I was reading it. I also saw the church and the relic of her in t he church. what a wonderful soldier of christ.
I'm rather picky about my hagiographies, but this one was quite good. It was accessible and easy to read, it made Catherine's life present in a way that remained interesting, and it didn't alienate the reader who doesn't share her incredible spiritual gifts! I quite liked it. :)
I have admired Saint Catherine from the many descriptions I read about her. But reading this book, and within it the many letters she wrote, was my first time to really get to know the passion and zeal of the Saint.
Not a light read, even with Undset's storytelling magic. A good read, though. Undset is sympathetic to Catherine of Siena but not cloyingly sweet. As such, Catherine is more human, more relatable, and very much a saint.
Excellent - Undset does a great job of helping you understand the world at the time from the perspective of a humble servant of God whose "power" was not derived from traditional social, political, military or religious sources. I couldn't put it down.
