https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7334201-super-sad-true-love-story
Shteyngart's crime is that he has written what appears to be an awful book.
The equations that we readers regularly calculate (as to a novel's readability, enjoyment factor, intellectual gratification, and so on) produced only the reminder that life was too short (or this book too long, depending upon your perspective) to bother with it.** I refer to Shteyngart's dystopia as 'vague' because it feels sketchy and not-well-thought-out.
Oh, did I read this book at the exact wrong time of my life.It's about a thirty-nine year old guy who is quickly losing what small traces of cool he ever had to middle-age as he is relentlessly mocked by a youth culture that finds him old, disgusting and out of touch.
An hour of that, and I felt like I should just wander outside and lay down in the snow to die so I wouldn’t take up precious resources that she’ll need.So I had to grit my teeth a lot while reading.It’s set in the near future where the current internetization of our personal lives has been turned up to 11.
Good dystopian sci-fi/satire takes extant conditions, processes, and directions and asks, “What if this goes on?” Shtetygart's collects many of the awful things about contemporary society and projects them forward, arriving at a dark and occasionally funny portrait of near-future America as a failed state.
Maybe the projections in Shteyngart’s theater may give some of us enough of a heads up as to what lies ahead that we might try changing course.
And by the end of the novel, both are published authors!) The book presents an America of the not-too-distant-future via what Shteyngart must think is oh so clever satire - women wear OnionSkin jeans (sheer pants worn without underwear) and shop at AssLuxury and JuicyPussy; no one reads actual books because they "smell." Everyone carries around tiny mobile devices called Apparats (there are some umlauts in there but I just don't give a fuck), which broadcast all your most intimate details while also acting as your blackberry/videophone/deusexmachina.
Every time young Eunice Park emails her Korean mother, Mrs. Park responds in such a poorly-worded manner, I felt racist just reading it (seriously Gary, the woman's lived in America for 20 years.
Lenny doesn't need his smart phone to tell him that Eunice is just the type of girl to receive his unconditional love.Unfortunately, Eunice is not a very warm person and although she admits to herself and her friends that she loves Lenny, she is living in a difficult world.
Associate with an attractive Korean girl and make your boss feel protective about you.In the New York that Shteyngart describes, there is no longer room for any class but the ultra rich.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Holy shitsnacks! What a snoozefest! Super Sad True Love Story is not a book I’d normally choose to read, but since I needed a final selection in order to complete my library’s Winter Reading Challenge I picked it up. Dear Library Winter Reading Challenge: I should cut you! I WASTED THREE DAYS OF MY LIFE THAT I WILL NEVER GET BACK ON THIS BOOK. I’M GOING TO SPOIL THE SHIT OUT OF THIS MOTHERF*&^%R!!!!!I’m fairly certain I’ll be accus
Super Sad True Love Story is not a book I’d normally choose to read, but since I needed a final selection in order to complete my library’s Winter Reading Challenge I picked it up.
I’M GOING TO SPOIL THE SHIT OUT OF THIS MOTHERF*&^%R!!!!!I’m fairly certain I’ll be accused of being too stupid to understand all of the “hilarious political satire” contained in this novel, so here’s a "pitcherbook" confirming I’m an idiot and explaining why I hated it.Super Sad True Love Story is a book about how America is destined to go in the toilet in the next week or so.Although Americans stood up and said they were going to make a difference .
BookFiendUSA: I see that you’ve been reading Super Sad True Love Story. Cute title, big hype. What’s it about?SandyBanks1971: It’s about this guy, Lenny Abramov, second-generation Russian Jewish-American, who is in his “very late thirties” and very bothered about it. He thinks that’s he’s a RAG who can’t get the girl anymore, and a failure in his job to get HNWIs to buy his company’s “life extension” programs.BookFiendUSA: I know that HNWI is High Net Worth Individual --- but what the hell is a
He thinks that’s he’s a RAG who can’t get the girl anymore, and a failure in his job to get HNWIs to buy his company’s “life extension” programs.BookFiendUSA: I know that HNWI is High Net Worth Individual --- but what the hell is a RAG?SandyBanks1971: Rapidly Aging Geezer.
Does it have some kind of a plot?SandyBanks1971: It’s mostly about Lenny and his awkward romance with Eunice Park, a Korean-American girl.
It’s from the book.BookFiendUSA: But does ANYTHING happen --- I mean besides the love story?SandyBanks1971: The climax of the story involves the “Rupture” --- after which the US as we know it is basically gone.
There are a few sentences good enough to share, but most of the writing is too boring for the story to not have a point.Basically, Lenny, a 39 year old salesman for an immortality laboratory, becomes obsessed with Eunice, a 24 year old Korean teen, while on a business trip.
If you encounter the same problem with every person you meet/work with, then the problem is likely you.I hate how lazy Lenny is, worrying about his fuckability/personality score in a bar but not buying new clothes until forced to by Eunice.
Lenny will always be lonely as long as he's obsessed with youth and status (or his lack of status) instead of trying to connect with people.
The part that tickles me the most, and where I think Shteyngart cuts to the bone of cultural hubris, is that this is another nail in the coffin for the cyberpunk dream of the Internet as a tool of connection, creation, and subversion.
Add on top of all that (the cultural commentary, the laughs, the love) Shteyngart's literary feat of writing from the perspective and in the language of two different protagonists with two very different styles!
wow WoW WOW!!Mightily Impressed with this modern classic.
Finally, someone with the guts to paint our beloved NYC in a perpetually negative, apocalyptic light.
(Is Gary Shteyngart the only one to do this, ever?) Romance in war in an alternative reality of modern(ish) day America--so hard to pull off and yet it is done masterfully.
Astute prose, the PERFECT details that are needed in a posh novel of the 2010's, leaves the sophisticated reader breathless, more--fully flabbergasted.
I would venture to say that it is absolutely perfect in its messiness, in its satirical orchestrations--flawless.
My current best friend in the office is a half-Chinese lady.
In this tragicomic dystopian novel Super Sad True Love Story, 39-y/o Russian-American Lenny Abramov falls in love with 24-y/o Korean-American Eunice Park.
It's kind of a reversal of fortune as Shteyngart depicts this interesting situation in more ways than one, i.e., that without no money, in the book.
Aside from that reversal, the novel also uses a lot of contrasts between the two: male vs female, old vs young, poor vs rich, literary addict vs non-reader, good old book vs e-book, long-term vs non-commitment, love vs lust, etc.
The polar opposite of my own writing, and my own aesthetics as a reader.Now, for the angry part...I was duped, hoodwinked, seduced by the media saturation surrounding this novel, by the all-star blurbs, by the clever book trailer, and, most importantly, by a glowing Times review from Michiko Kakutani, who calls this novel "supersad" (it's not sad) and "superfunny" (it's not funny) and claims that Shteyngart writes "movingly" (this, in fact, is the novel's greatest lack: it's not moving at all).I wanted to like this novel; I really did.
Readers may buy this book; it may get reviewed widely and well; hell, it may even win a major literary award; but none of that will change the fact that it's just not a good novel.It's satire, yes, but it's WAY too easy, and the events go WAY too far over the top.
If you ponder which designer to wear or carry will make the best impression to others, skip this book.
If you find "joy" in "communicating" via something you typed by thumb or via some shallow site like Facebook, then there probably just isn't any point in you reading this book.Two of my favorite quotes from the book:"And the looks on the faces of my countrymen—passive heads bent, arms at their trousers, everyone guilty of not being their best, of not earning their daily bread, the kind of docility I had never expected from Americans, even after so many years of our decline.
Cannot finish. Super gross whiny execution of pretty good idea (observations of a society obsessed with illiterate twenty-somethings who can't put down their smart-phonish "apparats" long enough to make eye contact). Gross middle-aged guy pursuing 86 pound teenager and seems only to engage in oral sex with the kind of detail I can live without. At least for the first 100 pages or so. I quit. One of those truly weird experiences...every paragraph, every page so blisteringly achingly funny and observant, but hung together on truly repulsive characters and motivation [other than to live forever] scant or non-existent.
This book only gets a star because the fact that I like words coincides with the fact that it contained words.It is a poorly imagined vision of the near future (one from which Shteyngart apparently already feels alienated, but not in an existential Orwellian way).
In Shteyngart's future sex is always awkwardly present - especially in the language he so eagerly tries to mimic.
He takes a satirical stab at the virtual speak of Gen-Y, missing completely, by making it oversexed and steeped in an outlandish hip-hop culture (imagine 40 year old men fist-pumping and calling each other "nee-gro").
Eunice talks in an absurd melange of grotesque future-slang, Valley Girl superficiality, and that kind of plodding "um I think that maybe it's kind of like [insert cliche here], whoa I just blew my own mind" talk that bad writers use to indicate that a character isn't exactly the brightest bulb in the box.Lenny condescends to her because she's been educated in Idiocracy-land where people only "scan texts" rather than reading and communicate largely in "Images" [capitalization in original], which makes no sense whatsoever in the age of Harry Potter and text messaging.
Cuốn sách thuộc thể loại dystopia đặt thế giới vào một tương lai gần nhưng cảm giác như thể cách chúng ta có vài bước chân.
Nỗi buồn vì chủ nghĩa vật chất lên ngôi, nỗi buồn về một thế giới rệu rã sắp đến hồi cáo chung, nỗi buồn về nỗi cô đơn trong đô thị rộng lớn, nỗi buồn vì sự hữu hạn của đời sống và vô tình của thời gian, nỗi buồn vì yêu và tình dục trong thời đại số hóa trở nên gấp gáp và vô cảm, nỗi buồn vì tình yêu sách vở trở thành điều lập dị và đáng khinh.
Hated Lenny and his old hipster pals so much that I didn't enjoy, an otherwise good read.
It seems Gary Shetyngat, wrote this book for smug "New York Times" reading intellectuals who are ashamed of thier own farts, don't own a T.V., tell people at cocktail parties how they would never eat Funyuns,refuse to shop at Wal-Mart but shop at Target, who are always the first to buy the new iphone 5 whatever the fuck it is now.
Fuck this bookThe fact that people act like Lenny and his pals angers me!
edit: downgrading this to one star, because I was thinking about this book today and all I can really remember is how much I hated it.I doubt I would have finished this if it wasn't required reading for a class.It was a bizarre mashup of American consumerism, societal decay, obsession with technology, the search for immortality, and depressing relationships that I wasn't able to get into.My main issue with this novel was really the main characters, though.
The decline of the US and rise of China, the rabid consumerism, the need to be constantly connected online and the total loss of interest in reading and literature.....
This book is a somewhat frightening vision of future America – one controlled by the police, owned by China (everything is “yuan-pegged”), manipulated by corporate retail, and slavishly beholden to youth culture.
Put some Lexin-DC concentrate under your eyes.” The Eternity Lounge was crammed full of smelly young people checking their äppäräti or leaning back on couches with their faces up to the ceiling, de-stressing, breathing right.
The even, nutty aroma of brewing green tea snuck a morsel of nostalgia into my general climate of fear.”Even though I found reading the acronyms of the new culture somewhat tiresome, they contributed to the satire on American values.
Shteyngart is so clever and creative and, as Eunice in this book would say, "brain smart," that he actually makes me realize I'm probably not cut out to be a writer myself.
Everyone who reads a book like this is going to be, well, a reader, in a time when there really aren't that many readers.
He's a dork, and you want him to come out on top, even though it's fairly clear from the start that this is a man who was not made for his times and probably cannot win.Super sad?
Super read it.
We were arguing about John Updike the other day, about how he "persists in the bizarre, adolescent belief that getting to have sex with whomever one wants whenever one wants to is a cure for human despair."* And now here's Shteyngart's protagonist, who looks like and is the same age as Shteyngart, with his much-younger girlfriend who looks "like a poster child for eternity":"'I'm worried about dying,' I said.'And she makes you feel young?' Grace said.'She makes me feel bald.'"I feel like Shteyngart's trying to weasel around the same accusations that get leveled against Updike, and other writers whose ids do much of the writing for them, with the bald crack - by insisting he's aware that this idea is pathetic.
But then he and the young lady have sex and "she groaned with what I hoped was pleasure" - and it's confirmed by her: "it wasn't bad.
Super Sad True Love Story is a novel set in a very near future—oh, let’s say next Tuesday—where the world is dominated by Media and Retail.
This Dystopian American back drop mixed with some very interesting concepts; including the fact everyone is ranked based on their Finances, Personality, Attractiveness and Fuckablilty, makes this a fresh and different style of novel.
Gary Shteyngart offers a witty and very humorous novel but this book goes much deeper than this; I found many interesting concepts in this book, which were well thought out and made for an opportunity to make in-depth conversations based on this book.
Upon finishing this novel, I rushed on to Goodreads expecting to see a ton of scathing reviews for this suckfest of a book.
Imagine my surprise and dismay finding myself in the overwhelming minority of Super Sad True Love Story Haters.
Well, too bad.
I'm calling it like it is...The emperor has no clothes!This book sucks aaaaaaaaaaassssssssssss.
Nothing redeemable.
Nothing entertaining.
Nothing worth my time.
All the critics are total whores and I feel snowed for reading this.
I am extremely glad to have put it behind me.
Ick.(Many props for this shining star of a review.
You really nailed it, David!)(First Reads Win.)
Although saturating the internet with Gary Shteyngart is very much in line with the theme of his dystopic love story set in a recognizable future where iPhone-like devices are called aparats, and everyone communicates on a social networking site called GlobalTeens, a hybrid of Facebook, YouTube, online banking, Google reader and "Am I Hot or Not." The texting dictionary has expanded to include things like JBF (just butt fucking), and TIMATOV (think I'm about to openly vomit).Lennie Abramov is, by pop standards, an old man.
I want to talk about this with people. And not on Facebook, because now that seems completely counterproductive. I never ever want to live in this world. Or know any of these people. Fast read and entertaining, once I got through the structure and world creation. Dystopia has a tendency to edge into silly for me, but I really had a good time with this. 3.5 stars.
Full of promise in the early going, with at least one truly inspired scene of grimly comic futurism. But man does this thing go down in flames. I can't imagine anyone giving a shit about the titular love story, and the satire gets less and less convincing. Fail.
Shteyngart does it all with tongue planted firmly in cheek.
Particularly delectable is the Orwellian requirement that state violations of civil rights be met with a response of denial that it happened and implication that the victim consent to the violation: Citizen are thus regularly called upon to “deny and imply.” Warning: Some of the language is foul.
Summing up one theme, Shteyngart has a character say, “Reading is difficult.
You know, a visual age.” And he aptly and amusingly warns of the untoward consequences of such a society's failure of literacy.
For the record, I made it to page 116.Shteyngart put a lot of effort into being funny, here, and sometimes it's almost painful, like being in an audience of 3 at an open mic stand-up attempt.
Goddamn.Reading this book is exactly like entering the douchiest bar in town.
Or am I going to dig for the humanity in them, connect to whatever small spark I find, and in so doing face my own capacity for douchiness?
Regardless you're probably going to start drinking, like, a lot.
And you know all the drinks at this cologned neon blue lit atrocity are going to be like 10 bucks each.My point is: why go into that bar at all.
This book started out with a bang, quick-witted, fast-paced writing involving a futuristic America whose scenarios are not a lot different than some of the possible scenarios I picture in my head for our future.
She's a shopping obsessed cute girl with daddy issues, who needs to be taken care of.
I don't like or care for either of them really as they don't do anything except whine in different ways about their shallowness.
