https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27690.Touch_Not_the_Cat
Youth and the idiocy with which it brings is the fault of this book.
Her entire fucking life talking to an imaginary "lover." One whose identity she doesn't know, one who might not even exist.
Maybe falling in love with ones' cousin was totally the rage then.
Being the wise old woman that I am, I think she's a bloody fucking moron.
I mean, I know that children do invent imaginary friends, but for heaven’s sake, they grow out of that, and it isn’t that, or anything like it!
Like most Mary Stewart mystery/romances, this book is a little dated: usually it's the massive smoking, nylon nightgowns and alpha heroes in MS novels; this time it's the ESP.
I thought Bryony's mysterious telepathic "lover" could have manned up and disclosed himself to Bryony much earlier in the story (except for the fact that keeping him secret prolongs some of the mystery for the reader) but the disclosure was very satisfying to me when it finally came.Touch Not the Cat is still not my favorite Mary Stewart novel - that would be Nine Coaches Waiting - but I liked it better this time than I did when I first read it, maybe 25 years ago.
It’s always so much fun to read with like-minded friends and this book was highly entertaining!Starting out, I knew there was a telepathic component to this gothic suspense novel, so I was a tad bit skeptical what with paranormal elements not exactly being ‘my thing’ and all.
Our heroine Bryony Ashley communicates with her mysterious ‘lover’ throughout, while at the same time trying to interpret the cryptic message her father left for her on his death bed.
However, there’s an underlying feeling of suspense throughout as the reader wonders about the identity of Bryony’s secret ‘lover’ and worries about her safety given the warning of danger she received upon her father’s death.
And as romantic suspense fiction goes Mary Stewart’s 1976 novel Touch Not the Cat is a classic of the genre.
Apart from her trilogy (plus one further spin-off) about Merlin, three children’s novels and a little poetry, all Mary Stewart’s novels feature this type; a smart, adventurous heroine who could hold her own in dangerous situations.Mary Stewart herself described Touch Not the Cat as “a modern adventure story spiced with romance (or romance spiced with adventure; it depends whether you are advertising it for men or for women)”.
Maybe in the 1970's Ashley Court would have been a giant white elephant, but Byrony's willingness to walk away from valuable possessions is baffling to me.Part of it is my lack of interest in the paranormal.
So while not a total sceptic, neither am I a blind believer & so a lot of this book was too woo-woo for me.The cousinly relationships don't usually worry me too much in 20th century books (another place, another time ) but this time it did because Byrony had been brought up with them so much.
(hide spoiler)] In particular any time James entered the story it felt weird & uncomfortable.In spite of this the beginning hooked me in, but a lot of the middle story dragged.
There is a reason why I have always loved Mary Stewart.
She can grab me and keep me and not release me until the last word is down on the last page.
I love her mix of mystery and romance, and having read this so long ago that I had zero memory of it, it was like a new mystery and a new romance...What Joy!
I know others will always argue with me that she isn't a "serious" writer, but I don't care.
Reading this took me right back to my youth in the most pleasant of ways.
In this offering, penned during the groovy 1970's, Stewart was no doubt making Touch Not the Cat more relevant for the time period by adding the gift of telepathy to her heroine Bryony Ashley, and Bryony's mysterious telepathic lover.Who is this mind-melding hero?
In fact, Touch Not the Cat really kept me mystified as to the identity of the telepathic lover right up until the reveal...and even then, Stewart didn't make it any easier for the reader to breathe a sigh of relief and mutter, "so that's who it was!".Not quite as strong IMO as some of her earlier suspense books, Touch Not the Cat is still a fun read, and well worth the time.
I've recently re-discovered Mary Stewart and even though I read this book many years ago, more than enough time has passed for me to feel it was a brand new read.
The only Mary Stewart title I have read often in the last 30 years or so was Airs Above the Ground (there are horses in it, it HAD to get read over and over) but I did not know if Touch Not The Cat would be as fast-paced as Airs.
Crossposted to  Gothic Book Reviews. 2 stars--it was okay.First, a warning: a character in this book uses the n-word, which shocked me in a Mary Stewart novel.I liked the telepathy elements of this book, and the setting (a crumbling manor house) is always a favorite. However, not a lot happened here. Mostly the heroine drifts from conversation to conversation and things happen around her--she's not very proactive. The ending is fast, and I'm not sure justice was done.Not her best, in my opinion.
4.5 Stars.
I loved it!
It's a great mystery with twins, an old family estate, a pretty large inheritance, paranormal elements, possible murder, a side mystery about two lovers, a moat, the coast, a strong female lead, a maze, and the word "cat" in the title.
I am beginning to get to reading or re-reads of all of Mary Stewart's books as I am having a fairly easy time collecting them (good hard backs) at used bookstores and thrift stores.
So much I liked about it.
I enjoyed this with 2 buddies, Candi and Julie, in the Reading For Pleasure Book Club.
I will likely read this again in a few years.
Although I don't remember exactly, I'm guessing that it was the first romance novel I ever tackled, the first of many in my grandma's set of Reader's Digest Condensed Books that I would devour.I've read many articles in which women my age confess that Lloyd Dobler, the teenager from Say Anything who dramatically holds a radio over his head to profess his love, forever ruined any chances a normal boy had of sweeping them off their feet.
As she tries to sort the puzzle left by her father, Bryony also has a secret of her own to resolve - longer than she can remember she's had a telepathic connection with an unknown "lover" who she believes will reveal himself in the flesh to her when the time is right, and she’s always felt it was her cousin James.
Who is the Cat her fathered referred to in his last words - the family emblem of the Scottish Wildcat and their motto Touch not the cat?
What secret does the book found in the old library with the same family emblem hold?
How well I remember reading those think pieces of the day that explored telepathy, the Loch Ness Monster, UFO's, and even Big Foot sightings.
At any rate, this captivating tale by Mary Stewart has brought back some fond memories of lazy summer afternoons my sister and I spent trying to read each other's thoughts.
Lori, circa 1976, would have loved this book had she only discovered this wonderful author at the library.
At least Lori, circa 2017, has not only discovered Mary Stewart but is often found happily curled up with one of her books.
I had so thoroughly enjoyed Rose Cottage, that I was eager for another Mary Stewart novel; therefore, I turned to Touch Not the Cat, one of her most famous works.With a supernatural flavor missing in Rose Cottage, Touch Not the Cat tells the story of 21-year-old Bryony Ashley, the descendant of a ruthless family that predates the Norman Conquest, a family once so exalted that the future Cardinal Wolsey had been their parish priest.
Needless to say, Bryony is about to learn more about her family than she ever wanted to know.
So IMHO I consider this a HR.Had I known that the hero was such a mystery and not to be revealed until about 80%, and that it was a clean read, I most likely would have put this donwn as a DNF, AND since no one on friggin GR or Amazon gave the "lover" away in their reviews, I just had to keep reading to find out who it was.IT'S ROB!!!!!!!!!!!!There.
It's 1st person POV, which I don't usually care for unless the author switches it to show multiple POV's like AR does, but here we only get inside the heroine's head and that of Nick Ashley the rakish ancestor from the 1800's.Right, so the heroine, hmm.
It was one of the first Mary Stewart books I read, and it’s one of the more openly fantastical ones.
It’s got the usual set up of the plucky young heroine, a landscape that’s important to her or exotic or otherwise worth describing lovingly, and the man she eventually marries.
The fantastical part is the telepathy between them, the bond; Stewart uses it well, creating interesting dilemmas and confrontations.The story of the twins is a little disappointing, because so obvious; we don’t see enough of James’ struggle against his twin to see him as any kind of victim in the situation, and his reaction to Rob and Bryony’s marriage seals that.
The derelict manor house, the overgrown maze the secret gazebo all became vivid in my mind.Sadly the story just didn’t grab me.
When Bryony's father dies, his house and land will not go to her because she is a woman, but she does have a say in if or when it is sold.
This wasn't touched upon very much in the part I read, which would have made the story more After the very slow start – there was a bit of excitement in the middle – and then got slow again until the climax at the end.
I just adore this book.
I love the way it unwinds, I love the characters, I love the peril—which seems so real, and ties into the past so well—and the story-within-the-story at the end of each chapter.
The heroine is likeable and believable, and it all comes together perfectly with a swoonworthy hero.
So, so very worth the read.
This was, if I'm counting correctly, my fourth time through the book, and still I couldn't put it down.
This is one of those books that I enjoy re-reading from time to time, in fact I have just bought it again in hard cover as my old paperback was in pieces.In this era of portable phones and ever-present electronic communication, the concept of “thought transference” may sound tame and obsolete, but if one is prepared to be transported back to a simpler time (and, let's face it, for most of us fiction represents escapism), entering this novel's atmosphere will plunge the reader into a world at once disconcerting and curiously comforting.The “gift” of the Ashleys provides an eerie recurring theme which runs through the story like a golden thread, and there is plenty of intrigue, dark deeds and greed-fuelled violence, however, the dominating element is romance.
In this novel, Mary Stewart gives us an unashamedly romantic love story, in fact more than one, as there is a parallel subplot running alongside the main one.
How can you not love a book that mixes the mundane with the paranormal, the present with the past, and a love story with a mystery. And all with effortless ease...
Touch Not the Cat is the one I chose to read first and it didn't disappoint.The main plot centers on a young woman, named Bryony (never heard that name before) who is a member of the old, but now nearly impoverished, Ashley family.
She has a paranormal gift: she can communicate telepathically with a person that she calls "Lover" and "Ashley" and whom she assumes to be one of her cousins that she grew up with.
It is this complexity of plot, along with the lush English garden setting that actually makes the book still worth reading - that and the discovery of an ancient Roman mosaic of a leopard (hence the family crest/motto and the title of the book.3.5 stars.
A plucky heroine Bryony, with a telepathic gift that’s popped up in her ancestors now and again – check.Bryony’s father dying under mysterious circumstances – check.A convoluted inheritance and the furtive, faintly menacing cousins with obscure goals – check.A simple but charming (and handsome, of course) castle caretaker as a romantic interest – check.The enigmatic title – Touch Not the Cat – which is the motto of the Ashley family – check.
As in many Stewart’s stories, the place – the castle and its surroundings – is almost another character.
The second flaw of this story was the secret identity of one of the characters – Bryony’s telepathic interlocutor.
When I read this book as a teenager I fell in love with it.
It was the Reader's Digest version, and I read it again a few years later when I found the paperback.
But as I read it again yesterday (30+ years later) I realized that it doesn't live up to my memory.
Oh yes she cried once on her father's death, but there's a lot that happens to her but leaves her untouched.
I didn't mind the book was dated, I mean, it's obvious and expected.
A book can't be outside time.
But I realized I was skimming a lot the never ending descriptions of plants, buildings etc.
I've read this book several times over the years...Mary Stewart is one of my favorite authors even though she isn't contemporary. It's probably a nostalgia thing. This one has a kind of fantastical quality that her other (romantic suspense) books don't have. It's still enjoyable.
Previše opisa imanja i njegove istorije, kao i dosadnih razgovora. Glavna junakinja ni u jednom trenutku nije započela neku akciju što se valjda očekuje kad čitate nešto što su okarakterisali kao suspense mystery. Telepatski momenat sa njenim "ljubavnikom" neću ni da komentarišem.
In the course of half the book, we see the heroine return to her family estate, discover missing items and finding out what happened to missing items.
While on his deathbed, her father mentioned some cryptic mutterings which might, or might not, lead to a treasure.
This wasn't touched upon very much in the part I read, which would have made the story more interesting for me.I'm also not too sure I got the family members separated correctly.
Whenever a name was mentioned, I needed a minute to try and figure out who she was talking about.I would have liked to have finished this book, but unfortunately, could not bring myself to pick it up once I got to another dry passage.
My first by Stewart***1992 Jan 01Holds up amazingly well, still suspenseful, romantic, and surprisingly realistic***2009 July 14One of those early-read and therefor beloved books. Even back in 76 or so, when I had very little experience reading romance, it was clearly a different sort. More like Rebecca than anything else. A romantic thriller with a surprising amount of realism, and the Stewart trademark: tons of literary references.Still holds up. Still beloved.
I'm reading my way back through Mary Stewarts and enjoying them.
This one was recommended by Alison L because I like the ones with a touch of magic best, and it was exactly what I wanted - so thank you!
As ever, first person, as you'd expect a little bit quaintly dated, but as always a great story, a nice romance, and some nasty baddies.
I really enjoyed this, a fun, gently and beautifully written read with lots of action, though I confess I got a tiny bit bored towards the end, hence the 3 and not 4 stars.
But I'm already looking at her backlist to see what I'll read next.
My first Mary Stewart. It was enjoyable, I just found myself giggling whenever Bryony would say, "Lover?" It was a little too cheese ball for me, and had me thinking of the snl hot tub skit w Will Ferrell. But all the rest was great. Definitely will read another one of hers.
DNFBored me to tears!
