https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169446.The_Sea_and_Poison
وقد حدث خلال الحرب أن استخدم ثمانية أسرى من سلاح الجو الأمريكي لإجراء تجارب طبية عليهم وقد شارك في هذه العملية أثنا عشر من العاملين في مجال الطب، تعرضوا جميعاً للمحاكمة ودكتور سوجورو هو أحد هؤلاءإذا كان مفهوم "مستنقع اليابان"( وهو المفهوم المحوري في أعمال إندو الروائية كافة) يتخذ في رواية "الصمت" بعداً دينياً، فيغدو رمزاً لعجز اليابان عن تقبل مفهوم الألوهية المسيحي واستيعابه، فإن هذا المفهوم، الذي يمتص كل ما يأتي من خارجه، فيغيره ويحيله إلى جزء من ذاته، يأخذ في "البحر والسم" بعداً أخلاقياً هو في الواقع امتداد للبعد الديني.اليابان، على نحو ما تناهت إلى وعي إندو، مستنقع هائل عاجز عن الاستقبال الإيجابي لما هو مفارق لذاته، وفي الوقت نفسه فإن البشر، الذين يعيشون في رحابه، تضيع منهم في غمار دفئه المخدر
The doctors view these patients' lives as hopeless and unworthy, whose only value is to serve to advance medical science, even if it means they must die premature and pain filled deaths.After an unfortunate accident, Suguro and Toda are "invited" to participate in the operation on the downed airman.
Based on a real story, it served as one of the first novels that openly criticized acts committed by Japan in wartime against its citizens, enemies and prisoners of war, and brought to light some of the atrocities that the world would learn about in later years.
The structure of many of Endo's novels may seem "unfinished", but I think that misses the spirit of his work. It is not about finishing in the western sense; it has more to do with the angst of internal struggle, and in that department, it has few equals. Sparse and precise, which most writers can't hope to manage.
كيف تقتل الحرب الشعور بالذنب في نفوس ضحياها؟! .والآثار الجانبية التي تصيب النفس البشرية جراء الحرب. الموت والمعانأة والجوع كلها أشياء تقتل النفس والضمير تجعل الأنسان شخص متبلد المشاعر لا يتأثر بموت أحد أو حتى قتل أحد.
This was my first encounter with Endo, and I came away a fan. Historically rooted, the story line itself would have been enough to hold my attention. But his ability to show the dichotomy of the tenets of Catholicism and traditional Japanese culture was masterful, subtle, and intriguing. A must-read for any fan of Japanese literature.
يكتب شوساكو اندو هذه الرواية ناسجًا أحداثها لإظهار صراع الإنسان مع ضميره، أعجبني عمق الوصف في أحداث الرواية
Suguro was part of the team of Doctor Hashimoto (aka the Old Man), an aging surgeon married to a German woman named Hilda.
Repudiated by her worthless husband, she is easily persuaded by cynical Doctor Asai to assist in the vivisection, simply because it makes her feel good to know something about Hashimoto that his wife Hilda won't be told.
Everything about this book is compelling, but especially the portrait of Toda, the man who despairs of mankind because he has found out that he has no conscience, and that his predicament is not unique.
ضمن أحداث رواية (الصمت) لنفس كاتب هذه الرواية شوساكو إندو، وخلال تحقيق حاكم ناجازاكي إينوي مع الراهب
Deals with several characters who were, in one capacity or another, party to the vivisection of an American prisoner of war. The book discusses what brought them to that place and how they rationalized or dealt with their involvement in the deed. Although the vivisection is central to the story, very little of the book actually deals with that event; it's not a "grisly" novel in that sense. It's more a story about morality and how people come to and then cope with the decisions they make.
Why, I wondered."In Fukuoka, as a young intern in a TB hospital during the war, Suguro had been presented with an opportunity for the advancement of his career if he would take part in an experiment, which was presented to him as a way to further science.
Suguro was only one of several doctors and nurses that would take part in the vivisection of American POWs who were already slated to be executed.
Endo raises many issues--the question of conscience and guilt, of culpability (does being present but not participating still taint one?), of responsibility and of what is ethical and moral in science--well, at least these are things that crossed my mind as I was reading.
A while later, whilst at a family wedding, he meets another doctor who is a fellow guest, they get chatting & he finds out that the other doctor knew Suguro & through his tale we learn about Dr Suguro’s past.During the 2nd world war, Suguro worked as an intern at Fukuoka medical school & whilst there became involved with medical experiments on some American prisoners of war, these included live vivisection & injecting air into their veins to find out how quick they’ll die.
Even when the day of judgement comes, they’ll fear only the punishment of the world, of society”So what is a moral dilemma for Suguro, even if it’s one that through his submission he cannot act upon, causes Toda a momentary concern of how society would view his actions.
In my view, reading The sea and poison is the most delightful experience since it shows the Japanese spirit during the WWⅡ.First of all, this story is based on a non-fiction story.
It is very interesting the way how they look the American military.Secondly, The sea and poison reproduces Japanese characters faithfully.
I think foreigners can understand those Japanese peculiar thoughts more easily from this book.The most obvious reason for recommending this book is the author, Shusaku Endo's writing style.
You have my word.Therefore, I highly recommend you to read Shusaku Endo's The sea and poison.
Like all Endo novels it is a very easy read.
This book deals with the morality of killing captured POWs for the sake of advancing medical techniques and knowledge.
Very little time is dedicated to the surgeries, this book deals mostly with telling the story of the main characters as they deal with this large moral issue.A lot of Japanese literature focuses on outsiders, and disenfranchised.
Endo seems to be from a different league of writers.
Although he is Japanese, his books don't read like typical Japanese novels.
I hope that makes some sense to people who read a lot of Japanese authors..
Втора отлична история от Шюсаки Ендо и то на тема, която е табу не просто в японската, но и в световната литература, а именно експериментите с хора. Извършителите - лекари, клели се да спасяват човешки животи. Ендо ни показва лицата на тези чудовища -съвсем обикновени хора, всеки със своето минало и своята история.Определено си струва да се прочете.
Човек трябва да контролира какви текстове допуска до съзнанието си, защото животът е кратък и количеството книги, което може да прочете е ограничено.
The operation is not necessary from a medical point of view and it will end with the death of the woman, but since she is “only” a welfare patient and will probably die anyway from her disease, the responsible doctor is not hesitating to use her (without her knowledge or even consent) for this human experiment in the name of a very doubtful "scientific progress",Suguro finally gives in to participate in this surgery which is supposed to bring at least some more scientific results and might help to find a better treatment for similar cases in the future.
If you've ever read Endo Shusaku's most famous novel, "Silence," then you are already familiar with his ability to draw out powerful emotions from historical events, to make you feel the impact of human action in a way that is timeless.
One by one Endo shows us how the various characters are caught up in events that move them toward the finality of murder.
All of the characters in "Sea and Poison" do these things to various people in their lives.
His cowardice is revolting, and like Suguro toward the old woman, Rodrigues despises him in spite of all his efforts to love him unconditionally.
The narrative shifts from one perspective to the next, leaving little room for me to understand and connect with the characters.
The novel itself deals with a medical team who performs vivisections on WWII prisoners in Japan, and the narrator shifts from each person in the medical team to the next.
The novel's theme deals with the ethical responsibility of each person in wartime and mankind's attempt to reason away its sinfulness.Interestingly, The Sea and Poison won the Akutagawa prize, so it might just be Gallagher's translation that created a bit of a distance for me and the characters.
Ако беше просто книга като всички други, щях да я мисля два дни, но тази е по действителен случай и ще си я спомням винаги, защото ще остави много въпроси.
Хубава ли е една професия, за която са необходими много знания, а някъде по пътя ,,изяжда" всичко човешко?Хуманно ли е в името на науката да сме нехуманни?А войната параван ли е?Естествено, няма как да подмина и асоциацията на лекарите с учителите..Честно казано в момента съм се зарила с тонове учебници до края на ноември и едва намерих време за това книжле, ако знаех какво пише вътре, изобщо нямаше да го погледна.
Namun, saya sudah membaca dua karya Endo yang lain: When I Whiste (1974), yang sudah pernah saya buat resensi singkatnya; dan yang kali ini diresensi, The Sea and Poison (1958).Dikisahkan seorang narator tidak bernama pindah ke Matsubara Barat, kawasan permukiman di pinggiran kota Tokyo.
Endo seperti memberikan suatu gambaran dalam bentuk titik-titik di mana akhirnya pembaca sendiri yang menyambungkan titik-titik tersebut.Tidak hanya itu, novel ini semakin bertambah istimewa dengan kegamblangan Shusaku Endo menuturkan kekejaman Jepang pada masa Perang Dunia II.
Ia tutup usia pada tahun 1996.Bagi pembaca yang terbiasa dengan Jepang yang futuristik dan surealis, mungkin tidak menemukannya dalam karya Shusaku Endo.
Endo is not concerned with the grotesque but with motivation and moral considerations.A prologue is told from the first-person perspective of a nondescript character who, in a post-war Tokyo suburb, goes to a doctor for TB treatment.
The incessant firebombing of Fukuoka is a vivid backdrop to this section.Then, just before the vivisections are to begin, there are what seem to be confessions (perhaps at the trial), told in the first person, by two minor figures involved, a nurse and another intern, Toda, who were supporting characters in the previous section.
So it stared at me from my bedside for a few months, waiting, until I finally decided that I had to finish this book once and for all and then plowed through the rest in two sittings.The story takes place just prior to Japan’s defeat in WWII, and tells the story of how an American prisoner was vivisected at Fukuoka Medical School, in what was, horribly enough, hardly an isolated incident at the time.The story is told from a total of four points of view.
الرواية فيها تحليل ل3 أشخاص شاركوا فى العمليات دى : ممرضة و دكتورين صغيرين ، الأسباب النهائية اللى خلتهم يوافقوا مكانش محددة أوى ، بالذات مع الدكتورين ، واحد منهم مثلا وافق وهو فى نوبة حمى و غثيان جتله بعد هاجس ملح بريحة الموت اللى بيشمها لما يخش عنابر المرضى ، و الغثيان المفرط ، المرتبط بتركيزه البصرى على نقطة محددة : مجمرة بيتحرق فيها بخور و يخرج دخان أزرق ،خلاه يتقبل الموضوع و يوافق ، رغم قلقه المتطرف .
كل الجرايم فى الرواية ليها تبرير ، الأسرى الأمريكان كده كده كانوا هيموتوا لأنه محكوم عليهم بالإعدام ، بس التجارب اللى اتعملت عليهم أفادت الطب .
What would compel a man to dehumanize, torture, and murder his fellowman?This is a question at the heart of Endo Shusaku’s painfully brilliant The Sea and Poison – my third Endo novel after Silence and Deep River, two of my favorite pieces of literature.
While less overtly religious, The Sea and Poison is teeming with spiritual, ethical, and moral questions that appear to be hallmarks of Endo’s work.Set against the background of experimental vivisections performed on American prisoners of war during World War II, Endo’s focus is on the the participatory characters – the doctors and nurses – rather than the victims.
Powerful short novel that deals with the life of a Japanes physician poisoned by the experience, as an intern, of bearing witness to medical experiments on American POW's, in Japan during WW11.
Imposition of mind numbing military totalitarianism on a people produces a loss of conscience.
The evolution of conscience in a social form requires freedom of choice.
In the short term, as described by Terrence Des Pres, conscience does not die even under extreme adversity.
However, a system that raises children to obey an irrational set of dictates and imposes them with brutality will destroy conscience as witnessed by Tomba in this novel.
«El mar y veneno es la primera gran novela de Shusaku Endo.»The Guardian«Una denuncia del conformismo y la pasividad. Aquellos que consienten un crimen, dice Endo en El mar y veneno, son tan culpables como los que participan en él con entusiasmo.»Time magazine«De todos los novelistas japoneses, Shusaku Endo es el más próximo a los lectores occidentales.»The Spectator«Menos mal que todavía tenemos novelistas que celebran las virtudes (...) del comportamiento decente de las personas. Pocos novelistas contemporaneos lo hacen de forma más satisfactoria que Shusaku Endo.»The Scotsman
somewhat surprised to find something so intensely critical of the crazy doctor experiments japanese did in ww2 to get published within a decadeish of the events but form of the novel in general wasnt realy doing much for me. prologue is a bit of a wash and a lot of the other flashbacks are just hazy indifferences to some seriously fucke dup dudes vivisecting live bodies and eating american livers. i got a bad sunburn trying to finish this book and avoid putting on suntan lotion at the beach but i do not hold it against shusaku endo
In fact, sixty years later, Endo’s novel functions as a warning of increasing threats against human life by those who should be in the business of protecting it, physicians.The novel’s plot is simple, yet horrifying: Dr. Suguro participates in the vivisection of American prisoners of war in Japan.
The passive voice verb shows that the dehumanization affects not only the POWs, but the doctors themselves, who are the agents of the killings.A final remarkable thing about this novel is that Endo’s religious principles are unobtrusive.
A disturbing novel about ordinary people's capacity for evil. Interesting insights into Japanese society's relationship with the West, modernity, and the legacy of WWII, which it is still grappling with today.
Extraordinary treatment of a horrifying theme
