https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1055914.Living_My_Life_Vol_1
We won't even go into the chasms between the two in practice or compassion.The most popular theoretical credits that Goldman gets are for significantly influencing activism on issues of sexual liberty, reproductive rights, and freedom of expression.
The book has no ending, and I would really like to know about her contributions to the Spanish Civil War...For that I am told that one must read Richard Drinnon's and Alice Wexler's biographies of Emma.I suppose it could be also possible for the lyrical or literary types to be critical of lyrical qualites and literary conventions, or propensity for emotional outbursts.
I was always a bit "eh" on Emma Goldman because I read her essays and didn't find them earth-shattering.
Plus I don't always agree with her political analysis -- her race-blind attitude was particularly unfortunate.
You could say it was par for the times, but she was so far ahead on so much else that I expected more -- and anyway that's rubbish, lots of people critiqued her race politics at the time.
Goldman knew a lot of interesting people, and it's very strange and humanising to read about her trying and failing to make friends with one famous anarchist, or having a bitter breakup with another.
La edición de Capitán Swing es bastante descuidada, si le sirve a alguien de advertencia.
“For the Cause, I was told, one must be able to do everything, and I so eagerly wanted to serve the Cause.”Whatever your ideals, the story of Emma Goldman’s life is inspiring.
She often writes of working “for my ideal.” It struck me that hers was a positive rather than negative stance.
We often fight against things, but how often do we fight for something, let alone for our ideal?
What might we accomplish if we did?This volume ends with an attack by vigilantes in San Diego, her lover abducted and tortured, and death threats when she continues on to Seattle.
This woman was involved in some serious stuff; it is amazing to read about all the radicals she worked with, how they lived their lives, how they related to one another.
But her life was also so much more than that of a radical activist - this woman loved, suffered heartbreak, faced physical torment, experienced familial strife, had to move around like crazy - there is so, so much to relate to.
I love reading her introspection regarding The Cause - can a true believer have outside interests?
EG is a total badass. Love her. Few people are as true to their convictions as she. A free spirit, an idealist, an intellectual, and a fighter, EG is a pretty good writer to boot. In her autobiography she not only chronicles the details of her polemic public life, but also intimately bares her internal struggles with the tensions and contradictions between her intellectual principles and her heartfelt emotions. It is sometimes hard to believe that this is not the stuff of fiction.
Of course, it is told from the perspective of a participant with the benefit of hindsight, and thus is not strictly "objective," but this is arguably true of any source written after the fact.This volume follows Goldman from her political awakening at the age of seventeen in 1886 through about 1911, when she was engaged in a speaking tour across the United States and hounded by violent patriotic "Vigilantes." 1886, of course, was the year of the Haymarket Affair in Chicago, when several anarchist and labor speakers were accused of throwing a bomb at police who were breaking up a meeting in favor of the 40-hour work week.
Volume 1: Emma's turbulent life (1869-1940)is spell binding.
Her admirable determination and strong fighting spirit enabled her to travel about and lecture during the 20th century as an anarchist and feminist.
She spent time in prison for her efforts and her strong beliefs.
She tells her life story here, how she lectured wherever she could, when she could, in many parts of the world.
Her fight for free speech was continual.
Her humanity is shown through the introduction of stories about her family, friends and associates who were a big part of her life.
Great autobiography by an extraordinary woman. Not only a gripping read but also works as a great history book of early workers rights activism in the united states. Interesting how freedom of speech was so suppressed during this period (end of 1800 and the beginning of 1900). Is also gives a picture of early 20th century international political history. Will definitely read Vol 2.

I read it when I first moved away to the big city, and it was the perfect book to read at that time.
Changed my life, although would you believe I never did get around to reading volume 2?*** More recent review: I reread this for the monthly anarchist reading group here in Pittsburgh, and it was my first time reading it in 15 years.
I'm not saying I'm as awesome as Emma Goldman, but reading this book a second time gave me the perspective of looking at a life as a narrative.
THIS BOOK WAS SO INTENSE!!EG is truly an inspiration, as well as a good writer.
It's a long book and full of every detail but she keeps yr interest with her bold, clear narrative voice - i assume the same compelling voice that swayed many of her contemporaries at her lectures.
I hope i can take some of her bravery, determination and compassion with me moving forward.Highly, highly recommended - it is especially important to read the words of people we so often only learn of secondhand.
I can't believe it took me so long to read this given that I love autobiographies and this one is regarded as such a classic.
Maybe the length of Emma's work made me apprehensive.
I was particularly engrossed by how much detail she provides on her relationships, but this seamlessly weaves in and out of her anarchism.
Even our contemporary ga-ga for open-relationships scene would raise an eyebrow at something like this.
I could talk about the rest of this book for a long time, so I'll just leave it there.
What an amazing life!
And I'm only have way through!
This is an incredible read.
What strikes me is that in my encounters with people talking about Emma Goldman--people who haven't read her actual work or those that simply repeat what they have heard from others--is how she is usually cornered into one essential archetype; what I love about reading these volumes is running into the contradictions and the consistencies in her own work and life and how not even Emma Goldman was a perfect human.
Anyone who tells you Emma hated Rochester, NY hasn't read this autobiography.
An awe inspiring read. The witty and conversational style of Emma Goldman's autobiography cannot mask what an intelligent and amazing woman she was. Ahead of her time, in fact probably ahead of our time, she was a pioneer in politics and the women's movement. With commentary on the historically important events of her time this book is both enchanting and educational with more than a slight bias away from the more traditional and institutionally approved texts. I look forward to getting my hands on volume 2.
This is a long and involved read; it is also an excellent one. Emma Goldman had a singular personality, and the list of her accomplishments is incredible. There is a lot to digest in this book, including the lot of immigrants in late-19th century America; the history of the anarchist movement; and the difficulties that a strong-minded woman met growing up at this time.I really enjoyed this, and I look forward to reading the second volume next year.
This is a dense autobiography which somehow manages to be both intersting and nap inducing. Maybe it's the 19th century writing style that put me to sleep. Maybe i was overwhelmed by the large number of pages in this book (and this is only volume 1!). In any case, through sheer force of will, I read the whole thing.
Enjoyed this more than I thought I would ! Originally started reading it as an academic exercise and to find out some background behind historical events at the time, but Goldman is an engaging writer . Never realised she was so vociferous about birth control and non-monogamy . Will continue to Volume 2 when I get my hands on it !
My father gave me this autobiography when I was 13. For better or worse it has shaped my entire lifeThis is one of the most beautiful revolutionary perspectives from the Industrial Age. What Emma Gloldman and Alexander Berkman were propelled to do in the name of social change is the stuff of fairy tales.
one of the books that changed my life. although i don't agree with everything emma did or said, she was so inspirational and strong. and definitely lived HER life. which not a lot of us can say about ourselves.
She traveled around the country, had a lot of boy toys and best of all, had nothing insightful to say about class, race or settler colonialism in America (read her complaints about black prisoners in a work otherwise totally devoid of a examination of race and cringe).
High school. This book is written as an autobiography and covers the life of Emma Goldman. The language of the book is extremely passionate and written in a descriptive and approachable language. This book would be used during a contemporary U.S history course for labor and immigration issues.
Autobiography of Emma Goldman was a riveting read.
really interesting and packed with lots of historical events surrounding anarchy. not a masterpiece but a very important book and a fun page turning as well. i'm looking forward to volume 2!
An amazing woman, an amazing human being, and a very good writer. So refreshing to find someone who truly lives their life with the courage of their convictions
More people should know about this amazing mind.
She's just the best. Read it.
I love this book for its wonderfully dramatic writing style, sucha delightful product of its time.
wonderful person, amazing life and book!
Emma Goldman is an amazing orgnanizer and speaker, and this book mostly chronicles her peronal experiences and journals. Great reading, but unfortunately doesn't include many of her speeches.
