https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325418.Doctor_Dolittle_s_Puddleby_Adventures
Doctor Dolittle's Puddleby Adventures (Doctor Dolittle, #12), Hugh Loftingعنوان: ماجراهای پادلبای، داستانهای دكتر دولیتل شماره ترتیب نشر در ایران 4؛ شماره گذاری کتاب در گودریدز 12 و آخرین اثر است؛ نویسنده: هیو لافتینگ؛ برگردان: محمد قصاع؛ ویراستار: اكبر میرجعفری و فرهنگ عمرانی؛ ناشر: تهران، محراب قلم؛ سال نشر 1385؛ در 160 ص؛ گروه سنی: 10 تا 12 سال؛ كتاب شامل هشت داستان از زبان جانوران است. دكتر دولیتل، شخصیت اصلی، زبان جانوران را میفهمد. به خاطراتشان گوش میدهد و در ماجراهایشان نقش دارد. موضوع بن
Doctor Dolittle's Puddleby Adventures (Doctor Dolittle, #12), Hugh Loftingعنوان: ماجراهای پادلبای، داستان‌های دكتر دولیتل شماره ترتیب نشر در ایران 4؛ شماره گذاری کتاب در گودریدز 12 و آخرین اثر است؛ نویسنده: هیو لافتینگ؛ برگردان: محمد قصاع؛ ویراستار: اكبر میرجعفری و فرهنگ عمرانی؛ ناشر: تهران، محراب قلم؛ سال نشر 1385؛ در 160 ص؛ گروه سنی: 10 تا 12 سال؛ كتاب شامل هشت داستان از زبان جانوران است.
دكتر دولیتل، شخصیت اصلی، زبان جانوران را می‌فهمد.
موضوع بنیادین این 8 داستان فانتزی كوتاه و جانوری، عشق انسان به جانوران و نگهداری از آن‌هاست.
زبان كتاب روایی و طنزآمیز است
Doctor Doolittle is a veterinarian who can talk to animals, he can can speak to almost every species .
Life takes a turn of events for Doolittle when he meets Tommy Stubbens a boy who would like nothing better than to be a naturalist like his idol and mentor Doctor Doolittle.
They eventually go on to travel the world on grand adventures.
I liked this book because it was about grand adventure that kept the reader captivated and the author Hugh Lofting created genuine and relatable characters.
This is a great book that I would definitely read again!
This book is an entertaining adventure and great for all ages to share. So much fun.
Dr Doolittle experiences a number of financial ups and downs due to his love of his animals and his inability to turn any animal away from his home, whether it is a crocodile, that scares away all of his patients, or a monkey from Africa, named Chee-Chee.
Dr Doolittle has again managed to scare away his paying patients when Chee-Chee lets him know that the monkeys in Africa have contracted a serious illness and desperately need his help.
After a series of mishaps, Dr Doolittle arrives in Africa and manages to find his way to monkey land and to set about assisting the sick monkeys.
Charming and funny, and I love the illustrations. I am surprised that they have so many adventures. I didn't expect it to be so suspenseful. I like the style of writing very much. It's simple and direct, doesn't try hard to be cute or to send a message, but it accomplishes both very nicely. I'm looking forward to reading more of them.
Just finished reading the Adventures of Doctor Doolittle on my Kindle Reader--it was a free offering and I managed to read it off my Android telephone. The story is fun and imaginative, mostly an adventure quest where a young boy meets a mentor because of his love of animals. They take a trip to Spider Monkey Island, a floating island off the coast of Brazil and run into many experiences.
Although I tend to really like this series by Hugh Lofting, this particular set of stories isn't as strong as some of the other freestanding works. If this is your first foray into the world of (the original) Dr. Dolittle, I would start with another selection first.
Awesome, so awesome! I never read this as a child. Gianni and I read it together. It was an anniversary edition with new illustrations. Just brilliant. And we borrowed it from the Free Library! Wut wut!! Love the FLP!
Good book.
A collection of short stories, not as compelling as the full-lengh novels. On the other hand, there are very few children's short stories about an adventurous maggot!
<3
ebook
Loved it.
