https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9526828-storm-clouds-rolling-in
This book should be labeled Christian historical fiction and not romance. It was okay but not what it was purported to be. Just a bit too verbose.
This is the first in a series of novels, and I am already starting the second.
Being compared to Gone with the Wind is inevitable, but these books are more historically accurate in their portrayal of slavery and the turmoil leading up to the Civil War. The characters are interesting and likable, except of course for the evil overseer.
Carrie, the main character, is a child of the plantation/slavery way of life, but struggles to believe that people were meant to be owned by someone.
Would recommend this one, especially for anyone interested in Civil War era novels.
The reader is told everything and doesn't see the development of character changes.
As new historical developments occur, the reader is subjected to long speeches of one character to the others gathered around to be spoken to as attendees at a lecture hall.
Characters who clearly experience PTSD for months suddenly hear the voice of a non-family member's child and immediately respond in recovery!For anyone who truly enjoys historical fiction, who enjoys good literature and who appreciates quality will find this series on Civil War America sadly lacking and a waste of time.
4 STARS - I REALLY LIKED ITAUDIOBOOKThis book is historical fiction set during the time leading up to the American Civil War. I found it interesting and entertaining.
There were several different characters that we followed, the book showed plantation owners who believed that slavery was a responsibility given to them by God and we saw people who worked under-ground to free slaves because they believed that God created all people to be free.
This story does not end with book 1 but rather leads up to just as the war begins.
Carrie is appalled by this, yet is still drawn to him, battling her conscience over her heart.When Carrie’s mother dies and her father leaves her in charge of Cromwell Plantation, she becomes involved with the Underground Railroad and helps more than a dozen slaves in their bid for freedom.
Carrie Cromwell is truly an unforgettable character.This is a book with a great deal of historical detail regarding the thoughts and times leading up to the Civil War. As I read, I wished that I had discovered this epic series while my mother still lived.
This had so much potential.... I hope that the author becomes more consistent with her writing (sometimes brilliant, sometimes awkward, other times just, sorry to say, bad). The characters were likable enough, pacing was mostly ok (on occasion it staggered). There are some moments of real wisdom, which definitely made it worth the read. Here's hoping the author gets a better editor, as well.
This series was recommended for people who love Downton Abbey and were looking for something to tide them over until January.
That said, I was pretty surprised to discover it was set in Civil War times Virginia!
The story centers on Carrie Cromwell, a young woman growing up on her family plantation, who has never quite fit in with her mother's plan of being a demure, pretty thing without a serious thought in her head.
I guess the referencing of Downton Abbey is because she is rich and has poor people with their own lives working for her in a great house.
I enjoyed the book - to a point. I think the author did a tremendous about of research, but it fell a little short in the dialog. I have a hard time believing that an Antebellum Southern Belle would use the word, "okay", refer to an old college friend as "buddy" or give "big hugs". These are all late 20th century words/phrases. I had a little bit of a hard time with the personal religious experiences too. It was a little too much for me. I really enjoyed the story and the historical accuracy, though.
The story is about the Cromwell family, in particular Carrie Cromwell.
It starts out in anticipation of the Civil War. I wanted to read this book because I love reading about the Civil War era.
The story follows her as she comes to terms with what it means to be the owners of slaves.
She grew up being a best friend to a slave girl, Rose, and the story follows them as they mature and their relationship evolves.
I do want to read the next book just to see where it goes and hopefully I will be able to give it a better rating.
Ginny dye did her research, and weaved in the story the events and issues that lead up to the American Civil war through the eyes of her characters, as it must have been for many that lived in that time.
She leaned on the Lord, and her good sense and truth to guide her.I've read very little about the Civil war, except for what I learned in school growing up.
I am learning much from these books, and love these well developed characters.
Storm Clouds Rolling InThis book captured my attention as I read the first page.
The books covering the Civil War are of particular interest.
Her slave and childhood friend, Rose, introduces us to life, traditions and beliefs in the slave quarters.
Everything, including family and friend relationships, the southern way of life and politics in both the North and the South takes the reader to the beginnings of the war between the states.
I look forward to beginning the second book in the series of seven...and counting.
I liked Carrie a lot as she loves the land and the plantation, and her father gives her the freedom of going anywhere on their property on her beautiful horse she loves.
The book is very very much anti-slavery which I did not object to of course.I am not going to go into the story other than it is a light romantic love story when Carrie meets the young owner of another plantation.
It gets quite deep into slavery, not only from the perspective of the slaves in the book but philosophically as Carrie ponders the right and wrong of it.
I thoroughly enjoyed the book! More about how Carrie Cromwell deals with her own dreams, ideas, and truth while growing up as a plantation daughter. She had a spirit that most young privileged ladies of the south did not. I look forward to the next book!
Historical fiction being my favorite genre, I especially enjoy Civil War era stories. This book is the first in the Bregdan Chronicles series about the Cromwell Plantation and its 19-year old mistress, who must take over the running of the plantation after her mother dies. With the Civil War looming, I will probably read the next book to follow how the war impacts the family members, who have vastly different attitudes toward slavery. Writing not nearly on the level of Diana Gabaldon’s Outlander, as promised, but an easy read and kept my attention.
This historical fiction book was an enjoyable read, although it was a bit heavy on the history and politics leading up to the Civil War. There is a lot of time spent on who said/did/believed what and a lot of "Oh, I hope this does/doesn't happen!" I am sure it was the constant talk before the war (similar to how there was nothing but Clinton and Trump talk for months leading up to the election), but I wish less time was devoted to it.
I am hoping for more development in the next book (although I could take or leave Robert).Yes, I will read the next installment and I am looking forward to it!
As whispers of succession turn to shouts of war, the life at Cromwell Plantation changes dramatically, and fears of the future come crashing in.
This is the first book of Bregdan Chronicles and deal with the first year of the American Civil War. Although the general views are southern, in most instances they are unbiased and impartial, sometimes naïve but also refreshing, but without the frivolous and short-sighted outlook of Scarlet O’Hara.
The characters are strongly developed and are also sure to remain with the readers long after the last word is read and the book closed.
The author does a great job with this terrible time in our history.
Luckily, the plantation and the family in this book are good people (ignorant and blind, but they didn't mistreat their slaves).
I would have loved to give this book 5 stars, but I was bored to tears with all the political gibber-jabber.
I can see why the author did this as an educating of the reader but frankly it was dull and difficult for me to get through those parts.
I really liked this book and I have to read the next soon as it's a gripping story.
Oh my goodness.
I read this book and was absolutely "taken" with it and books 2-11 as well.
I can't wait for the next "episode" .
I fell in love with all the characters and felt I was part of the families, experiencing every situation they were going through.
the tragic destruction of the overcrowded boat carrying passengers anxiously awaiting a reunion with their families; the escape from Libby Prison and more.While these books almost seem at times (to me), like a soap opera, I repeat, I have fallen in love with Ginny Dye and the Bregdan Chronicles.
This is fantastic reading!!
This is a rather long Christian novel that explores several fictional characters associated within a Virgina plantation just prior to the Civil War. It is a quick read and is not at all offensive in depicting the milieu of that tumultuous time. I was unaware of "The Wide Awakes" as a paramilitary campaign organization affiliated with the Republican Party during the United States presidential election of 1860. Actually this is a rehash of events similar to that miserable Oprah selection https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1... but is MUCH better except that it is incredibly long!
This book is interesting in that it follows a Southern Belle (Carrie) who is questioning all she has been taught is right: the way the Southern states are founded on the institution of slavery is a good thing.
This historical fiction account does a good job at reviewing the issues of slavery, and why some people – even those who used it as a way to sustain their own lives – believed it was wrong and were willing to stand against the laws of slavery to help end the oppression of a whole people.
Carrie is a strong leading lady and easy to love.
Storm Clouds Rolling In by Ginny Dye is the first of a four book series about a Virginian family during the years 1860-1865 ( Civil War years).
The Cromwells are wealthy plantation owners just south of Richmond.
The only child is a daughter, Carrie, wants to be a doctor.
She fimds as she lives through the pre-war years in the first book that she differs in many respects from her parents.
This book is a quick read and is written to entice you to keep reading until the last page.
If you like historical fiction/romance this book will hold your interest.
This was an amazing historical fiction about the Civil War. It seems that the author did amazing research and really knew how to put all opinions about succession, slavery, and just life into different perspectives for all the characters. I deeply recommend this book for anyone looking for a American historical fiction! It was fantastic.
This is the first in a series of books about the Civil War. I really like this book, and those following. They are lengthy but very descriptive of the time and issues involved. I will keep reading the books in this series as long as the author continues to add new ones.
A great civil war story about plantation life, slavery, the underground railroad, and I am now anxious to read the next in the series. The author goes in depth to share what was happening before the war begins in the south.
I love finding new authors especially those who are exvellent storytellers!! Excellent series so far.
Great book1I could hardly put it down. So good. I highly recommend this book to whoever enjoys reading historical fiction and the Civil War.
Very interesting bookThe beginning of the civil war. People's different feeling on slavery. I thought it was very good A lot of history.
Excellent story, powerfully written. A good reminder to all of a dark time in our nation's history and why it was so important. Wonderful focus on Christ.
Round up to 4.5 stars. Utterly engrossing! Can't wait to read the next one.
Interesting A good look into the hearts and minds of the abolitionists, the slave owners, and the slaves during the pre civil war years.
