https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/432223.This_is_It_Other_Essays_on_Zen_Spiritual_Experience
To understand music, you must listen to it. But so long as you are thinking, “I am listening to this music,” you are not listening". Recognizing that the experience of presence is the only experience, is also a reminder that our “I” doesn’t exist beyond this present moment - a Paradox. There is no permanent, static, and immutable “self” which can grant us any degree of security and certainty for the future; and yet we continue to grasp for precisely that assurance of the future, which remains a
Recognizing that the experience of presence is the only experience, is also a reminder that our “I” doesn’t exist beyond this present moment - a Paradox.
Watts argues that our only chance for awakening from this vicious cycle is bringing full awareness to our present experience.
Happiness, he argues, isn’t a matter of improving our experience, or even merely confronting it, but remaining present with it in the fullest possible sense.
Watts says, we don’t actually realize that there is no security until we confront the myth of fixed self-hood and recognize that the solid “I” doesn’t exist; which is something modern psychology has termed the self illusion.
Still I decided to give it a go: the book was thin and I had nothing to do but watch the Ganges flow while sipping my lemon ginger tea.
I knew nothing about Alan Watts then, but when I finished the book, I remember holding its last page in front of me as if I were holding an old, overlooked chest containing mysterious secrets of the world.
Just remember those large black letters staring at me: THIS IS IT, and that rare feeling when I knew This really Is it.
So, too, my brother attended a Greek Orthodox Sunday school with his best friend for a while.Early on, I knew Dad was an atheist and thought little of religion.
I saw them, these clergymen, as odd and intriguing.Religion was a big thing in Park Ridge, where we lived, and at my high school, Maine South.
But not every Christian I met was so.The more impressive Christians were the least exclusively Christian and the most religious--if by "religion" one means thoughtfully serious.
Besides general ethical and philosophical problems, my own experiences with psychotropic drugs seemed to be meaningfully addressed by some religious writers concerned with Zen, mystical traditions and Eastern meditational practices.
I'm so pleased I finally read this pseudo-intro to Zen. It's not comprehensive or a how-to or anything like that.
It's casual and approachable, but still serious.It gives you a sense of things and whets the appetite to experience and learn more.There's also some unexpected and interesting essays: Watt's keen take on Kerouac and Gary Snyder after the publication of the Dharma Bums, and Watt's experience as a test subject in studies on LSD and how that taking LSD compares to satori.
Surprisingly, both of these essays are most interesting as windows into the culture of the 60s.Mostly, though, these handful of essays here are straight-forward, plain-spoken discussions of Zen that a Westerner can easily approach and digest--a great intro that left me eager to learn more.
I was hoping to find a book that was a "how-to" book on Zen Buddhism.
Of course, from this book I learned that there isn't really a "how-to" of Zen anyway.
One simply learns to stop looking and experiences Zen.From this book I did learn informally about the underpinning of Zen and how it relates to our culture.
I was hoping that Watts would come out against LSD use as an artificial means to enlightenment.
However, he actually suggests that the use of LSD might have some benefits.
Just say "No", kids.I've read parts of Watts's, The Way of Zen. I will have to finish it to get what I was looking for.
"The student of Zen is confronted by a master who has himself experienced awakening, and is in the best sense of the expression a completely natural man.
Such a man is likened to a ball in a mountain stream, which is to say that he cannot be blocked, stopped, or embarrassed in any situation.
He never wobbles or dithers in his mind, for though he may pause in overt action to think a problem out, the stream of his consciousness always moves straight ahead without being caught in the vicious circles of anxiety or indecisive doubt, wherein thought whirls wildly around without issue.
The 'start over button is the portal to the 'way-back machine') But I digress, again.What Watts and his colleagues were doing was seeing if they could find the answer to Life, the Universe, and Everything in a different way from these guys:"The intellectual adventure story of the "double-slit" experiment, showing how a sunbeam split into two paths first challenged our understanding of light and then the nature of reality itself—and continues to almost 200 years later.Many of science's greatest minds have grappled with the simple yet elusive "double-slit" experiment.
I enjoy how he makes an effort to explain his argument in detail on various concepts within Taoism and Zen Buddhism that are usually difficult to grasp, and provides ample evidence and personal experiences to illustrate his points.
Personally, what has always drawn me to Taoism and Zen Buddhism is the naturalness and self-awareness of these disciplines.
I recommend this book to intermediate readers with an interest in Taoism and Zen Buddhism.
Some prior knowledge of Taoism is particularly helpful (read the Tao te Ching!), since Watts main strength is the depth of his analysis into Taoist philosophy.
I was familiar with Alan Watt's book, "The Book" which I read years ago and thoroughly enjoyed.
I thought I would spend this year reading Buddhist books and start with this, which is a collection of six of his essays.
This is Alan Watts both as spiritual explorer and academic.
In fact, I'm still mulling over much of what I have read.Most outstanding to me were his essays "Spirituality, Sensuality," which explores the false dichotomy of the material and spiritual worlds and "Beat Zen, Square Zen, Zen," which examines the development of Western Zen, how it can go of track and how, perhaps, there isn't a track in the first place.
The collection of essays that form “This Is It” reach their culmination and offer their most significant observations in the final entry, “The New Alchemy.”What starts out as a consumer review of LSD quickly unfolds into a meditation on reality itself.
This builds on – or predates, I’m not sure which – Watts’ amazing book “The Wisdom of Experience,” in which he also defines reality as the unfolding of experience, one after another, which helps dissolve the perception of self.
It also forms a book end to the first essay, which shares the book’s title.
Daha önce okumamış biri olarak Alan Watts'a işbu derleme kitapla başlamak ne derece doğruydu bilemiyorum fakat kötü bir deneyim olmadığı ortada.
Ancak yer yer bir hayli tutarsız bulduğumu ve bazı kısımlarda da Bay Watts'ın sınır tanımaz doğu övücülüğü çabasından rahatsız olduğumu da belirtirsem kitap ile alakalı en azından kendim için adil bir değerlendirme yaptığıma ikna olacağım demektir (ki halihazırda ikna oldum bile).
Bazılarınız için bir gün kavuşmayı arzuladığınız aydınlanma yolunda önemli bir kapı açabilecek kuvvette bir kitap olduğu çok açık (yine de o aydınlanmanın büyük bir bölümünü bu kitaba borçlu olmayacaksınız).
Bazılarınız için ise bu denemeler faydalı bir beyin egzersizi olacaktır (benim için bu açıdan faydalıydı örneğin).
must re-read in a few years just cuz...memorable quote:“We could say that meditation doesn't have a reason or doesn't have a purpose.
In this respect it's unlike almost all other things we do except perhaps making music and dancing.
Also, when we are dancing we are not aiming to arrive at a particular place on the floor as in a journey.
When we dance, the journey itself is the point, as when we play music the playing itself is the point.
And exactly the same thing is true in meditation.
Meditation is the discovery that the point of life is always arrived at in the immediate moment.”
I discovered Alan Watts on YouTube last year and he is an amazing philosopher with tremendous insight into human behavior, relationships, self-perceptions, hangups, and the like.
I have listened to many combined hours of his recorded lectures.
Now to read some books.This I believe is a great Watts starter or introduction if you are not familiar with him.
Many of these ideas I had gathered from YouTube video posts.
But reading the printed words is a different experience altogether and there are other fascinating ideas transferred in this book.Letting his ideas sink in is transformative and will free you.
Anything I've read of Watts is superb in content, so this. Watts is likely the best teacher I've listened to and read, except possibly Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche: both have the projection of charismatic presence and mastery of words to hold one in awe, while allowing you to float in some other sphere beyond the words or the presence of the teacher.
You've heard the old "if you were stuck on a desert island and you could only have one book" schtick before: This Is It. I return to this book at least once a year, sometimes more often, to re-read several of the essays and to refresh myself when I am feeling the weight of the mundane.
I can't decide which I like more: listening to Alan Watts lecture, or reading his books. These essays, particularly the final one "The New Alchemy", are introspective and wonderful. I can't get enough.
I can't get enough of this guy. It is amazing to me that his work doesn't have greater currency given that most of it was published around the middle of the last century. He makes perfect sense to me an reframes much of what I have gleaned through my own practice into clear concise expression.
I have read and re-read this book for the last 12 years and it never ceases to offer new insights.
What a beautiful soul to think about life in this way. Not strict Zen but not necessarily watered down either. A way of thinking without thinking.
This is pretty much my favorite book. Solid and unpretentious, which is a rare thing in books on this subject.
<2.5h @ 1.5x. Contents:(view spoiler)[Watts A (1960) (03:25) This is It - and Other Essays on Zen and Spiritual ExperiencePreface1. This Is IT2. Instinct, Intelligence, and Anxiety3. Zen and the Problem of Control4. Beat Zen, Square Zen, and Zen5. Spirituality and Sensuality6. The New AlchemyBibliography (hide spoiler)]
A book that challenges oneself to view yourself as one. Its flow of great vocabulary may have you get lost at times but once you realize the treasure within Alan Watt's world, it becomes a clear indicator of the importance of seeing oneself as such.
This was my first experience with Watts - he can write pretty densely, but by the end of the first essay things felt comfortable. Nothing in here particularly blew me away but each essay was littered with perspective-tweaking insights that made it worth it.
An erudite collection of essays that presents poignant spiritual insights and captures the cultural and intellectual milieu of the early 60s.
I love Alan Watts so I lack some subjectivity on the matter, but he explains eastern philosophy in a way that deeply resonates with me.
Yes! This is it!
A good introduction to Zen (spoken as a newbie to the concept myself). Made me want to read a lot more Alan Watts.
Super interesante.
"In the landscape of Spring there is neither better nor worse;The flowering branches grow naturally, some long, some short."
Little is known of the exact neurological effects of LSD, but what is known suggests the latter possibility..." (pg 144-5)yet so many have been falsely enchanted by these experiences that they have not inhabited a similar state of mind as Watts, who never experienced any amount of "fear" during his trips,"I am inclined to some such solution because there have been times when I have seen the world in this magical aspect without benefit of LSD, and they were times when I was profoundly relaxed within, my senses unguardedly open to their surroundings." (pg 145)This state of relaxation is the true source of insight, as the use of mind-altering substances has simply given the human mind a different interpretation of the immediate present without having to build up those interests through exploration and introspection."My own feeling, and of course it is nothing more than an opinion, is that we transcend death, not as individual memory-systems, but only in so far as our true identity is the total process of the world as distinct from the apparently separate organism."
