https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254262.Amos_Fortune_Free_Man
I did my best to rate this what I might have rated it as a child, or maybe if I'd read it back when it was written.As a book, I would probably rate it highly in a list of similar children's biographies for interest and readability.
Amos Fortune had a very interesting life, and a new biography of him would be great.
I wonder if, possibly, the new edition that I see pictured includes a foreword about the racist nature of the book, which would help somewhat.The illustrations (in the edition I read, anyway) depict dreadful caricatures.NOT recommended.
I didn't love it, but I didn't hate it.I found some of Amos's ideas a little silly - such as finding his sister, whom he assumed would be the same age as she had been when he last saw her no matter how many years past.
I think perhaps that had a little to do with the way people during the time of this book perceived African-Americans (?), perhaps, but it could just be his personality, in my opinion.I've read that some people think this book was very racist; I don't think it was that bad.
Even if he understood why they felt they had to sell him, he should have felt something more than just cheerful to do his part.Because the book spans nearly one hundred years, I had a hard time connecting to the emotional life of Amos.
I don't think the themes were necessarily carefully expressed throughout the book (Amos loves freedom, but isn't upset when it is denied to him, twice, by owners who are supposed to care.) The characters go through so much of their lives that they are not terribly well drawn, more glimpses into their lives.
Although I greatly admired Amos Fortune in Elizabeth Yates’s 1951 biographical novel, it was his love for a mountain in his later years with which I connected the most.A former African prince, At-mun was abducted by slave traders in 1710, after they destroyed his village and murdered his father.
He kept that sense of responsibility for others during his whole life.Amos, as his name became, earned his last name “Fortune” since he had the very, very good luck of being owned by kind masters for the almost fifty years that he was enslaved.
I would honor him just from reading Yates’s research; the personal connection to that grand mountain in New Hampshire makes him even more memorable!
His tenderness for his young, handicapped sister, and the memory of how he would want to see her cared for, prove to be the gateway for freedom for other suffering Africans, as he buys their freedom with the money earned by his skill of tanning leather."It was Ath-mun who had been the fount of freedom to those others, Amos thought, as he reached back into memory for the beloved sister."As terrible as it was to read of African tribal slavery, the horrors of the transatlantic voyage, and the mistreatment of blacks in America, the most incredible part of this story is its picture of redemption.
So many books about slavery are set on plantations in the South that it's easy to forget that there were also slaves in the North.I see that quite a few readers aren't happy with this presentation of an African American who lived in Massachusetts in the late 1700s.
I would be happy to have the kids read this story.
No man wanted to be a slave.
But this is a book for kids, ages 9 to 12 perhaps?
After reading this, kids just might turn to the internet to see what more can be learned about Mr. Fortune.
There is precious little information about the man who became Amos Fortune and I would not send anyone to this book trying to find any.
Once you get past the actual slave traders, the majority of the white people Fortune is in contact with are plaster saints - and none of them give him his freedom.
The one realistic white man won't pay Fortune the agreed price and makes him pick up the coins from the ground.
This book is a fairy tale to make white people feel better.
For its time, I'm sure this book was tremendously important and maybe even progressive.
But now it seems so domesticated, watered-down, and pandering to a white audience.Amos as a character is extremely compelling, and it is rare that you read a children's book where the main character is an old man for most of the story.
I also really appreciated the lack of dialect in this book; this may be the first Newbery with a black character where that character doesn't constantly say "lawsy me" and other such nonsense.
However, this book is so full of platitudes for appeasing and justifying the white audience that it's hard to bear.
It's a good thing for them the whites took them over." Yeah...you've gotta be okay with a little "that's how it was back them" racism to get through this one.
It's a pretty interesting story of a slave--from his capture from his African tribe all the way to his death as a free man--but it also leaves a lot to be desired.
Amos is pretty lucky (I know...no slaves were actually "lucky"), which is how he comes by his last name.
An inspiring story, sure...but Amos never experiences the horrors that many slaves did.
Elizabeth Yates is one of the most sympathetic and caring authors that I have ever read, and she brings this benevolent approach to the sad but inspiring story of the heroic true figure Amos Fortune, an African prince who was sold into slavery at the age of fifteen and spent the next forty-five years working hard for various slave owners, trying to buy his own freedom and, eventually, the freedom of others.
"Amos Fortune, Free Man" is a very powerful and honestly moving story, and it seems to me that no other writer could possibly have accomplished the task of writing it any more proficiently than did Elizabeth Yates.
The thing that struck me most about this book is that Amos is not tortured or horribly hurt in any way by being a slave.
It does not matter that you are mistreated and hurt by being a slave.
That’s not what is horrible about racism.
Racism is not good no matter how benign it seems.
I think that by seeing Amos as a real person who does things that normal people do and who leaves a normal life which is not particularly horror filled, that the awfulness of slavery is made even more apparent.
Furthermore, the author paints slavery as an honest institution, one that others like Amos can free themselves from if they simply work hard and accept their fate as God's will.
When Amos finally does get his freedom, the book implies that Amos can now appreciate it better because of his years of working towards it, ignoring the fact that he was already free before he was stolen from his homeland.
I can't help but think about the schoolchildren who read this book and enjoyed it as fact, and the effect that it may have had on them.
The story itself is really not that bad, but the fact that the author made up the majority of the story based upon the few facts available on Amos Fortune's life sort of disturbs me.
Amos is depicted as being happy all the time, and although I don't doubt that he was a very upbeat person, not one time in this book is he sad (although he gets angry at one occasion).
The details of his life in Jaffrey, New Hampshire, are a bit more interesting, but still pretty dull.
Not a book I'd expect kids to pick up, but it's readable and somewhat inspiring.

My first impression was that this story was a bit Pollyannaish putting a happy glossed over spin on what must have been horrifying for young Atmun.
But then I remembered the audience this is a book for young people.
They do not need to be given all the horrors of the slave trade to know it was wrong and the lesson that Amos taught with his life was one that children need to learn and can learn from this book.
That "it does a man no good to be free until he knows how to live, how to walk in step with God." That quote alone made the whole book worth reading!
This is one of those books based on a real person.
Some consider this to be a work of nonfiction and others consider that there is so much dialogue used that isn't known for certain that it is more of a fiction based on a true story.
I don't know that Elizabeth Yates was the best person to tell this story.
The Amos she creates in her story is was more tolerant of the whites that I think any real Amos could have been under the circumstances.
The book does have nice flow to it, Amos Fortune is a truly fascinating person to spend time with.

Not my favorite book ever, but it was pretty good. Amos, born Amum or something like that, is taken from his African home. He is taken from his father, mother, and sister, and enslaved Then he is brought to America, and sold. Can he find his long lost sister? Will he be a slave forever?
While this was an inspiring story for kids and the main character was very admirable, overall it presented very idealized and unrealistic pictures of slavery and humanity.
Enjoyed this book. I really enjoy biographical novels, and reading about this time era.
I love how Amos Fortune was portrayed as a wise, hard working, intelligent man. I also loved that he was someone who waited for answers from God instead of instantaneously.This was a fast, quick read novel.
I loved the book except the ending, it was so sad. He well you’ll see
Fictionalized life of a real 18th century African sold as a slave in Massachusetts. Lucked out with good masters, if it's even remotely possible to luck out having a master. Nevertheless, he persisted and became a skilled and free tanner.
When I read a book, in particular a book such as this, I wish to be caught up in the story; lost in the strifes and toil of the characters, wondering at sudden changes of fortune on whichever part, following along contentedly even at points when the tale is merely droning, not staring blankly at black words set on white paper that simply go on from page to page.Amos Fortune: Free Man, I'm sorry to say, left me very much wanting, and only because the writing, as I stated before, was in fact not bad, and that it was at least historically acurate I give it two stars.
Elizabeth Yates is a wonderful writer and there are some very reflect-worthy quotes in this book: "It puzzled Amos that the white people put so much stress on Sunday.
Yet it seemed somehow similar to the stress they put on the color of a man's skin.
To amos, once he understood the Lord, every day was lived to Him." (one of my favorites) There was something in the words of the book that I did not fully understand and thus, skimmed over when I was younger.
Only now, being married, fully in love, and looking at the prospects of our opportunity am I able to entirely grasp the beauty of this book.
Eye opening.I think that part of reading a historic book, fiction or non fiction, is to understand concepts and believes of that time, whether simple or complex, wide spread or not.
Even if I think a book is bias, I want to know why and i want to teach my children to see it and understand why, according to what we believe.
This book reads like a giant Mad Lib. Yates took the handful of known history about Amos Fortune, then just randomly made stuff up to fill in the gaps.
Characters want freedom, then they don't, then they do.
Characters are noble, then stupid, then brilliant.
All of it adds up to the lesson of the book, which is...
Yet, Yates was clearly trying to write an anti-discrimination book.
I trusted Yates enough not to change the known facts of the story too much, and I read on to find out what they were.

Amos Fortune was born At-mun, the son of a king in Africa.
Before he knew it, he was seized and taken to America, to be sold as a slave.
He was fortunate, however, and was sold to a kind Quaker who treated him justly and beneficently and allowed him to buy his freedom.
With a copyright date of 1950, I anticipated there would be lots of racist elements to this book.
There were, but the book was redeemed somewhat by the depiction of Amos as a pioneer, a good man, a man who led the way for others.
I found the pacing of this book strange and off-putting (there are poignant moments where Amos reflects on the most minute detail of a sunset, preceeded and followed by paragraphs where whole decades fly by), but perhaps life can be a bit blurry in a similar way.
I still haven't delved into it too deeply, because I'd like to ponder the book as a standalone work before dragging the author's whole life experience into it.
It's not a great *book,* in my opinion, but it is a nice telling of an exemplary life.
