https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91247.Ramona_and_Her_Father
Published in 1977, Ramona and Her Father was a Newbery Honor Book.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دهم ماه فوریه سال 2005 معنوان: رامونا و پدرش؛ نویسنده: بورلی کلی یری؛ مترجم: نورا حق پرست؛ تصویرگر: آلن تی یگرین؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، کانون پرورش فکری کودکان و نوجوانان، 1372، در 111 ص، مصور، شابک: ایکس - 964432367؛ ؛ گروه سنی : د؛ چاپ چهارم 1385؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی، قرن 20 معنوان: رامونا و پدرش؛ نویسنده: بورلی کلی یری؛ مترجم: پروین (فاطمه) علیپور؛ تصویرگر: آلن تی یگرین؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، انجمن اولیا و مربیان، 1373، در 128 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1375؛ 1381، در 128 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، افق، کتابهای فندق، 1387، چاپ دوم 1388؛ چاپ چهارم 1389؛ شابک: 9789643694906؛عنوان: رامونا و پدرش؛ نویسنده: بورلی کلی یری؛ مترجم: احمد کسایی پور؛ تصویرگر: آلن تی یگرین؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، شهر کتاب، هرمس، 1378، در 119 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1381؛ چاپ چهارم 1388؛ شابک: 9789646641464؛ چاپ پنجم 1390؛نقل از پشت جلد کتاب: «رامونا تازه فهمیده که پدرش کار خود را از دست داده است.
I had hoped that this book would be as fun and lovely as I remembered.
I remember this book as a lot thicker." But you know what?
It was fun and lovely and nostalgic.
And the bittersweet Christmas ending, where Ramona, in her pajama-ed sheep costume, bleats loud and proud?
I often hesitate to read books that I absolutely loved as a child, but this (and Ramona and Her Mother) absolutely did not disappoint.
If you need a shot of nostalgia for your childhood, and need to know that everything will work out in the end, read this book.
These are the only Ramona illustrations that will suffice.*
اين كتاب تو را با خودش به سادگي و شفافيت دنياي كودكي مي برد.....
And therefore, I personally really do NOT understand the negativity in the reviews that take issue with the fact that smoking is featured (if in Ramona and Her Father smoking were portrayed as glamorous and grown up, then perhaps I could more understand the negativity, but that is not ever the case, as smoking is continuously shown and portrayed as a bad, unhealthy and potentially dangerous habit, as well as very expensive, especially considering that Ramona's father has just lost his job).
That she can write compellingly about sad, virtually incomprehensible things like unemployment, depression and addiction and make it totally appropriate and comprehensible for my third and fifth grader is TOTALLY AMAZING.
And what's more, you don't feel like jumping off a bridge at the end because she offers you hope and faith, without being cheesy or preachy.
My kidlets who have the attention span of a dog spotting a squirrel were both just in awe, quiet, wide-eyed and hanging on my every word as I read them chapter after chapter.
They didn't ask for their ipad at the end, they asked if there were more Ramona books I could read them!
Still holds up really well -- especially about the tightening of budgets and giving up of frills when a job loss happens.
I love how squarely lower middle class the family is.
Dad's new job is bagging groceries, while mom works at a doctor's office as a secretary.
And the entire subplot with dad giving up smoking is a thing that I remember reading as a kid, and now, as an adult, can't really recall in books I've read for young readers in years.
I think the thing I'm loving most so far: Ramona's parents treat her like she's not a baby.
Ramona is really the sweetest. I mean, don't get me wrong ... she's a pain, too! ... but she's also a sweetheart. :)
"Having a sister who tried to act like the Virgin Mary was not easy for a girl who felt as Ramona did."Reread for VSC.03-15-2008"Ramona made up her mind, right then and there in the middle of arithmetic, that she was going to save her father's life." Ramona, c'est moi.
I first read this in 1980, maybe 1981, and should have been awestruck that Cleary had put pen to paper and come up with me.
But no, I took Ramona for granted and just read this one over and over again.
I made tin-can stilts just like Ramona's, but never made the longest picture in the world.
Came across my 2003 school reading log, so figured I should enter these books in too. In the words of my ten-year-old self, this book was: "Really good, pretty easy"
I swear by her ruthless silliness.Ramona, who has probably never heard of a school shooting, drones, or Youtube, lives life like a hatchet.
Undeterred, she strives forth weathering shitty Christmas pageant costumes and her father's future lung cancer to enjoy the hell out of life.
She forces her father into quitting smoking by abject harassment and goes (alone!) with her sister to some pantsuit wearing old lady's house to interview her for school.
Pre- terms like "helicopter parents", you can't help but love this and wonder what the hell happened to being a kid.
We started reading the series of books starring Ramona Quimby, Beezus, Henry and their friends a few years ago, but we never made too much progress.
Although these were written more than thirty years ago, they are still fun and great for children.
It's refreshing to see that as time passes, some things still stay the same.I like the Ramona's sincerity and the fact that she experiences real emotions.
She gets angry at times, but she is also joyous, fearful and proud.
Children can empathize with her emotions, her wants and her fears.
We really enjoyed reading this book together.
I wouldn't trade you for a million dollars."...Mr. Quimby continued his careful snipping.
"I'll bet that boy's father wishes he had a little girl who finger-painted and wiped her hands on the cat when she was little and who once cut her own hair so she would be bald like her uncle and who then grew up to be seven years old and crowned herself with burs.
Not every father is lucky enough to have a daughter like that."Read it on my lunch break because when I was little I loooooved Ramona and identified with her much more than any other literary character (I didn't meet Anne with an -E until a few years past Ramona).
I remember this book so well- partly because I went on a campaign to try to get my dad to stop smoking just as Ramona had after I read this book.
My campaign was unfortunately, not as successful as Ramona's.
I love the part in which Ramona tells her teacher that her pantyhose are wrinkled like an elephant's skin.
Cleary has an uncanny ability to remember and describe children's feelings- without being condescending or phony.
Ramona's worry over her father's job loss and his possibly blackening lungs rung so true for me as a child.
I remember how much I could relate.
Another excellent book starring Ramona Quimby.
The last chapter is about the church Christmas play and it is so sweet. We love Ramona.
I love this book so much.
This is the book where Ramona really starts to get to know herself.
I love the way her father's character is developed and the way Cleary relates the experience of being worried about money without beating the reader over the head with it.
I still have the copy of this book that I read as a kid and it was so wonderful to get back to the RIGHT illustrations.
Ramona reminds me more of myself at that age when she looks like her plain, mousey little self.
In the book Ramona and her Father Ramona's father loses his job Ramona thinks he's miserable. So she tries to do everything she can to cheer him and the rest of the family. Even if it means getting burs stuck in her hair to trying to get him to stop smoking. I rated this book a 4 star because it was a little easy for me. This book is humorous. I would definetly reccomend this book to reader who like the Ramona series and to readers who like realistic fiction.
It has been a long time since I read a Ramona book. This was fairly cute and felt relevant despite the difference in time period, I think kids feelings about things remain much the same. Popsugar 2018: a book set in the decade you were born.
94/100Man, I love Beverly Cleary's stuff so much. I feel like she needs to be recognized as an amazing writer not only for children but for all readers. Few other authors have moved me as much with their power of observation.
I'm reading this to the girls and we're having a good time. They are FREAKING out that the dad smokes. It was published in 75, and I'm trying to explain that things were a bit different back when I was a kid.
Beverly Cleary has a very fine grasp indeed on kid think.
My children continue to be thrilled with Ramona, even though she's having to deal with some heavier issues as her father goes through an extended bout of unemployment.
Yep. I still love these as much as I did when I was a kid. And the story has held up well!
This book is somewhat dated because a major plot point involves Ramona trying to get her father to quit smoking- both for his health and also because of the money he can save.
When I first read this book in the 1980s, I could empathize with Ramona’s plan because my own father smoked cigarettes.
They were somewhat surprised at the smoking, but were charmed by Ramona’s attempts to get her father to quit.
This book functions well as a standalone, but I would recommend reading the series in order to gain a sense of appreciation for Ramona’s childhood journey.
I read this in a day. It was a pretty quick read and I recommend grades four and up. But, it was very good!!
My first Ramona novel. It was pretty fun.
เลมนีเปิดมากดรามาเลยพอราโมนาตกงานกะทันหันแมตองไปทำงานนอกบานการเงินฝืดเคือง ขนาดแมวทีบานกตองกินอาหารทีราคาถูกทีสุดทุกคนไมมีความสุขราโมนารักพอ และเขาใจสถานการณภายในบานแตราโมนากยังเปนราโมนา ทีชอบทำกิจกรรม และชอบเปนจุดสนใจทีสุดชอบตอนทีราโมนาถามพอวา "ทำไมเราถึงไมเปนครอบครัวทีมีความสุข" คำตอบของพอดีมาก แตดียังไง ตองไปหาอานกันเองคะ
เล่มนี้เปิดมาก็ดราม่าเลยพ่อราโมนาตกงานกะทันหันแม่ต้องไปทำงานนอกบ้านการเงินฝืดเคือง ขนาดแมวที่บ้านก็ต้องกินอาหารที่ราคาถูกที่สุดทุกคนไม่มีความสุขราโมนารักพ่อ และเข้าใจสถานการณ์ภายในบ้านแต่ราโมนาก็ยังเป็นราโมนา ที่ชอบทำกิจกรรม และชอบเป็นจุดสนใจที่สุดชอบตอนที่ราโมนาถามพ่อว่า "ทำไมเราถึงไม่เป็นครอบครัวที่มีความสุข" คำตอบของพ่อดีมาก แต่ดียังไง ต่องไปหาอ่านกันเองค่ะ
Amazing that in the 1970s your family would be excited that you got a job that would support a family of four as a checkout clerk at a grocery store.
Still love this book and love it even more reading it to my youngest daughter. Clearly still captures the strong spirit of this spunky girl we all love.
It was great to reread this gem. It was good to know as a kid that Ramona's life wasn't always perfect either. We had a lot in common, her sister was snotty to her, her family had financial troubles, her mom had to work all the time, her father had a tough time quitting smoking, and she wasn't the cute one. Thanks Beverly Cleary for creating such a great character for me and for so many others to relate to.
WP says that Cleary was advised to write peppy and light and humorous, but scholarship on children's literature, as such exists, actually takes formal note of the 1977 "dark period" where light and peppy children's book writer Beverly Cleary first saw the intrusion of darker themes in what was up to then the all sunshine Ramona series.
the incorrigible Ramona, of course, is the somewhat spoiled and spunky hero of several books that remained purely in prepubescent timeframes, but at least according to one source was intended at one point to start flying into the swirl of young womanhood.
