https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43889.Wizard_s_First_Rule
The former landscape painter has told us how he isn't a fantasy author in every interview he's ever given:"The books I write are first of all novels, not fantasy, and that is deliberate; I'm really writing books about human beings."(1)"To define me as a fantasy writer is to misunderstand the context of my books by misidentifying their fundamentals."(2)"The stories I'm telling are not fantasy-driven, they're character-driven, and the characters I want to write about could be set in any world.
Despite what he says, nothing separates his work from the average modern fantasy author, and like them, his greatest failing is the complete lack of self-awareness that overwhelms his themes, plots, and characters.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
The only reason I decided to write a proper review is because it's a series that readers either love or hate, and I wanted to show you that despite the negative reviews there is something worth reading here, a gem that not everyone can appreciate but the ones who do, they will never be the same again.
When I read his books, I feel like he's talking to me, he unravels the multiple layers of my soul and when he puts them back together, his story is among them.
What makes Sword of Truth stand out, is that the enemy isn't a dark, inhuman lord who commands legions of nightmarish creatures.
Terry Goodkind is a grossly inept writer, with the writing ability of a somewhat intelligent seventh-grader, but he jumped into the wide-open fantasy field when there were hardly any good fantasy writers (a state that hasn't completely changed, btw) and he has the persistence to turn out 600 page novels, and so he got published and now he's grandfathered in, because some people don't have better taste than to buy his novels.
I don't care that he has a point of view, or that he occasionally slips it into his writing, but his evil characters have become now, not caricatures of evil, but mean-spirited caricatures of the philosophy he opposes.
I very much enjoyed this book! I only hope I can say so for the rest of the series Mel ❤️
Well, that still seems sensible."Kahlen: "My sentiments exactly!"Days Four through 20:Richard: "Love, love, love."Kahlen: "I love you, but we can never be together ever because of the magic."Days 21 through 30:Random Mord Sith comes in out of nowhere.
There's the ultimate good versus bad tale going on, but to get to the end, there's so much padding with multiple adventures in between.
Add to that the less than stellar feelings toward the later volumes in the series, you may not see me carrying on.I will say, the ending was pretty good and will actually be moving my 3 star rating up to a 3.5.
Wizard's First Rule is a good example of why people think all post-Tolkien Fantasy is trash.
It bears one tenth of Tolkien's imagination, a smaller fraction of his brilliant study, and - oh look, swords!
Cliche family drama, an angsty romance between tormented lovers, powerful characters who are so unjustly tortured - it's immature at best.
At its best, it is a clunky and self-indulgently obtuse hero's journey.
There isn't even the hero-empowerment fun of Eragon to turn this into a fun immature adventure - it's too slow and anxious for that.
While I didn't personally like the book and couldn't get into it, I really went for it in this review.
I'm leaving my review up below because I think it's a good lesson.
Thankfully, you have so many fans out there that love your book and will stand by it, even when little shits like me throw out a mean review.-----I'm sorry.
I found the writing unbearable, as I would rather smell my dog's breath and lick his teeth than have to read words written by Terry Goodkind.
The sheer depth of Wizard's First Rule is simply amazing. His characters are unique and original, yet seem simple when you realize that they aren't perfect. Every chapter you read will cling you tighter to his series. Of course, many will dislike Terry Goodkind's works, either because he establishes dead on ethics in an 'I'm right, your wrong' approach, or because of dissatisfaction with his writing style, but it would be a baseless altercation to state that he is a run-in-the-mill, and mediocre author. Terry Goodkind deserves nothing but praise for this extraordinary novel.
It almost feels like the author drew a map of his new fantastical world, decided to put the main character at one end, and the solution at the other, and then gave him a veritable obstacle course of classic problems on the way.
Sadly, though, even the pacing of that plot isn't good.But none of that has anything to do with why I wouldn't want to hang out with the author.
I just have to wonder what kind of person decides to spend something like eight chapters on very descriptive and imaginative torture of one character, when the great love that supposedly drives the story took a comparative flash to develop.
a total shitshow.despite the common monomythic DNA that should have excused it, this book seemed altogether cribbed from robert jordan's wheel of time series.and then doused with absurd flourishes of disturbing provenance until it fairly reeked.like when some seriously NYC-aggro person opens a plate of take-out chinese chicken wings in hot sauce on the subway. usually just after the express leaves 125th and everyone has to spend the next eight minutes in an enclosed space together, stewing in the fumes..............but yeah, i hated this.
The tv show is definitely loosely based on the books, though, and took its own direction.This story starts in a world split by magic boundaries that people can't cross.
Richard randomly runs into a girl in the forest who's crossed the boundary and is being pursued by evil guys, so he steps in and is swept into his destiny of being A SEEKER.
Richard and Kahlan go through the boundary, fight a lot of spirits and evil things, find a sorceress, find a princess (I've decided I just do not like characters named Denna), find lots of threats, and...
Terry Goodkind likes rape. A lot. I wouldn't be surprised to find out he's a Neo Nazi. Let's have a character who kills everyone who's brown colored and celebrate him! And villains that rape a lot! Rape! Rapedy rape rape rape, rape rape! There are entire webpages devoted to people talking about the worst passages of these horrible books. I suggest you do something better with your time, like scraping mildew. It'll be more enjoyable.Fuck you, Terry Goodkind, and fuck your Nazi Randian viewpoints. Just die.
The gender ideologies underlying the novel's cosmology are just so profoundly disturbing that I couldn't enjoy what there was of the story -- not that I was likely to enjoy it anyway, since it featured large amounts of sexual torture of Our Hero. It's really not any more tasteful when gender-reversed.
I'd like to address a broader audience."I had impressions that he is smug at best(and delusional at worst) and he is unfamiliar with fantasy genre.I started his book hoping for ammunition against author.Well I have to say I didn't get it, Goodkind may be all of the above but he isn't a bad writer."What I have done with my work has irrevocably changed the face of fantasy.
Book tries to have serious themes in it but in book with noble heroes and evil, evil villains they often feel out of place.No matter what Goodkind claims he's book doesn't transcend fantasy genre but it's good enough and it might have been 4 stars if not for 30 page torture porn.
*** 4.25 ***"...“People are stupid. They will believe a lie because they want to believe it's true, or because they are afraid it might be true.”..."This was much better than it would seem when you first start the book. It is a linear story, no multiple POV's or constant action sequences, but engrossing nonetheless... Recommend it to all Fantasy lovers, but I think those new to the genre would enjoy it most!
I was referred to Terry Goodkind as a better alternative to Robert Jordan. I feel betrayed and lied to. Or maybe it was some kind of joke. Goodkind's characters are simply not believeable, and this absolutely kills the book. The dialog is forced, and it feels as if no one ever proof read Goodkind's "masterpiece."  If you like books written in a style where if you squint your eyes and pretend that instead of reading, you are watching a one-liner Bruce Willis fantasy movie, go out and get this book right now.
The author could have achieved the same results in far more plausible ways, while at the same time giving the characters some consistency, intelligence, forethought, and reasoning ability.Like many other negative reviewers, I am astounded by the sheer quantity of trite plot devices.
The main character, through the preaching of his trusted wizard friend, keeps having deep thoughts about how there is no good or evil from the viewpoint of those making a choice or performing an action.
Like we are supposed to believe that, from the viewpoint of the child-molesting serial killer character, he considers his actions good and morally acceptable.
MARKETING APPEAL: This story dealt with archetypes and LEVEL ONE readers; it was above average of most fantasy novels; used archetypes and the mythical Hero's Quest to appeal; good characters and focus on context; less on plot and surprises.
on their creation; the ecology of the monsters was something new and entertaining (many fantasy books forget that there are so many monsters that the ecological system would be destroyed); great interplay between the lovers even though some of the dialogue was a bit simple at times on Richard's part (of course, he's supposed to be a simple character so I won't hold this against the author).
2. The story sometimes gets a bit twisted with torture, rape, bad guys who like young boys, overly bad bad guys.
3. Does the author's picture bug you a little like it did me?
4. I have to admit that there were some excellent and emotional moments in the story where great and wonderful things happen.
5. I was a bit disappointed to see so much awkward writing, typos, hard to read printing, etc.
The author describes the little things several times so you'll never have to wonder what happened.
If you are a perfectionist and very careful reader, I think this one will bother you a little bit.
When an author displays a poorly developed writing style I have a hard time getting past it and caring about the story. That's what happend to me with this book. The story was decent, but Goodkind's writing was lousy. He probably improved with later efforts, but I'll never know because I'm not going to read them.
You know, some really sick part of me wants to reread this series but I'm pretty sure doing so now would devastate my Middle School self. I'm letting this 5 star rating stand, but I was 13 or 14 when I read this book & EVEN THEN I realized it was very derivative in nature. So basically take this with a grain of salt, I was but a wee lass.
With one exception, there are no plot surprises, and things are always just a little too convenient for our heroes.The one twist that stands out as unusual in the genre is an extended episode in which the protagonist is trapped by a sado-masochist and the reader is subjected to unending detail about the tortures that ensue.
Bizarrely lengthy, this sub-story claims to have an educational effect on the protagonist, but really it's just an extended torture of the reader.
Adding to the jarring feeling of having swapped books temporarily, when he escapes from this captor, there seem to be zero lingering physical effects.
I enjoy how Goodkind manages to give just enough of the back story to let us know what's going on, while also keeping the feel of the mysterious unknown about most of the book as well.
Everything comes together flawlessly in the end, and in a very rare showing for Terry Goodkind, things are resolved through Richard outsmarting the villain using lessons he's learned along his journey, rather than through Deus ex Machina.The bad?
Goodkind also begins to ruin the vague mysteriousness of it in later books by trying to technobabble for page after page on the workings of magic, which makes the pulling things out of your ass seem even worse and even more Deus ex Machina-y.The Ugly?
Richard encounters characters and concepts that wind up never being mentioned again until towards the end of the series.The big thing for me, though, is how Zedd spends a lot of time talking about magic and how it works in this novel, and he champions it as a very subtle tool, like Obi-Wan Kenobi's use of the Force in Star Wars: A New Hope, clouding men's minds and reading the future in clouds, and at one point growing a long beard with a few casual strokes of his chin.
After watching a couple of episodes of Legend of the Seeker*, I became interested in the Sword of Truth series and had to pick up the first book.Wizard's First Rule starts out okay but kind of slow.
So basically classic fantasy plot with a classic fantasy setting (with some interesting embellishment).The world is divided into three lands: Westland, the Midlands, and D'Hara.
But for much of the book though, story revolves around just Richard and Kahlan (and sometimes Zedd) traveling through the lands and running into all sorts of trouble in the form of assassins and mythical creatures, sent by Rahl.
Goodkind's books always center around difficult moral or social concepts that are put to the test by believable characters.
The theme of Goodkind's books is that people should be true to themselves, not sacrificing their beliefs for conformist ideals or things that sound appealing but have no grounding in reality.
Towards the end of the series, this theme tends to get a little preachy and starts to lean towards agnosticism.
Goodkind uses these in contrast to the heroes of the books who uphold moral standards and value life.

"Kahlan, we're BFF, isn't that great?""It really is great! I'm highly secretive though so I won't tell you why I'm wearing this white dress. I'm def. not Aes Sedai though.""Kahlan, I know we've only known each other for like five hours, but I don't want to lose you to the underworld, and I want you to take my strength.""That sounds good to me too, I usually camp out under trees with strange men. Second time this week I've done it."
So, in the end, I could not spot the cause of the popularity of this book, and I should be joining the minority of those who did not like it, but recognising that there are some positive elements.Για αυτήν τη σειρά βιβλίων είχα ακούσει πάρα πολλά και ήξερα ότι είναι πολύ δημοφιλής, δίσταζα, όμως, να πιάσω το πρώτο της βιβλίο εξαιτίας αυτών που διάβαζα για την ιδεολογική τοποθέτηση του συγγραφέα που όπως δηλώνει εκφράζεται μέσα από τις σελίδες του.
Το τέλος κάπως ξεφεύγει από αυτό το μοτίβο και μπορώ να πω ότι είναι αρκετά έντονο, βασίζεται, όμως, πάρα πολύ σε ανατροπές του τύπου "...
Kdybych to měl nějak tak shrnout, celou knihu jsem si rozdělil na několik částí.1. Eragon2. Pán prstenů3. Pýcha a předsudek4. Neidentifikovatelný BDSM erotický román.5. Neidentifikovatelný BDSM erotický román.6. Neidentifikovatelný BDSM erotický román.7. Eragon8. GodzillaNechci nějak specifikovat, proč zrovna tohle, protože by to byl samý spoiler. A taky trochu přeháním, samozřejmě se mi to hrozně líbilo. Nevydržím dlouho bez dalšího dílu. :))
