https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380258.The_Barefoot_Mailman
Based on the true events of mailmen who walked the mail up and down the coast of Florida.
This focuses on the stretch between Palm Beach and MiamiFor native Floridians I think this should be required reading.
The descriptions of Florida in the mid 1800s made me yearn to have seen it in its lush, pristine, untampered beauty and truly wild wilderness.
Another scene of sandhill cranes - it made me smile because I know exactly how these cranes behave but also sad, because my sightings of them are often in parking lots or just off a busy road.
A little love story.
A little politics.
This fictional book is based on the true practice of mailmen being hired to walk back and forth from Palm Beach to Miami around the turn of the 20th century. It took them three days to walk sixty miles. They hid small boats to cross intersecting rivers. The author wove a story of adventure, treachery,and romance into this delightful book. Recommended for those interested in Old Florida history.
A simple story of the early Florida years when Miami was still homesteaded and mailmen walked the beaches carrying sacks of mail from city to city. Wonderful sense of place and descriptions of a natural Florida lo g gone. This should be required middle school reading in Florida.
This is one of my new favorite books!
I knew from the very first page that I loved this book when it started with a rich image that was so detailed and beautiful I couldn't help but mourn the way writing styles have changed.
The story is for the most part fluffy, but I enjoyed learning more about this wild Florida that I can barely comprehend now.
The author did an amazing job of capturing the spirit of early Florida, and I recommend this book to anyone who wants to read something pleasant and not completely deep.
The Barefoot Mailman is a fun-if-simple look at South Florida before development and overpopulation turned it into whatever it is you think it is today. The story, about a young mail carrier struggling with adulthood, love and the encroaching development, doesn't have the deepest characters, but they are honestly drawn, and it would be a good book for a kid to read. If you're picking between Florida classics, though, start with A Land Remembered and put this one a little farther down the list.
The Barefoot Mailman does not stand out because of its originality; it has all the classic elements of a romance novel: a love triangle, misunderstandings, love at first sight, etc. Where this book is really especial is on its depiction of the old Florida, with the solitary beaches, the little towns and the undeveloped country, long gone by now. Around this background the author describe a love story, old as time, but with enough ingredients to captivates ones attention. It was a lovely reading.
A fun and interesting book about the late 1800s undeveloped Florida Coast, my favorite book about the Sunshine State since Strawberry Girl, The Swamp, and Their Eyes Were Watching God. While of the four only The Swamp is non-fiction, all are rich in Florida history and lore. I love to visit and read about Florida (though I wouldn't want to live there because I'd miss the snow and the hardwoods of the Northeast), another very interesting and beautiful place in a country of countless interesting and beautiful places. God bless America.
This was a book club selection and boy oh boy was it a super read. I love reading novels filled with historic information. I love the characters and the plot and how it all ended! Perfect! An awesome book to honor our history, especially Florida's history.
There was a group of mailmen who walked and carried the mail all the way from Palm Beach to Miami, and back again.
In another plot line, this story also details the fight between those who wanted the county seat of Dade County to be in the northern end of the county, versus those who wanted it in Miami, complete with all the shenanigans that people did to swing the result their way.
Although the author has fictionalized the story to be more easily read, the human struggles are easily seen and understood by anyone who knows that human nature often makes everything very complicated and stressful.
The Barefoot Mailman written by Theodore Pratt takes us along what used to be the old mail route back between 1885- 1892.
They say it was something like an 100 mile stretch these men had to walk just to deliver the US mail.
Although this story is fictional...the fact that there was men that were paid to deliver the mail in such way is true.
I loved reading about what some of these men might have encountered on their deliveries, what they endured/suffered and how they died.
Great book where you can actually learn some real history intertwined with fiction.
I would have really given it a 4.5 if it was an option but I'm leaning more towards 5 than 4. This was such a fun read with a little bit of history, fiction, adventure, and romance. Great book on Florida and super short. I would definitely recommend this book to others. Take this one to the beach to enhance the read!
If you have never read this book you are in for a treat. This is my 5th reading. It is a 'go to' book when I have read several others that were disappointments. This one will pick you up and make you a believer in an old-fashioned way to tell a good story.
This was a quaint story of old Florida in the vein of A Land Remembered when the state was undeveloped but change was starting.
Old Florida truths.
"The Barefoot Mailman" is the story of Steven Pierton, a young man who takes the mail route between Palm Beach and Miami in the 1880s.
Along the way he meets a cast of characters caught up in the struggles of pioneer life in southeast Florida.
For example, in the book both the Celestial Railroad and Houses of Refuge are built during the course of the story, which seems to cover less than a year.
Florida reading. This was a very popular historical novel in the 1950's. It's still an entertaining read that gives an almost unbelievable picture of the Miami area in the 1880's. No roads, gators, and a few hundred people.
"This book was a good read for me because I enjoy the historical facts weaved into a tale of fiction that describes a simpler time near the area where I grew up. It includes a clear reminder of how much progression has been made since this undeveloped era depicted took place. [SPOILER ALERT]The age old lesson of good verses evil ended with good winning out, which made for a very happy ending!"
I found this book in a small, horizontal paperback format for the Armed Services Editions published for soldiers during World War II, designed to save paper (not the edition pictured here). This entertaining light fiction is based on the history of postal service on the east coast of Florida, during the raw era of early frontier settlement. Worth reading. Armed Services Editions can be found on Ebay.
One of the things I enjoy most about my bookclub is reading stuff that I would never otherwise pick up. Although fiction, it is based on a true story that is every bit as fasinating as the Pony Express but with very little press. The descriptions of roadless Florida were breathtaking and I am in particular awe of how alive he makes action scenes. Imagine a time when there were less than 250 folks between Miami and Titusville!!
So glad this was on display at my library...I've meant to read it for ever so long and now I have. I'm working my worth through South Florida reads, both fiction and non-fiction. This book based on the true stories of the Barefoot Mailmen here on the Atlantic Coast of South Florida. Fascinating history!
This is a historical book about the barefoot mailmen that delivered the mail by walking along the beach in early Florida with a good story intertwined. Chase had to read this for school and I read it with him and I thought it was very good, informative and entertaining.
Usually my summer reading books are boring but this one ended up being pretty good. Throughout the book I got to see things from a different perspective, that yes developing can be good but it can also backfire, making people lose their jobs.
Cute book from the 50's. The story is a simple one about one of the barefoot mailmen who walked the route from Palm Beach to Miami before the Gold Coast was developed. A love story which incorporates some of the history of that time period before all innocence was gone.
Though a work of fiction, this book is based on actual events which took place in south Florida. The setting is from Jupiter down to Miami. The mail was actually delivered by mailmen who were barefoot.
I loved this book. It had adventure, love, danger, politics, and some beautiful descriptions of a wilder Florida. It made me want to hold a paper Nautilus in my hands, and walk the path of the barefoot mailman in a trip back in time.
Great stories of old florida
Interesting twist on an unsolved mystery.
Very descriptive of early south Florida life with a sweet love story intertwined. Great fun for a Floridian to read.
Not a Pulitzer Prize winner but interesting to read the descriptions of Florida and life in Florida before it turned into a concrete jungle
A great read for any Floridian
