https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1193177.Escape_from_Sobibor
Escape From Sobibor is my first Holocaust book in almost 5 years.
The prospect of some prisoners escaping and actually surviving the Sobibor extermination camp made me think that the book would at least end on a good note.
It did end on a good note as some did manage to escape the camp and survive the war and the Nazis, but on the other hand, even after escaping the camp, some survivors had to endure same amount of hardships at the hands of some Polish natives who gave them refuge, but with the calculation of profiting from their misfortune.Over the years, I have thought many times what I would have done in a similar situation.
What if something like this happens in India, and someone starts murdering people of certain religion or ethnicity?
He introduced me to the death camp in one of our notorious late night discussions and his account of operations within the compound and the subsequent uprising that took place there were so captivating that I took it upon myself to learn more about the remarkably obscure chapter of Operation Reinhard.
It covers the prisoners, their lives before transportation, life and death behind Sobibor's barbed wire, the soldiers, their duties, the planning phase of the uprising, the execution of the mass escape and the events that followed in the surrounding forests.
A very underestimated death tally came in at 250,000 at Sobibor.
Sobibor's story is told because of survivors.
They are hidden, beaten, robbed and killed even after escaping a death camp.
At last the author tugs deeply at my humanity as he recounts the interactions he has with the survivors.
Long before the Internet, the author travels and follows leads, eventually culminating at Sobibor.
Although the camp was destroyed and evidence partially buried, the survivors still live in Sobibor.
The story is sad and stirring yet I appreciated the follow up forty years later.
I have no Sobibor as my frame of reference.
watch here.Description: Color The Sobibor Death Camp was the site of this heart-wrenching story set during World War II. The 600 Jewish laborers enslaved there longed to escape, but the camp commandant gave orders that for every prisoner that tried to escape, and equal number of those left behind would be executed. Knowing this, the prisoners will all have to escape together, or perish in Sobibor one by one.Sobibor archaeologyNo words, no rating. Keep marching lest we all end up in this dark, sick mirror.
Wrenching and yet inspirational book about Sobibor, a Nazi death camp.
This was not one of the concentration camps but a death camp, (one of only 4 - along with Treblinka, Belzec and Chelmno.) Here, there were not large numbers of Jews kept alive to work but only a handful from each transport.
Just enough prisoners were kept alive to keep the camp running; the vast majority were murdered immediately upon arrival.
This is the story of the inmates’ plan, escape, and what happened next.
An important book as not much was known of Sobibor before this account.
Disclaimer: I received a copy via Netgalley in exchange for a review. Way back, in the 80s, television use to have movies, made for TV movies. Sometimes they were like the garbage that Lifetime puts on, but sometimes they were actually good. One of the good ones was about an escape from a Nazi Death Camp. I thought of it when I saw this title offered at Netgalley. It turns out this is the back the movie drew on. Richard Rashke relates the determined revolt and escape of several prisoners of the
Richard Rashke relates the determined revolt and escape of several prisoners of the Sobiber killing camp during the Holocaust.
Not all prisoners are detailed, but a core group including those who formed the central escape committee.
The second section of the book details the prisoner’s escape into the surrounding forest.
The third section details the time in the forest, who lives and who dies, what the others do once they escape.
The afterword and epilogue includes an essay about Rashke and his interviewing of key members of the escape as well as his thoughts after the filming of the movie.
It took me a LONG time to finish this book. It is so intense. I had to step back from it for awhile, read some other stuff, and then go back. I almost abandoned it but I'm glad I didn't. The last few chapters were sobering. The author interviewed the survivors which involved him visiting several countries to do so. He also went to Sobibor with one of the survivors and walked through what remains of the camp. His description of that visit was what made the book well worth the read for me.
It’s extremely difficult to look at a book like Escape from Sobibor with a critical eye.
Therefore, when I review a book like this I have two main considerations: 1) the quality of the writing, 2) the accuracy of the details.Escape from Sobibor is related in a unique manner, almost as if it were a work of fiction.
It is clear he came to care very much about the book but – more importantly – about the people behind the story.Escape from Sobibor is an incredible book.
It's a non-fiction story about a real event, but the way it's written, it reads like a Frederick Forsyth novel.
If you didn't know if was non-fiction you wouldn't guess from reading it.
(Two of them survived the ambush by playing dead and then escaped, wounded; a third was killed outright.) A couple who had met and fell in love in Sobibor were hidden by a somewhat nicer farmer who also charged them a bundle for it but did not kill them.
I'd be surprised if there were any Sobibor survivors left today, and even most Holocaust researchers know very little about the camp.
The subject matter of the book (the exterminaton camp Sobibor in Eastern Poland) alone makes going "Yes!
I''d heard of Sobibor before and read some books where the camp had been included in mini-chapter because, frankly, little is known about the camp.
(Notably, Rashke's work also corrects many of the errors found in other books that cover Sobibor.) Extermination camps were where Jews were sent to die.
The fact that 300 Jews escaped from the camp is amazing.
What a moving book! I still cry and honor those who were killed in all the death camps. One would think after learning of this history we would never let history repeat itself but alas we have not. Shame on us.
12/8/17 $1.13 for Kindle.
As the survivors have said, if you were not a witness to the atrocities of the Holocaust, and in particular, in the death camps like Sobibor, it is impossible to understand.
Even so, it is important that we are aware and that we try to understand.This is a well-researched book offering the personal reports from survivors who managed to resist, escape and then either fight with partisans or hide until the Russians pushed the front lines past their hiding places.
The Holocaust can happen again and it is our responsibility to inform ourselves and try to inform those around us, help people to understand that humanity has the capacity for great violence and evil.
There were hundreds of concentration camps that were used to kill, torture, and exploit the Jews and others deemed un worthy by the Nazis.
It is unbelievable that the general populations of Germany, Poland, and other countries were unaware of the fate of the Jews inside their own borders.This book captured the humanity of the Jewish captives surrounded by people who hated them.Descriptions of the torture and brutality as witnessed by the survivors was compelling.
The survivors interviewed were forever changed and haunted by what they endure.
Their escape and hardships suffered after their escape was also compelling.
In this updated version of Escape from Sobibor I am struck with how difficult it is for survivors of tragedy to remember and bear witness and how difficult it is for those who record their testimony.This was a wonderful blending of the first person accounts together with the personal histories of those giving testimony. As the Holocaust Survivors age it is of the greatest importance that their testimony be preserved.
Also now known as Holocaust Remembrance Day. A rather fitting day to finish reading about Sobibor, a Death Camp I was not really familiar with.
I pray for the souls that were lost and I am thankful to the survivors who were brave enough to relive the fear they had faced, to be able to share that with everyone who reads this.
Thank you to the author for writing such an honest and very descriptive book for future generations to know the truth about what happened to the 250,000 who lost their lives in the Death Camp called Sobibar.
Unbelievably well written, emotional piece of work. The stories told made me feel like I was there. Such first-hand accounts of the atrocities of camps I have never even heard of. Triumphant and brave. I wish I had an opportunity to meet these men and woman who are true hero’s of the war. The strongest and bravest people I’ve ever heard of.
The book combnes both the best and worst in man, courage and degradation.The fact that a few people kept just a sliver of hope alive in wanting to escape and hit back at the Germans makes this into a special storyRashke writes both the petit histoire of life in Sobibor as the big picture how the world learned (but not acted upon) information coming from Poland on the extermination of the Jewish people.Reading like a novel at times, then as a historical work could have damaged both courses of action for this book, but with this book it works wonderfully well.The only thing I didn't like was the very long section in the end how he researched the book.
This is hard to review.
So profound and provoking emotionally and intellectually.
I still felt like the author felt pressed.
Driven.
I understand all the weight of giving a true revelation of the testimonies he gathered yet he seems unable to remain apart from it and I feel him close throughout the narrative.
I cannot imagine being able not to internalize these experiences for him and I could not stay apart but feeling the weight of these truths on him strongly was distracting at times.
Pressing his dissatisfaction and disappointment with God. I am glad he opened this discussion.
This is one of the best books written about the holocaust that I've read. This is a non-fiction account, but it reads like fiction (it's not boring). It is intense and emotionally challenging but incredibly worthwhile. I don't know why I wasted my time reading something like The Book Thief when I could have been reading this.
I look at my son-in-law and his family who are so assimilated, just like many of Europe's Jews were in 1940, and I can hardly comprehend that they were singled out for blame and punishment.Rashke, like me, is a gentile who could not look away from the Shoah, and felt compelled to tell the story of Sobibor.
How do you even find yourself again when the only way to survive was to shut down and feel nothing???If you, like me, want to understand what really went on during the Holocaust, Escape from Sobibor is an important read.
So much so, that people were and still are denying that the Holocaust ever happened.I probably liked the book more because I had the movie in my mind, and the characters were brought to life.
It was quite hard to listen to, but I think everyone should read this book.So many Jews were murdered, and books and stories like these should remind people of the past, so that history is not repeated.
However as is said in the book, sadly people forget, or simply don't want to remember, and there will be a Holocaust in the future.Seems hard to believe?
Rashid brilliantly describes the events that led preceded and followed the escape from the camp by its Jewish prisoners on October 14, 1943.
Rashke also describes many of the Ukranians who served as guards at the camp, including their horrific conduct.
Rashke concludes this section with poignant discussion of his visit to Poland, including Sobibor which was led by one of the survivors.
Rashke concludes the book with drawings made by one of the Jewish prisoners as well as photos taken by the author, followed by an afterword that describes the impact of a movie about the escape and his book.As a footnote to this review, I am a grandson of Jewish grandparents on both sides of my family.
The author is thorough and even includes material at the end about his visits to survivors who ultimately allowed him to share some of their story.
The one phrase that sticks out to me the most: "Survive this so that the world will know what has happened here." That desire overrode personal safety at times in the hopes that anyone would survive to tell the story.
This book helps to remind us of the persons involved with that story.
I enjoyed the book, but was left feeling sad at what happened.
The accounts from actual survivors of the Sobibor revolt tells such a different story from Holocaust historians.
The author is correct when he states that historians often use it as a mere footnote because there is no German document supporting such a revolt as being as remotely successful as this one was.
How sad that after 70 years historians still cannot get it right.
Perhaps one day the world will get it right and these brave men and women who refused to die on someone's command will get the attention they so richly deserve even if they are not with us anymore.
The survivors never thought of themselves as heroes but they were.
Depressing on more level than oneI was interested in learning about Sobibor.
I did and found the information worthwhile.
However, I was struck by the hopelessness and misery of everyone in this book.
It was difficult identifying the "bad guys" in this book.
Even holocaust historians appeared to share mutual mistrust.
Truly a book about absent hope.In the end I discovered I didn't care about the survivors, not even interested how they made out.
I have never had this problem when reading about the holocaust.
Wish I could feel differently after investing all this time reading this book.
The explicit, endless descriptions of the unbelievable, horrendous torture the Nazis meted out was absolutely overwhelming.
Other than that, causing me to fast-read through the endless horrifying accounts, the rest of the book is an excellent historical record, and I do recommend it.The explicit, endless descriptions of the unbelievable, horrendous torture the Nazis meted out were absolutely overwhelming.
Instead of chapter after chapter of these descriptions, I could certainly have gotten a compassionate understanding in fewer chapters.
Instead of chapter after chapter of these descriptions, I could certainly have gotten a compassionate understanding in fewer chapters.
The writer of this book is not of the Jewish religion but through his investigative work (which took him many miles and made him spend many hours) he located and interviewed the actual survivors of this horrible death camp.
To get a real picture of what happened and why people should make sure it never ever happens again, take the time to read this book - cover to cover.
While not a "fun" read, it is an important message to the world about what happened and what could happen again if society turns its head and lets it happen again.You will not be disappointed in the book.
I highly recommend that you read this book.
I have recently read about 4 books about the Holocaust.This book tells us about one of the smaller concentration camps.
Most of the books about World War 2 that I have read are about life in Auschwitz, Treblinka, Bergen Belsen .
One of the reviews I read asks how many books can we read about the Holocaust?
The answer is as many as we can stomach.A few weeks ago I watched the Zoo Keepers wife about a remarkable woman.
We need to keep reading and watching Holocaust based books so no one forgets.
If we forget God forbid it could happen again
A very well researched and detailed account about an event seldom heard of or talked about.
I was delighted to have found this book, first published in 1982 and compiled primarily from survivor accounts.
The afterword provides some interesting background to the research.
It’s very sad Sasha Pechersky, living in communist USSR after the war as a Russian Jew, did not receive the recognition he deserved for his part in planning and executing the escape.
The author’s comment (see my highlight) regarding other holocaust writers practice of disregarding as true or significant any accounts not documented by the Nazis is an insult to the survivors and what they endured; this was a sad revelation to me.
