https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4652.In_Our_Time
And I love the central great novels—The Sun Also Rises, A Farewell to Arms, For Whom the Bell Tolls, Old Man and The Sea—but the real gems are the stories, which I am re-reading.A couple weeks ago I was heading to northern Wisconsin for a short vacation, so thought to begin re-reading In Our Time, his second book, because it is a north country book.
What I am reading in the stories now is a prophecy of what is to come: There’s early drinking, early struggles with girls/women, there’s plenty of depression (though in my early reading I might have thought of it as a kind of existential brooding).
I have a deep, unabiding dislike of Hemingway's style. It's sparse, it's soulless, and reads like it was written by a third-grader who just learned to construct sentences.Whether you like him or not, have a gifset of Nick Miller trying to be Hemingway:
His style is hard-edged, no-nonsense, precise, but with an infusion of radical literary genius.
His style so 'caught on' that it may be hard for readers of contemporary American fiction to realize that no one wrote quite like this before Hemingway.
He simply changed the style of American prose.My Dad introduced me to this collection of short stories.
For example:"They shot the six cabinet ministers at half past six in the morning against the wall of a hospital.
There were pools of water in the courtyard.
It rained hard.
They tried to hold him up against the wall but he sat down in a puddle of water.
These short stories are credited with being the turning point for Hemingway, having made him famous.
This is why I chose them for my next Hemingway read.On the stories themselves.
Once in a while he inserts a brief sentence of only a few words, and it's like being punched in the gut, having the result of really pulling you into the story.
Something I noticed that distracted me while reading was his use of the adjective 'very.' He overuses it, even in his dialogue.
Hemingway's use of dialogue in these stories was hit and miss.
Some stories were well done, others I found the dialogue unnatural.
Διηγήματα που σε ταξιδεύουν
In Our Time, much like Hemingway's  Farewell to Arms, is a meditation on suffering. Between the short stories, half page vignettes illustrate tableaus of violence and death taken from fleeing refugees, the bull rings of Spain, and the collapsing monarchies of Europe. My favorite linked sections of this book followed Nick Adams, in part because his story is full of intriguing holes, and in part because much that concerns him here is so banal and slow in contrast to the vignettes. One gets the sen
My favorite linked sections of this book followed Nick Adams, in part because his story is full of intriguing holes, and in part because much that concerns him here is so banal and slow in contrast to the vignettes.
He couldn't stand things, I guess." "Do many men kill themselves, Daddy?" "Not very many, Nick." "Do many women?" "Hardly ever." "Don't they ever?" "Oh, yes.
It all depends."They were seated in the boat, Nick in the stern, his father rowing.
In the early morning on the lake sitting in the stern of the boat with his father rowing, he felt quite sure that he would never die.
Reading Cat in the Rain can transport you to another time and place: to a square near the ocean in Italy during an afternoon rainstorm.
He repeats and repeats to make the rain come alive, and unless you read it out loud you can't hear it.Then when the American girl and her husband talk you can hear truth that few other authors are willing to attempt, and even fewer can achieve with so little said.
And all of this comes down to a cat in the rain, tightening itself into a little ball beneath a cafe table so that no water will touch its fur.Papa could write.
His sparse sentences, staccato pacing and seemingly adjective free narratives aren't for everybody.
But if you like this type of writing, this book of stories is for you.This is the first time in reading Hemingway that it dawned on my just how much like poetry his writing can be (I'm slow - my GR friends have probably written thesis on this).
Here's an example, with line breaks at each period:He did not want any consequencesHe did not want any consequences ever againHe wanted to live along without consequencesBesides he did not really need a girlThe army had taught him thatIt was all right to pose as though you had to have a girlNearly everybody did thatBut it wasn't trueYou did not need a girlThat was the funny thing
از اعجاز داستان های همینگوی که تا الان خوندم( پیرمرد و دریا - در زمان ما) همین قدر که منی که تو عمرم ماهیگیری نرفتم موقع ترسیم صحنه ماهیگیری و فرار ماهی و... استرس میگرفتم:))نمیدونم پشت این داستان چه مفهوم خاصی بود که منتقدها روش اصرار کردن چون عادت به خوندن نقد، قبل از خوندن کتاب ندارم. دید رو محدود میکنه. اما همینقدر که منِ فراری رو آشتی داد با ادبیات آمریکا، برام معجزه ست.متنی از کتاب :نمیدانم چرا وقتی بعضی ها دهان باز میکنند تا همه چیز طرف را از او نگیرند دست از سرش بر نمیدارند.
از اعجاز داستان های همینگوی که تا الان خوندم( پیرمرد و دریا - در زمان ما) همین قدر که منی که تو عمرم ماهیگیری نرفتم موقع ترسیم صحنه ماهیگیری و فرار ماهی و... استرس میگرفتم:))نمیدونم پشت این داستان چه مفهوم خاصی بود که منتقدها روش اصرار کردن چون عادت به خوندن نقد، قبل از خوندن کتاب ندارم. دید رو محدود میکنه‌. اما همینقدر که منِ فراری رو آشتی داد با ادبیات آمریکا، برام معجزه ست.متنی از کتاب :نمیدانم چرا وقتی بعضی ها دهان باز میکنند تا همه چیز طرف را از او نگیرند دست از سرش بر نمی‌دارند.
Hemingway gets me, I think.
Or, his getting himself down on paper, the way his characters feel and react to both extreme and mundane circumstances, is fundamental to humanity, so fundamental that it's difficult articulate and seeing any approach to such articulation feels like a sudden intimacy between us, as though he really does get me.
To be happy in the circumstances in our time, after having experienced the extremities of what there is to experience in our time, is pretty freaking special and beautiful and rare and to be cherished.
این، یک مجموعه داستان کوتاه است.با خوندن این مجموعه متوجه میشید که همینگوی چرا بین نویسندگان داستان کوتاه اینقدر مطرح شده. داستانهاش، از ساده ترین مسائل و احساسات انسانی صحبت میکنند به شکلی که برای تمام انسانهای دنیا معنا دارند. پر از جزئیات شفاف و خردهکاریهایی که این نویسنده باعث میشه نظرمونو بهشون جلب کنیم. افعال رو بهقدری دقیق توضیح میده که میتونی مثل یک فیلم توی ذهنات تصوراش کنی و باعث میشه خودت هم توی انجام دادن کارهای روزانه دقت بیشتری به خرج بدی و متوجه جزئیات بشی.جملاتش کوتاه کوتاه و بدو
این، یک مجموعه داستان کوتاه است.با خوندن این مجموعه متوجه می‌شید که همینگوی چرا بین نویسندگان داستان کوتاه اینقدر مطرح شده.
پر از جزئیات شفاف و خرده‌کاری‌هایی که این نویسنده باعث می‌شه نظرمونو بهشون جلب کنیم.
افعال رو به‌قدری دقیق توضیح می‌ده که می‌تونی مثل یک فیلم توی ذهن‌ات تصور‌اش کنی و باعث می‌شه خودت هم توی انجام دادن کارهای روزانه دقت بیشتری به خرج بدی و متوجه جزئیات بشی.جملاتش کوتاه کوتاه و بدون تکلف اند.اتفاقات گاهی بدون هیچ دلیل خاص یا محکمه‌پسندی رخ می‌دن.
دقیقن مثل زندگی!
(مخصوصن دوره‌ای که همینگوی توش زندگی می‌کرده)
I had been going along in my English major career under the assumption that Hemingway just wouldn't be my cup of tea.
I had read a few of his short stories, and while I acknowledged their strength in minimalism and simplicity, I was never blown away by anything he wrote.
I didn't get it.Until I read this book.
Now, I love Hemingway.But my affection for the former journalist and WWI ambulance driver has not sprung from the same well of fondness most English majors draw from.
These criticisms demean the thought behind beauty of his writing!
Any review I write here is going to make me sound stupid. Somehow I left it not really having enjoyed it, but having renewed my appreciation for Hemingway's writing (though not necessarily his skills of positioning stories in a collection - even though I'm still not convinced that's the best word to describe this).
Με αυτά τα διηγήματα ο συγγραφέας δείχνει την ποιότητα και την ταυτότητά του, καθώς και την μαγεία που μπορεί να κρύβεται πίσω από την απλότητα και την ρεαλιστικότητα της γραφής του.Στις περισσότερες ιστορίες της παρούσας συλλογής, πρωταγωνιστεί ο Νικ Άνταμς, alter ego του συγγραφέα, τον οποίο γνωρίζουμε μικρό παιδί να ακολουθεί τον γιατρό πατέρα του σ'έναν ινδιάνικο καταυλισμό και τον αποχαιρετάμε σε μια μοναχική εξόρμηση για ψάρεμα σε μια αμερικάνικη λίμνη.
Όλα τα διηγήματα χαρακτηρίζονται για την απλότητα και τον ρεαλισμό τους.
Γενικά η συλλογή είναι πολύ καλή και πιστεύω ό,τι πρέπει για να έρθει κανείς για πρώτη φορά σε επαφή με το έργο του τεράστιου αυτού συγγραφέα.
I liked it when Nick, riding the rails, finds the ex-prizefighter and his man Bugs--a regular Huck-Jim duo--bumming out in the woods away from regular folks because the scarred old boxer gets into scrapes; and when George, dreading his return to school in “Cross-Country Snow,” asks Nick, “don’t you wish we could just bum together?” The allure, the boyish compulsion of bumming made me recall the bands of “bummers” that fanned out from Sherman’s columns, to forage and fight, coming back into camp near dark on rustled mounts, with wagonloads of loot, and sweet potatoes and smoked hams.
The interludes between chapters were interesting, and I thought them a clever device to provide atmosphere for the time.The last two stories, "The Big Two Hearted River" part one and two was as intriguing as describing the minutia of setting up a camp and fishing can be in very plain prose.
A few moments we can glimpse at the internal struggle, but that's it, not worth the 20 pages.On a side note, I'm sure this all would have been far more important in its time, with certain assumptions within the culture, as well as being one of the few writers it seems to write about the trauma of the Great War. But I'm not one to laud all works by an author because he has been deemed a genius.
I am a Hemingway fan, so it is hard for me to find much fault in his work. I loved these short stories. Some of them really stuck with me. If for nothing else, it should be read just for "The Big-Hearted River." Absolutely brilliant.
Hemingway at his most experimental. A fantastic book, written before he was "Hemingway."
Hemingway's technique is beautiful. Even reading without effort, you can get a full sense of the things left unsaid, and closer reading shows extreme efficiency of detail. Also a great choice of scenes.I'm still giving it two stars because I couldn't work up enthusiasm for much besides the style - I might just be too far from the post-war era, or Hemingway-style manliness, to fully appreciate it. A Farewell to Arms, with a bit more emotional payoff in addition to style, made a much stronger impression on me.
The best aspect of this book was Hemingway’s use of vignettes to illustrate what we had become as opposed to the short stories that illustrate what we had been.
I thought that the shortness of the vignettes, with all their shocking content, were in sharp harmonic contrast with the longer short stories, which conveyed the feeling of simpler, slower, pre-war times.
And as a means of communicating and documenting the effects of WWI, In Our Time may actually be a better book than A Farewell to Arms, when compared with this purpose in mind.
It seems a little presumptuous to be reviewing classics, but I recently discovered Open University, an IPad App that lets you “attend” university lectures.
The class I chose was a literature class at Yale.
The books have been awesome even though the lectures put me to sleep.
The most striking thing about this book is the structure.
This book is a collection of short stories that have vignettes interspersed between them.
In Hemingway fashion, the writing is sparse and pregnant.
I am finally old enough to appreciate his writing.
Good literature is wasted on the young.
And also this damn iceberg theory/technique Hemingway uses.
What if he just wrote some of it when he was drunk and then made people think he wrote it with a deeper meaning???
;) (I simply got very tired of analyzing and interpreting this book in my English class).What I liked: that some of these stories actually could be interpreted and were (almost) pretty good...?I didn't hate it, nor did I like it.
So I give this short story collection by Ernest Hemingway a 2 stars rating.
Yep, that's it people.
I love stories like this and that's maybe why I am able to give Hemingway the benefit of the doubt overall.
Had he continued along this line, and avoided his later self-imitations and "sentimentality," I think he would have been a far better writer, and much lesser known.To me, the bottom line for what makes Hemingway a worthwhile read is that--although his attempts are not always perfect--he makes literature un-literary.
I said yes, I think they do--many people just don't know how to talk about them or they'd rather not talk about them.
I said Hemingway.
Well, she said she didn't think she'd ever get around to reading him.
If this precise, no frills style is not for you, the chances of liking Hemingway’s short story collection  In Our Time are slim.
Hemingway, who worked as a journalist and war correspondent, completely changed the landscape of American fiction, and In Our Time is a good introduction to his works—a way of finding out whether his style is for you.In Our Time contains the thoroughly enjoyable Nick Adams stories—‘Indian Camp,’ ‘The Doctor and the Doctor's Wife,’ ‘The Three Day Blow’, and ‘The Battler’—amongst other classic Hemingway tales such as the wonderful ‘Cat in the Rain’—a carefully constructed narrative in which not a single word is wasted.
Italo Calvino once called Hemingway's writing "violent tourism" and I laughed and dismissed Hemingway along with him.But it's funny how the right circumstances and the right set of an author's work will change your ideas on them completely.So if you read this book while it is pouring rain and everyone is asleep and you are polishing off a case of Budweiser it will give you a strange feeling of excitement like you want to get up and run around outside, but you remember it is raining.You are having a dream about Nick Adams, almost like you are him, because the memories seem like they could be yours almost, they are so blunt, but then they are interrupted by some italicized nightmare portions, politics and war in the larger world, rumblings of death, and visions of other strugglers, and Oh no!
Most of this stunning collection was a reread for me. I borrowed the collected Nick Adams stories 20 years ago and never returned it: sorry Dr. Kennedy. The structure of In Our Time is a marvel. The pacing and economy have been canonized elsewhere.Having spent most of Friday in the rain, I've been just outside the pale of a cold all weekend. The talons of infirmity appeared so close today. After United's victory at Stamford Bridge I retreated. This collection is a jewel.
Hemingway always reads, to me, like a man with all the weight of the world on his shoulders, a man who takes things personal, so it makes sense why “The Battler” is my favorite thing here: the brief potential of a man who could shrug off that weight for once, not spend all of his breath trying to conquer it. Just a funny little vagabond prizefighter, who married his sister and takes a blackjack upside the head when he goes crazy, and just the friend who loves him for this.
He's not my favorite. But I am trying. This collection of short stories on the surface looks like a whole big bunch of nothing. But I have the great opportunity to take a class with a two excellent profs who know Hemingway. So I'm learning. He was just such a bastard. This will give me a good foundation to read The Sun Also Rises again. I hated it in high school. We'll see.
Third time reading this collection in less than a year. It never gets old. Brilliant.Fifth time.Sixth time.
Преди време чух аудио версията на разказа "Котка в дъжда" и от тогава все ми се е искало да прочета разкази от Хемингуей.
Взех си тези преди месец и сега с удоволствие мога да кажа, че си е заслужавало.
Почти всички разкази са чудесни, а някой от тях са направо бижу :) Ако не сте чели Хемингуей до сега и не искате да губите време в някой роман, препоръчвам два от разказите от този сборник : "Индианско селище" и "Котка в дъжда".
Мили Исусе, моля те, избави ме оттука.
с Хемингуей вече мога да кажа, че обичам разказите, толкова колкото и романите.
