https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127337.The_Story_of_the_Titanic_As_Told_by_Its_Survivors
The Story of the Titanic As Told By Its Survivors should absolutely be required reading for anyone interested in learning about that maritime disaster. It features four separate accounts of four survivors and it is truly chilling to learn first hand what they all went through. A must read.
An unsophisticated but effective softcover book, first published in 1960, that consists of four actual eyewitness accounts of the sinking of the Titanic that were published as four separate books in their day. Credibility of witnesses is very high. Not the first book I'd recommend to someone looking for an overview of the Titanic disaster, but it can be very useful in separating the wheat from the chaff when it comes to matters of authenticity.Painting: Courtesy of THE REGISTER (UK). (Note: Many specialists now believe Titanic broke in two before its final sinking.)
This is 4 accounts from 4 different survivors - Lawrence Beesley, one of the few 2nd class male passengers to survive - Archibald Gracie, a first class passenger - Commander Lightoller, the highest ranked surviving officer and Harold Bride, one of the Marconi telegraph operators.Four different accounts, mainly consistent, with different elaborations and focuses. All interesting. Well worth reading.
This book is made up of 4 stories of survivors of the Titanic, with amazing photos and drawings as well.I've broken out my review by each story told.Overall, just a heartbreaking event that never should have happened.
Many brave souls that night.The Loss of the S.S. TitanicIts Story And Its Lessons by Lawrence Beesley:Originally published in 1912.
Unabridged...This was a very detailed account of the tragic event.
Incredibly amazing!Titanic by Commander Lightoller Originally appeared as Chapters 30-35 of the book Titanic and Other Ships, originally published in 1935.
Unabridged...Interesting side of the events of the night told by the wireless operator.
At one point one of the authors goes into a very eloquent description of how beautiful the night was and how as they were rowing through that frigid night the stars seemed to be trying to give extra power to their efforts.
Another particularly descriptive event though gut-wrenching speaks of the people in the life boat having to keep rowing despite the desperate screams for help from those drowning.
I learned a lot about the rescues and pieces of the history that I had never read elsewhere.
This book made me really want to learn more about the Titanic.
A complilation of four books about the Titanic:1.
The Loss of the S.S. Titanic: written by a surviving passenger2.
The Truth About The Titanic: Written by a passenger, who died before the book was published.3.
Titanic and Other Ships: Written by Second Officer Charles Lightoller, the only officer to survive the sinking.4.
Thrilling Tale by Titanic's Surviving Wireless Man: written by the Marconi wireless operator on the ship, who survived on an overturned boat.These four stories really gave me a personal, real, look at what happened on the ship when it sank.
The details make the disaster all the more real for me.
Cualquiera de los cuatro testimonios merece cuatro estrellas. No porque sean alta literatura sino porque son recuerdos de testigos del hundimiento de uno de los barcos más impresionantes del siglo XX. Además, probablemente sin pretenderlo, reflejan algunos datos curiosos de la época, como el hecho de que a los pasajeros de segunda y de tercera no se les menciona por su nombre o el empeño cerril que tienen todos en que el Titanic no se partió en dos al hundirse.Es muy recomendable si el Titanic fascina.
It was quite a find, actually, because it contains invaluable eyewitness accounts of the Titanic disaster.This volume contains two books, one by British science student Lawrence Beesley, the other by Archibald Gracie, a retired colonel from the U.S. Army.
Of the two, Gracie's is a more compelling personal story, while Beesley offers a fine overview and analysis of the disaster.
Who knows?Colonel Gracie's account is more compelling because he, like Lightoller and Bride, went down with the ship and survived by clinging to the bottom of a capsized collapsible boat.
I was really excited join the book club at the local library and read these autobiographies in honor of the 100th anniversary of the ships maiden voyage and subsequent sinking.
Overall, the story is well told, but the author tends to over tell what was going on the ship, and what the weather was like that night.
It felt like the ship was never going to sink.The second story is a much more simplified telling of the sinking.
It contains some of the same details as the first telling, but without the elaborate, over abundance of detail.
In The story of the Titanic as told by its survivors by Lawrence Beesley, Archibald Gracie, Commander Lightoller, and Harold Bride.
We understand this message through event of the sinking of the Titanic.
The book shows the opinions and the views of the different survivors.
My opinions did not change very much other than feeling that there could have been more lives saved.
After finishing the book, the reader is left to wonder how all the people that were in titanic sinking felt as the last lifeboat left.
This book is worth reading because it shows you how the people that survived felt during the whole voyage.
From Beesley's account, and not about the sinking, but about the sensationalist press publicity surrounding it: "It should be a criminal offense for anyone to disseminate deliberate falsehood that cause fear and grief.
The moral responsibility of the press is very great and its duty of supplying the public with only clean, correct news is correspondingly heavy.
If the general public is not yet prepared to go so far a to stop the publication of such news by refusing to buy those papers that publish it, then the law should be enlarged to include such cases.
E-mailing false information that could cause unnecessary fear or grief should be illegal.
This unbelievable narrative account from the surviving passengers and a few members of the crew express their fear, panic and despair as they float in the freezing sea awaiting rescue or even death.
This narrative account gives the surreal feeling of how dire the situation really is and what each member of those left had to do to keep their psychological wits about them.
It's an interesting book. A must if you want to read a testimony from Titanic's survivors.
I chose this book as part of a Titanic book club that I did at the library. I found the accounts from the survivors fascinating and insightful. The accounts were also much different than the more well known stories surrounding this disaster. Even 100 years after its sinking, the Titanic still has so much to tell!
Quite interesting and extremely factual. I found it interesting that most of the accounts were devoid of much emotion and yet the horror of the event was quite clear. I am curious whether the accounts were less emotional because of the official inquiries, the language of the day, or just the shock of the event.
Stopped a little more than halfway through because it was getting so repetitive. It is interesting to read what was regarded as common tales at the time of the sinking that we now know to be untrue (e.g. Many parties insist the ship didn't break in two when we now know that it did). This book might be better for people who are more die-hard than I am about he specifics of the disaster.
One of the best books written about the Titanic sinking from different survivors perspectives. Four books in one. First book by second-class passenger Lawrence Beesley, second book by first-class passenger Archibald Gracie. Then books by two crewmembers.....Second Officer Charles Lightoller and Junior Wireless Operator Harold Bride.
Lawrence beesley gives a very balanced view of the nights events. certainly informative and he describes events well the story of gracie is s lot easier to read even though a lot more research and detail is contained lightoller I think explained his reasons for sending boats not full. bride just seemed arrogant to me
It is quaint to read how certain everyone is that the ship never broke and how everyone had an irrational fear about suction. True first hand accounts about the Titanic are incredible to read and it is interesting to hear how much witness accounts can vary. It gets a little tiring hearing things repeated however.
There are some nuggets of pure truth in this book. As I read this, I felt some voice tell me that I should pay close heed to the things I have learned from reading these experiences. Not that I may encounter a sinking ship in freezing waters, but that there would be times in my life where I would need to act and act in a valiant manner.
Good one. Lots of detail about the event as well as opinions of the survivors about why this happened and how it was handled. Many first -hand accounts enabling the reader to see the tragedy from different viewpoints and situations.
A fantastic book for anyone with a depth of love for the tragedy, majesty & story of the white star liner. The stories of the survivors are so harrowing & unnerving...yet if you really want transporting to the time of sinking this book will put you there!
It was very interesting to hear from the survivors accounts. It also debunked myths such as the band playing "Nearer My God" to thee or about how everyone was hysterical and panicking. I really enjoyed reading the book, but of course, I feel sad and kind of angry for those who were lost.
Little dry, but really interesting to read about the disaster (soon after it happened) from those who were there. Also interesting as a psychological study of people in disasters.
This book was a sad commentary yet extremely intriguing and fascinating. I really enjoyed the firsthand account from the survivors. It opened my eyes and made me want to delve into it even more!
Necessarily repetitive and depressing. I would give it 2.5 if I could.
Any Titanic fan simply HAS to have this in their collection. The personal accounts of the sinking are very stark, very honest, and will have you on the edge of your seat!
An amazing book, especially for those obsessed with Titanic such as myself. But man, what racists all four of these people were!
Excellent first hand accounts by survivors of the Titanic.
Amazing story. Amazing description. Amazing book. I almost hated it completely.
