https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1404813.The_Kadin
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge. For more info about what this is, click here.You know what I like best about Bertrice Small? Her work is like glorious, trashy fanfiction of historical characters, set in an AU of special specialness, where all "good people" are beautiful, unless they're female and not the heroine in which case they are "evil, conniving you-know-whats," and all ugly/fat
Bertie!" in a live-stage audience for a special taping of "My Sister-in-Law Thinks I'm Too Sexy for Sixty!" (seriously, was it really necessary to say - repeatedly - how even fifty-year-old Janet/Cyra looked like a teenager?)The book falls apart in the last act, when Janet/Cyra returns to Scotland and encounters Anne of Green-with-Envy-Gables and the odious Colin Hay, love interest #2, who is such a CREEP.
Since I've read quite a few Small books in my time, things like endless descriptions of food, clothes, etc.
They become women together, love the same man, birth his children, and then lose those children through various ways both natural and unnatural.If you've read any number of Small's stuff, you know that her sex scenes are florid with fireworks and body part euphemisms aplenty.
Janet, only 13 years old, faces her captivity in a sultan's harem with the wisdom of an experienced 40 year old, her logic and good sense is remarked upon by many many people, she is generous and fair and beautiful and gathers admirers not only within the harem, but back in the final act in Scotland.
Salim chooses Janet (Cyra) and her two companions, to be among the six, as he was encouraged to do by Hadji Bey.A wonderful cast of secondary characters surrounds Cyra as she takes up her role as Salim’s favorite.
And Small’s research is evident in the many details of harem life and the eastern culture that pervades the story.
Cyra takes her place among the Kadins (the women of the harem who give Salim children) and becomes the bas Kadin, the mother of Salim’s heir, Suleiman (a real historic figure and the longest-reigning Sultan of the Ottoman Empire).
The Muslim in me is offended and disgusted by the horrible lies told about my religion -_- Muslim men aren't allowed to sell and buy women and treat them like whores * i won't bore you with all the details about the mistakes the writer made * but please dear writers , READ A BOOK!
how can a woman take it easy that her husband has 5 other lovers and in what hell is to okay for a 13 year-old to be a mistress even if it's the 15th century -_- !!!!!!!!!!!!!!
wasted hours of my precious life .
It is the harem novel of all harem novels, taking the reader on a wild journey from the Scottish Court of James IV in the late 1400s through the Ottoman Empire, inside the Sultan's harem, before concluding back in Europe in the mid 1500s.What Small has created in this book is astounding, particularly because she wrote this decades before George R R Martin's beloved Game of Thrones novels that are, like Small, partly based on historical fact, partly based on the author's whimsical interpretation, and all of it sprinkled with a healthy dose of fantasy.Love her or hate her, Small's imagination and vision put The Kadin way above your usual silly bodice-ripper romance.
Well she's DNFing it because she loves herself and knows she doesn't care and will probably hate it regardless, so she's saving herself pain and time.---Remeber that time, Tova said she would never read another Bertrice Small book again?
So I'm going to read it and probably hate it.
Before that time the proper term would be Khatun (or Hatun).I actually wish my library had this book in its system, because I kind of want to read it, and then roast it - because I already know that I'm going to hate it.
Basically Janet is kidnapped aged 14 by Mediterranean Pirates, bought by the Chief Head Eunuch of the Imperial Ottoman Harem for OMG the greatest amount of money ever (!!!), renamed Cyra, forms a pact with two other slave girls, falls madly in love with Sultan Selim, becomes his favourite, gives birth to Suleiman the Magnificent all the while becoming the perfect concubine, mother, housewife, relations, political dissembler, expert info gatherer and all around angel of ever lasting mercy whose wisdom, kindness, beauty and managerial abilities are praised beyond the heavens themselves.
A steamy, kidnap-y premise devolves from bodice ripper into a snoozer. I liked her descriptions of harem life, but was unable to give a hoot about the central "love" story or the female friendships. I wanted more Hot Harem Sex and less Gal Pals. I'm shallow that way.
Leave it to ole Bertrice to shake things up, delivering a most chaste harem saga. I mean, wow, she kind of makes it seem like the most sensible thing ever. The endless descriptions of both dress, hierarchy, and the chessboard game of thrones was a bit dulling, and that's after you swallowed the plot of a special snowflake tween who quickly and rationally hops into harem politics and diplomacy without batting an eye. Yeesh. And I must stress - the typos were horrendous in the e-book version. Very distracting.
Loved it! It is because of THIS book that I am now in love with Turkish style, history, culture, and of course Kadin (harem) . Read ALOT of single romance books of B.Small's ! Loved them all
But quite frankly, I was disappointed in the romance and the ending was not what I expected.
I would not term this as a romance, more around historical fiction with some romantic elements.
That is impressive and I feel like she did a good job in the historical details of the story.
Which was highly disappointing, since that is why I read romance.
But will this deter me from reading this author more?
And I know many of her author books, are actual romances.
So I would recommend this one to historical fiction lovers with a spice of romance.
I'd bought a romance book (along with bath oil, candles, etc) for a friend going through a hard time.
After being bought and prepared for a harem, she has a love affair with the Arab Shiek she's given to.
First she becomes the main wife of a Turkish prince, sharing him with five other young girls.
Janet, now called Cyra, and Prince Salim are the perfect match, falling hopelessly in love.
He is a very wise, loyal man, who is a good friend to Prince Salim's family.
All we know about Salim's wife was that her name was Ayse Hafsa, but the customs and hierarchy of the harem are correct.
I would instead call this a historic novel, which is fine if that's what you're looking for.The story follows the life of Janet, a girl from Scotland who comes to be the most powerful woman in Turkey.
She's a little bit of a Mary Sue. This girl has it ALL, she's beautiful, wise, politically minded, sweet, practical, and fiery.
There's a lot of political drama in this book.
I would say that overall, the way the politics impacted the family made it sad, and the book ended on a low note for me.TLDR: This isn't a romance novel, it's dramatic historical fiction about harem life.
They were not bad, and it probably did not help that this was read on a reading crunch for a challenge, but mom did not feel the descriptions drew her in as much as they were something to skip.
If it your cup of tea, great, but mom feel if the editor had told the author to cut back on the descriptions this book would have been a more solid read instead of a drag.Lastly the ending was good and bad.
We seemed to degrade, but we degraded with thought, so not bad.?.Over all this book, unless your cup of tea, may not be worth the read.
I was pleasantly surprised by the length and depth of the novel, it's not just the story of a young girl stolen away into a far-away harem, but rather the story of a remarkable fictional woman's life.I personally have not researched the Ottoman empire or culture, let alone to the specificity of the late 1400s that this book is set in, but the novel felt grounded in history and was full of descriptions and interesting tidbits.
I finished the book an hour ago and thought about what I was going to say on the review.
It was more of a history of the Ottoman Empire.
I don't care about the Ottoman Empire.
The author most definitely did her research which is why I gave this book 3 stars but there was no plot, I wasn't drawn into the story at all and it got to a point where I just wanted to get it over with.
I think Cyra was a smart woman but she fell short of Hadgi Bey's wisdom when she chose to interfere in her son's love life by selecting that clawing witch of a girl Roxelana.I like that she got to see her son Prince Karim again.
It's a fact of life but chucked as it is in this book it seems overwhelming.I love the travel throuh history; makes me want to take studies in Eastern cultures.It's wonderful that Beatrice prepared a new life and love/lover for her future to give her some comfort, company and a loving shoulder to lean on.
I don't quite know what to say about this book.
It raised such conflicting emotions in me.
I initially had real problems with the polygamous relationship of a sultan.
Janet/Cyra loved Selim in spite of having been kidnapped to join his harem.
And he loved her.
Yet he never hesitated to take other women to his bed.
That surprisingly bothered me.
I guess because it didn't seem to bother her and I was relating to her throughout the book.
I was also saddened by all the tragedies in her life.
I was not expecting this book to be a saga of her life.
I read this years ago and just reread it.
Janet Leslie the 13 year old daughter of a Scots Lard, Ambassador to a small Spanish country on the Mediterrean is kidnapped and sold to a representative of the future sultan of Turkey.
As his BasKadin Janet, or Cyra as she becomes known, is to become the mother of a future sultan and live a life of luxury and intrigue.
The book is filled with fiction and history and Cyra's story is one that probably never happened but it sure is fun to imagine.
Beatrice Small's books are always interesting and surrounded in historical fiction.
This is still one of my favorite historical romances after reading it again ten years later. I was totally engrossed from beginning to end with all the fast paced exciting action packed with intrigue. Both times after finishing I looked up more on the Ottoman Empire and characters from the story. Scottish Lady Janet is kidnapped and sold into slavery to the harem of Sultan Selim.
Salah satu cerita terburuk yang pernah gue baca!!! Mereka bertiga waras gak sih! Maunya berbagi satu pria! Menurut gue bukan cinta sejati namanya kalau harus berbagi cinta! Dipertengahan ampe loncat terakhir udah bikin mual bacanya. Semuanya ditidurin dan melahirkan anak buat Selim? Oh my God! Kalau ada cewek cakep lagi nongol bakalan nambah lagi dong koleksinya????
This was not a romance novel. Instead, it was a badly written, historically incorrect regular novel. Though I love Ms. S,all, this is not close to her best. If you want a really good classic romance, try the Love Slave.
I was so irritated by this book that I did not finish it.
My favorite guilty pleasure romance. There's something about a harem fantasy...
The characters really came to life for me. I enjoyed learning about different cultures and the book hooked me from the beginning. Great Read!
Lusciously detailed. I'll have more later! I really enjoyed this one.
This story is fascinating. I love the Kadin
Yep, that’s me and this book.My kid self thought Janet/Cyra/Hafise/Lady Super Special Snowflake/Mother of Dragons/Godslayer/Whateverelsethefrickshecalledherself was OMG KEWL and her life story was OMG EXCITING AND ROMANTIC.
She’s in her freaking old age at the end of the book and instead of going grey, her BRILLIANT FLAMING REDDER THAN RED TRESSES just “fade to a soft peach.” Whatever you’re washing your hair in, lady, slide some over my way.Ah, but then there’s Sue #2, Cyra’s buddy Esther Kira, a supposedly humble merchant who’s actually such a brilliant chemical genius that she’d have both the medical establishment AND the Mafia begging for her services.
He said it was going to be forever...This was such a disappointment and talk about DEPRESSING.
The hero dies---and he's got like five other wives.
The sex is boring.
Honestly, hanging wallpaper is more interesting.
Like I really care that some nameless person was poisoned.
Even the death of her sons is a simple afterthought.
I cried more over a corny country song than this woman did over her son's death.I am so disappointed.
I was hoping for a prince to fall in love with a chick, chase her across deserts and love her desperately forever.
It was like reading Ayn Rand.
Oh, my God, this book dragged on and on and on with so much nonsense and so many inaccuracies.Small knows she's talking about a Muslim country right?
She should have done a little research before she jumped into a world she didn't know anything about.I mean at some point somebody swears by Fatima's tits!
Does Small know that Muslims would never ever say things like that about the daughter of a prophet they practically worship?I guess my expectations were too high, I wanted a little bit of originality and faithfulness to historical detail.
I know this book is basically about sex, but common people we need some context.I am very very disappointed.
