https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28512671-everybody-lies
…people’s search for information is, in itself, information. When and where they search for facts, quotes, jokes, places, persons, things, or help, it turns out, can tell us a lot more about what they really think, really desire, really fear, and really do than anyone might have guessed. This is especially true since people sometimes don’t so much query Google as confide in it: “I hate my boss.” “I am drunk.” “My dad hit me.” There’s lies, damned lies and then there are statistics. One must won
Seth Stephens-Davidowitz posits that the availability of vast sums of new data not only allows researchers to make better predictions, but offers them never-before-available tools that can offer insight that direct questioning never could.
Looking for queries on jokes involving the N-Word, for example, turns out to yield a telling portrait of anti-black sentiment, which also correlates with lower black life expectancy.
And any book of less than 300 pages of text should not need to use the same example three times, especially when it's about how the author can't believe women are concerned about the smell of their vagina.The last section of the book explains the limitations big data holds and is really the most grounded section, the rest being almost hagiography.
It would have balanced out the praise and also would have done much to explain the flaws present in some of the examples included.Some cool facts buried in a lot of murky oddness.Disclaimer: I was given this book in a Goodreads giveaway.
When sociologist ask people if they waste food, people give the only correct answer. It's wrong to waste food. When sociologist survey the contents of the same people's garbage, they get a more accurate answer.Just imagine how much more information is available trolling through internet searches.
كتاب مفيد يقدم عدد من المعلومات الجيدة لكن كان يمكن اختصاره للنصف تقريباً دون أن يوثر ذلك على المحتوى
This is an engaging book about how big data can be used to improve our understanding of human behavior, thinking, emotions, and preference.
He shows that the single factor that correlates with voting for Trump is that of racism.Then there are the fun factoids, about the sorts of things that people search for most often on Google.
Perhaps the reason is that violent people who are watching the movie are not out on the streets, committing crimes.And here we get to the main problem with this sort of analysis.
I have nothing unique to add to the conversation about this book. I think those most in need of reading it won't, and that's frustrating.If you've ever seen a number adduced to explain a trend, read this book. If you've ever asserted that a certain percentage of something was something/something else, read this book. If you've ever seen a politician quote a study and your innate bullshit filter clogged up, read this book.Really simple, high-level terms: READ. THIS. BOOK.
Besides, maybe I’m lying about my brother having the virus, but my interest in the topic is not a lie.Stephens-Davidowitz has made a career so far out of the study of big data, showing us ways to slice and dice it so that it is useful to our view of the world.
He believes this is his big contribution to our knowledge base, and there is no doubt his contrariness did highlight ways big data can be used effectively.If I may be so bold, I might be able to suggest a reason why many female readers may not be as interested in the material presented, or in Stephens-Davidowitz himself (he was/is apparently looking for a girlfriend).
I am now convinced that Google searches are the most important data set ever collected on the human psyche.
Both happen off the books, but there is now convincing supporting data to show us what we need to address & make more informed decisions with resources.Big data has an advantage over every other type of survey because few realize it is being collected, so we don't lie to make ourselves look better.
That seemed a reasonable conclusion until he pointed out that 15% of women search for rape porn.
Separating these out is a whole other problem.Big Data only gives us trends that we need to examine.
Mas enquanto Signal and the Noise fala de tendências de dados e Dataclisma fala do comportamento das pessoas dentro do OkCupid!, Everybody Lies fala de como as pessoas se comportam em geral.O autor usa uma série de dados de forma bastante inovadora, como tendências de buscas no Google (onde ele trabalha), buscas no PornHub, Facebook e outras fontes de big data para fazer o que ele chama de "sociologia de verdade" ou sociologia baseada em evidências.
Outros revelam informações no mínimo interessantes, sobre a diferença que se formar em Harvard pode fazer (nenhuma, o ponto parece estar em quem se forma), onde criar os filhos, como aumentar as chances de sucesso em um encontro...
"تحمل بعض المصادر المتصلة بالإنترنت الناس على الاعتراف بأشياء لا يعترفون بها في أي مكان آخر، أنها بمثابة مصل الحقيقة الرقمية. خذ عمليات بحث غوغل، وتذكر الظروف التي تجعل الناس أكثر صدقًا: متصلين بالإنترنت، وحدهم، لا يوجد شخص يجري دراسة استقصائية." في ظل الثورة التكنولوجية المتسارعة، أصبح البحث عن المعلومات أسهل وأيسر مما كان قبلًا. فإمكاننا الآن أن نعرف كم شخص متصل بالإنترنت يوميًا، وما هي المواقع الأكثر تصفحًا، وإلخ من البيانات. وبالتأكيد يمكننا أن نعرف المزيد عن طبيعة البشر من خلال ما يجرونه م
كم مرة كنت تجلس وحيدًا مع حاسوبك الشخصي وتطرح على "غوغل" العديد من الأسئلة والأفكار التي تدور في بالك وتجري أبحاثًا، والتي لا يعلم عنها أي أحد على وجه الأرض؟ بالطبع، عدد لا يصحى من المرات!في هذا الكتاب، يبين لنا سيث سيتفنز- دافيدويتز أهمية البيانات الضخمة، وبيانات "غوغل" في الكشف عن الكثير من الأمور المختلفة والمتنوعة في حياة البشر، وكيف أن نتائج بيانات "غوغل" تختلف في نتائجها عن الدراسات الاستقصائية والاستبيانات، وذلك بأن البشر يميلون للكذب!
"لا يخبر كثير من الناس الدراسات الاستقصائية عن الأفكار والتصرفات المحرجة.
ويكذبون بكل تأكيد على الدراسات الاستقصائية"
I was looking for something more nuanced, a long and rigorous thematic research on human's tendency, and data as an extremely useful tool but not the main focus.
The tool seems to be a bit more at the center here, but he doesn't discusses the cons and all the ethical implications of big data that deep enough, except for a short section at the end of the book.
More importantly, we have to consider that these type of research and the topic of big data are still relatively new.
None of this may be true at all for you.Ultimately, this is a book worthy of reading for the general reader (for the record, I definitely have a lit/history brain, so yes, I am a general science reader!) and the explanatory information about how statistical studies are done (the only math-involved college class which engaged me) and what people are really feeling and thinking (if Google searches are to be believed, and I think they are).
Areas that supported Trump in the largest numbers were those that made the most Google searches for 'n-----'." (He uses the real word, which deepens the revulsion you feel at what he's discovered.)Despite Obama's two easy election victories and the narrative that we were post-racism, the Google search data tells another story about reactions to those victories.Immediately after the San Bernadino shootings, what happened online?
He spends a moment talking about how big data is not meant to be, and should not be, used to try to figure out who specifically is going to commit crimes.By the time I was done with this book I was a bit discouraged at who Americans seem to be, but it's better to know.
This causes much of the book to come across as a list of facts, and it gets pretty old by the midway point.The other issue is a growing trend among people writing data books.
They want to write in a colloquial style to make it seem informal and easy to read.
Unfortunately, using tons of sentence fragments and colloquial phrases only makes a book like this harder to read.
It's precision and clarity that make books easy to understand.
I think Seth gets a bunch wrong, though, in not understanding fully why certain search terms are used.
The author was a data scientist at Google, and draws in large part on the searches people make on the site, along with information from sites including Facebook and Pornhub.There’s a lot of interesting stuff in the data, from the rate of racist searches in the rust belt predicting the rise of Donald Trump, to common body anxieties and whether they actually matter to the opposite sex, to an estimate of how many men are gay and whether that varies by geography (it appears not), to rates of self-induced abortions.
I sought out the book after reading an interview with the author, and it was totally worth it. The book is quite enlightening, and to be honest, deeply frightening. Internet data can work miracles for the benefit of humanity, but it can bring to life many unimaginable, Big-Brother-type nightmares (current US presidents not excluded, just sayin...). Still, it's good to know.
No practicing analyst or social scientist will find anything of value in this book. It verges on being dangerously deceptive, filled with logical fallacies and half baked reasoning for it's conclusions. The book claims to be finding truth in an uncertain world, but actually is just adding to the noise.
The book gave an example of a study that concluded, totally against our intuition, couples maintaining separate sets of friends tend to stay in the relationship longer.So Davidowitz spent the bulk of the book, in Part two, to illustrate “the powers of the big data” that we have access today: 1)	new types of data that are beyond survey data or tabular data, think tweets and pictures; 2)	honest data, the data generated at the subconscious level, such as doing a Google search (instead of answering a survey), when people are not as inclined to lie;3)	the data granular enough that we could zoom in on small subsets for our particular study;4)	data so large and comprehensive that would allow us to undertake rapid, controlled experiments.
So, from our data thus far, we know the author lies, and maybe even within this book.
I liked some of this book: specifically the parts where real numbers/data are used: for example, in 1950 a survey revealed 20% of a certain sample said they had a library card, but the official sample count indicated only 13% actually had one.
In summary: when the author uses real, solid numbers (the number of likes on Facebook vs that same person's internet searches - and let's keep in mind google doesn't release names, but does release the number of loving wives who praise their husbands on facebook and then the number of wives who googles "Is My Husband Gay".
And at the end of the book, Seth tells my geeky son what studies to focus on:"I hope there is some young person reading this right now who is a bit confused on what she wants to do with her life.
And racism was not limited to Republicans...."The 4 powers of Big Data can be summarized: "Offering up new types of data...""Providing honest data...""Allowing us to zoom in on small subsets of people...""Allowing us to do many causal experiments...."Now we get to an example of what is not perfect about the book.
It looks to me like Seth didn't want to think too hard about this one....Big data allows researchers to zoom in on subsets of demographic groups, and geographical regions....
I call it a mess, because 1) the title is Everybody Lies, yet Stephens-Davidowitz in no way shows—let alone proves—that everyone lies (only, perhaps, that people tend to keep intimate, embarrassing, and politically incorrect things to themselves or, if they do share them, are more willing to confide in Google than in others through traditional sources of data collection), and 2) the subtitle is What the Internet Can Tell Us About Who We Really Are, but the book is not about the Internet as such, but about the potentialities of big data in all its manifest forms (text, words, images, bio-data, and so on).
The author is a bit too bragging, exaggerating, and name dropping for my taste.
Still, i do not regret spending the time with the book (but would regret paying money if it would not be a library borrow).Memorabilia.
Predicting rate of unemployment with the frequency of porn site searches (amount of time on their hands).
Predicting success of dating (listen, then listen some more, then, when you think you are done listening, listen some more).
Doppelganger (DOPP-el-gang-er) searches in Internet (by medical history, interests, etc.).
Regression discontinuity (sample is taken from the section around a sharp numerical divide).
Natural experiments.
Don't get me wrong, it is nice, funny and worth a short read.Problem for me - the causality vs correlation part comes waaaay to late in the book and the author sometimes mix the two IMHO. The biggest thing to tackle for Data Scientists is the issue of causality and if/how it can be proven to be, most of the times it just cannot be proven by this method because of its built-in limitation but the author makes a pass on this and this all makes some assumptions, as possible they can be, naive in nature.
Delightful, very engaging read on modern takes on data analysis. Fans of Levitt and Pinker I am sure will enjoy.Hardly any 'cons' to flag up... but it is a bit on a short side and overwhelmingly US focused. Still very clever and thought-provoking Overall: definitely worth your time
Googling “Clinton” or “Trump” doesn’t really say much (you might google them whether you hate or love them) but if you google “Clinton Trump debate” or “Trump Clinton polls” that reveals a lot: you tend to list the candidate you support first in those searches, so geographic areas with more “Clinton Trump” searches than “Trump Clinton” will probably end up going for Clinton.
Other things, like searching for how or where to vote, which predict voter turnout, can be analyzed (areas with high population of black Americans did not have many of these, and since black Americans as a group supported Clinton over Trump, that would hurt Clinton).
No, the single greatest predictor, with the highest correlation to Trump support, was number of Google searches in that area for the n-word.
A great book, I enjoyed every word of it. It is amazing how much we can learn about sex, penis size, homosexuality, racism, and many other interesting topics by just looking at the searches made by the people. I can’t wait to read his next book, tentatively titled Everybody (Still) Lies."More than 40 percent of complaints about a partner’s penis size say that it’s too big."
Not the least of which is that it focused largely on how big data would act like a truth serum and replace terrible self report findings when trying to answers myriad questions that arise in all areas of life.
There were other really interesting examples of what people search for in different areas of the USA and different areas of the world that give us an extremely candid picture of what they might be thinking.
He cited experts' concerns that violence in movies cause violent behaviors and then cited a study that had serious fundamental flaws.
The result of this information , if correctly analyzed is the most honest large scale information that can be found.I did find some flaws in the logic and conclusions that I found a bit …… too radical but in general it was an interesting read and …..
LOL.This book is The National Enquirer meets Big Data Science.
It features all the stuff that stops people in their tracks in the grocery check out line and grabs their attention: Sex, crime, weird sex, abuse, freaks, drugs and even weirder sex.
It’s sometimes on the edge of gratuitous but still an interesting, easy and well-written read.The best part of this book?
Although some of my true Big Data scientist friends might cringe at this thought as well as this book.
The data collected and shared by Seth Stephens- Davidowitz is downright disturbing at times.
How odd human nature, what bizarre subjects human beings become, and subjects of research, it seems, we all are.
A strange comment, but that’s what this book is all about- the bizarre data we provide, whether we realize it or not.
Who gives corporations the right to use collected data, and should they?How do interests and fun tests measure IQ on facebook?
I particularly enjoyed the chapter “Was Freud Right?” I wonder, were he alive today, how much of his theories would stand up to actual research.
