https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/278223.On_the_Way_Home
A very good story of Laura's last pilgrimage, definitely interesting to read through for Little House fans but also to those interested in the early years of the Midwest. The details of the communities and the pricing of things was interesting; I'd have enjoyed it more if there were some way of knowing if the prices were low or high, but of course there's no clue for what reasonable wheat/coal/corn prices were back in that time.
It is a travel log that Laura kept on her journey from De Smet to Mansfield.
Most of the book is just a record of the Wilder family’s daily activities with little of the beautiful prose I’m so used to in Laura’s books.
It was definitely a different glimpse of my childhood hero.With my grown-up eyes, I can also now see that this really was the same woman who wrote the Little House books.
This book is definitely more raw and honest than the Little House books.
It really helped me see a different side of Laura Ingalls Wilder.
Still struggling to catch up with my backlog of Laura Ingalls Wilder-related reading that I did last summer in preparation for our tour, which I'd also like to record eventually!This diary of Laura's trip from South Dakota to the Ozarks, as a young woman with a small daughter, in the wake of many domestic disasters that prompted the move, is one of the things that makes me totally discount the notion that Rose Wilder Lane (Laura's daughter) "wrote" the Little House books for Laura, a currently fashionable notion.
The most interesting part of this short book is meeting Rose Wilder as an adult, filling in the before and after story of her mother's journal. And yet still a nice little addition to your Little House collection if you are a fan. My review:On the Way Home.
A friend of mine loaned me a thin hard cover book of the diary of a trip from South Dakota to Mansfield, Missouri in 1894 by Laura Ingalls Wilder 1867-1957).
There are a number of pictures in the book which I found most interesting.In 1894 South Dakota was stricken by a severe drought and the depression of the 1890s was under way.
I think it would be fun to drive this route from De Smet, South Dakota to Mansfield, Missouri following the route they took as closely as possible, taking photographs to compare with those in the book.
I've seen many reviews in which people went into it thinking it was going to be another Little House book, but what you have to remember is that when Laura wrote this she never meant to publish it.
It lacks the polish of her most famous works, but it's still fascinating for all Laura Ingalls Wilder fans.
In short, if you're a fan of the Little House on the Prairie books, you'll probably be very interested in this short book.
This really sets the stage for the Little House books!
Ah, the Dust Bowl/drought and a reminder that so many traveled back and forth and yon in "the Wild West" before settling down.
Another reminder (in addition to The Jam on the Vine) that the west was settled by so many recent immigrants to the U.S., not just the Eastern European immigrants who first landed here--'cause they were all immigrants, after all!
(Woe to the indigenous folks...
:( ) The daunting task of purchasing land and then the need to "clear" it to make it suitable for tilling and pasture.
This should be fascinating to anyone, like me, who is interested in American history and/or family history from this area and/or Laura Ingalls Wilder. This trip takes place when Laura and Almanzo and their 7-year-old daughter Rose give up farming in South Dakota and travel by covered wagon to Missouri and hopefully a better life. I enjoyed, as in regular the Laura Ingalls Wilder books, the details of life at the time. If you're not interested in American history or geography or LIW, you probably won't enjoy it that much.
I am such a Little House fan that I don't think I could ever give any of the books less than 4 stars. I'm not ashamed to say it: I am an adult, and the Little House books are still some of my favorites to read. This book is actually Laura's journal from her move to South Dakota to Missouri, which she wrote in everyday. The more I read these books, the more thankful I become that I was born when I was, rather than in the 1800's.
I have far too much emotional attachment to rate this objectively, but I did like reading a more candid piece of writing from her.
เปนบันทึกประจำวัน ไมไดถูกเกลาใหสละสลวยเหมือนกับเลมอืนๆมีแตขอมูลดิบเปนหลัก อานแลวเปลียนอารมณไปเยอะเหมือนกันและตอนจบกคางคาเหมือนไมจบเอาจริงๆ ไมอยากแนะนำใหอานนะจบแคเลม 8 พอแลว
เป็นบันทึกประจำวัน ไม่ได้ถูกเกลาให้สละสลวยเหมือนกับเล่มอื่นๆมีแต่ข้อมูลดิบเป็นหลัก อ่านแล้วเปลี่ยนอารมณ์ไปเยอะเหมือนกันและตอนจบก็ค้างคาเหมือนไม่จบเอาจริงๆ ไม่อยากแนะนำให้อ่านนะจบแค่เล่ม 8 พอแล้ว
This was an excellent book. I am an avid Laura fan and this charming book did not dissappoint. Fascinating story about the Wilder's trip, with some wonderful passages by Laura's daughter, Rose, as well. VERY interesting pics as well. Laura"s charm, good humor, spunk and tenacity shown forth, as always. A must read for any Laura fan or anyone who enjoys American pioneer history.
It’s also interesting reading Rose’s thoughts.Published after Laura’s death, Rose wrote the introduction and the postscript – an eye-opening read for anyone in love with Laura, especially a young kid, to happen across.
After reading eight books and reconnecting with Laura, I don’t want to read any negative thoughts about her.
I definitely didn’t want to read someone else’s negative thoughts about her.Rose used her position to point out how perfect and precocious she was.
Laura asked Rose several times if she’d touched the money, showed it to anyone or told anyone about it.
1962 gab Rose Wilder Lane, Lauras Tochter, dem Bitten der vielen Fans nach und tippte das Tagebuch ihrer Mutter über die Reise von DeSmet nach Mansfield zur veröffentlich ab.Es ist eigentlich nicht ganz korrekt, dass Laura Ingalls Wilder als Autor des Buches angegeben ist, denn Rose versah die Aufzeichnungen mit einem Vor- und Nachwort in denen sie die Ereignisse abrundet, wie sie sie als Kind erlebt hat und sich an sie erinnert.
Abgerundet wird dieser Bericht mit Fotos aus der damaligen Zeit.Das Tagebuch befindet sich im „Laura Ingalls Wilder Museum” in Mansfield, Missouri.Das Vor- und Nachwort sind unterhalsam zu lesen, das Tagebuch jedoch ist eigentlich nur für Historiker interessant, die wissen möchten, wie hoch das Korn wo stand und wie viel gewisse Güter und Grundstücke damals kosteten.
(I did have higher hopes that Laura's writer-imagination could have prompted another name, but anyways...) Plus, there's the rather interesting story of the $100 bill tucked away in the desk -- but you can find out all about that when you read it.About half of 'On the Way Home' is Laura's diary notes -- the rest is written by Rose with supplementary information.
Included are many photographs taken around the same time as the Wilder's drive to Missouri; I loved all the photographs as it really helped to "set the scene".'On the Way Home' isn't written in the same style as the beloved 'Little House' books, but that is not to say it shouldn't be cherished too.
I was very much a fan of the Little House on the Prairie series, so I was interested to read a book that was simply a diary from Laura, rather than a children’s story that was based on Laura’s experiences as a little girl.
Laura’s daughter Rose provides context and notes to explain what’s going on, and this book also includes pictures so that the reader can get an idea for what Laura and her family saw and experienced on this trip.On the Way Home is a super short read — I read it in one sitting, and it provides a nice snapshot for how Laura and her family really lived — much more realistic than the children’s books, at least.
The heart of the book is a short diary of the Wilder family's migration from De Smet to the Ozarks during a crop failure in 1894.
Laura's contribution is a diary of brief entries for each day, mostly noting where they had traveled, what they ate and how hot it was.
Rose's introduction, conclusion and periodic annotations flush this diary out to explain the hardships the family faced at that time.The most poignant bit of the 115 page book is the disappearance of their nest egg, a single one hundred dollar bill hidden away inside a lap desk that Almanzo had built for Laura.
Although much of this book is merely diary excerpts from Laura's travel journal, it's fascinating to see what she jots down about her trip with Manly and Rose from DeSmet, South Dakota to Mansfield, Missouri.Some of the places she traveled through are familiar to us, so that makes it especially interesting.
However, I have to say that the "Setting by Rose Wilder Lane," as the book states it, is almost what makes the book.
And yet Rose, who was eight when they arrived in Mansfield, gives us a vivid picture of what it must have felt like for Laura and Manly.
I hadn't heard of these last couple of Little House books until recently.
It's not technically in the Little House series, but does continue to follow the Wilder family on their journey to Rocky Ridge Farm in Missouri, where Rose lived out her growing-up years.
The observations Laura makes in her diary along the way definitely show she's lived the previous years as a farmer's wife: there are notations about how good the crops and land look, how much wheat and other crops are selling by the bushel, how much land costs in various locations, etc.
Though a bit tedious in places, it certainly shows her mentality and the urgency of finding a good piece of land, enough to survive upon.
Reading Laura's dry diary gave me much insight into this practical pioneer. I liked her as much as ever. I also enjoyed the way my mind had to build the details of the trip (Laura cooking at all these strange places, sleeping out in the open on others' property, sweating like crazy in ridiculous temps, how such a careful person could lose a thermometer). But this is for only two types of readers: hard core Little House people, and history buffs. All others will probably be underwhelmed.
Rereading this for the first time since I was a kid and found this on the shelf in the common room of the campground in New Glasgow, PEI where we stayed at every summer. The absolute horror of the missing $100 bill incident is undimmed by the passage of time.
I never read this before...I was completely unaware of its existence as a child, when I read all the other Laura Ingalls Wilder books. I found this surprisingly fascinating. I wish it were longer! It kind of made me think of the Oregon Trail game, in a way...
Aww, Laura Ingalls Wilder!
I recently re-read the Little House series, but I hadn't read On the Way Home. I enjoyed the diary entries of the move to Missouri. The Little House books are still one of my favorite series.
I grew up reading Laura Ingalls books and watching the Little House on the Prairie TV series, so I enjoyed reading this book. It was neat to be reading Laura's actual journal entries.
'We don't live here, we only stay, 'cause we're too poor to get away.' Well, the Wilder family saved enough to make an escape, along with their friends, the Cooley family.It's sandwiched between an intro and conclusion by Laura's daughter Rose, who got it all together presumably to satisfy public demand for more Little House stories.
Rose reveals how she mentioned it to her mother years later, and Laura snapped, 'I don't even want to think about it.' Probably the upbeat terseness covered lots of grief at all they were leaving behind.I'll mention just a few points of interest I noticed.There's the hundred dollar bill that went missing just when they intended to purchase their dream block of land.
What of children?- There were a lot of Russians in the Dakota regions and Germans in Nebraska- The Yankton State Hospital used to be the insane asylum- It's utterly hilarious (to me) that in the 1890s, people felt that Nebraska didn't hold much, that it was mostly dry land that seemed like it would be great for corn, but lack of rain and hot winds said otherwise.
My mind can't even imagine what that LOOKS like.~ Laura makes note of more colored people in Ottawa, and it wasn't anything negative.~ There were a LOT of people moving to and from the areas the Wilders travel to.~ There was less rain in eastern Kansas~ Missouri sounds utterly gorgeous.Almanzo spent quite some time trying to find a place to live.
All wrapped up in newspapers and a few handmade cloths and crocheted doilies she had made.Reading these books, even now 40 yrs later, I still enjoy them just as much.
All her books are the kind that are usually kept and handed down to the next generation to read.
My daughter has every book my mother read to me now in her collection.
I hope one day she'll read them to her own children.
Some books just never go "out of style"I hope you'll start her book series from the VERY beginning and read them to your family.
Chronicling the migration of the Wilder family from Dakota Territory, where they had tried farming unsuccessfully for seven years, to their new home in Missouri, On the Way Home has three parts.
The other parts are written by her daughter, Rose Wilder Lane: the first part provides a "setting" or introduction for the diary, and the last describes their purchase of and settling down on the new Missouri farm.
So this book really has two authors, mother and daughter.The beginning and ending parts are polished prose.
The journey from Dakota to Missouri, which today would take a day or two by car, in 1894 took nearly six weeks.
Laura's travel diary of her, Almanzo and Rose's trip from South Dakota to Missouri in 1894 is an interesting read for fans, like myself, but if you want excitement it isn't for you.
This isn't like Laura's little house books - this is her record of her journey.
In it she records details like the temperature and weather, the value of property in each town they pass through and the quality of the crops.
She always writes about her mother being quick-tempered, and a little harsh especially with Almanzo.
That doesn't real fit with other things I have read about Laura - quick tempered yes but harsh?
