https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1224369.A_Hazard_of_Hearts
Serena finds herself at the mercy of Justin after her father gambles with the H and loses; the end result is that the heroine loses not only her home, Staverley, but also her freedom because her father had gambled away her hand in marriage.
Serena gets a bit of backbone, however, and absolutely refuses her cousin's offer:The MC's finally come to a compromise after they meet and discuss the terms of the wager: they decide that Justin will take Serena ( with her faithful maid/companion Eudora and her brave bull mastiff dog Torqo ) to go live at his magnificent estate called Mandrake.
700+ written :: a billion sold. But dear oh dear Barbara! No one’s reading you on gr!
My favourite part of the novel, which stopped me and had me pondering, is one that perhaps doesn't add much to the plot, but serves to enrich the historical background and provide the reader with beautifully drawn pictures of the society he is to encounter, and the atmosphere which was to engrave the main features of the Marchioness- one of the most important and dynamic characters of the novel: "Yet although they were so many, it seemed to her that they were in many respects so similar as to be individually almost unidentifiable.
One of my favorites of Lady Cartland's books. It also has a very nice movie (Helena Bonham Carter plays the main role) by the same name. Orphan, wealthy and beautiful, Serena will have to be strong and brave to discover what dark secrets hide in the house of Mandrake and in the heart of the Justin.
Hero Justin is rich, notorious and titled (he's a Marquis) and in true romance novel fashion, completely uninterested in settling down or making a commitment - till he sees the h Serena of course.
And as with most evil MILs, she cannot stand the virginal and sweet h and takes it upon herself to get rid of her in one way or another (including but not limited to getting her abducted by malicious men with less than honourable intentions).The rest of the story revolves around the plotting and the machinations of Justin's mother and how Serena overcomes it all with brief romantic interludes with the H that barely go beyond a fluttering feeling in the heart or a quickening of breath.
I find about this book, when first I saw movie.
Watched & read many times.Serena lost everything, when her father lost a game of cards.
And the man, who win the house, Serena, is an old pervert, who drooled over her for a long time.
He takes Serena to his home, Mandrake.
And let me say, she was on my shit list from the moment, when she decided to earn some money on expense of Serena.
Which leads to her being abducted by that old boar, when Justins bitch of a mother solds her.
Serena had a rescue from unsuspected source.And back to Justin.
One thing I like about Cartland's books is her stories always have historical background.Hazard of Hearts is fascinating and successfully keeps me glued to it, and I daresay this is one of the best books she writes---Lord Vulcan is awesome, the plot is quite complex, and I like it when the lovey-dovey scene is put at the end of the story, which makes the whole story 'dignified'.And I've just realized that Madame never used such word as "orgasm", instead she replaced it with "heavenly".
Barbara Cartland absolutely outdid herself in HofH. This is my favourite book of hers. I would re-read it every year. It took me a little searching to find an e-book version and finally found a gritty uploady version which was worth it. I think Amazon sells it for a ridiculous amount as it is old and hard to find. Highly recommend for vintage lovers.
I looked for this book for ages after watching the drama adaptation with Helena Bonham Carter and Marcus Gilbert. When I finally got a copy of this book and read it, it was even better. :)
By far the best Barbara Cartland I read.Good plot, interesting characters that are not overly simplified, as can be.A very good historical romance, which I recommand. It is obviously demure.
Having said that, there are some parts in the book that I did not like and that didn't make sense.
Serena, is a strong and curious young woman strongly accepts her fate to be indebted to Lord Vulcan even though her cousin tries to save her by marrying her, she meets him and he said she should move into their family home, where his mother is.
Near the end of the book when Serena is running for her life, Vulcan's mother chases her and stops midway and goes in another direction.
Normally I would not read Cartland but I came across some of the plot whilst researching the Regency Era and then saw similarities there that forced me to investigate the book.
Or more modern writers whom give me enjoyment.The tale revolves around the plot line of a woman being lost to our hero over the turn of the play at cards.
I think we are assured now in our study of the regency that even were such play to be done, it would be considered debasing against all sides, and that would mean the hero we learn to know in this story, Lord Vulcan, would never engage in such.
I used to read a lot of Barbara Cartland - they're all fluff.This one is much better. It has a very gothic feel and there is a lot of meat to the story. Truly evil villains, mystery and action.The hero is a bit aloof but it's in keeping with his character and he is always tender towards the heroine. The heroine is also appealing. Although young, she is capable and level-headed, she also doesn't unnecessarily martyr herself.All in all pretty good read. WAY better than the cheesy movie adaptation, despite Helena Bonham Carter in the lead role.
It might sound strange but I prefer the background love story between the brother (or the cousin) of the heroine and a lady he has his eyes on, it's much more interesting than the main boring love story between the heroine and the guy she ends up with.
I was fooled by Helena Bonham Carters excellent interpretation. Poor writing, obvious plot. Not so bad I have read it while breaks of painting my new room, which will not accept bad literature anymore.
I was fooled by Helena Bonham Carter´s excellent interpretation. Poor writing, obvious plot. Not so bad I have read it while breaks of painting my new room, which will not accept bad literature anymore.
The book has a certain gothic feel to it as the film and some very wonderful images, especially in the beginning with the garden and the flowers but the story of the film was far superior than the book's story.
There were some parts in it that were a bit dumb or merely unconvincing while in the film, they were cleverly adapted and also some soppy words and sequences which were not soppy at all in the film.
Like everything in life, nothing is perfect.
And to tell the truth, although I like some of them well enough, most romances are so dumb...
I have to say the 1987/88 film was more politically correct IMHO.Spoilers Spoilers The differences between the movie and book:- Serena was fair haired and Isabel dark!
The movie was the opposite!- There was a witch / tarot card reader and black boy servant for the evil Marchioness...creepy as hell- In the movie, it was Lord Wrotham who won Serena's hand, and lost it right away to Justin.
Book version, he was the villain who had seduced her servant and abandoned the poor pregnant girl.- Movie Lord Wrotham was also the one who killed the Marchioness in the underground cave at Mandrake.
There was a time in my teens where I was really into Barbara Cartland and I read a lot of her books, problem is, is that I can't remember what most of the titles were and now thinking back about it most of the books were similar the only difference was change of hero/heroine names and perhaps location.
I don't believe I'm saying this but I liked the movie better. It was slow in some parts while quick in others. The hero was dreamy, of course, and the heroine young and naive. I gather I'm just cynical. Maybe if I'd read this book when it was first released I would have a different opinion, as it stands, this book was just meh to me.
I LOVE BARBARA CARTLAND'S ALL NOVELS. THIS ONE WAS GREAT. SHE HAD SUCH MAGIC IN HER HANDS THAT SHE TRANSPORT YOU TO ANOTHER WORLD. YOU DONT READ IT BUT YOU SEE IT, DRINK IT , SLEEP IT DIVE IN IT.WORDS ARE LESS TO DESCRIBE BARBARA CARTLAND'S WORKS.
This was made into a made of Tv movie back in the 1980's. I saw the movie and decided I had to find the book. My friend Anne actually found it and bought it for me.
This book is with me.. i've loved it.
I like it better than the movie it is so good book
Very dark for Barbara... but I loved it!!!
شاهدتها كفيلم جميل قبل أن أقرأهاوكانت حكاية لطيفة في الصورتين المُشاهدة والمقرؤة
One of my favorites by this author.
good book
3.5 stars.Oddly, although my favourite books to read are historical romances (especially Georgette Heyer), and although Barbara Cartland wrote an astonishing 723 books in her lifetime, this is the first time I have actually read one.I enjoyed it.
It is not the best literary work in the world nor the most historically accurate (e.g. why was Serena dancing every night only a month after her father's death?
Strict mourning was a thing...), it is not realistic in any way shape or form, includes tons of melodrama and smugglers and murder and duels and friendly highwaymen and men who say "my darling, my perfect love" like any of that would ever happen, and yet, I liked it.
So sue me.Harmless fun.
SỰ MAY RỦI CỦA TRÁI TIMCuốn sách ngẫu nhiên mua được nhân lúc tiki giảm giá, không hy vọng lắm nhưng thực sự ngạc nhiên.
Nội dung ban đầu tưởng nhàm chán, không đặc sắc nhưng càng ngày càng nhiều bí mật mở ra, dữ dội và không kiểm soát được.
Giọng văn tưởng như bình thường, đều đều của tác giả mang lại cảm xúc chân thật đến không ngờ.
Có vài chi tiết, cũng như mô típ thường gặp của câu chuyện quý tộc nước Anh nếu bạn đã đọc nhiều thể loại này nhưng không ảnh hưởng nhiều đến câu chuyện hấp dẫn đang diễn ra.
Oh goodness the most boring heroine I have read among Barbara Cartland's books so far.... The drama ... The villain I want to kill ... it is somewhat like "The Wicked Marquis" but a little different in other parts of it.....
