https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95608.Leota_s_Garden
I am a public librarian--I read a ton, and a mammoth variety.
I even do some reading because I "should"....some of you librarians in the crowd know what I am saying.
And I certainly am not afraid to read things that may offend gentler sensibilities, although another, defininig aspect of my life is that I am Jesus loving freak .
I think it has some strong points -- the storyline is appealing, and you wonder how things ultimately are going to work out.
I don't know --- I want to like it (I enjoyed Redeeming Love by Rivers!), but I don't think it's great.
All important things happened in a gardenFirst Sentence: CORBAN SOLSEK'S HEART DROPPED AND HIS STOMACH CLENCHED tight when he saw the B on his sociology proposal.All the emotional turmoil is so accurately portrayed, you can't help to think of Leota, Annie, Corban and Nora as people you know.After all these years this re-read was so worth it. I got so much more out of the book this time around.Rivers truly have a God-given talent.
I loved the characters, particularly Leota and her Grand-daughter.
I love reading characters that seem real.What kept this book from a 5 star rating since I did enjoy it very much.1.
(I have the same issue with many LDS books, I don't want to be preached at, made to feel guilty or somehow less of a person because I complain about a dishwasher being broken.) 2.
I know the author is trying to make moral points in the book but by the end I was trying to figure out what moral issue was the most important and hence the ending fell flat for me.
"Leota's Garden" is the story of a crotchety old woman estranged from all her family members, who becomes the case study of a sociology student.
From the beginning, it is clear that Leota is more than just a bitter old lady, and Rivers' writing brings to life a woman who desperately longs to reconnect with her children.
At the same time, Corban, the sociology student, is forced to examine his own life and beliefs as he sees Leota and her granddaughter live out their faith in Jesus."Leota's Garden" is not a short novel, and I couldn't bring myself to put it down until I'd seen how it ended.
Leota is an elderly lady whose children feel she was a bad mother and whose granddaughter wants to get to know her.
Anne-Lynn her granddaughter breaks the ties with her mom, heads to California to go to art school, and determines to develop a relationship with her grandmother.
The complex characters in this story: Eleanor and Gerald, Leota's two children; Sam, Susan and Corban, Anne-Lynn's friends; and the spouses of Eleanor and Gerald, Fred and Jeanne; all combine into a dysfunctional unit that only Leota and God can unravel.
The garden will be the centerpoint that brings peace, wholeness and healing to Leota, her family and the circle of friends.
Leota was very strict with Corbin and how their relationship developed brought a smile to my face.
The other main character in the story was Annie.
Leota's estranged granddaughter and daughter of Eleanor.
Eleanor held a grudge agaist Nora based on her beliefs of what transpired during her youth and had not allowed or encouraged Leota to be a part of her family.
Annie was curious about Leota because her mother repeatedly told her she they were just alike.
Annie, Corbin, neighbors all started hanging out and cleaning up Leota's home and garden.
I knew pretty early on that I was going to hate this book, but I kept going due to a horrified fascination; I wanted to see if it would end as wretchedly as I thought it would.
I had so many problems with this book that I almost don't know where to begin.
I know this was written a few years ago, but Leota's and her daughter's ages don't really match up with the various events described in the book.
In addition, the book contains many pages of internal dialogue or other ramblings by the main character.

Do not hesitate to read it, you will be so glad you did.From dust jacket:"Once Leota's garden was a place of beauty where flowers bloomed and hope thrived.
It was her refuge from the deep wounds inflicted by a devastating war, her sanctuary where she knelt before a loving God and prayed for the children who couldn't understand her silent sacrifices.At eighty-four, Leota is alone, her beloved garden in ruins.
She voices her despair to a loving Father, her only friend.And God brings a wind of change through unlikely means: one, a college student who thinks he has all the answers; the other, the granddaughter Leota never hoped to know.
Leota's heart sold out the Jesus Christ and yet she like myslef struggles with so many family dysfunctional relationships.
Leota 84 years young is abandoned by her two older children (Nora and Micheal)...both self serving/self centered people who believe they are intitled to have had a 'normal' life...Leota lives in a run down neighborhood though she is easily loved by neighbors....a young man, Corben, is a university student.
She is a picture of Christ's love....Annie loves and becomes a mega source and force in Leota's life and Corbon's as well as her mother Nora's reconstruction.
This was such a great read. I couldn't put it down. The relationship between mother/daughter/grandma was amazing. Francine never fails to bring God's word to life. Lots of material to use for witness opportunity. My favorite part when Sam asked Annie "what's your sign?" Her response "The fish" Sam, "Pisces." Annie "Nope. Ichthus. Jesus Christ, Son of God, Savior" I am definitely going to be using that one next time I'm asked about my sign.
Amazing!!! Probably one of the best books I have ever read.
How delightful!”We are saddened by the story that is slowly uncovered as the reader is given the backstory but the characters remain ignorant and frustrated by the repercussions in the chain reactions they themselves have caused.“Carefully stacking the letters in order, she bundled them again.For now, she supposed Eleanor would continue to cling to her own view of the past.
Although a re-read for me, the story is just as fresh and engaging as the first time I read “Leota’s Garden”, and I had a hard time putting this down!The tragedy and complexity of our own human nature is revealed in all of its dark repercussions, but there is also hope that springs up in unexpected ways and surprising unlooked-for answers.
If you've read Redeeming Love, you know what a gifted storyteller Francine Rivers is and the wonderfully mult-faceted characters she creates.
She is alienated from her children and grandchildren, lives alone in a run-down house full of "history", mourns a garden that once thrived with creativity and life is now neglected and overgrown, a heart full of regrets and a heartfelt prayer and desire for reconciliation with her family before she dies.
I've always had a heart for the elderly so Leota's Garden captured me from the first pages.
Meh. There were amazing aspects to this story.
The characters were absolutely lovely.
The story of redemption was remarkable.
In those ways, I loved it and would recommend it to anyone.
Its agenda was a little too strong for my taste.
I actually happen to agree with it's agenda, life is a gift.
But the way in which she wove that theme into the plot was strong, sometimes harsh and unfair to some characters, in my opinion.
If you can get past the monologues and you don't mind a very in-your-face agenda, the story and characters are some of my very favorites I have ever read.
This book reminded me of my grandmother who loved to work in the yard.
This story also is a story of how the Lord talks about His garden and all the stories in the bible about that.
They all come alive in this very powerful and gripping book.
I really was moved by this story.Disclosure of Material Connection: I received a complimentary copy of this book from the publisher.
I was not required to write a positive review.
The opinions I have expressed are my own.
Loved this book, along with every other book I've read by Francine Rivers.
This book brings out the tragedy of holding on to bitterness, and how it permeates all of your relationships.
It is also the story of how elderly people can feel so lonely, dejected and forgotten.
They may reach a point in their lives where they expect nothing more than misery and disdain, especially when they are widowed and alone.
It is the story of how a young person can breach the gap and bring healing between generations, even if it has to come through rebellion.
One I will re-read many times.aletakay.wordpress.com author of Vengeance and Mending Fences.
So this was my second of Francine Rivers books.
I have shied away from many Christian novels because they end up being silly romances.
But that was certainly not this book.
It was about love, but not the romance kind.
She was sweet, feisty, and deep.
Annie was almost too sweet, but I really did like her.
I was a bit disappointed where her story ends, but who knows what could happen later in her life?Rivers deals with serious issues while providing love and humor (but not a ton of humor.) I finished this book in two days!
I am a Francine Rivers fan as I greatly enjoyed both Redeeming Love and The Atonement Child. So I had high expectations for this book. Leota's Garden was slow and not very exciting. It didn't get very good until about halfway through. The ending was full of twists and turns and ended with a satisfying resolution, but it took so long to get to that point and it wasn't what I had hoped. It wasn't an awful book, but I'm not sure I'd recommend it. Francine Rivers has better books out there.
Pros:- I thought the book had a good main point, which was to try to understand the decisions that people have made in life, before jumping to conclusions about why they made the decisions that they did.- I found myself feeling like I understood the perspective of the elderly more - the feelings they have about being put in assisted living homes and how the events of world history they've lived through have shaped them.Cons:- I was torn about whether this is a pro or a con.
The daughter started to change and work through her bitterness and resentment by the end of the book, but I wish I could have seen more change and hope in her life.
I felt kind of sad at times for Leota and her family, even for Annie.And then again, nothing was as I had hoped in the end.Nevertheless, it was very well-written and I could easily relate with the characters.Annie (as Hadassah in "A voice in the wind") seemed out this world, but I liked her.I got an insight about elderly that had never dreamed of.You know, in church, we young people like to make changes and do different things, we fight for new and think how in the past some our leaders are.
Ms. Rivers uses many references to a garden as she deals with her characters growing in relationship to God. She talks of resentment being a bitter root that can take hold and be almost impossible to pull out.
She refers to the many ways in which gardens help portray the life of Chriat.
I was reading the book as an ebook from the library but I'll be purchasing it.
I think it one I would like to reread every few years for I am sure it will speak to me in a new way each time I read it.
Well, I finally read the very moving fiction story which seemed so real like I knew the people well.
I believe it is a story that my generation can understand so well, as we contrast our relationships to grandparents compared to 50 years ago.
A young man who hasn't experienced much life gets a double helping of life when he meets an incredible old lady who can keep him on his toes.
This is a loving, intimate story, not meant to entertain or thrill us, but put real life issues up on a big screen for us to think about.
Francine Rivers does an excellent job of showing what lack of communication, lack of understanding, lack of keeping God in our hearts can do to an individual and a family.
I would have given the book four stars for the story line; but because I like to read a little more action and excitement in a book, I had to weigh my personal preferance and factor that into how to rate this book, which brought it down to 3 stars.I would recommend the book for someone who is just looking for an inspiring message.
I would highly recommend the book to anyone preparing to care for an elderly person!

This book is a reality check book! This is a fiction book. In this book there is an old lady named Leota! She is alone and her childeren left her alone to rot by herself. Untill one day her grandaugher comes to visit! She shows Gods love to her grandmother and a helper who comes to help her grandmother.
This was a sad, depressing book. But, as usual, Francine Rivers takes you into the heart and mind of her characters. The depressing aspect for me was that a family was so torn apart by things that could have, and should have, been resolved. I kept waiting for that to happen (sooner than later). If you like Francine Rivers, you'll love this.
I loved this book. It made me think and gave our Book Club some good discussion. The characters are likable and lovely (at the least those that are supposed to be). Francine Rivers grazes some delicate issues and leaves you forced to form an opinion of your own on these topics.
A lovely story with a powerful message.
Nice story but too sad in places.
