https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/155106.Amelia_Bedelia_and_the_Surprise_Shower
Amelia and her cousin Alcolu are getting Miss Alma's house ready for a surprise shower.
Miss Alma's friends are going to be surprising her with a shower because she is going to be getting married soon.
Alcolu is as literal thinking as Amelia so you can imagine what kind of shower they prepare for.
One of my favorite things they do in this crazy mixed up word of misunderstandings is prune the bushes.
Instead of trimming them, Aclolu is given a box of prunes by Amelia to decorate all of the bushes outdoors.
The Amelia Bedelia easy readers are classics in the "I Can Read" genre.
Amelia Bedelia's antics are funny and captivating to young readers as she helps them learn that the same word can have many meanings.
Cousin Alcolu comes over to help prune the hedge while Amelia scales and ices the fresh fish.
When Amelia and Alcolu shower Miss.
In the end everyone has a great time and Mrs. Ralph's children love the prunes on the hedge!This and the other Amelia Bedelia books use humor to reenforce that the same word can have multiple meanings.
You know it's going to be good when the word "shower" is used in an Amelia Bedelia book.
This was probably my favorite of all and read many times over.
*wink*Reading Level: 1st - 3rd gradesCleanliness: someone says "thank goodness."**Like my reviews?
I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too.
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Another Amelia Bedelia story.She's up to her antics again. Simply can't understand the directions given to her right. As usual Mr. and Mrs. Rogers doesn't check to make sure she understands.What kind of irks me about this book though is that it seems all the laborers are dumb (to put it nicely). I was okay with Amelia being off kilter just for the hilarity of it, but its kind of annoying when it feels like all the laborers are the same. It's not exactly a nice message to portray. It was an okay book.
One of my favorite Amelia Bedelias. I enjoy reading this to my son.
Same hilarity. Try not to laugh at Amelia's execution of the surprise shower. Think she might understand "wedding shower" differently than we do? (Yes, she does.)
There's a reason why Amelia Bedelia is loved across my generation, and more specifically, my friend group.  Amelia is sweet, kind, and always trying to help out--even when she gets it wrong.  And thankfully, everyone is laughing in the end, deviating from their usually-uptight ways of being.Amelia Bedelia plays on word meanings and social nuances with its text and illustrations to illuminate just how words and social events have many meanings, some of which are more literal than others.  These books always end up uproariously funny, and I'm more than glad about it.Review cross-listed here!
As you may know, our idea of a "surprise shower" is very different from Amelia Bedelia's. When Mrs. Rogers informs Amelia Bedelia that she is planning a surprise shower for one of the ladies in her sewing group, things get a little out of hand...let's just say it involves swimsuits, chocolate-covered fish, and presents! This book is a good reading level for ages 6-8, and when they see what Amelia Bedelia manages to cook up this time, it is sure to make them laugh.
When my son was 3, and just learning to take a shower, he asked me if I was going to shower his baby sister with lemonade. I couldn't figure out what he was talking about at first, and then I remembered our shopping trip earlier in the week. I bought lemonade for a friend's baby shower. 😂 Amelia Bedelia makes a similar mistake in this book, but since she's a grown woman, it's not quite as funny. 🙄
Amelia Bedelia smilingly obeys to the letter. Cousin Acolcu helps prune hedges and prepare shower for Miss Alma at ladies' Tuesday afternoon sewing. Mr Rogers says scale and ice his fish. Mrs Rogers says cut flowers, run over tablecloth. Acolcu and Amelia with purse and hat, don swimsuits and find garden hose.
Amelia and her cousin Alcolu are getting Miss Alma's house ready for a surprise shower. Miss Alma's friends are going to be surprising her with a shower because she is going to be getting married soon. But she does something else. Like the way they misunderstand the words.
Porque todo esta en ingles y no en español
I didn't love this as much as some of the others in the series, but it continues in the tradition of puns and double word meanings.
Reader is sort of old fashioned. Still a good story about a housekeeper who hears things literally and all the trouble that follows. Funny story!
It was funny and weird as usual.
I didn't really enjoy this one as much as I did the others. Maybe because it's one of the first books released in the series.
Amelia Bedelia is a fun and funny book how she obeys but not obey but fun book for kids .
Reread via audiobook and god do I love these books!
Amelia Bedelia and the surprise shower was based on Amelia being a housemaid who was misunderstanding the tasks which include pruning the hedge, making raw fish with chocolate icing, run over the tablecloth and iron it, and the biggest was the shower gifts.
She misunderstood all the concepts by everyone getting wet, and all the children eating the prunes, and as well as the ladies figuring out it wasn't just chocolate, it was raw fish.
I liked how she can still try so hard and be making mistakes but still in the end make everyone happy because of her food or because of her goofiness of misunderstanding.
We are fast coming to like the more and more early reader stories we're finding with Amelia Bedelia.
This one about a wedding shower is a new one for me and included in the Amelia Bedelia 50th Anniversary Library, it's a box set including three individual ICR!
"High-interest stories for developing readers." Amelia Bedelia and the Surprise Shower is interesting an includes a family member of hers that I had not met before.
Here Amelia Bedelia and Cousin Alcolu help to prepare a garden wedding shower and both are of the same typical Amelia Bedelia literalism.
*Thanks to HarperCollins for providing copy for review included in the 50th Anniversary Library set.*
I can remember sitting on my mom’s lap as she read me the many lovable and silly Amelia Bedelia books.
The illustrations are colorful and portray accurately the silly actions that Amelia Bedelia encounters.
In this story Amelia is giving a surprise wedding shower to Miss Alma a friend of Mrs. Rogers for who she is a maid.
However, even after a slight disaster where she gives Miss Alma a literal shower with water, her delicious cupcakes save the day along with the good humor of the women at the party.
Smiling housemaid Amelia Bedelia obeys her employers to the letter, constantly carries black purse on arm, pink-blossoms on blue bonnet over red bangs, bright button eyes, cheery grin.
Mr Rogers says scale and ice his fresh-caught fish.
Mrs Rogers says prune hedges, cut flowers, and prepare shower for Miss Alma at ladies' Tuesday afternoon sewing session.
Cousin Acolcu in checked shirt and blue denim coveralls doffs straw hat to Amelia and bouncing golden floppy-eared puppy.
Mrs Ralph brings four children.
Miss Alma comes late, suffering a headache.
(view spoiler)[After bite of chocolate-iced fish and drenching, Miss Alma laughs, headache cured.
She makes cupcakes and someone brings her fish.
She puts someone in charge of pruning the hedges but she literally puts prunes on the hedges.
She makes quite a mess of things but it always works out in the end.
This is a level 2 book for kids in first to third grade.
It is a fairly long childrens book but the text is large and easy to read.
It is a good book for kids who are becoming more advanced in reading.
The illustrations are very colorful and detailed.
I think this is a great book for kids to read.
I enjoyed my time reading the story and getting to know Amelia Bedelia, which is a character I have heard before, but do not remember reading as a child.
Getting to know the story was nice and made me enjoy the book a little more than if it was some story that I had just picked off the shelve.
Also the pictures support the words on the page which will be helpful for students starting to make that move to transitional books.
Something's it lacks is word repeition and the pictures will sometimes break up the text on the same page which could be tricky for children to follow the story.
Harper Collins PublishersTime: 10/17=10min 10/18=15min7-word-summary:shower-fish-prune-cupcake-tablecloth-angry-laugh-Discussion question-Q1: Have you ever surprised someone?A1: Yes, I have.
I really like to surprise my friends, family and other people.
We prepared our message and pictures which we wrote and took secretly toward the day of our graduation.
And we gave it him on the day of graduation ceremony.
He was very surprised and impressive, so it was a success.Q2: Have you ever been mistaken about words?A2: Yes, I have been mistaken about many words, English and even Japanese.
She is always in trouble, but I like what she does.
Amelia Bedelia is so funny for kids, because she makes the funniest mistakes, and always takes the literal meaning of things.
In this book Amelia is supposed to help prepare things for a wedding shower, where you "shower" the bride with gifts.
Of course Amelia has no idea, and ends up showering everyone with a garden hose.
In another book I read, Amelia is supposed to make a cake with dates in it, so she cuts up the dates in a calendar and bakes them in the cake.
I loved the Amelia Bedilia books.
I've never laughed so hard while reading a book to my daughter.You know how when you read aloud and your eyes read ahead of what is actually coming out of your mouth, well half the time I was laughing so hard about something before I managed to read it out loud to my daughter.
It's been quite a few years since I've read the books but I loved every Amelia Bedilia book and plan on getting ahold of them again soon so I can read them to my grand daughter.All the Amelia Bedilia books are highly recommended.
She's in trouble again! Fun-loving Amelia Bedelia is in charge of a surprise wedding shower. And when she arrives with a garden hose, the entire party is turned into an uproarious mess! About the Author Peggy Parish was born and grew up in Manning, South Carolina. Before moving to New York City, she taught school in the Panhandle country and in coal-mining areas. Her first job in New York City was with the Girl Scouts, and she now teaches the third grade at the Dalton School in Manhattan. Miss
She's in trouble again!
Fun-loving Amelia Bedelia is in charge of a surprise wedding shower.
And when she arrives with a garden hose, the entire party is turned into an uproarious mess!
About the Author Peggy Parish was born and grew up in Manning, South Carolina.
Before moving to New York City, she taught school in the Panhandle country and in coal-mining areas.
Her first job in New York City was with the Girl Scouts, and she now teaches the third grade at the Dalton School in Manhattan.
Miss Parish is the author of several other books for children, including the popular Let's Be Indians.
Reading Level: 2.3Interest Level: K-3This a book that belongs to the humorous Amelia Bedelia series that is fun for students as they read about a hard working maid that takes everything that she is told literally.
In this particular book, Amelia thinks that throwing a surprise shower means to actually shower the person with water and as she prepares for the shower she prunes the bushes by placing the fruit prunes all over them and ices fish by coating them in chocolate frosting.
Students that are reluctant to read can find pleasure in the play on words and silly acts of characters that this series offers.
I especially like this one because it is a good transition book and one that I think other students will enjoy as well.Use in the Classroom:This book could be used as an independent read for transitional readers as they are transitioning from beginning books into books that are more difficult.
There are more words not the pages of this book and the book is formatted like a beginning chapter book.
This book would be perfect for 2nd or 3rd graders and I would recommend it students who like Amelia Bedelia books and other books like it.
