https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625893.The_African_Origin_of_Civilization
While CAD is able to cite some 'scholars of good faith' going all the way back to de Volney circa 1785 who observes the (much lightened by mixing) Egyptians and recalls the words of Herodotus, concluding “the ancient Egyptians were true Negroes of the same type as all native-born Africans.”, the majority of the Egyptologists he cites are clearly so deeply sunk in their white-supremacy that they will allow themselves any amount of contradiction, denial and extravagant misinterpretation, and think up any crackpot theory, to avoid accepting the obvious conclusion that THE EGYPTIANS WERE BLACK.Some of these theories propose that the Egyptians came from the North, which is ridiculous, and others create White races with dark skin.
This book is full of information and facts exposing white washing of origins of Carthage, Egypt, etc. Every person of African descent should read this book. African history needs to be claimed back and told from the perspective of the African. It is a definitive work without a doubtHighly recommended reading
if there is a bible of african history this is genesis
The author argues that the ancient Egyptians (Anu) were Negroes.
Their gods Osiris and Isis were depicted as black.
A bas-relief from the 18th Dynasty (16th century BC) depicts the order of races known to the Egyptians: Egyptians, Nahasi (Blacks), Namou (Asian), and Tamhou (tattooed whites).
The Egyptians and Nahasi were different shades of reddish-brown.
The leading Egyptologists of the 19th century argued against the Negro origin of Egyptians, and their theories of a white Egyptian race won out regardless of the evidence.
The Phoenicians and the elite of Carthage were also Negroes.
The Phoenician traders brought white women from Greece to Egypt for the Pharaoh.
Let's just say Elizabeth Taylor was not accurately cast as Cleopatra.
this is one of the textbooks for an Intro to African American Studies class i'm taking.
it's a little tough to read at times, but i think that's because i was overwhelmed at the amount of information Diop provided to counter claims made by historians.
i'm looking forward to checking out some of the sources Diop cited in his arguments.
there's so much history that we don't know...so much that has been denied, disrespected, and removed in relation to Africa.
this book serves as a good foundation to begin to question myths about the real roles of African cultures, including Egypt, in the development of civilization.
The book is divided into 13 chapters, followed by a Conclusion and Notes.Chapter I: What were the Egyptian?Chapter II: Birth of The Negro MythChapter III: The Modern Falsification of HistoryChapter IV: Could Egyptian Civilization Have Originated in The Delta?Chapter V: Could Egyptian Civilization Be of Asian Origin?Chapter VI: The Egyptian Race As Seen and Treated By AnthropologistsChapter VII: Arguments Supporting A Negro OriginChapter VIII: Arguments Opposing A Negro OriginChapter IX: Peopling Of Africa From The Nile ValleyChapter X: Political And Social Evolution of Ancient EgyptChapter XI: Contribution of Ethiopia-Nubia And EgyptChapter XII: Reply To A CriticChapter XIII: Early History of Humanity: Evolution Of The Black WorldDr. Diop points out that western scholars and so-called “Africanist” view African cultures, history and peoples from the outside.
Tremendous amount of information within these pages. Fascinating and illuminating discoveries. Worthy of 5 stars had Diop not been difficult to follow at times. His argument seemingly jumps from points without much connection or reference. If you're going to read this text, I'd highly recommend a dictionary and encyclopedic source remain handy, otherwise this could become a frustrating read rather quickly. If you're up for the challenge--and hopefully you will be because it's SO worth the effort--this proves an astounding scholarly work deserving of mass attention.
Cheikh Anta Diop has to be one of the great African Thinkers of the twentieth century. From the time he published his thesis in 1954, he has consistently challenged western ideas on Africa and its relationship to Ancient Egypt. “The African Origin of Civilization: Myth or Reality” represents his definitive work on early African Civilization and the origins of the Ancient Egyptians.Definitely a must read for anyone interested in African History.
Where should I start?This book reformed my way of thinking about Egyptians and their portrayal in Euro-centric history. In a nutshell: through supreme intellectual prowess, slyness and meticulous scientific research, he shot every lie about Egyptians being white to hell.A must read.http://www.saltygurl.com
A somewhat misguided attempt to reverse colonialist denigration of sub-Saharan African capabilities. Egyptians have a wide range of variation, and range from Mediterranean to sub-Saharan African morphological characteristics. This doesn't mean all Egyptians were exclusively African in origin or that any modern people has a direct tie or claim to this ancient one.
very afrocentric and at times there is a hint of exaggeration in its claims but still a useful book with some fascinating points
This book was eye opening. The historical evidence and analysis convincingly indicated that ancient Egypt has black origins. The author addresses the extent to which this history has been manipulated and whitewashed by western historians and archaeologists. His tone comes across as angry at times but his facts and analyses are impeccable. Anyone interested in black/African history should read this book.
The ancients themselves vastly believed that Egyptians came from the Ethiopians, or a close cousin to the Ethiopians, yet Europeans in the nineteenth century distanced Egypt from the rest of Africa.
It’s as though the Europeans in the nineteenth century intentionally ignored the culture of Ancient Egypt as a convenient way to pretend as though its origins surely came from elsewhere, and not from black Africa.
The reasons why Europeans refused to nurture notions of Ancient Egypt springing from black Africa appear to be intrinsically racist - they wanted to believe as though blacks lacked the ability to form a civilization as advanced as Ancient Egypt on their own.
race is a socio political and economic tool not a biological or genetic 1.
we have to come to the conclusion that history is a document that was not father or fostered by our incumbent controllers of power.
no worries it's more dramatic than in the place considered to be historically inept and that is the African continent.
this book is the original challenge to Eurocentric history it attacks and points out the fundamental premises fornicating what we consider to be true about ancient history.
I would recommend reading this book to anyone who's often wondered why we protrait ancient peoples the way we do in television film and movies.
great book, was very revelatory to me, started reading this book when i was 21 and it gave me a vast perspective on reading literature of all sorts. Sometimes it's interesting to go back and look at those book just to how much influence such reading has on you...peace and lightap
Black Power!!😎
Wonderful it is to have an alternate, truer picture of African people. Tua Dr. Diop, Asante Sana, MOJUBA!
Very insightful not an easy read. You have to constantly think and check out the references, which makes it very insightful in my opinion.
My Hannibal obsession continues...
Excellent! Excellent!
Containing chapters such as, Egyptian Race Seen by Anthropologists, Arguments Against a Negro Origin, Contribution of Ethiopia-Nubia and Egypt, Cheikh Anta Diop provides evidence to support his placing of Black Africa to include Egypt and the ancient arena, so often excluded from history.
Packed full of facts, from a range of sources, ancient, contemporary archeological, linguistical, the development of societies, and African culture.
Diop re-examines the ancient Egyptians, Carthaginians etc and how they have been seen as some kind of lost white tribe by Western historians, separate from Africa, but presents to us that they are in fact, black peoples.
Flashes out things he began to touch on in "Pre-Colonial Black Africa".
Leaves no doubt about the black origins of humanity.
One fact did catch my attention & raise more questions.
He mentions that even in Alaska, there were found people that were as dark & darker than Africa, so I'm curious as to where & how white people came about.
Diop is very thorough with facts & the picture he paints is clear.
He shows the criticism & shows where they are wrong, even where some of them literally contradict themselves given the evidence cited.Very enlightening & thorough book.
An excellent and thorough proof that the Ancient Egyptians were, in fact, black. I'd like to say that this debate has since been settled, but given the number of movies who cast white actors and actresses to play ancient Egyptians and the number of books that depict them with light skin, this is an ongoing battle.
This read is a re-read after forty years. It still rings true. It premise is that residents of the African continent had a great deal of input to the gains attributed to Ancient Greek and Roman culture. This thought was much more controversial than now. There is more archeological evidence about.
A short informational book. A good resource for research
Cheikh Anta Diop is one of the brilliant and courageous group of Black Scholars who emerged with works during the period of the 1960's & '70's to challenge the European Scholars' view of history, including the generally accepted and predominant views on the development of civilization and the contributions of the Black race in the development and advancement of civilization.
Additionally, Dr. Diop presents very impressive arguments and analysis in support of the "monogenetic" thesis of humanity, meaning that all races are descended from the Black race.
This book is, at times, a rather difficult read, as it contains quite a bit of technical and scientific proofs and arguments.
At first it's not clear why Diop is addressing some topics because the book doesn't clearly layout the prevailing thoughts on the origins of Kemet.
After reading the book and engaging more people about the origins it becomes more clear that things like Berber culture, Ancient Libya and other cultures in proximity must be examined with scrutiny before claims can be made and proven.
If you are new to Egyptology I would say this book holds up well and you will not find yourself embarrassed by discussing most of the content within it.
This book should be required reading for all adults and children.
Far too often people ask me "what color where the ancient 'Egyptians'- it shouldn't matter but it is made to matter as the people of amazing civilizations, technologies, magics, arts and literature, just to name a few things that we still use to this day.
Yes, they were of different skin tones but they were NOT white; they wee Black, and they should be remembered as such.
These people whom ask me such shallow questions want and tend to remember them as white.
There are many works that prove this, including common sense, but this book is an epic place to start.
I have read this book four times and each time I breathe a breath of fresh air. I cannot say enough about this man and his life's work. Wow! I had heard the his general thesis projected before by other researchers, but when I read this book with the detailed evidence I was more than convinced.
