https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1519670.A_Worn_Path
An old woman named Phoenix Jackson makes a journey that, from the title alone, we sense is one she has made many times before.
The reason for her journey is not immediately evident, but Welty’s lovely prose made me feel as if I was on this quest with her.
Overhead the live-oaks met, and it was as dark as a cave." A Worn Path also reflects the racism and poverty of Mississippi during those times (the story was written in 1941).
I would love to immerse myself more fully in one of Welty’s full length novels sometime soon.
The worn path is a trail that old Aunt Phoenix has taken since she was a young girl, from her place back off the Old Natchez Trace into the town of Natchez.
How old is she?
"There's no telling", she says.
But she must be close to 100.
"I never did go to school, I was too old at the Surrender", she says.
Her trip this time is to get medicine for her grandson.
The trip, the people she meets, the things she sees, are so beautifully and vividly described by Welty that it's like watching the movie.
It is most probably the early 1900s; the Civil War is spoken of as having occurred, but long ago.A person can read this story in two ways.
Note, as she takes the long and difficult journey to the hospital, she never tells us this, and she talks as she walks--to herself, to the animals along the way and to the people she meets, some kind, some mean and one very dangerous.
The walk, what she sees and experiences through her senses, rather than what happens, is the best of the story.The short story captures the poverty and racial inequality that persisted after the Civil War.Is there no one other than me that questions what we are told?
Powerful and heart breaking.http://xroads.virginia.edu/~drbr/ew_p...
Just my take on this but **SPOILERS ** maybe if you've not read it.*****************************************Even as I started reading this very short story I had the feeling that it was about the last journey we all have to make.Phoenix an ancient black lady sets out on a very long walk with a 'cane made from an umbrella'.She has walked this path up hills through the pine trees and down hill through the Oaks many times, indeed her feet know their own way.She is on a mission to get medicine for a beloved grandson.On her journey she encounters hardship, and danger as well as good fortune and kindness.
Welty takes us on a journey with Phoenix, an elderly Southern black lady, as she treks a path she knows well from her home to the doctor's office in town. Along the way, we learn a great deal about both Phoenix and the environment in which she lives. Welty packs a great deal into a very short story.
A Negro woman, poor and ancient, travels on foot in the woods, with a stick, trying to conquer the great distance from her humble abode to the nearest town.
She talks to herself, to imagined and real persons and animals she meet.
She remembers, forgets, suffers and sins.In most of our real lives, like those dirty beggars who knock on your car window as you try to drive through the rush hour traffic each day, this old woman is not someone whom you would cast your merest attention to.
This is really a short story but in a lovely volume which I found in our library shop. Although not usually a fan of short stories, this one I really enjoyed. It's a tale of an elderly black woman in Mississippi making a long trek into town on foot. Having lived in Mississippi as a child, this little story held great interest for me and Eudora Welty is one of my favorite Mississippi authors.
3.75 :)
Her novel The Optimist's Daughter won the Pulitzer Prize in 1973.A Worn Path is about Old Phoenix (a mythological bird...does that have meaning?) Jackson (they also elude she is around 100 yrs old) and her journey from her quiet rural life to town in order to get the medicine for her beloved grandson is a ritual of caring she must do.
A Worn Path eludes to the many times she has overcome the obstacles along the way to achieve her goal.The story tells of the poor life (apron made of sugar sacks) Phoenix has, but she is full of love, persistence and gumption.
She must walk a very long way to town to get medicine for her grandson.
She makes it to town and then she has to walk all the way home again.The main character is the old lady, her name we find out is Aunt Phoenix, but most people just call her Granny.
She is very determined to get to town for the medicine for her grandson.The story takes place by the town of Natchez, which is a town in Southern Mississippi.
I don't think most high school students would like this story very much.
The best thing about this story for me was the description. The out-dated short film based off of it kind of ruined it for me. It was all right.
Based on her encounter with two elderlu women while out painting. She caught a glimpse of one crossing a field "obviously on a mission for someone else, so intently she was walking." The second woman she talked to giving her the line Aunt Phoenix says, "My memory failed me. I was too old at the surrender to get an education." She said these two women merged into one in this story.Phoenix is an apporpriate name for the region as well as symbolic of her life-giving mission.Welty wrote an essay saying she never intended to suggest the grandson was dead.
I had to read this for my Women's Literature class in college. I had read this before also, for another English class at some point. I like it. I feel bad for the old woman making the long trek, but I admire her determination and love she has for her grandson.
Great writing, but why would I want to read something so boring? No offense.
The story of the journey of the grandmother to the store turns into an insightful allegory for all of our journies.
A short story about an elderly woman, Phoenix Jackson who loves her grandson so much that she endures a painful journey to town on a road in a rural area to acquire medicine for her grandson who suffers from a throat ailment.
She expresses herself and her surroundings in the form of a monologue, warning away animals and expressing the pain she feels in her bones due to her old age.
The story revolves around compassion and courage beyond reason.
Phoenix is willing to make the journey to town at any time it is needed, despite her own age and waning health.
I'm not the type of readers who like stories with a lot of details and description becauseit's boring. Thanks God it's only about 32 pages. I felt like there is nothing new or original about it's themes.
Although short this is a very moving story, making us feel within short pages as if we had read a longer tale. A beautiful story about an old woman and the path she follows coming from a place of love within her to keep her grandson healthy.
*SPOILER ALERT* What a story. An old African American woman traveling to get her grandson's medicine. She is one tough lady, although she is dealing with some issues to do with old age, which is sad to think about. What will her grandson do when she passes? That question is probably what makes her keep fighting to live and make the journey to the doctor's office. She deals with a lot of crap along the way (even has a man pull a gun on her for FUN. What even is that?) What a woman. What a story. I love it.
A nice short story about perseverance and love though too short and not enough developed for me to rate it highly.
Fifty times, I've taught this, and I haven't touched bottom, yet. Sometimes, a short story is a better vehicle for literary depths than a thick novel.
Such a cute story of an old women on a journey. She takes a journey of heroic proportions (for an old women) and deals with it with bravery!
A sweet, mild story with good descriptions.
Not my favorite, but not absolutely horrible, either...
Read in English Class.
This story is beautiful, yet heart breaking. Eudora Welty wrote such detailed descriptions of the scenes, that you felt as if were walking along the path with Phoenix.
An incredibly old woman named Phoenix is taking a familiar journey on foot, and we walk with her every step of the way.
We find out why she is there, and know that she will have to return, and then the story ends.
At her destination, Phoenix is plunked down into reality for a moment and there are some clues about what the true situation may be.
She can't remember enough to answer questions, too lost in her very old mind.
So we don't know, in this story, and it's for us to decide.It's well-executed, but ultimately to me was sort of boring.
The story focuses on a cane-walking elderly woman, who goes on a long journey by foot into the nearest town to help her grandson get his medication.
It’s a character-orientated plot that is about will and determination.
The book gives clear insight into the context, with the use of heavy description and symbolism.
The vernacular used in dialogue suggests the socio-economic influence on the characters education and associations, with the protagonist appearing to be isolated and illiterate.I didn't find the book particularly arousing, as it felt like nothing more than a walk with someone's grandmother.
Phoenix is an old woman on a journey to get medicine for her grandson.
Along the way, she talked with herself and other people.
With her journey being greatly described, I think that whether her grandson is dead or not is not the thing that matters, but it is her effort to get to her destination that is important.
Whether or not her grandson is getting well she still goes on because quoting Welty, "And finally, too, like Phoenix, you have to assume that what you are working in aid of is life, not death.
