https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30919.Scoop
Nancy Mitford asked him how he reconciled his often objectionable conduct and attitude with being a Christian, said he replied that "were he not a Christian he would be even more horrible".All of this is on display in this absolutely hilarious farce of a book, and right at the beginning the tone is set, "That’s Mrs. Cohen,” said Effie.
The snobbery which the non-ethnic characters displayed was equally harsh and that is perhaps the key as to why such an ostensibly nasty book by such an unpleasant man is so funny, he must have seen himself in all of this, "He was gifted with the sly, sharp instinct for self-preservation that passes for wisdom among the rich," and so it's a bit of a send-up, and that's something we can all appreciate.
This is a comic novel about Journalism and the newspaper industry and is a very effective satire.
The story is based on Waugh’s experiences working for the Daily Mail as a foreign correspondent covering Mussolini’s invasion of Abyssinia in 1935.
Lord Copper owner of the Daily Beast has learnt that something is going on in Ishmaelia.
There is a good cast of supporting characters; many of whom are based on people Waugh knew.
The character of William Boot is said to be loosely based on Bill Deedes who had been with Waugh covering the situation in Abyssinia.
I'm, well outraged isn't the right word, made weary by the dreariness of the other reviews of this book: plot summaries, gestures towards its transhistorical narratives (or towards its capturing that peculiar moment before the Nazis invaded Poland), and hamfisted comparisons to P.
And then, well, there's the fact that the book is terribly racist.
It's not racist in a Mein Kampf or Turner Diaries kind of way; there's no particular program Waugh wants to push; but the novel nevertheless goes hand-in-thoughtless-hand with the postwar atrocities committed by Britain in Kenya.
Simply a record of its time?Of course not.
Review was first posted on BookLikes: http://brokentune.booklikes.com/post/...For nearly two weeks now, the bent and creased copy of Scoop sitting on my desk has been staring at me.
For the best part of the last two weeks, I have looked at my old copy of Scoop and wondered whether to chuck it onto the charity shop pile or straight into the bin.
Even looking at Waugh as a representative of a time when sentiments of racial or cultural stereotyping were common and widely accepted, I wonder whether there was a need for it in Scoop because this was not a part of the book that was satirical.
Here, for example, Waugh sketches the front yard of a woman who rents out rooms on her property:"The Pension Dressler stood in a side street and had, at first glance, the air rather of a farm than of a hotel.
One day the rope would break; she knew it and so did Frau Dressler's guests." (156)Phrases such as "meteoric onslaught" are an excellent example of the skillful hand that Waugh brings to language.Only one aspect of this book did not work, whatsoever, and that is the rampant racism that Waugh shows for black people.
I trust Waugh to make me laugh, and I am sure that I will turn to his work again in the future.
Waugh followed the near-perfect "Handful of Dust," with "Scoop," an absolutely perfect "Newspaper Adventure" that satirizes journalism, especially as practiced by foreign correspondents.
Inevitably, Waugh portrays journalists as drunk, fast talking adventurers, who are not above making up a story in their pursuit of fame and fortune.
Waugh's knowledge of Africa, and the people fighting over its spoils, gives this book a verisimilitude that is rare in the world of satire.
if you just want to read one satire by Waugh, this would be the place to start (with "Dust" as the best of his "serious" books).
Journalists seem to love this guy. He's awfully snarky for a writer from the 1930s--but oh so good. A quick read, "Scoop" is about a man "named" John Boot gets accidentally sent to Ishmaila as a foreign correspondent. The fellow manages to report some news after blazing through his budget and falling in love with a married gold digger named Katchen. Meanwhile Waugh paints a hilarious portrait of foreign correspondent idiots creating fake news and running around chasing ridiculous leads. It's not the nicest picture of journalists, but pretty funny. And Waugh creates the most ridiculous situations in his novels.
Neustále narážam na recenzie od novinárov, že toto je najvtipnejšia kniha o žurnalistike v dejinách britského impéria, a asi naozaj.
Waugh je pre deadpan humor čím bol Shakespeare pre drámu, ibaže Waugha sa už dnes ťažko niekto odváži napodobnovať, keďže "neger" sa už nehovorí a impérium bielych Angličanov už tiež nie je práve pri sile.Takisto, 9 z 10 autorov beletrie sa môže z tejto knižočky učiť, ako vystavať epickú dejovú líniu a postavy na priestore, na ktorom sa v inom románe postava nestihne ani zamyslene pozrieť z okna na zasneženú krajinu.Obľúbený citát: "V civilizovanejších kolóniách ako táto posielajú namiesto lekárov vojakov.
Urobia kruh okolo miesta, kde je mor, a zastrelia každého, kto sa snaží ujsť.
Ale tu, tu pre týchto chudákov nemôžeme vôbec nič urobiť."
Excerpt (Newspaper magnate Lord Copper to his employee William Boot who dare not contradict him):-"Let me see, what's the name of the place I mean? Capital of Japan? Yokohama, isn't it?""Up to a point, Lord Copper"- this sublime obfuscation of the truth has entered our family treasure-trove of useful retorts.Scoop is utterly non-PC satire at its best - i.e. a wickedly funny skewering of British pre-war colonial snobbery at its worst.
Ορολογία των δημοσιογράφων που χαρακτηρίζει αυτό το ξέφρενο κυνήγι στο οποίο επιδίδονται εδώ οι χαρακτήρες, έρμαια για την πρωτιά της πρωτοσέλιδης είδησης.Το μικρό αυτό μυθιστόρημα είναι εξαιρετικό.
Μόνο που εδώ η χάλκευση τυχαίων περιστατικών είναι ο ακρογωνιαίος λίθος, όπως μαθαίνουμε, της σύνταξης ειδήσεων: ένα ολιγόλο μήνυμα μιας εξωφρενικής είδησης, ταξιδεύει στην σύνταξη και το οποίο μεταμορφώνεται σε ολόκληρο κείμενο, ικανό να κλονίσει συθέμελα την κοινή άποψη.
Όπως ο Βω λέει στο εισαγωγικό σημείωμα του βιβλίου, η συγγραφή για εκείνον δεν είναι ψυχογράφημα εις βάθος, αλλά μια άσκηση πάνω στην γλώσσα, με την οποία είναι έμμονος.
“News is what a chap who doesn’t care much about anything wants to read.”  Scoop  is a much-admired satirical novel by Evelyn Waugh, widely held to be a comedic literary classic. It was first published in 1938 and recounts the tale of British foreign correspondents reporting on a civil war from the fictional East African country of Ishmaelia. Waugh had himself worked as a special correspondent in Ethiopia during the 1930s, reporting for the Daily Mail on Mussolini's invasion. His experience lef
is a much-admired satirical novel by Evelyn Waugh, widely held to be a comedic literary classic.
It paints journalists as callous, corruptible buffoons, and was described by Christopher Hitchens in his introduction to my modern Penguin Classic as: “A novel of pitiless realism; the mirror of satire held up to catch the Caliban of the press corps.”It therefore saddens me to report that I didn't entirely connect with Scoop.
However, Scoop remains one of his most popular works and is regarded by many as being one of the funniest pieces of fiction ever written about journalism.
This book, these musty papers are 8 years older than i am!It was a 50c find, among boxes of old books for sale at the school fair last month.
And it has that marvelous musty old book smell.
Having read only Brideshead Revisited many years ago, when i was too young to really appreciate it, but old enough to like it anyway, it felt like my introduction to the satire of Evelyn Waugh.
The book has lively eccentric characters, you can see the old movie in your brain.
(read several years ago, came across the jottings today)
Orwell said Waugh was almost as good a novelist as it is possible to be while holding untenable opinions. “Outside the owls hunted maternal rodents and their furry brood”; funny how he mercilessly speared sentimentality, given that it’s such a fundamental part of the fascism that he seemed quite partial to. But then internal logic was never the strong suit of bigots.
Add me to the list: hilarious. Sort of a British "salt-of-the-earth" comedy, where the common man is wiser than his supposed betters.
λαβράκια που πέτυχα σε κάποιο βιβλιοσαφάρι πριν από δυο χρόνια, έναντι δυο ή τριών ευρώ (να με συγχωρείτε, δεν θυμάμαι και πολύ καλά).
Ο Γουό σατιρίζει και καυτηριάζει τα ειδησεογραφικά πρακτορεία, τους δημοσιογράφους και τους ανταποκριτές, με όλες τις γκάφες, το ατελείωτο και τρελό κυνήγι που πέφτει για ένα καλό δημοσιογραφικό λαβράκι και, μερικές φορές, την ανάγκη τους για δημιουργία ψεύτικων ειδήσεων που θα συγκλονίσουν τους αναγνώστες τους.
Διάβασα την ελληνική μετάφραση, που μου φάνηκε αρκετά γλαφυρή και ικανοποιητική για τα χρόνια της, αλλά είμαι σίγουρος ότι η όλη αναγνωστική απόλαυση θα είναι κλάσεις ανώτερη αν κάποιος διαβάσει το βιβλίο στ'αγγλικά (αρκεί, πάντα, να έχει σχετική αναγνωστική εμπειρία).
Delightful, old fashioned, smart , funny, not at all politically correct. In fact Evelyn Waugh at his best. It is a very short book but I enjoyed every minute of it. The main character fumbles his way through outrageous situations but always has the fates on his side and he always comes up a winner. I loved it!
Hearst response was “You supply the pictures, I’ll supply the war.” True or not it’s a story about the power of the press and the ability of unscrupulous publishers to ‘manufacture’ news.
I was reminded of it immediately on reading Evelyn Waugh’s novel Scoop, a satire centring on the pursuit of a non-existent story about a non-existent war.
Yes, the press can work like that, spinning something out of nothing, though more in the days of Beaverbrook and Northcliffe, the British equivalents of Hearst and most probably the models for the frightful Lord Copper.So, that’s it, part satire, part comedy of errors.
So, it’s one of the hundred greatest novels of all time; really?
From BBC Radio 4:Dramatisation by Jeremy Front of Evelyn Waugh's satirical 1938 novel.Episode 1:Hapless journalist William Boot is mistakenly sent to report on a war in Africa.Episode 2:William finds life as a war correspondent somewhat tedious, but he does fall in love and find himself in the middle of a revolution.
Odd book really. Very dated language and ideas. Didn't see any of the humour, but the irony was laid on in spades
I’d be embarrassed to be a journalist, were I one, after reading Scoop; the book is a caricaturization of the occupation itself.
It’s borderline touching and metaphorical at others (recall the description of Boot in love).
Scoop is inundated throughout with Waugh’s dry humor.
Yet: Waugh, in Scoop, is a master of prose.
There is clear exaggeration involved in Waugh’s description of journalism, but how much of it does Waugh consider hyperbolic?
I began the book by thinking that Boot was the tragic hero, but he is certainly not.
If anything, Boot is Waugh’s inversion of the tragic hero.
Rereading this after many years, I'm less impressed than I was with it when I first read it - mainly because the racism jars more than it did then, but also because at times the plot seems too slight and to hinge too much on an improbable deus ex machina.The character of William Boot is a delight, however, and the naif-thrown-into-a-bearpit scenario works very well.
Larger-than-life characters, such as Lord Copper and Boot's mysterious rescuer leap off the page.There's a few too many journalistic in-jokes for my taste, though, and the crowd of journalists in Jacksonburg are too indistinguishable from one another.
Due to a case of mistaken identity, a mild-mannered columnist on country life, William Boot, is sent as a war correspondent to Ishmaelia, an independent African nation where dissent is brewing between long-time ruling family the Jacksons and anarcho-communist upstarts prompted by German and Russian interests.
Boot, though utterly stymied by the lackadaisical and corrupt Ishmaleian government (as well as his fellow journalists), and through no merit of his own, scoops everyone and returns to an unwelcome hero’s welcome.The first time I read this was seventeen years ago.
But Waugh is much more scathing: of the fatuous, ant-brained upper classes, of the bumptious but ultimately useless journalistic set, of the oafish and self-centered country dwellers.
This was quite a ride!
I started this when my brain felt a little fried but I was gripped from the beginning and couldn't stop reading it.
I had no idea where this book was going to lead me.I got into a good conversation with my roommate about the media and it was funny comparing the satiric depiction of journalists in the novel to news sources today as to how much of what is reported is factual.
It is all rather absurd.
Not that it isn't a serious problem but it is so nice to be able to laugh about it sometimes.
Funny and fanciful, Scoop does not really feel nearly 80 years old reading it now. The various Boots are all hilarious as is Ishmaelia and the Jacksons. Incredible that this was written before WWII but still accurately depicts what I imagine of modern Beastly vs Brute journalism as represented by CNN Domestic vs Fox News in the US,TF1 vs M6 here in France...I think that unfortunately, there are two many Jacksons still devouring Africa except that are Chinese rather than European now. In any case, Waugh is a wonderful writer and Scoop is a great, fun read.
Never before has there been such a great takedown of the press, especially of foreign correspondents.
William Boot, columnist for The Beast, is mistaken for another writer named Boot and sent as a foreign correspondent to Ishmaelia, an unstable country in East Africa, which has recently been inundated by journalists.
All of them have more experience than poor William Boot.One day, the journalists are sent to a place that doesn't exist (their destination, Laku, means "I don't know" in Ishmaeli).
While they are gone, Jacksonburg, the capital, has a revolution, which is covered only by Boot, whom The Beast wishes to honor.
Part 1 amusingPart 2 soporific (unfortunately)Part 3 ...I did have to laugh at portrait of British publishing elite! Review
This is hands down one of the funniest, most enjoyable books I've ever read.
If you haven't read any Evelyn Waugh books recently (or ever), it's not too late to (re-)discover this master satirist.
I've only just started reading him in August 2014, and he's already become one of my favourite writers.
Brideshead Revisited is of a different mood, one that did not work for me.
So, tallying it all up including this book (Scoop), Evelyn is batting 7 for 9 with me.
Not bad, Evelyn.
Not bad.Forget Brideshead Revisited.
Get yourself a copy of Scoop today.
I started Scoop in winter 2008.
I finished Scoop in spring 2010.
I pretty much only finished reading it so that I could get it off my bookshelves once and for all.Admittedly, the satire — about corrupt publishers and incompetent journalists — is something that I can appreciate as a journalist.
But it gets old fast.
And the 1930s, British humor gets cheesy really fast.
And since Scoop drags on for a long time in the middle, I just dropped it.I'm sure other people will think 1930s satire is hilarious, but personally I prefer modern novels with modern dialogue / characters / humor.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلية : ٢٠٠٤مليئة بكل شئ..بالحياة بكل فضائحياتها
The humour is everywhere and covers Boot’s preparations to travel, his purchases, the journalists’ behaviour, Boot’s appallingly written dispatches, his relationship with the prospector’s wife, the horrible hotel food and its worst danger, a goat that charges every time someone walks up the path.I am not going to reveal more purely because this is a short book and I’d hate to spoil any of it for you.
