https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2861111-la-comtesse-de-cagliostro
"We will play all the stunning tricks and laugh together!" OMG, love this spirit!La Comtesse de Cagliostro, or ' Countess de Cagliostro', is the 12th book in the Arsene Lupin series, serving as the 'origin story' of the infamous gentleman thief:Note: I read the Chinese translation of this book.We meet the 20 years old Arsene Lupin (although he didn't call himself this at that time) who is an penniless orphaned young man with no family good name and background for protection, but what he lacks i
Romance, love triangle, schemes and conflicts ensured.(Link: http://www.cinetrafic.fr/film/1695/ar...)I'm happy to meet the 20 years old Arsene Lupin at his humble beginning, it also amuses me to see the guy acting like a typical teenage male: he is self central, arrogant, irresponsible, thinking all women should adore him, impulsive, overly-confident with his charms and capabilities (though he has been proved to be inexperienced and naive for more than a few times in the story).
¡Por fin conozco a la Condesa de Cagliostro!Si bien describe las primeras andanzas de Lupin cuando todavía es Raul, en su adolescencia, esta novela se escribió varios años después de que LeBlanc publicara las primeras.No me extenderé. Me ha gustado, principalmente porque Lupin es el puto amo y adoro al personaje. La Cagliostro es una digna alma gemela, con su intensa relación de amor/odio. La historia te engancha y tiene todo lo necesario para disfrutarla de principio a fin. La siguiente de Lupin será una relectura.
A highly melodramatic book. I tried to read it to see what was so great about Lupin, but could not stand Leblanc's style; even the fact that I read it in French did not help! The Comtesse de Cagliostro is as pathetic as a silent movie character. The "tension" at the beginning of the story is artificial and the drama excessive. It seems that although this is the 12th book in the series, it is not Leblanc's best, so I will try Arsène Lupin, Gentleman-Cambrioleur, the first he wrote, in 1907.
I enjoyed the writing style and it's a fun way to brush up my French.The story is ridiculous. Don't even get me started on the characters. I could only finish this by pretending that it's narrated by Lupin himself and that he is the most unreliable narrator EVER.
Parfois incroyable, mais toujours intelligent... et captivant.
4,5
Ah cela faisait longtemps que je n'avais pas lu d'Arsène Lupin. C'est toujours un plaisir ! J'aime son humour, sa vivacité d'esprit et sa capacité à se sortir des pires situations. Ici, on le retrouve dans sa jeunesse encore assez candide et fou amoureux de son adversaire la plus redoutable : Joséphine Balsamo, comtesse de Cagliostro !
I confess I'm huge fan of Leblanc's Lupin novels, but this one really disappointed...I don't want to spoil the plot, but needless to say Leblanc coughs up one of his standard characterless females (blessed with great beauty and the mandatory "limpid" eyes etc.) for Lupin to fall in love with - familiar territory.
Between Leblanc worshipping Lupin and Lupin worshipping Lupin, there wasn't much to enjoy.Still, I kept waiting for Leblanc to deliver the magnificent blow that'd deflate Lupin's ego, inject a little self-depreciating comedy into the stale sycophantic slop, and make the whole thing fun.
For me the scissors scene resembled a magnificent leap - Lupin plunged right over the anti-hero line and straight into screwed-up misogynist territory.
Questo libro racconta della nascita di quello che diventerà uno dei ladri più famosi della storia della letteratura, oscurerà anche il Rocambole di Ponson du Terrail, e darà il via ad una serie di cartoni animati di Monkey Punch che restano a tutt'oggi un capolavoro.
Se come me siete cresciuti guardando le avventura di Lupin III e quelle dei suoi amici, questo libro vi lascerà un po' con l'amaro in bocca, perchè il personaggio letterario, a parte il nome, condivide molto poco con il suo quasi omonimo disegnato.
He still is.In this book, Leblanc clearly states Lupin's strenghts and weaknesses.
Even though Raoul is caught in a youthful passion, his mind still functions in the background, making him, eventually, see who really is La Cagliostro.J'ai lu les histoires d'Arsène Lupin pour une première fois il y a environ 20 ans.
Maurice Leblanc a toujours fait partie de mes auteurs favoris et il le demeure.Dans ce livre, Maurice Leblanc défini clairement les forces et les faiblesse d'Arsène Lupin.
Même si Raoul se trouve pris dans les filets d'une passion juvénile, son esprit demeure alerte en arrière-plan.
I've read a few of Arséne Lupin's stories, only one of them made me laugh a couple times, the rest I thought were not intelligent enough (considering it was supposedly Sherlock Holmes' competition). But this one in particular I found dull to no end. I was bored from page one, and although the French is not particularly hard, I got lost far too many times, and I blame the story, because not once was I interested in what was going to happen next. I just wanted the book to end. Maybe I'll have better luck with another story.
Mon intéret dans ce roman vient du fait qu'il fourmit l'inspiration du "Chateu du Cagliostro" un des meilleurs films de Hayao Miyazaki. Dans l'ensemble on ne voit presqu'aucun trace du film dans le roman, mais il y en a finallement.Les romans d'Arsene Lupin ont un certain valeur pour des Anglophones comme moi qui veulent pratiquer leur francais sans se fatigue outre mesure. Je ne vois pas de grandes raisons pour les francophones de les lire.
Light and entertaining read.
The protag is kinda a prat, but he makes you laugh.
