https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6944032-night-pleasures
This was an ok read. Buffy references are always appreciated.
Warning—This book is strictly for fantasy lovers and please do not attempt if you do not believe in Santa or big-foot!!! He was a Dark-Hunter and she was an accountant.There had never been two more mismatched people born.A short-note for the readers–-Who or rather what are Dark-Hunters?When someone suffers a horrible injustice their soul makes a scream so loud that it resonates through the halls of Olympus.When Artemis,goddess of moon hears it,she goes and offers the one who has been betrayed a
Warning—This book is strictly for fantasy lovers and please do not attempt if you do not believe in Santa or big-foot!!!
---------------------3.5 to 4 starsTo all my dear fantasy lovers,I promise a treat.You’ll laugh,you’ll cry,you’ll love and sometimes bask in the silly,childish warmth of this story.ENJOY!!!**Bobo,thanks for buddy-reading it with me!!**
I couldn't find myself bleeding over Kyrian's tortured past and, at times, I wanted to shake silly Amanda and tell her to shut up.Based on what I just said, one might wonder why I'm giving this book 3 stars.
The story was interesting and there were some good scenes, like the one where Amanda dreams/sees Kyrian's past and death.
I'm OCD about reading series in order and I already know I'll have to work on that because it looks like the next book in the series won't be a winner either.
This book sounded so promising, it was my first read by Sherrilyn Kenyon and I'd heard many people raving on about how great her Dark Hunter novels were; and as a fan of paranormal romance and urban fantasy, I couldn't wait to find another sexy, dark series to get into, complete with the usual array of vampires and mythology.The problem with the paranormal romance genre, and even more so the urban fantasy genre, is that after you've read a few of them they all start to form a similar pattern with characters you begin to recognise from other books plus the same old storylines and ancient mythology (I'm getting so good at remembering greek gods).
(hide spoiler)]Best thing that came out of his mouth: You know, I really hate Romans, but I have to say their descendants make one fine automobile.He finds his one true love when: A Daimon cuffs them together.He falls for her because: I didn't quite get that, and I’m not sure that even he knows, but I think it was because a few hours after he met her, they were un-cuffed and she was sad to see him go.
The story was utterly engaging and enjoyable, so much so that I couldn't put it down. Sherrilyn Kenyon has done it again! Her writing is practically flawless. I loved every single thing that happened in this book.It broke my heart when I knew Kyrian's painful history. No wonder he wouldn't trust and love any woman since his wife had betrayed him. By the way, There were some interesting characters whom I would like to know more in the other books. I was absolutely intrigued by this series!
He still has nightmares and phobias about it.Amanda: An accountant who was in the wrong place at the wrong time.One thing I loved: Amanda is given a special Barbie with knives that shoot out of her feet.Settings: New Orleans, Louisiana I loved the humor, the story, the characters, the mythology.Favourite quote: "So, you're like Angel?"He rolled his eyes at her.
"You watch way too much television," he muttered.Then louder, he said, "Angel has a soul, I don't.""Now, you're back to being scary again."The look on his face reiterated his earlier words: Baby, you ain't seen scary yet.
They fall in love and stuff....THINGS I DIDN'T LIKE - Kyrian is sarcastic and joking.
Both Kyrian and Amanda read minds in this book and I hate it.
She's like: Kyrian is giving up his mental connection into Amanda's mind.
Here, it's stated that if Kyrian orgasms with Amanda ('cause of love and stuff - doesn't work with other women) then he will lose his powers.
I know people complain about this, but in romance novels I really enjoy the "damaged" hero or heroine being healed or set free by love and good sex.
Just finished my reread and I loved this just as much, if not more, the second time.
Her books are the perfect blend of tortured heroes, strong heroines, engaging plot, intricate mythology, heart touching moment and the sweetest HEAs. I really love how she also clearly had an overall story arc from page one.
During my reread, I caught a lot of things that set up books far down the series that I never noticed the first time.
Best PNR series hands down :) PS, I'd recommend starting the series with this book (not the prequel Fantasy Lover).
Me ha encantado este primer libro de los Cazadores Oscuros. El universo que crea la autora es muy interesante y me encantan su sentido del humor y los tiras y aflojas verbales de los dos protagonistas. Kyrian, además de ser supersexy, es un amor y Amanda es una gran protagonista femenina. Pero la escena álgida del final me ha parecido un poco precipitada y desmañada, de ahí que no le dé, por poco, las 5 estrellas.
There are tons of these type of things: Stroking tonguesMoaning into mouthsHot gazesHungry looksAnd melting...lots and lots of melting...O_oSo, yeah...On the other hand, the world is really cool and original.
I like the Dark Hunter origin story and the Greek mythology.
And, of course they are magnetically attracted to each other, and of course she is now in danger unless he protects her.There are many Dark Hunters, they are all gorgeous, and they all have sad back stories, and apparently they are all going to fall in love.
And, the good news is that they seem to get all hot and bothered by average, somewhat chubby, everyday women.
the very first dark hunter book and still one of my all time favs. we are introduced into the world of the dark-hunters who protect us from those that walk the night praying on our souls, and to a hole cast of people that come to life as the books series continues.
"Well, I'm not an expert, but that guy behind you looks like a Daimon to me."  Captivating writing style, appealing and lovable characters, and unique world-building make this novel really enjoyable.The writing is professional. The information about the characters, the background myth, the world-building, the different kinds of beings, the story of Kyrian, and the significance of the secondary and tertiary characters are all built up very accurately and smoothly. As the story progresses, every
Captivating writing style, appealing and lovable characters, and unique world-building make this novel really enjoyable.The writing is professional.
The information about the characters, the background myth, the world-building, the different kinds of beings, the story of Kyrian, and the significance of the secondary and tertiary characters are all built up very accurately and smoothly.
"What kind of life have you lived, little one, that everything seems to be a question of fair and unfair?
Her character is really special with her suppressed and finally activated abilities.
As in every paranormal romance, the realization that they are in love comes pretty fast.
Mistaken for her twin, she is attacked and the next thing she knows she's handcuffed to a big, tall and sexy who she can't help but want...of course.Enter Kyrian.I don't know why I have such a thing for tortured past-brooding tempered- smoldering vamps, but at last, Kyrian is very tasty and I love that sexy humor.I guess technically this would be the first book for the Dark Hunters.
Fantasy Lover introducing the world and Julian's role, but Night Pleasure is the first one that has the Dark Hunters in it.
It was good to see Julian and Grace again and we meet new characters as well, Nick and Acheron (Ash).
Love it
Goooooooood!Okay, this book is better than Rachael’s meat, peas, onions, whip cream, jam and raspberry English trifle.
Although it’s definitely a read that’s outside of my preferred genre, I feel Sherrilyn Kenyon has what it takes to hook most paranormal/urban fantasy fans with her Dark Hunter Series and Night Pleasures was a great installment!I loved all the snarky dialog between Amanda and Kyrian.
But, the great thing about it is that Kenyon does a great job of developing their characters that you come to instantly like them, so reading the spice doesn’t feel awkward or forced.
I've been on a real binge this month, discovering Sherrilyn Kenyon's work!The world she created not only is dark, ominous and terrifying but is also bright, full of humor and filled with sexy demi gods and demons.I loved how she mixed greek mythology with contemporary fairy tales...
Her heroines are full on snark and mischief, gods and goddess impetuous as ever and the Dark Hunters...
I haven't met one I didn't like...I'm up to book 5 now and they keep getting better and better!
I must say, I only have one thing in mind : To read Acheron's book!
And I have to give it to Sherrilyn Kenyon...
Wow, Dark Hunters are far more than just being dark.
Kyrian is a Dark Hunter.
Amanda who is in a boring relationship and who comes from a very unconventional family was kidnapped by the evil that Kyrian is after because he was looking for her twin but she ended up being handcuffed to Kyrian, which wasn't a bad thing, but also started their spiral to a relationship with a chemistry like no other.
I loved the story and all the characters in this book.
I devoured this story.
I'm looking forward to continuing this series and finding more about Talon & Acheron and to see who's next to be released from the darkness.
3 1/2 "I'm Torn" Stars!Well, This one is hard for me to rate and review.
On one hand, I liked Kyrian and Amanda a lot.
They were both very worthy characters to root for; and I certainly rooted hard for their HEA.
On the other hand, I could not get a hold on the tone of the story.
There was a very dark and sad undertone to the story, but there was a lot of slapstick comedy that I found kind of annoying.
I know sad stories need a lift, but...
I'm so happy Kyrian and Amanda found each other.
I didn't expect to fall in love with everyone!
Kyrian was such a broken guy much need in love and he got it in spades from the wonderful Amanda.
They were cute!
I just, I can't form coherent thoughts about how damn cute they were.
I'm so intrigued by Acheron because it seemed like he had a tough past and I love my tortured hero...but why the heck is his book like the 8th??????
The only reason this book isn't getting higher stars because it started with some serious insta-lust and I hate insta-anything and it still didn't really work even with them being soulmates.
Greek Gods + Vampires + Daimons + Hunters + Insignificant Humans blabbering = the whole book! Concept: 2.0/5.0Execution: 2.5/5.0 Characters Bespoken: 3.0 /5.0Cover: 3.0/5.0Overall: 2.75/5.0As for Kyrian and Amanda:The constant cheesy dry humour bantering between them was addictive!
There was plenty of material in this book, in particular Kyrian's tormented past, which should have lent itself to rip-your-heart-out moments, yet I found myself having a difficult time fully engaging my emotions while reading it.
In Night Pleasures though, Amanda accidentally finds out about Kyrian's past through her psychic talents, which in my opinion, closed a lot of doors for communication.Kyrian and Amanda were both very nice, likable characters, but because of the previously cited issues I had with the story, I don't think I ever fully related to them.
1st re-read (listen). It's still as good today as it was 10 years ago.
Esta segunda entrega (o primera, depende el punto de vista) de la serie Cazadores Oscuros pierde intensidad en lo romántico respecto de su antecesora, no así en el erotismo de la historia. Donde gana con creces es en la creación de un enorme entorno mítico y sobrenatural que rodea la existencia de estos antihéroes inmortales. Se nota un trabajo más sólido por parte de la autora, sin que por ello deje de ser una novela que se devora muy rápidamente. Entretenidísima, igual que la anterior.
I have high hopes for this series! so far I like all the characters and want to know more about them especially Acheron! ;)
4 STARS  Ya tengo una nueva adicción GRACIAS VIRI por tu recomendaciónEste segundo libro o primero whatever de la serie Dark Hunters y ahora si conocemos bien este mundo e igual me gustó mucho como el anterior y es que me pareció muy interesante esta mezcla de vampiros con mitología griega.No hubo un romance tan tierno y lindo como el anterior pero si más acción y eso lo compensa, Kirian es un gran personaje y me encantó que haya sobrevivido es muy sarcástico y tiene un humor negro que diviert

İlk kitaptan kat kat iyiydi. Serinin diğer kitaplarını acayip merak ediyorum 😍
Finally the Dark-Hunter universe is explained :) I think this was supposed to be the first D-H because this is where they first appear.I liked this book very much, although the storyline was quite predictable (and when I say quite I mean totally XD), and the ending a liiiittle to mushy for me, but the main character was awsome, so he gets the 4 stars <3 Kyrian is a Dark-Hunter, a vampire who hunts other vampires.
Oooh Kindle, what trash you make me read. I'd read about this series for a long time and was too red-faced to buy the six pack cover at Borders. Well, this ended up on my Kindle and...I enjoyed it! I'm totally vampired out, but the world was kinda interesting, I've lived in New Orleans, and there are so many fans of the series. Nice romance, pretty interesting characters, I didn't regret reading. Now the later ones....
What made me take so long in reading this. I loved it from beginning to end. No further comments except the narration was stellar.
