https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/389459.Lawrence_of_Arabia
I've read very many books on Lawrence, as well as everything by him, including his letters.
Recent books, notably those by Scott Anderson and Anthony Sattin, have provided valuable new insights.
This book,although written 80 years ago, is very special in its own right.
Not only does it provide a very thorough review of Lawrence's campaigns - and by one of the most famous of war historians that is not to be sneezed at - but the author was clearly a very good friend of Lawrence.
Such insights are to be treasured.
A must read for anyone who wants to know more about the "real T.E."
The first "serious biography" of TEL. One must be interested in military tactics to enjoy this book. BLH analyzes Lawrence's tactical achievements in considerable detail, comparing him to theoreticians like Saxe and Foch and commanders like Napoleon and Marlborough. BLH certainly has authority to draw such comparisons, and his comments on Lawrence's asymmetrical casualty ratios and allocation are hard to refute. On the other hand, his near-uncritical acceptance of Lawrence's accounts and claims that Lawrence was a visionary philosopher amount to something like a hagiography.
I THINK this is the book I read, though not in this edition. If it is the one I read, it has a photo insert, and it may have been the basis of at least one movie.I've tried reading TE Lawrence's own readings, and found him arrogant and misogynistic, as well as more than a little racist. But it's an interesting story, and reading it from the perspective of a skilled biographer (as I know Hart is) gives insight into a part of history that's too often underreported.
Un militar entrañable, aventura en cada viaje en el desierto, algunos capítulos extraordinarios en este libro esperan a ser abordados por el lector para viajar y respirar un aire sofocante y contaminar tu visión con arena y sol.Este libro es una odisea en los desiertos y las geografías más letales para el ser humano, tendrás la oportunidad de conocer otro punto de vista de lo que sucedía en otro campo de batalla en la primera guerra mundial.
I never saw the Lean film all the way through and decided it was time I learn a bit more about this guy, plus some history of the Middle East in that period. Found this book was in a library book sale. It did the trick and I think it gave a fairly rounded view of the man and the history of the time. Can't say it was a great read, but worthwhile.
An interesting combination biography and military strategy analysis. At times though it feels like he relies too heavily on Seven Pillars without adding much of his own insight. The best parts are where he shows how Lawrence's theories were built off of previous generals and examines Lawrence's place in history among them. Quotes from his letters and conversations with Lawrence add a nice touch.
this is a book that needs be read.RJH
Very interesting as it was written during Lawrence's lifetime.
What he did was awesome overall, but there were some narcissistic tendencies that made me want to get a "golden'" bullet ;)
