https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2819164-the-early-life-and-adventures-of-sylvia-scarlett
It is a sort of West London version of the Bloomsbury group, except that for politics you should substitute religion; and for theatre, music hall.Considered extremely daring at the time of publication (1918 for “THE EARLY LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF SYLVIA SCARLETT”, to give its full title) this saga can sensibly be compared with contemporary works by James Joyce and D.H. Lawrence.
At the same time, we are asked to believe her relationship with Carlos Morera is platonic and that he showers her with valuable presents (setting her up for several years to come) for the mere pleasure of escorting her round town.Mackenzie does not subject Sylvia to the thorns of her many rose beds.
I liked Sylvia. I liked her independence and her self-knowledge. I can't quite buy how intellectually she expressed herself in her second language and without any seeming education, but then, this is a novel. The end is excellent.
Rimarrà costretta nei vestiti di un ragazzo finché questi non cominceranno a starle e stretti (nel vero senso della parola) e a diventare troppo logori.Riprenderà le sue fattezze e a tredici anni si imbarcherà insieme a suo padre, all'amante di lui, ed al solito mascalzone al seguito di piccoli spettacoli di varietà, che altro non servono a coprire imbrogli e truffe, recuperando in status e denaro fino a che Sylvia non diventerà una vera attrice.Sylvia avrà un solo amore nella sua vita, anche se si sposerà una volta molto giovane a 17 anni con Philip Irendale, ma capirà subito che quella vita, la vita che le vuole costruire addosso Philip non è la sua e un giorno se ne andrà di casa per non tornarne mai più.
I liked this novel very well. A spunky heroine from birth to thirty. It's part of a series of novels of which Sinister Street was the first. I disliked that one so much that I couldn't finish it; but the insipid Oxford U. protagonist of that, figures in the rest, so I may have to go back and read the second half of it now, since I really like Sylvia!
Sylvia Scarlett, born towards the end of the nineteenth century in France to an English father and a French mother, is a liberated woman long before the nineteen-seventies made the idea fashionable.
Even more important, he shows as no other writer I have come across as the red tape that suddenly entangled the world out of nowhere in 1914-18 and and has only become ever more cumbersome with every new crisis; passports (unknown in Western Europe prior to 1914) etc.
I probably would not have picked up this book without Project Gutenberg, and without the fact that no one seems to have read it.
This was one of those books that I came back to read while waiting for more exciting library holds to arrive.
The book was interesting enough to keep me trucking until the end, but I'm left with a feeling of "meh." The narrative in the book felt way too long, and just when something finally happens, the book ends - literally.
The 1930s movie, which was based on this book (and only a very small part of the story, at that), was one of the most famously unsuccessful movies of the era.
Compton Mackenzie is such a varied author that from one book to the next I don't know what I am going to get.
It has taken quite a chunk of the book for me to finally feel invested in the main character--Sylvia Scarlett.
This book unlike his Monarch of the Glen, etc.
I've been reading for 6 months and other books come and go, but this one is steady on.
It is a good read, but not as gripping.
It is like she has become a friend who every few days I want to visit and see what she is up to next.
I read the 580 page trilogy. It is interesting, beautifully written and would make a great TV series (Downton Abbey style). Sylvia is a great heroine. But, it was enormously long.
Read this book for free through Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/39527/...
