https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124524.Joni
What an inspiring book!!! Joni is a person who refused to let circumstances defeat her. Her faith, her perseverance, her sheer determination brought about an amazing triumph of human spirit.
Having spoken at length with my client about these sorts of things, I can confidently say that these details are important to relate to people so they can better understand spinal cord injury and have some of the mystery, confusion, and discomfort taken away from the issue.
There wasn't much in this book that someone dealing with spinal cord injury or another hardship would find of use if they weren't already a Christian or else incredibly open to and welcoming of the Christian message.
You will not be disappointed from reading her autobiography.
I also anguished when I read about her pain, suffering, and depression.
I was so happy for her when she turned back to God and realized his will for her life.
Instead of escaping, she talked about how she learned to adapt to being a quadriplegic and still living a full life.
Her life is indeed a testimony to the saving grace and power of Jesus.
Favorite Quote: "What I'm saying is that it doesn't matter because we leave the choice and decision with Him. We trust His judgment that 'all things work together for our good' if we love God." (P.
Powerful testament to the truth that even when we don't care about God, are mad at God, are bitter at God, or are running from God, He graciously makes himself known in our lives anyway. I am amazed that Ms. Eareckson Tada was able to surrender to God in such a way as to praise Him each morning though her heart cries out, "I can't 'do' quadriplegia anymore"! She really does "give thanks in all circumstances" (1 Thessalonians 5:18).
What a blessing this book was as I read it with my 3 children. It lead to many fruitful discussions, and helped them see how God can work in the life of a young person like them (not just "old" people like me).
I've read this book years ago...Someone gave it to me, and her story still inspire me until today.... "God is good, all the time."
This book is a beautiful blessing, this story is remarkable.
Joni has touched millions of people and continues to do so.
I watched her documentary long time ago, and when i saw her book i grabbed it, and will buy my personal copy as it opens up to pain, suffering, grace, hope, love, courage, support, resentment, gifts, blessings, relationships...Anyone should read this book, it really touched my heart, I will re-read it again and again because the heart-warming lessons Joni gives you, opens up your eyes and heart to the most simple and clear message: God does not give up on you.
I read this when I was junior high. It was very inspirational. Many of my friends were reading it at that time. At one point, I acquired a few back issues of Western Horseman from the 1960's and in one of them I discovered a letter from Joni in the pen-pal section of the magazine, written before her paralysis. I still have that magazine.
This is a wonderful book that shows faith and God's amazing plan for our lives. I rate this book five stars because it shows that we are small but he is BIG!
One of the most God-glorifying autobiographies I have read.
Read this as a teen. I think it was instrumental in making me believe I could do anything...I had no excuses. It also made me more grateful for the things I had. Wonderful book!
This is a very good book that guides us to blindly believe and trust in the Lord...The story confirms the truth that "all things work together for good to them that love God".
Loved hearing Joni herself narrate this.
From dreams of college and independence, she is entirely dependent on the hospital staff, and unsure whether she will survive.The rest of the book charts her progress, including two operations, and a great deal of pain.
The emotional pain is even worse; she feels useless, deeply depressed, and determined not to survive.
Perhaps it’s more valuable to those who are not already aware of these principles, and yet my suspicion is that many would find them offputting, and would have preferred a bit more subtlety.With that proviso, I found this book (on my third reading in thirty years) well-written and well-paced, and enjoyed it very much.
Great, inspiring story
I recommend it to any age but I think young people would find the book intriguing & help them in seeing just how each of our lives contain choices and consequences to those choices according to how we decide on what may or may not occur in a world filled with the unknown.
This also being a True Story made it more so a good read.I recommend all of Joni's books not for ones with these issues she has faced , but for anyone wanting to be inspired by the human spirit & just what can happen when faced with "Life".
This honest account of a few years following her accident was very informative, and it created a desire in me to read her other book knowing that she did eventually marry.
1. We are all in danger of being caught in what she called the treadmill of life--eating, breathing, and sleeping, but many of us don't realize we're not living on purpose.
Joni went throught a time where she was questioning God's existence.
During that time she read the works of atheist authors, and it added to her hopelessness and depression.
We need to be careful because what we take in does affect our outlook on life.
This is one of the first Christian biographies I read. It was very inspirational. Her story was very challenging and uplifting at the same time.
A great inspirational and uplifting read.
Read this ages ago when I first became a Christian. It is an amazing story of an amazing walk of faith!
On July 30, 1967, Joni dove into Chesapeake Bay after misjudging the shallowness of the water.
When she writes about at times turning away from but ultimately turning to God, I’m ready to listen because this isn’t just another feel-good conversion story.As great of testimony as Joni has, I’d be remiss if I don’t point out that the well-crafted writing style is key to my repeat enjoyment.
The Good: Growing up both in a Christian home and with a handicapped sibling, I had heard the story of Joni Eareckson Tada over the years, but, to actually read what she went through and how she triumphed over dire circumstances was rather powerful.
Instead of a whitewashed account of her Christian faith, it shows how she struggled with doubt, but learned the truth about God and His love.
The powerfulness of the story pretty much undoes any of those negative aspects, but, they're still there.Conclusion: Despite the negative aspects, every Christian should read this story; it's an excellent account of faithfulness and triumph over serious adversity.
Those in favour of Euthanasia should read this woman’s testimony. Such a better message than the book Me Before You presents.The writing of this book finished in 1975. If it were written today, Eareckson would include a message to those considering Euthanasia as a way out of their suffering. So many people are bent on avoiding pain at any cost, and real memoirs like this book and Paul Kalanithi’s book, When Breath Becomes Air, are what our society needs.
A woman who suffers a terrible accident which renders her a quadriplegic realizes that "God engineered [her] circumstances. He used them to prove Himself as well as [her] loyalty... [that her] injury was not a tragedy but a gift God was using to help [her] conform to the image of Christ, something that would mean [her] ultimate satisfaction, happiness--even joy.
As my first biography, I really enjoyed this book. A true testament to what God can do in ones life when we are willing to give him full control. Joni's story really is really encouraging in how she dealt with the loss of the use of her basic motor skills and how she learned to fully depend on God.
A well written telling of a beautiful life
StrugglesThis book covers the author's struggles both physically and spiritually after a diving accident leaves her a quadriplegic.I've read this before in it's physical form but this edition adds an updated afterword and a list of resources for the disabled.
In her autobiography, Joni Eareckson tells us how, in the face of darkness, she trusted God to get her through the toughest time in her life.Joni Eareckson was a normal seventeen-year-old.
She would never be able to walk or use her hands again.
She demanded and pleaded with Him to heal her quadriplegia.By sharing her life story as a quadriplegic, Joni takes you on her journey to mental, physical and spiritual recovery.
My mother had given it to me 38 years ago, and I read it then, but I decided to read it again because I know people who have disabilities, and who have found Christ as their salvation, and I wanted to understand how they used their faith to overcome the mental and physical torment they suffered.Joni suffered a diving accident when aged 17.
I read this book to help me understand how somebody with profound physical disabilities used Christ as a prop to overcome depression and suffering.
Joni Eareckson's candid, transparent recounting of her recovery from a nearly life-threatening diving accident provides encouragement, comfort and motivation for all who read Joni.
This is the first edition of Eareckson's autobiography; but several newer editions are available, I believe.While in her mid-twenties, Joni shared in this book the struggles of learning to not only accept life as a quadriplegic but also to embrace and thank God for it.
She was only 17 when she broke her neck after diving in shallow water; her life was turned upside down as she faced a completely dependent future.
108)I read this book a long time ago and am so glad I picked it up again.
