https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34496.The_Unadulterated_Cat
It is a commonly known fact among those that travel to the Disc that Death likes cats.Honestly, the quickest way to get Death angry is to be mean to a cat.Somehow this doesn't make losing a beloved cat any eaiser, but reading this book sure did make me laugh (and made me feel a little better.
He is real cat who mostly likely is also Satan.But I agree completely with Pratchett.
Any cat owner who reads this book will be laughing while shouting, YES, YES EXACTLY.If you own a frou-frou cat you will be greatly confused.
This one is for cat lovers, in particular lovers of Real Cats aka moggies and not pampered pedigreed cats. Pratchett is a well known lover of cats. His most famous cat Discworld Greebo, Nanny Ogg's familiar is very definitely a Real Cat. And of course all readers of Discworld knows that DEATH loves cats and is always kind to them.In this little book Pratchett explains the features of Real Cats and his theory that most cats are Schrodinger Cats. Gently humorous, without being side splitting it will give you a few smiles if you are a cat owner.
Like Douglas Adams or Monty Python, Terry Pratchett is, alas, a representative of the kind of British humor I just don’t get.
For Pratchett, a “Real” cat is a non-pampered, tough outdoor creature that hunts and generally does its own thing but also knows how to wrap its human servants around its paws.
It’s the purr that makes up for the Things Under the Bed, the occasional pungency, the 4 a.m. yowl.(See also my blog post on Five Books about Cats.)
This book makes hilarious fun of the way we let cats treat us but also makes the important distinction between REAL cats and those whiny-ass pretty things that people groom for TV ads.I am a cat lover.
Currently, the only cat in the family is my grandmother's and let me tell you: she's the perfect example of what a NOT-REAL cat looks like and behaves.
Suffice it to say, I take pity on the poor thing.Terry Pratchett, in his distinct funny way, tells us what REAL cats ought to be like: not very pretty, but very independent, sadistically playing with their humans, smart and unique.
Il nostro giardino era un territorio conteso tra cinque gatti locali, e avevamo sentito dire che il modo migliore di tenere lontani i gatti dal giardino era prenderne uno.E' sufficiente un minuto di riflessione razionale per individuare la leggera falla in questo ragionamento.
Tuttavia, se si è predisposti a tenere un gatto, il pensiero razionale c'entra ben poco.
Le fusa dovevano essere un paio di scarpe di cemento nella grande corsa dell'evoluzione; invece hanno fatto sì che ai gatti andasse meglio di quanto molti altri animali potessero aspettarsi...
My response was the same as Pratchett's: why try to breed a working animal out of an animal that already knows how to delegate any work to humans?They say the Egyptians hunted with cats and point to pyramid frescoes as proof.
They apparently have never heard of wishful thinking--nor looked at some of the frescoes in Renaissance churches.
Do they really think Heaven looks like that?Another minor criticism is that the Campaign for Real Cats sounds suspiciously like Douglas Adams' Campaign for Real Time.
I'm one of those crazy cat people..given the opportunity I will speak at some length about my cats (probably more so than about my children!) - their quirks and funny ways, how silky their paws are yet still smell strangely of feet..I could go on.
Have marked it down one point however in protest at the suggestion that people should leave their cats behind when they move home - some things you just can't joke about :)
Pure fun for cat lovers and one goat joke to boot!
Ideal toilet reading material in which Terry Practchett takes a look at cats. Not your pampered, silky lap cat but notch-eared, smelly, food thieving real cats.I personally have two cats but don't think they really fit either category. One weirdo likes to cry at lampshades and do parkour off our walls, while the other is a greedy stealer of children's toys who loves nothing more than games of fetch and jumping at light switches at 4 in the morning. They are clearly not real cats,
I'm more a dog-person than a cat-person, and I never had a cat in my life. My husband grew up among cats though, and with his stories in mind I read this short book. It was funny, wonderful and catly!
Hum! I admit that I enjoy very much Terry Pratchett's Discworld books as well as "Good Omens" but this "Unadulterated Cat" is somewhat a minor work.As some of you already said, I also have a cat and it is somewhat funny to see some "truths" here and there in the text.Honestly, I was expecting a funnier book. Ok, it's a short book, it has some funny excerpts (I enjoy very much the beginning of the book as weel as "the Schrödinger Cats", "the Cat in History" and "Hygiene" chapters) but that's it. It's just a book for the moment.
Тази книга ми беше любов от пръв поглед... и казва цялата Истина! xD
Real cats do eat quiche.And giblets.And butter.And anything else left on the table.They can hear a fridge door opening two rooms away.Having had read Terry Pratchett’s Maurice and His Educated Rodents, I stupidly half-expected the book will tell somewhat a fantastic story of Maurice.
His specific referent to cats can be found in the discworld series in the shape of Greebo, Nanny Ogg’s infamous ‘kitten’ who often saved the day without having the slightest heroic intentions.
And, well, naturally, in the book Maurice and his Educated Rodents, which takes place in the discworld universe as well but is not specifically included in the series.

The Unadulterated Cat - Terry Pratchett,Gray Jolliffe As a birthday present to myself I purchased a number of books.
I only bought funny ones, because I'm rarely in the mood to go back and read a grim one.
This has been on my list for quite a while, and now I have it.
And I love it because it is silly, and you can read it in about fifteen minutes, and the pictures are funny, and the default conversational topic in our house is the cats: there are four, so at any given moment someone is doing something worth commenting on.This year my birthday was particularly happy.personal copy
Zabavne citanie, obzvlast v prvej polovici knihy. Potom to uz trochu straca dych a kapitolka o mackach, ktore by nahradili psov, nie je ani obzvlast vtipna, ani nevyhnutna. Prijemne citanie na cestu, len tak so sebou na kavu, nenarocne a oddychove, odporucam aj zarytym milovnikom psov so zmyslom pre humor.
I liked it, it was a quick fun distraction...not the Pratchett wit I’ve come to expect necessarily, but definitely fun for a cat owner.
Последващите 8-9 години бяха изпълнени с какви ли не простотии за мен, така че бях позабравил колко гениален е Пратчет във всяко едно отношение, дори когато не пише за Света на Диска.
Снощи обаче реших да си я припомня, заседнах през нощта в кухнята и я "ударих" на един дъх.Да, всички мои приятели (и дори голяма част от неприятелите ми, като ДР и Осеменяващата се) знаят много добре, че обожавам котки.
И че не сте я: гушкали, чесали зад ушите, вслушвали в мъркането й и търчали посред нощ да я шамарите, защото се е разгонила и е ревала като параходна сирена.Един кратък цитат, който обяснява всичко:Истинските котки оцеляват.
Although I didn't find this book to be laugh-out-loud funny, I chuckled to myself quite a few times and smiled knowingly because so much about cats was absolutely right in this book. I don't think people who've never owned or been around cats before would really enjoy this one.
Wanna know what a REAL cat is made of? This book does a perfect job explaining what a cat owner experiences in his/her daily life. Terry Pratchett is hilarious!It is a quick fun read, this book cheered me up through the cold and dark winter. Every proud cat owner will enjoy it.
Sir Terry pours his experience with Real Cats into this silly book in his usual whimsical style, illustrated by Gray Joyliffe in a fitting fuzzy manner. Now we know where Death’s love for cats come from...
I think the short length works in favor of the book, making it funnier.2.
We love ours and thankfully, I now know that she is a Real cat.All the weird cattish things that she does are mentioned in this book.
It all makes sense now.Like why was Bast called Bast.Why Arch-villain's cats can't be real:I mean, look at them!However, now I kind of feel like the cartoon fish who has seen everything:5.
If you are in doubt of the Realness of your feline, this book is for you too!
I do like a good Discworld book so was interested to see what a non discworld book was like and as an owner of three cats thought this might hit the spot.I have to say this did have me smiling to myself as I read it.
Also, the only cat that can brush up against the front and the back of your legs at the same time.A light entertaining read that I will have to have another look at sometime.
Kind of an odd book until you really think about it. Terry Pratchett is a master of humour but this book lacks it, somewhat. Maybe not actual humour itself, but the amount of it you find elsewhere.I dislike cats though not enough to do anything about it but even I can see their wonderful attributes as described here. I think you'd need to love cats or Terry Pratchett to really understand this book. It is all founded on truth which means it's all a pack of lies, though funny.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
This funny little book has been a welcome respite from the string of somber hefty tome's I've had to read recently, so I did enjoy reading it.
But...I feel that overall the book is not as good as it could be.
There are two places in particular where Pratchett's writing comes off as unpolished.
"The Locked Gerbil Mystery" could very well be just a draft version, with shorthand/clipped sentences that make the segment read like a telegram.
And "The cats we missed" is another weak (ie, not so funny) segment which shouldn't have been placed at the strategic end of the book.
The Schrodinger cats section is certainly the best bit.
Well, I'm happy to say I'm a proud pinky blob owner of a Real Cat. I exist only to feed and clean up after her, which is just fine on both parts. I'm a big fan of Terry Pratchett, and really the only thing that would have made this short read better was if I had "gotten" all the British humor in it. Alas, I'm from New Jersey, so some was lost on me. Still recommended for any cat lover though.
Аве, Котко, богиньо! Вместо ревю бих искал да ви постна цялата книга тук. Сериозно, по Пратчетовски, “Автентичната котка” е една от най-яките книги на Великия Смехотворец, ако и да е позиционирана вън от Света на Диска и да разглежда един-единствен животински вид и по-точно двете му основни разновидности – Автентичните (Истински) котки и срещуположните опитомени такива.http://knigolandia.info/book-review/a...
Niente, due passioni, quella per i gatti e quella per Pratchett, che si uniscono in un libro.Se avete un gatto non adulterato, un gatto Vero insomma, non potete, non potete proprio NON leggere questo libro. Ho iniziato per vedere com'era prima di comprare il cartaceo per mia moglie e non sono riuscito a smettere fino alla fine. Il solito umorismo di Terry unito a una conoscenza di prima mano del mondo gattesco, uguale grande divertimento.
It's a very very cute and funny book on cats and interaction with their human slaves. I put this book on my mental list of gift ideas for cat people. It is just perfect, not too long, light reading, amusing and I am sure that every cat owner will recognize a lot of the situations or behaviour patterns described by Pratchett.
I laughed so hard while reading this, and I don't even have a cat (I've got plenty of friends who are owned by their cats, though.)
