https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153590.Playback
Chandler died the following year; Playback is his last completed novel.
Through intermediaries, an anonymous client hires Marlowe to find Betty Mayfield, who is traveling under the name Eleanor King.
...تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز پانزدهم ماه نوامبر سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: حق السکوت؛ نویسنده: ریموند چندلر؛ مترجم: احسان نوروزی؛ تهران، مروارید، 1385، در 220 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1386؛ شابک: 9789648838381؛ موضوع: داستانهای پلیسی از نویسندگان امریکایی - ماجراهای فلیپ مارلو - کتاب 7 - سده 20 مرمان حق السکوت نوشته ریموند چندلر، آخرین رمان این پلیسی نویس بزرگ امریکایی است.
رمان حق السکوت ماجرای جذاب و پرهیجانی ست که باز هم کارآگاه پرآوازه چندلر یعنی فلیپ مارلو در مرکز آن قرار دارد.
It was only 10 in the morning but she had legs to look at.
Her legs looked at me but I never found out what they thought.
She offered me a cigarette.
She offered me a drink.
Her legs looked at me.
Her legs looked at me.
Her legs looked at me.
She said, “You’re speeding, Marlowe, this is a residential zone and there’s a school somewhere round here.” Then she was naked and I poured all over her like moonlight.
I took a right then another right.
But at least I could look at her legs without interruption.
The waiter watched me put down the empty glass.
They didn’t look like any legs I had seen before.
Her lips glistened the whole time.
She returned the bag to the chair beside her, empty-handed.
I had given up smoking since my last novel, only I hadn’t told my author.
But first she had another request:“Stop looking at my legs.” I did as I was told.
She returned her cigarette to the pack and put it back in her bag.
I looked into her eyes.
I moved closer to her, and had another look.
I guess my second or third reading. What makes Raymond Chandler so special for me is that nothing really happens,so I’m more deeply into narrative and characters,feel enchanted and read it again.This is a story of a certain mysterious woman and Marlowe with memorable wisecrack and a few corpses.Just a simple story.
The job is so easy Marlowe begins to wonder who the woman is and why the tailing was necessary at all.
If you do not want huge spoilers, do not read the book's blurb as it gives away the only mystery element present.The only redeeming quality of the book is its length: it is the shortest novel of the series.
I wonder what would happen to the plot if his assignment was to put a tail on an ugly guy instead of a gorgeous woman.This is not a good end of the series and this is by far the worst Marlowe novel.
Clocking in at a malnourished 166 pages (that’s two hundred pages less than the prosperously gutted masterpiece, The Long Goodbye) Playback is anything but the last, great Marlowe novel, and neither is it really a worthy swan song.
The last Marlowe novel.
I am going to give this night my best Marlowe impression.
I’m going to start the evening off slow with some steady drinking until restlessness gets the better of me.
I’ll grab myself a stool in some shadowed corner and order that first drink, and then the next.
If you see me there, hell, I’ll buy you a drink.
"I'm old, tired, and full of no coffee."Ever reluctant at the outset, Philip Marlowe takes another case.
Curiosity takes over once in and he hammers the nail.
Hammer the hook sideways until the head's a setting sun in the plank?
Straighten it in a vice like it's the last nail, like it's the last bent, dried out cigarette and you're lying there in bed in the morning choking for a smoke.Hammer a fresh hole.
They know what he wants.
He doesn't want your money if he hasn't earned it.When the solution comes, he's got time for you, baby.
“Wherever I went, whatever I did, this was what I would come back to. A blank wall in a meaningless room in a meaningless house.” Philip Marlowe is tasked with tailing a young, rich and beautiful woman. The catch? He has no idea why and neither does the shady lawyer who hired him.That is about as short a summary as I’ve ever written, and I suppose that fits given this is the shortest of the Marlowe novels. I’ve heard from Chandler fans and through various reviews that although this was Chandler
Because of this, I’m not sure if I had lower than normal expectations going in but when it was all said and done and all the dust had settled, I was left with a feeling of satisfaction.While the plot in Playback might be the most straightforward of all the Marlowe tales, the strength of Chandler’s writing is front and center with such memorable lines as:
I can’t get enough of Chandler’s writing; it’s so sharp and succinct.There are three non-Chandler Marlowe novels that follow Playback and while I'm cautiously optimistic, I have a feeling they won’t be able to recreate Chandler’s excellent prose.
'Playback', Chandler's final completed novel and the follow-up to 'The Long Goodbye', is a novel that has managed to haunt me since I read it three years ago.
There are few mean streets for Marlowe to walk down, no femme fatales for him to resist; there's remarkably little corruption in Esmeralda, and Marlowe ends up almost being a footnote for his total contribution to the mystery's resolution.But I don't think that's necessarily a fault of the novel.
Chandler was giving Marlowe a final, emotional, humane resolution.
'I've got friends who could cut you down so small you'd need a step-ladder to put your shoes on.''Somebody did a lot of hard work on that one,'I said.
'But hard work's no substitute for talent.'The story is a contorted and confused one.
In The Big Sleep I encountered a brash heavy, a slick talking cynic,; in this one I met a man who I actually genuinely found I was rooting for.I wolfed it down.
Hard-bitten private detective or not, in the last few chapters of the book Chandler lets us see this man's soul and his yearning.
در ضمن در این ترجمه آخر جمله ی اول هم مشکل داره نویسنده می گه خانم وست شاید ترجیح داده پول رو به [برندون] بده تا اون خودش قبض هتل رو پرداخت کنه - یعنی اصلا حرفی از میچل نیستو نمونه ی آخر این جملهUnless out of the long years and the long tensions, and in the present case, the abrupt certainty that what bullfighters call “the moment of truth” is hereکه ترجمه شدهتا اینکه بعد از سال ها، و در مورد پرونده ی فعلی بعد از کشمکش های فراوان، که باعث فروریختن قطعیت می شود، بالاخره زمانی فرا می رسد که گاوبازها "لحظه ی حقیقت" می نامندشنکته ی اول اینکه ترجمه ی "تا اینکه" درست نیست بلکه باید گفت "مگر اینکه".
Not my favorite Chandler.
Actually, my least favorite Chandler novel.
Maybe part of my problem with it was Chandler just seemed tired of L.A. and tired of Marlowe.
He exports Marlowe into a new town (Esmerelda, aka La Jolla) but it all just doesn't work.
I ended up not caring much about Marlowe or the dame or the book.
Which is sad because I read most of this damn book sitting in a San Diego hotel's basement laundry.
Alas, no.Anyway, if you are new to Chandler end here, don't start here.
Well, that's me done with the Philip Marlowe books (I don't have any interest in reading the last one that was finished by a different author) and I had a really great time reading them.Before reading these, my ideas of hardboiled detective noir came almost entirely from film.
Let's just say that now I've read the original blueprints I appreciate the genre all the more.This book is so short compared to the previous book, The Long Goodbye, it felt more like a short story or an epilogue to the series.
That's not to say it isn't any good; I enjoyed it at least as much as the other books in the series I gave four stars.
Cracking good stuff!
کتاب رو نیمهتمام رها کردم و نتونستم دیگه ادامش بدم.
ترجمه خیلی بد بود جوری که تقریبا هیچی از کتاب سر در نمیآوردم.
جملات به هم ریخته، نا مربوط.
انتظار میکشیدم که هر لحظه به جای بخش توضیحات وارد بخش مکالمات بشم که شاید یه چیزی دستگیرم بشه، اما اونجا هم اونقدر محو و بد بود که اعصابم رو خرد کرد.
قبلا «خداحافظی طولانی» رو از چندلر خونده بودم که اونم گرچه ترجمه فوقالعادهای نداشت، اما روی هم رفته قابل تحمل بود.
این بار با خودم فکر کردم شاید مشکل از نثر چندلر باشه.
یه کم توی اینترنت چرخ زدم و بعد خوندن
کتاب رو نیمه‌تمام رها کردم و نتونستم دیگه ادامش بدم.
انتظار می‌کشیدم که هر لحظه به جای بخش توضیحات وارد بخش مکالمات بشم که شاید یه چیزی دستگیرم بشه، اما اونجا هم اونقدر محو و بد بود که اعصابم رو خرد کرد.
چون کاراگاه مارلو شخصیت نسبتا سیاهی داره که خیلی از کارهاش و حتی دیالوگاش توی ترجمه‌ها سانسور میشه و این سانسورها اونقدر واضحه که توی ذوق میزنه.هیچ امتیازی به کتاب نمیدم، چون که نه تمومش کردم و نه درست حسابی چیزی دستگیرم شد ازش.
Oh man, I've got a problem, this is the second Chandler in a row where I've been quite bored by the end.What starts off as pure Marlowe gold in his meeting with Ms Vermilyea manages to become dull, rushed and predictable by halfway. Sure the dialogue is great but everything else somehow falls flat in the convoluted mess of a plot.I'm so disappointed and exhausted from reading these 150 pages that I can't even fully form my thoughts in to interesting paragraphs.
Philip Marlowe, the most influential of the early fictional private eyes, is hired to tail a good-looking redhead who seems to be on the lam.
And then there's a local big roller named Clark Brandon, who hails from somewhat murky and possibly criminal beginnings in KC.Marlowe dutifully and skillfully follows along, though it is possible that he may be a decoy, and meant to distract the young woman from her other tails.
Why did she lay Marlowe out with a whiskey bottle while he was tussling with her blackmailer?
Even so, Marlowe is always good, cyncical company, and the quality of the writing is top notch.
Hey, it's Chandler, so he gets 5 stars, even if it's probably not the best of PI Marlowe. But we get to see different shades of him. Plus the writing has the usual fire power. Interesting minor characters give voice to Chandler's world view late in his life. Sad, poignant, and accessible. Loved it. Plan to read/re-read more titles soon.
When a woman is a really good driver she is just about perfect.The town from The Right Stuff?"He’s dead now—plane crash—he was a jet pilot.
I know a place between here and San Diego that is full of girls who were married to jet pilots when they were alive.”The Happy Bottom Riding Club was a dude ranch, restaurant, and hotel operated by aviator Pancho Barnes near Edwards Air Force Base in the Antelope Valley of California's Mojave Desert.
Barnes and the club were both featured in Tom Wolfe's 1979 book, The Right Stuff, and the 1983 film adaptation.
روايت و زبان كتاب جذاب است. داستان فصل فصل است و من اين شيوه ي نوشتن را خيلي دوست دارم.شايد تا نيمه ي كتاب همچنان درگير اين بودم كه چه شده و كه راست ميگويد و اصل ماجرا چيست اما كم كم ماجرا باز مي شود و حتي خنده ام گرفت از كل اتفاقاتي كه من اصلا فكرش را هم نكرده بودم.پايانش خوب بود و جمله هاي به يادماندني هم كم نداشت. ترجمه ي آقاي نوروزي هم روان و قابل توجه است.
There is something very satisfying the it comes to reading a Philip Marlowe story.
The private eye never makes much money, seems to struggle along and often, gets beat up.
But in the end, he solves the mystery.
He solves the mystery of the woman with more than one name, a past he can't get a hang on but that he is paid to track down … that seems to have a whole host of men following her.
There isn't much to dig into, but that has never stopped Marlowe and it doesn't in this case.
This is great reading and it was a lot of fun.
What a lot of people each one of us can be."Common sense always speaks too late." A book like this couldn't exist without late-arriving common sense."If you had any brains.""And if you had any manners and were six inches taller and had a different face and another name ad didn't act as if you thought you could lick your weight in frog spawn."Chandler excels in the putdown.An old man in a hotel lobby: "I shall go on being useless and inquisitive.""A man who lives on women always blackmails them." Oops, I gave some of the plot away."Talking gives me an opportunity to study people without seeming altogether rude." Another gem from the old man in the hotel."How can such a hard man be so gentle?" "If I wasn't hard, I wouldn't be alive.
He overhears sleazy Larry Mitchell blackmail the dusky-red-wavy-haired beauty as Betty Mayfield, but no explanation why.
Besides Marlowe, Betty attracts new suitor, handsome rich Clark Brandon, polite owner of hotel, restaurant, much of the small resort town.
Out-of-towner solves Betty's identity, but Marlowe has to guess where other troubles came from.
Chandler seems to think Marlowe is a hero if he refuses money from everyone.
Spoilers:Marlowe saves Goble mid-beating from hired gun red-head Richard Harvest (why happen in Marlowe's motel cottage?).
Since Goble and Brandon are both from Kansas, Marlowe links them.
Since Mitchell was a vile criminal, Marlowe just confronts Brandon for the truth, no arrest.


The book is not so much of an affront to the Marlowe legacy as it is a victim of expectation.
As a follow up to The Little Sister (one of the best mystery books) and The Long Goodbye (one of the best books period) everything about Playback seems like a regression.
So instead of begrudging a less than stellar but still sound entry to a series which never strayed far from greatness, I would like to remember Playback for still being than better than what most authors would write on their best days.
Дори да си ги отказал, не можеш да се въздържиш два пъти в годината за специален повод да им посегнеш.Чета и препрочитам историите за цапнатия в устата, а много често – и по главата, Фил, който няма равен в доблестта, остроумието и акъла, а изпод чаршафите му така и не помня да е изпълзявала недоволна дама.С „Плейбек“ Чандлър дарява читателя с още от същото, което никога не е достатъчно, особено като знаеш колко нищожно е литературното наследство на писателя и колко бързо се четат книгите му.
I've read three Chandlers so far (also The Lady In The Lake and The Big Sleep) and I have to say this was my favourite.
The plot, as such, is a little ramshackle and the *big secret* the main dame carries might not be something to shout about, but the prose seems darker than ever and there are slices of almost existential brilliance which left me breathless.
The only puzzle is that my edition has a cover shot of a parrot which appears briefly and inconsequently in the novel!A short, fast read that crackles relentlessly.
I've been working my way through the Philip Marlowe stories I managed to neglect. This is the last of the stories written by Chandler. It was written based on an unproduced screenplay from the early 1950's.This book is copyrighted in 1958 and story-wise set in 1953. It was published after the author's death. It is some distance in style from  Little Sister  (my review) the last Marlowe I read. That book was copyrighted in 1949. Prose is good. Dialog about the same in quality as the descriptive p
I've been working my way through the Philip Marlowe stories I managed to neglect.
It was written based on an unproduced screenplay from the early 1950's.This book is copyrighted in 1958 and story-wise set in 1953.
Characters are standard for a Chandler story, and have since become arch-types for the hard-boiled genre.
The story also ends peculiarly with Marlowe getting together with the Linda Loring character from The Long Goodbye.
However, I find the post-war setting of the story to be less interesting than the pre-war Marlowe stories I've read.
Readers interested in the later works by Chandler should checkout 
This is, I believe, Chandler's last book before he passed.HOOK=3: Marlowe is hired, in the open pages, to look out for a lovely lady.
This feels odd, given previous Marlowe outings.
I kept thinking Marlowe would stop and say, "Wait, no more action till I know what's going on,' but no, he keeps chasing, seemingly aimless.
He chases a beautiful red-head, then becomes involved with her and her personal cause.CHARACTERS=4: Marlowe seems tired and it's hard to believe he's about at the end of his rope.
This was Chandler’s final novel and though it’s not up to par with his best, it’s still Chandler, who I read not for the intricacies and nuances of the plot but for the way Chandler can tell a story like few others.
