https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/752801.The_Peyote_Dance
I went to a movie about Collette, an erotic author who 'studied' w/ Artaud.
A woman I knew was there, She sd something like "Who was that asshole?" - referring to Artaud in a scene where he drilled "The Theater of Cruelty" into Collette.
A guy who visited the Tarahumara Indians in Mexico in 1936 to participate in their Peyote rituals.
On the back of this bk it's called "Anthropology" - that's true enuf.
Like so much that I'm interested in, it's not so easy to say its one thing or another.
Artaud was alive, at his own risk.
Tanıdığım Antonin Artaud'dan farklıydı bu kitaptaki. Yine çok coşkulu ama farklı bi şekilde. Kitabının basılması için yayıncıyı ikna etmeye çalıştığı mektupları da yer alıyor kitapta, üzücü oldu benim için okumak.

Max (a fellow Goodreads) brought this book to my attention. I never had a copy and it's very difficult to find even via the Internet - but I read a library edition some years ago and it is a really remarkable travel journal. Artaud is one-of-a-kind-genius.
Artaud, one of the first surrealist writers, coming from the Dada movement, takes a journey to Mexico to experience first hand the rites of Ciguri.
The rites often use the cactus-based hallucinogen peyote.
I was disappointed that he didn't describe his experience with the peyote more, it was much more about the tribe and their beliefs surrounding the use of the cactus button.
Still a fun read for those interested in stepping outside the norm, and experiencing (third hand?) the rituals involved in these sacred rites.
His prose is among the best I've read from the surrealists (at least in translation) and I look forward to more of his works.Three day trip...
I had heard of Artaud and his theatre of cruelty, but had never read him, finding the surrealists, dadaists and their ilk not to my taste.
While staying with friends in Springfield, Vermont, I borrowed this book from their library, reading it on their front porch and at the local cafe.The book is only glancingly about the Mexican peyote cult and the people who practice it.
The book is more about Artaud and about what he experienced under the influence of the cactus taken up as grist for his mill.
I recall the first half of this book as highly thought provoking and lucid. It has a few slow bits but overall the information Artaud presents feels invaluable. Highly recommended if the topic interests you.
saçma sapan
