https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/277578.The_Reformed_Doctrine_of_Predestination
One of this work's great strengths was Boettner's precision in defining predestination and contrasting it with misconceived perceptions of the doctrine (such as fatalism) and of the outcomes of thought that spur from belief in the doctrine (such as it discourages all motives to exert effort).The book, covering actually much more than 'the reformed doctrine of predestination' is laid out in six parts:Part I - deals with the doctrine of predestination as a matter of fact understood from Scripture and argues that Scripture must indeed be the final authority.Part II - lays out the five points of Calvinism and discusses how they are intricately woven together so as one cannot reject one point without rejecting the entire system: "Furthermore, these are not isolated and independent doctrines but are so inter-related that they form a simple, harmonious, self-consistent system...Prove any one of them true and all the others will follow as logical and necessary parts of the system.
He uses the acronym, though modifies it somewhat into clearer terminology, that perhaps isn't quite so provocative.
The book is structured largely around TULIP, followed by rebuttals of common arguments by opponents.There is also a section showing the way Calvinism has transformed culture.
We've largely lost, or abandoned this position in our own day, but the history is there for us all to discover if we're open to the truth.The conclusion of the book is a mini biography of Calvin which has some helpful material, even for those that have read other such mini bios.
Boettner demolishes the Arminian position.
I much prefer a stated doctrine in the form of the Westminster Confession (or similar Church creed) so that the teaching may be examined in light of that confession and that confession examined in light of Holy Scripture.The language is 1932 era and can be difficult to understand at times.
I have read it two times and find new truth in each reading.This is not a full statement of the Reformed Doctrine but brings to light the major points of Reformed Doctrine that give glory to God and remove selfish and prideful humanism from the modern Christian.VERY HIGHLY RECOMMENDED along with the R.C. Sproul book "What is Reformed Theology?: Understanding the Basics"
After many years of online debate, as an Arminian against Calvinists, I was challenged to read this book. This is the book that convinced me of the veracity of the doctrines of grace found in what is commonly known as Calvinism.Boettner goes from passage to passage in the Bible to show how the doctrines of predestination are thoroughly Biblical.
Excellent. Also read in May of 1988.
I still remember Boettner's analogy for Total Depravity, "In a gang of pirates we may find many things that are good in themselves.
Though they are in wicked rebellion against the laws of the government, they have their own laws and regulations, which they obey strictly.
We find among them courage and fidelity, with many other things that will recommend them as pirates.
They may do many things, too, which the laws of the government require, but they are not done because the government has so required, but in obedience to their own regulations .
This is one of the best books that I have ever read! I have studied the doctrines of Calvinism and predestination for years and this book gave me a much clearer understanding of them. Mr. Boettner does an excellent job of gently guiding the reader through the process of understanding topics and passages that are potentially very confusing. I finished the book not only with a more complete understanding of these doctrines, but also a greater appreciation and love for God Himself.
"For Calvinism shows us God and traces His footsteps - God, in all His greatness, majesty, wisdom, holiness, justice, love. Calvinism shows us God high and lifted up; and our souls cry out again, 'What is man that THOU... art mindful of him?"
Books from an immature, embarassing time in my life. This book presents a case for Calvinism, which, ultimately, is one of the worst things to have ever existed. Stay away.
This book was instrumental in helping me on my pilgrimage going from believing in free will to embracing the doctrine of election.
Great lengthy introduction to the doctrines of grace including discussions of practical importance and Calvinism in history.
In essence, the big debate is between two camps (there are more, but I won’t bother to delve into these): the “Calvinist” camp, which believes that man is entirely evil and that he cannot, on his own, come to salvation but God must intervene.
In his book, he introduces the doctrine and then examines each “point” of Calvinism that is commonly known in the acronym, “TULIP”: Total depravity, Unconditional election, Limited atonement, Irresistible grace, and the Preservation of the saints.
Earlier this year, I wrote a review on the book “Proof” which is also about the reformed doctrine of grace.
Do not let this book's old fashioned preachy style stop you.
You will know about predestination when you finish this tome.
Basically, you can tell the elect by who has done better, the white race has done better than other races therefore the white race in among gods elect.
As the USA has prospered more than other white countries the US is at the top of God's angelic heap.
As to predestination the book is detailed perhaps too detailed for the casual reader (me!).
But I ploughed through it and I will never have to read another book on predestination again.
I came across this book quite by accident and have to admit that some parts are at first quite dry (I mean who would want to read a book about predestination?) nevertheless it drew me in and it is written in a clear style that unfolds the case for Calvinism.
Before reading this book I was completely unaware of why John Calvin could be called the virtual founder of America or that Jefferson probably borrowed from the Mecklenburg Declaration in drafting the Declaration of Independence.
If you are drawn to comparative religion, this is worth a read to get a good grasp on Calvinism and its influence in history, especially the last chapter.
This book thoroughly covers the doctrine of Predestination.
Not only does it cover predestination, but it also evaluates the multiple reformed doctrines, and shows how certain reformed doctrines harmonize together.
This book was helpful in understanding the doctrines of Grace from a historical view, a theological view, and contextual view.
I had this particular book recommended to me whenever I had many questions about the doctrine of Predestination.
If this is a topic you are interested in studying I recommend this book!
I began reading this book with many questions, and finished reading this book with many of my questions answered.
I started a few times before I finally finished the reading. The book is very exciting and reassuring, it helps me to think about my faith, about what I believe, and think it over. Predestination is only a small part of Calvinism, but a part that’s so often misunderstood and attacked, so understanding what it is about, will help us to refute those malicious attacks.
Most methodical and well reasoned book I’ve read on the subject, well supplied with large amounts of scriptural references and support. This is the book I would hand someone who wanted to understand reformed doctrine.
I had heard all sorts of things about "Calvinism," all of them negative, and so I wasn't disposed to think kindly of Boettner's views.And in fact I did argue with him (in my mind) quite a bit.
Yet there were a few specific points where I would say to myself, "If that's Calvinism, then I believe that bit of Calvinism." And even as I disagreed with Boettner, I realized that what I had been hearing about the system from the pulpit for the past nine years wasn't true - it was a caricature of Calvinism that was inaccurate in many respects.As a Christian, my first question about any doctrine is, Does the Bible teach it?
It has been a few years since I read it last so I'm due.Although I have a signed first edition of the book, I did not know Dr. Boettner personally.
My friend, Dr. Ed Wallen, told me of the first time he met Dr. Boettner; that when he was scheduled to preach at Henry Mahan's church in Kentucky, Ed asked Henry why he was going to allow a woman to speak from the pulpit.Loraine Boettner's communication of these blessed Biblical truths are clear and comprehensive so that the youngest student of God's Word can access them easily; while at the same time, his simplicity in presenting this blessed doctrine allows the most studied and academic of the reformed faith to receive again and again this treatise with joy unto God's glory.I most highly recommend this work to every reformed student of God's Word, as well as to those who have never explored the Calvinistic perspectives.
If true, then this is an implicit admission that Reformed theologians must agree with Open Theists that God can't know what He did not decree/what is undetermined.
This obviously makes nonsense out of several passages of the Bible where states of affairs that never obtained are used to make informed decisions about the actual world.
If Boettner is right, then God could not have known that the inhabitants of Keilah would surrender David, because God never decreed for that to obtain, which the Bible affirms that He did know.
In any case, it's a good read but Boettner, whether for ignorance, stubborness, or plain old Reformed hubris, only superficially treats objections to Calvinism.

Boettner does a remarkable job of establishing the doctrine of predestination as biblical,theologically sound, and rewarding for those who believe it. This scholarly and exhaustive work covers all 5 points of the TULIP of Calvinism, and shows the deep wells of God's grace and joy of espousing these truths in the reformed tradition. Highly recommended, Boettner's book remains the authority on Calvinist apologetics.
There are so many poignant and profound sections in this book that it was a true pleasure to read. This is a great, modern explanation of the doctrine of predestination that is easy for the reader to understand, and the author is fair and concise when refuting any counterarguments. That being said, when the author leaves the Bible and begins quoting Presbyterian Church in the United States position papers, he goes way, way off the reservation.
The clearest exposition on "Predestination" biblically for people who may have a difficult time reading deep theological books. Boettner keeps it biblical, clear, and straight-forward. The last chapter that compares and contrasts Calvinism and Arminianism with the respective counsels is worth the book alone. Don't say you've rejected predestination until AFTER you've read this book.
This book has been in my possession since my earliest days of studying the Reformed Faith. The content in this volume was very pivotal in helping me to understand and get a much better grasp on the doctrines of the Reformed faith. This book along with A.W. Pink's "Sovereignty of God" where the two books I carried around and referenced the most back in the day, to defend the Reformed position.
The chapter on Calvinism in History is worth the price of the book and the section on Calvinism and Education ought to be read in every major University and Ivy League school across the United States which owes its existence largely to the system of Calvinism which inspired so much growth in public education and the founding of so many schools.
This is a good and thorough summary of Reformed doctrine. Boettner challenged me to consider more carefully the centrality of the sovereignty of God, and his treatment of the various subjects was overall quite good. There are a couple of times, however, where his thinking appears to be inconsistent. All in all, it's well worth reading.
Boettner was trying to do the right thing but suffered from such a narrow understanding of the subject. This is perhaps the first major use of "TULIP" to explain predestination. It lacks the larger covenantal context, as well as any well-informed explanation of moderate Calvinism. The exegesis is strained as well. This book is historic but flawed.
See my notes from his _Studies in Theology_ This is a good volume overall, at least by way of communication and presentation... one of the more pastoral and theologically convincing arguments available in the US... that said, I find that it still ultimately fails... I hold a great deal of respect for Boettner... see notes from _Studies in Theology_
