https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79545.The_Book_About_Moomin_Mymble_and_Little_My
A moomin story with rhyming text. Little my is missing so moomin helps her sister Mymble search for her. On the way they meet lots of characters from Moomin valley. The illustrations are full page and very good, each page has a cut out part to look through to the next page and the reader is invited to guess what happens next. Great colours and a really fun read. We loved the page where the hattifatteners are having tea.
I love the way this book looks.
The book is great to look at.
It's not that it's bad, it's just not really Moomins.
Normally Mymble is one of my two favorite Moomin characters, but what I like so much about her character isn't here.
Instead this is just kind of a game of guess what happens next for kids, or maybe not game, is entertainment a better word?
I'd rather if this game of what happens next were played with Mymble and Snufkin traveling along with the question of what sweetly melancholy event will they encounter next.
http://www.moomin.com/eng/index.html
In this brilliant nonsense poem, which easily stands comparison with Lewis Carroll, Mumintroll is on his way home with a can of milk when he enters the dangerous-looking woods around nightfall: Från mjölkbutiken, klockan femEtt litet mumintroll gick hemEn kanna full med mjölk han barOch vägen lång och kuslig varOch vinden suckade och venI skogens alla mörka tränDet var ej långt från skymningenVad tror du att det hände sen? As on all the pages, the last line is Vad tror du att det hände sen?, "Wh
In this brilliant nonsense poem, which easily stands comparison with Lewis Carroll, Mumintroll is on his way home with a can of milk when he enters the dangerous-looking woods around nightfall:
Från mjölkbutiken, klockan femEtt litet mumintroll gick hemEn kanna full med mjölk han barOch vägen lång och kuslig varOch vinden suckade och venI skogens alla mörka tränDet var ej långt från skymningenVad tror du att det hände sen?
As on all the pages, the last line is Vad tror du att det hände sen?, "What do you think happened then?", and a piece of the next page has been cut away so that you can guess.It looks like the chimney of a house...
Ihana! Kuvitus ja kirjan aukot kiehtovat pikku lukijaa loputtomiin, eikä aikuinen lukija voi olla pitämättä kirjan kotoisasta kielestä, jossa Mymmelillä on "kolttu juovikas" ja Hommuli "käyttää pölynimijää".
Mumínci! Mumínci! Konečně, ach, jak dlouho jsem čekala! Ejchuchu a holala!
Tämä kirja se vain paranee jokaisella lukukerralla !Tämä oli yksi lapsuuteni suosikkikirjoista; jaksoin kuunnella tämän uudelleen ja uudelleen väsymättä tarinaan, riimittelyyn tai kuvitukseen. Mitä ilmeisemmin myös oma jälkikasvuni on ominut saman piirteen, sillä lapset nauliutuvat kirjan ääreen samantien kun se kirjahyllystä nostetaan luettavaksi.
Kouzelní mumínci, hravé prostřihovánky a krásně přebásněný text Radkem Malým, co víc si přát?! :)
Ik vind de Nederlandse vertaling op zich wel leuk, maar ik ben toch ook benieuwd naar hoe het is in het Zweeds (zeker omdat het ook met rijm is).En ook: in het originele boek was de tekst handgeschreven, maar in de Nederlandse vertaling hebben ze zo’n “handwritten” lettertype gebruikt dat volgens mij standaard in Word zit (wat je in het zesde leerjaar zou gebruiken voor je boekbespreking als je iets ~ludiek~ wou) en daardoor ziet het er plots zo amateuristisch uit.
I can name three examples off the top of my head where the pictures go far beyond the words they ostensibly illustrate.In the first, Robert Frost's poem, Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening, is illustrated by Susan Jeffers, whom I can only assume has no relationship whatsoever to Mr. Frost.
Ms. Jeffers, however, creates an entirely different story with her pictures to explain this man's stopping in the woods.
Where I wholly applaud Mr. Spier's drawings, and deplore Ms. Jeffers', they are similar in that the poems which they illustrate are perfectly capable of standing alone without the drawings.The drawings in Tove Jansson's book, The Book About Moomin, Mymble and Little My, are entirely different.

This is a wonderful book! First, it's about our beloved characters - Moomin Family. Second, it is well made, interactive, with flowing rhyme. Perfect for children from 3 years up.
Tove Jansson läser hela "Hur gick det sen?" https://svenska.yle.fi/artikel/2014/0...
❤️
Last night before sleeping, I decided to read it, it was a very nice book, written in a poetic way, simple words, excited adventure and the characters were nice as well, I enjoyed the book fully and couldn't stop till I finished it. It wasn't a long one though but you find your self attracted to it since the first page, the way the words were written, shaped and the little artistic things they made in the book gave it a very lovely look. It deserved the full stars.
This is beautiful. The art work and cut outs work beautifully with the rhyming text to help the child or children predict what will happen next. This book would work best for sharing in a small group or with an individual child, preferably ones who know the Moomin characters so that they can interact fully with the text. A pleasure to read.
From Finland, a national treasure - and why this book gets five stars is because of the design work. It's superb. Almost a 3D affect by the cut pages and by seeing the other page via a whole on the previous page, etc. Graphic design is the perfect medium for books. And this little killer of a book kicks a certain part of my body into a thrill.
I love this book so much. The progression of the story is so engaging with the reader asked to guess what happens next at every page turn. The illustrations and cut pages are wonderful, and the fact that it's a product of Finland just puts it over the top. I love everything Scandinavian!
As always, a completely charming Moomin story. A great read aloud for kids with beautiful art and cutouts.
Absolutely awesome, a beautiful and creative book from cover to cover (literally), and the start of my cravings for raspberry juice...in moomin Arabia mugs...
I love when the children pick this book to read. The illustrations and construction of this book truly create a world of wonder and surprise.
This was my first introduction to the children's books by Tove Jansson and it's just as charming as hell. My daughter absolutely loves it! Will be investing in more.
This one book is representational of my adoration of all things Moomin.
Windows.Story: Moomintroll is walking through the forest to home with a milk pail in his hands.
The reader is asked "what do you think happens next" and so follows the adventure from one twist to the next all the way home.Language: The book is filled with full page illustrations that gave cut out windows in them.
You don't need to know who the characters are to enjoy the story, but fans will delight at each segment.A bit long poem for little readers, but enjoyable for older children and above fans.
If you don't, you're a traitor, I'm just kidding, but am I really.According to my mother this is one of the more popular Mumin books, which I believe, but I had personally never heard of either this one or another one she purchased.
A book like this would be perfect to read with a child, there's lots to look at and the cutouts on each page are cleverly done.
The only thing I can really complain about is that it's on the shorter side and that the cursive font is sometimes hard to read.
The first picture book in the Moomin series, The Book About Moomin, Mymble and Little My, captures the unusual and entertaining world which Tove Jansson has become so famous for.
The beautiful picture book tells the story of little Moomintroll, on his way back home after collecting some milk for Moominmamma.
The text reminds me of the work of Dr. Seuss, using similar literacy devices (rhyme, nonsense words and rhythm) and illustrative techniques (dark, block colour, line drawings) to transport you to the fantasy world of Moomin valley.
I loved this book - the unusual and nonsense characters, the tactile nature of the book, the interconnected text and illustration and the story were enjoyable from start to finish.
Though it is classified as a children's book, I think that the Moomin books are fit for all ages. Even on a bleak day, they always manage to bring a smile to my face and make me feel all warm and fuzzy inside. They are like a warm blanket, a steaming cup of hot cocoa or a crackling fireplace ... a must-read for anyone.
From the die cut pages to the illustrations and hand lettering, the book itself is simply beautiful. The story is, of course, very sweet, but the die cuts and clever layovers make this book an experience.
I see these Moomin books everywhere at the library and have wanted to read them, so I picked up this picture book. Perhaps I shouldn't have started with this one. It was alright. The cut outs of each page were neat, but otherwise, it wasn't the greatest thing ever.
Tämä kirja tappoi kaiken kiinnostuksen Janssonin tekeleisiin noin neljännesvuosisadaksi. Onhan se klassikko, mutta minä en innostu vieläkään. Tunnistan toki taiteelliset ansiot, mutta henkilökohtaisesti pidän sekä kv tessiä, että valtion tulo- ja menoarviota kiinnostavampina kuin tätä kirjaa.
I'm supposed to be studying for my Swedish exam and kind of ended up listening to this as an audio book instead
