https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/137908.The_Psychology_of_the_Child
It is dense and the language somewhat archaic, but I did gain some very useful insights into the child's cognitive development through persevering through this work.
Dr Piaget traces the child's responses to this and many other concepts through stages of cognitive development from infancy to adolescence.
This helped me enormously in terms of understanding what my children could handle at various stages.
Many other books are based on this work and it may well be that these would be easier references for busy parents, but I found this a solid base for the challenging role of parenting.
By today's standards, this is an old book on cognitive development, until adolescence. Basically it describes the 4 stages of cognitive development, postulated and researched by Jean Piaget and collaborator Barbel Inhelder. A more advanced view would include a post-formal stage. We know that, however, the sort of "experimentation" Piaget took recourse to, had some criticism, as well as the logical or mathematical theory under which he formalised this sequence of stages. To me, he was a kind of
By today's standards, this is an old book on cognitive development, until adolescence.
Basically it describes the 4 stages of cognitive development, postulated and researched by Jean Piaget and collaborator Barbel Inhelder.
A more advanced view would include a post-formal stage.
We know that, however, the sort of "experimentation" Piaget took recourse to, had some criticism, as well as the logical or mathematical theory under which he formalised this sequence of stages.
To me, he was a kind of philosopher, who trying to overcome both the rationalist and empiricist positions in Epistemology, created a new view point: Genetic Epistemology.
Pertinent, still.
After reading Margaret Donaldson's wonderful 'Children's Minds,' I wanted more immersion in the source material covered second hand in my teaching credential program.
Piaget was a god, but we never read him.
Now, after struggling through this summary of his work produced for a broader audience, I can tell you Piaget is very, very challenging to read, even in 'dumbed-down' form.
In the future, I might use excerpts from this as an example of dense prose requiring full engagement when I tell children that adults often have trouble understanding what they read, too.
The effort sometimes rewarded me, but it was a real and serious effort.
It is a short lil book though, and not horrifically dense as academic things go.I liked this because I love psych (one of my undergrad minors), and because I'm working with kids right now.
Here's a quote on symbolic play in young children, and about how it essentially allows them to make sense of reality on their own term before incorporating the world's rules on it, that I really liked: 
"Play transforms reality by assimilation to the needs of the self, whereas imitation is accomodation to external models....
The symbols characteristic of symbolic play are borrowed from imitation as instruments, but not used to accurately picture external reality.
This is the seminal book on modern childhood education and development. I highly recommend this book to anyone who is entering or considering to enter into the field of education. I still have my well-worn, original copy with all my penciled commentary in the margins.
Esencial. Se ha escrito mucho después y hay otras fuentes de las que poder extraer buenos resúmenes, ampliaciones y reflexiones sobre la teoría de Piaget pero de vez en cuando acudir a los orígenes no está mal.
Piaget, the famous Swiss developmental psychologist and philosopher, and his ideas as presented in The Psychology of the Child are worth reading if you have any interest in child psychology, developmental or educational theory.
His findings in this book, and many of his other works, conclude (I am grossly simplifying here) that children don’t think like adults and it takes a long process to get to developmental adulthood.
The book documents Piaget's developmental stages of the child.
While reading this book, I was amazed at how internalized much of Piaget’s thinking is today in educational and developmental theory.
Piaget was a genius, for sure. Thank goodness for a condensed volume of his theories, because I doubt I will ever get through his other stuff. This is an incredibly dense little volume that requires a great deal of concentration to follow (and even then certain parts eluded me entirely - like every time the subject was mathematical concepts). Beyond commenting on the writing itself I can only say there is a reason Piaget's work (as well as the man himself) is venerated.
A dry, highly technical and formalized schematic primer of Piaget's attack on behaviorism and associationism, etc. Not the general survey I was looking for...
Cok teorik cok. Profesyonel ugrasmiyorsaniz konuyla ilgili yeniden dusunun kitabi okumak icin.
Probably better to read someone else's synopsis of his work, really. He's kind of a d-bag.
كتاب رائع حقا ولكن كما تعودنا من العملاق جين بياجيت قمة في الصعوبة و الدقة العلمية....يطفوا على اسلوبه الاستخدام الغزير للمصطلحات العلمية مع الاحتفاظ بالتفاصيل الدقيقة للعمليات العلمية...كتاب صعب جدا علميا ولغويا...والترجمة الدنماركية لم تساعد في تبسيط هذا الجانب علي...بل العكس لان ليس لدي المام مقبول بالمصطلحات النفسية والمنطقية في هذه اللغة....ولكن مع هذا استطعت ان اهضم محتوى الكتاب واخرج بفهم ابهرني وشوقني على الاستمرار في الغوص في عالم بياجيت الساحر...يناقش بياجيت التطور المعرفي, العقلي والادراكي لدى الاطفال وكيف مرورها بمراحل عمرية محددة....ومدى تاثير العمليات الحسية والحركية في نضوج هذه العوامل...
and also the crucial impact of senso-motor processes in the maturation of these factors...
Materiál, ktorý v mojom prípade nebol študijný, mi dokázal ozrejmiť niektoré záležitosti ohľadom môjho detstva.
Žiadna psychoanalýza, ani Freud a jeho nadsvetové úvahy, ani Jung.
Samozrejme, netvrdím že ich Piaget nezmienil, avšak svojou vlastnou pracovitosťou a precíznosťou dokázal vypracovať jedinečné dielo, ktoré o dieťati hovorí pragmaticky.
Vychádza zo skúsenosti rovnako, ako aj jeho čitatelia.
Tí si milo dokážu pripomenúť časy minulé a presvedčiť sa o tom, že do istej miery aj vždy prítomné.
Miestami je použitá komplikovanejšia, psychologická terminológia, avšak s dávkou vôle sa dá cez všetko prepracovať a táto kniha urobí neprehliadnuteľný zárez do mozgových závitov.
The development of our being starts since we were a child, this means that every experience counts, one question might be How can we help a child to have a correct development?In this book, Piaget teaches the different stages of the psychology development of a person, from birth to adolescence, a well understanding of this we'll give us the tools to raise our kids in a better way.
Very dull. I know Jean Piaget is a master of child psychology, but this book was too theoretical and difficult to read since its writing style was so archaic. It might work as an academic book, but I was looking for something more practical for my line of work and this did not help very much.
Este libro fue la base de la asignatura de Psicología Infantil en el primer curso de Magisterio. El argumento fundamental es que la mente de un niño se va formando poco a poco y sufre muchos cambios hasta que se convierte en adulto. En vez de buscar patología se centra en la normalidad.
it is very interesting to learn about child's psychology since all will become ine day a dad or a mam . so it ie very important to learn this book to benefit from all long the life.
This was a part of required reading at the College of Education. Like so many.of those books I never read it in entirety(1974_78).
really interesting summary of Piaget's works on the child development.not enough material about language though.. :/
L
a bit heavy to read and technical can get boring if you are not interested in profound study of the child's intellect.
sdaghldsfd bbfgmv
genetic epistemology
look interesting
