https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/268278.Breakfast_in_Bed
The author gave us the reasons for the hero: the woman was his friend's wife, he wanted to take care of her, and he needed a family because it was time.Aha. Well, first of all, call me completely crazy but if you wanted to link your self to anybody , and I mean anybody will do, then why not choose your own bed partner?
By stopping her from finding somebody to love and marry in her own time?But, alas, maybe the said female really is to stupid to live , can not provide and care for her family… you want to marry a moron?
Cheaters, cheaters!! Pumpkin eaters!! Perhaps one of my least favorite SB books. I just cannot bring myself to give one her books one star. I almost did with this one though.
Ovu knjigu mogu jedino opisati kao slatku limunadicu.
🙄🙄🙄
However, I have read Sandra Brown’s Breakfast in Bed twice since receiving it a week ago, so something in it clicked with me.
I thought the story became much more compelling when Carter asks Sloan to preview his manuscript, a privilege which he has never granted to anyone else.
Their relationship left the physical plane and moved up to a spiritual plane, which definitely ignited the physical plane.One question I had was when Sloan visits Carter’s house when he’s not there and remarks about his great “record” collection.
At the end was a chapter of "Send Me No Flowers," which is the sequel to Breakfast in Bed. Now I want to read that one also.
I made it to page 45 and I just couldn't make myself go any further.I have to wonder what Sandra Brown was thinking when she decided to give away this book.
I've stayed in downtown San Francisco, off Union Square even, and believe me - it's not somewhere you go for peace and quiet.My second problem with the story is that Sloan lets her best friend, Alicia, send her fiance to stay at her bed and breakfast, in spite of the fact that she has a policy about not taking single men.
I expect nothing more from a romance.You also have to know that when it comes to cheating, I don't think anything can justify it!But nonetheless here I go:The two sides of Carter MadisonOn the one hand he is a charming writer who seems to have got himself into a situation where he is going to marry his decease friend's widow and be a father to her children, even though he doesn't love her.
When she doesn't want to sleep with him (because his fiancé is her friend) he becomes abusive.
I totally love this book.
Definitely my favorite Sandra Brown book.
I originally read it many, many years ago and have read tons of her books since and this is still my favorite.
Typical cheesy love story.
A woman falls in love with her best friend's fiance.
The fiance falls in love back.
I know it sounds sarcastic but I really, really love this "cheesy" love story.
Sandra Brown's old books have always been my guilty pleasure.
But I love the book and her old books so much that I can't make myself rate this one lower.
Honestly when I almost immediately got a bad taste in my mouth when I started this book I was still wondering if I have a case of acid reflux or if my usual dislike of romance is the reason I simply could not make myself like either main protagonist.But hey, lets recap.
because you are ever so noble.Now I am expected to use his OBLIGATORY status as a valid reason why he actively pursues said fiancé's best friend the second he is out of her sight.
You can use the end to justify your excuses for TRUE LOVE but as her eyes found him as if she was beckoned to be so....
I've never read a "romance" novel this bad before.
(Which I will explain in my spoiler review.) The scenes got worse and worse, it was all the same crap over and over.
The story wasn't what I expected it to be, it was the worst romance I've read in a long, long time, and the characters just amplified that.
It got old very fast.
Terrible romance novel, stay far, far away.Favorite Quotes:"They sparkled like liquid diamonds in the firelight." (Page 137)"It was still raining, but the steady dripping sound was welcomed.
Somehow it helped assure their privacy, set them apart, separated them from the world." (Page 149)Overall Opinion: F~Kaylahttp://kaylasbookcase.blogspot.com/
Carter (her best friend's fiance) is staying at the B&B to work on finishing up his latest bestseller.
What a jerk--both to Alicia (his fiance) and to Sloan.
But it's explained away because he and Alicia only got engaged because he was best friends with her dead husband and is like a father already to her children.
And Sloan gives in because she supposedly can't help herself, even though she's betraying her best friend.
Sure, there's tension written into the story because they both feel guilty and do this push-pull thing when they remember that Carter is actually engaged.
Well, I read this book out of order, but it didn’t make much difference. I already knew some of the characters and the outcome. I just didn’t know the process - how they got there. Not much substance but an enjoyable story.
I received this book for free through Goodreads First Reads.
I read another review where the reader had mentioned that she wasn't sure what Sandra Brown was hoping to gain in providing this giveaway.
I find it difficult at times to provide a review on a book that didn't fare too well in my opinion.
I realize that's the whole point of providing a review, but this one is a little awkward for me to write.
Sadly, it made the love scenes a little weird.
Within the first few hours of meeting each other, Sloan is thrown onto the bed to "act out" a scene from his book that he's currently writing.
I had received this book from "Sandra Brown", Goodreads Author, to review; I have only just started the first couple chapters, It grabs your interest right from the start, with suspense and anticipation of romance.between Sloan and Carter.
Salon runs a bed & breakfast, her best friend (Alicia)is engaged to an Author who is having trouble finishing his book, Alicia makes arrangements for Carter to spend a month at her friend Salons B&B to work on his book.
They both are torn between living a life of love and passion and hurting Alicia or live separate lives so no one's hurt but Sloan and Carter.
It was an nice read and entertaining, but the characters ware a bit flat and I felt that the story could have ben more evolved and made deeper.
The book contain several intimate moments, and I did not feel that I got to know the characters.
I liked the surroundings in the book and that the characters ware driven and ambitious, I just would have wanted a bit more of all of that in the book and a little less romance.
Otherwise the book was like I said entertaining and I liked som of the other characters and I am looking forward to the next book which follows these persons.

Listened to this last night and I think it would have been much better to read. Since it was recorded in 1997, in all of the dramatic 'climatic' scenes cheesy music would begin to play in the background and make me want to stop listening to the story.The story as a whole was okay. There was a lot of repetition, and the characters at times were shallow.In conclusion, glad I read it but I wouldn't recommend it.
An older romance from Sandra Brown that definitely has a dated feel. However, even with the sometimes purple prose, and the fact that the basic plot isn't one of my favorites (woman falls in love with fiancee of best friend), I enjoyed spending a few hours reading the book.
i absolutely loved this book. it was so sweet. i loved the plot and the characters. they were so fun. their relationship was fun to read about. need to read again
Risiko novel tipis ya ceritanya simple aja dipadu bumbu-bumbu hormon yang bergejolak sebagai penyedap (halah bahasa gue).Alur ceritanya kurang smooth, bukan terlalu cepat sih tp lebih ke apa ya duh ga bisa dijabarin pokoknya banyak yang loncat sana sini, bisa dimaklumi kok risiko novel tipis.Karakter heroinenya (katanya) suka merendahkan dirinya sendiri (tapi kalo di atas tempat tidur bisa jadi singa) tapi kurang banget digambarin, bisa dimaklumi kok risiko novel tipis.Konfliknya yah soal 'aku tresno kr kowe dik' tapi 'aku ra gelem mas' lalu 'atiku loro' lalu 'aku KSBB' lalu 'atiku wis dadi milikmu seorang'.**KSBB=Kelingan Sing Biyen Biyen, maksudnya keinget sama mantan.Chemistry-nya nggak dapet sama sekali.
1-22-2018: It’s been at least 20 years since I’ve read a romance novel and it may be that long before I read another one. I’m kind of embarrassed that I read this and more embarrassed that I actually enjoyed it! It was kind of fun to indulge in some trashy soft porn!
eh-eh-eh
I'm glad I have read more of Brown's novels so that I realize she is so much better than this one.
Ugh. Hated it. Skimmed through most just to finish it.
I could lie and say I didn't know it was going to be bad, but I did.
The thing is, I was bored and I was (kinda) in the mood for some eye-rolling.
This novel is so bad it's ridiculous!
I read the first novel by Sandra Brown not really knowing what am I getting into.
The thing is, if by any chance someone is reading this, and if you dear reader have any aspirations of becoming a writer yourself, then Miss Brown's work is a perfect example of all the things you should not do!
The characters are ridiculous (yes, yes, I know I keep repeating that word, bear with me!).
I don't think the idea of cheating on your best friend's fiance is a good idea.
If all women do like Sloan did to Alicia, I'd better have no bestfriend.
Never trust people a hundred percentI don't want to blame all things to Sloan and Carter.
I believe Alicia did a stupid mistake by letting her fiance stayed a month in her bestfriend's business house.
GROSS.If there's no Alicia in that story, I'll fall in love with Sloan and Carter.
And Sloan ever fell with the wrong guy, so when she saw Carter showed so much love to her, she fell for him.
...I don’t know where to start. When reading this book I was insulted as a woman with free will and thoughts of my own. But I was also questioning whether the author actually is a woman. It was so bad I had to keep myself from throwing the tablet off the balcony. Which would be even worse as all the good books in there would go with it.I really wish I didn’t need to read this book and here are a few examples why: “Her breast were trembling beneath the sheerest, most elegant lingerie she owned.”
When reading this book I was insulted as a woman with free will and thoughts of my own.
Which would be even worse as all the good books in there would go with it.I really wish I didn’t need to read this book and here are a few examples why:
“Her breast were trembling beneath the sheerest, most elegant lingerie she owned.” 
They need a man to be complete??
Abuse is when a woman strokes a man to rigid senselessness and then tells him it’s no dice”
-	I have no wordsIf you ever wonder if you want to read this book.
It is mushy and filled with fantasy love scenes, which I guess all romantic books are.
It was all about the 'heroine' as they would term it in Bollywood falling for her best friends finance.
However, like a typical Bollywood movie it has a happy ending.
The most touching part in this book for me was when the hero, Carter Madisn wants the heroine, Sloan Fairchild to read a draft of his book - it means they did share something deeper than just physical lust.
I would say, read this book, if you like romance.
Thanx to Goodreads.com and Sandra Brown, I won this edition in a giveaway.
Truly a good read.P.S. I cut my romance reading teeth on Loveswept books.
Had I been able to name it, I would have known that I'm one of those people who believe in the power and necessity of a good fairy tale.
The little boy in the book used to say "good morgoling, dar-gling".
I'm saying all this to say, I love romance novels and am not ashamed of reading them out in public and in the company of non-believers in fairy tales.
But Carter must marry Alicia and look after her children, and Sloan knows that it doesn't matter if they love each other.
They have to let it go.Well, I'm not a romantic person but I do enjoy this kind of books, once in a while.
And, though the story is quite the classical romantic scenery, with all the irresistible attraction and the barriers against the love of both characters, I found myself wanting to know more and more about the story.First, I liked the idea of the huge differences among them.
Not exactly my favorite kind of book, but one I really enjoyed reading.
