https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1005680.Basil_of_Baker_Street
4 STARS!!This was so much fun to read. I just finished A Study in Scarlet and unintentionally I was reading this as if this story was taking place during the first Sherlock Holmes book and it made it a whole lot more exciting. The Disney movie is one of my favorite animated movies of all time and I wish they had made sequels to the movie. I love these new re-issued covers too! I kind of want to own them all now. - Richard
Does anyone else remember this 1950's children's classic about a mystery-solving mouse? Reminiscent of Mrs. Frisby and the Rats of NIMH and The Rescuers, Basil of Baker Street gives the old but always-in-style stories of Sherlock Holmes a voice, the small but determined voice of a mouse to be exact.
I have mixed feelings about this book.
I appreciated it on several levels, just not the level of actually reading the thing.I know, it's intended for kids.
Small kids.
We should just say it's not one of those kids books that holds up.
The adventures of "The mouse sherlock holmes" should be cute, but oddly diminishes Basil compared to the Disney movie.
Faced with the example of actual Holmes, he is overawed, and over the course of this book managed to do relatively little.
Basil comes off as competent, but far more average than any Holmes doppelganger ought to.
Sherlock Holmes als Maus? Wer sich das nicht vorstellen kann, sollte sich an Eve Titus wenden. Flott geschrieben und immer einen Hinweis auf den großen 'Holmes' in der Hinterhand, ist es ein kleines Buch für zwischendurch.
Written by children’s author Eve Titus, Basil is a mouse possessing the qualities of Sherlock Holmes, whom he has studied at close range. In this mystery, Basil must save two mice sisters who were kidnapped. This series is delightful no matter what the age of the reader is, and the superb narration by Ralph Lister adds much enjoyment.
"Basil of Baker Street" works the other way around - it tells the story of a mouse who lives with Sherlock Holmes, though presumably unbeknownst to Holmes himself, and idolizes him to the point of actually going out and solving crimes and mysteries in the mouse world.
So what you get here, in a nutshell, is a Sherlock Holmes style book tailored for small children with a shorter and simpler story and cute little animals.
I’m sorry to admit that as much as I have always love Disney’s Great Mouse Detective, this the first time I have read this book. I don’t know why I never picked it up as a child, but I didn’t.  It is a mouse version of Sherlock with nice tie ins to the Sherlock stories. A bit moralistic at the end – don’t talk to strangers you hear. But good fun.
I love detective stories so it was a good read. Myrna, age 7
My son and I read this together. Well, mostly he read to me and I listened. We both enjoyed this cute little book and are continuing the series together!
Not as much heart & character as the movie, actually. This mouse has an obsession that is probably unhealthy. A nice quick light charming read, though.
What a delightful little book. This series seems to've been forgotten, which is a shame, because I can't imagine little ones not enjoying this tiny tribute to Sherlock Holmes!
Basil is the Sherlock Holmes of the Mouse World.
His friend and associate Dr. Dawson narrates the story.
Mrs. Judson is their mousekeeper.
The mouse detective has learned his sleuthing skills by listening to Sherlock Holmes tell Dr. Watson how he solved his cases.
Basil and Dr. Dawson live in the mouse village, Holmestead, in the cellar at 221B Baker Street.
In this book Basil solves the kidnapping of the mouse twins Angela and Agatha.
Children will enjoy this book, and grown-up Sherlockians will appreciate it even more.
If you like "Basil of Baker Street," there are four delightful sequels.
This is one of my favorite Sherlock retellings ever.
It's clever, original, and yet it is written like a classic Sherlock Holmes mystery,  but with mice.
I read this aloud to myself (but only when I was home alone) because I wanted to give all the characters accents, and just in general act it out a bit, which I recommend if you are a dramatic human because it's super fun.
The mystery was simple, but it was the characters (and the accents, if I may say so myself) that really shone about this book.
After watching the great Disney movie The Great Mouse Detectives I decided to look up some fanart.
Suddenly I kept hearing about some book about Basil, so I looked it up here on Goodreads, and sure enough it's a book.
The next time I visited the library I looked for it and to my great delight it was there.
It was a very easy read.
My forgotten childhood hero rose to new heights.
A really great kids book and another great mystery to add to my small shelf.
I usually don't willingly read mysteries but I begining to find that I rather like them.
For fans of Sherlock Holmes and the Disney film about Basil, this is a great and incredibly easy read. I love how the author nonchalantly creates her mouse detective as a Holmes miniature, paying homage along the way and every now and then throwing in the considerations one must take to be a mouse. Also, Dawson is not nearly as bumbling as Disney made him, the which I totally approve of. Basil is a cleaned up, caring version of Holmes; as the author wishes, a great bridge to the grown-up's detective.
Great children's book. Similar to Sherlock Holmes, but written for elementary-aged kids, with a mouse detective (Basil) and a mouse sidekick (Dr. Dawson) and lots of other mouse characters. Looks like My Father's Dragon in terms of length, size of type, and number of words on a page, but has lots of high-level vocabulary. Written back in the 50's so a bit old-fashioned, and I mean that in a good way.
Really good for kids! This was one of my favorites, along with Ghost in the Third Row, when I was just starting to read (I really hated reading, but you would know an interesting book if I actually kept with it.) This is short and quick enough to keep a kid engaged and it's about mice in clothes! Who wouldn't like it??
I reas this guy as part of some rsearch Im doing on a possible future video discussing the use of rodents in childrens books.
I am now super keen on rewatching the disney film based on the wonderful little mice in this story as well.I enjoyed this one not just as a child's introduction to Sherlock Holmes, mystery, detective fiction, and who knows what else, but because it didn't pull its punches.
I always commend children's books that don't talk down to the kids.
Great for spreading the Arthur Conan Doyle bug to a little one near you.
Owen: I liked this book. It was so good. It was exciting when they solved the case. *robot voice* I-I-I-I-it was really good. Basil is a good character. It’s fun that he’s a detective. Mom: I had no idea these were books! This was a pretty fun read. Not as scary as the movie, great for kids, well-paced. The language was simple, but not stupid. Some words would probably challenge new readers, but not overly so.
4.5 stars, such a cute and lovely story (and I absolutely adored the dedication at the start). Nice and quick, here's hoping Rattigan makes an appearance later in the series
Clever and cute. A great way to get kids on mysteries for life. Sherlock Holmes would be flattered in his mouse alter ego.
Oh I loved this, it was adorable. I love that he actually learned at the feet of Sherlock Holmes. I think it's a great way to get kids introduced to the classic character. Some structural things could be fixed, like the climax of the story came about 40 pages away from the end, but still very cute, and I'm glad that we got the movie Great Mouse Detective because of this!
This was adorable, and was exactly what I expected it to be. It had the same feel as one of the Sherlock Holmes short stories, and while it was clear this was for children, the language wasn't completely juvenile, which I greatly appreciated. I enjoy the characters, especially Basil, as he felt fairly well rounded considering the short period of time we got to spend with him. The plot was cute, and I'm glad that I finally got around to reading this (and I intend to continue on in the series immediately).
Read this with the kids, it has their attention and I’m not bored to death. It’s like the mouse detective and they like it more than redwall.
I read this book because I loved the Disney movie it inspired; The Great Mouse Detective.
Perhaps I would have enjoyed it more if I had read it before seeing the movie.
I do not mean that as a negative necessarily, there have been many children's books I enjoyed immensely and will continue to read the rest of my life.
This was a book that was designed to appeal to a young audience, it was written as a children's book.
The pictures are kind of weird; for anthropomorphic mice, their faces look a little too mouse-y. Where are their mouths??! Maybe that's just because I saw the Disney movie based on this book (the Great Mouse Detective) first. The story itself is fine and works as a great introduction to the world of Sherlock Holmes for small children.Still, I'm not sure I kept this book because I liked it, or because I spilled blood on it while I was at the hospital.
Super quick and cute read!
It's elementary, my dear Dawson!
Love this book. Reminds me of Ben and Me.
(October - December 2015)Basil is a mouse with one great ambition, to be the best detective for mice that ever was, much like his idol, Sherlock Holmes, is to humans.
Disguising themselves as sailors, Basil and Dawson set forth to rescue the twins and stop villainy from getting a grip in Baker Street!There are books that elicit the nostalgia response in you very easily.
It is a reinterpretation, with mice, of the greatest literary detective ever.But if Eve Titus is a fan of Sherlock Holmes, his true number one fan is Basil himself.
