https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356106.The_Astonished_Man
Read this multiple times, and enjoyed it (and the other three books of this quartet) thoroughly. I was delighted to be asked to contribute a Preface to the 2004 edition.Some day I hope to see Cendrars' complete works available in english. For now, much of it is buried to anglo-only readers, as a great portion of his work has either not been translated or, in the case of english translations, has fallen out of print.
Not only that, but there is an insight to this book that leaves me in awe...Blaise Cendrars, with one hand, (literally) out wrote, out lived and out loved all other artists of his day.
In fact, I would not call this book a novel, I view it more to be a laughing prayer, straight into the cosmos, beaming with curiosity and content...If only I knew the french language, for how joyful and wonderful it would have been to read this script in the loving tongue of the man himself.
I, as well, am astonished and hope that I forever will remain so. How can a human being be otherwise in front of this madness, this labyrinth of sensations, expressions and infinite tortures and pleasures, that we call life. But only a handful people have managed to translate this non-stop torrent into words. Divine words written for a world without a god to rely on. And un-extinguishable source of life, with one arm plunging himself in the very aorta of the bloodstream of existence. I salute you my dear Astonished Man...
Not Cendrars' best, but if you find the man interesting, this is surely worth your time. Exciting, frenetic, eccentric, sublime, burly, etc.
Pretty crazy stuff by the French legionnaire-poet. Brazil, gypsy gangsters, Marseille, the stuff of dreams. Werner Herzog may even have been inspired with his imagery of Caruso blaring in the jungle by Cendrars.
Sprankelend, avontuurlijk proza, soms ook wat narcistisch
J’ai encore cette pauvre petite photocopie fripée dans mes affaires, même si ça fait longtemps que j’ai acheté le recueil dans lequel est édité le poème.Poète-aventurier, cinéaste à ses heures, grand voyageur, amoureux de voitures & d’histoires de ruée vers l’or – c’était quand même tout un monsieur, Blaise.
J’avais beaucoup aimé Bourlinguer, lu il y a deux ou trois ans, alors quand j’ai vu L’homme foudroyé dans une librairie de livres usagers, je l’ai acheté.
À croire qu’il n’existe pas, dans la France (& le Brésil, & l’Afrique du Nord, &...) une seule femme qui ait quelque chose qui ressemble, de près ou de loin, à une cervelle.
Well, that's not easy to read!
(read in french)Cendrars is apparently a master in enumerations in very long sentences.
They are beautiful, the ideas they carry are amazingly clever and stunningly exciting (Cendrars makes parallels which will make you smile and think a lot!), but you need to be fully awake to follow them!The "story" is a patchwork of his life, still chronological, but the diversity of the elements that are described can easily get you lost if, again, you are not awake and focused.My final point will be that, as a reader, I am truly thrilled by the discovery of words in my mother tongue (french).
Ce récit, entre roman et mémoires retrace des passages de la vie de l'auteur, mais romancés, travestis.
Tantôt à Marseille et ses alentours, à Paris ou sa banlieue ou sur les routes d'Amérique du Sud, il est question de ses rencontres avec des célébrités comme de « gens simples », de son mode de vie, de l'écriture, etc..
Mais pour le reste, il y a — selon moi — des longueurs, pas réellement de fil conducteur, pas mal d'égocentrisme (?) de l'auteur, qui font que je n'ai pas totalement adhéré.
Early on, in beautiful prose, you find out who the astonished man is, and at that point you are either Cendrars' compatriot for life or you walk away.
Very enjoyable
