https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3679.On_Beauty
I had no idea there were books like that, that there were stories like that and that people were telling them.
I can’t quite recall now what it was about ‘White Teeth’ that spoke to me so but it was as if a curse was lifted and I could read and use my brain again.For this OCD reason or another, a decade had to pass before I read another Zadie Smith’s book.
Even if some of the observations were not particularly revelatory to me I have to give it to Zadie – she knows how to write people.
When I say I am not a people person, I mean I can find five reasons to hate someone, anyone, within ten minutes of meeting them in real life.
Teaching that book to students today will give you exuberant know nothings with nary a thought as to the twisting of privilege in the smallest facet of daily life, a truth fended off every second of every hour with empty courtesy, gentrified fortresses, and the avoidance of certain subjects.
There is, despite the hypocritical politickings, something beautiful worth living for in the halls of thought.
The truth in this quote sends shivers down my spine. It's so real, like all of Smith's writing: “Stop worrying about your identity and concern yourself with the people you care about, ideas that matter to you, beliefs you can stand by, tickets you can run on. Intelligent humans make those choices with their brain and hearts and they make them alone. The world does not deliver meaning to you. You have to make it meaningful...and decide what you want and need and must do. It’s a tough, unimaginabl
It’s a tough, unimaginably lonely and complicated way to be in the world.
The novel concerns itself with identity in the modern space.
But identity is not simple in a globalised world.
Even the title of the novel shows Smith preoccupations with words and ideas.
M. Forster, to whom all my fiction is indebted, one way or the other.”On a basic level, she’s copied the plot and narrative progression of Forster’s novel, but she has transported it to the modern world.
Contrary to a lot of people's opinions, I loved this book!
The first couple of chapters were unpredictable and refreshing, and the rest of the book was an amazing story about family life, marriage problems, racism, growing up, and beauty.
"On Beauty" was one of those books that grabbed me from beginning till end, and while I've only read one other novel by Zadie Smith, this one has been my favourite so far.
It was easy to read and yet a very universal book that I think everyone can benefit from reading - even though it does seem that some people don't really like this novel at all.
This is a book full of unbeautiful people: obnoxious teenagers, philandering academics, stuffy professors, right-on street rappers, wispy rich kids and more obnoxious teenagers. Zadie takes a scalpel to Anglo-American academic relations, probing away at the race/class issues with her usual mordant unflinching cruelty and compassion. She plants a series of depth charges in the lives of her wibbling characters, watching them each explode in turn into quivering heaps of gloopy suet. As ever, the ride is a scream.
Smith accomplishes much in this, her third novel.
"Autograph Man" was sadly not memorable enough & "White Teeth", the novel that quickly turned her into the valedictorian of all modern young writers, was epic but also did not engage me too much.
"On Beauty" is exceptionally readable, relevant/modern, complicated, witty.
Modern novels, at least those that are implemented into the canon (think: The Poisonwood Bible, The Corrections...), must either have that moment where a tear kinda materializes because emotions are too vivid, or because the scene contains awesomely understated beauty.
If I reveal that the scene where once was there was a closet-full of colorful clothes and now only a suit remains...
It was hard enough to believe in such a deep academic feud between the father and his rival...but then the rivals move down the street and the feud continues but the moms are friends so when one of them dies and they just all HAPPEN to be near the same part of England the Belsey family attends the funeral and Howard does it with the same girl his son had been in love with.
The novel revolves around the Belsey family; Howard, the white male academic described earlier, his African-American wife Kiki and their three children, Zora, Levi and Jerome.
Howard is a left wing (ish) liberal and he has an academic rival, Monty Kipps, a Trinidadian who is rather right wing (whilst writing this I am suddenly reminded of Naipaul who is Trinidadian and was a fan of Thatcher; but the resemblance ends there).
Smith captures the right level of warmth, hope, youthful verve and irritatingness for three teenage children.
There is a warmth and humanity to all the characters, even Howard and Monty, both hypocrites.
There are also moments of great perception; Howard simply does not seem to understand the reactions to his infidelity.
i read this too long ago to write a proper review of it, but this is a little heads-up if anyone wants to check out a "summer reruns" list i made over here:https://www.rifflebooks.com/list/237495i do so love making lists.
I was deeply displeased with this book.
I only read it because I got it for free (found it on the street in a pile of other middling titles), but though that excuses my starting it, it does not at all excuse my slogging through, stubbornly determined, all the way to the end.
The truth is this: I was too lazy to figure out what to read next, which is incredibly idiotic, so I deserved what I got.
This book sucked and I kind of suck for reading it.
I loved the extra layer of meaning that my reading of E.M. Forster's Howards End provided -- but I don't think it's necessary to do background reading to enjoy this novel.
It's a book with many layers, which is just the kind of fiction I love the most!Zadie Smith has experience in many worlds, crosses many boundaries, and has interesting things to say from a variety of perspectives (including as both a fiction writer and as an academic).
Cue in a slew of other characters that will bring out the best and worst of the Belsey clan.The story addresses culture norms, social class, political differences, stereotypes, personal vendettas and the like.
There would be pages upon pages of description and I rather prefer dialogue: bring back Kiki and her likeable charm.
Kiki, Jerome and Levi were the only characters I liked; much of the others were highly irritating.It’s a thought-provoking read and made for some good conversation at book club.
This is a novel where I would love to read a prequel and a sequel if Ms Smith would be so kind as to write them.
The review which has the novel in a nutshell and by far the best is: MJ Nicholls's review Mar 20, 11 5 of 5 stars bookshelves: novels, sassysassenachs, tortured-artists, distaff Read from March 13 to 16, 2011 “This is a book full of unbeautiful people: obnoxious teenagers, philandering academics, stuffy professors, right-on street rappers, wispy rich kids and more obnoxious teenagers.
With a literary nod to a favourite novel of mine, Howards End - which is anything but sassy and street-wise - this is a novel that only Zadie Smith could pull off.
Here Howard, middle-aged intellectual Brit transplanted to the United States courtesy of his voluptuous, African-American, non-intellectual (and utterly wonderful) wife, Kiki, is having a conversation with a curator at the college where he teaches (who speaks the first line):’Ag’inst Rembrandt’, the second man said.
I have a 'don't judge a book by it's cover' mentality merely because when one judges by the way it looks is ridiculous because I've found some completely ugly covers that have been great books and the opposite, but 'On Beauty'?
Anyone can write a book with a story such as this, but understanding what you're writing and knowing HOW to portray what you're writing in a way that it truly makes someone snicker like 'yeah, I know how that is'...that's what does it for me.
To that end she had tried banning television in the early years, and never had a lipstick or a woman's magazine crossed the threshold of the Belsey home to Kiki's knowledge, but these and other precautionary measures had made no difference.
It was in the air, or so it seemed to Kiki, this hatred of women and their bodies - it seeped in with every draught in the house; people brought it home on their shoes, they breathed it in off their newspapers.
Why would you cripple yourself like this?""I like these shoes, OK?
While I did not absolutely hate this book, I really disliked it from the beginning and kept reading in hopes it would redeem itself.
Alas, it did not.
In fact, there really isn't many redeeming qualities in the story or the characters whatsoever.
The book was written with some style, but as far as the storyline and the characters go, the book should have been called On Destruction...which is, as it seems to me to be, where every character was bent on going in their own oblivion.
Furthermore, the colloquialisms in some of the dialogues were off; the scenes as well as the characters fell a little flat.
This was a slow read for me. I'm not actually a particularly cerebral person, so I got bogged down in the parts about academic life. But I enjoyed the people in the story. A lot of them were supremely unlikable, but as was once pointed out to me, you don't necessarily want everyone in your fiction to be likable. Kiki is the character who resonated the most with me. I'll definitely read more by Zadie Smith.
About a third of the way through I wasn't sure I wanted to know any more about the Belsey or the Kipps families so I ended up reading heaps of other books while this sat waiting for me to return. The ending was strong and had a dash of drama. Not quite as good as White Teeth but better than Swing Time. A gifted author, I need to read her other books.
Let's just call it poetic license).The book's angle is a pretty simple one: the reader follows the movements of the various members of the Belsey family, and those they come into contact with, over the course of a year or so, and begins to form an insight into how they interact with the world and the people around them.
In reality, it is so much more than this.The Belsey family - comprising of an African American mother, a Caucasian father and three mixed-race children - all struggle with an identity crisis that centres around a multitude of things including their race, gender and their place in the academic world of Wellington (a thinly veiled Harvard) that they reside in.The complex issues that this novel confronts forced me to confront myself as more than a self-contained entity.
She is not in the academic world, but is perhaps the most emotionally intelligent character.
Her husband Howard is an average-looking white middle-aged man, who struggles with finishing and publishing his academic scholarship and whose style tends to dispute common understandings about the art world.
She also works inredibly hard in her classes (she is a sophomore at the fictional college, Wellington), but does not seem to have any real opinions of her own.
For instance, in the course of three pages we are introduced to a college freshman who was the academic star in her high school who is terrified to open her mouth in Howard's class for fear of saying something stupid.
This was my first Zadie Smith, but she has quite the reputation and she is widely read, so I don't think I need to talk about her writing (excellent), the plot (interesting and original retelling), or the characters (multi-layed, real). I was most interested in what the novel is saying about the academy, about art, and about taste. I look forward to filming a proper video review.
Mas é exatamente desse frenesim que podemos dizer que emana o estilo Zadie Smith, como se o livro fosse uma tela e os personagens pinceladas de tinta, óleo espesso em jogos de misturas, criando um todo que se vai formando ao longo das 500 páginas.O livro deambula entre duas linhas de enredo principais: a relação conflituosa entre dois académicos, Monty, o conservador negro, e Howard, o liberal branco; e a relação de casal entre Howard e Kiki, a sua mulher, negra, na casa dos 110kg, não-académica (enfermeira).
The Maitresse Erzulie“She represents love, beauty, purity, the ideal female and the moon...and she's the mystère of jealousy, vengeance and discord, AND, on the other hand, of love, perpetual help, goodwill, health, beauty and fortune.”The moment in the novel when this painting is discussed by Carlene and Kiki has so many layers, it's hard to really identify them all.
This moment is one of the most moving I've come across in any novel; it's about beauty, something that can't be deconstructed, something that isn't it's parts in isolation, cold on an examination table.
Llama la atención el tono desenfadado de la novela, el aire de comedia que tienen las grandes y pequeñas tragedias que sacuden a sus personajes, y, aunque uno es consciente de la lucidez que la autora demuestra en cada escena, en cada diálogo, en cada comentario, quizás sea esta la razón de que uno termine preguntándose si la novela es en verdad tan brillante como le ha parecido, si no hubiera sido mejor concentrar las balas, y aumentar el calibre, sobre muchos menos objetivos.
It becomes eventually obvious that "On Beauty" is quite aware that a middle-ages professor sleeping with a nubile student is a complete cliché.
But that is not really the point of Smith's story; it's just a set-up to get the readers to look more closely at the way people react to their environment.The very obvious homage to "Howards End" (a book I personally love to bits) works extremely well.
The capacity for empathy is crucial to "Howards End", and it obviously is the corner stone of "On Beauty" as well.
I try to summarize this book for people, and I find that I really can't do it.
The book is about race, poetry, art, Haiti, sex, marriage, college, poverty, wealth, politics, Rembrandt, Mozart's Lacrimosa, rap music, death, and a million other tiny things I've probably forgotten.
It is drizzly, and the wind will blow; hail happens, and there is a breed of Tuesday in January in which time creeps and no light comes and the air is full of water and nobody really loves anybody, but still a decent jumper and a waxen jacket lined with wool is sufficient for every weather England's got to give."
maybe i'm extra critical b/c, in a past life, i spent some time in the spoken word scene, but carl was a shell of an idea rather than an authentic, believable character.
ok, the fat character is sympathetic and fun and smart and good-looking despite her rolls...the thin beautiful character is too often taken merely at face value and people don't make much of an effort to get to know her beyond that...but the reader can't get to know her beyond that b/c smith also isn't interested in her other than for her looks.the good stuff: the father felt genuine and gave an honest look at academic/intellectual pursuits when stagnant.
Zadie Smith picks out bits of human interactions, what goes on in our minds, out of our mouths, that give me pause.
The number of times characters would bump into each other in a large city is downright ridiculous.
In my entire life, I have bumped into one of my brothers downtown exactly twice, over the course of years of haunting the same neighbourhoods, and the rest of my family never.
Still, I have to hand it to Zadie for keeping me entertained to the end, and not being afraid to blow apart the myth of a monolithic African-American experience.
After the huge success and critical acclaim for Zadie Smith's 'White Teeth' (deservedly so) and the intriguing strangeness of 'Autograph Man' - we had 'On Beauty' which at the time didn't garner quite the same level of critical acclaim, indeed some reviewers found the novel significantly lacking in comparison to Smiths' preceding novels.Whilst 'On Beauty' may well not be Smith at her finest (see 'White Teeth' and 'Swing Time') it is certainly a very strong novel.
'On Beauty' - as the title suggests looks at issues of appearance, race, beauty, identity and class, and does so with great dexterity and accomplishment.
