https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3117754-dostoevsky
دستويفسكي أعظم ميتافيزيقي أنجبته روسيا على لسان نيقولا، و أعظم مفكر روسي بالتأكيد. واضح جدًا تأثر نيقولا و إعجابه الشديد فيه بحيث أفرد كتاب كامل يتناول دستويفسكي، كان معني و منغمس في الإله الحرية والشر ومصير الانسان، تطرق الكتاب لكل ما تطرقت له أعماله و أشار بيد خفية إلى مقارنة مابين دستويفسكي و تولستوي بالقول أن الأخير قد اخترع دينًا جديدًا و قام بتوجيه النقد للمسيحية أما دستويفسكي كان وافيا و مخلصا للمسيح.. هممم أعجبني كثير دسم و مثري وأشعر أن الريڤيو الي كتبته مش لائق به أبدًا..
Però sulle cose importanti centra il punto: sul ruolo della libertà, del male, di Dio si esprime in questo saggio più che una semplice opinione convincente.
Non è un lusso, questo, è il pane quotidiano.Ancora più urgente si fa la riflessione su questi temi se si pensa alla data e al luogo posti a chiusura della prefazione: Mosca, 1921.
Ragionare sui grandi temi dostoevskiani e smascherare così la dannosità della soluzione socialista (e di quella tolstoiana) in un contesto del genere vuol dire davvero difendere con le unghie e con i denti quello in cui si crede (Berdjaev è stato costretto all'espatrio, segno che le idee di Dostoevskij minano seriamente i totalitarismi, ma questo si sapeva).
Ideile trăiesc la el o viaţă organică, au soarta lor inevitabil umană, iar această viaţă este dinamică, nu are nimic static, nu e pasivă, osificată.
Ideile sale nu sunt categorii îngheţate, statice, ci torente pârjolitoare.
În idee este concentrată şi ascunsă energia distrugătoare a dinamitei, iar Dostoievski arată cum exploziile ideilor distrug şi aduc moartea.
Totodată, în idee este concentrată şi ascunsă energia regeneratoare şi izbăvitoare.
Creaţia lui Dostoievski este un adevărat ospăţ al cugetării.
Iar acei care refuză să ia parte la acest ospăţ, bazaţi pe faptul că în reflecţiile sale sceptice bănuiesc valori comune ale gândului şi ideii, sunt sortiţi la o existenţă tristă, săracă, ajung în pragul inaniţiei spirituale.
As a journalist who covers the criminal courts, I've interviewed enough murderers and their victims' grieving families to know that suffering breaks most people, not betters them.But Berdyaek showed me the depth that Dostoevsky's take on suffering has:"Only an immature or enslaved mind would deduce from Dostoevsky's thesis that we must choose to follow the path of wickedness in order to enrich our consciousness and profit from a new experience.
توقفت في فصل4 سأعود أكيد لثراء الكتاب و مقارنته بين الأدب ليو و ادب دوستويفسكي.
Berdayev's exegesis of Dostoyevsky's works confirmed a suspicion that I already had before knowing anything about the man: his faith manifests itself powerfully in his works, though the degree of permeation was at least partially unintentional if not subconscious.
Anyway, I know I won't proceed reading the Dostoyevsky canon in the same way as before, I will get much more out of it now.I also have a feeling that this will not--indeed probably cannot--be the last time I open this book.
ففى هذيانات "إيفان" ظهر رجل هو ضد للمسيح، وهو رجل له روح محبة للبشر، وله رسالة روحية تشبه رسالة المسيح، ولكنه يرى أن المسيح حمّل الناس آلاما أكبر منهم، ودافعه فى رسالته كان الغرور، لقد نمى غرور الروح البشرية للنخبة، وفى المقابل ترك ملايين البشر للشر.
وهكذا ظهرت الحقيقة الإلهية إلى العالم، مهينة ممزقة، مصلوبة بواسطة قوى هذا العالم، غير أن حرية الروح توطدت بهذه الواقعة نفسها.
إنه شخصى بالكامل، وبالتالى تحقق الشخصية يحمل بداخله بذور للشر والازدواجية، والطغيان البشرى الذى قد ينتهى إلى الانحلال وعبودية الروح.
أى أن الروح لكى تتحقق عبر الشخصية، يجب ان تسير فى مسار حر يحمل مخاطرة تدمير نفسه ونفى أهدافه.
It is very important to Berdyaev that Ivan Karamazov, for example, not "have the last word." He spends, however, no time at all on Bobok or the death of Christ in The Idiot (nor does he seems to really understand that work's protagonist, Prince Myshkin).
This is Berdyaev's personal interpretation of the spiritual and philosophical thought of Dostoevsky.
He pursues what he considers the "enigma" of Dostoevsky's thought.
It is in his "pathos"--an "unprecedented regard for man and his destiny" that Berdyaev places the focus of the work.
By considering this aspect as central to Dostoevsky's creativity he provides a rich and thoughtful account of Dostoevsky's literary corpus.
Seeing the central relationships of his characters in this light Berdyaev argues provides an important means for understanding Dostoevsky as a whole.
It is a fascinating account and should prove useful to those studying the thought of Fyodor Dostoevsky.
(Şiir gibi bir inceleme)Başlıklar:Ruh,İnsan,Özgürlük,Kötülük,Aşk,Sosyalizm,Rusya,İsaYöntem:''Amacım yazın tarihine geçecek bir deneme yazmak değil,Dostoyevski'nin yaşam öyküsünü kaleme almak da değil.Amacım ne onu betimlemek,ne de yazınsal bir eleştiri konusu yapmaktır.Konuyu psikolojik açıdan ele alacak,ya da psikolojik düzeyde sonuçlara varacak da değilim.Hayır,üstlendiğim görev bambaşka.Dostoyevski'nin ruhsal yapısını açmak;evreni nasıl algılıyordu derinlerine inmek.Yöntemini,dünyaya bakışını bir bütün olarak ,sezgisel bir yaklaşımla bu öğelerle yeniden kurmak istiyorum.'' N.A.BerdyaevHakkında:Dostoyevski; insan yaratılışı üzerinde deneyler yapan bir antropolog
يؤكد برديائيف أن دوستويفسكي لعب دورا حاسما في حياته الروحية، وكما يقول: «تلقيت منه - ولما زلت مراهقا - ما يشبه التطعيم، وأثار فيّ من الحماسة والنشوة ما لم يثره كاتب أو فيلسوف آخر، وكنت في كل مراحل حياتي أشطر الناس قسمين: أولئك الذين تأثروا بروح دوستويفسكي، وأولئك الذين كانوا عن هذه الروح غرباء، وإذا كانت المشكلات الفلسفية قد تمثلت لوعيي في وقت مبكر جدا، فما ذلك إلا بفضل تلك «الأسئلة اللعينة» التي أثارها دوستويفسكي بكل تأكيد.انا من اولئك الذين تأثروا بروح دوستويفسكي♥️
نيقولا بيرديائيف فيلسوف ديني وسياسي روسي، يعتبر أحد أهم رواد الفلسفة الوجودية المسيحية. شارك في حركة التجديد الروسي وهى حركة دينية النزعة، أسهم في حركة إصلاح وتجديد الكنيسة الروسية. يعد كتابه "رؤية دوستويفسكي للعالم" واحداً من أهم المراجع وأبرزها في دراسة أعمال دوستويفسكي الأدبية وكيف أثّرت أفكاره في روسيا بشكل خاص وأوروبا بشكل عام.
This is an excellent book of insights on how Dostoevsky thought. I am currently reading Crime and Punishment, and this book will help me finish it with a new perspective of its author.
And while Berdyaev digs into the heart of Dostoevsky's faith, he comes to taint it through his own christian beliefs.
None of this is to speak ill of Dostoevsky - for his faith was one that was in touch with the darkness of the divine.
He saw into the depths of the endless night, in the heart of man, and he affirmed the groundlessness of the divine.
Berdyaev's need for an end in light, grounded in the guarantee of resurrection, is his shortcoming - he misses the heights upon which Dostoevsky stands.(This summit is also an abyss, and it is from this that Berdyaev shys away, unable to withstand its groundless rending.)
لم أكمله، إلا أنه بعيد عن المتعة وعن ما يتصوره القارئ قبل أن يبدأ
francezii sunt dogmatici sau sceptici""o oarecare isterie metafizica a sufletului rus, inclinatia catre obsesional si posedare.""In creatia sa au loc eruptii ale vulcanilor subpamanteni ai spiritului omenesc.""Profunzimea firii omenesti si limitele ei se urmaresc si se dezvaluie in alienare, nu in stare de sanatate, in crima, nu in legalitate, in stihia noptii si a subconstientului, nu in existenta cotidiana sau in lumina dionisiaca.""Dostoievski se adreseaza celor in devenire.""Creatia lui Tolstoi este apolinica.
Pe Dostoievski nu-l chinuie atat tema lui Dumnezeu, cat cea privind omul si soarta sa, il framanta misterul spiritului.
The first part makes the point that Dostoevsky writes from a Christian point of view, with a strong stress on human freedom.
So far it seems to make a lot of sense, and makes sense of Dostoevsky's novels -- the ones I have read, anyway.
Nowadays we hear quite a bit about American Exceptionalism, and at times in the book Berdyaev seems to be preaching a kind of Russian exceptionalism.
One gathers that the Russian mind is apocalyptic, but it's never quite clear in what way, though at times the language seems to be over-hyped: "the spiritual warp of Dostoievsky's disciples was different.
Berdyaev is definitely biased in support of Dostoevsky (and antagonistic against Tolstoy), but he critiques as well as praises where these are due in Dostoevsky' s thinking and writing.
Berdyaev speaks truly of the Russian divide though, those with the Christian-Russian spirit within them are either drawn towards Tolstoy or Dostoevsky and neither can understand the other.
I've always leaned more towards the Tolstoy side of things (with his moralism) rather than Dostoevsky (and his Apocalyptic Mysticism), but this book has definitely given me the great desire to read the last two Dostoevsky (Brothers Karamazov and Raw Youth)
All of my discontents and disagreements were turned into sheer anger when I saw Berdyaev claiming the crime of Raskolnikov was a "pure experiment".NO. IT'S NOT. THIS IS FALSIFYING DOSTOYEVSKY AND THIS IS OUTRAGEOUS.Will elaborate more on this later this month.
