https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/554253.Letters_from_Iceland
L'idea di scrivere m'è venuta oggi(amo specificare tempo e luogo); l'autobus era nel deserto, sulla strada da Mothrudalur a qualche altro luogo; lacrime scorrevano sul mio volto bruciante: ad Akureyri m'ero preso un tremendo raffreddore, il pranzo ritardava e la vita era dolore. Il professor Housman fu il primo a cui pensai di dire in stampa quanto stimolantisono i piccoli mali da cui l'uomo è afflitto, i raffreddori, i mal di testa, i dolorison creativi; così non è azzardato l'affermare che più d'una lirica è dovuta in precedenza non al cuore spezzato d'un amante, all'influenza.
I thought Hetty's letters to Nancy were very funny.Bits I liked:"Every exciting letter has enclosures,""The old woman confessing: 'He that I loved theBest, to him I was the worst.'""The songs of jazz have told us of a moon countryAnd we like to dream of a heat which is never sultry,Melons to eat, champagne to drink, and a lazyMusic hour by hour depetalling the daisy.""The Borg is called a first-class hotel but is not the kind of thing you like if you like that kind of thing: still it is the only place where you can get a drink.""There is a phrase-book for those who find that kind of thing any use, and for the conscientious there is Zoega's English-Icelandic Dictionary (expensive and full of non-existent English words)""In the larger hotels in Reykjavik you will of course get ordinary European food, but in the farms you will only get what there is, which is on the whole rather peculiar.""Soups: Many of these are sweet and very unfortunate.
Letters from Iceland offers tourism of the unknown, but also tourism of the past--a trip through a western Europe that doesn't exist anymore.
The sun was out; in the bay, surrounded by buoys and gulls, were the semi-submerged bodies of five dead whales: and down the slip-way ran a constant stream of blood, staining the water a deep red for a distance of fifty yards.
The body remained alone in the sun, the flesh still steaming a little.
Quietly glorious. I've been looking for a way to anchor Auden; this was perfect.
Five stars for the poetry.Seven stars for 'Last will and testament'.Two stars for the letters of Hetty to Nancy, which I sadly could not understand nor appreciate.Sixteen stars for Iceland.
Auden's voice, especially, is charming, though MacNeice's final poem is wonderful.
While I read this in preparation for a trip to Iceland, it's actually a good read for any interested in seeing Europe (and England) at a very particular moment between wars, with colonialism not quite over and the depression hitting the world hard.
Auden and MacNeice, two intellectuals, have an interesting perspective on this, distanced as they are both physically and mentally from the struggle.
Auden's preface, written thirty years after the book's publication, is particularly poignant, and the book overall is charming and also deeply telling.
Auden in IJslandAuden reisde in 1936 door IJsland met de schrijver Louis MacNeice. Hij schreef over deze reis het werk 'Brieven uit IJsland'. Het is een briljante en eigenzinnige collage van brieven, gedichten (aan Byron), reisimpressies, literaire beschouwingen en anekdotes. Een aanrader voor degene die a. zonder dit boek te kennen naar IJsland is geweest b. er ooit naar toe wil gaan of c. liever Laxness leest en thuisblijft.
Beautiful, fresh and funny.

I remember enjoying this as a teenager but remembered little of the detail, apart from the poem in the style of Byron's Don Juan.
This is far from being a conventional travel book but somehow, through the poems, notes and letters both fictional and presumably genuine you do get a sense of Iceland as seen by English visitors in the 1930s, with a bit of the wider context of the events of the 1930s too.
The letters from Hetty to Nancy are particularly funny.
Amusing but probably not quite what people expected from a travel book, if that's what it is!
Quite the odd travel book. Auden and MacNeice traverse Iceland in 1936, commenting on the people and culture they encounter. Iceland has changed so much since then that it seems at times they are they are travelling in the 19th century rather than on the eve of WWII. Their travelogue is interspersed with lengthy poems by the authors, letters to other people, as well as an entertaining anthology of selections from other visitors' observations of Iceland. It's a remarkable book in many respects, but I didn't find myself as captivated as I had anticipated.
(...) Esta carta no tendrá mucho que ver con Islandia, y será más bien una descripción del efecto que produce viajar por países lejanos, lo cual debería estimular una reflexión desde fuera sobre el pasado y la cultura de uno.” (p.
157)Con esto ya está dicho: el libro tiene poco que ver con Islandia y mucho con ese “ellos mismos” que tan a las claras comenta, con la autosuficiencia británica y su visión de los hoteles de tercera categoría, comidas frías, lugares “decentes”, etc.
Auden provided about two-thirds of the pieces including a lengthy (and rather dull) epic poem called a "Letter to Lord Byron." Louis MacNeice provided the remaining third of the text.My favorite parts of the book were the notes for tourists which includes practical advice on what to pack an who to dress, warnings about the food an transportation.
The descriptions of the Icelandic traditions taken from a British point of view made for a humorous comparison with the dwarves in Pratchett's discworld novels; I was constantly reminded of Carrot.My all time favorite piece of the book was a satiric letter "Hetty to Nancy" by MacNeice.
This is a strange little book but I did enjoy it.
On the upside I really liked the letters to Byron and the strange little story about the women who join up with a girls school on their Icelandic tour.
It didn't exactly teach me much about Iceland as despite the fact it is nominally a travel book, it is almost 80 years out of date and not gives no useful guidance.
It did give me a strange sense of the time Auden spent there though which is worth reading and I'm glad I read it before my trip.
An enjoyable and occasionally very witty read.
It's a shame Auden didn't really seem to have a lot of fun, or to like Iceland all that well.
Since it was his love of Norse literature in part that drew him to Iceland, it would have been nice if he'd given some idea of how it felt to be in the land where the events took place, whether it was disappointment or whether there was some satisfaction in the pilgrimage.
I think overall from inference Iceland was a disappointment to Auden.
A rambling but user-friendly blend of narrative, epistolary, commentary and poetry, the book takes one back to a time before blogs and interminable Facebook photo albums and demonstrates how experience and observation can be skillfully wielded by artists into the sublime and aesthetic, regardless of topic.
I primarily picked this book up in order to grasp the full context of Auden's poem to Lord Byron, but the text, photos, maps and assorted details of his and Macniece's trip left me pleasantly lost for days.
If only someone like, say, Marilynne Robinson wrote like this and took a trip to Sicily or something.
i had to wait about four months to finally get a copy of this from the nypl. if you try to buy a copy online it's like 80 dollars. my favorite parts were about the icelandic diet. i really did like how lazy and simple this book was but probably for this reason i couldn't propel myself through the second half. probably just more of the same anyway.
In 1936 poets WH Auden and Louis MacNeice travelled together to Iceland and documented their travels in prose, poetry and imagined letters. Humorous, entertaining and and insight into the place and the time.
In Auden's words,I like to walk, but not to walk too far.I also like green plains where cattle are, And trees and rivers, and shall always quarrel With those who think that rivers are immoral.
A fun, and in a few places also a little absurd, "travel book", written by poets W.H. Auden and Louis MacNeice in 1936, political comments certainly not excluded. My favourite is Auden's long poetic "Letter to Lord Byron".
2 poets on ponyback through the 'geysirs' in 1936 (with nazis scouting the place for the future themepark of the ur-reich) - auden is too funny, esp when writing in the voice of a schoolmistress to her beloved hetty in greece, or regaling his idol byron a la byron....
Odd but entertaining, I much preferred the prose to the poetry.
My review can be found here: https://theliterarysisters.wordpress....
Auden and MacNeice were initially unsure how to write this. They finally adopted the voices of two British schoolgirls on holiday and wrote the entire thing in very fruity tones. Quite amusing.
Super-love these writers and super-love letters and super-love travel. Read if you enjoyed Travels with Charley by Steinbeck!
If I could only get my paws on this book, what a happy girl I'd be.
This book made me incredibly happy. Poetry, history, satire and Iceland: everything a bored student needs and more.
