https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/467032.The_Bad_Seed
Evil children still make an appearance in movies and novels, never completely going out of style, and of course, are not solely confined to the horror or thriller categories.
The deeper Christine researches the mind of murderers, especially female serial killers, she begins to trace her own family tree, which reveals a horrible, shocking truth.
This is a novel that set a president, a trend-setter, and helped spawn an entire trope, both in books and movies, featuring sinister, evil children.
But, more importantly, we are reminded that looks can be deceiving, that evil has many faces, and despite their cherubic little faces and adorable giggles, even children can not be presumed innocent.
It seemed to her suddenly that violence was an inescapable factor of the heart, perhaps the most important factor of all - an ineradicable thing that lay, like a bad seed, behind kindness, behind compassion, behind the embrace of love itself.
A true thriller from yesteryear, The Bad Seed is the story of a child serial killer.
But then terrible things begin to happen and it is odd that Rhoda always happens to be right there.
Positively chilling, The Bad Seed is an intelligent, spine tingling thriller that withstands well the test of time.
...the monsters of real life usually looked and behaved in a more normal manner than their actually normal brothers and sisters; they presented a more convincing picture of virtue than virtue presented of itself - just as the wax rosebud or the plastic peach seemed more perfect to the eye, more what the mind thought a rose-bud or a peach should be, than the imperfect original from which it had been modelled.  William March's classic thriller focuses on a child killer - the pristine Rhoda Penmar
...the monsters of real life usually looked and behaved in a more normal manner than their actually normal brothers and sisters; they presented a more convincing picture of virtue than virtue presented of itself - just as the wax rosebud or the plastic peach seemed more perfect to the eye, more what the mind thought a rose-bud or a peach should be, than the imperfect original from which it had been modelled.
As truth is slowly revealed, Mrs. Penmark becomes more and more suspicious of her daughter's cold, calculating ways.
She is advised in many ways, but above all to "keep the tension high".
Sometimes it lay deeply hidden, sometimes it lay close to the surface; but always it was there, ready to appear, under the right conditions, in all its irrational dreadfulness.”It's amazing to think this book is almost 60 years old - it was definitely a chilling and thought-provoking story for it's time, spawning at least two film adaptions.
The neighbors in the apartment of major characters - some there to admire little Rhoda, the janitor who keeps teasing her and discovers for himself how horrible the child really is, and convenient writers on serial killers and past crimes who help lead Christine conveniently on the right paths.A slower pace isn't a crutch for the book since the psychological dread basically coats the pages.
A verdade é que eu não consigo pensar em nada pra mudar.
Acho que 4,5 estrelas seria o ideal, porque eu terminei com uma sensação de que queria um pouquinho mais de profundidade na história.
Eu me peguei pensando que já li/vi essa história antes, mas precisa se levar em consideração que o livro é de 1954!!
Com certeza pra essa época foi inovador.
Eu não sabia de torcia contra ou a favor dela, porque queria ver badalos e mortes.Foi uma surpresa até.
Fiquei com medo de ficar entediado, de ser muito abstrato, mas é intrigante 100% do tempo e eu queria desesperadamente saber o fim.
Most of the book is spent in the company of Rhoda’s insufferable mother, Christine, a prime candidate for the most stupid, gormless twit in all literature, who putters about wringing her hands wondering if her kid’s evil enough to kill.
There’s nothing worse than waiting for the characters in the story to catch up to what the reader already knows, especially when that’s all that’s going on!
After the opening murder, a moronic pedo janitor taunts Rhoda that he knows she killed that kid and that he’s gonna blackmail her.
5 Oh, the Memories it Brings Back Stars * * * * * Spoiler FreeThis book and the movie has a huge place in my heart...no, not because of an identification with the characters....but due to childhood memory of my sister being in Forensics during high school.My sister is 4 years older than me and was a drama student.
As a family we would go to the tournaments and watch her become Rhoda Penmark, as sickly sweet and then evil bit by bit...and many times she won first place with her performance.
one of the evilest books i've ever readthe author was suffered by mental disorder, was that evil too?i know he was not kurt cobain, he was not a clam and i know this book was not nirvana, that this book was not the pearl that derived from his pain, which was created within the clamdid he got possessed?
i just couldn't read this all, i don't mean the pages, i mean the things further from the pages of those i can't describe1954, a great year in literary history.
in that year, The Lord of the Rings got issued, so did Lord of the Flies and I AM LEGEND, and this book as well
This creepy 1954 classic tale of the evil Rhoda Penmark must have been quite a shocker in its day, and IMHO still is today. I was hardly one-third of the way into the story, and I already wanted to ring the little monster's neck and run and hide from the repulsive handyman! Not the ending I hoped for, but it definitely added to the creep-factor of the book. (hope to track down the movie) Update: August 2,2014 OMGOSH! I do not know how I missed this excellent horror flick, and I must admit I thou
This creepy 1954 classic tale of the evil Rhoda Penmark must have been quite a shocker in its day, and IMHO still is today.
Not the ending I hoped for, but it definitely added to the creep-factor of the book.
(hope to track down the movie)
I do not know how I missed this excellent horror flick, and I must admit I thought it much creepier than the book, but best of all is the shockingly different (and better) ending.
If you have only read the book, be sure to see the movie too!
I think this book was ahead of its time since it was published in 1954 and shows an 8 y.o. girl who was born a serial killer. I found the text well built and quite interesting. I loved the reading. I read this book in my native language, because my English knowledge is yet in development.
So i'm thinking of course people are going to be intrigued, of course they're going to hail the book as some sort of landmark.
I went into this book thinking (naively, in hindsight) that this book would be about delving into the mind of a child psychopath.
So in essence through out the book, you mostly have this sort of thing going on:Character: yammering on bla bla blaMrs Penmark: (thinking to herself) Rhoda might be a killer..
i can't report her she's my childCharacter: bla bla blaMrs Penmark : (thinking to herself) Rhoda might be a killer..
Young Rhoda presents as a cute, delightful and innocent child but believe me she also has an extremely evil side and she is a killer.
It is really hard to try to comprehend what this child does and brings up the old age question, 'can someone be born evil'?.
The book is full of tension and suspence, I spent the whole time having to remind myself that the crimes committed here are that of a child.
Rhoda's father spends a lot of time working away but her mother is well aware of what her daughter is but it torn between protecting her child or turning to the police for help.
Rhoda Penmark, the eight-year-old serial killer, is quite chilling and convincing given what we now know about the psychopathic personality profile.
He merely showed how the mother, Christine Penmark, decided on that explanation for her daughter's behavior.The distracting and unnecessary chatter and Freud-speak from the Monica Breedlove character weakens the novel and prevents me from giving it a higher rating.
This was my second reading of the book.
Supposedly the filmmakers took the liberty of giving it a happy ending.
I just remember the creepy and convincing performance of the girl (Patty McCormack?) who played Rhoda Penmark.
I have to say that Rhoda in "The Bad Seed" would have wiped out that character without breaking a sweat."The Bad Seed" is about a mother (Christine) at home waiting for her husband and realizing that her daughter (Rhoda) is not like the other boys and girls.
Christine's increasing horror at who her daughter really is was interesting to read.
I just think with her going back and forth to the true crime writer to keep getting his opinions about a hypothetical which we readers realize is not a hypothetical was boring.
A timeless psychological thriller, The Bad Seed has been adapted into several films including the 1956 original, a 1989 remake, a 1993 altered modern version of the story called The Good Son and a low-budget sequel to the original story made in 1995 called Mommy (produced by Troma Movies).
Each of these films has established its own cult status, but it was a wonderfully chilling and nostalgic experience to read the book that started it all.
March combines superficial innocence with inner evil and corruption in the form of the book's main character.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/What would you do if you suspect your child isn’t simply odd, but might just be a serial killer?
If I didn’t already know, there is no way I would have guessed this book to be 60 years old.
A chilling thriller about Rhoda Penmark and how she always makes sure to get whatever her little heart desires.
If you like tales of the macabre that keep you on the edge of your seat up to the last page, put this classic on your to-read list.Buddy read with Mitchell the Book Boar, who thought this selection was simply hilarious.
I always try to discover the Goth elements within beloved horror classics.
There is but a few of them, and so I do this in order to find the true American thread: that of Gothic Horror, found from New World horror fables to Hawthorne; from Poe to Norman Bates.
What makes them American, what makes them monstrous?
Why are they still relevant?
For tea ladies to have a book club, for that book to be about a murderous imp!
Especially in idyllic America.The best surprises: Horrific anecdotes of bloody murder; the picture of a matriarch gettin' roasted in the electric chair.
This is a charming exposé of a " darling little girl" who is totally misunderstood!
( Taking something that doesn't belong to you, isn't really stealing, it's just getting what you want.) Rules don't apply to this little moppet, she's so adorable that she should be able to break any rules, or perhaps your neck should she choose to do so.Misunderstood, and picked on because she is so pretty, this poor little beauty has no other recourse but to let everyone know that she is the one who has total control over their life, in every way!Be afraid....be very afraid....
While the film concentrates on the evil and murderous little girl and her mother, the book goes into considerable detail about the mother’s own childhood and her own mother, and the true significance of the title becomes much plainer.
Both movie and novel are wonderful examples of 1950s American paranoia, but this is not paranoia about communists under the bed, this is paranoia that is much more amusing – it’s not communists who must be feared, but America’s own children.
Any one of them could be a deadly psychopath, and there’s no way of telling – the most dangerous ones of all look like the sweetest and most innocent little kids you could ever imagine.
Bad things happen when Rhoda doesn't get what she wants, what she feels she is entitled to.
This novel raises the issue as to the inheritance of "evil".The character of Rhoda is well written, quite fascinating but it is her mother Christine whose dawning horror of the malevolence apparent in Rhoda that brings the story together.This novel sent a few chills up my spine when reading.
Christine's apprehension around Rhoda when she had realised the truth concerning her daughter, her denial and the decision she felt she must take to ultimately protect Rhoda.A chilling novel about a pretty little girl, "when she was good she was very very good and when she was bad she was horrid."
História rápida, angustiante, pessoal. Gostei do desenrolar, dos personagens e principalmente do final. Com personagens bem característicos, bem "forçados" eu até diria, o autor construiu uma trama problemática, desconfortável. Muito bom <3
"What will you give me if I give you a basket of kisses?"  How about a friendly shove off the stairs? Creepy little child, but an enjoyable read! Made me want to put some red lip stick on and get a blunt bang cut.
Even today, parts of William March's story of little Rhoda Penmark have a chilling effect on the reader, perhaps even more then if the story had been more graphic in nature.March's prose is spare, which works well in highlighting the turmoil and tension created by the story of a child born bad.The narrative isn't from the child herself, but from her mother Christine, who slowly uncovers her own demons along the way.
The simple structure and subtle menace throughout make this a book worth reading when you're in the mood for thinking about the human mind and how it can be warped through either nature or nurture.
Rhoda is a very believable serial killer, even if she is only eight years old. March gives her a naive sort of scheme-y-ness--she hasn't yet matured as killers go. The novel is dated in the most marvelous ways, reflecting mid-century theories of mental illness and sociopathy. It even has a character who was psychoanalyzed by Freud himself. I loved the conversations. I loved the journey of Rhoda's mother Christine, from slight unease to absolute certainty that her daughter is a murderer. Read it.
A really well written book about an evil child - I think it's safe to say that without spoilers considering title and book cover.If you love a good nature versus nurture conundrum then yay!The characters worked really well and the predictability did not take anything away from the book.
I am glad this was a book club read or I would have never experienced this book. It was thrilling and interesting and creepy. It was somewhat predictable and I wasn't biting my nails but I wasn't reading this in 1954. If I had read this back then I would be shocked and running to my neighbors and shoving the book at them and demanding them to read it. The ending is soooo good!
That is entirely possible, judging by how I ended up only sort-of finishing the book (more on that later).The main characters are an increasingly distressed mother named Christine, and her cunning and monstrous offspring, Rhoda.
But in fact, sometimes murderers just happen, even in the nicest of families.March does a fine job of plucking apart the sticky strands of Christine’s complicated web of feelings about her only child.
And I just couldn’t bear to read the dialogue that I imagined would take place in the final scene between mother and child.
Another early March quote starts to get to the heart of The Bad Seed, and the way March really saw us:"I have never ceased to wonder at the thing we call human nature, with its times of beauty and its times of filthiness, or at the level of calm stupidity that lies in between the two."March was one of those deeply flawed types he reveals in this story.
Well here it is: reason #154 to not have children. This book was absolutely horrifying. No monsters, no ghosts, no haunted houses. Just a beautiful little girl who is a complete and total psychopath. And possibly a murderess. Probably. Most likely. Her mother Christine's inner turmoil and struggle is so real. This is a wonderfully written tale.
First a caveat - read the book before you see the movie (the 54 version is the only movies to see) or the play.
I was way too familiar with the movie for the book to have an emotional effect on me.
The book's an easy 1 day read.
This is largely a psychological horror.
Though some have suggested the psychology is out-dated, I think it quite current, especially given the turn-about that's occurred in the nature-nurture questions.
In any case I don't think it requires one to put themselves back in 1954 to "get it".7 fo 10 stars
