https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52263.SCUM_Manifesto
I, like every man, know deep down that I'm a worthless piece of shit.
Especially since Solanas has lots of (really offensive) shit to say about women, especially women who like fucking dudes ("raving sex maniacs" is a very mild example).
Regardless of whether or not Solanas believed everything she wrote, the manifesto is an interesting reversal of exactly the kind of shit men have been saying about women for fucking ever.
But, for the short time you spend reading this book fuck that shit and forget about it and read the book as the valuable Swift-like satire it indeed amounts to.
I, walking dildo and worthless piece of shit, temporarily salute you, Solanas.
The SCUM Manifesto is important to me because it represents every "irrational" thought I've had when I've been angry and, due to both rage and social constraints placed around the proper expression of women's emotion, unable to express them.
In The SCUM Manifesto , these thoughts are presented as justified and even logical.
When I read The SCUM Manifesto, I feel legitimized.
This is why I don't understand the manifesto as hyperbole or satire, nor do I feel entirely comfortable saying that the text represents the author's "true beliefs." The thoughts and sentiments expressed within take refuge in their audacity.
When I got to campus, my roommate was athletic and wealthy and attractive, all of which was terrifying, so I immediately left my belongings piled on my bunk and made a hasty departure, returning to the dorm only intermittently throughout the semester whenever my smelliness began to seriously encroach on my own respiration.
In the paper was an ad that proclaimed "free records", being given away at the college radio station.
After failing to relocate the commuter lot, where my second box of records was no doubt being preyed upon by skinheads, I found myself in the bookstore, where I immediately felt at ease.
Gotta love this book. It's so right on and so way off. It's beautiful in theory and tragic in reality.
Solanas is brilliantly witty, and for those scardey cat, humorless males that say "but she tried to kill someone!" the answer to that is- so did Norman Mailer.
Althusser...I'm sure the list goes on of "great artists" and writers who have treated the women in their lives like specks of fecal matter...Of course this book will not appeal to the male identifiers and wussy little daddy's girls who mistakenly think that the patriarchy benefits them in some way, but they'll find out the hard way...Like when they turn 50 or thereabouts...Tap into your justified rage now and let Solanas bring you a few good laughs...
By proposing an idea so ridiculous, so genocidal and violent, so stereotyping and repulsive, the author asks questions about the silent limitations and gilded cages of women in the mid-20th century.
I was asked if any man had ever advocated such violence against women.
Of course any discussion of the book will invariably tends towards the author's own violent illness and shooting of Andy Warhol.
Again, though I cannot advocate the violence in this text or the author's own actions, the book is a cautionary reminder of how political fantasies of revenge can degrade into murder.
Hey, I wrote a book. How can I get this published? Nobody will touch it? What if I tried to kill a famous person? Hello fame!
I'm reading this, as a man of course, and cheering on Solanas' bad-ass, hilarious, blunt-force-trauma, withering, genocidal rant against men.
(Yes, it is a crude equation -- I'm not in danger -- but you get my drift).But seriously, this manifesto -- a fuck-load more fun than Marx's "Communist Manifesto" -- half makes me want to march into the mountain to my demise like the rat I am (being male), led by the Pied Piper's siren-song of pussy.This magnificently breathless, radical feminist tirade -- filled with contradictions, sweeping generalizations, anti-elitism, paranoia and more -- pretty much rocks!
But seriously, she does pin down a lot of the insecurities and drives for control that have fucked up the world under the domination of men.
cute book, and a handy guide for getting rid of some of these annoying guys crowding up the planet. valerie solanas is adorable!
We know that “Great Art” is great because male authorities have told us so, and we can’t claim otherwise, as only those with exquisite sensitivities far superior to ours can perceive and appreciate greatness, the proof of their superior sensitivity being that they appreciate the slop they appreciate.But on the other hand—and this is a dirty fallacy of a hand—it is hard for me to take this tract as a truly well-executed work of subversive feminist satire, considering Solanas’ sad and disturbing personal history of sexual abuse and mental illness, plus her proclivity for shooting pop-art icons named Andy Warhol for no particular reason.
Sanıyorum hayatımda okuduğum en ilginç biyografi Valerie Solanas'a ait olandı. Vay be, dedim okurken.Manifestoya gelecek olursak,Bir yandan inanılmaz öngörülü (dediklerinin belli bir kısmını şu an yaşıyoruz), diğer yandan başka yerde kolay kolay okuyamayacağım türden dürüst, açık ve şiddetli. Her fikrine katılmak zorunda değil insan, fakat böyle bir zihne temas etmeden geçmemeli.Yıldız vermeyi bu eserde manasız buldum. Son olarak, çeviri ve editörlük harikaydı.
Radikal, net ve acımasızdı. Yazarı, soğukkanlılığı için, binlerce kez tebrik etmek gerekir.
Thus is Valerie Solanas' magnum opus - SCUM (Society for Cutting Up Men) Manifesto - a feminist classic from the revolutionary change of the '60s, in which she penned her edgy, radical, brilliant thoughts and ideas, namely the purging from the earth the scourge of all of the world's and society's ills - M E N!
SCUM Manifesto is a one woman battle cry that roars LOUDLY in its beliefs and sheer audaciousness in what should be done to reinstute women to their rightful place in the hierarchy of society.
Overall, I found "SCUM" to be a raucously thrilling read.
Erkeğin uğursuz bir Midas dokunuşu vardır - neye dokunsa boka çevrilir. Şu ufak alıntı dahi Solanas'ın kafasındakiler hakkında bir fikir verebilir aslında hepimize... O deli değil. Kesinlikle değil, sadece yaşamış zeki bir insan. Zaten deli yaftası yemişlerin çoğu bizden akıllı olduğu için delidir. Bir erkeğe hayvan demek ona iltifat etmektir; o bir makine, yürüyen bir vibratördür. Ayrılıkçı bir feminist olan bu kadının önsöz de bahsedilmiş hayat hikayesini (Wikipedia da okuyabileceğinizden çok
Ayrılıkçı bir feminist olan bu kadının önsöz de bahsedilmiş hayat hikayesini (Wikipedia da okuyabileceğinizden çok daha fazlası var) okuyana kadar deli saçmasından öte bir şey olmadığı kanısındaydım.
Eril, biyolojik bir kazadır: Y (eril) geni tamamlanmamış bir X (dişi) genidir yani tamamlanmamış bir kromozomlar serisidir.
Başka bir deyişle eril eksik bir dişidir, daha gen aşamasında yaşamına son verilmiş, ayaklı bir kürtaj.
Neden gelecek nesiller olsun?
Bizi takip edecek bir genç nesil olmaması neden umurumuzda olsun ki?
Ama unutmamak gerek, Solanas'ın dediği gibi "SCUM bir ruh halidir." ve bu düşüncelerde bu kadının ruh haliydi...
This 50-page anti-male screed by the woman most famous for shooting Andy Warhol is, well, kind of hard to read.
It's inconceivable that all the people of the world would work together towards Solanas's idea of the common good.
(Of course, I suppose Solanas would expect men to take care of this.) Third, old age is not a disease, and scientists do not hold the secret to immortality.
So in short, while this was a reasonably entertaining read in parts purely for the novelty factor, it's not something I would recommend.
the reviews for this alone are priceless. wow, a dude crying over someone not representing him accurately in media, wonder how that must feel... also, derailing with stuff like "what if this was about women instead" is irrelevant because you can't seriously think that that has never been done before (and was mostly met with a surprising lack of outrage), right? anyhow, this was a pretty energizing read.
"The male is a biological accident: the Y (male) gene is an incomplete X (female) gene, that is, it has an incomplete set of chromosomes. In other words, the male is an incomplete female, a walking abortion, aborted at the gene stage. To be male is to be deficient, emotionally limited; maleness is a deficiency disease and males are emotional cripples." -genius!
Object of the satire could be misogynist discourse (i.e., applying the same barbarities to men that are routinely applied to women), or feminist discourse (i.e., taking certain feminist principles and exaggerating them to irrational ends), or the discourse of masculinity (i.e., suggesting that masculinist doctrine sets up an ideal that needs to be cut up (analyzed?
The commune, therefore, is doomed to failure.”“The male has a negative Midas Touch -- everything he touches turns to shit.”Ultimate object is apparently a state wherein “automation is completely instituted” in the production process.
"The male is a biological accident: the Y (male) gene is an incomplete X (female) gene, that is, it has an incomplete set of chromosomes.
Not because it was disgusting, but because it was so trippy and weird that the person who wrote it had to be a different brand of insane and oh, my goodness, Solanas she shot Warhol because she genuinely believed that men are BAAAAD.
A tiny thing that weirded me out was how normal it'd have sounded if the essay was gender swapped; it could easily be an anti-women propaganda.
Solanas'ın fikirlerinin benim anladığım, inandığım feminizm ile çok bağlantılı olduğunu düşünmüyorum açıkçası.
Erkekler, Solanas'a göre eksik kadınlar.
Bu eksiklerinin bilincindeler; ama bu göstermekten deli gibi korkuyorlar ve her türlü rezilliği yapıyorlar.
Erkekler kötü, babalar iğrenç (bu keskin fikirlerde Solanas'ın küçük yaşta babası tarafından taciz edilmesinin etkisi büyük diye tahmin ediyorum)...
Keza erkeklerle beraber olan kadınlar için de Solanas'ın söyleyeceği iyi şeyler yok.
Kendisi bu yazdıklarının ne kadarına tam olarak inanıyordu ne kadarını tam anlamıyla savunuyordu bilemiyorum; ama kendisi ile aynı düşündüğüm birkaç noktanın olduğunu da belirteyim.İlginç bir "manifesto"; fakat beklediğim gibi olmadığını da söylemem gerek.
Yikes. As part of my attempt to get back to 'real' reading, I finally decided to tackle this infamous work.Ugh. I cannot make myself believe the author was serious about these ideas in a literal way. I think the Manifesto succeeds as a condemnation of patriarchy and classism. My guess is, she was going for some kind of satire--an indictment of '60s radicals and their extremist ways?The writing, however, is awful, and on its face, horribly offensive. It's sad to me that this is viewed by so many as a valid example of second wave feminism or of feminist separatists.
Solanas' SCUM (Society for Cutting Up Men) Manifesto, which was written before she shot Warhol, is the only other thing for which she shall be remembered.
If you are at all open when you read it you will shake your head at the ridiculousness of it but almost thinking, "I can see where this is coming from." Personally, as a man, I'm glad no one took this seriously, But I also understand this was written at a time when feminism was striving while the predominantly white male power structure continued to be in control and I can understand Solanas' frustration.
The SCUM Manifesto was Solanas' way of fucking up.
It's a good dose of crazy, faulty reasoning. Very entertaining.Underlying some of her radical and ridiculous statements are actually some interesting concepts (which we still hear about--lab babies, for example). However, you have to dig through her man-hating murderous rage to see it.I just hope no one comes across this and thinks it's what feminism really is.
Alongside the discussion about the male is defective animal, she says some profound things about the gender roles in a way calm,droll acadamic essays about men,women cant say. It is very special reading someone who is fearless about some really big human issues.The agressive language,tone made it a powerful read.
Saldırgan ve zekice yazılmış. Politikadan kaçan zekice bir politik hat çizmiş. Özellikle kadınlar okumalı bence. Sonra da SCUM'la eril kafası kesmeyeee. ( SCUM yan örgütüne katılmaya razı erkekler hariç. Onları da güzel bir aydınlanma dönemi bekliyor.)
La vera utilità di un delirio è la sopravvivenza psichica di chi ne è la protagonista. L'essere sopravvissute e sopravvissuti non è condizione sufficiente per diventare pensatrici o pensatori degni di nota, come è ovvio. Ma può bastare per consegnare ai posteri alcune pagliuzze d'oro in un setaccio colmo di sabbia. Le valutazioni andrebbero quindi date alle orafe del pensiero femminista del dopo-Solanas.
"The male is completely egocentric, trapped inside himself, incapable of empathizing oridentifying with others, or love, friendship, affection of tenderness.
He is a completely isolatedunit, incapable of rapport with anyone."Rating: 0/5 Stars.......I'm at loss of words...I mean, I knew what I was getting into when I bought this but still, there's a difference between knowing something and seeing it through my own glasses.
I think the quote is self-explanatory, this book is full of male-hate and general sexism toward the masculine gender, doing the exact same thing women have been suffering from since the beginning of times.
She makes the following claims about men: “Completely egocentric, unable to relate, empathize or identify, and filled with a vast, pervasive, diffuse sexuality, the male is psychically passive.” Many of us have met men like this, and one thing that worries me is I can only count with my two hands the amount of men in the world who stray from those previously listed vices.
Her manifesto, with the exception of her claims that “the male is an incomplete female”, sound like the rough drafts of my journal entries when I rant about the evils of the calloused, sex-deprived entity that embodies masculinity.
Five stars for being a woman, that didn`t just complain/screech when she was offended by something. Instead she wrote an manifesto for the extermination of males and shot Andy Warhol. This woman is clearly superior than all those broads who claim to be modern and tolerant, but screech out when somebody dares to touch their o so beloved celebrities.
Five stars for being a woman, that didn`t just complain/screech when she was offended by something. Instead she wrote an manifesto for the extermination of males and shot Andy Warhol. This woman is clearly superior than all those broads who claim to be modern and tolerant, but screech out when somebody dares to touch their o so beloved celebrities.
I am glad that someone told me to read this as satire, but that still didn't quite help. Jonathan Swift, she isn't. Still, important to read to simply capture a sense of feminism than. I also am left with the feeling that the pop opera I saw about Andy Warhol did Solanas a huge injustice.
