https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50053.The_Contender
I am interested to know something and I start to read."The Contender" by Robert Lyipsyte is a story about a young man named Alfred.
I want to recommend that book “contender” is really an interesting book to read; and, it is good to study for those people who are trying to do a boxer.
This book is good for those people who are young and want to be contender because in this book Alfred was only six tin year old when he get dropout of high school.
When you read this book you will see fair, love, life, friend and also teacher who used to be kind.
This book is about a teen named alfred Brooks. He dropout of high school and now is a poor teen living in the poor street. He takes boxing school once he heard about it. I like this book because I also like boxing.
I like to think that I'm pretty well-informed on the history of children's and teen lit, but this one had never before crossed my path.More's the pity, too, because it is a fantastic little book.
But sports journalist Lipsyte brings both expertise and heart to The Contender; I honestly have no idea whether he knows what he's talking about when it comes to the sport, but given his bibliography, I assume he does, and more importantly, I believe it when I read it.
But in 1967, talking about heroin and coke in YA lit...well, honestly, I'd have to do research to know how this book fit in with its contemporaries, so I won't make wild guesses.
James, Hollis, and Major all decided to break into the grocery store that Alfred works at.
Alfred found James and promised him they were going to make their lives good together.
I wanted to read this book because it was about sports, but I knew there would be a deeper meaning that involves life.
It didn't revolve around just sports either, these lessons can easily be applied to life.You should read this book if you are interested in seeing anyone become "somebody" out of their own determination.
All the similarities between me and Alfred kept me reading this book, it felt like I was reading a story about me but instead of it being about boxing my story would've been about football and all the adversity I've had to go through to get where I am today.
My least favorite character in the book was Major, Major was the antagonist of the story, he was always trying to fight Alfred and he was the leader of the bad group (the thiefs, punks, and potheads).
This book was a really great example of how hard work and dedication can really get you a long way.
The main character of this book is a seventeen year old boy who's an orphan living with his aunt and nieces.
This is a really good book that I enjoyed a lot.
I think this book can relate to a lot of people in the real world.
For example, a lot of people that live in tough neighborhoods probably have to go through the same things that Alfred did.
I definitely recommend this book to all of my classmates.
This is a very well written book--lots of great imagery and a nice mix of stream of consciousness in with traditional narrative.
Character development is great with Lipsyte creating an imperfect protagonist who struggles with making the right choices and learns a lot about himself in the process.
Alfred, the protagonist, is 17, but I still think this is a "coming of age" book.
Even though Alfred has been orphaned, he has family in his aunts and cousins, and also in his boss, coach and best friend.
I liked how loyal Alfred was to his best friend, even when he was rejected.
when I got going I could not stop reading and there were some parts that was not as good but when I got to the end it was a cliff hanger.
The story of The Contender by Robert Lipstye sets in Harlem, New York narrated by Alfred Brooks who is a high school drop out, that is leading nowhere in life.
Through the beginning of the story you see Alfred struggling through life after dropping out.
Soon later he begins to train at "Dontellies Boxing Gym" that he get taught about champions, to learn the effort of not the win but makes the man out of you.
The contender is a sports/ coming of age story to show you to always have the heart of a champion.
I thought this book was a bit boring because I had a feeling it was going to be a novel on a kid in a bad neighborhood and having some problems.
He then gets introduced to boxing and starts to learn it and stays focused on that path and begins to train hard.
I thought that he was going to get lost in all of that and drop boxing and school, but he doesn’t.
A couple of things that I really liked is that Alfred has perseverance and never quits in training even though he has so many obstacles put in front of him and continues stay focused.
The Contender by Robert Lipsyte, is one of my favorite books that I have read because it deals with real life situations, and a struggle to fight an addiction.
He struggles to fight the addiction of drugs and of peer pressure.It all starts with the main character Alfred Brooks messing with the wrong people and gets evolved with these hoodlums.
James and his know good friends decide to rob the local grocery store that Alfred works at, thinking it will be easy.
Alfred gets caught up with the drugs and drinking because of Major thinking that James, (Fresh out of jail) his best friend, would be there too.
Alfred always really liked boxing and one day he got beat up on the streets.
The whole plot of this book was very good because it showed how he was surrounded by drugs and violence and he never got involved in any of that because he really loved the sport boxing.
The book really makes you want to keep reading because you never know what is going to happen to Alfred on the streets or in the gym.
The book “The Contender” by Robert Lipstye is highly recommended from me.
If you like to dig yourself into a thrilling and life learning novel, than this is for you.
Living with his uncle and aunt, after the death of his parents has it hard on him.
Alfred was a kid who would rob stores with his friends or beat kids up on the street.
Until suddenly both of his parents past away he has to live with his aunt and uncle.
He stopped robbing stores and beating up kids on the street.
In Harlem they also invite innocent boys like Alfred to the club and tempt them to take drugs.
I believe that boxing is a way for him to prove to himself that he has the heart of a contender in the boxing ring and in life even as his former life try’s to control him.
James is very easy to persuade because the bully named major persuades James to break into a store but James gets caught by the police while he was trying to break in.
Then major blames Alfred about James getting arrested.
Alfred gets beat up by them and then he tries even harder to be a contender.I believe this story’s strong characters, and engaging storyline that makes it a must read for grades 6-12.
Alfred is not looking for a purpose in life, and decides to join Donatelli's Gym. He made this decision when he walked past it one night after thinking about his future.
After meeting Mr. Donatelli, Alfred gets a strict work out plan and diet which he struggles through.I liked this brook, though I think that the ending left off too early.
It is in Alfred's work, his house, and Donatelli's Gym for the most part.
Alfred and Rocky are both dedicated, work hard and train hard to get their goals.
As an adult who mainly reads books written for an older audience, I am conditioned to books with well-developed, 3-dimensional characters and multiple subplots.
The main character, Alfred Brooks, is mostly a 2-dimensional character who also happens to be dynamic.
Characters who undergo changes in personality and beliefs tend to be more well-rounded and finding a flat, but dynamic character can be fairly rare.
Brooks possesses only only 1 or 2 defining character traits before the catalyst, and another 1 or 2 after the change.
The plot is also rather simplistic.
The only other character directly affected by Brooks's journey is his childhood friend, James.
It was his first fight and he lost so he quit again but this time he thought about his friend that is in jail and he did not want to go down that path so he got back in to fighting.One quote that i liked from the book is Henry said to alfred "I have never seen footwork like that Alfred" that is my favorite quote because he had quit so many times it is good to see that your skills are stil there.A book that i would read by the same alther is, One Fat Summer.
My opinion for The Contender is that it is a great book.
The main character, Alfred Brooks, is a high school dropout that wasnts to learn how to box.
I think htis because throughout the entire book Alfred is either training or boxing.
This is not a very hard book to read, but there is drugs and violence in the book so I would say this book would be suitable for 7th-11th graders.
If their wasn't drugs in the book I would say the intended audience would be 6th to 11th graders.
However Alfred is either at the gym or at his aunts most of the time.
In the novel The Contender, a boy named Alfred Brooks lives with his aunt, and drops out of high school so he can work full time at the grocery store where he works.
Alfred's aunt, in the book called Aunt Pearl, takes care of Alfred after he lost both of his parents.
Throughout the book, Alfred learns more and more about what he lives for, and the importance of not quiting.
Whether he loses his fight or not, Alfred gets stronger.After reading this book, I feel it deserves four stars.
The genre of the book is realistic fiction.
This book was about a kid named Alfred.
He hangs out with the bad crowed, but the streets are all he knows.
Alfred starts to realize the streets are not a good place.
He figures out that he needs to get away from the bad crowed and do something good with his life.
Will boxing pay off for Alfred?
Read the book and find out.
I think this book is alright.
I don't think i would read it again.
I would recommend this book to someone who likes to see how someone can change their life around for the good.
If you get Bob Lipsyte talking about how The Contender came to be, he will tell you that the seed was planted when he took a man named Cus D’Amato out to dinner, shortly before he covered a boxing match in 1964 in Miami. Lipsyte would later go on to be a sports columnist for the New York Times, but in 1964 he was a cub reporter sent to cover the fight between Sonny Lipton and a new kid whom everyone thought would get knocked out in the first round, Cassius Clay (later known as Muhammad Ali). Full review:http://www.twentybyjenny.com/teenBook...
I don't really like this book; it doesn't make any sense. It's not my type of book. Can we read a different/better book next time? The ending didn't make sense, Alfred just walked away into the sunshine with a guy who ditched him for bullies for the whole entire book and gives up his boxing career for James. James doesn't do anything for Albert except to give him trouble. Then, Albert forgives James which I don't think he should have done; if I were him, I would have taken him to the police, I wouldn't even CONSIDER forgiving him.
As soon as I started listening to this book, I'm hooked so when the reader said 'the end' just as the H started looking forward, I literally shouted "NO!" because I don't want it to end.It's a story of a young man trying to find his way despite his hard beginning. His circumstance are very relateable and I root for him, got annoyed with him, then cheer for him some more. I loved it and even recommend this for young readers.
The Contender, By Robert Lipyte, is a book that takes place in Harlem, in the times of segregation. Alfred Brooks is a grocery worker, but is tired of that and wants to be a boxer. With proper training, he actually has some professional fights. If you like books with sports, hard times, and friend problems, this book is great as a good read
The contender is about a teenage drop out, who was in a gang and gets out of it. He goes into boxing, and wants to be a Champaign. But what he doesn't know that it takes a lot of hard work to be a winner and reach to the top. He always wanted to give up, just quit all of what he's learn but always reminds himself about what he wants.
I really enjoyed this book! I had to read it for school and I had never heard of it before and I was pleasantly surprised. I got kind of bored and confused during his fights with the whole "left hook right hook" fighter jargon but I really enjoyed the story. And it's clean! (minus a dude who uses/ is addicted to cocaine and a not so nice word in the beginning)
This was a great book. It's not too long and it reads pretty fast. It's almost a guarantee that you'll get sucked in after the first few minutes and won't want to put it back down. It teaches a great moral lesson set to a powerful story. This is worth reading for wrestlers or other athletes.
Another inner-city-kid overcomes the odds story. Gangs, shootings, drugs, etc. The protagonist fights (ha, pun intended) his way out with the help of caring mentors at a boxing gym.
I really liked this book I would recomend this book to people who like boxing or just any teenage boy.
It was amazing, it made me feel bad for the people that lived in a bad place
