https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210919.The_Shadow_in_the_North
This is the second instalment in the Sally Lockhart quartet, which is a Victorian-era series following amateur-sleuth-turned-private-detective, Sally Lockhart, as she attempts to solve the mysteries of London's dark underbelly, as well as those muddying her own past.I struggle to pinpoint exactly what made my experience of reading this so unenjoyable.
I can only pinpoint it to my prior adoration of Pullman's writing.
This was not a bad book, in any sense, but all the elements I have previously loved about him were just missing here.This was an intriguing insight to historical London, had great character progression as it showed the alteration in 16-year-old Sally, from the first book, into the 22-year-old woman depicted in this one, and followed an intriguing and mysterious story-line.And I think that is my ultimate issue with this.
I hate Philip Pullman.
I love this book, but I hate him so much right now.
Because I can't think of reading this book again.
Someone I would have been able to relate to more (which is also probably why I like this character more than I do Lyra Belacqua in Pullman's His Dark Materials trilogy).
Then I remembered that my window has a screen and I don't go about abusing books in the first place, so that was out of the question.Seriously, Pullman?
Seriously?
The Shadow of the North has a lot going on, including runaway magicians, false mediums, and steampunk weapons of mass destruction.
It's about love.
Not that mushy, obsessive stuff so many YA novels devote their pages of purple prose to.
Philip Pullman's writing captures all the fire and wit of real people on the verge of greatness, in the grips of fear, in the throes of desperate obsession or evenly-matched love.
But he's also great at describing him some mundane settings and activities in the smartest, most spare, clear way.
So happy there's The Shadow of the North to read instead!
seriously, why the heck do people waste their time with the golden compass?
so good.
intelligent, villains you love to hate, sinister plots...i normally hate this word applied to a book, but it was a delicious read.
so dang good.and now, major spoiler.....................seriously, don't read this if you value the experience of reading a book at all.................no joke.
leave now.......don't say i didn't warn you.fred dies!
are you freaking kidding me?!
that dumb girl who wanted to die just dragged him down with her.
he didn't want to die.
he'd just hooked up with the girl of his dreams that very night!
Pullman write a compelling story for more than 2/3 of the book.The historical detail is seamless and breathtaking.But ...
But then Pullman has three characters behave strongly out of character that results in the death of one of them.
I just could not allow Pullman to take such a lame turn in his own plot.
If he's going to kill off a major character, he should do it in a way that MAKES SENSE with the rest of the book rather than derails it completely.
Why did he have to ruin his book?
He could have still killed off his person and stayed true to his characters.
(It was entirely PG, of course, but I was still, naturally, shocked.) The Shadow in the North was the first book I read where I fell in love with one of the characters.
I had read Black Hearts in Battersea, right before the Sally Lockhart trilogy (Tin Princess came later—that’s another story) and, in retrospect, probably had a crush on her main character, Simon (who had not even been my favorite character; Dido Twite held that distinction).But Frederick Garland was head and shoulders above the slightly wooden Simon.
In a lot of ways, The Shadow in the North was the first real book I read.
Sally immediately confronts the powerful and evil industrialist, he asks her to marry him, she says OK, asks him to give her a tour of his incredibly dangerous weapon they've been trying to stop, he agrees with no concerns, she shoots the magazine and it explodes killing bad guy, but she survives (two books in a row where she saves herself with her gun in direct confrontation), and she finds out she is pregnant in Victorian England with dead Frederick's baby from their one night stand/engagement celebration.
Pullman is a great writer--characters, plot, setting are all beautifully and deftly developed.
The Sally Lockhart series is as engaging a mystery series as you'll find.
Sally and her friends/business partners are a delightfully intelligent group who come upon a major mystery that joins a magician's trouble with some shadowy pursuers and a retired teacher's loss of investment money.
Something insidious is entrapping Victorian England, and Sally's life becomes dependent upon discovering its source.
However, I can't quite get over being mad at Pullman for something tragic that happens in this book.
book on CD: Anton Lesser is a delightful reader!
- Frederick Garland dan Jim Taylor: yang satu fotografer, punya usaha fotografi sama pamannya.
--> pas baca, agak susah memahami karena setting-nya ternyata classic, ada bbrp kosakata yg bikin bingung.
latar belakang financial consultant-nya Sally, banyak istilah2 finansial yg aku sendiri gak familiar, lumayan bikin mikir sih.
--> twist menjelang akhir (view spoiler)[ FREDERICK MATI SIA-SIA, DEMI NYELAMETIN ISABEL, ORANG YANG SEBENARNYA GAK MAU DISELAMETIN, KARENA UDAH PASRAH SAMA HIDUPNYA.
kayak sia-sia aja gitu perjuangan selama ini, haft.P.S.: aku gak baca buku 1, jadi utk ngikutin karakternya sempet bingung sih.
tapi gara2 baca ini, jadi penasaran sama buku 1 dan ke-3 nyaa..
The ending sucks. Period.
This book annoyed me in several ways.
First of all, it is set six years after the first book and changes many things about the characters with no explanation.
A character who was only interested in photographic art is now a private detective.
It was a fun, light, Victorian adventure story.
Pullman doesn't seem to know what kind of book he's writing.
He seems to be trying to force a YA book to be more adult.
I was pretty traumatized by some of the events of the book.
This could have been a really great, fun book, but it just left me annoyed.
My experience with Philip Pullman is that he writes an excellent first book, but then starts doing nasty things to his characters and basically ruins it all. I hate that his romances never work out. And the books end up getting so dark and twisted.
Anche questo secondo volume, davvero davvero ben fatto! Sto adorando leggere questa serie, è perfetta per essere divorata d'estate :3A fine quadrilogia, ci scriverò su un papiro!(Uhm.. quelle sarebbero le mie buone intenzioni..)
I did not enjoy this nearly as much as the first book in the series.
I missed several characters (Rosa, Trembler).
There were plot developments that I found predictable.
I spotted them coming very early on.
I just kept reading to see how those were going to be revealed to everyone else.
I like Sally less in this book.
I'll probably read the third installment, but maybe The Ruby in the Smoke should have been left as just a standalone book.
Pretty much everything that was appealing about that book is gone in this one.
I listened to this right after listening to 'The Ruby in the Smoke' which is the first in the series and while I liked 'The Ruby in the Smoke', I think 'The Shadow in the North' is much better in both plot-line and character development.I love Anton Lesser, he's such an amazing actor/reader listening to him read the book is a delight.
I love the voices and the accents he gives the characters.
I can't wait to listen to the next book in the series.
I highly recommend this series, I just love these characters.
3/31/2016 Still loving this after the third time!
I rebelled for months against finishing this reread because THE ENDING HURTS SO MUCH. But the entire story is, of course, so well done and so complex and inviting that even the ouchiest of literary ouchies can't take away the joy of visiting Sally's world again. That said, if Pullman could let some characters just be happy, I wouldn't be such a blubbery mess right now. JUST SAYING.
I can pretend i finished this book but that is a lie i just really wanted to rate it and say that i found it very boring im so sorry, pullman, but i'll give you another try when i start reading the golden compass

En tout cas, quand je lis un tome 2 d'une histoire, d'abord, je m'attends a ce que ce soit une suite du tome 1; mais il n'en est rien, tout est différent, six ans se sont écoulés depuis le tome 1, les protagonistes ont vieill...
L'auteur fait simplement comme si elle n'avait pas existé, et pourtant il nous a fait craindre pour elle tout le long du premier tome!
Mais perso j'aime pas trop les auteurs qui maltraitent les sentiments des lecteurs comme ça.
I liked the first book, but i loved this one! More suspense, more crimes, more mystery and sadly more tragedy...also the protagonist Sally is way more relatable now that she is older and more mature.
I enjoyed this one quite a bit more than the first in the series! Much more attached to the characters and I followed the plot a lot easier.
Interesting storyline. Different style to the first in the series. I really like the way this guy writes and will follow this series right through.
Meanwhile Jim and Fred attend a séance held by a Nellie Budd who in amongst false statements has a genuine vision which links Sally’s clients money loss with Mackinnon’s vision of a murder.
From there Sally and her associates are drawn into the murky, dangerous world of Victorian London, at the centre of which is the evil Axel Bellman.
In a further plot twist Sally finds out that Mackinnon and Mary are married; but Mackinnon is loved by Isobel, a lady with a birthmark covering her face.
She tricks him by agreeing to marry him in return for the money owed to her client and asks to see the steam gun.
It’s been four years, but it felt like I just read the book for the first time.
Made his charater more insteresting and worth finding out about.You also met new charaters....A weird magic man named Mackinnon (who they spend most of the book looking for him), a poor, ugly, in love woman named Isabel, a pretty, shy woman named Lady Mary (she's married to Mackinnon, though you don't find that out until later in the book), and finally, the evil, big, powerful man named Bellmann (FYI he is the bad guy).
And you know what, he asked Sally to MARRY him!!!
It's been six years since Sally Lockhart solved the murder of her father with the help of photographer Frederick Garland and the handy office boy Jim Thorpe.
Sally, Fred, and Jim face some enormously hard situations that do not end well.
Furthermore, given the shocking ending - which literally left in tears, my friends - I am happy to say I already have the next Sally Lockhart mystery, 
The Victorian setting was pleasing to read, and the narrative plunges the reader straight into it, leaving no hint in the reader's mind that this was actually written a century later.I expected the story to be tied up in a light, satisfying way a la P.G Wodehouse.
Nearing the end of the book, when you expect some of the puzzles to be solved, Pullman delivers a shocker.
And THEN the mystery is solved, but the light, fluffy atmosphere is lost, and the ending becomes morose and bitter-sweet.
Well, I was greatly disappointed with one of the events that takes place in this novel, but someday I'll get over it.I will say that there were several really awesome turns of phrase in this book, enough that I marked them to laugh over them later."She took the fish out of her mouth again, looked at him steadily for a moment, and then released a flood of the filthiest, richest, ripest, fruitiest, foulest language Jim had ever heard.
At your worst you're nothing but a smooth, self-righteous, patronizing bitch." Harsh for a kid's book!Sex too?!?
"He laughed.
Besides for that, however, I still did not achieve a sort of emotional connection with any of the characters to be much shaken over the shocking event that takes place.
I will probably read the remaining Sally Lockhart-related books since I am this far along now.
They are fair enough reads, but nothing in particular about them is going to stick with me, and I probably won't be going around singing the praises of these books to anyone anytime soon.
Tal vez fue la historia, o la traducción, pero la escritura nunca logró atraparme lo suficiente como para que me importara la historia.
Y además, los demás personajes tampoco parecieron sufrir tanto, a pesar de la relación entre ellos, la muerte de uno fue tan...
abrupta, tan sin sentido, y sin un duelo por parte de los otros que a mí en realidad me importó poco.Hubiera estado mejor que de verdad lo sintieran, que su muerte hubiera estado mejor justificada.Así como estuvo, el final hasta me pareció flojo y después conveniente.
