https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/191960.The_Black_Island
L'ile Noire = The Black Island (Tintin, #7), Hergé The Black Island (French: L'Île noire) is the seventh volume of The Adventures of Tintin, the comics series by Belgian cartoonist Hergé.
Commissioned by the conservative Belgian newspaper Le Vingtième Siècle for its children's supplement Le Petit Vingtième, it was serialised weekly from April to November 1937.
The story tells of young Belgian reporter Tintin and his dog Snowy, who travel to England in pursuit of a gang of counterfeiters.
Tintin is a magnet for shenanigans.Out for a walk, comes across a landed plane in a field, shot at.
Tintin and Snowy cannot go anywhere without stumbling over diamond thieves, counterfeiters, smugglers and general goons.
I guess it's natural that he is a reporter - no other reporter would believe his stories.This time Tintin get's caught up with some money counterfeiters.
There is a wonderful sequence with Thompson and Thomson where they are in a plane with no pilot.
So Tintin is in a kilt and one of these pompom hats.Lot's of fun.
The only Tintin book I ever owned and my precious :')
Tintin goes to Scotland4 February 2012 Tintin is wondering through the Belgian countryside, out for a nice leisurely stroll, when he sees a plane making an emergency landing. Being the helpful young man that he is he goes to see if he can help but is immediately shot and left for dead. However, as we have discovered, it is very hard to kill Tintin, and it turns out that the bullet only grazed him, and he decides that he must go and investigate, so he jumps on a train and travels to England after
Up until that time I was always under the impression that Tintin lived in London (I guess the English versions suggested that, particularly implying that Thompson and Thomson worked at Scotland Yard).
However, in this album it is clear that Tintin has to cross the English channel, and as a kid this left me confused, trying to work out where Tintin lived (turns out that it is Brussels).
In this album Tintin is on the trail of some counterfeiters and travels to Scotland to confront them.
The adventures continue, with Tin-tin meeting many of his same enemies and also some of his dutiful "friends" (like the Dupond and Dupont brothers). This time, travels include small, dangerous planes (in one case, piloted by a simple mechanic and carrying frightened Dupond and Dupont!) and also the Black Island, where a terrible "beast" awaits to frighten everybody... No, even though it is in Scotland, it is not Loch Ness! LOL Why not simply read these wonderful books???Maria Carmo,Lisbon 6 January 2015.
টিনটিনের ইয়ং রিডারস এডিশন পড়ার কৌতুহল ছিল, সে কৌতুহল থেকেই বইটা কেনা। বইটা হাতে নিয়ে পরথমেই যে বিষয়টা লকষযনীয়, বইয়ের আকার টিনটিন সিরিজের গরাফিক অযালবামগুলোর মতো বড় না, একটা পেপারবযাক বই যতোটুকু বড় হয়, ঠিক ততোটুকু। সবাভাবিকভাবেই কমিকসের ছবিগুলোর আকার ছোট হয়েছে, আরজের সুকষমতিসুকষম ডিটেইলিং, কারুকারয অতি কষুদর আকারের হয়ে গিয়েছে, এবং সপিচ বাবলে মেথুয়েন আর মযামথ পাবলিশারসের বযবহৃত চমৎকার কযালিগরাফির মতো ফনটের বদলে আরেক রকম ফনট বযবহার করা হয়েছে, যাতে টেকসট পড়তে আরাম হলেও কেমন জানি কৃতরিম ছাপা অকষরের অ
টিনটিনের ইয়ং রিডার্স এডিশন পড়ার কৌতুহল ছিল, সে কৌতুহল থেকেই বইটা কেনা। বইটা হাতে নিয়ে প্রথমেই যে বিষ
If you want to read these with your kids, then just bring up the fact that this is the way people used to see things and be sure to let them know that not all people saw things this way, we can't deny history, it is part of who we are today and we can't keep changing all of our past literary works to suit our politically correct world today because we are then not sharing the real writer's creation.
It's important that we are true to the time in which these were written and let us not deny our past.
História de desenvolvimento rápido em que não podemos deixar de pensar que é verdadeiramente uma das de hit the ground running. A ação está presente desde as primeiras páginas e só pára mesmo na última. No entanto, dava a sensação que era necessário ter já algum conhecimento prévio da trama para poder apanhá-la. A resolução também foi incrivelmente rápida e cheia de voltas e contravoltas que terminaram no desfecho prevísivel.É sempre agradável ler Tintin, mas obviamente há histórias que marcam sempre que mais do que outras.
This is one of the best Tintins yet!
I used to own all the Tintin comics when I was a kid.
I lost all of them to school mates who borrowed but never returned them.
I have spent many a childhood night in bed cursing and plotting revenge against those careless school mates.
Snowy gets drunk on whiskey.
Great illustrations of idyllic Scottish villages and countrysides with pubs and the great outdoors.
Only Snowy.
Anyway, I guess I'm searching too deep for meaning in a comic book that is supposed to entertain.
And it was pretty entertaining and hilarious and imaginative.
I have loved the Tintin books since childhood.
The other day I came across a list on Pinterest naming the 50 best Graphic Novels and this was on it!
I checked it out from my Library and re-read it...only to be a bit disappointed.
There are some constants about Herge's work that have always drawn me in: Tintin's bravery, the handsome artwork, the colorful characters.
But the best part was always Tintin's deductive and/or inductive reasoning to find a way out of trouble.
In this book that was lacking.
All in all, it's still Herge, but not at his best.
می توان گفت آغاز جزیره سیاه یکی از نفس گیرترین آغازهای سری تن تن است. نقاشی هایش به علت بازنویسی های چندباره جدیدتر است و چندجایی هم خوب می خنداند. اما خبری از پیچیدگی های معماگونه ی همیشگی به آن صورت دیده نمی شود. داستان سرراستی است که خیلی بی آزار و آرام هم تمام می شود.
Além de o Milú ver o seu alcoolismo canino tratado com porrada, há uma incongruência lamentável na sequência do ancinho.De resto, é uma maravilha.
Un Tintín que recuerda bastante a los primeros álbumes de la serie: acción desde la página uno, 62 páginas de persecuciones, argumento mínimo (prácticamente un macguffin), influencias de la Keystone y sobretodo de “39 escalones” de Alfred Hitchcock. Una maravilla. Le pongo un 4 por no poner a todos 5.
snowy gets drunk and likes it, what a riot
Not my all time fav but right up there among Tintin's top 5 adventures I reckon.There's so much to like here - it's one one of the more deft, tightly controlled plots with Herge bringing together his usual twists, humor, intrigue and scene-setting in a brilliant work that never lets up but never feels rushed.I won't rehash the plot but I was gripped instantly the first time I read this as a kid - Tintin is shot on the opening page!
I enjoyed seeing Snowy quite pleased with himself upon finding the bone and the detail inside Dr Muller's home was lovely too.
The great vertical panels where the fire inspector climbs to the nest also stood out - or the medium shot of the island and the ruined castle.
It brings you into the era it was written and you feel like some imaginative boy in 1930s Belgium reading this at night, saying things to yourself like, "oh boy!"Tintin and his faithful dog Snowy foil a gang of counterfeiters and they do it by car, train and plane.
It was fun and it reads like a serious throwback, though it's actually what anything from the last 50 years was referencing.It was a lot of fun, though I thought it was leading to a bigger finale, but the Tintin comic strip started in 1929, so this was before the era of "we need a big twist." It's just a innocent but pleasantly wild, sometimes funny, straight-forward, do-the-right-thing-at-all-costs, mystery-solving adventure serial.
Lizzy and I just finished this one. She and I are really enjoying reading the series together. This one was very humorous and particularly funny when Thompsen and Thomson accidentally commandeer a mechanic instead of a pilot to fly their plane.
Que bien, puedo leer un comic en alemán y entenderlo y todo. Yay!
On the trail of forgers, the intrepid boy reporter arrives at a mysterious castle. Stars Richard Pearce and Andrew Sachs.
Good fun!By reputation, the early installments of Tintin are largely plotless, consisting mainly of single-page gags, while the later installments are intricately plotted epics.
Plotwise, it is nothing but a long chase sequence, like an early Hitchcock movie.
Structurally, Hergé often goes for a gag or conclusion panel at the end of every second page.
I lost track of the number of times Tintin got whacked on the back of the head- he's going to have some brain issues later in life!
I'd be curious to see whether Hergé tries for more credibility in the later volumes.
I love this one!!!The story is Tintin investigates a plane that lands in a field. The crew of two man open fire against Tintin and flight away. Tintin follows the lead to Scotland but Thompson and Thomson are following him to arrest him.This books it differs cause Snowy has more main role to play by helping, saving or getting Tintin in trouble. My favorite parts was when Snowy as very naughty dog and irresponsible, was drinking or tried to drink some more...
#29 for 2018Genre: Children Comic
That dog (snowy) can't hold his liquor.
Another happy Sunday afternoon with Tintin and Snowy - and this time with Thompson and Thomson as main characters too. Reminded me a little of the 39 Steps - must be the Scottish theme. Highly enjoyable - For the record my copy was published by Methuen - 1968 reprint of the 1966 edition.
It is easy to see why the Tintin stories were a childhood favorite of many movie directors of a certain age. Peter Jackson and Steven Spielberg both cite the young reporter/adventurer as influences on their work. They of course combined to produce the Tintin movie of recent years, but one only has to look at the young Indiana Jones movies to see Tintin’s never say die attitude, knack for getting into and out of any type of scrape, and a hatred of evil in all its forms. THE BLACK ISLAND sees our
They of course combined to produce the Tintin movie of recent years, but one only has to look at the young Indiana Jones movies to see Tintin’s never say die attitude, knack for getting into and out of any type of scrape, and a hatred of evil in all its forms.
Perhaps not.)	Tintin gets knocked around a lot, the Thom(p)sons are here trying to botch up Tintin’s investigation, Snowy battles a gorilla and the story itself takes flight when everyone involved meet on the deadly island of the title.
And it is very funny despite all the evil doings that appear on every page.
Like The Land of Black Gold, this adventure has been updated a number of times so it's difficult to know which version exactly one has read.An emergency landing of a small aircraft with no registration catches Tintin's attention.
Tintin knows he has to get their to solve the crime and clear his name.From what I've read in posts at Tintinologist and Hergé's Tintin, Hergé's artwork for this story evolved from black and white (the 1937 serial version) to muted colors (1943) to being fully redrawn and recolorized for the 1966 English translation.
The beginnings of these stories have been around as long as the Lord of the Rings, the illustration and environments in the Tintin books are accurate and extremely detailed.
Anyone who has spent even a little time exploring Herge (Georges Remi) can see the painstaking research and adversity he worked through to compose the world around Tintin.
His ideas were ahead of his time (Exploring the moon, Industrialization, South American political conflict, modern slave trade, extraterrestrial life) and he made certain every detail for every object would be realistic (after the third book at least).
Herge's work can certainly be cited as an influence for any modern day graphic novel or comic book.
So far the best adventure in the series.
Here is Tintin and Snowy at their best, trying to solve a mystery.
After witnessing a plane crash while out walking Tintin rushes to help only to be fired upon.
So begins a chance across the English Channel through Britain to Scotland.The main stand out in this book is the prominence of Snowy.
Here he evolves from annoying follower to active adventurer, helping Tintin get out of (and sometimes into) trouble.
A man and his dog solving mysteries not involving a multi-coloured van and suspicious snacks or racist, colonial overtones.
This relatively early Tintin adventure is a fair bit of fun.
The plotting is pretty loose, especially in the opening half, where coincidence and implausibility abound (and somewhere along the way, Herge seems to forget that Thomson and Thompson are supposed to be trying to arrest Tintin, but oh well), but in the latter half, when Tintin arrives in Scotland (and gets dolled up in adorable stereotypical Scottish togs!), things pick up.
The plotting is tighter, and the addition of a gorilla (rather than the Loch Ness monster) adds a nice touch of the grotesque.
There are some especially amusing bits, and some impressive action sequences.
Quite a lot of fun.
