https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152408.The_Bitch
At any rate, I DNF'd the movie because it got dull about midpoint, and I started to feel the same way while reading The Bitch.Which disappoints me, because this teaming should be guaranteed fabulousness.Oh, maybe this book was fabulous....but I have yet to overcome some niggling nitpickiness about Jackie's writing.
This was a mere 160 pages, and yet I swear it had just as many characters jammed into it as was in the epic 660+ page sprawl of Hollywood Wives.I loved the first part, with Fontaine Khaled being an absolute trashy bitch and Nico Constantine being a classy manwhore.
wow! what a piece of shit. if you like bad books like i do, you'll completely enjoy this trash!!!
Davno je kad sam ovu knjigu pročitala na hrvatskom jeziku tako da bih ju trebala ponovo pročitati...Jackie Collins mi je jedna od omiljenih autora i pročitala sam sve knjige iz knjižnice koje sam pronašla....
Jackie <3
This was my first Jackie Collins book.
It took me a few moments to adjust to this book because it's so different from what I'm used to reading.
I viewed them as indestructible superheroes in their own comic book world of sex and money.
I feel that jackie Collins has fun with these characters and makes fun of the characters at the same time.
What appealed to me the most, however, was the natural and charming style of Jackie Collins' writing.
She's very pleasant to read and she kept me interested to the end.
I plan on reading more her books.
I don't know how this book has been averaged to a 3.7 star.
Maybe it's just me but it fell so flat.
The storyline OK at best, none of the characters were at all likeable.
The buildup to the ending fell even flatter than flat because nothing was resolved.
Stupid.The only thing that made this book even remotely OK was that it was a short read.It needed more.
More description, more action, more storyline, more elaboration on solving of the problems.
THE ENTIRE BOOK IS ABOUT FINANCIAL TROUBLES AND THEY COME TO NO CONCLUSION.I highly don't recommend this book, unless you are in the last week of your Goodreads book challenge and need something to smash through quickly.
Well, if ya read "The Stud" ya gotta read "The Bitch." I think this book may have been what started that whole " it's OK to be a bitch thing." Jackie published the book in 1979 - around the time "The Stud" film adaptation helped resurrect sister Joan's career. Joan Collins then reprised her role as "The Bitch", a few years before the Dynasty series in the 80's - where Alexis Carrington (Joanie-baby, again) was THE BITCH! See, I think we have Jackie Collins to thank for kick-starting the Bitch Revolution!
My first book that I've read by jackie Collins, it was pretty good. A bit confusing, close to the ending was sad when one of the characters were found dead in the bathtub, but then at the very end it was pretty good! Definitely will read more books by this author!
I have no idea how to review this... it's standard Jackie Collins... vanity, wealth, sex and drama. Nice candy for the brain if you just want a quick read (very, very short novel).
Couldn't relate to the characters at all.
I enjoyed the book; it had good surprises and it was entertaining. But unfortunately, it was very fast-paced so we only saw one side of most characters. At the end when Fontaine and Nico got together I couldn't relish in their love because everything happened so fast between them. They were on a plane making out, the next they are in love and ready to be together! The part where they got to truly know each other and develop a relationship was not there. The overall story was very interesting!
All Right BookThe book was all right, but to me there were too many loose ends that needed to be resolved. For instance, why did Cherry commit suicide? Did she really commit suicide? Did Dino ever confront his father about Cherry's death? Did Nick pay off his debts? I also thought the phrase kaleidoscope eyes was over used when it came to describing Fontaine. I just admit that this was my first Jackie Collins book, and I was a little disappointed with it. I'm not sure if I would recommend the book of the author.
this was the first novel of hers that I've read. I enjoyed it. rather simple read, nothing too heavy. It was rather raunchy but I found parts of it quite humorous. The characters were quite typical of the time period, self indulged, spoiled, on drugs, obsessed with sex and wanting revenge to a certain point.
It was a good story but did not like the ending.
Not the best book I have read by Jackie Collins and I could not get in to it.
This was the first Jackie Collins that I did not absolutely love. It was just ok.
Enough of Jackie Collins magic to keep you entertained as always but more or less a casual book, nothing special, great if your travelling and want somethig fast!
Really, was that really the ending 😑. Easy read. Contains some good drama and romance. The ending sucked
It was okay for a quick read. Didn't interest me enough to read any other books in the series, however.
Wow lots of characters and fairly confusing ending. Not sure the two main a-holes will stay together or not! The sex scene with the chauffeur and drunken “bitch” of the title was hilarious though!
This was a very quick, exciting read.
This is the first Jackie Collins novel that I have ever read.
I have known who she is for years, as the woman has been writing books for twice as long as I have been alive, but I just never got around to reading her.
It was such a quick read that I felt like it was a novella.
It seemed like I was done with the book before I was my cigarette.
Not bad for my first introduction, but it's not like I'm rushing out to catch up on 50 years of smutty drama.
The late, Jackie Collins is easily overlooked as a literary contributor.
The fabulous wealth and decadence of the characters who find their way into her blockbusters may seem an unlikely setting for a noteworthy legacy.
The Bitch, The World is Full of Married Men, Hollywood Wives and Lady Boss all find their drama in the neurosis of the rich and the conflict for women at this sharpest end of competitive society.
The seduction of luxury and power alone are given an erotic charge.
Her heroines, nonetheless, have desires that she has devoted her life to crafting into erotic writing which ultimately captures a sexual encounter on a woman's terms.
Collins is one of the few.
THE BITCH is the story of two characters: Nico Constantine who married into wealth at a young age, and Fontaine Al Khaled, who also married into wealth.
Nico finds he's dead broke and spends the rest of the novel trying to get himself out of this mess (big time gambling debt).
Fontaine in the meantime is trying to rejuvenate her London night club, while at the same time ignores all advances from Nico, although deep down she is very attracted to him.For a quick light read and some trashy writing, THE BITCH is recommended.
This is literally one of the worst books I have ever read in my life!!!A friend bought it for me, knowing what a huge fan of Joan Colins I am. Having never actually seen the film, I didn’t realise just how bad this book was, and embarrassingly enough, I was reading this on public transport! Hope nobody I knew saw me reading this!Who does read these types of books … and more importantly … why???
As expected the characters are salacious, sleazy and obsessed with money and sex. Fontaine lives up to her bitch status and she deserves Nico and vice versa as they are both pieces of work that defy standards of decency.Too short but jam packed with glitz, glitter and glamour that are favorite trademarks of Jackie Collins work by her fans.
While it would be a stretch of the imagination to consider this a work of high literature, if you're looking for a quick, dirty read with two ridiculous, over-the-top protagonists and an abundant use of the word 'randy' in reference to practically every character in the book, then this might be worth a look.
HAHAHA!!! Why I even read this is beyond me ... but, it was in my freebies list, so I took the plunge! Boy, have writing styles changed since 50 Shades came along ... used to think Jackie Collins's books were sooooo risqué, now they are just laughable -- at least this one was. But it was good for a quick laugh ... and I don't feel bad in deleting all the other JC books ... ho-hum
Not one of my favorite Jackie Collins books, because of the length. It's too short! She writes these books that are page turners, but when they are so short, one easily finishes the book in less than a week.The characters are well developed and are strong, which is appealing in any good book.Need to read a more current J.C book.
Got this free from Amazon Kindle. After about the fifth "turned her kaleidoscope eyes" reference, and all the profane language, I gave up. Horrible, horrible, horrible. I thought this short read would be a good way to see what all the fuss is about Jackie Collins, and why she's one of the most famous authors today. Sorry, Ms. Collins. I just can't.
