https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17623975-just-one-day
THIS WAS SO GOOD! I read this while traveling which was the BEST idea. I love how we got to experience so many different countries and meet so many different people without the story getting confusing. Allyson grew so much as a character and ahhhh I just loved it! Now I definitely have to go out and get Just One Year and read it ASAP.
it really illustrated how important a day can be.Characters: There were actually a lot of characters in this book, and they all felt so genuine and critical!
I really liked Allyson as a main character: if other authors had written her she might have actually gotten annoying, but Gayle Forman wrote her in a way that I always felt like Allyson was on the edge of understanding and that she really wanted to figure it out even if she didn't know how.
I felt the same here: I wanted Allyson to find Willem, and I felt attached to him, but really I didn't know him at all!Settings: Like eating all of the desserts.
I finished Just One Day with a smile on my face, my heart swelling with pride for Allyson, who felt as close to me as my own best friend, and although the pang I feel when I think of this novel is only an echo of what I feel for Forman’s If I Stay and Where She Went duo, I still love it, albeit in an entirely different way.
Perhaps best of all, to Allyson at least, is that she is no longer Allyson, the girl who listens to her parents, studies hard, and never lives life the way so many other teens do; now, she’s “Lulu”, a nickname Willem gives her, and as “Lulu,” Allyson is finally free to let loose the person she truly is inside.
"Ain't such a line between faking and being." My heart is saying yes but my head is saying absolutely not. So I guess it's only fair that I appease the two of them and rate exactly down the middle. To be honest, I have come to expect more from Ms Forman's characters. I found it extremely difficult to care about either Allyson or Willem, especially the latter. While I came to appreciate Allyson's story more in the second half and had my heart singing along to the sad tunes of heartbreak, I never
While I came to appreciate Allyson's story more in the second half and had my heart singing along to the sad tunes of heartbreak, I never came to care much about Willem.
In a completely spur of the moment decision, Allyson decides to do something crazy for once and runs away to Paris with Willem where they spend one day and night together.
With the help of new friends, Allyson decides that all might not be lost after all, and that what she is really seeking might go deeper than a boy she only knew for one day.Surprisingly, the second half of this book worked for me more than the first.
High school graduate Allyson meets an amateur Dutch actor Willem during her post-HS culture tour of Europe and with a spontaneity unnatural to her throws away all her caution and embarks on a day trip to Paris with him.
But this one day has a great effect on Allyson, and this part of the novel I never quite accepted or understood.Because I mostly felt indifferent towards the romance frame of this self-discovery story, the middle portion of the book felt more compelling to me.
4.5 stars I don't know how this author consistently writes such beautifully crafted stories of personal growth, but the level of emotional maturity in this one just astounds me. But sheesh, what a place to stop the story! Can't wait for the next book this fall.
This is not okay.The possible truth is that I should not have given this book a chance, but how was I supposed to know that Willem would not stir my heart?I’m against anything resembling what Allyson is doing, because I don’t believe it’s alright for someone to trust a complete stranger so completely.
Because the writing was good, I could have finished this story if I had wanted to, but you know one of my resolutions this year is not to bother with books I know I won’t enjoy in any way.
Sure, I believe in finishing what you start, but not when there are so many other books out there that deserve a chance.
That doesn't have anything to do with why my feelings on this book would have changed, but I believe it had the most significant impact on my evolving personality.But also four years ago, I was a lil thing.
Also very classic.But what is (unfortunately) not very classic and what makes me love this book so freakin much is Allyson's character arc.
But it makes up, like, a third of the whole thing.IT'S THE REMAINING TWO THIRDS THAT MAKE THE BOOK FOR ME.When Allyson wakes up in Paris, Willem’s gone.
“But I’m also starting to wonder something else. If maybe the point of this crazy quest I’m on wasn’t to help me find Willem. Maybe it was to help me find someone else entirely.” Blurb: When sheltered American good girl Allyson "LuLu" Healey first meets laid-back Dutch actor Willem De Ruiter at an underground performance of Twelfth Night in England, there’s an undeniable spark. After just one day together, that spark bursts into a flame, or so it seems to Allyson, until the following morning,
I wasn’t going to give up and I’m glad I didn’t because, even though it took me a lot of time to like Allyson, I could relate to some things, feelings and situations and, in the end, I knew that reading this book was going to help me see things differently.
Even if he didn’t feel the same way as Allyson, we got to know him as much as to consider him kind enough to not leave the girl alone in a strange city after they slept together.So, who the fuck is Willem, then?He’s this Dutch actor who believes that falling in love is not the same as being in love and that accidents, big or smalls, are what drive us to wherever we need to be.He has a peculiar vision of the world and I can’t say I disagree with him.
I HAVE NO WORDS
It encompasses all of the emotions associated with coming of age, going back and forth between growth, angst, hope, and sadness.Reading Just One Day reminded me why I loved Gayle Forman’s first book, If I Stay.
While this isn’t a dark, dangerous action-adventure novel its progression through Allyson’s bildungsroman backed by its sheer emotional maturity makes it one of the best realistic fiction books I’ve read.There are numerous themes that come together to form Just One Day. But my favorite has to be that of identity and discovering the truth about oneself.
"Why are you making a bucket list then?""Because if you wait until you're really dying, it's too late." I really liked this book! Which is quite shocking considering that I really didn’t like ‘If I Stay’/’Where She Went’.Allyson made some bad decisions in this book, and as a parent you would want to ground her for life. Jumping on a train to Paris with a man she’d only just met? Leaving her suitcase with someone she doesn’t know (who could plant a bomb in it)? Not telling anyone where she was o
Which is quite shocking considering that I really didn’t like ‘If I Stay’/’Where She Went’.Allyson made some bad decisions in this book, and as a parent you would want to ground her for life.
Leaving her suitcase with someone she doesn’t know (who could plant a bomb in it)?
Anyway, putting Allyson’s craziness to one side, I did enjoy this book, and I liked the mystery over exactly what happened.(view spoiler)[ Was Willem really just trying to pull one?
And does she really not like Nutella?"How can I come this far and not be brave?"And then the ending – what happened?
I didn't enjoy If I Stay as much as everyone else seems to and I read The Statistical Probability of Love at First Sight and didn't really enjoy it and this book is pretty similar, but it wasn't just a love story, it had so much more depth to it.
I loved the pivotal role Shakespeare played in the story and how his plays all tied into the identity struggle Allyson was having.
Her identity struggle gave the story so much depth and it just made for one of those contemporaries that's packed with meaning yet also has a great romance.
I enjoyed this book! Definitely not what I expected but I'm pleasantly surprised. I really did enjoy the story line and progression. The character development was amazing. Although, I found myself skimming a bit during the middle due to the fact that I felt that some parts just dragged on. However, the last several chapters were fantastic which made up for it!
Really enjoyed this book!Read it in JUST ONE DAY, here's my full detailed review: http://youtu.be/mbnVejUX0Bc =)
After reading and loving If I Stay and Where She Went by Gayle Forman, I was thrilled to hear Ms. Forman was working on a new novel, Just One Day. Just One Day was a bittersweet story that entranced me, took hold of my heart, and gave it a great big squeeze!
The first third of the book had a dreamy but achy quality to it, because she’s spending this amazing but intense day with Willem, and you know it won’t last.
At that point on Allyson basically goes through a big depression and I felt like I went through it with her.
But what I am sure of is how happy I am to have finally read a Gayle Forman novel.
But then, the next thing I know things have gotten so widely out of control.And soon after, I'm once again craving my comfort box.But enough about me...What I loved about Just One Day is how Allyson both loses herself that day in Paris and later finds herself over the course of a year afterwards.
The feeling of enlightenment I had with Just One Day was very similar to how I felt while reading Wanderlove, which also features a girl searching for answers, but ends up finding so much more.Then, of course, you have the fantastic setting of Paris.
Exceptional author and loved this duet!
My reaction upon finishing this book: Son of a...The book started off great at first, it was easy to get into.
And then I got bored and wanted to "solve the mystery" of what went wrong, plus I was tired of the main character being so annoyingly mopey...
so I started speed reading.
And then finally I had jumped to the end...
Books should have a real ending, even if they are just part 1 of whatever...I probably should go back and actually read all the pages that I skimmed but I wasn't enjoying them when I was invested in the book and how I'm too aggravated to want to read them.
MY DAY WAS JUST MADE.PS: If the book's coming out in 2013, then the world will obviously not end in 2012, pff.
Willem tries to encapsulate the beautiful experience of Paris for Allyson, but she ends up with leaving more than she bargained for, that would affect her whole outlook on life months later, returning to the US Allyson is a changed person.The last time I felt so much love for a book was when I read Gayle Forman’s Where She Went in Just One Day. Just One Day had the same achy, raw lingering effect on me but it was that much more profound.
Anything can happen in just one day.'Admittedly, I do believe I started this when I was in the completely wrong sort of mood.
They have one single day in Paris and it ended up being the most random, jumbled and seemingly unenjoyable day.
If I had a single day in Paris and I needed to nap I'd be pounding the red bulls and trying to get the most I could out of that day.'We kiss again.
But I didn’t feel it while reading this and I was left dumbfounded and confused to what Willem did exactly to evoke such a long-lasting reaction.
I think the early readers of If I Stay will agree with me when I say we never considered the possibility that Forman would deliver a second installment to her beloved novel.
I, for one, was ecstatic to hear she would continue Mia’s story, and when I stumbled upon the final pages of Where She Went, I was left with a feeling of pure bliss and cemented fandom for this author’s stories.To hear she was coming out with a new novel, Just One Day, had me pulling out my dancing shoes and running in circles in pure excitement.
And while all of those expectations were met, and in fact exceeded, I came across quite a few surprises along the way - such as the fact that Just One Day is filled with truly hysterical passages and moments - which I don't say very often about books, especially not about books in the YA genre, considering the fact that I have the sense of humor that will have me inevitably burning in hell, and most YA novels don't cross that particular boundary to meet my sense of humor - and the fact that I'd be so engaged with Allyson and Willem's travels in such a short amount of time.
This book is...theraputic.
and you come out of it like a different person.
Like Allyson.
Gayle Forman writes differently in each of her books which is quite magnificent!!!
The ending leaves you a bit in a 'what just happened?' but at the same time you don't really need to know.
Though i DO want to read 'Just one year' so i'll know what the freaking hell has Willem being doing all this time xD It reminded me of 'Before Sunrise' and then 'Serendipity' and then 'Eat,Pray,Love' all of them amazing movies :D ♥Brilliant,real,motivating,beautiful,sad,hopeful..i can keep on going.
JUST READ IT.
Like, Allyson and Willem's "love affair" should've taken place in a dumpster for all the value it added to the overall story of Allyson's "coming-of-age" character arc.And what was up with Willem only ever calling Allyson "Lulu" JUST BECAUSE he thought she looked like some actress named Louise Brooks, and SHE WENT ALONG WITH IT??
*eye rolling, but the eye roll that actually kind of strains your eyes for a few painful seconds*So, if you couldn't gather by the title, Allyson spends a day in Paris with Willem, a boy she just met the night before after watching him perform in a traveling Shakespeare acting group.
I have a lot of friends who love If I Stay so I thought I would give her new series a try.
Reading this story I realized something about myself - I like my characters to be together.
The characters were separated at 35% and didn't reunite until (view spoiler)[ the very last page and it was a cliffhanger ending.
(hide spoiler)] For my taste that was too long and boring for it to be told in one POV and not know what was happening with the other character.
And we can fall in love in one day.
Anything can happen in just one day.
SERIES:
Cliffhanger["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Um Dia é quanto basta...Ao fechar este livro, veio-me à memória uma frase esquecida:Este é o primeiro dia do resto da Tua VidaPor vezes...um dia é quanto basta para nos perdermos e encontrarmos!
3.7/5 stars[image error]Being a huge fan of Forman's, I was absolutely ecstatic when I heard she'd be writing another 2-book story centered around a couple and told from both their POVs. I'm happy (and more than a little relieved, considering my track record so far this year) to report that Just One Day lives up to the hype, and while I had a few minor problems with the story, I still ended up immensely enjoying it.I wasn't too impressed with Allyson at the beginning, and with "Lulu" even less.
Aún así me ha gustado bastante y la he disfrutado.Es cierto que Sólo un día no ha cumplido mis expectativas.
De todos modos la he disfrutado mucho porque Forman tiene una pluma única.Sólo un día tiene una historia entretenida, fácil de leer y que se disfruta.
Es diferente y especial.Sin duda el final me ha gustado muchísimo, ha sido muy diferente a como esperaba y totalmente impredecible.En resumen, Sólo un día es una primera parte de bilogía que se disfruta mucho, con una historia especial y única, con una protagonista que pisa muy fuerte y que es demasiado risueña y con una prosa singular y diferente.
