https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26827675-troublemaker
I'm going to admit. When I heard the this book was coming out I was curious and then I thought..so why did she stay in that religion so long if it's so crazy? Is she nuts? I'm so damn nosey about stuff like this though. I want to know the secrets without having to enter into the realm of the crazy. Shut up, Xenu. My ass is broke so I can't fork over enough dough for you anyways. Plus, I'm a bit on the big mouth side like Leah Remini...but think the southern version of her.  Upon starting this bo
Plus, I'm a bit on the big mouth side like Leah Remini...but think the southern version of her.
Her mom is a flower child and gets interested in Scientology and eventually brings Leah and her sister into the group.The girls and their mom end up in Florida but Leah is pretty much a girl that is not going to keep her mouth shut.
(I'm not spoiling on the good stuff)Leah starts questioning the religion and they sure as shit don't like it.
I want to know why any religion would pretty much bend over and kiss Tom Cruise's ass?
But, you do get to see an "insider's" view of what really happens in the Sea Org. It's basically slave labor in squalid conditions, but hey, you get to do free Scientology training while you're there!
Apparently, Tom's dates and girlfriends are vetted by the Scientology people.Leah goes into a lot of information that is already common knowledge about Scientology.
There was more about Sea Org and Tom Cruise, as mentioned above.
She's brave because she mentions Scientology people by name and goes into detail about their behavior (lots of infidelity, immature behavior like taking Leah's phone and taunting her, threats, etc.).
If the Church Cult of Scientology  doesn't horrify you, then you don't know enough.  By their actions, they will show you who they are.  Leah Remini was indoctrinated into the Cult at a young age by her mother. Her mother, stuck in an abusive relationship, broke free with the help of the "benevolent" Cult. Little did she know that she was signing away her family's freedom.As a result, Leah spent many of her formative years internalizing and projecting their beliefs. Her "basic training" consiste
She'd have to pay 'repercussion' fees and publicly apologize for things that the Cult said she did wrong.This book is absolutely fascinating.
I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT when this book comes out, Scientologists will scream about religious intolerance, say that I am a liar, that I was kicked out of the church, and call Troublemaker the work of a hateful bigot or a self-absorbed person...What they will likely not do, however, is actually read this book, because that would be going against one of the basic tenets of Scientology.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Oh Leah. Leah, Leah, Leah . . .  While this book had my curiosity peaked (EDIT: like a peak higher than Mt. Everest, Ron) upon release (I mean who DOESN’T want to know about the Cult of Personality Scientology at this point, right?) I didn’t have plans on reading it. Why, you may ask? Mainly because I had almost convinced myself the story would be nothing but bullshit before even reading the blurb. Leah Remini’s run on a successful tel
While this book had my curiosity peaked (EDIT: like a peak higher than Mt. Everest, Ron) upon release (I mean who DOESN’T want to know about the Cult of Personality Scientology at this point, right?) I didn’t have plans on reading it.
Ew. And finally, I’m not like Carrie at all ------ but I am pretty much Molly .
Well, to begin with I’m a lot more like Leah Remini than I thought.
Okay, maybe I’m EXACTLY like Leah Remini.I also learned she was pretty much born and bred into Scientology.
I tend to listen to autobiographies on audio because I love hearing stories in the voice of the teller.
And I've been a huge fan of Remini for years because she's hilarious such a badass in my eyes.
So I purchased this without any second guesses and was not disappointed.
This was absolutely excellent, horrifying, hilarious, disturbing and addictive.
It reads like a mystery/thriller and then I'd remember it's real life and become super horrified on a loop.
But I could not stop listening.
Probably one of the best autobiographies I've listened to so far and a superb audio narration.
Cognitive dissonance!In some ways it was the usual celebrity memoir portraying Remini as a bit of an airhead but quite entertaining and with lots of nasty gossip about Kirsty Alley and Tom Cruise (view spoiler)[whom I had lunch with and he was just ordinary, a nice guy, not egotistical, but very handsome (hide spoiler)] et al.
However, I just recently read another book about Scientology: Beyond Belief: My Secret Life Inside Scientology and My Harrowing Escape by Jenna Miscavige Hill and Lisa Pulitzer, that was suggested to me by a Goodreads' friend.
That book was fantastic and sparked my interest in learning more about Scientology.
She starts off telling you everything that is wrong with her and her whole family, because she knew Scientology would try to "tare her apart" when this book came out.
I suggest this book to anyone that wants to learn more about Scientology or Leah!
5-stars I may write an in-depth review after I’ve had time to think on this one some.
It's very tempting to write a detailed review laying the whole thing out, but I’m going to try to refrain from doing that; people really need to get this right from Leah Remini.
Suffice it for now to say Scientology is absolutely a cult that's every bit as crazy as you've ever heard, Tom Cruise is absolutely an epic asshole--they totally deserve each other--and I have a new respect for Leah Remini.
I’m so very glad to have read this and so very glad she was able to extricate herself from such madness.
Teach your children critical thinking skills, people!
3 stars. 2017 The Most Average of Average Award I will not be writing a review for this one.I guess in a way...that is my review.
Unlike most celebrity tell-all's Leah Remini doesn't try to paint herself as perfect or attempt to whitewash her past. She starts the book by telling you about all her faults & I think it makes her all the more believable. Troublemaker is a harrowing glimpse inside a cult that paints itself as a religion. A must read.
While this isn't the most well written book around, the audio version is magnetic and you won't be able to turn away.I loved, loved, loved listening to Leah Remini tell her story.
I've already read a ton and watched a ton about the cult of Scientology and the crooks that run it, so those aspects of the story weren't anything new to me.
However, I felt so, so bad for Leah having to discover that everything that she had known was a lie.
Also, the chapters dealing with how children are treated in Scientology were very hard to swallow.
An excellent listen, and totally worth your time and money.
I love Leah Remini.
When I decided to read her memoir: Troublemaker, I expected a lot more comedy than I got.
She discusses her childhood, her family, her entry into the church of Scientology, and her career as an actress.
I knew next to nothing about Scientology before reading Leah's book so I feel like I learned a lot.
It wasn't all bad either so for that I have even more respect and admiration for Leah.
If prompting her church to consider this made Leah a troublemaker, then it seems she is resolved to keep making trouble.
I need this book now.
“There is no shortage of people who would be willing to say “Leah can be an asshole”—my own mother can attest to that. And if I am all these things the church may claim, then isn’t it also accurate to say that in the end, thirty-plus years of dedication, millions of dollars spent, and countless hours of study and training didn’t really “fix” me? Perhaps Scientology doesn’t work.” Good question. And wow! Millions of dollars spent for a religion. Why would anybody do that? Why must people be fixe
And if I am all these things the church may claim, then isn’t it also accurate to say that in the end, thirty-plus years of dedication, millions of dollars spent, and countless hours of study and training didn’t really “fix” me?
Millions of dollars spent for a religion.
Why must people be fixed in the way scientology approves of?
Young adults should have fun, not drink coffee in order to make it through a hard day of manual labor.
“I was more than aware of the Fair Game policy, which stipulates that anyone against Scientology “may be deprived of property or injured by any means by any Scientologist without any discipline of the Scientologist.
4.5 eye opening stars !I wasn't a fan of her before I listened to this.
When I ended her story I was her fan, not for her acting but for her mouth, her loud never cower attitude.
She stood, faced the ugly giant Church of Scientology bullies, lost many "friends" and gained her true self, with true friends.I did not expect to enjoy this.
I went into it expecting to drop it.
Leah, is a fabulous story telling, so honest, and open about such important and personal years.
Educational !Bravo Leah !
Imagine being 'controlled' in your daily life but still being open to give your heart and time when needed - to me that is real STRENGTH.This book is probably 75% Leah Remini biography and 25% the wrongs of Scientology, by her own admission a lot of negative stuff about the church was carefully edited out to make Leah not look like a "poor loser".
The Scientology stuff is not in depth, more a tell tale of what Leah saw and was subjected to.
This book shows the true person that Leah is, how she faced up to the Church and how she survived without really changing her ways.
I do not have any respect whatsoever for Scientology; I cannot believe that any true religion that is interested in having you better yourself and better the world, would charge you money to do so.
(And decades later, after Leah becomes a celebrity, during an "audit" where you have to discuss things you've done wrong in your life, when she admits that she stole food, they assess her a fine of $40,000.00 to make up for her "crimes"?
"Belief and faith are great, but very few people have been led astray by thinking for themselves."I finished this book at one AM on a work night, when I had to be up at 6 AM the next morning.
She walks you through the whole thing, her way of thinking, how and why the religion meant so much to her, what her life was like because of it.
That's how cults work--they are designed to hook people and keep them.Leah Remini's book is a fascinating artifact of a person who survived a cult.
I was intrigued about Leah's story since she hit headlines when she left the "church" of Scientology.
I finally got my hands on a copy- audio, and immediately fell in love with it.
She is a very specific character and knows who she is to the point, that it was like she was sitting next to me telling me her very personal story.
I don't know which to recommend more- the audio, which was incredible, or the book- as that displayed some good pictures throughout the book.
The Scientology sections flow together while Leah auditions for many roles, and finally lands her major break.
This was really good. It was equally about Leah and Scientology. If you're interested in Scientology, you should definitely read this. Sometimes reading biographies makes me like the person less but this book made me like Leah Remini a lot more.
Scientology is going to be sooooo pissed! This book is good, dishy and fall down funny. Leah is loud, brash and very NY. LOVE IT!!update: So I just finished this book. OMG it DOES NOT disappoint! It's deliciously dishy and totally in your face like Leah herself.Boiled down it's the classic story of a person leaving an extremist religious group/cult. If you enjoyed Deborah Feldman's UnOrthadox, you'll love this book!
When I realized that I had to read a biography for my reading challenge with the Machalo chicks this year, I was like, "No, please God, No!!
Yet, it still comes off as bat-shit crazy - along with being an extremely dangerous cult.This book will make you so angry that you will want to kill Tom Cruise with a roll of cookie dough.
I'm just really glad that she was able to get out of it and is helping others who are going through the same thing.On the other hand, there is a lot of money to be made in starting a "religion" like this.
This is a fantastic, insider account of the 'church' and it is different (and more interesting, IMO) than other stories/books about Scientology since, AS a celebrity, Remini was granted access to people and events that ordinary Scientologists do not get to experience.
--Jen from Quebec :0) (PS) This book was written BEFORE the creation of her documentary style television show about the Church of Scientology - I am sure that if she had written this book NOW, she would have access to a hell of a lot more information due to her research for A&E.
I've loved Leah Remini since watching her on The King of Queens. She's funny and raw. When I heard about her autobiography, I knew I had to read it. But when I found out there was an audiobook version and Leah Remini herself narrated it, I had to listen to it. “How the fuck did you get into some crazy shit like this?” Who better to narrate Leah's story than Leah herself? Just as the title suggests, this memoir is mainly about Hollywood and Scientology. Having watched Going Clear, the documentary
I've loved Leah Remini since watching her on The King of Queens.
But when I found out there was an audiobook version and Leah Remini herself narrated it, I had to listen to it.
“How the fuck did you get into some crazy shit like this?”
There's also a little tiny bit about her daughter Sofia.I don't read too many biographies/memoirs but this was a good one.
If you are a fan of Leah Remini, you should read this book.
Better yet, listen to the audiobook version to get a first hand experience.20/20 Interview with Leah Remini on Scientology
Combative, inquisitive, and argumentative is how Leah Remini describes herself.
So from a very young age, Leah was brainwashed or indoctrinated into the "church" of Scientology and Tom Cruise's odd ways.
(The quotes are mine as I don't understand how this cult with all its hate and greed can be called a church, but then many might argue the same about most religions.)What you see with Leah is definitely what you get.
Ms Remini narrated the audio in her famous New York accent, which added to the authenticity.
I have read several "tell-all" books from those who've left Scientology so a lot of what I saw here isn't really new.
I suppose many of you are aware that Tom Cruise's reaction to this book has been mentioned in the news.So, there is some interesting discussion of the "church" of Scientology.
In this case it's done very much in an "earthy" way from our writer who tells things in her own way.
Read this within a day. It is well written. Remini reflects also her earlier years with Scientology. Like expected pretty shocking and disturbing. Tom Cruise gets a lot of attention from her.So glad for Leah Remini that she is now free of these inhuman behaviour and can live her life with her family. I hope, she will find peace with herself.
Ms. Remini's has no such qualms in giving her insider look at Scientology's empire, risking not just excommunication from the church, but from most all of her friends and family (nearly all of them Scientologists themselves) to put the truth out there.
Ok, she's not as OT (original Thetan?) as L Ron Hubbard, but fully 3/4ths of her 40-some years have been spent with the church.
Few know that institution better than her, and she's gutsy/disgruntled enough to share her harrowing stories with us: from her teen years with the Sea-Org to her dealings with current church leader David Miscavige.
I knew Scientology was kind of crazy, but this was still surprising.
Though I did notice that Leah didn't discuss the exact details of the beliefs behind Scientology, just some of the basics of how things work.
I will say she seemed oddly fixated on Tom Cruise who seems to be main catalyst for her break with the religion.
Though definitely there's a lot of other things she now realizes were not right with the other people, the system, and the financial demands of the religion.
I thought I knew the insanity of Scientology until I watched the HBO documentary, Going Clear, several months ago.
Since then I have been fascinated with the people who have renounced themselves from the cult and have been bold enough to speak the truth of their lives in and now out of the evil philosophy, brainwashing and warped teachings of L.
I have a greater respect for Leah Remini and her willingness to be bold and honest in revealing the truth not only of her own shortcomings and mistakes but especially of the leaders of such a warped cult.
