https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1175194.Rivals_of_the_Chalet_School

I didn't think this one would be so up there because the girls were not really my favourites - my 'era' is that of Bride Bettany and I never loved Joey as much as you're meant to, and the Robin just annoys me.
At one point one CS girl remarks to her friend in French how rude these newcomers are, which of course the Saints hear.
(I guess it's much less dramatic too when you're reading these after the next 57 have all been written so you know that Joey obviously doesn't die.)
Another lovely book. Some funny stories with the rival school. Sad there's less of Joey and Madge in the stories now though. I couldn't stop laughing about the corn flour in the hair!! Hilarious.
A different race who can't really play games, like the Brits...oops, the 1928 Olympic Medal Table and the 11930 World Cup suggest otherwise - although, obviously we're talking mainly about men there, not jolly schoolgirls.But if you have doubts about EBD's genius, I was taken aback by her description of Vera Smithers.
I have read several books and many articles that attempt to explain sociopaths and psychopaths; EBD manages it just a couple of pages, in a description of this girl's character.
The introduction of another school across the lake is a bit of a clumsy plot device and the casual racism from its pupils is....
I'm not someone who is particularly offended by books reflecting the period in which they were written (this might seem a strange thing to say, but there are, amazingly, people who are.
And, even more amazingly, people who are offended by the lack of feminism and of financially independent women in Jane Austen.
Go figure) so the racism didn't faze me much.
To top it off, they have "appropriated" the name of a local saint, who just happens to be Saint Scolastika!Of course Joey isn't about to put up with this, so she and her cohorts decide to put the "Saints" firmly in their places.
Refusal on the part of the new school students to "buck up and play the game" (ie act like us)2.
"Delicate" Joey comes out of her adventure "stronger than ever." Of course.
Volume 6 will take us to a new character and term, so forget hearing about the holidays or the wedding party.
She takes the threat of winter to its most ridiculously and enjoyably extreme in Rivals Of The Chalet School: a book which not only sees the girls deal with snow blizzards, cracking ice and collapsing cliff-faces, but introduces a new school across the lake.
The girls of St Scholastika's a.k.a. the Saints are, of course, the bitter rivals of the title.A few years after Madge Russell (nee Bettany) established the Chalet School in the Tiernsee, a certain Miss Browne has the same idea.
It's more than ten years since I last read this - perhaps nearer twenty - and I'd pretty much forgotten it.I knew the overall plot was about a rival girls' school that opens at the other end of the lake, and the rivalry that develops between the two schools.
However the many sub-plots seemed new to me, and as ever the characterisation is very good.
But the educational and medical methods were probably radically modern in the late 1920s when this was first written.All in all, great nostalgic reading :-)
Um, I actually teared up while reading this today.
An ice skating incident results in Joey almost dying, and everyone staggers around weeping for a few chapters (hence my prickling eyes mentioned above).We get to see a little bit of Madge's parenting skills, in which she gently exerts the discipline she uses on the girls in getting her baby son to go to sleep at his usual hour.
All those exhausted mothers out there merely need to take some lessons from Madge's firm discipline, apparently.Eventually the two schools come to a fairly fragile peace.
I really enjoyed this one - I haven't read it before, and it was fun filling in some gaps (like how the Saints were established and so on).
One of the more entertaining Chalet School books, featuring Joey and her pals Frieda and Marie.
A new English school is established, right there on the Tiernsee!
What nerve!
Naturally there are hijinks and rivalry that lead to a near-disaster (as always).
The most interesting aspect is the way the girls of St. Scholastika are developed, especially open-minded Gipsy and the evil Elaine.
Turns out, Elaine just needed to join Girl Guides for everything to come out all right in the end!2016 Re-read: I find it holds up well in a second reading, this time the Girls Gone by edition.
The unabridged editions really are superior.
Very much a story of growing-up; the transition between school-girlish pranks and the beginnings of responsible adulthood.Just reading a few Chalet School books is more than enough to form an opinion that EMBD was obsessed with storylines of infectious diseases. In this book it's chicken pox. But there again, in EMBD was writing in an age where microbiology as a science was in its infancy, and antibiotics unknown. Something that's too easy for us to take for granted today.
Although I've read this many times through the years, this is the first time I've read the original unabridged version.The pupils at the Chalet School ought to be thrilled to hear that another school is opening on the shores of the Tiernsee, finally they will have opponents to play hockey, cricket, tennis, and more against. But instead they resent the newcomers. And the bad blood between the two schools quickly escalates. Will it end before a terrible tragedy occurs?
This was one of my favourite books as a child and I enjoyed it again as an adult. It is so easy to feel the emotions of both sides - Elinor does such a great job at making sure you know who is in the right and who is in the wrong whilst not hating anyone too much so it can all (mostly) turn out all right in the end.
It was good to read this as an Unabridged version and I really liked it. I realised that the edition I have missed out a lot.The plot centres around the fact that another school has moved into the area and that the new schools pupils think that they are better than the Chalet School. Interesting how things work out and the changes that happen to a number of the pupils in both schools.
One of the best Chalets, and one that gets a lot of references in subsequent books. There's not much of a plot (a rival school opens nearby and the two schools don't get on) but it's packed with incident, and EBD's characters are at their brightest and best.
I have read this so many times I really love this book
