https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22695.Summer_Sisters
3.5 starsI LOVED Judy Blume books when I was growing up.
One of my favorite memories is reading her books over and over!This is my first adult Judy Blume book.
I honestly wasn't sure if I would read any of her newer books.
Like most friendships theirs is not without its struggles and hasn't always been easy, in the past or the present.
A good summer read....or in the winter when want to think about summer!The Judy Blume from my youth will always be my favorite but all in all this was a very enjoyable read!
I hated everyone, and while that can sometimes be a brilliant ploy by a writer to make a social or political statement (Fitzgerald comes to mind), I think Blume wants readers to connect with AT LEAST Victoria, who narrates the majority of the book.The framework is another beef of mine.
Throughout the book, Victoria's narrative is interrupted by brief third-person narrations of her friends and family.
If you can't develop your characters through the central narrative, then you failed; either give them some weight to earn their special voice, or just let them go.I really wanted to like this book, and it has a couple of moments.
I read this book every summer, mostly because it does such a great job of capturing the essence of the season.
(I actually prefer to read it when it's still a little cold outside so I can be transported to warmer weather, but for the past few years it's been so hard to find time to get it in!) Anyway, if you define a favorite book as one you want to read again and again, this is definitely one of my favorites.
At times, it gets to be a little bit too much, but for the most part, I think it creates a more powerful story.
I like that Vix and Caitlin were born the same years as me, it was easy to relate to that.
I didn't come from a rich family nor a struggling blue-collar family.
But I could understand the feeling of trying so hard but not quite fitting in.
And looking at the 2 of them and their families, you see that nurture versus nature struggle.
Vix, you didn't have the benefit of money becomes a responsible, caring adult.
But I still wonder how Vix could remain friends with Caitlin through the years.
I hated the sad ending and feeling of things not being settled.
I think my next big kids read will be the infamous Harriet the Spy which I loved and totally identified with as a child.
I had grown up; time to see if Judy did.One of the things I enjoyed as a kid was Blume's realism and frankness.
The novel was just too much for me, and so, although the storyline was interesting, I finally gave up and closed the pages for good when the girls started discussing their experiments with oral sex.The characters were realistic and credible, but I guess just too nitty gritty for me.
I loved this book when I read it because it reminded me so much of the weird relationship I had with my best friend growing up.
The ending surprised me quite a bit, and I have to say that at first I wasn't crazy about it because I don't like being left in limbo, but after thinking about it a bit I realized the story was wrapped up just fine.I would definitely recommend this book to my chicas, it's a fun read and it will definitely take you back to a much simpler time (sort of).
It was seasonally appropriate and took me down memory lane in more ways than one...reminiscing about how complicated teenage female relationships can be and how people who know you in your formative years probably see you differently than anyone else in your life.However, overall I thought the book was uneven.
So I concede your point there that she did recognize why Vix and Bru could not have a future.My last problem with the book (which you actually liked) was the different perspectives.
I don't think it added anything to the story and, if anything, it telegraphed the fact that Gus and Vix were going to end up together.Personally, I felt this was a soapy yet underdeveloped novel.
Not a book you read. A book you devour. Unsurprisingly, there are few reviews by men here. But I think any male writing writing female characters (in this case female friendships) could benefit from reading Blume. And, yes. This is a great hot summer read, best read on a dock.
Their friendship starts around age 12/13, and the book ends some 15-18 years later.The parents of both girls have all kinds of problems -- Caitlin's mom (Phoebe) is a gorgeous rich woman, jet-setting around the world and sleeping with young men.
There are other problems, but I'll let the reader find them when reading!Some of the things I enjoyed were the way Vix and Caitlin saw the world in the beginning.
At the end of the book do you feel better, or worse for having read it?
Like so many of the other reviewers, I was a huge Judy Blume fan growing up.
I really responded to her honest portrayals of teenaged girls and boys, and of the complex relationships they have with each other, their friends, and their parents.
I think that truthfully, if it were NOT Ms. Blume who had written this book, I'd score it a bit higher.
And since the whole idea is that we are meant to care about these two women and mourn the betrayal and the loss of their 'sisterhood', the whole premise felt, to me, weak and flimsy.
"Caitlin Somers chose me as her summer sister because I was smart but quiet. She knew I wouldn't ask a million questions and get in the way." Vix is surprised when beautiful and popular Caitlin Somers asks her to spend the summer with her and her family at Martha's Vineyard the year they were both in 6th grade. How could she refuse? What follows is a sweeping narrative of the bond these "summer sisters" share throughout years of adventures, side by side and separated, both good and bad that wil
"Caitlin Somers chose me as her summer sister because I was smart but quiet.
Vix is surprised when beautiful and popular Caitlin Somers asks her to spend the summer with her and her family at Martha's Vineyard the year they were both in 6th grade.
Judy Blume, who introduced me to the Tales of a Fourth Grade Nothing and Freckle Juice, now graces us with this addictive coming-of-age story told from multiple POVs that swept me in and held me until the very last page.It has everything you want in a summer book: adventure, conflict, sexual tension, humor, heartache, celebration.
All the presumably well-intentioned messages and general nostalgic goodwill notwithstanding, the fact remains that Judy Blume is the Larry Clark of young adult fiction, and her trashy "adult" novels belie this.
Without the hassle of having to walk twelve-year-olds through puberty, Blume is free to make a beeline for the sweaty, grunting raunch.
It's kind of a steaming clod, but you could easily read it on the beach while inadequately supervising your sister's kids.
Let's see..."Ramona Quimby, Age 8" came out in about 1981...so she'd be, what, around 34 now?
You can't tell me "Ramona and Her Sex-Starved Lesbian Roommate" wouldn't sell.
These are the kinds of thoughts "Summer Sisters" inspires.
I loved Judy Blume as a kid. I had no idea that she wrote books for adults until my last library visit. When I happened about this book, I was anxious to enjoy some more of the author I had loved as a little girl. However, her books for adults leave a lot to be desired. This book was basically about a lot of really selfish people having a lot of really random sex and ruining a lot of people's lives. I wasn't a fan.
HORRIBLE!!! This is the first book that I actually returned to the library without finishing it. I think I made it to chapter 7 or so and just couldn't take it anymore. BORING... Enough about pre-adolescent girls feeling each other up. Stick to kids books Judy.
These characters are such shallow creations, and they never quite matured.
Even by the end of the book, where real introspection could occur, it was barely touched on.The characters felt like caricatures.
I felt like the writing was almost lazy using these perspectives to gain our understanding of the girls and their story instead of just writing the story better.
Then, we finally get to the end, when the middle felt excessively long, and the parts I really wanted to know about were glossed over.
One of the appeals of a good book for me is character growth.
I read this book every year to kick off my summer and I love it each time. This book never gets old.
I loved this book! It was written so beautifully. I was in awe of this story of two girls and their friendship over the years. The story was bittersweet and sad, it had a profound effect on me. I highly recommend it.
It's hard to say that I liked this book, because a small part of it I did but about 60% I did not, due to filthy scenes and discussions...
Blah, blah, blah, Caitlin spends her college money jet-setting around the world while Vix toils tirelessly in college, finally realizing that she doesn't want a relationship with a blue collar guy like Bru, who can't discuss books with her.
(Yawn...) Caitlin beds every guy she can (and some girls) and eventually settles down and has a child, which she, in keeping with her character, abandons to the child's father, Bru. Oh, Caitlin finally does end up marrying Bru, much to the dismay of Vix. The reasoning behind this sudden romantic attraction is never explained.
The cookie cutter characters, the underdevelopment of them, but I'll be damned if I wasn't invested at the end and choked up with how these people’s lives all turned out.It did take me quite a while to get into the story.
The majority of the book is told from when they were young girls though, which did make it feel slightly young adult to me.
I can and cannot understand why Vix would want to be her friend.
It was sad how her other friends urged her to let Caitlin go, but she never could.
I read this for a book club otherwise I wouldn't have finished it.
This book left me feeling dirty (and not "good" dirty).
I could not relate to the characters - how can you keep a friend who lies and backstabs and treats you like that?
Are there situations like that in real life?
I'm sure, but I don't feel that is anything I need to read about.
I read lots of romance novel so I don't have a problem with risque story lines but his book left me very uncomfortable.
Honestly, I didn't read more than the first few chapters, but BE WARNED. This is not the Judy Blume of my youth. Forget "Fudge" and "Freckle Juice". This novel is dirty, inappropriate and an attempt for her to address adult issues in the lives of young girls. I was disappointed and I am not longer a fan of Judy Blume.
How did it make it to nearly 30 without this treasure in my life? Perfect solo beach day read.
Another great book from Judy Blume, the Summer Sisters discusses the issue of two girl’s life.
Caitlin and Victoria (Vix) who spends almost every summer together developed a strong relationship.
Vix live in a poorer family than Caitlin needs to earn her money to college and future.
Caitlin lived in a rich family with supportive father and step mother but she is always held back by her royalty to her real mother.
Judy Blume explains emotion really real and the book turned out to develop the feeling of jealousy, happiness and all kind of real feeling you get from families and friends.
I kept waiting for a story to emerge but none did.
This book was dull beyond description, the characters were flat, one-dimensional.
Blume wrote in a point-of-view that was constantly flitting from one unimportant character to the next.
These characters are barely part of the story as it is.
The only point of view we never read is Caitlin's and in doing this Blume made her just slightly interesting because her motives were mysterious, her flaws were deep and complexities were revealed very late in the book.
The last twenty or thirty pages were the only interesting part of this story but not interesting enough to compensate for the rest it.
My boyfriend's sister gave me this book to read when we visited her in Eugene, OR. I read the whole thing on the plane between Portland and Norfolk. So, it's a fast read! I also had a friend when I was a girl who was like a sister to me, and although we didn't spent as much time exploring our "Power" as the girls in this book, there was a lot I could relate to. It's not life-changing writing, but it's an interesting story with unique, funny characters.
What a brilliant novel. Like some others have said, I loved Judy Blume's books as a kid so was interested to find this novel for adults. I was pleasantly surprised and blown away at the detail of this book.This was the best book I had read - possibly still remains my favourite book of all.I highly recommend it.
I'm sure I read some of her works in my younger years (Roald Dahl was more my jam, though, and later Christopher Pike, before transitioning to books for adults).
But this is (supposedly) a book for adults.
Again, that's fine, but they say things like "the Power" when referring to female arousal and "the Package" when talking about male genitalia.
Look, Arab men can be mad stoic, but there no question my dad loves me and my siblings, or that my brother loves his kids!
Caitlin is super shallow BUT GORGEOUS AND EVERYONE LOVES HER.
I wish I knew what magic makes a book so compelling that you just get sucked right into it and look up hours later, thinking, “I should go to bed, but just a few more pages, but ohhh I’m really going to be sorry when my alarm goes off at 5:30, but just a few more pages, ohhh what the heck okay another chapter.”In another author’s hands, maybe, this would not have been that kind of book.
The characters were not especially complex and yet I just wanted to know what happened, what they did, why did they do it, and yes I even needed a few Kleenex at the end.
I loved it!
This book really inched it's way up to the 5-star rating I gave it.
It started out feeling like a 3, for me, as I questioned why there were so many names and characters and yet no one was like-able...
to a 4, when the story got moving and everyone became complex and wildly interesting...
to a 4.5, where I was so invested in these characters and every chapter of their lives...
This feels like a book you think about more and more in the days after finishing it, one that sticks with you.
