https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2155366.The_History_of_Witchcraft_and_Demonology
A lot of people hate Montague Summers, but I have a big, warm, soft spot in my heart for the man.
His views on witchcraft could just as easily have come from the pen of a cloistered monk in medieval Germany, with the caveat that most medieval people were considerably more aware of what "witches" actually were and wrote against them for openly polemical reasons more than attempting to produce a real, historically useful record.
In sum, Montague Summers is extremely interesting from the perspective of occult history, but not for his factual accuracy as much as his fervent stance against what he saw as a dangerous rise of witchcraft in his own lifetime and society.
This man writes about the supposedly lewd practices of the devil-worshiping diabolical witch as though he wishes he could have been there.
He tends to wander a bit in his writing.
Having read his entry on werewolves before picking up any of his other works I find it impossible to take anything he says seriously.I see that some other readers on here have it tagged as belonging in Wiccan reference?
This book's subject has absolutely nothing to do with the Wiccan religion, its beliefs or its practices.
This man writes about the supposedly lewd practices of the devil-worshiping diabolical witch as though he wishes he could have been there.
He tends to wander a bit in his writing.
Having read his entry on werewolves before picking up any of his other works I find it impossible to take anything he says seriously.I see that some other readers on here have it tagged as belonging in Wiccan reference?
This book's subject has absolutely nothing to do with the Wiccan religion, its beliefs or its practices.
I had the oppurtunity to read this book at my community college.
It was an original first printing...it was behind a glass door...I needed to ask for a key!In short, I detest this man but found this book very interesting because of how extreme his views were and how far this man was willing to go in the name of the church.
There are long rants in this book.
It is a historically interesting book written by a man who claimed to know much about the occult but knew nothing at all.
Are you suffering from insomnia?Has excessive exercise of logic, based on facts, made you irritable,
An historical curio which buys into a lot of the Christian fiction surrounding witchcraft and demonology; likely the same hysteria which prompted Anton LaVey to later say: "The Devil is the best friend the Church has ever had, as it has kept it in business all these years."
I read this book as part of my research for a fictional book I'm working on. I was hoping to gain some more insight into Witchcraft. While I did learn a few interesting facts from this book, for the most part, it was a little boring.
In that context, I intended merely to employ the witchcraft theme in a light and humorous vein.
However, the premise of the History of Witchcraft, was unexpected and thought-provoking.
Montague Summers, a pious English clergyman and accomplished writer, truly believed in the existence of witchcraft and refuted the notion that it was nothing more than folklore or ignorant superstition.
The History of Witchcraft is extremely well written in a Dickensian literary style.
It delves methodically into a trove of detailed information from Biblical times, through to the Mediaeval era and modern times, repeatedly affirming the author's literal belief in witchcraft as a genuine and evil phenomena even in our day.
Montague Summers seems entirely convinced that witchcraft happened, but he overlooks the fact that these demonic activities and black magic rituals were largely conceived out of irrational fear.
I enjoyed the bits about Pythagorean treatment of demons and his inclusion of the rite of exorcism, as well as the rooster's relationship with witches.
I don't know how accurate his information is, and I could argue with him all day long , but this book is very entertaining, to say the least, and introduces the reader to the vast realm of demonological scholarship.
Written in a terribly distracting, archaic academic style. The one saving grace (ha!) was the author's (a Catholic priest) seeming literal belief in The Devil, devil worship, and so on--which was disturbing, sad and comical. It read like something from the medieval era, although the 20's Catholic Church probably wasn't very far removed from that, anyway. An interesting point in that regard was the author's blatant anti-Semitism, in which he connected devil worship with Jews.
My copy is titled just 'The history of witchcraft'. Summers is of the holy Roman church and defends the church sponsored mass murders of the 16th,17th and 18th centuries.All classes were concerned, he writes, from Pope to peasant, from Queen to cottage gill. Yes, Montague, but what class was put in the flames and by whom?
Very cool book.
Montague Summers is almost hilariously credulous, but this does not stop it from being an entertaining or educational, as long as taken with many grains of salt.
A BRIEF HISTORY OF WITCHCRAFT AND DEMONOLOGY WHICH IS GOOD TO READ AND UNDERSTAND!
A decent history of Witchcraft, not the modern variant but the medieval.
Very interesting but often a dry read.
The author's contribution to the subject earns him a five by providing rich content and perspective, but the abhorrence of his perspective takes his rating down a notch.
A fascinating and informative survey by a Catholic priest. He has a lively style. He relishes the details of the evil practices, and laughs at the follies of atheists and Protestants.Sometimes the long lists get tiresome, but this book is well worth reading.
I'd bought it a few years ago and I think I knew it was going to be full of crazy but decided I should read some nice spooky books before Halloween.
One thing that was nice about this book was that it quoted extensively from old sources, and unlike quite a lot of early 20th century books on this subject, included lots of references for what he was quoting and great lists of other earlier occult and witchcraft books that would probably make for much better reading.
The book was strictly from the church standpoint, It does not include any sources that are not either partially or directly related to the Church.
Although this was rather disappointing to read the book is completely correct in that sense of how the church acted making it a valuable resource.
But it in not a adequate source if you are reading in order to learn about how witchcraft was used.
When the book does mention "witch" practice it is very vague and evasive.
It was a decent book to read if you wish to learn about the history of the fear of witchcraft.
longest book ever. the content while informative is excessive. if you want to read a textbook or if you need teaching material that will bore your audience to tears this may be the book for you. Thank goodness it was free on my nook and in the discount bin at Barnes and Noble or I would a bit angry
Used this for research purposes only, for my upcoming book entitled Unleashing the Spirit.
I knew this would be a lot of twaffle. Better to read Alan Macfarlane's Witchcraft in Tudor and Stuart England.
Very dry.
