https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/994937.Beast_In_View
As Nancy mentions in her review Helen Clarvoe is a loner but Beast in View is a novel with its emphasis on human weaknesses and the way they change the way we interact with each other and that is another reason why this novel is so much more than genre fiction.I won't discuss the ending beyond mirroring the reaction of Keating, I for one enjoyed the prestige of Millar's conjuring trick.
My first, but not last, novel by Margaret Millar, Beast in View is really more of a story of psychological suspense rather than a full-blown crime novel, set in Southern California of the 1950s.Helen Clarvoe, a young woman now 30, lives alone in a small hotel in Hollywood.
Furthermore, while the central character, Helen Clarvoe, is a loner, Beast in View is a novel with a profound emphasis on human interactions and human failings at its core.
Margaret Millar was a Canadian writer known for her marriage to Ross MacDonald one of the most well respected mystery writers of all time.
With Margaret Millar there is always two stories going on, the one she lets you view and the one underneath that you know is lurking, never completely clear but waiting to spring and catch you unaware.
She never won another Edgar which is a pity because she wrote a lot of brilliant books, but then, Ross MacDonald never won an Edgar and he has proven to be one of the great mystery writers of all time.
Don't let the quaint 1950s setting and dated social attitudes mislead you. This is a first-rate psychological suspense mystery. Devastating climax helps to make it MM's masterpiece. Won the Edgar in 1956.
Very 1950s (came out in 1955), with psychology (multiple personality disorder) and a portrait of homosexuality that made me cringe. I so want to love Margaret Millar but, despite her good writing, interesting plots and memorable situations, I do not.
Soho Syndicate is in the process of re-publishing many of Margaret Millar’s suspense novels.
Millar was a renowned, award-winning suspense novelist of the fifties.
Beast in View is a rather short novel, even by mid-fifties standards.
It has an unusual feel to it of distance and detachment and has been described as a psychological suspense novel.
Many of the characters are oddballs from 30 year old shut-ins, to widows living off quickly disappearing inheritances, to wanna-be Actresses desperate for fame, to closet homosexuals (outcasts at that time) living with their mothers and taking endless photography classes.
It was deeply dark in a elegantly sinister way that not so much stabs you in the back but convinces you that you need to stab yourself in the back.
We ask ourselves what would we do in that situation and the answer, like the rest of the story is dark.The plot was just as organic and delicate as the characters it involved, seeming at times episodic but never detaching from the central investigation.
I was left satisfied and empty at the same time, knowing I would not have another ending as good for a while.
Beast In View was a true gem.
I've enjoyed a couple of her other books in the past few years, when I've been able to find copies.
The Soft Talkers was one of my favourites of last year.
Beast in View is another 5-star read.
Or is it about Evelyn Merrick, the woman who makes the initial call to Helen and who seems to be making many calls to other people that have upset her?
I loved how it moved along, from the one character to the other, how the tension builds, how the story surprisingly makes a turn to the left.
Dated, but who gives a ship. This was a thorny, garish little novel with a dark dark heart, and worth it for that astonishing last line alone.
"She pressed the knife into the soft hollow of her throat. She felt no pain, only a little surprise at how pretty the blood looked, like bright and endless ribbons that would never again be tied."
This thriller/mystery isn't of the style I generally prefer (too dark & creepy) but it is extremely well written and the ending came as a complete surprise to me.
At ten to twenty-five cents a throw, however, the paperback still had to get down to business pretty quickly.Margaret Millar's novel Beast In View runs counter to the standard noir novella (noirella?) in that no corpse finds its way into the pages for quite a while, at least within the narrow confines of a 157 page book.
The milieu is always too morally ambiguous, and blurred by cigarette smoke.Millar's intriguing noir setup devolves to lurid pulp boilerplate before our eyes, and that's too bad, a wasted opportunity.The chapters when we're in the psycho woman's Pov fly along beautifully, with every appearance sharpening the keen jeopardy this character can inflict, just on a whim.
Winner of the 1956 Edgar Award for Best Novel and also named one of the Top 100 Mystery Novels of All Time by the Mystery Writers of America, the novel may be a bit dated in its views of homosexuality and use certain psychological terms but it still packs quite a punch.At thirty, Helen Clarvoe may be rich but she is lonely.
He finds himself following a trail through a modeling school and a photography studio which eventually leads him to an old school friend of Miss Clarvoe's--Evelyn Merrick.
One time best friend and, more recently, short-term wife of Helen's brother Douglas.
This seems to be my season for reading about fragmented and disintegrating personalities.
An isolated, neurotic woman starts receiving nasty phone calls from a mysterious stranger.
As more people start to receive these calls, always containing information, true or false, that has a devastating impact on their lives, it turns out that the caller is no stranger at all.
How little of a stranger she is becomes clear only as the story reaches its perfectly-pitched climax.
She touches on topics that were taboo at the time this story was written in a manner that is honest but not prurient.
Beast In ViewMargaret MillarThis edition used a bold, normal-sized font everywhere. That made it a little difficult to read. The story was dated, perhaps from the mid-1960s. The dating apparently was needed to set up the initial reader interest. Three strikes, you're out.2017.07.25 update: This book was published in 1955, so my comment on the story being dated was just plain wrong.
This one was written the same year as The Talented Mr. Ripley by Patricia Highsmith, one of my all-time favorite author and psychological thrillers.
Just think of some isms and phobias that were rather taboo subjects back in '55.Helen Clarvoe, well-to-do but living in a run down, second rate Hollywood Hotel receives a crank phone from someone who claims to know her and provides information to prove it.
I'm really surprised to see the low number of ratings she's received for her books if this one is any indication of her talent.
This novel explores an eerie relationship between a woman with ‘phoneitis’ (you will have to read the book for a definition here) and a host of people from her past.
Today we would call Evelyn Merrick a crank caller – a person who persistently calls people on the phone and ultimately threatens them with revealing happenings from their past.
We begin to see the light towards the end of the novel, but don’t really know what all is going on until the very end.
Millar does not disappoint with this novel.
(It turns out I'm a little out of order because I thought the award started in 1954 but it actually started in 1951 - despite that shift, the first 10 are a balance of men and women, something I hope to explore once I'm done reading them all.) As for "Best in View," while I was reading it I found myself thinking about a lot of today's suspense novels - many rely heavily on shock value.
Psychology drives the story, as it does most of the books I've read by women of this time period.
I would like to read this book again to keep track of the clues she sets out along the way: clues the reader may not see in passing but that add up in the end.
I was seven when this book was first published. It is so easy to forget how different the world felt to women, gays, African-Americans back then. If you wonder if we are making any social progress, read this. Millar was known for the psychological depth of her books and the plot of Beast in View certainly plays that up. You may find yourself shaking your head, wondering "How can they think that way?" Well, remember, they really did!
That was a lot of fun! I would suggest reading this one straight through in one sitting.
There is so much ugliness and pain in Beast in View, which, granted, is essential to the book's plot, but still is so disturbing. Even understanding this and knowing that it was written during a different time than ours, I still have trouble with the novel's archaic attitudes about certain things. The writing is superb and I have a feeling the reader is not supposed to feel comfortable in any way at all, but, still, this is so unsettling I had to watch several episodes of Golden Girls afterwards.
This is a fast and dark tale of psychological terror. A mysterious telephone call from someone calling themselves Evelyn Merrick, threatens Helen Clarvoe, an old school friend. She looks for help from Paul Blackshear, a business acquaintance of her father, now in semi retirement. There are some convenient coincidences, but this is a gripping story. The plot meanders at times, and needs sharp attention in order to appreciate the ending. My overall feeling though is that was all a bit rushed... rare for me, to say another 50 pages would have been to its benefit.
It’s not Millar’s fault that I guessed the ending of this book—you will, too, if you read any or all of the current-day thrillers that use a similar plot device. But they will all be overlong and overwrought. This is fast, thrilling, economical, and nasty. Not exactly my cup of tea, but very strong, excellent tea nonetheless.
A tricksy little book, Millar writes a dark little slice of life that delivers quite a few surprises and a surprisingly non-judgmental view of homosexuality for the time.
My rating is a little stingy compared to other readers’ ratings, but what can I say! While I enjoyed some of the plot twists, the writing seemed sloppy in places.
This is very much a product of its time, enjoyable, well-written, but kind of zany. I think I'll have to reread it to get a better sense of it.
This brilliant thriller is witty, superbly plotted and psychologically perceptive.
Margaret Millar's "Beast in View" received the "coveted" Edgar Allan Poe Award for Best Novel of the year in 1956, yet I do not like it at all, and had to work hard to finish reading it.
Sure, words can hurt, but not in that simple way.Further, I am unable to relate to people who are so self-centered that their inability to align their real persona with their self-image, the fact that they are not someone who they would like to be, is the greatest tragedy of their life.
Ms. Millar's husband, Ross Macdonald wrote deeply realistic novels about human condition at about the same time.Finally, the denouement.
This psychological novel must have seemed very new and shocking at the time it was written, but feels quite old hat now.
It took me 6 weeks to get through this rather short book, as it was a distasteful subject and (once again) not a classic detective story.
It then transpires that her mother, Verna, is receiving similar calls about Helen's brother Douglas (who was very briefly married to the sister-in-law Evelyn).
But, it's beginning to annoy me that they seemed to want to choose books that "transcended the genre" or whatever, more "literary" works, rather than just excellent examples of the detective story.
After that disappointing Vargas experience, I was very pleased to have read Millar’s book that same day I checked it out of the library.
I came to this book, published in 1955, after having read an article about “Gone Girl”, by G.
The ambiance is definitely 1950s LA, which I really enjoyed; and do I dare mention there is something about this book that reminded me of Pulp Fiction- how?
The writing is transparent and unfussy and not cluttered with the tough-guy lingo (I don’t mind tough-guy lingo personally) that pervades some of the other crime fiction written around that time frame.
