https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/52880.The_Curse_of_Lono
And so begins a manifold tale of America in the '80s-a tale of a Christmas vacation gone horribly, horribly wrong-a tale of high stakes sports fishing-and the tale of a man finding his inner godliness on the westernmost edge of America.Put that way, The Curse of Lono might be the most ambitious book in the Thompson oeuvre.
It was such an amazing and twisted read. I couldn't put the book down. I even cuddled with it.
That edition, too, became a collectible.Why the book has been treated as a specialty item is a mystery to me, because, at least in terms of laughs per square column inch, it possibly beats even Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.As I started reading it, I was inclined to think of it as a junior league retread of ...Vegas, down to its conceit of having a reporter, Thompson, covering a minor local sporting event (a marathon in Honolulu), then losing interest in it quickly and setting off on a maddening, aimless, drug-fueled surreal adventure informed of local lore and mythology.To a certain extent, Thompson does stumble into a well-gouged mine to extract some familiar ore.
This is the Hunter Thompson book you've never heard of, but really want to read.
The paperback of it has been out of print since the early 80s.
You can find these first 1000 on used book pages on BN.com or Amazon for around a thousand bucks, making it one of the more pricey things I know of on those used services, besides that Madonna Sex book from the early 90s.So basically if you want to read it, you're screwed, unless of course you know somebody that has a DRM free digital copy.
I think this is my fave HST book. Coupled with Steadman's delicious gonzo art, the writing and story really comes alive.Its a crazy romp through Hawaii which no Thompson or Steadman fan should go without reading!*If you're a fan of Steadmans art, as I am in a big way - look for a recently published version of Lono. Its a huge oversized hardback printed on high quality pages where Steadman's art really is given center stage. I keep it on display at all times!
In ...Lono, he admits he'd been turning down writing assignments for years when he took one to cover the Honolulu Marathon for a small mag called 'Running.' Perhaps he saw it as a chance to relive the magic that caused Fear And Loathing In Las Vegas (which, of course, started as an assignment to cover a motorcycle race, but turned into something bigger and stranger).
What we end up with is a slightly beefed-up magazine article that reads like something between Rum Diary and ...Las Vegas, padded further by extensive excerpts from other sources on Hawaiian history (does he do that in ANY other book?).The writing itself, of course, is classic Thompson, and thus a wonderful, fun read.
The story is secondary to the style.Also, like any Hunter Thompson book, there is redeeming content.
they rate only a mention with HST.The first focus is the Honolulu Marathon - not even present in most travel books although it is every bit as international as its NYC and Boston cousins.
The description is pure Thompson...
and right on.Thompson does the same for 2 week storm on the Big Island - again - not often mentioned in other travel literature.The longest part is about sport fishing in Kona.Interspersed is some period writing of the voyage of Captain Cook and one from Mark Twain.It's a good fast read.
Pure, but not vintage, Thompson.
*Back-dating reviews based on snips I find*I’m officially taking a break from Hunter S.
Every book I read, I’m like “Is it hilarious?
Am I missing something hilarious?” I mean, I like his style of writing and I like the fact that much of it surrounds journalism in some form, but I’ve never read a book – barring ‘Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas’ and felt like I really got the tone it was written in, or the jokes – if there was any.I think I’ve gotten myself wound up to the point I’m determined to read more and crack the issue, but it’s just making me more paranoid!
I’m officially on Hunter hiatus.
Then I read the blurb in which a review had called it hilarious.

Part of a conversation about this book:E: Just ate a sub-par dinner, reading Hunter S. Thompson, avoiding cleaning....I'm doing pretty good.P: Fear and Loathing?E: The Curse of Lono. Hawaii in the 80s, marathons, botched fishing excursions, mescaline.P: Right up there with brown copper kettles and warm woolen mittensExactly.
Not his best effort, a little disjointed and and depressing, but it was an interesting read.
I found it quite energetic and a lot of fun, with a number of memorable scenes including "trapped on a boat with drug fiends during a midnight storm," "impersonating a Hawaiian deity," and many scenes in which a Samoan war club proves essential.
Another possible title could have been Fear and Loathing in Hawaii.
I liked this book a lot, and I will definitely read the physical copy at some point in the future.
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (amazing)2.
Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72(also amazing)3.
I had seen this lying around the local Half-Price Books and snagged it with a coupon diminishing the hefty price tag.
This is a gigantic book with huge beautiful prints by Steadman as well as the usual crazed drunken rambling of Thompson.The whole thing is about a trip to Hawaii to cover the Honolulu Marathon that goes awry a la la Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas and degenerates into a mescaline-fueled marlin hunt with a smattering of interesting pre-American Hawaiian history.
If you can't justify the $50 tag find a library somewhere that has it.
It's rather swish of me, but I have the huge and lavish Taschen edition of this wonderful book - probably one of Thompson's most underrated pieces of work.Any book that starts with the narrator making his way through customs with a blue arm because he chickened out of flushing his stash down the airplane toilet and grabbed it back is obviously going to be pretty 'out there' and this doesn't disappoint.As usual, Steadman's manic illustrations match Thompson's twisted narrative.
The Taschen one is actually worth the money, BTW - it's the perfect frame for Steadman's work.
As I read this beautifully written book I noted how much of himself he accepted, he was not afraid to share everything.
Judgement on his lifestyle or bad decisions was left for his peers while he continued on with his whimsical lunacy.I say lunacy without malice, I use it to describe the mind set of those brave enough to be unique, live their lives and embrace their mistakes even when knowingly making them.
I long to be rid of the anxiety which holds me back from such adventures, living for the experience universes away from judgement.Amazing read, I highly recommend it!
Thompson , on his birthday July 18 Curious and with a grand contempt for all authority, paying attention to the man behind the curtain and bringing us all along with him for the ride, iconoclast and rebel, transgressing boundaries with wild abandon and great joy, an imp of satire, embracing all that is human and moving through all stratum of our society with an ease of blending in and the adaptational skill of a shapeshifter, for whom life is a party and the ordinary becomes spectacular pagentry, Hunter S.
The Curse of Lono follows the familiar Hunter Thompson formula of: 1.
Granted assignment to cover some race/sporting event/political rally.
2. Dutiful covering of event while getting wasted on drugs and alcohol.
3. Procrastination of writing assignment because of continued abuse of drugs and alcohol with the natives.
Thompson twists his adventures and his thesis to parallel the adventures of Captain Cook, who was massacred because of the natives perception of him as the returned god Lono.
It is a fun and funny read, a bit formulaic as mentioned, but with enough local Hawaiian color to make it original.
we're in very similar thematic territory with fear and loathing in Las Vegas here: Thompson is on assignment to cover a local sporting event, falls in with a bad crowd and gets into drug crazed conflicts with the locals.
He runs on a manic energy and his words hum in a way that is entirely his own, but the "plot" as it were mostly subsists on this energy, absent of most functional narrative thread.
If you like him, you'll like this but it is in a lot of ways Fear & Loathing lite.
A gonzo take on Hawaiian life from the king of bizarre interpretations of popular culture.
I can see why this book isn’t for everyone, or even all of HST’s fans, but as someone who has spent a large portion of my life living as a white haole boy in HI, it really rings true.
It’s still a drug and alcohol fueled psycho trip, but the allusions to Island culture and folklore, told thru the good doctor’s skewed world view, were equal parts haunting and hilarious.
If you have spent any decent amount of time in the Islands and also enjoy the works of HST, you have no reason not to enjoy this book.
This is the kind of story that could make for a compelling movie, but as a book in the manner it's told the story fails to stay interesting. Those who are Hunter S. Thompson devotees will appreciate the prose for its style -- signature HST language and scenes. As far as content goes, though, it's choppy, repetitive, confusing, and too often pretentious. Then again, I was never a fan of Fear and Loathing, so maybe HST just isn't my thing.
Savage in its hilarity, 'The Curse of Lono' is an often overlooked gem of the HST collection.From superstitious 'natives' to an ocean devoid of fish in a paradise beset by storms, this book has everything, (with the exception of adequate coverage of the Honolulu marathon). A must read for HST fans wanting to broaden their HST vocabulary.
This is a Hunter S. Thompson book. Not much more needs be said or written about it. Fans will enjoy it, non-fans of HST will regularly shake their head in disbelief. It’s what HST does. It’s what his words cause in one. Love it or hate it. I’m part of the fan club.
Classic HST. I was feeling the need for something less traditional - a little darker. Thompson delivered, as always, this time with a sordid journey through the Hawaiian islands. All the typical HST parts are there. I might need more this summer.
Excellent. Like all "Gonzo" Thompson, it makes you wonder about the particular events that actually occurred in Hawaii to form the basis of this book. It also makes me want to see Steadman's work in more books.
Better than I remembered it (having read it back in 1983). Friends gave me HST books written after this one, but I think he lapsed into self-parody about this time. Still, it's pretty funny, and Steadman's drawings are wonderful, as usual. The last great work of Gonzo.
It’s HST. So I love it.
A Thompson classic, in a beautiful collector's edition. One of those which aren't meant for shelves but for display.
So so hijinks from a mad man.
Favorite! Could not put it down.
Siempre se agradece una buena traducción al español.
