https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30068.The_Book_of_the_Dead
On its face, it’s a series that features a modern-day Holmes knockoff in Pendergast, a Watsonian sidekick in the form of Vincent D’Agosta, and even a twisted Mycroft simulacrum in the form of Diogenes, with all the trappings of modern-day serial killer thrillers, ranging from advanced forensic techniques to absurd plot twists to stock supporting characters, particularly in the form of law enforcement officers and bureaucratic officials.
Perhaps it’s the chillingly creative origin of Pendergast and Diogenes, the interjection of horror elements across the series, the expert use of setting, or the blurry line between fantasy and reality; whatever the case, like a Frosty, the combination of all aspects of the series—elements that, taken individually, are neither remarkable nor especially original—transform it into something utterly distinctive and irresistible.
I normally never buy NY Times bestsellers, as it's usually the morons of America that cause the shittiest books ever written to end up on this list.
This book is the way a thriller/myster  should  be written.
Any half-wit could have predicted the ending of The Da Vinci Code, and elements of other great thrillers like Red Dragon and The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo also have predictable parts.
3) I didn't even know until half way through the book that it's the most recent in a series.
Good authors, like these ones, include other shit in their books because they're SMART and they know how to keep a reader interested.
I can’t say too much on the plot of this book because it’s the third one in the Diogenes series.
You would need to go to book #5 (Brimstone) to start the book trio between the Pendergast brothers.Aloysius is an FBI agent and reminds me of Sherlock.
This is not a stand alone!This book involves Egyptian curses, the prison system and love that turns into revenge and hate!(Really, that's all that I can say about the plot without ruining book #5 (Brimstone) and #6 (Dance of Death)).If you want action, suspense along with some creepy factors in a series, go read this series.
The story was an action packed resolution to the Diogenes trilogy in the same vein as the other Pendergast novels that I have come to know and love.
I think where the book (and the climax) lost me as it almost felt rushed to resolve both the book and the trilogy.I am currently reading The Count of Monte Cristo and I saw shades of that in this book.
(view spoiler)[Many elements of the Pendergast prison break seemed almost like direct homage to the Dumas classic (hide spoiler)] I think the part mentioned in the spoiler along with some of the various other story lines within were my favorite parts.
Usually I really enjoy these novels so I was disappointed that I didn't enjoy this as much. I didn't think the Event that caused so much hatred between the two brothers was that impressive in terms of the lengths Diogenes went to to destroy his brother. This was definitely the poorest of the Diogenes trilogy.The next in series is also not popular with fans of the series as it is in a different setting and without the supporting cast so I may give that one a miss.A tepid contribution to the series. I really hope it picks up again.
Great conclusion to the Diogenes Trilogy within the Pendergast series! Nothing like a bombshell ending to make you immediately want to pick up the next book.
Another excellent thriller featuring Agent Pendergast.
The last of the hair-raising Diogenes trilogy within the Pendergast series. I loved this trilogy. It wasn’t easy on the mind and hearts of those attached to the characters in these books. This last one was really a nail-biter and gave me goosebumps. Prepare for several travesties where you are constantly asking yourself what is really going on and wondering if the characters can recover. Resilience can be found in the strangest of places. If you push a person too far, you just might find out what they are made of.
Another good volume. Lots of action and good dialogue. Great to see the whole ensemble of recurring characters interact.I’m a little suspicious as to whether or not Diogenes is actually dead.
Might write a review of sorts for the Pendergast-Diogenes trilogy later. I thoroughly enjoyed this, although I find myself having to suspend my disbelief at times, and wishing that the resolution at the end panned out differently. Highly readable, thrilling, and pretty darn hard to put down - I'm sure the rate I've been finishing up these books was a positive sign.
One dreary December evening some years ago, I slogged in to my local Fred Meyer, stamping snow off my shoes, and encountered a tall, friendly, dapper gentlemen hawking paperback books near the door.
He introduced himself as Douglas Preston and said the book, Relic, was being made into a movie.
I decided that next time this pair published a book, I would get on the roller-coaster and take another ride.
Five years was long enough for me to forget much of he plot and, therefore, be able to appreciate the suspense in The Book of the Dead.
The museum's hierarchy decide to best way to circumvent the "bad press" and public outcry is to reopen a revitalized century-old Egyptian exhibit, The Tomb of Senef.
As Diogenes's plan unfolds, which entails secretive visits to Pendergasts' young ward from The Cabinet of Curiousities, Constance Greene, in order to seduce her with his version of the truth, Pendergast manages to escape prison in an attempt to thwart Diogenes's Coup de Grace at the museum's Grand Reopening of the Tomb.
Scott Brick’s resonant voice makes for great narration, with the exception of my personal pet peeve that in ANY and EVERY book he reads, he ALWAYS emphasizes and slows the first syllable of the words I just capitalized (and similar words and derivations thereof) so that A-ny time E-ver you come across one of those words, he emphasizes it.
(This is according to information given at the end of Dance of Death audiobook.) Dance of Death should be read before Book of the Dead, and preferably Brimstone should be read before both of those but it’s not necessary.
Dance of Death and this book focus on the hatred and battle between the Pendergast brothers, FBI Special Agent Aloysius and his brilliant but murderously pathological brother Diogenes.
The previous book left off with Diogenes framing his brother for some horrific crimes and then stealing millions of dollars worth of diamonds from the Museum of History.
There was too much time spent on trying to break Pendergast in prison and police captain Laura Hayward being too proud to listen to Detective D'Agosta.
Everyone of the books has had the prerequisite Ass in Charge.A plotline that was a total turn off but ended out well: Diogenes seducing Constance Green.
This may not be the best written book in the series, but it feels like it to me because it is so true to the characters.Raise your hand if you really think a detective can be as near-omniscient as Sherlock Holmes.
Now, that being said, if you still enjoy suspending your disbelief enough to enjoy the improbable mastery of minutiae that Arthur Conan Doyle ascribed to Holmes, you would probably enjoy the Pendergast novels of Lincoln Child and Douglas Preston.
Ancient artifacts and legends are juxtaposed against surprisingly modern technologies and methodologies.Most amazing to me in this novel was an introspective journey taken by Agent Pendergast at a critical point in the plot.
i found this book in the bargain bin at the borders where my sister works.
was a great book and i'm sorry i read it first because its the last book in a trilogy made by the two authors about their FBI protagonist, special agent pendergast.
to read in the proper order, the first in the trilogy is Brimstone, then comes Dance of Death.
the first book ever with Agent Pendergast is "Relic" which i still haven't read, but i would definitely recommend this book- at the very least i would recommend reading Dance of Death first for the background info, but Book of the Dead is much better
I just love Preston & Child.
Their writing is crisp and action-packed, with short chapters that can be read in a hurry.
One of the things I enjoy about a book is to come across words with which I am not familiar, in which case I usually look up the definition and write it in the book margin, thus (hopefully) improving my vocabulary.
Thanks to my Goodreads friend Matthew for his notations about the Preston & Child series.
You never fail to steer me to good reads, Matthew.* * * * *Superb thriller!
I'm reading all of Preston & Child's novels.
I feel like all my reviews for the Pendergast series are starting to sound the same, I'm gushing as if in love about how fantastic the books are but its still true, this story is phenomenal and it makes you want to read another and another, this could easily have thirty volumes and I would still want to read them all, as usual this book reads smooth as silk while the action cuts like a knife.The Book of The Dead is the standard great stuff that one would expect from the insightful and intelligent duo, their stories breathe a life of their own and to me they feel different than other novels.
In this book, Diogenes is motivated to spend about a billion dollars, wantonly destroy half a million more in diamonds, dedicate about 15 years of his life to performing about 500 man-years of work in a variety of disciplines that are not remotely related (yeah okay, he's a cartoon, whatever), and kill dozens of people because...
Okay fine, he's crazy like that he doesn't need a reason, but these are still the most ridiculous and seemingly pointless scenes of the whole book, and that's really saying something.Well, it turns out that the reason for it all is so that Constance can come from out of nowhere in the end of the book and kill Diogenes by wrestling him into a live volcano.
I picked this book up from my local library for a dollar. I believe it was a dollar well spent. The creepy factor was right up there. I like how the authors used modern day techniques to achieve horrific situations. This was definitely a thrill ride and I enjoyed my time on it.
Odd and peripheral characters are constantly being introduced with no explanation of what may have gone before -- two separate female characters had apparently been attacked and almost murdered in previous novels; another seems to a scientific and philosophical experiment, a 100-year-old savant in the body of a woman in her 20s, with the social skills and worldly experience of a home-schooled 12-year-old -- and you never quite grasp who these people are or why they are important.
And yet this is not a comic book, or a fantasy like Harry Potter -- it's supposed to be a thriller, based in modern life and experience, and thus remotely possible.
This book is the last of the little trilogy within the Pendergast series that started with Brimstone and Dance of Death.
All sorts of suspenseful things were going on all at once, and this is one book where, if you read at least the previous book, you know exactly who the bad guy is, but none of the other characters do, and so you may find yourself yelling like me, "Noooo, don't listen to him!
The Book of the Dead is another so-so entry in the Pendergast-verse and brings the Diogenes trilogy to an end (hopefully!).It suffers from the same malaise as the previous couple of books in that the antagonist is boring and the story boils down to Batman chasing the Joker in the Dark Knight. There is no mystery and the protagonists are basically boring while having the ability to foresee random events. And the ending is ambiguous enough without any form of closure.Oh well!. I hope the next book will be a return to the core pendergast values.
Preston and Child call these books the Diogenes trilogy.
This final book was released on May 30, 2006 and has been on the New York Times Best Seller list, reaching as high as #4 on the list.Special Agent Aloysius Pendergast is the focus of this novel as his evil brother Diogenes puts several plans into effect.
But as this was the final book in the Pendergast-Diogenes trilogy, some of the suspense was lost as the final outcome was pretty obvious.
A must read for all Preston-Child fans, but not the one to start with.
This was a good book, but I felt cheated.
In the end, when The Event was revealed, the whole thing just fell flat.
Also, I wasn't too impressed with the wrap-up of the whole Diogenes sequence.
Is this the same Diogenes who was so masterfully powerful in Dance of Death (Pendergast, #6)?
I don't want to reveal any spoilers, so I am unable to explain exactly why I thought the second half of this book was so unappealing.
Suffice to say, it's probably a good thing this trilogy is now wrapped up, so that the authors can work on returning to form.
If you can get past the plot, which is utterly preposterous, this is a pretty good action read.
I found myself flipping past the criminal mastermind's rantings because after awhile, they get boring.
I also I fail to see what help it is when he quotes things in French (got that), Italian (can guess at that), Russian (nope), and Greek (nope again), and then does not provide translations.
That got boring too.
Wish I'd known that this was the last of a trilogy when I got it from the library.
I got a ways in and the dialogue started talking about other crimes that the characters had been involved in.
I always love picking up a Pendergast novel for when I want a fun and quick detective story. The finale of the Diogenes trilogy within the series didn't fail. Seriously though, with all the things that happen at that museum, you'd think they'd have shut down new programs by now. Your sense of reality definitely has to be suspended for this one but it's a fun ride.
I always enjoy the reliable thriller-mystery, with a dash of horror read in between my other readings. However, I should have read Brimstone and Dance of Death first. Shame on me for not reading more reviews and blogs on this. I was still entertained by the clever Agent Pendergast and his cohorts. I'll be back to read more by the Preston/Child team soon.
I just love the mix of history and thriller. Especially the museum history is fascinating. I'll try to get more of these.
And now I know the story of Constance Green and Diogenes Pendergast and I am caught up with the beginning of the series and the "Pendergast Trilogy" is behind me. I am not sure I want to visit the Museum of History in New York City, if I ever go there. Too many bad experiences, I think. I really enjoyed Scott Brick's narration of the story and look forward to hearing him again.
