https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24780.The_Book_of_Three
To make a long story short I loved this series when I was kid, I needed to pick up a gift for my nephew who is apparently Mini-Me, so I grabbed him the first couple of books in this series.
To get the bad out of the way what my twelve year old self didn't notice is that Lloyd Alexander is not a particularly graceful writer.
Also I have to love the fact that someone apparently told Lloyd Alexander that the purpose of Young Adult literature is to scare the shit out of young adults.
I really liked this book but I liked it even more because I got to read it with my dad.
Lloyd Alexander to Welsh traditionAs Tolkien's Germanic: noble mission.But worse than ‘The Hobbit’ - please explain? Because the prose style's more mundane.The rest of the series, though, remember, Only gets better, fanning the embersFiercer and brighter in later books;From The Black Cauldron onwards, you're hooked.
The books are full of witches, magic swords, evil kings, and zombie armies.
(I'm not joking - Taran and his friends have to fight off an army called the Cauldron Born, which are magically reanimated corpses.)I don't mind saying that Taran was probably my first literary crush back in 4th grade.
Just thought I'd share that.By the way, Disney made an animated version of The Black Cauldron a while ago that I was unfortunate enough to see.
Write angry letters to the Disney Corporation complaing about how they butchered Lloyd Alexander's story in every possible way.
The Book of Three (The Chronicles of Prydain, #1), Lloyd Alexander تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دهم آگوست سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: افسانه های پریداین - کتاب 2 - تاران و شمشیرِ سحرآمیز؛ نویسنده: لوید الکساندر؛ مترجم: مریم سیادت؛ تهران، تندیس، 1385؛ در 222 ص؛ عنوان اصلی جلد نخست از سری پنج جلدی در زبان اصلی «کتابِ سه» است، هرچند نخستین جلد از سری «ماجراهای پریداین» میباشد، عنوان سری در برگردان فارسی به «افسانه های پریداین» و عنوان جلد نخست «تاران و شمشیرِ سحرآمیز» نامیده شده است، عنوان اصلی جلد دوم نیز «پاتیل

Of course, it isn't quite a normal farm -- among the animals is Hen Wen (an oracular pig of great fame and importance, though Taran has seen no evidence of her powers) and the owner of the farm is Dallben (a scholar and wizard who is over three hundred years old).
Gwydion had been traveling to learn something from Hen Wen, and so he joins Taran in his search for the pig.As they search, we meet several important characters along the way.
"The mightier the foe, the greater the glory."The Book of Three has been a wonderful read, filled with adventures, heroism and fun.This is the tale of Taran, known as the assistant pig-keeper, and his fellow heroes the charming Eilonwy, the truth-stretching Flfewddur Fflam, and the cute hairball-like but devoted Gurgi.Magical, Adorable and Enjoyable!
I have very little to say on this book and why I gave it 5 stars. I read it in the past. A re read has revealed many deft touches that the author has meant us readers to discover at our leisure. The book has a boldfaced naivety about it. I enjoyed it from start to finish. I regret so few people will want to give it a chance. I'm thinking of going through the entire series. Ta.
It's a fun, mostly-light fantasy adventure about a headstrong boy who wants to live life, not wallow in the wake of a blacksmith or spend his days as an assistant pig keeper.
It is however a little more silly than I care for these days.
It treads too much on gags, like a toady's repetitive speech pattern and a bard's truth-detecting instrument that breaks a string whenever he lies.
He must break nearly ten strings throughout this book and such a short book is just not long enough to sustain that kind of repetition.
The Chronicles of Prydain is a classic fantasy adventure that does what great classics, fantasies and adventures do to readers- make them love them. Who says classics cannot be as fun as Percy Jackson series? :)
This is really where it all began for me.
Over three decades ago this book set me on the path to a lifelong love of, and later career, in fantasy fiction.
Between the ages of ten and thirteen I must have read this book six times or more, along with all the others in the series.
Alexander's blend of Welsh legend and modern fantasy tropes is both enchanting and compelling and the adventures of Taran, orphan and assistant pig-keeper, are a truly classic example of the hero's journey from boy to man.
Kids who cannot understand or don’t have the patience for the Lord of the Rings but who want to read fantasy novels may enjoy this.
As for me, if I wanted to read Fellowship of the Ring I would have just read it.
I didn’t like this book at all, there were too many obvious similarities to the Lord of the Rings and I just kept becoming more and more irritated with the parallels as the book progressed.
(ahemmm...
*fake cough* blatant ripoff *end fake cough*)Sorry to my friends that love it, but I just could not get into it.
Kazimo 3.5/5Jos jedna od knjiga za koju mi je zao sto je nisam citao kada sam bio jedno 20tak godina mladji. Odlicno napisano i na momente mracno, sa finim likovima. prica je predvidiva al sobzirom od kada je to se moze oprostiti. Brzo se cita i ostavlja apetit za vise.Mada mi je cudno da prva knjiga u fantazijskom serijalu ima samo 160 strana. Danas tako nesto ne bi pilo vodu :P
Todo bien con The Hobbit, pero no me parece una lectura adecuada para un niño, preferiría darle de leer Narnia o estos libros.
Los diálogos los encontré ingeniosos, en especial los de Eilonwy; la personalidad de cada personaje se nota bien a través de sus palabras, y me parece que esa es la característica mejor desarrollada del libro.
Tiene sus cosas, sin embargo: a Alexander le gustaba mucho la palabra "plunge", que de tanto leerla ya la puedo usar en un lenguaje cotidiano más o menos, y que, después de tanta espera, le había puesto muchas expectativas al libro.
A yen I gave in to this weekend when I checked out a Science Fiction Book Club omnibus edition of all 5 novels and a collection of short stories (the latter of which, I haven't read).Having read The Book of Three, I can see where my moral compass may have begun to form.
I first read these books in sixth grade as an extracurricular project, and then made a filmstrip of the final book, The High King (yes, a "filmstrip" - for the young'uns out there, think PowerPoint presentation without the laptop :-).
On his quest, Taran picks up many companions (and this is the bit that felt most like Tolkien): Gwydion, the Prince of Don, a warrior who looks very unlike the royalty he is; the bard Fflewddur Fflam, a former king who 'gave all that up', and whose harp has strings that break whenever he stretches the truth (which is quite a lot); Gurgi, the strange beast that is not an animal nor yet a man, who speaks in the third person and has obsessive tendencies about food and such (Gurgi especially felt like a Gollum clone to me at first, though he distinguishes himself--not necessarily for the better--pretty quickly after the first book); Doli the Dwarf, the obligatory member of the fair folk, who complains while doing anything; and of course, the Princess Eilonwy, who is a complete delight from the first moment we meet her.
Great book.
As a parent, I would like to put the main character, Taran in the corner quite a bit, but he's a boy that likes danger.
It seems like the adults treat him like an adult way too easily, even though he's probably twelve years old, if that.
I like the fantasy aspects of the book, and I like that the fantastical creatures aren't all happy and tra-la-lally (not a word, I know).
The book is quite dark in spots, so I might recommend it for people who like Harry Potter, but probably not those who like Ella Enchanted.
Honestly, I really wanted to read fantasy books from the past for it evoke a sentimental feeling in me, maybe because of it written in the year of 1964?
An unfortunate incident I wouldn’t spoil makes the pig, Hen Wen that Tarran keeps escapes from her pen and thus the adventure of the just pig-keeper begins.
Not that the first book can’t stand alone, it is simply because of the fact that it’s too exciting and compelling that I just wanted to know what’s next.I recommended this not just for fantasy readers but for everyone who wants to read something entertaining in a short sweep, for its wisdom and sense of heroism.

When I was a kid, this was one of the first fantasy series I branched out into after Lord of the Rings and Chronicles of Narnia.
Taran is your typical (even stereotypical) bored farm boy.
But it isn't exactly a normal farm.
When the pig escapes, Taran chases her, and ends up in a lot of of odd adventures, meeting a bard, a princess, and whatever the heck Gurgi is.
Eventually, they find their way home, save the pig, and learn there's a lot more going on than Taran suspected.
It's a good startup to a fantasy series.
I stumbled across THE BOOK OF THREE in the local bookstore right after I had finished THE LORD OF THE RINGS trilogy, and I had nary a clue I was about to fall under a deep spell woven by the masterly Lloyd Alexander.
I literally could not read these books fast enough.
That's how dear this five-book-series (i.e., pentalogy) became to me, and still is to this day.
I absolutely love these books and the characters within.
THE BOOK OF THREE receives five out of five stars.
4.5An Assistant Pig-Keeper, a snarky red-headed princess, one of those comical Bards with a tendency to exaggerate, a very Gollumesque (but considerably more pleasant) creature, and a really awesome horse go on a quest to find a really wise pig? That. Is brilliant. Add to that mix an abundance of magnificent Welsh names, mythology references, the no-nonsense but still witty writing style, and you have this delightful book.
Great youth adventure novel about an assistant pig keeper who meets a priccess on a chase to to rescue his intelegent pig who communictaes through talking sticks from a horned king.....Well, trust me as odd as it sounds it's a great youth book, really, it is.
This whole series is worth reading and it just gets better the further one gets into the series.
3.5 stars. Tolkien lite plot, and heavily derivative. It's definitely not for my age range, yet still had a measure of appeal for its charmingly told and very entertaining adventures, so I'm rounding the rating up on that account.
Searching for books narrated by James Langton led me to this wonderful tale of an assistant pig keeper and his adventures. My next mission is to seek out the rest of the stories in this series.
I bought the box set for the Chronicles of Prydain a short while ago and read most of the first novel while on holiday in Barcelona, which is partially why I haven’t written some reviews for a while.
I can’t believe I missed out this series when I was younger because it has so many elements that are right up my street, although I watched The Black Cauldron Disney film based off this book back then.The novel follows the story of protagonist Taran of Caer Dallben, who is bored of his life as an assistant pig keeper and longs for adventure.
There was Taran, the Assistant Pig-Keeper, the Prince Gwydion, who is very much a noble heir, Gurgi, a man-beast, Eilonwy, a princess from the lineage of the ancient Sea People, Fflewddar Fflam, the bard, and Doli, the dwarf.
I learned a lot about Prydain and its history in the first chapter through the dialogue, so it was good to be clear on a lot of things for the whole book.
And the magic wasn't complicated or confounding and for that I am so pleased.And the plot was good.
But even assistant pig keeping turns out to be harder than expected, when Hen Wen escapes, Taran has a run-in with the Horned King, and things get even worse.One of the classic stories of children's fantasy.
I read it when I was young, and at WorldCon, this year, I was happy to hear a panelist refer to Assistant Pig Keepers, with no other explanation necessary.
If you don't, read it now.There's no one thing that's particularly magical about The Book of Three.
Alexander has done a terrific job of balancing it all out, with a tone that's perfect for young readers.
