https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1404707.Vittoria_Cottage
Esta novela destila un inconfundible tufillo british por los cuatro costados.
Sin embargo, la llegada a la localidad de un misterioso refugiado que ha perdido su casa tras los bombardeos altera el ambiente de calma y cotidianidad que suele regir las vidas de estos pueblerinos.
Así pues, D.E. Stevenson nos conduce por la puerta de Villa Vitoria al interior de un relato pintoresco, nada ambicioso y muy ameno que describe las pequeñas inquietudes de estos grandes personajes como en una novela de Jane Austen a la que le quitaras toda la paja.
I will rate this 4 stars because it is so beautifully written and provides a very relaxing read, but it would be 3.5 for the plot, because there are not many surprises to be had.
Alisha calls it a "quiet domestic novel", and I think that describes it perfectly: quietly entertaining, and so soothing.
A book you can put down and come back to with no hassle.
Stevenson was a fantastic author, so skilled at creating endearing characters, and even if this is not one of her best works, I certainly enjoyed it and shall go on to read the other 2 novels in the trilogy.
Caroline is a type of character that D.E. Stevenson does particularly well--one that somehow manages to be both naive and intelligent at the same time.One day while she's out picking berries she meets Robert Shepperton, a fairly new lodger in town.
(He, along with his eventual wife and some other relatives, also appear in Music in the Hills, Shoulder the Sky, and Bel Lamington.)Caroline's younger sister Harriet, who is a famous actress, arrives for a prolonged visit and introduces some variety into their lives and a little bit of complication.The book has a nice, fitting ending.The only reason I don't give it (and some of D.E. Stevenson's other books) a higher rating is that, to be frank, there's a lack of excitement or plot climax.
I look forward to reading more about the delightful Dering family... and happily I just happen to have the other 2 books of this series stacked on my shelf right now! It's going to be a nice weekend :-)NOTE:(view spoiler)[Unforeseen difficulties challenge the happiness of all involved until Caroline manages to untangle everything to the satisfaction of all. I take exception to the above statement from the book blurb. This book did not have a perfectly happy ending for all. Certainly not for Harriet. (hide spoiler)]
The kind of enjoyable reread where you say, "Yes, I will read one chapter before I turn out the light," and then you say, "I remember reading the book that comes *after* this one better than I recall this, so perhaps I will read two chapters," and then you read the whole book when you should have gone to sleep at midnight...4 1/2 stars - nothing extraordinary but extremely pleasant.
A sweet, old-fashioned tale of life in a village, and love found late. Small things happen, and good manners and self-sacrifice impede understanding. It's all very English, and just what I needed to comfort me at the end of the day.
She took pleasure in a well-made cake, a smoothly ironed napkin, a pretty blouse, laundered and pressed; she liked to see the garden well dug, the rich soil brown and gravid; she loved her flowers.When you are young you are too busy with yourself - so Caroline thought - you haven't time for ordinary little things but, when you leave youth behind, your eyes open and you see magic and mystery all around you: magic in the flight of a bird, the shape of a leaf, the bold arch of a bridge against the sky, footsteps at night and a voice calling in the darkness, the moment in a theatre before the curtain rises, the wind in the trees, or (in winter) and apple-branch clothed with pure white snow and icicles hanging from a stone and sparkling with rainbow colors." (You can see from the above descriptions why I have found a new favorite character in D.E. Stevenson's novels!) Like all of us, Caroline Dering certainly has her faults; one of them being, she seems wishy washy at times!
I finished this today. It is a story of love and family life in post-war (WWII) England. I enjoy D.E. Stevenson's books very much. Her characters are very lifelike and the glimpse of a culture and time that I haven't experienced is very entertaining.
I immensely enjoyed this one. I would have to say it takes a spot as one of my favorite D.E. Stevenson novels. Quiet and simple but very enjoyable. What really made this book for me was the character of Caroline. She now holds a spot with Miss Buncle and Mrs. Tim as my very favorite Stevenson characters. Her kindness, levelheadedness and optimism just made this book enjoyable to read. The ending was abrupt and left much to be desired. Hopefully, all that was left undone in this book will be further expounded upon in the next book in the series.
Re-read as audiobook.
4.5 stars
5/5Like all the books I've read by this author so far there was so much comfort in this book. I got pretty tangled up in the characters lives and especially Caroline Derings. She is a dear. A DEAR.But that ending! Ohh. Too soon T_T Overall the lives and loves of the residents of Ashbury, set in the aftermath of the war, were very entertaining, heart tugging and I just wanted to keep finding out more intimate details.
Delightful autumn read. I love D E Stevenson and Vittoria Cottage did not disappoint. Always a mix of characters you love and characters you don't. Happy endings and open doors for further stories. Looking forward to the next in this trilogy.
An enjoyable read. https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/0...
The story, which is set in a British village in the years after WWII, is simple enough : Caroline Dering, widowed and increasingly financially strapped, meets a handsome newcomer to the village, and begins to realize that she is not so old after all.
In the meantime Caroline's selfish older daughter, Leda, gets engaged to the fickle Derek, and both families are concerned that the young couple won't have anything to live on.
In the end, Leda's engagement is broken but Caroline receives a proposal from Robert.The charm of the book is the contemporary depiction of life in England shortly after the war.
Widowed Caroline Dering lives in rural Ashbridge with her children. She enjoys the small events of village life even as her income shrinks in post-war inflation. She thinks she must concentrate on romance for the younger generation, until Robert arrives in town, but when she realizes that her beloved younger sister also falls in love with him, Caroline is ready to sacrifice herself once again. Sheer comfort fiction, of course, and extremely well-done, but after a while Caroline becomes a bit too perfect for my tastes.
Sweet, goofy, mixed-up hodge-podge of characters with lots of drama. I would have easily given it three, maybe four stars except for the (view spoiler)[ horrible ending! I can't believe the author wrote it that way. Grrr.... (hide spoiler)]
Oh yay... Endeavor Press has started to make Kindle editions of D.E. Stevenson books! There are already 4 new ones out. I am a happy, happy girl. I have read them all, but to have my own copies is bliss.
One of my favorite DE Stevenson books. I love Caroline Dering!
I love seeing the simplicity of post WWII English village life. Stevenson's characters come to life on her pages. I didn't like Caroline's husband, but know men like him.
Easy to read and another engaging family story with lots of characters and drama, post WW 2 England. Book 1 out of 3, will read the rest.
This is only the third book I’ve read by D E Stevenson, but I’m finding that her novels are perfect when I’m in the mood for something gentle and undemanding, but still with convincing characters, some insights into human nature and just enough plot to keep me interested from beginning to end.
I don’t think that matters too much, though, because DE Stevenson is very good at writing novels like this and, as I said at the start of this post, sometimes they are just what I’m in the right mood for.I didn’t enjoy Vittoria Cottage as much as the last Stevenson book I read, Amberwell, but I did like it.
This was my back-up read on my kindle app for the times I was awake in the night, or if I was between library books and wanted a stress-free story to soothe my frayed nerves.
Having finished it now, having read the last 3/4 of it more consistently, I can say I really enjoyed this book and its characters.
I have such admiration for this author’s writing skills; it seems her words flow effortlessly from her pen, and I can almost hear her voice telling the story as I read.
Esta es la historia de un pueblo después de la guerra, enfocada en una viuda dueña de Villa Vitoria, una gran finca con mucha historia (excrecencias incluidas).
La protagonista, Caroline Dering, es una mujer que estaba encerrada en sí misma después de haber tenido una vida bastante triste con un matrimonio arreglado, hijos que no la valoran y un marido quejumbroso e inútil.
Ella comienza a vivir después de la guerra, cuando toma decisiones propias y descubre a la verdadera Caroline que estuvo con ella todo el tiempo.
En la vida, todo pasa -pensaba, caminando en la oscuridad-.
Gentle RomanceThis book, like this author's other books, is written and set just after the Second World War. Her romances are funny, the characters are well written and often appear in other books. They are usually either set in the Cotswolds or in Scotland. She always describes the setting incredibly well, so you can almost imagine yourself there. I have always really enjoyed reading her books and as they are not in print now, I am delighted to see them available in Kindle Unlimited. D E Stevenson also has a large following on Facebook.
I really liked some of the characters here and wished they had more page time. Especially the end! This book was an all-too-brief glimpse into English village life and a few of its inhabitants. Stevenson had a way of tying stories together that is always delightful if also predictable. This is a mid range effort, better than her 60's era writing but not as good as her Mrs. Tim or Miss Buncle writing.
I read many D. E. Stevenson's books from the library when I was much younger. I really want to reread them but they are harder to find now that I read ebooks. I just bought 2 and I will gradually build up my personal library. They are delightful easy reads. Nice character development and interesting insights to the times.
I have not enjoyed a book like this in a long time. I love the characters. I laughed. I loved how the author described by action the hearts of the characters. While sitting next to the bed of someone in enormous pain and fearful the main character bows her head and prays silently and pours compassion on the woman. The woman begins to calm down and feels an ease of pain and so asks her what she is doing to her. She replies, “I am loving you.” This inspires me.
Charming, but ends on a cliffhanger so now I need to track down the next book in the series. I don't mind too much, but I like my stories wrapped up at the end.
I love these quiet, mid-century slice-of-English-life books and Stevenson is a master. Can't wait to read the other two books in this series.
