https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/581093.Theras_and_His_Town

I went into this book begrudgingly, reading it because I had to pre-read it for Eli’s history class. BUT! I really enjoyed it and learned so much about Ancient Greece. This book highlights the differences between ancient Athens and Sparta in an enjoyable way. Of course, there is much discussion of the Greek gods, but what a great springboard for discussion! Praise be to the one true and living God!
This was pretty good, but not great. We liked learning about Athens and Sparta, though the book was pretty heavy on Athens and not so much on Sparta. The writing is not fabulous, though, and we all thought the main character was a bit of a dweeb. He is often crying with glee, jumping up and down, clapping his hands, and acting rather babyish. We thought surely his "Spartan training" later in the book would knock the dweebiness out of him, but alas, no. Even the kids were rolling their eyes during moments at end of the book.
Theras and his town is an interesting, adventure full story. I would recommend this book for anyone looking for a quick read and enjoys suspense.
This is an exciting story for tweens and young teens who are studying Greek history. Although it has some moments of tension and even of horror, the ending is happy and goodness is celebrated throughout.This book includes many myths, legends, and famous Greek characters and clearly shows the difference between Athens and Sparta. As such it is an excellent companion to Famous Men of Greece but it can also stand alone or be used with any other children's history of ancient Greece.Note that Theras worships Athena and other gods. This forms a significant thread in the story.
When we started reading Theras and His Town a week or two ago, I thought it might be too juvenile for my 11-15-year-olds. They ended up enjoying it, though, and when I offered the choice of reading extra in it, or reading from one of a couple of other books we had going, they wanted to carry on with Theras.Read my full review here.
An enjoyable book that highlights the differences between Athens and Sparta. Snedeker's books' value lie in her research and coverage of Ancient Greece and Rome which is not often portrayed in historical fiction at the middle school level. She depicts the harshness of Spartan society without dwelling on it and the Athenians' love of beauty and the arts in the context of an interesting story with a sympathetic protagonist.
Theras and his town is badly written, including many grammatical errors. I enjoyed the concept, the comparison of Athens and Sparta, how radically different they are. I am glad I read it, but I read it for the idea.
I read this book years ago for school and I don't remember it that well, but occasionally bits and pieces of the story will flash through my mind. I thought this book was really neat how it showed the contrast between the Athenians and the Spartans.
As a homeshooled student, this was one of the books I had to read. I really really really enjoyed this book, and it STILL pops back into my memory from time to time. I think this book was the beginning of my love for historical fiction.
I had to read this book for my 6th grade class. It was not so bad, OK granted the writing is not that good and there are things that are not really believable in the plot, but come on: It's meant for 13 year old students.
Sweet historical novel for young children set in Ancient Athens and Sparta. I would have liked more historical detail, but the way the author weaves action and suspense into her sensitive, simple narrative style makes it perfect for young children.
Read aloud to my kids for school. The purpose was for them to see the contrast between life in Athens and Sparta. They loved it. I thought it was fine.
This is pretty good!!
Interesting portrayal of life in Athens and then contrasted with Sparta. Good, but not outstanding writing and storytelling.
Incredibly enjoyable to read and to think about.
it ruined it that i had to read it for school.
My mom read this book aloud to my siblings and me years ago, back when we were studying ancient Greece. I remember us all enjoying it.
Very simply but elegantly told. Gives a vivid picture of life for a young boy in Athens versus in Sparta. This book is probably best for about ages 6 to 10, and boys especially will enjoy it.
It was so much fun to relive the life of Theras. This is one of my favorite books!!!
I thought this book would be really boring, but it turned out to be one of my favorite school books so far!
Theras and His Town is historical fiction written for children that allows the reader to really get a good glimpse into life in Athens and Sparta and the extreme differences between the two. It is very biased toward Athens being good and Sparta being bad. I enjoyed it as much as my sons (even though I was reading it to my 8-year-old, my 10-year-old listened in and kept commenting on how good it was). I highly recommend it as a family read-aloud and for those studying ancient Greece.
This was a fun little book. I was a little worried at first when I saw multiple grammar mistakes in the first chapter, but as the book went on, Snedeker got into her stride and made a really meaningful story.
3 1/2 stars
This book isn't the most pleasing to read, format-wise, but it's finely crafted and has a happy ending.
I had 2 read this 4 school, so I guess that's why I didn't enjoy it as much as I would've if I had picked it myself. That's just me though. Pretty good.

I felt like this book was a history text with a storyline to make it palatable for the uninterested. The author often forsakes her story to ramble on about ancient Greece, and while this is quite fascinating and the author well informed, it doesn’t do much for the story.The story is about a boy from Athens who is sent to live with his uncle in Sparta after the death of his father. Theras does not like Sparta at all, and sees it as a savage place, and determines to get home to his beloved Athens any way that he can.
This was a great story about Athens and Spartans.
How different the two cities were and how their beliefs on God's were even different.
A young boy Theras was the main character.
His father left for war and the family was told that he had died.
A uncle came and took Theras away and put him in a Spartan training camp.
Theras met a boy, Abas and they eventually ran away.
They went thru a lot to get back to Athens.
When they came back Theras' father was alive and it was a great story on friendship, hardship, determination and love.
Great introduction to Athens and Sparta for kids. For such a simple book, there was a ton about the cultures of both places, especially Athens.
