https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43877.The_Monk_Who_Sold_His_Ferrari
Loved the message, just didn't like the format it was presented in.
Felt like the author just had a list of frequently asked questions and set out to answer each and every one of them one by one systematically, so there wasn't much narrative or actual enjoyment in the reading of it.
The "story" is essentially just 2 guys talking over dinner, actually only 1 guy talking (the titular Monk), the other guy is just there to ask the questions in between the long monologues and to confirm the Monk's answers.
كثيرة هي اسرار الحياة الجملية التي تعلمها جوليان من المعلم كريشنا , لكنه – اي جوليان – لن ينسى بالتأكيد أفضل ما دلّه عليه كريشنا وهو عالم السافانا.وفي هجرة صعبة تكبد فيها جوليان عناء التسلق إلى حيث العالم الجديد.
ويردف بعدها المعلم رامان قائلا : " اياك ان تتجاهل قوة البساطة " وكأنه يقول ان رموز هذه القصة الصغيرة بها أسرار الحياة يا جوليان.تمضي القصة شارحا فيها جوليان لصديقه جون كل الرموز السبعة وفضائلها والاساليب المتبعة لاسقاطها كمتغيرات على حياة الفرد.
"The monk who sold his Ferrari" can be called as life-changing novel!These kind of novels add essence to your life and gives you direction specially in the hard times.
How we can attain happiness and satisfaction?
It is our prerogative to lead a happy successful and rewarding life.
The novel tells the Vastness of India and the ancient techniques which our ancestors have been using since eternity which is the Secret of Life!This novel made me realise the Mortality of Humans and how each day counts infact each moment and each thought!It has transformed me and my life now is your turn..
Instead, there's a ton of new age advice espoused thru a very dumb fable that serves as some new age pnuemonic (which it takes John, the "student", most of the book to get and then is praised heavily by Julian, "the teacher" for this observation like a special ed teacher giving a student a lollipop for looking both ways before crossing the street.
here are some fun examples:"'Do I have to find a special lake to apply the Secret of the Lake?' I asked innocently.""Hardly 'new age,'" he said, with a broad grin lighting up his radiant face.Julian remembering the monks:"I still remember seeing these wonderful looking people seated on the little bamboo chairs reading their strangely bound books with the subtle smiles of enlightenment unforlding across their lips.""Easy, big fella!
Now I rarely read a book and stopped halfway.Unless if it's really really boring.Such as this one.And it wasn't supposed to be boring. Because it's a fable.But I didn't get anything out of it.So halfway reading, I skim through the rest.I have the habit of joting down verses/nice words from my readings and..this book failed to give me anything.Other than that.. I feel like it's a 'trying too hard version'of 'The Secret', 'Eat Pray Love' (the 'Pray section) and 'Tuesday with Morrie'So sadly to say, the only thing I like about this book is the title.
I started it about 10 times and dropped it like it's hot NOT.
How many times has this frakking Chinese legend been retold?
1000 times?
1000 times?
Including spam and ads on miraculous stuff to get my nonexistent dick larger!I can't even rate it properly.
The book seems ok but annoyingly, I can't read it or get even anywhere through it.
Maybe I need to first learn where that monk got his Ferrari?
So far the rating is somewhere in the vicinity of 2-3 stars.
Still, there is something wrong with this book, though I can't phrase what it is exactly.
بربكم هل هناك ما هو أسخف من هذا؟ و مع أنه (أي الكتاب) من المفترض به أن يكون مساعداً لنا لملئ فراغنا الروحي إلا أنه هو نفسه جاء فارغاً من المعنى و مملاً للغاية ، كما أنه يحتوي على العديد من العبارات المنمقة التي قد تخدعنا بصياغتها بالرغم من عدم صحتها ، و مثال ذلك حين قال جوليان (الشخصية الرئيسية في الكتاب) أن جميع الكتب لا تضيف لنا شيئاً جديداً نتعلمه ، بل هي تساعدنا في اكتشاف ذاتنا لأنها تستخرج ردات أفعالنا تجاه ما نقرأه .
The first time I read this book I just loved it. I read it at the time when I was asking myself questions regarding 'What to do with my life?'. I found the book very energizing, giving me a lot of inspiration and motivation to go on and many answers to my questions. When I read the book the second time, it didn't seem to have the same effect. PS! Who is looking for great literary value, will be disappointed. Sharma is no writer, but if you can focus on the message, it won't bother.
أشكر نفسي بحق على المجهود الذي بذلته لإنهاءهمن المفروض أنها رواية عن تحقيق الأحلام ، لكنها ليست إلا سرد طويل لتعاليم ما يُسمى بالحياة المستنيرة لدى حكماء السيفانا الهنود ، عن طريق حوار ممل بين ملقّن ومتلقّي ، وهكذا إلى نهاية الرواية ..
لا شيء أبداًالشكل الذي اتخذه هذا الشيء - الكتاب مجازاً - جعل منه مسخاً لا هو بكتاب تنمية بشرية ولا هو برواية !لكنني خرجت منه بثلاثة نتائج :- لا تنخدع بالعناوين الجذابة- لا تضع توقعات كبيرة للكتب التي يدّون على غلافها " بيع منه أكثر من مليون نسخة "- أن تصادف اقتباسات جميلة للكتاب في مواقع التواصل لا يعني أبداً أن الكتاب يستحق القراءة* الكتاب يحوي عبارات تحفيزية جميلة والإطلاع عليها يكفي تماماً ويُجزئ عن قراءته
If I could take back all the hours I spent on reading this crap, I would. To say I hated it would be an understatement. Oh, it changed my life indeed, after all, it almost turned me into a homicidal maniac. And I still don't get the fucking point of the book. Also, who the fuck sells their Ferrari? If there is anyone who's planning to do so after having read this book, feel free to contact me. I'm in the market for a new car anyway.
A mediocre book. Although the author has tried to make the book full of wisdom, it hardly achieve its desired result - of helping an individual; it utterly fails to make any impact.
THE  most useful book I have read so far!I guess, that when you read this book, if you open your mind to its ideas and concepts, you’re gonna find it revolutionizing and life changing. Otherwise, you’re just gonna think it’s boring and never go through with it. Well, in my case, and because I was looking for this kind of book for so long, I found it very useful, and I just KNOW that lots of things in my life won’t be the same because of it.In a very simple, yet very meaningful, short story Robi
most useful book I have read so far!I guess, that when you read this book, if you open your mind to its ideas and concepts, you’re gonna find it revolutionizing and life changing.
Otherwise, you’re just gonna think it’s boring and never go through with it.
Well, in my case, and because I was looking for this kind of book for so long, I found it very useful, and I just KNOW that lots of things in my life won’t be the same because of it.In a very simple, yet very meaningful, short story Robin Sharma was able to walk me, step by step, through an entire life philosophy that made so much sense!.It’s a 5 stars book, no doubt!The Arabic translation of the book was absolutely ridiculous, but I also listened to the audiobook and it was really cool to listen to Robin Sharma narrate it himself!.
Read a full review - BlogNever forget the importance of living with unbridled exhilaration. Never neglect to see the exquisite beauty in all living things. Today, and this very moment is a gift. Stay focused on your purpose. The Universe will take care of everything else. It is a recommendable read.
I am not a fan of personal development books written by so called motivational writers.
However, I received this as a gift from my best friend and I was feeling a little bit under the weather so I felt that some motivation was welcomed.
So, what do you do when you have absolutely nothing new to say but you want to make it interesting so everybody buys your book?
You add a bit of drama, a heart attack, which pushes the hero to quit his job and leave in a quest to find himself?
Maybe I could have digested all these ideas if the book had been well written.
Sweet mother of Jesus!! What was I trying to read??? This novel is a self-indulgent twaddle of a z-grade author!! What a load of rubbish.
Σε πολύ πρόσφατη κριτική μου σε βιβλίο του Γιάλομ έγραφα ότι τελικά δεν υπάρχει βιβλίο που μπορείς να το προτείνεις στον άλλο, ότι δηλαδή διάβασε αυτό το βιβλίο γιατί εμένα μου άλλαξε τη ζωή και το ίδιο θα κάνει και με τη δική σου γιατί πολύ απλά κάθε άνθρωπος τελικά έχει διαφορετικά βιώματα και διαφορετικές ανάγκες, ίσως αν θέλετε και ανάγκη ν΄ ακούσει διαφορετικά πράγματα οπότε εκ των πραγμάτων δεν είναι όλα τα βιβλία για όλους.
Χωρίς να θέλω σε καμία περίπτωση ν’ αμφισβητήσω ότι ο συγγραφέας ανήκει πραγματικά στην κατηγορία των πεφωτισμένων εκείνων ανθρώπων που κατάφεραν ν ‘ αλλάξουν τη ζωή τους κάνοντας τ’ αυτονόητα στη δική μου περίπτωση η καταγραφή αυτών των βασικών αρχών μέσα στο βιβλίο δεν στάθηκε αρκετή αν θέλετε για να με παρακινήσει να κάνω το βήμα παραπέρα, ν’ αναλύσω, να καταγράψω.
الكتاب بشكل عام يحث على عدم اليأس من هموم الحيآة مشآكلها ومصآئبها ،،ايضا كآنت محاولة من الكآتب في نقل الثقآفة الهندية إلي الغرب ،، ومحآولة التأثير بالرجل الغربي وصرفه عن مآيسمى "بالحلم الامريكي"، والذي يعتقده الغرب ،، هو مآيحيآ من اجله الرجل الغربي أيضا نجح في تصوير او تشبيه عقل الانسآن بالحقل او الحديقة ،، فكلما اهتممت به وزينته بالازهآر النآفعة ،،كلما سآندك ورفع من قدرك امام الناس وكلما سقيته بالعالم النافع ،، اثمر بالافكار الثمينة كتاب يستحق الاقتناء ومفيد لمن يبحث عن تطوير وانارة عقله
أبدع روبن شارما في راويته هذه لأبعد الحدود، فهي حقًا مع راوية ‘الخيميائي’ أفضل الروايات التي قرأتها في حياتي ..تدور أحداث هذه الرواية حول محامي من الطبقة الثرية، الطبقة المخملية، المترفة، الذي يملك كل شيء : أرقام فليكة، قصر يسكن فيه، سيارة فيراري، سمعة مهنية براقة ..
فيسافر لجبال التبت بحثًا عن حكمة الشرق ورحانيته وهناك يتلقي الحكماء وينهل منهم حكمة التغيير الشخصي ..وبأسلوب أدبي جميل، يعرض جوليان مانتل (المحامي الذي ترهب) تجربته مع التغيير لصديقه المقرب ويشاركه ماتعلمه هناك وينقل له (ولنا) الشغف تجاه التغيير ..لا يمكنني تلخيص أفكار الرواية وماتعرضه من فلسفة تغيير عميقة، فلا بد من قرائتها كاملة …أحد أفضل الكتب التي قرأتها في حياتي
Ενα βιβλίο που αξίζει να το διαβάσει κάθε αναγνώστης και να το έχει στη βιβλιοθήκη του. Δεν πρόκειται βέβαια για λογοτεχνία, αλλά για ένα βιβλίο /οδηγό για το σύγχρονο άνθρωπο που συχνά χάνει το πραγματικό νόημα της ζωής και αναλώνεται σε ανούσια θέματα που απομυζούν το χρόνο και την ύπαρξή του. Αλληγορικό και ανθρώπινο μπορεί να μας βοηθήσει να βελτιώσουμε τις σχέσεις μας με τον εαυτό μας και τους γύρω μας
΄Ενα βιβλίο που αξίζει να το διαβάσει κάθε αναγνώστης και να το έχει στη βιβλιοθήκη του. Δεν πρόκειται βέβαια για λογοτεχνία, αλλά για ένα βιβλίο /οδηγό για το σύγχρονο άνθρωπο που συχνά χάνει το πραγματικό νόημα της ζωής και αναλώνεται σε ανούσια θέματα που απομυζούν το χρόνο και την ύπαρξή του. Αλληγορικό και ανθρώπινο μπορεί να μας βοηθήσει να βελτιώσουμε τις σχέσεις μας με τον εαυτό μας και τους γύρω μας
THE MONK WHO SOLD HIS FERRARI didn't start off well for me because I absolutely detest fables; my idea of cruel and unusual punishment is being forced to re-read THE CELESTINE PROPHECY, for example.
They also tend to be written by people who, while extremely wise and with something very worthwhile and interesting to say, have no flair for writing fiction, and the whole thing just ends up being clunky, cheesy and unreadable, a faint burn of embarrassment for the author coming to your cheeks as you read.
I've just described the first 2-3 chapters of this book, but please: push through.
There's so many great insights in this book, and endless quotations for you to highlight or stick somewhere prominent.
أحب قراءة مواضيع في التنمية البشرية على شكل رواية أكثر من أسلوب التلقين الذي يأتي على شكل نقاط أو نصائح وإرشادات ... أعجبتني هذه الرواية كثيرا وأنصح كل من يمر بمرحلة ضيق في الوقت أو عسر في هضم الأهداف أو صعوبة في المضي قدما في طريق الحياة البسيط الصحيح، أن يقرأ هذه الرواية وأن يشرب كوب شاي اخضر أيضاً .. كتاب أكثر من رائع .. وقراءته ممتعة بحق
The monk who sold his Ferrari, is a misleading title.
The man who sold his Ferrari and became a monk, would have been more accurate.
The book itself was a merger between fiction and instruction on techniques to perfect your life experience.
It’s an easy to read book (I read it in an afternoon) and the structure works well making it easy to remember what went before, or where to look for a particular part.However, I don’t feel helped.
I don’t feel like my life has been enlightened.
I feel like I’ve been told to get up earlier in the morning and meditate.
كتاب مذهل !!وكأنه هدية من الله لي في هذه المرحلة الحرجة من حياتي
A lot irritated by the narration, but not the content.May be it is my prejudice - I find the "fable" approach to self-help books tedious to read.
came highly recommended, and hence I plunged in.The book starts off on a promising note - hot-shot lawyer has a heart-attack in court, right after winning a big case.
Setting aside some "quiet time" on a daily basis.4.
Get your priorities right - not a lot of people on their death-bed wishing that they had spent more time at work.This book could have been a LOT BETTER had the author dropped the "fable approach", and just presented his ideas in a straight-forward manner.
ربما كان أهم فصل هو الفصل التاسع الذي أعطى فيه الراهب الطقوس العشر. حلول عملية١- طقس الاختلاء٢- طقس الجسد (٥ ساعات رياضة اسبوعيا)٣- طقس الغذاء الصحي (خضار)٤- القراءة (٣٠ دقيقة يوميا)٥- طقس التأمل الشخصي (الداخلي)٦- الصلاة (شكرا)٧- العيش التابض بالحياة (الاستماع للموسيقى)٨- طقس الكلمة الملفوظة (عبارات ذات قيمة)٩- طقس الشخصية المنسجمة (اجراءات لبناء الشخصية)١٠- طقس البساطة (الملبس غير الفاخر والتقليل من كمية الطعام) لا حاجة لقراءة الكتاب إن كنتم تؤمنون بأهمية الطقوس السابقة الذكر :)
It's the type of book that reminds you of life lessons you probably knew but never applied. It touches upon simple things that we can do that will make big differences in our lives.
Only book in my life which I tried to read 6 times and never got out past 80 Pages every time. And given-up finally :(Julian, the lead, clearly looked as constructed to frame the story, seems very boring and hence big turn-off.
Just another terribly mediocre book trying to sell some cheap philosophy!
It talks about all the right things that are necessary to lead a fulfilling life in the right spirit.
The points that the writer addresses and the wisdom that he shares through this story might seem obvious to the reader initially yet we'll feel so much of it never occurred to us because we always forget to give these things proper thought and reflection amidst the hustle bustle of our daily lives.
Just as we love to nourish our senses and mind, we also need to nourish our spirit and soul from time to time which is why I strongly recommend this book to all readers of all ages.

