https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184085.Steal_This_Book
If so, then maybe don't give ammunition to the dicks on the right who want to shut them down because of "all the fraud" that goes on by lying your able bodied, 20 something, silver spoon hippie selves into drawing their benefits.Number two: Just cause saying "don't hurt people" when you give instructions to people to arm themselves and blow up buildings covers your ass legalistically, It doesn't make it in any way acceptable.
He didn't exactly come up with the material in the book on his own, so much as he joined up with the Digger movement in San Francisco and turned their means of feeding, clothing and housing people into a how-to manual for freeloaders.
Basically, Abbie Hoffman is a Dick.I recently discovered a 1971 copy of Steal This Book at a yard sale.
It's nice to see that the Digger Spirit is still alive even though Abbie Hoffman is a Dick.
I'm giving this book 4 stars because it is historically and culturally significant and because it's fascinating.
It lost a star because Abbie Hoffman is a Dick.
I actually stole this book from a used bookstore in Kerrville, Texas. I got a lot of good yet useless (I tried 'em, they did not work) ideas on anarchy and how to score free stuff. All in all, an enjoyable read. How can I complain? Didn't cost a dime.
Abbie Hoffman wrote Steal This Book while incarcerated.
I read the first 95 pages in earnest, then just skipped through the rest of the book to get a general feel for the ideas he was promoting.
Supporters called this book "an instruction manual for radical social change." Nothing could be further from the truth.
What Hoffman really wanted was for society to stay exactly as it was, so he and his reefer-head, freeloading friends could continue taking advantage of the system.
Want social change?
For a few good laughs, flip through and see how much things have changed in 40 years.
When I was a teenager, I went into the respectable little bookstore in my respectable little town and asked "Do you have a copy of Steal This Book?" The respectable librarianesque owner looked over the top of her reading-glasses-on-a-chain and dryly replied, "We don't sell those kinds of books here.""What kind of books?" I asked, with much surprise bouncing through my Colombian gold-addled mind.Again, she peered down her nose and said, "We don't sell anti-social, anti-establishment books." And she turned and walked away.Naturally, I HAD to have the book at that point.
Perhaps the best title ever for a non-fiction book.
This is a self-liberation manual.
Full of practical advice.
How to use a penny for a nickel in a pay phone, for instance.
All of it now an intoxicating trip into the Hippie past.
My copy is highlighted.
I read it when I could actually use the info.
But I don't think I actually used any of it, except the address of the Berkeley Free Clinic.
The info wasn't really the point.
Hoffman was propagating a state of mind: an attitude toward authority, and toward the adventure of living.
Just steal some, duhhhhh.Seriously, I know I'm paraphrasing here, but the book pretty much reads as such.Good lord, no wonder the Hell's Angels loved to beat the crap out of Abbie and the other Chicago Seven.
It boggles my mind how so many people bought into their crap.God, I don't even really know where to begin with why you A) should not READ this book and B) even bother to steal it.
Abbie does a wonderful job of trying to claim that the book wasn't taken on by publishers because they feared it would ruin "free speech" for everyone.
Steal This Book is a self-righteous manual about theft, vandalism, exploitation of the charitable, and even murder.
When I read this book out of curiosity, I found the author's intolerance, hatred, arrogance, and ignorance nauseating.
It revolted me that such a self-revealed monster as Abbie Hoffman was ever taken seriously by the counterculture of the United States.
When I read the book, I was appalled by his sociopathy.
Stealing from them is justified because they are evil capitalists.
His self-removal from the human race is not something that fills me with regret.Still, the book has a great title.
My mom didn't like that I was reading this one because of the ways it taught you how to steal, and the cynical view of the government, but I think it served a purpose at the time. More of a hippie history book than anything.
This book freaking RULES. Why, oh why did the sixties have to end?*(*because of Kent State, Altamont, Heroin, and to make way for disco, silly!)
Sorely out of date due to changes in technology, security, and culture. Still a fascinating time capsule, and Hoffman's heart is in the right place if one's curious about radical politics. In a lot of ways, our society is more controlling and oppressive than in the '70s. (A number of actions described in the book would get one prosecuted for terrorism today, for instance.) It leaves the reader a lot to think about, even if the techniques herein would no longer be possible.
I'm re-reading this book, which reeks of early 1970s hippie fuck-The-Man counter-culturalism, in 2010. It's a trip. You're supposed to steal everything you can, of course. Most impressively, he also encourages you to skyjack commercial aircraft, for example with a knife or fake explosives, and fly off to friendly countries. (p. 39) Uh huh. What, exactly, was this dude smoking?!
'Steal this Book' is a rambling tirade about class envy and hatred of the rich.
Because this book gives you amazing insight into the mind of an extreme left-wing, hate-filled socialist.
If you've ever wondered what motivates people like Hillary, this is a real eye-opener.
Reading it, you get a real sense of the radical anti-business ideas that were beginning to fester in colleges during the late 60's.
Most of the people who were part of that movement outgrew it --- as they got real jobs, did productive things, and raised families of their own.
I was an elementary school-aged kid when I first saw this book at a neighbor's house, sitting on the kitchen table. It had such an interesting title that I flipped through it and saw the illustration of the shoplifter in the trench coat. It was a revelation: You don't have to pay for stuff you take from the store! This idea pushed me down a slippery slope of price-tag switching, shoplifting, scams, sabotage, shooting heroin into your eyeballs, and worshipping Satan. Just kidding. It made me into an English teacher: Who else would steal a book like this?

The book is out-dated but the philosophy is and always will be applicable.At times I would smile to myself while fondly thinking of how technology has made things so much easier to steal, but in reading some sections it becomes glaringly obvious how technology has made it so much harder to rip some industries off.I also learned to always wear a helmet and a gas mask.And that if I'm getting rapped to yell "I have VD!"
I read this in the UC Santa Cruz library, in a special 'rare book area' that i couldn't get out of, with a librarian sitting at a desk behind me watching very closely. I had to submit to a search of my backpack before and after reading. I hope that Vol. II can give me some pointers on how to steal Vol. I from the UC Santa Cruz library.
When I give it five stars, I should probably add that that is from the viewpoint of an 18-year-old who grew up thinking he'd be drafted to go to Viet Nam and was still P.O.'d that he'd been too young to go to Woodstock.
This book cracked me up and had dozens of tips on how to do things that I was way too square to try but young enough to fantasize about doing--and being a chemistry student at the time, all of Jerry Froines' recipes for trouble made sense.
I'd suggest that if you read this, first put yourself in the mindset of a college student during the Viet Nam war.
I got this book because I was curious, but I ended up disappointed. I thought it would be full of cool little underground tips for getting by in society, but its just full of out of date ways to steal; ie, How to defraud the welfare office, make a pipe bomb, steal from a payphone...Not worth reading.
A waste of paper then, and a waste of pixels now.
This seemed like a book that I should have read, just because of its role in history.
Hoffman provides great resources such as inexpensive simple recipes, and lists of organizations and societies that may or may not be outdated.
At the end he provides a section about several major cities (f*** Chicago, f*** New York, f*** San Francisco) and tells where in these cities to acquire goods and services for little to no money.
But perhaps Abbie Hoffman was never aware of this sort of thing.
Like an unearthed copy of 'The Occupy Movement Handbook 1.0', this is a primer on getting by without giving in to 'the man'.(There are major differences; this book is a broad and deep argument that justifies theft of all kinds for the purpose of getting by outside the system, while the current occupy movement is considerably more scrupulous, and possibly quite a bit more world-wise.)The most interesting things about this book: 1.) Abbie Hoffman's style was always good, and it is both good, and also pragmatic here.
Lots of the how-to tips are for scamming the system to get free things like travel.
Of course, the 1960s counter-culture movement had a lot to offer, but I suppose every movement has its extremist segment.In general, I dislike the writings of people coming from well-off backgrounds (like Abbie Hoffman's comfortably middle-class family) who fetishize poverty and "the virtuous poor" because they've never had to suffer from genuine want.
I begin to dislike the writers themselves when they decide to play at poverty, and begin leaching away at the resources available to those who are suffering under the weight of actual hardship (thanks a lot for encouraging wealthy young yippies to go to homeless shelters, Abbie Hoffman).
Сразу о главном: несмотрия ни на что - я явно ВОПРЕКИ замыслу автора!
ВСЁ, о чём предостерегал Эбби Хоффман, сбылось.
Более того, он И ПРЕДСТАВИТЬ себе не мог, насколько всё будет ГАЖЕ и ПОДЛЕЕ, чем это рисовалось в шестидесятые - семидесятые в самых мрачных прогнозах.
От того, что происходяще вокруг кажется обыденным, оно не перестаёт быть чудовищным.
В общем, очень печально сознавать, что все предостережение оказались напрасны: "Ах, Боже мой, что б с нами было, когда бы это всё не зря..." Добавляет эмоций, конечно, и трагическая история самого Хоффмана.
В общем - такая, знаете, апокалиптическая книжка получается...
I was around 20, and even though most of the advice was obsolete (and more was becoming obsolete--subway tokens and old-school turnstiles were on their way out for the MBTA the year I got this book), the very idea of someone compiling advice on how to scam a little bit of everything for free was very powerful.I put this in a lending library my roommates and I kept in a spare room and, ironically, it was the only book that was never returned!
I hope the new owner enjoyed it and passed it on as well.
Good book but it should be called "Steal this book in USA", because it is for people living in USA, the things in Europe and other parts of the world are much different than those described in this book, so it can't be used here.
I found this - I don't remember where. But its reputation preceded it, and I just had to read all those dangerous subversive things that were in it.I never made a bomb, but I used the bread recipe once. It turned out pretty well.
Never read the thing cover to cover but did spend a number of hours browsing and pouring over the cartoons and diagrams. It's on my must re-read list
Steal this buffalo?!? Out-of-date and ranty at best, it's worth reading if, for nothing else: Speed kills. Needles kill. Shoot Richard Nixon instead. Ahhhhhh, good times.
F@#$@n Hippi
