https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82022.A_Man_Called_Intrepid
4.5 stars - highly recommendedI was seven months old when HMAS Sydney was sunk by the German raider Kormoran in November 1941 killing all 645 Australian naval personnel on board including my father.
I read this book when it was first published in the mid 70's and it was probably even better second time around.
For anyone interested in WW II it has everything: politics, intrigue, heroism, espionage, all on an almost unworldly scale, but for sheer doggedness and dedication to his country and his cause, Bill Stephenson, known as Intrepid, stands like a colossus astride the deadly conflict imposed by Adolf Hitler on Europe and the free world (plus Russia which, while an ally, was hardly "free").
A real-life W2 thriller you won't forget, from the sinking of the Bismarck, the development of the A bomb, the Isolationism of America prior to Pearl Harbor, the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich ("the butcher of Prague"), the exploits of a beautiful Allied spy code-named CYNTHIA and the perfidy of monstrous Stalin, to the double-crossing-defeatist US Ambassador Joseph P. Kennedy. Minor heroic roles by Ian Fleming, Leslie Howard and good deeds by Garbo.
It is likely the first, and probably the most comprehensive, account of William Stephenson's role in building the vast and indispensable intelligence network that kept Great Britain in the fight long enough to compel American intervention, and which eventually formed the backbone of intelligence gathering and strategic operations on the Allied side throughout WW2.
Many of the examples presented from the war in Europe highlight such conflicts poignantly.The greatest flaw of this book is that it focuses almost entirely on the years 1939 through 1942 in Europe and the Americas.
The Pacific campaigns are barely touched upon and events in the war and in intelligence after 1942 are sketched very lightly.
Presumably this reflects a more limited involvement--or greater reticence--in these affairs by his subject.
In any case, this is not a general survey of Allied intelligence coordination during the second world war.
It is, however, within its limits, a fine book.
Author William Stevenson makes clear that Hitler’s Third Reich was the first modern terroristic state and it used the latest technology to subdue—or annihilate—the will of others to defend themselves.It would be impossible to write the entire story of how Nazi totalitarianism was defeated through espionage and resistance movements; therefore, Stevenson concentrates on British Security Coordination (BSC) and its leader, William Stephenson.
No daring bit of intrigue that ever appeared in one of Fleming’s novels has ever topped the actual operations that BSC routinely ran from 1938 through the end of the war.Author Stevenson makes very clear the difficult moral decisions that had to be made.
Came across a mention of this book on Goodreads and remembered reading it years ago. Its about the birth of the British Secret Service during the second world war - what was to later become MI6. And about two men's determination not to lose a lost war: Winston Churchill, and William Stephenson. It offers fascinating insights into how individual events change the course of history, and how easily everything could have been otherwise. Also, it's difficult to forget because of a quirky little detail -- it's the biography of William Stephenson, written by William Stevenson, no relation.
It was very interesting: I definitely learned a lot that I hadn't known before, and I consider myself pretty knowledgeable about World War II.Sometimes I was getting lost in where we were and what was happening in the rest of the world at this time.
It's easy to forget how close we really were to Hitler conquering the world: the US was reluctant to join the war, in most cases not because we weren't sure that Hitler was a megalomanic or would attack us eventually, but because it was felt that England was already a lost cause and we might as well not waste any more effort in keeping them out of Hitler's clutches.
Fantastic book, loved the writing, it's a great page turner too.
It was Stephenson who essentially hand-picked Bill Donovan to be the US liaison with the British secret service (incredible as it might seem the US didn't have any spy capability at the beginning of the war short of some FBI stuff) and Donovan went on to head the OSS which evolved into what is now known as CIA.
Reading this book is I think essential for anyone who thinks they know the full story of WWII.
And Stephenson's (Intrepid) early role wasn't about setting up an intelligence network to help military operations against the Nazis' but to prepare for operations during the German occupation of Britain.
But yesterday I heard an interview on NPR with Pat Buchanan and upon reflection changed my rating to 5 stars.Buchanan defended his choice to support Donald Trump as the Republican nominee for President while at the same time lauding his own proclamations and predictions which he believes to have come true.
Which is why our enemies would like to isolate the United States and see her retreat from the confusion and the chaos as she did during the rise of the Third Reich.”​A MAN CALLED INTREPID tells the story of Britain’s spy network during World War II and her collaboration (not always friendly) with the US, Canada, and European Resistance to help defeat Hitler.
Not a bad novel although the author is naive to think Stephenson, Roosevelt or Churchill were any better than their enemies. They were willing to sacrifice innocent victims (Coventry) and naval divisions (Dieppe) as part of their "end justifies the means" philosophy. That intel is of critical importance in war is obvious and the allies were fortunate that the Third Reich were more concerned with mass exterminations.
Loved this! Not the easiest or quickest book to read but so so so interesting. This is a book I'll go back to a few more times to remind myself of an amazing man called Intrepid.
A fascinating look into the secret war waged by British and American intelligence against Nazi Germany.
Is it possible today for us to imagine a government deciding to allow a German bombing raid to succeed, resulting in the deaths of thousands, in order to keep its knowledge of the enemy's secret codes undetected?There are limitations though.
Most likely because some secrets still needed to be hidden from the Soviets.The book also cuts off sharply in 1943, presumably because the British intelligence agency that INTREPID was heading was shut down in the U.S. and the atomic program was also taken over in the main by the U.S. government.

A consummate intelligence officer's survey of WWII from a British perspective.The 5-Star rating was earned because of the exhaustive telling of the story of WWII intelligence gathering and resistance by a wide variety of people of many nations. This was my first exploration into the covert operations ranging from guerrilla action to atomic research. The story of cooperation and concern between the western allies is eye-opening.I recommend to anyone deeply interested in this focused telling of history's most cataclysmic disaster.
Very intriguing readI learned a lot while reading this book all of which was not taught in schools because of the secrecy invoked by the government's at the time and even to this day is a lot of knowledge of what went on and happened still is unknown and or may never be known
Ian Fleming himself once wrote, "James Bond is a highly romanticized version of a true spy. The real thing is ... William Stephenson."
This is the second time I've read this book. I enjoyed it very much again and thirty years of experience gave me new insights into the challenges "Intrepid" faced and overcame.
Read 3 times,...
มีการเลาเรืองทีเหมือนจังหวะการเตนรำทีเดินหนาถอยหลังหมุนวนอยูรอบสถานการณจนแจมแจงแลวจึงขยับไปเลาเรืองตอๆ ไปดวยวิธีเดียวกันการดำเนินเรืองจึงเปนไปอยางชาๆไมไดเนนทีความตืนเตนในยุทธการศึกไมไดออกแนวนิยายสายลับอยางทีเขาใจในคราแรกแตเนนความครอบคลุมรอบดานของขอมูลทีตองการจะเลาเนนทีการวางชันเชิงทางสงครามมากกวาผูอานทีชอบในเรืองของประวัติศาสตรสงครามทำนองแฟนพันธุแทสงครามโลก นาจะอานสนุกมีอะไรอีกหลายอยางทีอยากพูดถึงหนังสือเลมนีเราเลาเอาไวละเอียดกวานีทีนีคะhttp://www.sosotopia.com/%E0%B8%99%E0...
มีการเล่าเรื่องที่เหมือนจังหวะการเต้นรำที่เดินหน้าถอยหลังหมุนวนอยู่รอบสถานการณ์จนแจ่มแจ้งแล้วจึงขยับไปเล่าเรื่องต่อๆ ไปด้วยวิธีเดียวกันการดำเนินเรื่องจึงเป็นไปอย่างช้าๆไม่ได้เน้นที่ความตื่นเต้นในยุทธการศึกไม่ได้ออกแนวนิยายสายลับอย่างที่เข้าใจในคราแรกแต่เน้นความครอบคลุมรอบด้านของข้อมูลที่ต้องการจะเล่าเน้นที่การวางชั้นเชิงทางสงครามมากกว่าผู้อ่านที่ชอบในเรื่องของประวัติศาสตร์สงครามทำนองแฟนพันธุ์แท้สงครามโลก น่าจะอ่านสนุกมีอะไรอีกหลายอย่างที่อยากพูดถึงหนังสือเล่มนี้เราเล่าเอาไว้ละเอียดกว่านี้ที่นี่ค่ะhttp://www.sosotopia.com/%E0%B8%99%E0...
William Stephenson bore the code name Intrepid during World War II. He earned a British knighthood and the Medal for Merit from the United States, among other honors, for his work. A Man Called Intrepidtells the behind the scenes story of the war and some of the spy missions and intelligence gathering involved. It answers some questions of why things were done the way they were. Sometimes the writing can be long-winded, but for the most part, this is a very interesting book. I recommend it to people interested in World War II.
It really is an incredible story.Why don't they teach this in school?
Here's what I basically learned about WW2 in school: "Oh look it's almost the end of school.
We'd better get this unit in on WW2!
"Hitler killed Jews, which was bad.
Japan bombed Pearl Harbor, and surprised the U.S. The U.S. Interred Japanese-Americans and dropped the A bomb, which was bad.
The end" This book tells the story of how Hitler could have prevailed, and why he didn't; how a secret war was fought and hard, hard choices were made.
Really, this is history that ought to be taught in schools.
A revealing account of the secret efforts to end world war II.
The man Intrepid in some sense answers the long existing question, "what can one man do in the face of chaos and adversity?".
In addition it is a definite yes to anyone looking to fill the gaps on untold history secrets.
e.g. Ian Fleming (who created James bond movies) was a secret agent himself.A definite read.
You can't miss the intelligence of the writer "Stevenson", who uncovers so much of the buried history, while hiding the bits of the story that can't yet be revealed, to protect identities.
Very interesting book, with lots of information. The style of writing though is very very British. My parents are British (I was raised in America) and so that could potentially influence how I read the author's "voice." But it's not a style that I find enjoyable. It's stiff, academic, and snooty. I got through the book in spite of his writing, not because of it.
This is not only a story of a real World War II spy, but the incredible network of civilian soldiers throughout the U.S and Europe. More impressive is the fact that this info was not leaked by any of the thousands who covertly participated. Eventually, it was revealed to us through declassification by the government in the '70's.
The information in this book is astonishing and gives great perspective about World War II. What a huge debt the free world owes to some very brave and selfless people whose stories can often not be told.The book itself could benefit, in my opinion, from better editing. Still, I'm glad I read it, even though it's taken me a really long time.
This book was fascinating and illuminated some of the many guerrilla acts that were imperative to winning World War II. Unfortunately, it was way too long and often included superfluous information. I also wasn’t a fan of the fact that much of it was not chronological and the author would jump back and forth between different years, which was difficult to follow.
This book, a non-fiction account of British and U.S. intelligence cooperation to counter the rise of the Third Reich, was depressingly relevant and horrifyingly complex.
I mean I was continually shocked by both the necessity for strategy, incredible intelligence, and prescient bravery, and by the U.S. public's horrible passive and even active acceptance of Nazi propaganda.
I was sickened by the dozens of incidents this book describes where the western civilized world was nearly lost to Nazi authoritarianism while millions of self-righteous zealots thought the U.S. should not get involved.
The book is really a series of true stories about operations run by Stephenson out of his headquarters in New York City.
I recommend this book to anyone with an interest in World War II or espionage in general.
The capture of the Enigma Machine and various related codebooks, the issues involved in the ill-fated, and infrequently discussed raid on Dieppe, and the exfiltration of Niels Bohr, and the raid on the Shell Building in Denmark are some of the particular operations that remain with me after reading "A Man Called Enigma".
The author appears to have spent a good time talking to Stephenson, who was still alive in the ‘70s when the book was written.
(For example, the story about Churchill knowing that Coventry was going to be bombed but allowing it so as not to let the Germans know he was reading their ciphers has been basically debunked.) I admit (somewhat ashamedly) that I didn’t know all that much about the details of WWII, and I learned a lot.
He was well placed, and with good knowledge of radio stuff to more-or-less run Britain’s intelligence in WWII.
