https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26236956-the-obsession
Yet, I seem to be the minority as it gets shining reviews on GoodReads.Naomi was only 12 years old when she saved a young woman from one of the most notorious serial killers the country has ever known.
It was off to a great start, Naomi as a young girl saving the woman and discovering that her father was a viscous serial killer.
Oh wait its probably nothing, I'm overreacting" or "Its ok, you can leave me alone with a serial killer after me, I've locked these GLASS DOORS, nobody is getting in.." Sigh.I think this book was a 3 star read for me up until the end with the dog in the hospital.
1,5 starsLet me start by stating that I've been a HUGE NORA ROBERTS fan for years and years. But something seems to be off with her latest books...........maybe it's just me, but the spark in the earlier books is missing!And The Obsession had a "spark" missing for me!!!The beginning was pretty good and I began thinking...yay....this is going to be a winner!!! But by the middle..........hell, forget the winner!!! It was downhill all the way. I just wanted to scream....  The only characters I kind
1,5 starsLet me start by stating that I've been a HUGE NORA ROBERTS fan for years and years.
But something seems to be off with her latest books...........maybe it's just me, but the spark in the earlier books is missing!And The Obsession had a "spark" missing for me!!!The beginning was pretty good and I began thinking...yay....this is going to be a winner!!!
It felt old story again!!!I know that the majority of the reviews are high but for me..........this one didn't do it!!!!In fact, I'm seriously rethinking any future Nora Roberts books..........
Rooms, plans and furniture descriptions.
Everybody comes to see the new house.Filler.Renovations ideas.
Construction work.Filler.Descriptions of the heroine painting a room.
Construction work.Filler.Furniture descriptions of the friend’s house.
New ideas.More filler.Furniture descriptions of the hero’s house.
Taking photos of the said house.Filler.Furniture descriptions of the heroine’s house.
(view spoiler)[The hero tells the heroine to leave her light on if she wants to have sex for the first time with him.
(I forgot whose house it was this time.)The icing on the cake?(view spoiler)[ The heroine hides her identity because her father was a serial killer.
Naomi Bowes lost her innocence the night she followed her father into the woods. In freeing the girl trapped in the root cellar, Naomi revealed the horrible extent of her father’s crimes and made him infamous.  With that description, I was pretty sure I was going to be hooked on this one straight away. And I was.  Now a successful photographer living under the name Naomi Carson, she has found a place that calls to her, thousands of miles away from everything she’s ever known. Naomi wants to em
Naomi Bowes lost her innocence the night she followed her father into the woods.
Now a successful photographer living under the name Naomi Carson, she has found a place that calls to her, thousands of miles away from everything she’s ever known.
Naomi wants to embrace the solitude, but the residents of Sunrise Cove keep forcing her to open up―especially the determined Xander Keaton.
Naomi can feel her defenses failing, and knows that the connection her new life offers is something she’s always secretly craved.
But as she’s learned time and again, her past is never more than a nightmare away.
4.5 stars!!This book reminded me why I love Nora Roberts.
And although I haven't picked up a Nora Roberts book in a long time, I still count her as one of the greats who really fed on my romance addiction.
The present being Naomi having just bought a huge house in the middle of Nowhere, America despite not wanting roots and all the responsibilities that come along with it.
And at first, I was concerned that The Obsession was going to be one of those great suspense but weak romance type of book.
Aside from Naomi and Xander, this book has so many characters that stood out to me.
I don't know why anybody would do what he did."I loved the first of the book.
The character of Naomi when she was a little girl was very strong and grew up into an even stronger woman.
The book tells the story of what Naomi, her brother Mason, and her mom go through with the dad going to jail.
Naomi's uncle Seth and partner Harry had the family come live with them.
I loved Tag the dog :-) This is the part of the book that dragged me down a little because nothing really exciting happened.
I think I know but I won't say.
I could feel the hot oppressive night, sense things about Naomi's father that her young mind simply accepted as normal .
It would look odd not to engage with locals and the last thing Naomi wants is to inspire curiosity .
Of course there is the big secret that Naomi hides casting it's shadow but it doesn't stop her starting to live again .
This was a solid story and yes I did guess but there was a huge clue given shortly after work in the house commenced but that didn't spoil my enjoyment one iota.
A compelling romantic suspense story.Needless to say, Nora Roberts is a master storyteller, with the plots that grab you from the first to the last page and the characters that you are interested to learn more about.
It was so lovely, heartwarming, and beautiful that I couldn’t have asked for a better one!Even though it wasn’t difficult for me to guess who the bad guy was, the suspense was gripping and very well-written.
So, I must admit that Naomi sort of rubbed me the wrong way every time she tried to push Xander away.
Then again, probably not.All the good book ideas are taken...In this book, we have Naomi, a photographer who just bought a giant-ass house by the beach and is completely renovating.
I think if she ever had a chubby, short, long-haired female who's a bit on the clingy side as her heroine, I'd wonder if someone stole her identity and kept writing books in her name.Sorry, angry cat.
First, her father, then she finally lets a man in her life and he's a serial killer too.
But, there is something about the way Roberts write her books that just doesn't work for me.
For some reason, I can't stand the way Roberts write romance.
Up until Xander, the book was good (despite me suspecting and guessing right what would happen later on), but after that, the book quickly turned less enjoyable and I started to skim through the book so that I could get to the end.
Unfortunately, there are no surprises in the book, I feel that Roberts has found a safe way to write and sell books and then she stuck to it.
Omg! This is by far the best book I have read this year. I've always loved Nora's books and this one hooked me from page one. Once I started reading I couldn't put THE OBSESSION down. It took me almost until the end of the book to figure out who was obsessed with Naomi. I found myself cheering for her and hoping she could get past all the tragic things she saw in her life. Be prepared to do nothing once you start reading her heartbreaking tale.ARC received from Netgalley for an honest review.
Yes, you can tell from the blurb that something horrible happens, since Naomi is rescuing some woman from a cellar, but this is a central theme throughout the book.Rape and torture happen, not just once or twice, but multiple times, and we experience these things from not just the heroine's speculation and memories, but from the perpetrator's thoughts.
There have been a couple of times while reading this book that it's been a bit too much for me.
This probably affected my reading and, consequently, how I feel about this book overall.Nora Roberts' books and I have a long and varied history.
I’m not a big fan of her trilogies, those are hits and misses but her hardcovers are something I look forward to every single year.Of course some speak to me more than others, but I liked this one a lot, enough to read it a second time this week.If a book has either of these ingredients I’m a very happy reader….A puppy or adorable dog.An artist, like a photographer.Flipping or remodeling houses.A strong and manly guy that’s sneaky and determined.And a happy ending.
Interesting story, first romance I have ever read , I'll say it , I thought this book would be more centered on the mystery , but I hadn't taken into account who the writer was (turns out Nora Robert is a very known romance writer) .
All taken into account , this book turned out better than expected once I found out it was a romance book.
The mystery itself is not the focus of the book so if you want to read this book then be aware of that .
The first 100 pages are the best part of the book.
The first word that comes to mind now that I've finished this audio book is 'chilling'.
It's dark, especially when we are in the mind of the killer.
It's hard for me to believe there are really people out there who have these thoughts, who can actually justify and condone their behavior.
I enjoyed getting to know Naomi and Zander, and watching their relationship grow but, to be honest, I was mostly interested in the crime aspects of the story, and in them finding the horrible person committing the murders.What a story!
As I said, chilling and hard to take at times, but I wish I had listened sooner and can't wait to listen to more by Nora Roberts!
Blog Review: http://sweptawaybyromance.com/the-obs... 4 Suspenseful Stars! As I started this book I was instantly drawn to young Naomi. Naomi is a couple of days away from her 12th birthday when she discovers what a monster her father is. As the story continues we see Naomi, her mother, and young brother Mason learning to live with the fallout of her father’s depravity with the help of her beloved Uncle Seth and his partner Harry.Young Naomi is excited about her upcoming birthday and to see if s
Then, women start disappearing and it looks like her nightmares may be becoming a reality.I truly loved that Naomi and Xander didn’t get caught up in secrets and lies.
They’re both straight shooters regardless of the fact that Naomi keeps her background to herself until she feels it’s safe enough to share with Xander and her new friends.All in all, this was a great read, Nora Roberts did a fantastic job on the suspense element, but I had an inkling of the identity of the perpetrator.
4.5 serial killer stars :D “People don’t always know people close to them the way they think they do.”- Naomi* * * “No, you couldn’t know everyone, and even when you did, you didn’t.”- Xander* * * “I love you, Naomi. That’s the start, the finish, and everything in between.”- Xander
After reading it more or less in one sitting (all 450 pages of sheer awesomeness), I feel that it pretty much tells you everything you need to know about Nora’s latest release.
Nora Roberts IS the world’s greatest storyteller, proven by the fact that over the last 20 years or so, an average of 13 NR books were sold every minute.
It’s clear from the very beginning that Naomi isn’t an average child – the strength she shows as a mere 11-year-old promises a heroine like no other.
And you should know by now that Nora Roberts always delivers on her promises.
I was so hoping this would happen...  ...or at least this…  ...but, unfortunately, Tag was a nice dog… I must say that I loved this book because of the way it was written! It’s divided in several parts where the first is a huge shocker, the next ones a nicely developing romance and the last one a bang!While the first put me in killer mode, where I wanted to torture her father to death (a very slow one, though!), the next parts were beautiful! We see Naomi, now grown up, as she finally stops her
It’s divided in several parts where the first is a huge shocker, the next ones a nicely developing romance and the last one a bang!While the first put me in killer mode, where I wanted to torture her father to death (a very slow one, though!), the next parts were beautiful!
It’s not lust, but it takes him a while to get it, giving time to Naomi to understand her feelings.I didn’t mind the slow pace, the descriptions of the house, of the forest, of the sunrises and sunsets – I loved them!
I cannot even tell you how many Nora Roberts books I have read in my life I've been following her for so many years.
In fact, I kept waiting for something to happen and when it finally did, I was surprised that it was very different than what I was expecting.
She consistently gives amazing stories, with beautiful detail that just brings you right into the middle of it and doesn't shake you loose until the very end and this book, The Obsession, stayed with me for several days after I finished.
Along with her contractor, who shares the same vision, Naomi will begin the nightmare that is home repair, remodel and construction.Part of moving and living in a new place is getting to know the people around you.
One very intriguing resident is Xander Keaton, mechanic, garage band lead singer, and life long resident of Sunrise Cove, is on the radar.
Meanwhile, a sinister thread has begun to wind its way around Sunrise Cove bringing back the past and threatening to destroy the fragile new life Naomi has created.

A minha estreia com a autora não podia ter sido melhor. Adorei cada momento que o livro me proporcionou e cada uma das personagens. Desde o início que esta história nos agarra e não queremos que acabe.Opinião completa no blog: lostinmyownworldofbooks.wordpress.com...
Whenever I want a page turning, feel good read Nora Roberts is an author I go to with many novels to choose from. The Obsession has to be one of my favourites.
I thought the obsession by Nora Roberts was a great book. The obsession dealt with subjects like rape and murder which most people don't like those subjects matters in books don't read the book but I would say that the obsession definitely worth a read.
Pet peeves: Psycho's POV, sexism disguised as compliments, multiPOVWarning: I'm not being vulgar or anything bad, but this book made me angry and I may be itsy bitsy sarcastic.
Unfortunately, I read the last sentence from the first psycho POV, so any "mystery" left in the book was gone.
Did you notice, how Naomi is special, because she's not like every other woman, except she's like every other women in romance books?
You could make it more interesting by leaving some mystery in the book.Oh and I almost forgot(view spoiler)[ - I love how Xander figured out who Naomi was just from looking at his bookshelf.
For a romantic suspense book The Obsession is curiously lacking in both romance and suspense.
It is a first time homeowner's renovation diary masquerading as a romantic suspense novel.
Every single promising element of the story was drowned out by pages and pages of mundane renovation stuff.
The suspense plotline was an afterthought at best.
Let's just say one does not need to be an FBI agent to unravel the suspense plotline.
There were times I forgot I was reading a romantic suspense book, because the romance was dull and the suspense was windowdressing.
Review posted on Got Fiction?3.5Nora Roberts is one of those authors I like to read when I want to know what I'm going to get.
It only makes sense that it's related to her father, but when Naomi thinks running away is the best idea, Xander wants to convince her to stay.The main reason I rated this a 3.5 instead of a 5 is that the whole first section is devoted to setting up Naomi's life and character, and through it all, she's still very young.
Then when we meet her as she's older, it seems like the romance was very character-driven, so I was kind of surprised at the suspense part.
5 stars – Romantic SuspenseLoved this book! It grabbed me from the start and kept me totally engrossed in the story. It's definitely one of the better romantic suspense books I've read in awhile, one of NR's best, and one of my favorite reads of the year.

