https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58363.Paris_France
i've heard people struggle with book, then they give up and go do something to make themselves feel better.i struggle with things, then i give up and go read this book to make myself feel better.same thing with the teacup ride at storyland, when i was little. it makes you a bit disoriented, but as soon as you stop fighting it, it's good fun. i do not feel the same way about Three Women, by the way.try The World Is Round, instead.
No, Stein still does and says plenty of things in her 1940 essay-memoir Paris France that I normally find off-putting or flat-out disagree with: her habit, for example, of making sweeping statements about what she considers to be the defining characteristics of a group of people, based sometimes on a single anecdote.
One of my favorite sections, and one that would earn the book a five-star rating all on its own were I to give star ratings, is one in which Stein critiques the figure of speech "Familiarity breeds contempt." She argues, on the contrary, that "the more familiar it is the more rare and beautiful it is":I remember once hearing a conversation on the street in Paris and it ended up, and so there it was there was nothing for them to do, they had to leave the quarter.
Memoir, surprisingly optimistic on the eve of war. Some really delightful passages; good for Stein novice. Better in a way than A Moveable Feast by Hemingway, who stole her style. Nice, very nice, intro by Adam Gopnik.
Em breve, vídeo para ele (nem acredito!)
some nice sentences and juxtapositions but overall, tedious.i can't imagine enjoying this unless you care about stein as a figure, leading you to want to hear her privileged rambling.
(Paris France was written just before my most beloved Gertrude Stein book, Wars I Have Seen, a book I grew up with (it was my father's); and the same copy just perished in my recent flood.) The best part of Paris France is the story of Helen Button (she is a young French girl whose name is really Hélène Bouton, but Gertrude calls her by her Anglicized name):Helen Button started out with her dog William.
There had been something in the bottle but what, it looked dark green or may be blue or black, and the bottle was standing up in the middle of the road not lying on its side the way a bottle on the road usually is.William the dog and Helen the little girl went on.
This she accomplishes by writing with a disregard for convention so childishly irreverent that it is nigh impossible to take seriously any idea she propounds.
While the modernists may well have been right about the necessity of a new writing for a new era, one cannot deny the fact that literary convention works in communicating ideas.
Now, I am frustrated in general with the modernist incentive to cut the whole rose blossom for the sake of one withered petal.
I am even more frustrated with the product of that incentive through Stein.
When reading her work, Stein's attempt to subvert literary convention is indistinguishable from a bungler's ignorance of it.
What a lovely book! The prose, poetry floats at times like a leaf in an autumn breeze! G. Stein at a point is a bit disdainful of impressionist painters seeking to capture an object; she implies artists in the 1930's conveying an idea or thought on canvas more superior. (Murakami's Commendatore perhaps?)
Fitzgerald, e não só.O livro Paris França, agora editado pela Relógio d’Água, traz-nos uma Stein já mais velha, às portas da Segunda Guerra Mundial, tendo sido publicado em 1940, quando a autora contava já 66 anos e cerca de 40 anos de vida em França, bastantes mais do que aqueles durante os quais vivera na América.
Aborda de tudo um pouco, desde cozinha, à relação entre os humanos e os animais, à relação dos franceses com a figura de Napoleão, ao porquê de França e Paris, em particular, terem sido o destino de escolha desta geração de expatriados que quis levar a arte mais além.O que não falta são, também, ideias interessantíssimas, provavelmente também só possíveis mediante as generalizações atrás referidas.
As a novella, the writing in "Paris France" is more acceptable, if you consider that you have an unreliable narrator who is a little dim.Gertrude Stein lived in France through both World Wars, but her treatment of them in this book seems to show her desire to distance herself from the wars as much as possible.
Perhaps if you're in the middle of a war, it's natural to lie low and hope you live through it.I confess that "Paris France" has caused me to think a lot, even if my first thoughts were about how little I liked it.
This is the 2nd time I've picked up a book by Stein and I didn't make it through the first one a decade ago...but thought maybe I was in a better head space to get back to her now.
The language is simple, but the style is particular: straightforward phrases and ideas, but strung together in incomplete sentences, unpunctuated, like train of thought or a naive poetry, which I initially found jarring and clunky.
At this point, I also felt like the book is better appreciated in a larger context.
Stein is most well known as the host of a salon in Paris for writers and artists including Hemingway, Fitzgerald, and Picasso.
I was curious to know in her voice what she felt about Paris.
And in this book she gives a clear and concise description of life in Paris and stories of Parisians from the point of view of an American.
The book is about the formation of the 20th century and Paris being the place where the then new century was coming into manifestation.
Paris had tradition, it had fashion, and it had civilization.
The relays conversations and impressions from her various friends, including Picasso, and gives a fairly good account of France at this time and how it was changing.Reading Stein is an experience in the stretching of language.
Some of her perceptions sound profound but are not, only the language and syntax they are presented in make them seem so.
I recommend Stein as an experience for the reader, but at every line you are pulled back to self-awareness of what you are reading.
Well, this is an interesting book, but I was not convinced.
While there are some interesting passages, I struggled to find key messages of the book or the direction where it was going.
I find her social or political interpretation of France/Paris at the time full of shortcomings, but what really bothered me was the way she romanticised the period to the point of naivety (maybe due to the privileges she had).
Maybe the fault is on myself for having higher expectations from this known character which was Stein.
I expected her to be a sharp critic of the society she was living in, and that was far from what I had.
Maybe that's what Stein thought she was giving me, but all I got out of it was stream of consciousness about the French and France, with little or no standard punctuation.
So now I know that the French are logical, latin, civilized and fashionable.
29-30: "It is because of this [occasional crises] that the American married to a frenchwoman remarked my American sister rises wonderfully to a crisis but my french wife sees to it that a crisis does not arise."I think I'd rather read about Gertrude Stein than read Gertrude Stein.
I was a real brat about Gertrude Stein's writing when I was in college. I didn't like her sentences or the notion that it should take as long to read The Making of Americans as it took to cross the country by the covered wagon in question. What a jerk I was. I love Stein's sentences here. Like her friend Pablo, she has access to her child's voice. Her understanding of the French -- I assume, only 40 pages in------will coalesce as it did in real time, peaceably and excitedly.
Stein's anti war memoir, which never mentions violence and barely mentions war, poignant entreaty on the value of ordinary, daily life. Supposedly this was Stein's favorite book. While this text may be responsible for the romanticization of the French people, it's lovely and worth a read.
I liked this book. I liked it a lot in fact. My problem lays with Gertrude Stein's insistence that she write like a 5th grader who just wrote his first term paper. Some of her language is polished and lovely and some of her language is like reading tea leaves.
This story had a beginning, middle and an end. That is about all I understood about it. It was like reading the ramblings of a crazy person who really hated commas and periods
Шампанското на ХХ век.Сборникът „За Париж“ пресъздава Париж през спомените на автори, които градът открива или реабилитира.
Гертруд Стейн„[…] затова Париж и Франция станаха първооснова за литературата и изкуството през двайсетото столетие.
Колкото и да е странно, това не ги тласкаше сами да създават изкуството и литературата на двайсетото столетие, но неизбежно формираше нужната среда.“„[…] дори в гаража предпочитат академика и писалката пред милионера и политика.
А вярата в чувството за реалност, това е двайсетото столетие.
Но всички те идват тук, за да бъдат благословени от Париж.
"I think centuries are like men, they begin as children begin simple and hopeful then they go through that period that Doctor Osler used to call the senseless age, boys of eleven to seventeen, and then they go through their period of becoming civilised and then the century more or less settles down, becomes as the French say rangé that is civilised and the work is over."So, there's that attitude pervasive throughout the book, which the view from our point in history makes feel really almost ignorant and frustrating.
I think she's trying to execute a cross between writing in simple sentences (the style Hemingway popularized and was known for but Stein actually did start with books like Paris France) and trying to write in a stream-of-consciousness style and it doesn't work for me.
Този, който съзерцава в дълбочина Париж, получава световъртеж. Няма по-фантастично нещо. Няма по-трагично нещо. Няма по-сюблимно нещо.  - Виктор ЮгоПоглед над колоритния, трагичен и магнетичен Париж през призмата на популярни автори.Ако сте били или скоро ще посещавате Париж или ако ви е допаднал „Полунощ в Париж“ сборникът може да е подходящо допълнение. Има само две места в света, където можем да живеем щастливо: у дома и в Париж.  - Урнест ХемингуейЛюбими цитати от сборника:   Париж е една о
Със завръщането си през октомври, ще бъдете заобиколена от толкова пълнокръвен, активен живот, че дори не бихте усетили кога вали дъжд, сняг или грее слънце.Прекрасно е да си на моста над Сена в Париж и да гледаш през завесата от меко стелещия се сняг сивата грамада на Лувъра, реката, пресечена от множество мостове и обрамчена от сивите къщи на стария Париж, а в далечината, някъде в здрача, дреме Нотър Дам.
Не знам защо, но каквото и да е времето, Париж никога не е тъжен и мрачното сиво зимно небе има същата прелест, както мекият въздух през пролетта.Париж се е разраснал през вековете, като живо същество, протягайки във всички посоки своите крайници и пипала.
I hadn't picked up Gertrude Stein before, and so it came as a surprise to me that she is in fact the creator of the writing style that is often attributed to Hemingway.
You go to a concert in France, and no one in the audience will even have a phone out of their pocket, let alone pointed at the musicians.
Stein writes about the coming war with detachment (what happens in wartime vs.
In all, I loved reading this while I was in Paris and had context for her observations, especially as an American writer.
We used to think not we but everybody used to think that it was kings who were ambitious who were greedy and who brought misery to the people who had no way to resist them.
But now well democracy has shown us that what is evil are the grosses tetes, the big heads, all big heads are greedy for money and power, they are ambitious that is the reason they are big heads and so they are at the head of the government and the result is misery for the people.
When I picked this book up I expected it to be more similar to Ernest Hemingway's "A Moveable Feast," but ultimately Stein focused more on an American's musings on French people, traditions, and philosophies in the 20th century.
For the most part, however, I really enjoyed hearing Stein's perspectives on the French people and Paris!Favorite quote that I definitely want to remember : "Revolutions come and revolutions go, fashions come and fashions go, logic and civilization remain and with it the family and the soil of France."
I picked up this book because I love "Midnight in Paris" and loved the idea of a memoir about France written by a famous ex-pat.
There is neither a plot nor characters, and Stein's writing style will throw you off initially before you realize it's easier to read as if it were spoken.
However, her characterization of France and the French immediately before WW2 is so refreshingly optimistic.
It is not like many historical works that conclude that everyone knew there was another war coming; this is a France that has healed from the first war and values its Frenchness.
Overall, a good casual read if you're a big Francophile.
It's Gertrude, so it runs ramshod over punctuation and meanders and non-sequiters, but I bought it at Shakespeare and Company in Paris and read a good chunk of it there, so it worked. Reading it in the States, however, it comes off as silly. Like with cheese and white asparagus, this book is best consumed in France.
Good read... I like Stein, she's kind of yada yada yada in that plain language sort of way and then out of no where drops a bomb on you. Its like every 5 or 10 pages she nail something down... beautiful.
Her long run-on sentences and lack of punctuation is really difficult to read. Her thoughts are scattered. I often found myself asking “what did she just say”. She is quite controversial in her WWII beliefs. Overall, I’m glad I took the time to read it.
Didn't really like the writing style of any of the authors. Glad it was only a hundred and something pages so I flew through it.
