https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12605157-the-100-startup
Building a business structured around your desired lifestyle is possible.Although it may seem like a pipe dream to most people working in corporate jobs, Chris shows this is possible.
It’s more powerful to talk about the emotional benefits your business will provide to its customers, not just the features of your product or service."Most people want more of some things (love, money, attention) and less of other things (stress, anxiety, debt).
Chris provides several comprehensive checklists and planning tools to help build your business.
However, I don't actually think reading it got me any closer to doing it.The examples shared were lovely, but they're just quick snippets of what the person's business is.
I also wish there weren't so many examples in the book of people who used an artistic skill, because that's not accessible to those of us who aren't crafty or artsy.
I felt like we were playing right into what he wanted, to make a business so he could travel around the world.
I think he succeeded - lots of people are buying his book and talking about it.
I am a big fan and follower of Chris Guillebeau, so my expectations for this book were a bit...
One of the most honest and real moments in the book was when Chris shared that he spent $10,000 on advertising for a previous guide - finally, some real information!
He shares a story about a small literary agent who has been successful on his own, and with a little digging, you realize that it's Chris' agent.
Instead, it was surface-level information of success stories - none of the behind the scenes blood, sweat and tears.
In the genre of "books that are actually long blog posts", this book really is the latest in "lean startup" type works, stripped back as far as it could go. Will anyone else in the lifestyle design/lean startup area be able to rip more meat from the bones of these ideas, leaving just a ten bullet point list?Also, the case studies were not very useful -- very lightweight anecdotes.It's not completely without value, but I don't personally know anyone I could recommend it for.
Needs more "how" to be really useful, and Guillebeau shortchanged the "how" he did write, though there were a couple of good resources found on his website...Another thing irritated me: quotes obviously taken from some unsourced site like brainyquotes.com.
Any discerning reader would immediately see that Karl Marx or Anais Nin could not have said the quotes he attributed to them (Nin did not use the word "hustle" in any of her writings).
That's just lazy on the part of Guillebeau, and sends me the message that he doesn't think his readers will call him on something like that.
I think it' a good read. The $100 Startup shows up what's possible - but Guillebeau doens't really go further than that. The book can motivate you, but if you really want to know how to approach launching a startup, "Lean Startup" by Eric Ries (for the theory) and "Running Lean" by Ash Maurya (for applying the principle) are obligatory.It didn't leave a lasting impression, but it's a good read nonetheless so i go with four stars.
These barriers (not enough money, knowledge, experience, demand, etc.)make it easy for us to not go into business.
Not going into business allows us not to fail.
The book encourages a quick, no-holds barred start-up, because the leap is what is often the most difficult.
Following the leap, there are other helpful hints in this manuscript that relate to pricing and sales.
And as mentioned before, the section on pricing is very interesting and perhaps not as intuitive as might be expected.
"The basics of starting a business are very simple;you don't need an MBA (keep the $60,000 tuition), venture capital or even a detailed plan.
You just need a product or service, a group of people willing to pay for it, and a way to get paid.
Product or service: what you sell2.
People willing to pay for it: your customers3.
A way to get paid: how you'll exchange a product or service for money"Seriously?
First off it's bad enough that you thought any one who was thinking about starting a business needed to have that explained.
His story opens the book.The $100 Startup is a very interesting and eye-opening read: many of the people featured just got going with something rather than giving it a great deal of advanced study.
The book would have benefited by going deeper into each story -- I wanted more about exactly HOW some of them got started, what obstacles they met along the way, and how they overcome those obstacles.
In particular, I was intrigued by the story of Naomi Dunford, who apparently launched an online empire from nothing (Ittybiz) by offering to brainstorm with people for $250 a pop.
It's the kind of business book you want to read and learn from as much as you can, but at the same time take your time to apply all you have learnt. I definitely recommend it to everyone who wants to start up their business!
This is how I fel about The $100 Startup - I wish I had read it - or rather, I wish Chris had written it - about 5 years ago when I was still stumbling around, lost and confused and disillusioned with Corporate America, and beyond discouraged about doing anything I could love.
I felt fortunate to know about 70% of the wonderful individuals in the case studies, and having been around the blogosphere for a while now, I echo Chris Guillebeau's heart-filled approach to starting a business and doing something you can love.
Chris lives his words.
“Catch a man a fish, and you can sell it to him. Teach a man to fish and you ruin a wonderful business opportunity” - Karl Marx.Turn your knowledge into something valuable (products or services...) and sell it.
one of the sections is called "Reality Check Checklist." this part of the book I loved - it reassured me, i wasn't going off the deep end, the idea that putting passion and purpose at the center of your life's pursuits is truly the best way to live.
but otherwise i think everyone has to learn their own lessons in life (and business.) lastly, the book ends by focusing back on you.
When I first picked this book up, I thought it would be about how to start a small business on little or no money.
That was not the case, and in fact, I wasn't sure I would even finish the entire book.
(You know who I'm talking about, the nay-sayers).Throughout the book, the author interviews various entrepreneurs in different sectors of businesses.
very inspiring, well structured, simply great book.
So am I!When I first learned of Chris Guillebreau’s book The $100 Startup… My immediate thoughts were… “This is too good to be true.” and “What is the hook?” Once I got the book in my hands, I realized, Chris is delivering an amazing value to anyone either thinking about starting a business, struggling for direction and steps to launch and even those already in business that need to make some shifts to gain some momentum!
The plans are easy to find because they are in gray boxes – so a reader can read through the book and then come back and easily find the task lists.What sold me on the credibility of the content was that this is not a “How I Did It” book by Chris Guillebeau.
كتاب يتحدث حول الطّريقة التي يُمكن أن تُطلق فيها مشروعك الخاص بأقل التكاليف لتحقق الحرية (المقصود با
I like the book since I mingle and work with lots of entrepreneurs.
I think it is a must read for every entrepreneur.
How capital really is a small part (if at all) of starting and making a successful company.5.
How entrepreneurship is about something you love and really care about.It is really a collection of several small stories with some common threads.
Stories of entrepreneurship are always fascinating and quite inspiring.
It was a fun book to read and if you are an entrepreneur or someone who hangs around a lot of entrepreneurs, you may really enjoy this book.
I wrote a huge review but then Goodreads ate it. Wanna start a business? Get this book. Don't want to start a business? Get this book. The only reason I didn't give the book 5 stars was because by the end I was feeling guilty for not having started a business by now. Read this immediately.
"The $100 Startup: Reinvent The Way You Make A Living, Do What You Love, And Create A New Future" by Chris Guillebeau is an interesting and informative book for those who are or want to be entrepreneurs.
It is not about a specific business that you can start for $100, but rather a book about a new model of doing business that the author calls a microbusiness revolution, or a way of earning a good living while crafting a life of independence and purpose.The two themes in the book are freedom and value.
Imagining on the first day of starting up that your venture is gonna be facebook 2 then you are talking like my just born kid is going to be the next Usian Bolt.For a change, I was really pleased to see Chris provide stories of the startup heroes who are everyday normal people like you and me.
Compared to other reading material I was happy to see that non-Harvard/Staford/Wharton/IIT/IIM people can also do it and make more then good money - that for me was the biggest driver to keep reading this book.Happy Reading..
Phew, finished this book finally after so much time.
Just because I didn't concentrate to read it.I followed Chris Guillebeau's blog a long time ago.
And many other inspirational notes and techniques which may be useful for the startup project that I'm getting involved in.
I reckon Chris put a lot of hard work, a lot of research and effort in this book.
To me this is absolutely one of the must - read books in startup.
And I'm just glad that I spent time to finish it eventually.
Chris was an awesome, fun, unique, honest, objective, helpful, hope giver, thought provoking person(author).i loved his book.i just loved it. i'll read all of chris's work(God willing).:)KEY POINT:Do not think of what can you buy with your money,if you want something think of how you can get it.You can make a real life product using small money.
كتاب ماهم لكل المتخوفين من بدء رحلة الإستقلال المالي والإستفادة من شغفهم ومهاراتهم لتكون مصدر دخل من خلال إنشاء مشاريع صغيرة بأقل تكلفة ممكنة.
Regardless of it having a few flaws, I absolutely loved this book.
I think it focuses too much on the individual stories, rather than just going to the general conclusion.
But still, at times, I felt like I didn't care much about those "Heroes of $100 Start-up" that I would read their semi-biography.But the quality of this book that made me love it is the summarization it provided after every chapter.
It focused on the core message of the book, devoid of the stories.
The success of a business is directly related to how good you make them feel about themselves.""Could a side-project for this business also morph into a business?""Freedom is very close to value provided.""Definition of value: Something desirable and of worth created thru exchange or effort.""Help people.
'Our training programs make customers look like rockstars to their friends and colleagues.' ”"Sell what people buy already.""Give more: love, money, acceptance, free time.
This erases customer fears.""Make people feel good about the action of paying money.
Great book for people who want to be their own boss and make enough money to live their ideal lifestyle. I definitely plan to take these lessons to heart, but first I have to get the physical copy. I listened to it on audible and feel like I need this book and its case studies as physical references.
Wat een inspirerend boek. Eindelijk een boek dat best diep ingaat op hoe succesvolle ZZP'ers het voor elkaar hebben gekregen in plaats van alleen te vertellen hoe jij dit zóu kunnen doen. Veel praktische tips, maar ook goed doordachte strategieën op basis van grootschalig onderzoek. Ik voel meer zekerheid en motivatie om voor mezelf te beginnen nu ik dit boek gelezen heb. Heel vet!
Business advice for the non-business minded. Straightforward, smart, not at all intimidating.
Repetitive but important.
