https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10428708-the-affair
LEE Child Sells OutI love Jack Reacher so much and I feel like Lee Child has just sold him out for money.
It is so offensive that Child sold the screen rights to Tom Cruise so he could play Reacher.
And now it seems like Child is writing the book to support Cruise's portrayal.
Also, I think the sex tied to the trains is written for a movie in mind.
It seems like more of a script than the usual Reacher book.
I don't think his dismissal from the service was very realistic.
I took two long strides, the second of them powering off the edge of the curbstone, two hundred and fifty pounds of moving mass, and I hit the third guy from the left with a straight right that would have taken his teeth out if he’d had any to start with.
I could tell by the impact he was flinching away and I had caught him on the ear, so I made an instantaneous mental note he might need more attention later, and then I jerked forward again and changed the angle of attack by kicking the fourth guy full-on in the groin, a satisfying bone-and-flesh crunch that simultaneously folded him in half and lifted him off his feet.Three seconds, three down, one taking an eight count.Nobody ran.
Let me say first that I will always choose to listen to a Jack Reacher novel instead of reading it simply because I am so impressed with the talent of Dick Hill in bringing the series to life.The Reacher series is a favorite of mine, and I'm not sure exactly why, since I am not a fan of vigilante justice.
Unlike many characters of this type, Child offers us the opportunity to see inside Reacher, to see his insecurities and his code of right and wrong.
We are also offered the chance to learn about Reacher's background, and that is especially relevant to this book, set at a time much earlier in his life than the other novels.
I think he is a good choice to narrate for the Jack Reacher books.
As it does to Reacher, injustice sits heavy on my stomach, so even though Reacher can be highly ruthless, in a way it's a rewarding thing to know that there is an avenging angel out there at least in the fictional world to fight for those who have been disenfranchised and denied of their rights and their voices.
Neither is a good bet for a long-term relationship, but I still wished that things might work out in that direction (view spoiler)[(even knowing this is a prequel so that wasn't in the cards) (hide spoiler)].The Affair was a good book, but I felt an emptiness when it ended.
The Army's apparent fear is that a military man will be exposed as the killer, triggering a major scandal at a time when the Army can least afford it.Reacher makes his way to the little town, but his cover is blown immediately by the local sheriff, a very tough, smart, sexy ex-Marine named Elizabeth Deveraux.
The real question is whether he can do so in a way that serves his mission and his determination to protect the Army without destroying himself in the process.This is really an excellent addition to the series, much more nuanced than some of the other entries with a plot that builds to a great climax.
All of them are set after Reacher left the army in March 1997 except for Book 8 (The Enemy) and this one.
Reacher learns other women have been murdered in the same manner and some civilians have been shot near the army base.REVIEWER’S OPINION:My favorite Reacher stories are the thrillers where the reader is in the bad guy’s head.
I like seeing the bad guy’s motivations, plans and action to get Reacher.
This is my comic book hero escape.One of the fun things I like about Reacher is how he confronts people and does not avoid conflict, which is so opposite of me.
3.5 stars  This 16th book in the series goes back to 1997, when Jack Reacher was an army MP (military police).
A young woman named Janice Chapman has been raped and viciously murdered in the town of Carter Crossing, Mississippi - just outside Fort Kelham Army Base.
At the same time Jack Reacher is sent to Carter Crossing, posing as a civilian.
There's plenty of action going on in the story: two more people are shot to death; Jack has violent altercations with some Carter Crossing rednecks; there's some romance; Jack eats many cheeseburgers and a lot of pie; Jack has altercations with soldiers sent to detain him; Jack has altercations with self-styled militias; and much more.
I love Jack Reacher and I love all of Lee Child's Books but is this the beginning of the end?
Yes, Reacher was Reacher in this book but it all felt very forced.
I don't want to give anything away and the mystery part was still so good I didn't want to stop reading but the way Child gets there is too...I can't even think of the right word but things just happen that don't work for me.
Anyway, yes , I was disappointed, but in the end, (I read this next part on someone else's review) even a bad Reacher book is good.
After reading 61 Hours, I thought the Jack Reacher series had sagged a bit.
Jack goes back in time (1997) to his last days as an Army MP major.
I won't rehash the plot.
Jack is a hard ass when he needs to be, and he does at several points here.
He's a good detective who puts it together, and the plot twists are unexpected.
At any rate, it's good to learn some of Jack's back story and get to know him a little better.
Entertaining tale of which I read the final 200 pages straight through.
Here we are involved in a series of murders in a small town near a military base.
Jack (I mean "Reacher") is called in (as this is an "I'm still an MP story) to find out if the killings (of young women) were committed by a soldier or a civilian.Of course this is Jack Reacher so THIS small town is home the 4 most beautiful, gorgeous, incomparable looking women in (possibly) the entire world.
3 of these unbelievably beautiful women are the victims (though others die later in the book, these not being lovely women) the 4th is (of course) the sheriff.
I know some readers don’t like reading about Reacher in the past but I love it and as he’s now approaching 60 I hope we get to see more of his time in the army.
The story here helps us to understand the future Reacher more, and make sense of all the decisions that he has made in the previous books that we have read.
I finished this book and immediately wanted to reread The Killing Floor because it left me full of excitement (though perhaps not for Reacher) at the adventures and dangers he was going to face as he walked away from the army.
PROTAGONIST: Jack ReacherSERIES: #16SETTING: MississippiRATING: 4.5THE AFFAIR is the sixteenth book in the extremely successful Jack Reacher series.
Back in 2004, Lee Child wrote a prequel (THE ENEMY) which was set during the time that Reacher was still in the military.
Even Deveraux falls under suspicion.One thing that I thought that Child did extremely well was to set up the framework of the post-military Jack Reacher persona.
Child has also sketched out the beginnings of the situation which is the main plot point for the first Reacher book, THE KILLING FLOOR.
The Affair (Jack Reacher, #16), Lee Child
Being the guy who has to read the book first, I headed out to the local library and picked up the first novel, Killing Floor, assuming that the movie series would start with the first novel in the series.That's what I get for assuming.
This works the first time or two it happens, but I found myself rolling my eyes a bit as it kept occurring through the entire run of the novel.And so it was that after reading the first Reacher, I jumped forward to the ninth novel, One Shot so I could do the inevitable comparing the book to the movie when I see it.
Adding to the confusion are cover-ups which lead to other killings.Novels about serial killers often rely on salacious examinations of the abnormal psychology of the perpetrator.
We see the end results of what the murderer has done, but unlike most Reacher novels, we never stand in the presence of the evil in such a way that when Reacher comes down on the perps in typical Biblical fashion, we feel that it's warranted.
For Reacher's over-the-top brand of violence to work, you need to feel that the bad guy is a monster that needs killing.
Perfect!Another amazing Reacher story.We go back in time to 1997 - to the beginning of the end of Reacher's military career.He has to unofficially find a killer in a little Military Base Town in Mississippi and while doing that he's having an adorable affair with the Police Chief! All very exciting and mysterious and typical Reacher-ish!I LOVED IT!
Cel mai bun roman al autorului, dupa parerea mea.
Jack Reacher este trimis in Carter Crossing sa ancheteze moartea unei fete violate si omorate.
Seriful locului, fermecatoarea si isteata Elizabeth Deveraux nu este deloc fericita de amestecul lui in treburile politiei locale.
Romanul este plin de descrieri privind armata, Pentagonul, tipurile de arme etc.
Ofera si o serie de detalii uimitoare privind modul in care trebuie sa se desfasoare o ancheta, stabilirea orei decesului, examinarea cadavrului etc.
Scenele de dragoste mi s-au parut stangace in mare parte pentru ca intre cei doi nu exista chimie.
" Jack Reacher.
While the story was good and well told, I found the abundance of "I said nothing" very irritating. Perhaps I would not have noticed it as much had I read the book in print rather than audio, but it seemed when Child was not saying "I said nothing" he substituted. "He said nothing" or "She said nothing." A lot of unneeded extra words.
It used to be fun to think about who might play Jack and how they would bring his overpowering physicality to film.
In The Affair, Jack feels disrespected when the obligatory local rednecks, seeking revenge, only bring six guys to deal with him.
Cruise can probably handle that part.The Affair is a pretty good Jack Reacher.
As Jack ages and becomes less able to smash giants and groups of six or more, Mr. Child may want to take him back in time, let him be younger and even stronger and more attractive.
As a reader I don't want to watch an aging Jack Reacher lose his edge.
(This one got me through the tail end of a trip to Geneva, which is in no way relevant to the book!) They don't require a tremendous amount of concentration, the chapters tend to be short, and characters (for the most part) remain true to form.
Also, unlike some series, the books aren't all chronological, and this one involved a trip into the time travel/way back machine, which was OK, particularly because it helped put some characters and context in place.
(There are plenty of authors' series that I've read in chronological, rather than publication, order, but ...
Having some of the back story, the events that have been hinted at that lead to Reacher sticking his thumb out and setting off wandering around America But there things bugged the hell out of me1.
On the back of The Affair is the quote "Jack is Clint Eastwood, Mel Gibson and Bruce Willis all into one, a superman for our time." and it's true, which is a pity, because a few books ago he was "Reacher" and we didn't need to compare him to anyone else because he was a unique hero that others would get compared to.
I've been a Jack Reacher fan for years and usually enjoy Child's novels, always finding some basic humanity in the themes of the lone MP against great odds and a corrupt system.While this novel is well-crafted and has a complex plot narrated in Child's terse style, I did not care for Jack Reacher in this story.
The voice he uses in reading the female roles make them all sound like hillbilly bimbos.Too interesting a plot to just stop listening to the story, too irritating on many levels to be enjoyable.
In a story set in 1997, Jack Reacher goes undercover for the army, traveling to Carter Crossing, Mississippi to determine if a woman’s brutal murder could have come at the hands of a soldier stationed at nearby Kellum army base.
Sixteenth in the Reacher series, this narrative provides the backstory for Jack’s separation from the army.
This intriguing glimpse into Jack Reacher’s past is certain to please fans of the series; new readers will find much to appreciate in Reacher’s exploits.
As with all Reacher tales, suspense builds as the pages turn and readers are likely to find it difficult to set the book aside before reaching the final page.Highly recommended.
When you’re in Reacher’s head, even when the story is not at one of its several extremely tense or riveting moments, it’s still fun because it’s fun to hear Reacher tell stories about his life.
You can tell that Child is really hearing Reacher’s voice and isn’t forcing it.The plot...as per usual, the less said the better but this one was a doozy.
This led to some teeth-grindingly tense passages, which is one thing Child is definitely good at.This one was also fun due to the fact that it’s kind of the Reacher origin story.
I admire the fact that Lee Child is comfortable writing books set in different parts of Reacher's life.
Truth be told, if someone, years ago, had told me that I was going to pick up a series about a wandering ex-serviceman who gets into the shit with various crime elements, and that I would stick with it for sixteen books, each weighing in at well over 450 pages--well, I would have been hard-pressed to believe that person.
Naturally, trouble is always waiting at the top of the road.I enjoyed this book more than I have previous installments.
This is the third Reacher book I've read, and I think it will be my last.
The book has a limp plot that's lazily worked out, and it comes seriously off the rails near the end; but the worst thing about it is not that it's derivative - something you would expect in a series - but that it's a virtual carbon copy of earlier Reacher books (the main element that's new is the title).
If I do decide to read another Reacher book, I'll probably reread an earlier one that I've been through before.
I really enjoy the Jack Reacher books - they are good as a stand alone story, but also a great series. This one was particularly interesting as it goes back in time, to when Reacher is still in the army. Throughout the series, there are hints that something big went down, and Reacher left in some sort of scandal - and this is the story about it.4.5 stars. Now I want to read the first book in the series, which is apparently set 6 months after this one finishes!
I read this earlier and forgot to post it. It was better than others and I think I like Reacher more in the Army than as a civilian. I'm giving four stars...more 3 1/2...because the others I read were clearly three stars. Two stars for a couple. Needless to say I'm not a Reacher fan but many of my friends are and they still like me, I think. I hope.
I'm a big fan of the Jack Reacher series. This is a reread for me and I loved every minute of it!
And I can imagine that when Child started his Jack Reacher series, he never intended to tell how Reacher got to the point that he was wondering the country, solving mysteries and being the white knight, even if he got his hands dirty at the time.But this was too good a story and it could only be told the way Child told it.
Two majors, one Jack Reacher, are sent to try to figure out what happened and did the clues lead to the military.
Either way, read the books and fall in love with Reacher as you are supposed to see him in your mind.
