https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23492741-the-marriage-of-opposites
For some reason...I thought "The Marriage of Opposites", was going to be a much more straight forward simple story, one that was even familiar to me.
Sweet historical love story.
I absolutely love Alice Hoffman, more and more.
I sure wish I could meet her!
Rachel is a dominant character in the story, and even when she was being unreasonable, being mean, critical to her son (the famous painter), often like her mother was to her .....I could still feel, and see, that she loved her son deeply.
It takes place in St. Thomas in the late 1800's and is split into 3 stories: Rachel, Jacobo and Lyddie.
I adored Rachel’s story - her 1st marriage, arranged to a man significantly older, determined her life and what it spanned to be.
Jacobo and Lyddie’s story, although interesting, is where my interest started to wain.
Rachel’s story was fascinating and I grew attached to the character.
Then the story shifted and she was no longer the protagonist.
I felt disconnected and a little frustrated as the story left me demanding to know more of Rachel’s feelings and experiences.
Reading The Marriage of Opposites really made me think.....The Rules of Magic is my favorite Alice Hoffman book, but have I found a new favorite?
One of the things I love about Hoffman's books is that each one is so different.
But the stories she weaves are so unique and varied but utterly captivating.The Marriage of Opposites is the story of Rachel Pissarro, growing up on the island of St. Thomas in the early 1800's.
The story moves back and forth between St. Thomas and Paris, France where Rachel has longed to visit.
She did just this but never truly abandoned her dreams completely.Mixed within this historical novel was also a beautiful love story - one that didn’t detract from the novel’s sophistication but instead added to it.
The tragedy was that Camille was perhaps much like his mother in her youth, and yet as is often the case in parent-child relationships, there is the sting of disapproval for one trying to live outside the conventions of society.
"We’re likely to see our children as we wish to, not as they are." Like his mother before him, Camille felt constricted in the closed community of the island.
This book is full of emotions, colors, mother-child relationships, love, meaningful friendships, grief, and artistry.
While the later part of the book focuses on her artist son , the story belongs to the independent and headstrong Rachel but we also see in Camille the same traits .In addition to the skillful way that Hoffman develops the character of Rachel , she has also drawn a whole cast of characters from Rachel's mother and father to the boy that her family adopts to her best friend Jestine whose mother is a servant in their home to Rachel's husbands .
WARNING MY REVIEW CONTAINS PLENTY OF SPOILERS!The Marriage of Oppositesop·po·site ˈäpəzət/noun plural noun: oppositesa person or thing that is totally different from or the reverse of someone or something else. "My father had told me that no matter how comfortable we might feel, we must live like fish, unattached to any land. Wherever there was water, we would survive. Some fish could stay in the mud for months, even years, and when at last there was a high flooding tide, they would swim away, a
The very natural but rudimentary beauty of the New World is juxtaposed against the more polished, sophisticated culture of the Old. This is the first one of many "opposite" narratives that are part of the stories told in this vivid, enchanted novel.Most of the relationships are depicted within a frame of contrasts: people that come from different cultures, religions, races and social statuses: Free man & slaves, mothers & sons, men & women, husband and wives.Even since the times of colonization, The Caribbean islands have represented the blending of two major cultures, Africa & Europe.
As such, Rachel and Jestine grew up as sisters through their ups and downs and learned every inch of their vibrant island home, and swore to each other that one day they would live in the fairytale city of Paris.When it came time to marry, Rachel married a widower Isaac Petit in order to expand on the family business; however, it was not a match of love as Isaac favored his deceased wife Esther.
After years, the scandal blows over, and the two go on to have four more children, including Abraham Jacobo Camille Pizarro, the father of French impressionistic art.Hoffman vibrantly describes both St Thomas island life as well as Paris so that the reader feels as though they are there.
One of A.Hoffman's best writings..great to see her going back in time telling us all about what was happening back then: like a spiteful,mean and nasty mother... while her educated daughter was force to get married to an older man who already had another wife(polygamy)...all this was taking place in the 1800s and is still happening today..it's an incredible story that was well written because of the pattern of today's world/society..
Hoffman and her new passion for writing about historical characters takes on the mother and her son, Camille, many thought to be the father of impressionism.
Her ability to bring to life characters, time and place, as well as her descriptive power to bring the colors and sounds of St. Thomas to the forefront.
Here they would form their own society, a society that would for some portion of her life, condemn Rachel and her growing family as well as her new husband.Loved the character of Rachel, she was amazing .
Having read Hoffman for years I love her new foray into historical happenings, but I miss her stories of whimsy.
Hoffman imagines the wonders and challenges of Rachel Pomie’s childhood in a loving family of Jewish shopkeepers, well connected to the rich tropical environment and to a community formed of many cultures.
These events are largely a backdrop to the main story of this novel, her relationship with the 22-year old nephew of her dead husband sent from Paris by the family to direct the business, Frederic Pissarro (spelled from the Portuguese as “Pizzarro”).
No one knows where artistic genius comes from, but the portrait of Camille’s early life makes a great attempt to account for the roots and influences on his visionary talents, appreciation of colors and natural forms, and respect for common people and diverse cultures.
The writing in Alice Hoffman’s Marriage of Opposites is extraordinary and engaging!
Set on St. Thomas in the early 19th century, our main character, Rachel, refuses to live by the rules.
At first, I wanted to stay with Rachel’s narrative, but I was soon immersed in the perspective of several other characters and became even more engaged.Marriage of Opposites is based on the history of impressionist painter Pisarro and his rule-breaking parents.
I’ll admit that this connection made the story more interesting, but there’s plenty to keep the reader engaged with the life stories presented in this novel.
One of A Hoffman's best writings...which deals with the history of a mother who could not handle her daughter's stubbornness and insight to learn everything about live and the love she had for her father..this was more of a period piece/era storyline that the author wrote telling us the readers about what took place back in those days like the 1800s..while her educated daughter was forced to marry this older man twice her age,who himself already had a wife(polygamy)..an incredible well written story as seen in the eyes of today's world/society..
The stories took place primarily in St. Thomas and Paris.
Once in Paris it was as though my bones felt cold just reading about the brutal winters.What impressed me most was how the characters were so developed that Hoffman didn't skip even the smallest nuances in their personalities as life and experiences slowly molded each personality and left them far from generalized.I tend to write less what the book is about in my reviews and more of my experience as I don’t like to give too much away, but I will say that I highly recommend this book.I would like to thank NetGalley, Simon & Schuster, and the author for an advanced copy for an honest review.
4.5★This is a completely biased and prejudicial review from an avowed Alice Hoffman fan.She describes “purple air smelling of hyacinths”, a blue eyed woman “whose soul was as quiet as snow”, and a dress made from dyes of heron and midnight blues, with pale lilac so flowerlike “that bees rumbled nearby” then sewn from threads "spun in China, carried overland through the desert on the backs of camels and then sailed across the ocean from Portugal.”And how is it that I have never seen a Camille Pissarro painting?
I had to stop early in the book and look at his paintings, then towards the end I watched a slideshow of over 800 of them.
It probably was but the fact is she has always painted with her words.
I thoroughly enjoyed this novel, while reading it I did not know it was based on a true story.I loved Rachel and the parts of the story centered on her the most.I really enjoyed all the parts that took place on St Thomas, and the mysticism incorporated into this novel.
Vibrant colors, island life, folklore and history all rolled into one.
I breathed the air of the island, saw the colors and came to intimately understand life there.
You start by learning about his mother's life.
The book is so wonderful because it captures family relationships amazingly well.
The author knows people, and her lines beautifully capture how we hurt, love, tease, entice and question each other.The book covers what has shaped the artist - his family relationships.
It is not a book that follows his artistic life, his paintings, his adult years in France.
Each captured the feel of the lines being read.
A slight degree of disappointment that this was not as great as the reviews led me to expect! Nevertheless it was an enjoyable read albeit a little slow in parts. Rachel was an interesting main character. She turned out to be quite unlikable but things certainly happened to her. I lost count of how many children she had and also how many of them died. Like many biographies, real and fictional, the story seemed to falter slightly towards the end as the author tried to find a finishing point. Nevertheless, it was well written and worth reading.
Awash with as much color and depth as as Pissaro painting, Alice Hoffman's "The Marriage of Opposites" tells the story of three generations of a family living in St. Thomas, including the famous painter Camille Pissaro.With lyrical prose, Hoffman engages readers with multi-dimensional characters and a strong sense of place and time.
While this historical fiction story includes a famous person, I loved that the real "star" of the novel is Rachel, Camille Pissaro's mother, a fascinating character in her own right -- not for historical reasons but simply by the way Hoffman created her.
The last Hoffman novel I read was Turtle Moon over 20 years ago.
4.5 What beautiful writing! This book is about the painter Camille Pissarro, I had never heard of him before. It sent me to google so that I could see the paintings he had done. I highly recommend this book to those who love historical fiction. The writing is almost poetic in parts. I loved it!I have to read more by Alice Hoffman.
The exotic Caribbean island of St Thomas in the early 1800s is the setting for "The Marriage of Opposites".
The story centers on Rachel Pomie Petit Pizzarro, the headstrong and passionate mother of the Impressionist painter Camille Pissarro (who changed the spelling of his last name).
Although he was not a blood relative, the love match was considered incest by the religious community and it took years before their marriage was recognized.
The last part of the book is set during Camille's early years as a painter in Paris.
Historical fiction readers will enjoy Hoffman's wonderful storytelling.
Because I'm not in the habit of reading book blurbs before I start a novel, I was half way through this book before I realized it's fiction based on true historical figures, in this case artist Camille Pissaro and his mother. Since I was already loving the beautiful language and setting of St. Thomas, the historical context only added depth.Another real winner from Alice Hoffman, whose work I love.
I loved “The Dovekeepers” and “The Museum of Extraordinary Things,” so I was very excited to be granted early access to “The Marriage of Opposites.” It fits into the Alice Hoffman genre very nicely – historical figures brought to colorful life with just a touch of magical realism.“The Marriage of Opposites” recounts the life of Rachel Pomie Petit Pizzarro, the mother of Camille Pissarro, the French painter considered to be the Father of Impressionism.
(I received a copy of this from the publisher through Edelweiss but this does not alter my review.)Most Alice Hoffman books I have read have been quick reads, rich with magic and relationship stories, more beach reads than deep reads.
I hadn't read the book description all that closely (jumped at it once I saw St. Thomas) and was delighted to realize that the son known as Camille was the great artist.
The main character, Rachel, was the mother of the famed painter Camille Pissarro and one of the most unlikable characters around.
Frankly, I was ready to give up after 100 pages because I dislike spending so much time with a disagreeable person but I had a book to review.
Rachel was raised on the island of St. Thomas.
The discussion of life on St. Thomas was quite interesting.
She then meets the love of her life and after many obstacles marries him.
He is the famed painter Camille Pissarro.
Life is too short to spend time with someone so unlikable.
This is also a love story and a story about relationships with family and friends.
There were characters that I loved in certain parts of the book and disliked in other parts.
She is also a master with imagery and atmosphere, she made me feel what that island was like.After reading this and “The Museum of Extraordinary Things”, I am really becoming a fan of Hoffman.
It’s not nearly as long, but it is multi-generational historical fiction sprinkled with magic.Thank you to NetGalley and Simon & Schuster for providing me with a copy.I added a photo of Camille Pissarro and a couple of his paintings.
Richly layered like a Pissarro painting, The Marriage of Opposites is mesmerizing and hypnotic. I listened to the audio version and decided to download the Kindle version just to SEE the words. I felt as if I'd been transported to another time the entire time I was reading this book. I studied Pissarro's work in college and have always admired his 'revolutionary style', so I found it fascinating to read about his childhood and his mother's story.One of the best books I have read this year! The audio is spellbinding! 5 stars!!
I have to admit that this is the first novel I have read by this author, and wasn’t sure what to expect.“The Marriage of Opposites” by Alice Hoffman is the story of Rachel, the mother of Camille Pissarro, an Impressionism/Post-Impressionism painter.
She took over the family business until relatives of her husband showed from Paris up to handle the estate.
Together they have four more children, one of whom is Camille, to be one of the greatest artists of France.This book is a story of romance set in historical setting, with strong women, family drama, religion, forbidden love, betrayal and, art.
The Marriage of Opposites by Alice Hoffman combines the factual history of Rachel Monsanto Pomie Petit Pizzarro, a Jewish woman, born in 1795 on the island of St. Thomas.
Rachel had three children in her first marriage and four more in her second including her son, Camille Pissarro, a famous, impressionist painter in the late 1800's in France.Most interesting in the story were the societal rules and roles based on religion, race and sex.
Rachel and her son, Camille, both ended up defying societal and family expectations and in the end, both married for love.
The novel is mostly about Rachel Pomie Pizzaro’s life, the mum of the impressionist painter, Camille Pissarro.
Her story is full of love and heartbreak, but happiness finds her later in her life.It’s worth mentioning the unique structure of the novel, which is made up of eleven chapters, five of those consisting of Rachel’s narration in the first person.
When we get to meet Rachel's second husband, Abraham Gabriel Frederick Pizzarro, Hoffman switches to the third person narrative.
I thought the first part of the novel, which was mostly about Rachel, was better, as it was more layered.
3.75 Stars.
This was a lushly descriptive novel about Rachel, a headstrong young woman who marries an older man she doesn't love only later to fall in love with his nephew.
The author did a lovely job of describing the island setting of where Rachel lives.
It is a story filled with island superstitions and mysticism, the rich colors of the flowers, the greenness of a lizard darting through the dense foliage of trees.
Alice Hoffman writes with an almost spellbinding prose that makes her story so vividly brought forth that you could almost see and smell the surroundings.
