https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133486.Nicholas_and_Alexandra
NO SPOILERS!!!On completion: I very highly recommend this book to those interested in Nicholas and Alexandra Romanov, to anyone interested in Russian history, to those interested in the beginning of Bolshevism in Russia and also to those who enjoy historical biographies written by talented authors.
The Russian war against Japan, the French, English and German alliances, Kaiser William II's maneuvering all of this is discussed.Throgh: page 77: If you are curious about the last Tsar of Russia, read this book.
You come to understand why, in turn, she was not welcomed by the Russian elite, at least not now in the beginning, immediately after her marriage with Nicholas.
In Robert Massey's telling, this event caused the downfall of the Romanovs: at the worst possible time, with a war being lost in the east, and workers rioting, and people clamoring for democratic representation, the Romanovs turned inward, focused solely on the fate of their fragile young son.
I tend to agree with him - or more specifically, to believe that history springs from people, great or otherwise - so I enjoy his books.
He's a great writer, and the opening lines of the book just hook you: From the Baltic city of St. Petersburg, built on a river marsh in a far northern corner of the empire, the Tsar ruled Russia.
So with this book you get the best of both worlds you get an accurate historical account of the collapse of Imperial Russia and an exquisite account of love and compassion and you are transported back to Russia in a time of the magnificent life of the court of St Petersburg the opulent palaces and the great balls.It took me a long time to read this book but I found myself so engrossed in the story as the writing is magnificent and I felt that the author Massie transported me to Russia in a way that no writer has ever done before.
But the young heir to the Russian throne, Tsarevich Nicholas, fell for the shy princess with the red-gold hair and wrote in his diary in 1892: "I have loved her a long while and still deeper and stronger since 1889 when she spent six weeks in St. Petersburg."Nicky would make the grand tour, style himself as a playboy, have a fling with a Russian ballet dancer, but in the end his first love would be his last and forever-enduring.In the spring of 1894, Alix and Nicky were together again at a royal wedding in Coburg.
To the end, they continued to believe every folly that had made them prisoners in the land they once ruled with a single hand.This book is an excellent, easy to consume, history detailing the fall of the Romanov dynasty.
However, the author does have bias; Massie wants his readers to know that Nicholas II was, in fact, a really swell guy.
Her sole focus seemed to be in handing down autocratic rule to Baby (her son Alexis).
In the end, this is an excellent non-fiction history book.
I'd recommend it to anyone interested in the Romanov dynasty, the Russian Revolution, or just looking for a well written nonfiction story.
Nicholas added, "I shall maintain the principle of autocracy just as firmly and unflinchingly as it was preserved by my unforgettable dead father." Gosh, this book! I read it with such a dual response: the political side of me condemned everything to do with the Tsar from his opulent lifestyle (the palaces! the yachts! the jewels!) to his stubborn refusal to allow any form of democratic representation to the 130 million Russians under his rule. The plight of the Russian soldiers, especially, du
We need to bear in mind that this was published in 1967 so research has moved on especially with regard to both the manoeuvrings in the run-up to WW1 and in terms of recently opened Russian archives - but this is still utterly engrossing as 'popular' narrative history.Massie is not unbiased and the fact that he, as he tells us in the foreword, is the father of a haemophiliac son creates an intimate and sympathetic connection between his view and his reading of historical events.
However, Robert Massie, having recently discovered that his eldest son had haemophilia, was inspired to put the Imperial Family at the centre of the story, in an inspired biography.When Nicholas fell in love with Alix of Hesse, grand-daughter of Queen Victoria, he, set in motion events which resulted in the end of Romanov rule.
With the Russian Tsar expected to be all powerful, they felt it would be a sign of weakness, and cause speculation about the throne, if anyone discovered the truth.
I was named after Nicholas and Alexandra's daughter Tatiana; my mother is kind of romantically inclined like that. My name was almost Yolanda or Sabrina, so I guess I should count myself lucky. Anyway, this book is one of the things that inspired my mom, and so I really do need to read it sometime. But in the meantime, I highly recommend that you read my friend Hana's review. She's brilliant and writes great reviews and inspires me to read more nonfiction. Hana, you're Goodreads famous!

Nicholas was overwhelmed by his role as Tsar and unable to take a stand against his forceful uncles and his cousin, Kaiser Wilhelm of Germany, who exerted too much control over him in the beginning of his reign, while Alexandra, being very serious and reticent, was immensely unpopular in frivolous Russian society.
Rasputin used his influence with Alexandra to begin exerting more and more control over Russian policy, particularly when Nicholas left to take charge of the troops at the front.
A romantic, tragic and heart wrenching story told by a master storyteller. Excellent book.
Here are some things I knew about the Romanovs before reading Nicholas and Alexandra:-Their rule ended because of the Russian Revolution, which did not go particularly well for them (or for anyone, really).-Alexis was a hemophiliac.-Rasputin was somehow involved, and he was also a bearded super-creeper.-The 1997 animated film is, sadly, not an accurate portrayal of the fate of Anastasia Romanova.Which is to say that I learned quite a lot from this book.My history classes had an overly-simplistic narrative about European revolutions.
Having a son diagnosed with hemophilia Massie's attempt to learn how other families dealt with the problems raised by this unique disease turned in to curiosity about the response of the parents of the boy who was the most famous hemophiliac of all, the Tsarevich Alexis, the only son and heir of Nicholas II, the last Tsar of all of Russias and his wife Empress Alexandra.
Fated to play a the part history has reserved for him Nicholas II was an exceptional man.
Nicholas and Alexandra's lives are presented in exhaustive detail - from their first meeting to the months before their execution - and Massie succeeds in both humanizing them and absolving them of some of the blame for the collapse of the autocracy.
Nicholas, Alexandra, and their son Alexis get distinct personalities, but the four Romanov daughers tend to blend together.
Massie ties everything to the unfortunate condition of the Russian heir, including Alexandra's relationship with Rasputin and her subsequent fall in popularity.
I especially liked some of the side stories; Balanchine and Fabergé were my favorites.
Masterful in explaining the death of Rasputin, the rise of Lenin and red v white.4* N & A5* Peter the GreatWould have picked up Massey's massive and impressive empress Catherine too, except that I have just recently roundly devoured Catherine the Great: Love, Sex and Power
What Massie glosses over is why she took such an active - and catastrophic - role in governing Russia during the Great War. And more importantly, why did Nicolas let himself be dominated by her, even though she was entirely ill-equipped to handle such responsibilities?It seems clear that an honest appraisal of the relationship between Nicolas and Alexandra under the strain of the final years of regime would cast them both in a bad light; she the haughty and foolish meddler, he the weak-willed enabler.
A novelistic account of the decline and fall of the last Tzar and his family. Symbols of a world gone by. A perfect storm of events conspire to bring them down, and you feel quite sympathetic for the Tsar and his family, as they appear to be another set of victims.
Just starting college and thinking of a history degree with a specialization in Russian history, I picked up Massie's biography of the last of the Romanovs with some interest.
The book might be enjoyed by someone entranced with the lives of "royals" and not concerned about those last aristocrats who actually exercised state power by virtue of birth.
Knowing much of anything about Russian history on the eve of their revolution makes this sophomoric study almost insufferable.The movie version of this popular book came out in 1971.
Like the book, it was pretty bad.
An interesting account of the lives of Nicholas and Alexandra - a little too sexist at times, it was written in the late 60's - and it seemed a bit too re-hashed to me. If you know hardly anything about their lives and infamous death, this would be a great choice. If, however, you do know the basics, this might be a bit too much drawn-out information to keep your attention rapt. 3.5 stars
کتاب نیکلا و الکساندرا به تالیف رابرت ماسی و ترجمه زنده یاد ذبیح الله منصوری نویسنده امریکایی در این کتاب تاریخ روسیه رو از زمان الکساندر سوم شروع می کنه و سپس به شرح حال نیکلای دوم آخرین تزار روسیه می پردازه نیکلای دوم با شاهزاده خانم الکساندرا که از شاهزادگان درجه دوم اروپایی محسوب می شد ازدواج کرد ملکه انگلستان مادر بزرگ الکساندرا محسوب میشد و نظر مساعدی برای این ازدواج داشت گرچه پدر و مادر و اطرافیان نیکلای دوم زیاد از این ازدواج خرسند به نظر نمی اومدند ولی در آخر نیکلای تونست رضایت اون ها رو جلب کنه و به مقصودش برسه رابرت ماسی در حین توضیح دادن، استنادهایی به نامه ها و خاطراتی که توسط نیکلای، الکساندرا و ملکه الیزابت و دیگران نوشته شده هم می کنه و عین نامه ها و خاطرات نوشته شده رو در کتاب به رشته تحریر در میاره.
The last years of Tsarism in Russia were tumultuous plagued by the venom of deceit and the stench of malicious intrigue as events surrounding it appeared like a well thought conspiracy between destiny and circumstances, cementing the course of its tragic path towards an impending doom...and at the heart of this with the bickering mob it created, was the gentlest figure of Nicholas II.The tame and kind Nicholas II became the tragic figurehead, whose death can be attributed as becoming of a sacrificial lamb for an ideology that ushered in Communism, reverberating with so much power in the 20th century, not just in Russia, but the whole world.The ironic thing was that love in its most divine form displayed through the sheer humility and submission of Nicholas II played a pivotal role in the destruction of the Imperial Russia as this same fervor of love surrounded his timid image from the onset as a loving husband to Alexandra, a devoted father to his children and a Tsar with a burning patriotism to serve his forlorn Mother Russia.
It was the most emotional book for me this year, I was disturbed and shaken for days and weeks after reading it.
Also, I immersed myself in reading many works about Russian history, such as  Peter the Great: His Life and World, also by  Robert K.
As all Russian empresses, she had to convert to Orthodox faith and after that, you can enjoy reading about one of the most famous fanatics in history.
If you think you can handle gruesome details and you enjoy epic history movies, I believe this is the perfect book for you.
By the end of the book, the reader can appreciate the isolation of Tzar Nicholas and feel the helplessness of the imperial family to the tragic climax when the winds of change swept them away.In my view, the thesis of the author, that it was Alexei’s hemophilia that doomed the empire, although romantic is not entirely credible.
I personally didn’t enjoy this book as much as did Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman which I highly recommend, nonetheless it was a worthy read for me.
Recommended to readers interested in the history of Russia.
Massie takes a deep look at the family life of Nicholas II, and the book retains this focus throughout.
He writes well, portrays his characters well, and I almost buy his central idea: that the autocracy fell primarily because of Nicholas' softness and weakness, combined with the perverse results that came from Alexandra's care for her only son's hemophilia.
I tend to think that bigger forces were at work than the family matters that are the subject here.
But the family matters, on their own, are pretty fascinating, and Massie does a really good job of making these people understandable and human.
Epic story of the last Tsar of Russia....NONFICTION, but reads like a novel...so worth it if you have any interest in Russian history. The movie based on the book is quite good too.
The imprint this family made on history has since morphed into something very different after the fall of the USSR, yet it manages to hold strong, nonetheless.Our look at the lives of this couple begins with Nicholas’ interest in Alexandra - or Alix, as she was known during her time as a German princess.
As we learn more about their eventual marriage, Massie provides us with useful details about their younger years, contrasting their upbringings and expectations.I will give Massie a great deal of credit for constructing a narrative that feels both informative and inviting.
is a book I absolutely recommend to anyone with an interest in this couple, their family, or simply the time period.
Because today marks the 100th anniversary of this family's passing, and concluding this journey I started at ten would be the perfect way, to me, to honor that.Now that I'm older, I got sucked into the latter half of this book for entirely different reasons; there is something so engrossing about watching Czar Nicholas' hubris, about watching an empire fall.
sometimes, I still call my cousin "Olga" and she calls me "Maria." To this very day.*My password that I first created at 10 for my first computer was Romanov-inspired.*In elementary/middle school I first came up with a character and a story that would stay with me for years and years and years, spawning two full drafts of a novel.
With access now to material still classified in 1967, today's reader might be forgiven for dismissing parts of this work as outdated and incomplete propaganda, notably penned by an American during his country's Cold War with Russia.
And yet, penned by a man who would devote most of his life to studying Russia's Imperial family, we sense this book's accuracy and personal impartiality.
Their abominable treatment at the hands of Russia's revolutionaries is truly heart wrenching.Tsar Nicholas we see as a mild mannered man, perhaps weak in certain areas of rulership, but a good, kind, decent husband, father and son.
Russian history is absolutely fascinating and this book has piqued my interest in learning more.
The characters in the book don't seem real- from Tsar Nicholas (the tsar who never wanted to be a tsar), the Empress (villainized by the press as "the German woman" despite her true and deep love for Russia, God, and her family), Rasputin (the purely EVIL monk....don't even get me started on him), Alexei Romanov (the heir who suffered as a hemophiliac), to many, many more.
I will definitely read more books about Russia and would love to visit one day!
In the introduction Massie quoted Kerensky, the last Russian Prime Minister before the Bolsheviks took over, as saying, "Without Rasputin, there could have been no Lenin." Masse further notes that without Tsarevich Alexis' hemophilia, Rasputin would have never become a confident of a Tsar Nicholas and Empress Alexandra desperate to heal their child and heir.
This is not a short book by any means, over 500 pages.
The author contends that a monarch has a personal stake in the fate of a country that cuts across politics and that a dynastic vision means a longview rather than short-term perspective.
