https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238360.Megan_Meade_s_Guide_to_the_McGowan_Boys
a great book, i would say thought with a really frusrating and incomplete ending.
Breasts." One day you're living alone with parents, next thing you know, out pop the seven dwarfs.
Megan is staying with seven brothers for two years, until her parents come back from South Korea.
This time, Megan's not budging, she has just found a new best friend and this was the year she was finally ready to flirt with Ben palmer.
Either moving to South Korea with her parents, or say hello to the Mcgowan boys.
Megan picks option B.
This may not be one of the best books you've ever read, but you'll definately going to remember it.
Because I am in a listy mood.1) Plot in a sentence: Megan’s parents get a job overseas, she refuses to go, they let her stay with the McGowan’s, the McGowan’s are a family of 9, no girls (except the mom) all boys, Megan makes friends (and more than friends) and has an interesting experience altogether.
But it wasn’t that great, I could read it and understand it and it felt teenagery enough, but I guess I just didn’t like it.
I liked how all the boys had different personality’s, and sure, the parents were a little stereotyped.
Megan is stupid though so that kinda put a damper on things.The McGowan boys (all 7 of them) kinda made up for her stupidity and ignorance though.I have a question.
Megan only figured out that Finn liked her when he was friggin' sucking her face!
Megan and the 7 McGowan boys were playing ultimate Frisbee.
"Finn smiled openly at her and Megan grinned, her heart pounding.
interesting, Megan thought."And just a few pages ago, Finn was "the one."Please tell me how anyone can write this oh-so-obvious cliff-hanger and not continue with AT LEAST a sequel.Way to piss someone off, Kate Brian.
This is a total girl fantasy novel.
Take a girl, make her a bright, shy, athletic type, and have her live in a house with 7 boys (not relatives) who have "been blessed by the Abercrombie Gods." Since she has to live there with these family friends while her parents are posted to S.
Korea (career Army), Megan decides to make the best of it, and begins sending all her findings about the strange world of boys she now inhabits.
Throw in some romantic possibilities and a "mean girls" style queen bee to take down a peg, and you have a very fun, totally implausible novel.
Ummm, that's how it ended? It didn't feel like an ending at all.
Ugh..another stupid heroine who still likes the guy even after he treated her like trash and gave her the cold shoulder.
Finn is the right one for you and he's been there all along, Megan.
When Evan looked at you with 100 percent intensity like he wanted to kiss you, smack him in the head!
FINN!
instead of saying "interesting" when Evan looked at you like he wanted to eat your face, you should have run to the fucking hills and save yourself!
I thought iam gonna like it and i did for like 60 percent BEFORE the ending RUINED everything.
I was in the mood for a light rom/com style book and this one fit the bill nicely.
The plotline initially caught my attention because it reminded me of those 70's movies about large catholic families (Your, Mine and Ours, With Six you get Eggroll, etc) In this case only child, Megan Meade is an army brat who's lived around the globe with her military parents but Korea is just "One Bridge Too Far." She rebels and her parents agree to let her stay in the States if she'll stay with friends of her folks who have seven sons.
The brothers are all pretty well distinguished, Megan is likeable and her ordeal is one that both guys and girls will find interesting.
I would recomend this as a good, light, fun read.
Something that really bothered me was that Finn’s comment on his brother, Miller, who has Asperger’s, a form of autism, was just wrong.
Here it is: “And there’s nothing you can say about it because he’s sick, you know?” (page 189)Now, Finn and his brothers have grown up with Miller and they would all KNOW that Asperger’s/Autism isn’t an illness.
I would think their parents would have drilled that into the heads, that their brother is different, not sick.
He should have described his brother as being different, not sick.
I wish I'd liked Meagan's character a little better.
Megan Meade's Guide to the McGowan Boys seems like a book I might have liked reading when I was younger. When I didn't really question slut shaming. When I might have enjoyed these characters, even in their incredibly flat and stereotypical form. When I might have believed that love was this shallow.When I might have not wanted to rip the main character's throat out.
When she refused to pack up and move to South Korea with her parents, both in the army, they proposed another option: spending her last two years of high school living in Boston with the McGowans.
Life with Evan, Sean, Finn, Caleb, Ian, Miller, and Doug McGowan is as foreign to Megan as South Korea would have been.
On top of dealing with the drama of living with the McGowan boys, Megan also has to handle starting over at a new school.
Can Megan handle Boston and the McGowan boys, or will South Korea turn out the be the easier option?
Kate Brian, yo solo quiero saber: 1-) ¿Por qué no dejaste, por lo menos, a Megan con tres de los siete chicos McGowan? Doug, Finn, Evan, y sería feliz ¿Y la continuación? 3-) ¿Por qué Miller tenía que ser tan querible? ¿Por qué? ¿Y por qué Finn también? 2-) ¿Qué es esa mirada de Evan al final? ¿QUÉ ES? ----------------------------------------------------------- Angélica Juárez’s guide to the Juárez boys: (view spoiler)[Observation #1: Tienen un ego del tamaño de la luna… o el sol… o el planeta
1-) ¿Por qué no dejaste, por lo menos, a Megan con tres de los siete chicos McGowan?
3-) ¿Por qué Miller tenía que ser tan querible?
¿Y por qué Finn también?
(view spoiler)[Observation #1: Tienen un ego del tamaño de la luna… o el sol… o el planeta tierra… el espacio.
No tienen nada que envidiarnos, chicas, COMO HUMOR DE SPM.
Y puede ser divertido verlos llorar por una chica.
Y MÁS SI ES POR UNA CHICA.
Como que nos prepara para muchas cosas.Observation #8: Son sobreprotectores.
It's like 'How to Lose a Guy In 10 Days' - but cuter, with SEVEN times the trouble, pranks, heartbreak and laughs!'TooDamn-Funky: It's a start, ok.
u go for 2 weeks talk nothing but Spanish u come back fluent.
Kicker5535: ...????TooDamn-Funky: Well this is like a guy immersion program!Kicker5525: So...what.
I'm going 2 b fluent in GUY?TooDamn-Funky: Exactly!
AND WHEN IT'S DONE YOU'LL BE ABLE TO WRITE A GUY GUIDE BOOK!!Kicker5525: U r deranged.'Megan Meade's not a girly-girl.
When her army-based parents want to move the whole family to South Korea, Megan puts her foot down - and is given an ultimatum.
I liked this. While it was predicatable, it was still interesting and more importantly, it didn't try to be something other than an entertaining book about raging high school hormones and the usual "does he or doesn't he like me" teenage drama. Teenage girl goes to live with her parent's close friends to finish her last two years of high school rather than move again with her military parents and finds herself living with five hot boys that she is supposed to treat like brothers... Like I said, typical, but the 15 year old girl in me loved it.
I read this in France. It was really weird.
Living with 7 boys has got to be so overwhelming.
But the ending was so great!
But again, it was thanks to Megan for standing up for herself against the boys that treated her like crap through most of the book.
I love that Megan was a soccer player.
I loved that each boy in the household was different.
But then, Evan's jealous bitchy girlfriend started shit and made up lies about her, that's when my like for him went out the window.
I love these teen novels that center around high school and first time everything.
Haha.I liked Megan's character, she's not girly but she's not boyish.
lol)4.5 Doug- Artist (graffiti and stuff like that), hated Megan, sophomore, another 'smart one', jerk, became nice, Miller's twin brother.4.5 Miller- Has Asperger's Syndrome, likes stuff to be arranged according to size, obsessed with the NY Yankees, Liked by Aimee (Megan's best friend and Hailey's younger sister)6&7 Ian and Cabel- Little kids, likes playing pranks on MeganMy fave line(s)/quote(s):* "All I know is, he found out you left and he locked himself in the shed and barricaded the door.
While I would like to think I went into reading this book with eyes wide open (shallow, I was expecting shallow, shallow fun), I just couldn't get into it.The characters are different, but they're all flat.
She's so painfully obvious with her crush, but I've never been a fan of the main character carrying on about a guy who's taken.
There are ways that a story could be done that I would not mind this so much, but in this book Megan's crush on Evan just made me uncomfortable.
And the way the book ended was frustrating.
Omg so cute!!
Rating: 3 / 5 stars
It took me reading about fifty pages before I became interested in the story line, but overall I felt that this book tryly demonstrated how life really is for a sixteen year old girl and her struggles with boys.Subjects, themes, and Big Ideas:Friendship, forgiveness, finding your identity, relationships, and romanceCharacters:Megan Meade-sixteen year old girl who's parents moved to Korea and she is now living with her parents friends and their seven boysEvan McGowan-one of the seven boys and Megan's crushMiller McGowan-one of the seven boys who has Asperger's syndromeDoug McGowan-one of the seven boys ("punk child")Aimee Farmer- Megan's best friendHailey Farmer- Evan's girlfriend, Megan's enemyFinn McGowan- one of the seven boys that Megan gets along with the bestSummary:This book is about a sixteen year old girl named Megan Meade.
MEGAN MEADE'S GUIDE IS POSSIBLY THE BEST BOOK I HAVE EVER READ.
I seriously think Megan Meade's is a must read.
Though i really hate that she wasted her time on hot, flirty Evan when sweet, artistic, irresistable Finn.
i know thats a little inaccurate, but i still do.
She believed megan throughout the extent of the book and was a great friend.Now getting to the juicy stuff...
I wish he didn't waste his time on kayla bird (i mean seriously..what kind of name is that???) and went straight for megan and i wish megan had a little more of a thing with evan..
The other female characters in the book are alright, a little stereotypical but not to the point where it negatively affects anything (that it’s not supposed to).
Their parents are pretty stereotypical, tough dad to keep control of seven boys and the mom who is clearly starved for female companionship.I found some of the writing and dialogue could use a little more revision but I’m wasn’t feeling picky about that kind of thing so I still really enjoyed this book.
I probably could have guessed at a lot of what was going to happen, but sometimes it’s nice to read a book like that.
Kate Brian kept me on my toes all night.
In the beginning, I seriously thought Megan would end up with a certain brother because of her complete focus on him.
Then I changed my mind half way because I began to notice some discreet actions from another brother, but then Kate Brian throws an unexpected twist, which threw me off.
I swear, Kate Brian is amazing at throwing some twists on this book.
It's like they are different puzzle pieces coming together, but can't be complete without Megan.
I'm also glad that Kate Brian talked about Asperger Syndrome because I enjoy stories with characters who have it.
Megan Meade, an army brat, is given two choices-either leave with her parents to Korea or move in with their family friends the McGowans,the only problem is that Megan who has yet to have a proper conversation with a guy will have to live with seven of their species!
Leaving behind her best friend Tracy, her soccer team and her long-time crush, Megan arrives in the world of the McGowan boys, a new school and a whole lot of drama.
And Megan Meade's Guide to the McGowan Boys hits it spot on.
Tomboyish,agreeable,funny and socially awkward (more like boy awkward) Megan is the perfect YA protagonist.
It's the first time I'm doing a half-a-star, and it's not exactly sitting right with me.So I picked up a copy of this book from the library after reading its synopsis.
It reminded me completely of a typical manga plot: a girl gets sent to live with a large, all-boy, (handsome) family after she refuses to move to Korea with her parents.
Also, their various personalities, covering every spectrum of possible boy-personalities there are, reminded me of a manga.The plot itself may have been slightly mediocre, and the writing was engaging, but not captivating.
I thought the book was amazing!
I couldn't even put the book down.
I loved the characteristics of each characters in the book.
Especially Finn!
I love how strong Megan is and how she dealt with her problems in a mature way.
I also loved how she really has a genuine heart in the book.
I just love love love the book!
I'm so in love with Finn.
There should be a sequel to this book!
I also loved Doug's breakout in the book.
Overall, the book was amazing.
I absolutely adored this book.
So much that I didn't want it to end and kept flipping pages, knowing there had to be more.
Right?
I mean, I have to know more about what happens now with flirtatious, gorgeous Evan, and soulful, artful, beautiful Finn.
And Doug and Miller, I felt like I was just beginning to understand their characters and....and....and, yeah, I kinda got emotionally connected to this book.
To Megan and her journey.
I laughed a lot, smiled even more, and even cried a bit.
This was my first Kate Brian book but I can't wait to dig in and find some more :)
4.5/5Este es un libro sencillo y ágil. Me hizo reír mucho.Sin lugar a dudas una lectura recomendable entre exámenes para despejar la cabeza!Megan me hizo reír MUCHO MUCHO con sus salidas!Quien no quisiera vivir con los McGowan ♥
3.75 stars.I like the development the characters went through in this, I just feel like their needs to be another book/short story where we see our main character get the boy.
