https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10801.The_Big_Rock_Candy_Mountain
[Taking a deep breath before attempting the tightrope walk that keeps me from over-sharing while at the same time justifies why the book deserves all 5 stars.] One genealogical precursor in this story was the father’s father who lost an arm and any sense of humor he might have had as a prisoner in the Civil War. Another was the mother’s Norwegian heritage and farm upbringing that made her hearty and resilient.
[…a man] moved along a line dictated by his heritage and his environment, but he was subject to every sort of variation within the narrow limits of his capabilities.” With Stegner drawing the plots, every wiggle was worth noting.The book was published in 1943 when Stegner was 34 years old, teaching at Harvard.
Reading Wallace Stegner is like having a really great first boyfriend.
Sometimes he's so good that you don't even want anyone after him.The Big Rock Candy Mountain is the book that should have won Stegner the Pulitzer Prize long before he wrote Angle of Repose.
I've read commentary indicating that Big Rock Candy Mountain is largely autobiographical.
If that is true, my heart aches for the little boy that was Wallace Stegner.
Perhaps those early painful experiences were what made him the soulful and understanding author we love.Stegner is the conductor for the music of my heart.
On the Big Rock Candy Mountain Where the cops have wooden legs, And the handouts grow on bushes, And the hens lay soft-boiled eggs, Where the bulldogs all have rubber teeth And the cinder dicks are blind—I’m a-gonna go Where there ain’t no snow, Where the rain don’t fall And the wind don’t blow On the Big Rock Candy Mountain. #This is a novel about chasing rainbows..Big, handsome Bo (Harry) Mason has many talents. But Bo is bored, restless, driven to find the gold at the end of the rainbow. “Th
“There was somewhere, if you knew where to find it, some place where money could be made like drawing water from a well, some Big Rock Candy Mountain where life was effortless and rich and unrestricted and full of adventure and action, where something could be had for nothing.” The next venture is always going to be the one to make his family rich, happy and solve all their problems.
4.5★If you’ve read Stegner, a man I consider one of America’s national treasures, you will already know his writings are dense.
The closing pages compel me to bump the stars up to five.One of my favorite passages: https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/7650...Extras:The author titled this book, as well as a later one Where the Bluebird Sings to the Lemonade Springs from lines in a song also used in the movie O Brother, Where Art Thou?
The Big Rock Candy Mountain
This version is visually entertaining as well.https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Jqowm...Wallace Stegner: A Writer’s Life A one hour documentary the author participated in shortly before his death.
So many novels have been written about the American west and the deeper meaning behind the search for get-quick-rich-schemes, the big rock candy mountain, over the next rise, something for nothing, an improved world, and/or get away from man's own nature.
I have great respect for this well-known author for pouring out the good and bad memories into this personal tale of his life as part of his drifter-family in the early twentieth century.
One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest is certainly one of the most iconic American novels ever written, and for sure the best, shameful, example of how an author was screwed out of his words big time by his publishers who robbed him of his rights to royalties.
All except Elsa, whose strengths and weaknesses are both transparent - she is one of the most intriguing and sympathetic characters I've read.I also loved that this book took me to the Utah of long ago, an emerging place, a western wasteland of outcasts and misfits that was slowly turning into something grand and worthwhile - the side of Utah that the Mormons of my ancestry probably wished didn't exist and certainly wouldn't have appreciated.
He is a talented dreamer with a large dose of wanderlust, who works hard at his dreams, but seems to always see them drift away.
The Mason children figure large in this story as well.
Bo stands in for America in a way.
Else loves Bo, despite his inability to settle down, despite his harshness, his immaturity.
She stands in for the more domestic piece of America.
It ultimately takes him away from his dreams.
Perhaps the most American is Bruce, the mama’s boy who ultimately strikes off on his own to make a truly better life.
The plot of Stegner's book, and in many ways the core of his thinking, is that rather than a society of neatly spaced Individuals striving towards transcendence, the unforgiving actuality of the West (its poverty, its harsh weather, and most of all, its aridity) forces people to cling to one another in order to survive, in a delicate balance between dependence and destruction.
While all classes sometimes indulge in the unnecessary torture and humiliation of their children in the name of morality, poor people do it in far greater numbers and far more openly with more social acceptance because of religious beliefs or customary family traditions throughout generations (i.e., my father beat me and his father beat my father and his father beat great-grandfather, and so on, to teach them obedience and decency).In the novel, medical care is shockingly primitive or not available to the characters.
I am reminded of the classic Doonesbury cartoon when Mike embarks on a motorcycle tour of the country as Zonker asks him to “Call me when you find America.” Reading this epic would have been a good starting point for that journey.Set in the first third of the 20th century, we follow the Mason family at they struggle to prosper and consistently fail to set roots of stability.
Elsa Norgaard Mason is the force of stability, a loving mother of two boys who might well be one of the most sympathetic characters in American literature, whose “qualities…would get you saintliness, but never greatness.” And we see her boys Chet and Bruce grow up from infancy to childhood, constantly straining to wish them a good, happy life.
I'll just say this instead: The character development and the writing are fantastic and certain scenes are forever etched in my brain.
(Actually, maybe "seared in my brain" is a better description.) I'll never forget the scenes with Bo trying to return to his family in the middle of an intense blizzard and raging flu epidemic.
Other scenes I balked at include one where Bo is having a two-way conversation with a mannequin and Bruce is having one with a closet full of his mother's clothes.
I don't have an issue with Magical Realism in general, but I thought those scenes jarred with the style of the rest of the writing.
(view spoiler)[ The Big Rock Candy Mountain is a story about a man's relentless pursuit of quick riches and success and the destruction it brought upon himself and his family.
A home had to be lived in every day, every month, every year for a long time, till it was worn like an old shoe and fitted the comfortable curvatures of your life.” The novel explored the theme of home in a moving way.
It was poignant that the frenetic candy chase did not add an ounce of happiness or peace to the Mason family life.
It's a story of family,searching for home, escape and return, survival against adversity, the American dream gone wrong, and ultimately, forgiveness.Told by multiple narrators, the four members of the Mason family, the story covers some thirty plus years in the life of Elsa, the man she comes to love and marry, Bo, and their two sons, Chet and Bruce.
It isn't where your family comes from and it isn't where you were born, unless you have been lucky enough to live in one place all your life.
For most of us, home and family are central to our lives.
Why couldn't Stegner be decent and write a book with an antagonist toward whom I could detachedly direct my righteous indignation?
I want to look away, to deny that he exists and that anyone could possibly write my story, could put me in a different time, (though in the same place,  much of the novel is set in Seattle) and reveal my actions so rawly to anyone who cares to read them.
The Big Rock Candy Mountain is a course correction wrapped in a brilliantly written novel that gripped me like few books ever have before.

This story covers 30 years during the early part of the 20th century and tells of a families struggles through those years.
There were moments while following the Mason's; Bo, Elsa, and their sons, Chet and Bruce, that I was sure I would only give this book 3 stars because there were areas in the tale that bored me.
The characters in this story are so true to life, so defined, that you can't help but become engrossed in their journey.
Admittedly, there is not a lot in the synopsis that would seem to draw a reader to the book, but in my opinion, this is a gem.
In one way, the novel seems Chekhovian: it’s like a portrait.
“As long as the road ran west he didn’t want to stop, because that was where he was going, west beyond the Dakotas toward home.” That, by the way, is one gorgeous soliloquy as Bruce unravels the difference between “home” and “place.” Home is “where the bluebird sings to the lemonade springs,” on the Big Rock Candy Mountain.
I'm on a Stegner kick.
The Big Rock Candy Mountain drags your heart along for the ride as you read about two generations of the Mason family and their (mis)adventures scratching out a life in succeeding versions of America's western frontier.
The patriarch Bo Mason berates his wife Elsa and frightens his sons Chet and Bruce across more states than you can count.
But even in the end, his insatiable taste for booms and busts remains endearing, or at least somehow forgivable.
A little long towards the end, but mostly in the interminable tragedy of it.
It's quite a journey with Stegner's family, from before he was born until early adulthood.
Although the book jacket synopsis calls Bo Mason (the character name for Stegner's dad) "ruthless and violent" he is more than that, a multi-layered character.
I will definitely read this book again someday.
Stegner was only 34 when the book was published, and it definitely shows great talent and promise.
I love reading books like this that make you want to have a highlighter pen handy, just to save particularly poetic, thought-provoking phrases.
At times difficult to read and at times heart wrenching .
If you want to feel like you actually know these characters by the end, then it is.
I did read this with trepidation throughout, due to the volatile nature of the main character Bo Mason.
Stegner for me has the ability to think of a story in his head and when he puts pen to paper it reads like you are there in the story.
This book is called semi-autobiographical.
The characters are based on his own mother, father, brother and himself.
This is my second book by Stegner and won't be my last.
The beauty of Stegner’s prose combined with a plot that follows the challenges of settling in the West that my own ancestors faced makes it resonate with me deeply: From wishful goldmines in Nevada to bootlegging and moving and moving and moving and switching jobs over and over.I hoped I’d have the same reaction to The Big Rock Candy Mountain.
It’s good, and in many ways prescient of his Pulitzer Prize winning Angle of Repose, but not great and more depressing than hopeful.
Repeat and repeat again … then again, and again and again.Stegner is a compelling writer, even poetic at times, but the book feels as if it was written by someone stricken with an untreatable form of obsessive compulsive disorder who is compelled by some inner fixation to tell the same story over and over again … in minute detail and with minor variations.
A new plan is formed and hope for the family rises, only to be dashed on the rocks of despair.
Each time tragedy strikes, Stegner wallows in the family’s misery, probing the depths of unhappiness with a relish that borders on pathological.
The high rating is because it is flawless very detailed writing.
Title is descriptive of the footloose patriarch of the family and the story is as good as I expected.
And now the other side of this,though I did not drowse while reading,I was aware the book was..
Just this edge of painful because of some great writing but next time I read Stegner I'm purposefully searching out an abridged version.
I prefer this story over The Angle of Repose, but would say that was still a good book for engineers and naturalists.
Lots of very flawed characters.Who’s to “blame” when a family goes wrong?
She's a contradiction to her own dreams & desires.Her love for Bo is destructive to the family by moulding herself to his goals/dreams, she sacrifices the children.
All in all, this book is full of flawed characters living everyday, real lives of the times.
In that way, we are all flawed and the best we can do is try to recognize that fact and reach out to try to understand others through communication.
The book has made me think a lot about family.
I don't know why it has taken me so long to read my way through Wallace Stegner's fiction, and it feels odd to be giving a novel published in 1943 such high marks as a compelling narrative that captures some of the rougher times in American history so powerfully.I'm sure all my praise for The Big Rock Candy Mountain has been offered before, but I'll offer it again.
If you want to know what's probably wrong, look to Bo, and to a lesser extent to the abused and defensive boys.As a writer, Stegner is ambitious and dextrous.
Its central character is Harry “Bo” Mason, a physically powerful, aggressive person who left his parents’ home at the age of fourteen, survived working hard-labor odd jobs, is self-reliant, fiercely stubborn, and, given to “chasing dreams of acquiring quick wealth,” unrealistically ambitious.
Nevertheless, Elsa is whom I cherished and respected.Essential to the story is how Chet and Bruce, the two sons, affected by the characteristics and actions of their parents, develop.
How much is a person willing to risk to achieve an ambitious goal?
If this is, as I have read it was, crafted to be loosely and liberally based around the story of the author and his father, then what a childhood he must have had and how remarkable that he grew to overcome those childhood experiences with such insight into the human psyche as he displays in his books.
This is the third Stegner novel that I have read and all are deep, thought-provoking books that fully develop the characters and show them from every angle.
It is also fully the story of his wife, tender, nurturing, but also enabling who would not care about the ultimate success, but simply wants to have her dream which is all about home, hearth and family.
A big fat sprawling novel with a fascinating story line. Exactly the kind of book I used to love to wallow in. Now, however, such books make me restless. I want more and at the same time I want less. The writing, of course, is good, if not lyrical. The plot was always believeable. I’d like to have been Stegnor’s editor, taking a blue pencils to those passages of endless description, and those sections where he felt compelled to explain every motive and every thought in his characters’ heads.
This book was written much earlier in his career so I worried it would feel dated.
I need not have worried this book could have been written last year.
It is fresh with prose so beautiful that it is a book to be savoured and certainly not rushed.
It's a time of the last gold rush the time of prohibition and boot-legging.
Can a family survive his constant ambition?
Can his marriage survive his reluctance to put down roots?.This book explores the dynamic of this family and the consequences of one man's thirst for the good life.
Everytime I read Wallace Stegner, I am totally immersed.
After reading Stegner book, I'm more critical of other writers.
In this one, Bo Mason, a rough and tough midwesterner in the early part of the 20th century meets Elsa and falls in love.
Give yourself a treat and read a classic by Wallace Stegner.
But we are treated to Stegner's depiction of the early 20th century's version of America and bordering Canada which is of great interest.
I cannot get this story or the characters out of mind and everyone will find a little of themselves here.
