https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218659.Everything_That_Rises_Must_Converge
Sometimes Flannery O'Connor feels like a verbally abusive boyfriend that you just keep going back to.
You sigh a bit deeper at the end of each tale, feeling a little more defeated by the uglier sides of existence, the weaknesses of human beings, and the general cruelty masked within the humdrum buzzing of life.
Her view is grim, you never hope for a Hollywood ending, you sense it building page by page, the inevitable dagger to the gut that will be dealt by the final paragraph, and then that last hit comes at you almost like clockwork.
Or course the difference between Kafka's Kafka-esque consumptive death and their own is that Kafka was busy creating and destroying a life time of work while also busy dying; some of these characters are only waiting for life to acknowledge their genius that they are sure is do to them because they learned some books in a university somewhere.Life though has a nasty little trick of not being put on hold while you wallow around thinking the world owes you something.

I have tried and tried to read Flannery O'Connor because people I trusted said I should but the darkness always got to me.
Then I read her letters-A Habit of Being-and fell in love with Flannery.
They were still painfully dark but I got the 'redemption.' Flannery understood people and she was unwilling to let any of us off the hook.
She does not tell pretty stories.
She tells true stories, the stories of the heart, the stories underneath the stories.
Although it is quite possible I would not recognize those dark places of my own heart.
This lovely collection of sentimental stories is just the thing for a rainy Sunday when you want to curl up on the couch and read your blues away.
Just try to read the title story, in which a beloved mother learns she has something surprising in common with a woman of color, without feeling your spirits rise!
Or "A View of the Woods," a beautiful pastoral where an old man takes his favorite granddaughter out for ice cream and they both learn about the importance of family.
And talk about chicken soup for it - your mother never made chicken soup like this!Soundtrack: you must always listen to Lucinda Williams while reading Flannery O'Connor.
4.5 stars.When the mother in the title story asserts to her son Julian: "I know who I am," she is mainly referring to her social & cultural identity, identities that divide us from human beings who happen to be on the other side of race, class, religion, gender, because if you really knew who you are; that self-realization itself would open the doors of perception, kindness, empathy—leading to a state of grace.Grace that is the linchpin of Flannery O'Connors' writing & it comes in unexpected ways to the most unlikely of her characters.Religion dominates her work; in both its presence & absence.
Julgo que não será necessário apreciar contos para delirar com estas maravilhas; basta gostar de ler — e ter alguma queda para histórias negras, amargas, grotescas — que Flannery O'Connor trata do resto...
These story have humour thrown in she tries to give us a view of how we behave and how insanely stupid and careless we can be.
There are a few stories here that that have characters who behave in a fascist manner and used words, N words, that readers might find offensive.
The only reason, her being a catholic, in writing with these words and characters can only be to shock and show the reader how one can look like from the outside.
Once I have read that edition I will give a breakdown of each story.
I read/listened to A Good Man is Hard to Find and Other Stories and Everything That Rises Must Converge back-to-back and have to say that I found the tone of this book a bit softer than A Good Man. While both books share a dearth of characters vying for sainthood, this last volume written before her death at least seems to offer some hope for humanity.
*1 Star - The only thing that would improve this book is a good bonfire.
Prose style: 2Plot: 3Depth of characters: 3Overall sense of aesthetic: 2 Originality: 3Entertaining: 1Emotional Reaction: 2 Intellectual Stimulation: 4 Social Relevance: 4Writerly Inspiration: 1 Average = 2.5 Click hereThere were some stories that I thought were very strong, the first two especially.
I felt like taking out a red and green highlighter and coloring each character's name.
Look how tragic it is when bad things happen to good people!
If you can consider the simple prose and stockish characters more as a vehicle for her musing on ethical dilemmas, then you know, it is not too bad.
Her readers need to be forcefully taught how to accept the grace of God in their life, and O'Connor thought that writing this type of weird, grotesque stories was the best way to do exactly that.
Which one of us hasn't felt the urge to be charitable and "save" someone, as though he were a personal messiah, in the most sanctimonious and annoying way possible, knowing for sure exactly what this other person needs, for example, and what we "can do" for them, while at the same time abandoning things that are staring us in the face, as Sheppard in The Lame Shall Enter First has done?
You think, 'dear God, she can't be serious', but she really is, and you can't help but admire the audacity of a writer, who is supposed in an almost canonical way to stand for modernity, liberalism, and all those other wonderful things, who instead throws their hypocrisy in their face.
The author has been called "a genius" for her woebegone tales of southern white trash, hence many readers humbly accept this hyperbole and are in agreement.
Her stories or parables are too similar for my taste buds and, for best effect, should be read months apart.
I read in a compressed "sit" and wanted to gore certain critics, like Alfred Kazin, just as Mrs May is off'd in "Greenleaf." (Foreshadowed early in the story; same with the gun in "The Comforts of Home").
I daresay I know more about the southern "spirit," as Kazin calls it, than know-it-all Kazin, who never left NYC).There's a deadly religio-meller sameness in these stories that I resist.
(this review kind of takes in 'A Good Man is Hard to Find' as well)...been wallowing in Flannery O'Connor's world for a few days now, and in some ways that has worked against the effectiveness of these great stories.
I'll never forget the horn garlanded bull in the moonlight, the tractor going into the tree, the shots in the woods.None though seem as strong and cruel and shocking as A Good Man is Hard to Find, the first and still the best story of her's I've read.
These stories are fascinating case studies, and some of them are just perfectly written down to the last word.The showpiece here is "Greenleaf" (if you read only one O'Connor story, it should be this one) but I also loved "A View of the Woods," "Revelation" and "The Lame Shall Enter First." If you are interested in getting into the shadows of the human heart and see both the ugly and the nasty, these stories will satisfy and leave your mouth agape with wonder and truth.
I was reminded of The Brothers Karamazov, and maybe that's all I need to say to compliment O'Connor, here endorsing the view that kindness and care begin with those closest to us, as well as arguing that a person's IQ score doesn't determine their worth or potential.In his introduction Robert Fitzgerald rebuts the assertion that O'Connor stories express no feeling for the natural world.
These three uses/defences of nature are given in that order - first the 'view', reverence of the creation, second 'play', which for the child could be seen as direct, loving, learning experience, and third 'grazing', a relationship involving the taking of sustenance from nature that could be either extractive or symbiotic.Many of the stories are about race, and describe a situation of shifting tensions in the South.
Os nove contos que completam este livro, são brutais, violentos, crus e estão escritos de forma sublime.
Why was Jacob so obviously engrossed in this book of mid-20th century short stories?Each story in the collection is a deceptively simple observation of everyday events, objects and people either set in or relating to the American South.
I really enjoyed the twists in "The Lame Shall Enter First", and the characters in "The Comforts of Home." The rest were just really tough to get through.Back to Lost - why would Jacob be reading "Everything That Rises Must Converge"?
Certainly the title is prophetic for Lost - the individual character's story lines all converge on an unbelievable coincidental future and at the end of the 5th season the past was potentially being re-written.
Flannery O'Connor once said about black souls, that "I can only see them from the outside.
And in "Everything That Rises Must Converge", Julian's mother, isn't be able to get in a bus by herself because she's afraid and uncomfortable sharing a bus with black people.Besides this, Flannery O'Connor incredibly describes strained familial relationships, (fathers and daughters, mothers and sons, sister and brother).
Fathers ignoring their children and being unable to connect with them like in "The Lame Shall Enter First".This book, finally, is one of the best collection of short stories I have ever read.
It's hard to describe how disturbing, macabre and gothic-seeming these stories are. There are no happy characters, no pleasant endings, only sadness, tragedy, bad behavior and disillusionment. They will be hard to forget, and I'm anxiously awaiting my book club discussion about them. Glad to finally be able to say I've read some of Flannery O'Connor's works; better late than never. I would love hearing where her inspirations for these stories came from.
Although the language was apropos for the times when this was written, the words still sting. Even after all these years, I couldn't finish this book of short stories. I'm usually thick skinned and realistic when it comes to reading but not even these many years later can some words be over looked. I know that the stories delve into one's psyche and go much deeper than I am willing to go at the moment. I have nothing against O'Connor's writing, it is masterful. This one is just not good for "Me".
Nice Catholic ladies aren't supposed to demolish you like this. O'Connor was born to be a literary knife fighter. Page after page, with zero sentimentality, O'Connor rips the grotesque out of her characters and with a bareknuckle, Christian realism absolutely dares you to turn the page. Hers is a painful grace, a search for the holy in the swamps of the Southern absurd. The brilliant thing about O'Connor is by telling her stories of divine grace among the heretics and the horrors, the reader might easily miss the divine spark in the grotesque and absurd darkness.
Flannery O'Connor combines an ear for dialect and dialog with racial and class ironies in the reforming South; at the heart of her stories is a controlling sensibility like Mrs Turpin who asks God at the end how she is like a pig.
But curiously, her novels are not as powerful and resonant as her stories.
As a college lit teacher, I once assigned my Freshman the usual ten stories in two weeks, but for a change, they were all from one author, this one.
I never again assigned so many of O'Connor's stories in a short period.
This is my first full collection by O'Connor; I'd previously read individual stories, mostly from A Good Man Is Hard to Find.
I read it last week while in South Africa, which added a layer of meaning to the early stories in the book, which delve further into race relations than any other stories of hers that I've read.
I found it interesting that most of O'Connor's protagonists are male.
Most of the stories are on the tragic side; a week later, I'm hard pressed to think of one that ended on a hopeful note.
The settings and the characters are well imagined, and the stories are thematically rich.
Good stuff.
Here is O'Connor's best: pitch-black, scathingly perceptive, vicious. Many of these deal with the problems of a flacid intellectualism unable or unwilling to accomplish any good and consumed by its own narcissism. The others deal with various sociopaths, zealots, and uncomprehending racists. Nothing can end well for any of them. And then, shortly after filing a last story called "Judgement Day", Flannery O'Connor died.Read as part of the Complete Stories.
There's no doubt O'Connor is fun to read. Her violent, sad, and perverse stories about racist, God-fearing Southern hicks seem almost to occur on a mythic plane, like the sort of creepy old folktales that haunt your mind for way too long after you hear them. And yet, much of this collection is shot through with a barely concealed moralism that renders her plots contrived and her characters two-dimensional. Making all the atheist and non-believing characters evil, or at least unsympathetic, struck me as an especially cheap shot.
"Behind the newspaper Julian was withdrawing into the inner compartment of his mind where he spent most of his time. This was a kind of mental bubble in which he established himself when he could not bear to be a part of what was going on around him. From it he could see out and judge but in it he was safe from any kind of penetration from without."Many of the stories deal with issues of race in a post-Civil War South that was changing, particularly the title story and "Judgement Day."
One of the best lines of dialogue in the English language: "I wouldn't milk a cow to save your soul from hell." Her characters are larger-than-life bastards and I love them all.
I would like to know more of the Catholic in these stories.I particularly like "Greenleaf" and "Revelation".
This is why I think "Revelation" is one of my favorites - it embodies what many of the stories edge toward...a truer vision of life, eternity, and God (in FOC's point of view) - or at the very least a clearer view of themselves.
I hear some people apologizing for her use of the "N" word - but she is revealing the sad truth there, and we have made progress, but are certainly not beyond major race issues.
I love so many of these stories, these tales of generational disconnect, how dim hostility lies underneath, not-quite-hidden below many parent-child interactions, especially after the child enters adulthood.
I will make you see that." There is so much that is unfairly true in these stories; Older generations refusal to see change, Young people who blithfully force the world to acknowledge their view with no empathy, the South's bittersweet disconnect with new culture ( not always presented terribly, mind you) and abject fear with the concept of "New York" ( which is absolutely real).
