https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95972.Slightly_Out_of_Focus
"The war will not last much longer. For you it will never last long enough." Slightly Out of Focus is Robert Capa's World War II memoir. In 1941 he arrived in Europe for a photojournalism assignment and then spent the next four years traveling the countries documenting the embattled grounds and the people that inhabited them. What an odd the job of a war photographer is. Not only do they expose themselves voluntarily to the dangers of war, but they also profit from something which horrific cons
Slightly Out of Focus is Robert Capa's World War II memoir.
What an odd the job of a war photographer is.
And Robert Capa is a legend among them.
It comes across different than in history books or in the stories people who fought in it or were labeled victims of it tell.
Robert Capa was there to do a job.
While Capa loved writing and interestingly would have liked to see himself as a writer first and photographer second, it is the images that make this so powerful.
"He knew that you cannot photograph war, because it is largely an emotion.
روایت کاپا جالبه اما عکسهاش چیز دیگرند! نه تنها کتاب ویرایش نشده، بلکه نمونهخوانی هم نشده. پُره از اشتباههای تایپی متأسفانه
روایت کاپا جالبه اما عکس‌هاش چیز دیگرند! نه تنها کتاب ویرایش نشده، بلکه نمونه‌خوانی هم نشده. پُره از اشتباه‌های تایپی متأسفانه
Lo straordinario talento di Capa come fotografo e l'abilità di raccontare i fatti della seconda guerra mondiale sono racchiusi in questo capolavoro, conosciuto purtroppo da pochi, soprattutto in Italia.Le fotografie sono testimonianze della distruzione di massa che la guerra ha portato e la sua testimonianza è quella di un fotografo, ma anche di un uomo che ha vissuto in prima linea gli avvenimenti più importanti del secondo conflitto. Ogni buon lettore, amante della storia e amante della fotografia dovrebbe fare avere una copia in casa di questo libro.
With that said, there are fabulous moments of the book, three specifically, each offering a serious rumination: 1) The first is Capa's confrontation with an American WWII pilot, who, after bringing back four of his fallen brothers, turns to Capa and says "Are these pictures you were waiting for, photographer?" and for the first time, Capa must consider the ethical complexities of his profession: "On the train to London, with those successfully exposed rolls in my bag, I hated myself and my profession.
Imagine a very charming funny man buying you drinks, and telling you fantastic stories, and it's very late at night, and you don't want to leave because everything is too wonderful.
This is what this spare book is like.He is all at once hilarious, funny, self-deprecating, clever, frustrating, and so beautifully heart-breaking.
The scenes where he describes what was around him during combat are astounding.
waiting twenty/thirty years (alas he didn't have that chance) so there wasn't hindsight or nostalgia to color the description of the experience.
Landing on Normandy beach on D-Day is one of the most evocative scenes.
You really feel his terror and the complete chaos of the whole experience.
قصههای بامزه کاپا از ماموریتهای عکاسیاش در جنگ جهانی دوم هم خواندنی است و هم یادآور سینمای آن دوران. روایت کاپا ادبی نیست. نوعی خاطرهنویسی است که گویا قرار هم بوده از روی آنها فیلم سینمایی ساخته شود. با این وجود کاپا یک قصهگوی ذاتی بوده. خلق صحنه و تعلیق و طنز و حتی تراژدی را بدون اینکه لوث کند بلد است. هرچند عکسهای کاپا در تضاد با این اتوبیوگرافی، تلخ و تکان دهنده هستند.
قصه‌های بامزه کاپا از ماموریت‌های عکاسی‌اش در جنگ جهانی دوم هم خواندنی است و هم یادآور سینمای آن دوران. روایت کاپا ادبی نیست. نوعی خاطره‌نویسی‌ است که گویا قرار هم بوده از روی آنها فیلم سینمایی ساخته شود. با این وجود کاپا یک قصه‌گوی ذاتی بوده. خلق صحنه و تعلیق و طنز و حتی تراژدی را بدون اینکه لوث کند بلد است. هرچند عکس‌های کاپا در تضاد با این اتوبیوگرافی، تلخ و تکان دهنده هستند.
The life of a war correspondent is far from romantic, yet Capa’s depiction of his time spent photographing the end of WWII has a certain amorous charm.
They also shared certain qualities which, if Capa were to write such a thing, could be used as an outline for what it takes to be a war correspondent.
Where other accounts of World War II often delve into depressing accounts of human suffering, death or bereavement, Capa instead spends a considerable amount of time discussing the various types of alcohol he consumes, the relationship he had with the aforementioned celebrity journalists, and his ‘lucky’ streaks at poker.
The tone is very different from similar books from the Iraq war like Generation Kill or The Forever War. This is has more of a jet set vibe as Capa hops planes to get to the front, take war photos, and then retreat back to hang out with Hemmingway or Ernie Pyle.
The book was written with the intention of it being turned into a film which may account for its rather odd humor where we are asked to sympathize with a struggling war photographer amid all the nameless soldiers who are being killed around him.

This book is about passion in a very broad sense. Robert Capa reports the World War II as a witness, responsible for maybe the most significative and important set of photographs taken during WWII. Though inserted right in the middle of this terrible moment of our history, his sense of humour and extreme humanity bring balance to a story that could be translated as an easy cliché on barbarism.
An odd read recounting Capa's thoughts on all things. A mishmash of truth and stretched truth following him on his escapades all around the globe. One of the most influential photographers of his time and of all time, his documentary work is astounding; his writing abilities could've used more practice. But he died before he could hone this second craft.
Who would know Capa had such a particular voice? His memories of life, love and war are just as great as the images he collected. A must.
این کتاب بیشتر جنبه داستانی دارد تا عکاسی و در واقع رابرت کاپا عکاس معروف جنگ، خاطرات خود را از جنگ جهانی دوم به همراه عکس هایی، در این کتاب به تصویر کشیده است.
After visiting the War Remnants Museum in Vietnam I got very interested in the life of Robert Capa and all the other war photographers so I started fishing for some autobiographies.
'Slightly Out of Focus' is a great read.
Robert Capa tells his story about photographing the 2WW, about love stories during war and about the mundane and the extraordinary events that take place in the first line of action.
It's a great, easy read for anyone who has an interest in war photography or who wants to read yet another story about life in the Second World War.
Being a photographer and history nerd this book called me instantly, the first time I read it in a couple of hours immediately after getting it, it was completely catching, and since then I've read it at least 10 times and my paperback edition is severely deformed from constant reading. Capa has a really light and catching way of taking you through the darkest times in recent human history while making you feel part of the story of this interesting young man who managed to capture humanity at it's worse.
superb
Additionally Slightly Out of Focus provides an intriguing and refreshing perspective in comparison to popular literary depictions of WWII, which are commonly told from a soldiers’ or civilian’s perspective, whilst photojournalist Robert Capa provides a nice mixture of the two.
Though as impressive as writing a book in another language is, many of the descriptions beg for a greater variation and richer vocabulary.Personally I would only recommend Capa’s memoirs if you are doing research on WWII news journalists or war photographers.
Despite how fascinating his life was, this book falls short in literary and historical worth, even as it presents a first-hand account of the war.
Quizás lo mejor esté en su vibrante recuerdo del llamado Desembarco de Normandía, y del cual sobrevivieron sólo seis de las 106 fotos que tomó (casi siempre aterrado).**********«Si en este punto de la historia mi hijo me interrumpiera para preguntar «¿Cuál es la diferencia entre un corresponsal de guerra y cualquier otra persona de uniforme?», tendría que responder que el corresponsal de guerra bebe más, liga más, gana más y tiene más libertad que un soldado, porque a esas alturas de la guerra, tener la libertad de elegir dónde estar en cada momento y tener la posibilidad de ser considerado un cobarde sin ser ejecutado por ello constituían para él una tortura.
It includes a selection of his photographs, including those he shot at enormous peril as the first Allied boats landed on D-Day - 68 years ago this week.
The concentration camps were swarming with photographers, and every new picture of horror served only to diminish the total effect.
Now, for a short day, everyone will see what happened to those poor devils in those camps; tomorrow, very few will care what happens to them in the future." Thanks to his courage and compassion, his photographs serve as a reminder about the human consequences of war.
Robert Capan värikkäät ja vauhdikkaat vaiheet tuovat mieleen romaanin - tai oikeammin sanottuna epäuskottavan romaanin, sillä tuskinpa kukaan voisi ottaa vakavasti kirjailijaa, jonka sankari ehtisi elämänsä aikana niin valokuvata kansainvälisiä kansainvälisiä prikaateja Espanjan sisällissodassa, osallistua ensimmäiseen maihinnousuaaltoon Normandiassa, kohdata Ernest Hemingwayn, Billy Wilderin ja John Steinbeckin kaltaisia kuuluisuuksia eri puolilla maailmaa kuin seurustella Ingrid Bergmanin kanssa.Capa teki kuitenkin kaikkea tätä.
WSOY 2007) kertoo unkarilaissyntyisen valokuvaajan vaiheista toisen maailmansodan aikana.
Vuosien 1942 - 1945 välillä sankarimme kulki liittoutuneitten joukkojen mukana halki Pohjois-Afrikan, Italian, Ranskan ja Saksan ja otti lukuisia historian lehdille päätyneitä valokuvia sodan kurimuksesta.
Capa kertoo sotataipaleestaan tarkkanäköisesti ja sodan mielettömyyttä kaunistelematta, mutta myös viihdyttävästi ja huumoria unohtamatta.
This is an up-close look at World War II in Europe and North Africa from the perspective of the man who practically invented war photojournalism, Robert Capa.
He also tells in a surprisingly easy tone about his status as an "enemy alien" during the war.
I knew that he was originally Hungarian, but I hadn't realized that by the time the war came around he hadn't become a citizen, and that status could be a real problem when he was trying to take photos of Allied forces on the front.
Capa is what you get when you give James Bond a camera.
But this semi-fictional, autobiographical account of Capa's exploits is a fitting addition to the lore that surrounds his outsized personality.
On the other hand, Capa's reputation as "The Greatest War Photographer in the World" is well-deserved for his work covering the conflicts before and during WWII, often risking life and limb for his pictures.
Indeed, both he and his beloved wife, Gerda Taro, died while covering conflicts.
In blending fact with fiction, Capa describes, in his somewhat halting English, the escapades that included landing on the beaches of Normandy.
you must read it; everyone must read it; it is capa’s autobiography and by god, here was a human being that existed so vividly—with such absolute, blinding intensity—that sixty-four years after he stepped on a land mine while out photographing the first indochina war his words are still more alive than most actual, living people.
the book has his photographs in it, and you must read it, really, everyone deserves to experience capa in his own words
I want more!!!!
I read it in two sittings and loved it but I want to keep reading.
Bob Capa is one of my idols so I enjoyed every line in this book but I really recommend it to anyone looking for a good adventure story.
The only disappointment for me is that in this book the war doesn't seem as horrible as it probably was.
I'm surprised that the terror of war doesn't come trough in his memoirs considering the key events Capa was involved in and how close he was to the action.
Anyways, just my personal opinion but I absolutely recommend mend this book.
Incrível!!!Robert Capa é o autor da famosa frase "Se suas fotos ainda não estão boas o suficiente, é porque você ainda não está perto o suficiente." E de fato, essa frase o representanta muito bem.
Ele, que como fotógrafo de guerra não se contentou em assistir aos fatos, pelo contrário, participava diretamente de todos eles.
Esteve no front em diversos conflitos e morreu vítima de uma mina terrestre em um deles.O texto é do próprio Capa narrando sua jornada como fotógrafo na 2° Guerra Mundial.
O tom é pessoal e divertido, contrastando com algumas fotografias fortes, que falam por si só.
Não me interessava por fotografias de guerra até ler este livro.
Romantic book about World War II from the military photographer's point of view.This book shows very interesting details of several famous military operations, which author of the book, Robert Capa, engaged in. If you are beginning your career in journalistic photography - do not read this book, otherwise it may cause your strong will to visit hot zone with your favorite camera.
Engaging account of his time photographing WW2, with all the mishaps, narrow escapes, successes and horror. Great photos accompany the stories.I have to say I'd not heard of Capa until I happened to visit the International Center of Photography in NYC (which was founded by Capa's younger brother, Cornell Capa). The main exhibit there was Robert Capa's photographs, and I decided to get his memoir in the gift shop. So glad I did.
Hogy ez a Capa milyen őrült jó fej volt! Nem elég, hogy olyan képekkel van tele ez a könyv a 2. világháborúról, amelyek bármi másnál jobban "beszélnek", de ez a fickó nem mellesleg még írni is tudott, nem is akárhogy. Egyik-másik kalandja olvasása közben potyogtak a könnyeim a nevetéstől, aztán meg a szívem szorul össze a pusztító események miatt. Aki kicsit is érdeklődik Capa élete és munkássága iránt, ki ne hagyja, kötelező olvasmány!
Beautifully and simply told, a true joy to read. The autobiographical story of a photographer, whose stories are usually told with pictures - and there are some amazing examples of this in his book - but whose lovely sense of humor, of people and stories shine in his engaging story. A war book with a love story, not so uncommon, but gently told, with a lot of heart and humor. And then again, if you read it you will find out what Alt-J's "Taro" is about. Yeap.
This is one of the most pleasurable books I've ever read. What from the cover looks to be a dated WWII autobiography about photographing a war is actually a love story. The story is almost too much to believe except that Capa's voice so is infectiously friendly that you can tell why people help him out. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED FOR ANYONE AND EVERYONE. This is one of those books I buy whenever I see for a decent price and just hand to whoever's near. They always love it.
