https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/256328.The_Apes_of_God
His works, published extensively by Black Sparrow Press, numbers perhaps 50 titles, many of them numbering well over half a thousand pages apeice; he even wrote, as his last major work a spiritual science-fiction trilogy which I pray will be published in the near future...Lastly, Wyndham Lewis unlike his contemporaries, including those like Pound and Eliot who champion his works, has over time wholly retained all the vigour initially constructed round that swirling vortex he single-handedly created, a veritable tower of Babel of achievments which will stand for centuries to come as one of the great wonders of the world of Art; and The Apes Of God, though some claim to be an elephant,ghostly white with wide red eyes, still romps through the literary jungles, levelling with terrifying stomping power all in its way, and a trailing desolation in its wake.
When Boleyn hears the word "homosexual" he blushes in agony at the horrid medical term which he does not consciously connect with the pleasure he and his former schoolmates took in dressing up in women's clothes.Zagreus sends Boleyn on a continual round of visits to artist studios and writers' salons, ostensibly to produce a journal and other documentation of the whole gimcrack world.
This mainly serves for Lewis to whet his knives on the reputations of his contemporaries, since there is a strong roman à clef component to the list of characters.
This is the third or fourth book of Lewis's I have read and I think I have cured myself of my curiosity about him as I have before with writers like William Burroughs and Ronald Firbank.
By the time you get 130 pages into a book like Ulysses, Mrs Dalloway, The Secret Agent or Living it's obvious that, difficult though they may be, you are dealing with a great work of art.
By the time I got 130 pages into this the only positive thing I could think of was at least it wasn't as difficult as I feared it might be.
The Apes of God is Wyndham Lewis' metaphysical concern with the nature of human identity in an absurd universe.
Lewis' satire in this novel is driven by the pessimism he felt about a Western society he believed was in its death throes.
Lewis' rhetorical overkill is calculated perfectly to puncture the pretensions of the reader.
Like Jonathan Swift, another master of the satirical form, Wyndham Lewis didn't have much time for human beings.
The Apes of God is one of the major pessimistic achievements of literary modernism.
this was really slow at first but it picks up a lo once it's just an endless parade of idiots that wyndham lewis didn't like. less outright funny than i expected though, probably because the people in the book aren't really people, they're weird automata that resemble people.
A chance to follow Daniel Boleyn, a young irishman makes his way around the various apes that make up the artistic set. A book which is very much a 1930's book, and mention is made of other people of the time including James Joyce and Proust.
Where Captain Beefheart gets some ideas. Human animals. Shakespearian.
The best (and bitchiest) book of the art demi monde ever writ.
satirical novel of the literary/artistic life in the 1920s...not bad but somewhat tedious and very long (over 600 pages)
Una lettura faticosaIl libro è complesso, secondo me troppo legato alla società letteraria londinese degli anni '20 del novecento, e quindi in alcuni passaggi oscuro e di difficile interpretazione. Tuttavia non mancano i momenti gradevoli e di pura satira corrosiva.Un "operatore culturale", tale Zagreus, ispirato dal misterioso Pierpoint, introduce il giovane, ebete, silezioso e perennemente arrossente Dan nella società londinese, insegnandogli a riconoscere le scimmie di dio, finti intellettuali.
I still maintain Lewis is a far more interesting writer than painter. This monumental satire is aggressively visual, full -blooded, combative: its subject matter completely dwarfed by the tremendous intellectual energy that Lewis brings to bear on it. A painter's novel in its concentration on stylistic effects and the rendering of internal states through the ruthless anatomising of external details.
I am adding a few too many books to the "read" shelf. Some are pretty obvbious. But besides bragging to myself, I do have it in mind to list titles that I love and for which I have not found many other people to appreciate 'em with me.Anyone glancing around here, please speak up if it turns out you like one of these too.
Widener PR6023.E97 A85 1981
Awesome!
High brow lit. Typically raised and held up by the pompous.
