https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338590.Tarzan_and_the_Forbidden_City
Tarzan cared little for the fate of adventurer Brian Gregory, drawn to the legendary city of Ashair by the rumor of the Father of Diamonds, the world's hugest gem. But to the ape-man the tie of friendship was unbreakable, and Paul d'Arnot's pleas moved him to agree to guide the expedition Gregory's father and sister organized for his rescue.
Another great Tarzan novel with various groups of people moving in all directions, and Tarzan intervening at just the right moment to save the day in virtually every chapter. This book also offers a surprise ending, though easily guessed. An ideal book to read when you just want to relax and get a way.
Late Tarzan.Started off well - adventuring through the jungle, wrestling lions and apes etc - the usual Tarzan stuff.Eventually we get to the forbidden city (cities - there are two) and it slowly turned into farce. People kept getting captured, escaping, running around a bit, getting captured again by someone else, escaping, running around abit..... By the last few pages I'd lost track of who was where and just wanted it to be finished. I think E.R.B. had run out of ideas or just didn't care.
This one contains the usual generic plots but with the bonus of Tarzan taking the action underwater, which was a really creative touch, but with the demerit of not having Little Nkima. I would not have found this one to be one of my favorites except for the bittersweet knowledge that I have read my last Tarzan, and thus I savored every word of it, like that last slice of pizza before starting a diet. This series has been quite a wild ride and I am heartbroken to have to leave the jungle and the noble apeman. *sob*
A good adventure story with an ironic ending. This would most likely appeal to teenage boys and young men. While the number of troubles Tarzan and his group go through left me saying "enough already" at times, I still was interested in how it would all play out in the end.
This time it’s with Tarzan (Jane’s disappeared from the storyline again)The good guys are trying to find their son and brother: Brian Gregory (who amazingly looks like Tarzan: again).
Atan Thome may be a bad guy but I like him.
I’m starting to be glad there’s only a few of books left of this series so I can get it over with.
Though the underwater elements are original.Footnote: 1) “I’ll get you and your dirty monkey-man, too’.
“I’ll get you and your little dog too’.
Wonder if the writer of the movie read this book?
If you've read the book that started all of this - and if you haven't, why haven't you - then you will recognize Lieutenant Paul d'Arnot as the brave Frenchman that Tarzan rescued in Tarzan of the Apes and who then introduces him to civilization.
The son, Brian Gregory, was on an expedition looking for a huge diamond known as the father of diamonds and Papa Gregory has come with his beautiful 19-year-old daughter, Helen, to try to find and rescue him.
d'Arnot was in his twenties in the first Tarzan book and in the meantime Tarzan and Jane have borne and raised a son and are grandparents.
His son, Brian Gregory, disappeared in the African country while looking for the fabled "Father of Diamonds." Tarzan agrees to lead the expedition to find Gregory's lost son, and together with D'Arnot, the fetching Helen Gregory, and a mix of rascally crew, they embark on the adventure.
The introduction of new characters and the way Burroughs eventually connects them with Tarzan is enjoyable.
There is a plot convention that gets predictable after a while, but you would have to be a Tarzan reader to notice it.
http://nwhyte.livejournal.com/2276948.html[return][return]This is a fairly rambling quest story of lost Europeans and sacred jewels in hidden cities (there are actually two of them, not one as implied in the title).
It may have seemed familiar to me because it was adapted as the fourth episode of the animated Tarzan, Lord of the Jungle show which I watched as a child.
But it originated as an adaptation by Burroughs, in six parts under the title The Red Star of Tarzan, in Argosy earlier in 1938, of a radio story by Rob Thompson, Tarzan and the Diamond of Asher, whose 39 episodes can be found here.
One of those stories which sums Tarzan up, in any medium.
Edgar Rice Burroughs was caught in something of a rut with Tarzan by the time this book was published.
Many of the tropes are dusted down and wheeled out again- a look alike Tarzan, a lost city (actually TWO lost cities which only adds to the confusion), a beautiful but deadly, psychopathic queen, etc.
Lots of things happen, plot devices are set up and then just...
That said, after hearing how bad this book is, I was expecting a lot worse.
For the casual reader it may come across as standard Tarzan pulp fare but, to the initiated- a disappointing entry.
Tarzan and the Forbidden City, the 20th in the series, is by the numbers Tarzan: relative goes missing in Africa, kidnapping by apes, kidnapping by cannibals, a subsequent carousel of kidnapping, lion stabbing, a crypto-civilization with two warring factions, arena blood sport, and so forth.The thing that keeps it from sitting at the bottom of the barrel like Jungle Tales of Tarzan or Tarzan Triumphant is that when they finally do get to the titular forbidden city there is some rather imaginative and action packed scenarios.
Imagine Tarzan and company in underwater diving suits in a battle to the death with a school of giant carnivorous horned sea horses.
BOOK 21 IN THE TARZAN SERIESERB adaptation of a 1934 radio serial"Tarzan And The Diamond Of Asher" by Rob ThompsonSerialized as"The Red Star Of Tarzan" in Argosy Weekly, March 19—April 23, 1938First Book Edition—September 1938In other words, ERB adapted a Tarzan story by another writer in another medium.
Perhaps this is why the book's pace is nearly unrelentingly frenetic, with lots of characters, subplots, and detours along the way, in parts almost too convoluted to easily follow.
I would like to hear the radio serial to see how close the book is to it.

Only my second Tarzan book. Much more violent than the movies. Tarzan helps a group of folks find the missing Brian Gregory who has disappeared while searching for the legendary Father of Diamonds. The first half was good fun, especially the plot point that Tarzan was a look-alike for Brian, but the last half becomes incoherent, with members of the group being separated, captured, escaping, repeat, and the look-alike gimmick is completely ignored.
I have read all 24 of the Tarzan books. Read dates are from the mid 1970s through 1982. I thoroughly enjoyed all of the Tarzan books. They made a great escape from high school and college. I still have all 24 books and they are at the top of my book shelf. I thought it was pretty neat to find the actual covers listed on Goodreads and there are no barcodes on the books, plus the cover price ranged from $1.50-1.95 for each book.
There is a lot of fun stuff in here (as is the case with any ERB novel, especially "Tarzan"). But the narrative became disjointed and convoluted towards the second half of the book. Overall, I enjoyed it, but the "lost city" premise was done much better in an earlier book, "Tarzan" #10, the irresistible, fast-paced "Tarzan and the Lost Empire".
Not one of the best ones, but Tarzan's first and best friend, Paul d'Arnot makes a reappearance. D'Arnot and Tarzan join a safari to search for the missing Brian Gregory, together with Gregory's father and his beautiful sister, Helen. A rival safari believes they are looking for the priceless Father of Diamonds and tries to thwart them at every turn, by fair means or foul.
Tarzan and the Forbidden City (Tarzan #20) by Edgar Rice Burroughs (Ballantine 1938) (Fiction). Tarzan is mistaken for another adventurer during a search for a huge diamond between warring cities. My rating; 7/10, finished 1973.
Big ERB fan... but haven't actually read any Tarzan, wanted to jump right into the "discovering lost cities" era of Tarzan novels since I've absorbed Tarzan of the Apes in various forms. Hasn't disappointed.
This book was very similar to other Tarzan books that I had read, so much so in fact, that at times I wondered if I hadn't read the book before.
The most farcical of the adventures yet. Girls keep getting captured by evil tribes, gorillas and cannibals. Tarzan helps hunt for a missing American and ends up under water.
read some time in 1986
I'm a huge Tarzan fan--got hooked on my grandma's original hardback copies. Besides the first one, this is one of my favorite stories.
I liked this one quite a lot. I'm kind of a sucker for lost cities and civilizations.
A GOOD read!
Tämä oli minulla aikoinaan SE Tarzan, jota piti lukea yhä uudelleen. Miksiköhän? Viehättikö piilossa olevat sivilisaatiot niin paljon - historian ja arkeologian innostuksen alkuja kuitenkin
Tarzan Book 20
Even at 13 I knew this wasnt a good Tarzan novel.
This is possibly the worst of the Tarzan books. The characterization is more like the Tarzan of the movies than the one from the earlier books.
