https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96110.Vietnam
Curiously lacking from what I humbly perceive to be a wide-ranging selection of topics, are books about the Vietnam War. To be sure, I have three books about Dien Bien Phu, the famous final battle of the First Indochina War. But I only owned one volume concerning America’s involvement, and that book had sat unread on my shelf for over twenty years and ten different residences.
There are certainly better and more energetic books about the First Indochina War (I’m thinking, here, of Bernard Fall).
(Obviously, Karnow was not reporting from Vietnam during the time of Monsignor Pierre Joseph Georges Pigneau de Behaine).
As for me, I prefer to eat French shit for five years than eat Chinese shit for the rest of my life." On the morning of June 11, 1963, a 66 year old Buddhist monk named Quang Duc set himself on fire.
It is interesting to note that Communist leaders think they miscalculated the Tet offensive.
Vietcong motto: "When the head passes through, the tail will follow easily." By 1972, only 6,000 of 70,000 American troops remaining in Vietnam were combat soldiers.
Communist General Tran Van Tra wrote a fabulous book about leading forces in the south, but he was purged for disagreeing with the North.
This book was written by a journalist who covered Asia from 1959 thru 1974.
Due to his honest, thorough reporting of the Vietnam War, he gained a place on Nixon's "Master List of Nixon's Political Opponents".
He began writing this book in the 1980's and, as part of his research, interviewed many of the key players on both sides of the conflict.
It's a very well written book and a great overview of the war.
If you are interested in a general understanding of the conflict, especially the political decision-making that occurred, this book would be well worth considering.
It was enlightening to read the North Vietnamese perspective.The first half of the book was slow going for me providing a history of Vietnams struggle for independence and the difficulty the French had in trying to maintain it as a colony.
Karnow was able to flesh him out and I have a found a great respect for the man, who worked so hard for an independent country.The book began moving along for me during the sixties when I was growing up.
Karnow presents a spectacular historical look at the War in Vietnam and how things got out of hand for numerous US Administrations.
A major gaffe for Presidents Johnson and Nixon, Vietnam surely ruined their administrations, as greedy inebriated them with a splash of power.Karnow does not stand on the sidelines and simply lament the losses from a US perspective, he gives as full a picture as he can, using interviews with many on both sides of the war to better illustrate what was going on inside the war rooms, in the jungles, and within the Oval Office.
The book at times feels more like a collection of dispatches from a reporter in the field (which Karnow was in Vietnam) rather than the work of a historian who has integrated fact and theory based on deep understanding and research.
The internal politics of North Vietnam are ignored as much as possible.As an example of Karnow's strange views: "In May 1959, the North Vietnamese leadership created a unit called Group 559, its task to begin enlarging the tradtional communist infiltration route, the Ho Chi Minh Trail, into the south." Group 559 in reality launched an invasion of Laos putting a large part of the territory of that counry under Vietnamese rule which continues on even now.
At around 270,000 words, Stanley Karnow’s Vietnam – A History is something of a monster, as is its subject.
And yet a greater tonnage of explosives was dropped in the Vietnam War than in all the Second World War’s theatres of conflict combined.
And, it has to be remembered, this culture did lead – though perhaps indirectly – to the near impeachment and actual removal from office of an elected US President.Stanley Karnow’s book captures the conflict ideologically, historically and politically.
Alongside Gabriel Kolko’s book on the same subject, it ought to be required reading for anyone left in the world who thinks that war can solve conflict.
Based on research Karnow had conducted for a multipart, award-winning television documentary, it is too focused on the United States to constitute a real history of Vietnam.
Finally, although he mentions the book as a source, Karnow fails to discuss the material covered in McCoy's The Politics of Heroin in Southeast Asia, particularly the economic importance of the drug trade for sustaining, if not motivating, much of American foreign policy.On the positive side, however, Karnow did have substantial on-the-ground experience working as a journalist in Vietnam and did interview many of the Vietnamese principals, North and South.
A more accurate subtitle for this book might be 'A Political History.' Nonetheless epic, Karnow manages to chronicle the conflicts that culminated with the North Vietnamese takeover of Saigon in 1975 with impressive narrative clarity.
For anyone hoping to make sense of how the undeclared Vietnam war came about and eventually unraveled, this is essential reading (and Karnow makes no bones about it: intractable political egos were largely to blame).
However, the more harrowing conflicts on the ground are minimized or largely glossed (Hamburger Hill, for instance, merits only a single paragraph), so at times the actual war feels like a distant backdrop for the bloodless battles raging in Washington.
I found the earlier parts of the book more fascinating, the long history of Vietnam, its culture and rulers and politics and the unfortunate legacy of constant conquest and invasion.
It's a history that most Americans still do not know anymore than they do when they stumble into other countries that have also had long histories of outside occupation.
Still, this is a fair and balanced book; a good place to start to learn about this country and the great war that defined it in the 20th century.
The Vietnamese rebelled against the Japanese and continued to rebel past the official end of the second World War. Many of these factions united under the banner of Communism, but their mission was autonomy for Vietnam and ending the oppressive colonial practices.
The US funded France's efforts to hold onto their Asian colony, but eventually the French were defeated, and a peace conference in Geneva negotiated a ceasefire which split the country into North and South, similar to Korea.The US funded and defended the government in the South, under president Diem, while the Soviet Union and China gave aid to the North, under Ho Chi Minh.
Karnow begins with the earliest colonial era in Indochina, and takes you all the way up to the last helicopter leaving Saigon.
I learned many things I hadn't understood at all before - how deep French cultural roots ran in Viet Nam, role of Catholics, Buddhists et al, the "loss" of China as precedent, and the extreme feebleness of the various governments in the South.
And most importantly how early US planners understood the war was hopeless and how difficult it was to reverse years of foreign policy posturing under the white-hot glare of domestic politics in the Cold War era.
The author has a mature but never cynical position which not surprisingly exposes the unprincipled actions of the few that created suffering for the many.Only one thing about this book shocked me - the resonance and even clear parallels with actions in our own decade with the US offensive in Iraq.
The book exposes a litany of distortion, censorship and outright lying for US domestic political purposes, as well as abduction and 'rendition' of prisoners; it's all too easy to assume that the same approaches are equally active today.
When I asked an expert for the best book about Vietnam, this is the one he recommended. It is great. It has the full sweep and pageantry of history. However, if you are the type of person who gets a headache when they watch a country do something incredibly stupid in slow motion, then DON'T read this book.
The social bits are still in there, they just enhance the other picture instead of taking over the book.Points he made that really impressed me: drug addiction among the troops, the economic and social effect of having an American military operation in Saigon for decades, the personal and political intrigues in both the US and Vietnam, the distrust between the Soviet Union, China and Vietnam, how the expat Vietnamese were treated in Cambodia, how the war changed over the years, the sheer duration of Vietnam's struggle for independence (Karnow takes the history back to the age of explorers and French missionary activity in SE Asia), how both inflated ideas of success and failure of the military actions on both sides were corrected by dispassionate review decades later...
I think this is a great starting point for anyone really interested in understanding how South East Asia become one of the most important moments in the history of a country so far removed from its shores.
And a good start for anyone interested in understanding an important moment in time.
This is very thorough and well-written history of Vietnam, although it is largely presented in the context of America's involvement in the Vietnam War. While there is some great background about Vietnam's deeper history and a good overview of the French involvement in Indochina, this book's strength lies in the incredible information provided about the political and military decisions and actions of the U.S., the South Vietnam regimes, the Viet Cong, and the North Vietnam government.
For anyone who was alive at the time, this will provide a great deal of important background information to the way the war was presented at home.
The concluding line of the Goodreads/publisher's blurb, "Vietnam: A History puts events and decisions into such sharp focus that we come to understand – and make peace with – a convulsive epoch of our recent history," does a fair job of summing up the work for me.
A half century later it is probably fair to ask how much, if anything, has been learned from the Vietnam experience in the interim.
Certainly the lessons are held up for review at virtually any prospect of the nation applying military force, but it seems mostly that the lessons are ignored or vigorously disputed as wrong.One could learn almost as much, in the end, from reading only the early chapters on Vietnam before the '60s.
Beginning with an informative history of Vietnam that goes back centuries and ending very abruptly with the fall of Saigon in 1975, this bulky tome predominantly deals with the internal disputes and intrigues within the United States government during America's involvement (administrations from Eisenhower to Ford). And that tends to be repetitious, and often not very interesting. A huge portion of this book details Lyndon Johnson's dealings. Only approximately 80 pages at the end focus on Nixon, which I found surprising. Published in 1982, I'm sure better books on the conflict have been written since.
Although I only started reading this for a history project, I loved to just keep reading it even though I didn’t need it anymore for the project. This book talked about how tough the Vietnam war was on soldiers and civilians. Powerful book that shows accurate descriptions with first hand accounts of what happened.*only read up to page 595*
Which is something I keep saying every time I review the book on military history that I've just voluntarily read.
My father has recently graduated from the University of Michigan Law School and my mother is learning how to be an American housewife.
My mother is lying on the couch with an arm flung over her face and a letter crushed to her chest.
I am stunned and sit on the floor next to the couch with no idea what's happening.
"What's wrong?" or "Why are you crying?" perhaps.
Somehow she sobs out that the communists have taken her father.
and was this the question of Vietnam, of our time, of post-war USA, or what?
Karnow had arrived in Vietnam in 1959, so unfortunately the book is a sort of narcisstic mood piece, covering 1959 - 1965 for some 400 pages before we get 280 pages of the height of the war.
historigraphically speaking, of course an author should be praised for covering prior history, and simply because there is no other Vietnam War history of the same repute, we should not complain about too much preliminaries, but for the war analyst, it is sort of very heavy on politics and government minutiae.
I've had this book on my shelf for years, and every time I would hear a newsman or politician draw parallels between the Vietnam War and our latest international entanglements I would think, "I really need to read that book..." It is clear that this conflict of 40 years ago has a great impact on foreign policy decisions of today, and I've always felt that my understanding of current affairs was compromised by my foggy notions about the Vietnam War.Having spent a week studying this 700-page "monumental narrative" (per back of book), I can't say that the fog in my mind is completely cleared.
To say the story is complex is the ultimate understatement, but Karnow deftly wades into the historical tangle – denser than any jungle and packed with political and military players -- and with incredible skill, disentangles the events, motivations, and miscalculations – offering a remarkably clear history of the Vietnam War, its fundamental causes, and major protagonists.It is a monumental text and, more importantly, immensely readable despite its depth, breadth and the complexity of its subject matter.It is, though, a political history, and while the prosecution of the war and lives of the soldiers who fought in it are certainly not ignored, this is far from a military history.
A good book, giving an overview history from the first missionaries to the North Vietnamese/Vietcong taking Saigon.
It doesn't say either side was right, and gives information about how many missed opportunities there were to stop the war from happening.
One such bias is that I get the distinct impression that Stanley Karnow was no fan of Nixons (which isn't surprising since he was on Nixon's list of enemies) and is not as impressed by Kissenger as many others.Whilst this book has it faults, which includes a lack of maps, it is a very good place to start if you are interested in Vietnam and the Vietnam War.
It’s actually a good thing that whenever a potential global conflict now occurs that the U.S. will, or might, get involved in, that the question always comes up “Will this be another Vietnam?” So sadly, the war became a very painful, yet probably necessary, lesson for the United States to learn.The hardest part about reading this book was the monosyllable Asian names of the main players.
It's not in the United States section, it is in the Vietnam section since a war is something that happens to a country, it is not perpetrated by a country.
A war happens at a place, to a people.
This long view that ends with the fall of Saigon starts way back with Vietnam on the fringes of Napoleon III's empire and on through post-WW II France handing over a struggle to a United States espousing its domino theory.
Well, at least the part struggled that was ideological, not so much the corrupt and craven leadership of Southern Vietnam...
This is a comprehensive history of Vietnam by Stanley Karnow, a historian (died 2013) who is viewed as somewhat to the left of others such as Michael Lind (my reviews passim).
So, US covert forces were colluding with Vietnamese communists to drive out the French, while its overt forces were helping France battle to hold on in Indochina.
Also, like many Americans of all political stances, Karnow did not view Great Britain as heroic in World War II, as I was brought up to believe we were, fighting on alone (but for the mighty USSR) after France collapsed and the smaller European nations either were overrun or changed sides.
The Viet Nam war was in the backdrop of my childhood, and now as an adult working in a VA hospital it's around me once again.
I've read a number of memoirs and other books on the subject but I am so glad that I finally read up on the course of events, and this book is the definitive history on Viet Nam, especially the French and the American wars there.
Spoiler alert: the wars don't go well for France, USA, or for Viet Nam. Tragic, really tragic in so many ways.
A comprehensive, well-written, non-partisan account of one of the most painful and divisive episodes in our brief history as a nation.
Everything you ever wanted to know about a war everyone would like to forget, and one which has forever changed our historical path, casting doubt on American judgement, American power and American justice.
I can't say that I loved this book.
but I will say that it was necessary like an unpleasant medicine.
If you're tired of the rhetoric, the right vs.
left fictionalized truths, and simply want to know in unadulterated fashion what happened then you should read this book
