https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1241415.A_Stone_for_Danny_Fisher
When I was a kid growing up in Danny's Brooklyn I enjoyed the references to places and things and people I knew.
Still, any adult and most teenagers knew what was being described.The book is narrated by Danny himself from beyond the grave, as it opens with his family gathered at his gravesite, and so there is no doubt as to his end, only how he got there.
The stone in the title refers to the Jewish practice of placing a common stone atop the grave of someone departed, as a sort of way of registering that you have been there, and a sort of remembrance.
From that point, Danny finds hate and love, and kindness and meanness.
I don't know how many times I've read this book over the years.
I first read it when very young so I guess that has made it special because it affected me more than either the writing or the story ought to deserve.
But this tale, like 'Of Human Bondage' has a place in my heart because the characters spoke to me and showed me the power of writing when I was young and impressionable.
I have just finished it again and still enjoyed it.Of its time it was a five star read and remains so for me today.
I read a few of Harold Robbins' more commercial, salacious novels from the late seventies, yet hadn't thought of him in years.
But this novel is an entirely different animal: this is 1950s cinéma vérité with a heavy dose of Robbins melodrama thrown in for good measure.A Stone For Danny Fisher is a brutal coming-of-age story covering both The Great Depression and WWII eras.
But Danny is too clever for his own good, and has a serious tragic flaw that always propels his happiness just out of his reach.There were moments that I had to stop listening to this story because it became too intense, too real.
I have to admit that I was a big Harold Robins fan in my 20's. I really liked most of his books. They are all Pulp Fiction & very risque for thier day. A Stone for Danny Fisher stands out tho. I recently reread this & it was as powerful now as it was. Not too much pulp fiction stands the test of time, but this one does.
What a book!
I remember reading this book when I was in college and being consumed by it.
So when I found it on Kindle, I could not help but buy and read it all over again.
Forty-plus years later I could not put the book down, until I finished the last page.
I found myself tearing up once more when Danny loses his beloved dog Rexie.
I found myself experiencing anguish all over again at the blows that life deals this talented boxer.
Danny could have gone on to become a celebrated boxer but instead has to constantly fight poverty.
I suppose Mr Robbins background at Universal Pictures made it a dead cert that this book would be made into a film called “King Creole” starring Elvis Presley.
Interestingly, the Wall Street Journal stated that"Robbins's books are packed with action, sustained by a strong narrative drive, and given vitality by his own colorful life." Recommended but not if you are having a bad day.
FCN: Danny Fisher (poor boy making good by means of his talent for boxing), Sam Goetlib (mentor, coach and backer)
I read this in high school back when God was a boy! My high school had a huge population of Jewish kids and this was the big book everybody who read was reading at the time!I did not figure out the stone part in the title until Schindlers List!I do remember it being a page turner to me. Probably because next to Peyton Place,it was the most grown up fiction I had read.
It was a fascinating and compelling story with an unexpected twist (at least it was for me). I would have never even thought about reading this if my 63 year old mother said it was one of her favorite books when she was my age. It's not my favorite book but it's definitely on the top of my list.
I first encountered Harold Robbins on the shelves of people for whom I was babysitting. I devoured whatever I found, figuring I finally was going to learn something practical, realistic, and useful about sex. I was mistaken.
I never tire of rereading Harold Robbins' books especially 'A Stone For Danny Fisher'!
Harold Robbins wrote two kinds of books,some very good and some totally trashy.A Stone for Danny Fisher is an intense, poignant story about Depression era New York,the city he knew so well.He was such a fine writer in his early phase.Too bad that the quality of his writing deteriorated a good deal later on as he sought easy commercial success.
The Elvis movie, King Creole, was loosely based on this book and the part of Danny Fisher (a boxer) was originally intended for James Dean, but due to Dean's untimely death, the movie was scrapped for a while until it was rewritten to fit Elvis (a singer).
King Creole was also Elvis's favorite movie and the last movie he made before his 2 year stint in the army.
Well, anyway, I digress, but this is how I came to read 'A Stone For Danny Fisher' and loved it.
Set between the years 1925 to 1944, the story tells of the hardship of growing up and surviving in New York during the depression era leading up to WW2.
Crime, racketeering, black marketeering, gangs and poverty - all woven intricately into the story.Written in 1952, a movie called called King Creole starring Elvis Presley was made in 1958.
Having watched several snippets of the movie on YouTube I would say the movie is based loosely on the book!Regardless of it's age I really enjoyed the book though I personally did not enjoy the ending.
I was 14, who never really loved to read and it was the first time when while reading I started to coexist with the characters, I still remember their faces, even though the book had not a single illustration in it.
As for now, I don’t know if my feelings for this book would be the same if I reread it..I prefer to leave it untouched on the shelf.Totally recommend it to everyone and wish you to see the faces of the characters in this book about Danny Fisher.
I am not a huge fan of Harold Robbins.
But when I heard someone say two books of Harold Robbins were par excellence; I couldn’t resist picking up one among them, “A Stone for Danny Fisher”.
A few pages into the book, the tale takes quick turns and has one completely glued in.
The last few pages play on the emotions so much; I for one just couldn’t carry on.
The story is all about a sensational amateur boxer Danny Fisher, who gets bitterly involved with the underworld mafia.
I gave four stars, which I feel, the book truly deserves.
I needed this break from the heavy stuff that I have been reading lately.
I did have my misgivings when I started the book since Harold Robbins is mostly associated with fiction of the pulp risque sort.
While he dabbles in the mean seedy crooked underworld to make ends meet, he remains essentially the sweet regular guy who dotes on his girl and aspires to regain the love of his estranged father.Never a dull moment; it is a story which is timeless in appeal.
I blush to think how many Harold Robbins books I read 30 years ago. They were all pretty racy, to say the least. I remember this one being the best of the bunch. It actually was a very compelling story.
I like Harold Robbins... He writes the best trash ever.
First time I read this I was a teenager. Have read it many times since then, and it simply felt as if it was time to crack the back again. It never withers, the story remains.
In the right hands, the story could become a movie that eclipses the book.
(I think there might already be a movie, but I don't know how good it is.) Although ASFDF was easy to read, I wouldn't classify it as a beach book.
The story line is too dark, and Danny's predicaments and behavior are too frustrating.
I know the dog symbolizes something--security, home, or whatever.
What about the stone?The author bookended the main story with the philosophical and theological musings of posthumous Danny Fisher.
I had trouble reconciling that Danny Fisher with the one seen in the rest of the book.
There were too many stereotypes, and it seemed like a run-of-the-mill book.
It was only after around half way point that the book picked up and got some depth.
He's simply a bad guy and that's about it) and had enough to keep me going back to the book.
I liked how it zoomed into the greater issue and showed it in a very relatable way.
I particularly liked how the book ended, especially the lastest line, a quote by Thomas Campbell - "To live in the hearts we leave behind is not to die."It was a good one time read, but nothing out of the ordinary.
Harold Robbins has a reputation for writing "trash" and "smut" and he did write some books that may be labelled as such, but he also wrote some great books, with good storiess, believable characters with quite a lot of depth, novels that keep you turning the pages not because there's a lot of action but because you really care about the charcters.
Perhaps not his best, but certainly a good read.
Recommended.Trivia: The Elvis movie King Creole was loosely based on this book, although the setting was changed from New York to New Orleans and Danny Fisher is a singer (what else) in the movie instead of a boxer as in the book.(Review from August 2012)

If you have discounted Harrold Robbins books as frivolous think again.
This is definitely not a light-hearted read.
It is the story of Danny Fisher, born into poverty just before the depression hit in the 1930's.
It follows his life as he becomes a boxer against his father's wishes, loves a catholic girl against his mother's and defies the gang who pay him to throw a fight - the winning of which will bring him fame and, in his hopes, the approval of his dad.
Bearing in mind that I read this over 20 years ago and can still quote from it, it indicates the depth of the impression this story left me with.
I give it 5 stars because it was a book when I read it as a teenager.
It's about a young man that wants to be more than anything in life to be a champion boxer but things go terribly wrong and doesn't much change through the book.
The title is based on biblical scripture found in Luke 11:11 that says, "But of whom of you that is a father shall a son ask bread, and the father shall give him a stone?" I was very much touched by this book as a teenager.
This is definitely a book written in the 70's and the characterisation feels a little cliched but for all that I enjoyed it again for the 2nd time.
I read this about 30 old years ago and was still able to remember certain elements of the story, which I think speaks to the quality of the narrative.
The main character, Danny Fisher, always appears much older than he actually is.
I re-read this after coming across the title in another novel where a character was reading it.
It is a relevant piece of fiction for its time.
A bit melodramatic. The grinding poverty and the rackets of the Lower East Side again. Danny Fisher can't catch a break. Boxing, gambling, business, family and friends all fail him. He turns pretty much unsympathetically bad towards the end, but he has a change of heart for the better at the last minute, but by that time it's too late. Jews and Catholics, life and death, but mostly money. If there's a moral here I can't make it out. Makes the whole world seem evil and unforgiving. Yet it was comulsively readable in that trashy bestseller way.
a young jewish boy in New York during the depression. He grows up estranging his father by becoming a prize fighter. Errors in judgement and immaturity lands him in trouble with the mob. He manages to stay one step ahead of everyone in spite of setbacks that come close to costing him dearly. Overall he is a good fellow who can't seem to grow up. The story is a bit sappy at the end but a good read overall.
Found this to be an excellent book, well written and very introspective. I know that I reflected on it for several weeks after, and was nearly brought to tears while reading it. If you have not read this book, it is worth it! My mother gave it to me to read, and it passes the test for books that don't get old.
Audiobook. My tolerance for melodrama is less than when I first read this book in high school apparently! But I still enjoyed listening to this again. I loved most of the characters except Danny's wife Nellie. OMG, what a whiner! She was forever crying, worried, or about to faint dead away. I could have done without her.
