https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/117152.The_Influence_Of_Sea_Power_Upon_History_1660_1783
(The Battle of the Atlantic might be seen as a condemnation of this rule, but I imagine Mahan might argue that the failure to actually hamper the British—and American—navies gave them the ability to find a way to destroy U-Boats and end "The Happy Time".)Mahan covers the most of height of the Age of Sail in his book, from the Restoration of Charles II to the end of the Revolutionary War, after an extended chapter that looks at naval power throughout history.
Despite being over a hundred years old, Mahan's classic text on the importance of sea power in wartime is both accessible to the modern reader and applicable to modern naval thinking.
Mahan takes the reader on a whirlwind tour of the wars between the years 1660 and 1783, focusing on the role that sea power played in all of them.
The other is his use of racial theories in his introductory chapter pointing out why certain countries fared better than others in terms of sea power.
This edition of the work is very good and is a very interesting read.
Strategically, many of Mahan's conclusions still apply today, even though he was writing with an eye to advocating for a larger navy and these conclusions are much more difficult to execute in the 21st century's shrinking U.S. Navy.
Mahan's emphasis on the navy leaves out the fact that we live on land, and the navy is at best a strategic adjunct.
It is possible to read only those chapters of the work and still come away with a solid feel for Mahan's strategic vision.
It is not often that one can credibly claim to read a book that started a world war.
Granted, Germany would have sought her "place in the sun" if Admiral Mahan had never been born; however, the race to match the British in capital ships ignited in Germany by "Influence" strained Anglo-German relations and gave the Entente Cordiale between France and Britain (and eventually the Triple Entente) space to grow.This book is truly aimed at the naval historian.
For the rest of us, Admiral Mahan's argument is clear even if one skips the desciptions of illustrative naval engagements from history that Mahan supplies.
If you are interested in military strategy, and especially naval strategy and history, this is an important book to know about. I can see why it was so important historically, especially given the timing of its appearance. The actual argument, however, is not as clear as you might think and there is an aspect of overselling to this. That is OK - it is good to read one of the classics anyway.
His theory of the necessity of capital ships convinced both President Roosevelts, the German navy and the Japanese navy, changing the build up and disposition of fleets in WWI and WWII.Why I started this book: I was thrilled to find this book on Audible and downloaded it immediately.
I was eager to see why a book written in 1890 was just added back on the Navy's Recommended Reading List.Why I finished it: It was fascinating to learn about 1660-1783 battles and how they shaped the colonization of the Americas, Africa and India.
I found out about this book from "The proud tower". It was described as having a serious effect on governmental thinking, so I wanted to see what was it about.It wasn't easy, as the book is from the 1800s and the language is different in subtle and not-so-subtle ways. Also, there are a lot of descriptions of sea-battles, which don't really match the title.Otherwise, it's a good point/theory of exercising international power and some parts of it can be seen to be followed even today (although his ideas about commerce-stopping warfare were debunked by submarine warfare).

Very insightful, and with lots of great analysis. Captain Mahan knows an unbelievable amount about history.Unfortunately, the book is really hard to read, mostly because the book is written in the 19th century (although it reads as if it was written in the 16th), but also because Mahan tends to skip around a lot and make convoluted arguments. For example, the chapter dedicated to the Anglo-Dutch conflict in the 17th century devotes a lot of time to the French-Indian war of the late 18th century and the state of the Spanish navy in the 16th century.
It is thick, it is dense at times with discussions of sailing ships and tactics related to sailing ships, it covers battles about as well known to the reading public today as some of the ancient Asian naval engagements were of the folks in the 1890s when the book was written.The big theme of this book is showing how European history for the French, Dutch, Spanish and English was influenced over a 123 yr period by various naval engagements.
Mahan was a career naval officer (Captain), Naval Academy graduate, and lecturer at the U.S. Naval War College.The book is not and never was written for the general interest reader (like me).
The reader must have an in-depth knowledge of European Wars (particularly naval actions) of the book's time frame.
The book is dense, repetitive, and its prose is not very good.
Except for descriptions of naval engagements, which I found informative, I skimmed a good deal of the book.
To be fair, though I have the benefit of hindsight.I would only recommend this book to those highly interested in Mahan or his subject.
Historian Alfred Thayer Mahan conveyed Hawaii’s strategic position as “a sea frontier” and “coaling station” in 1890, helping to solidify arguments for annexation to the United States later in the decade.
Though well over a century old, and definitely canted toward proving Mahan's theories on the value of sea power, this still provides excellent strategic, operational, and tactical analyses of the majors European and imperial naval operations of the period.
Considering its influence and popularity among policy makers in the 19th and 20th century, it is rather surprisingly not a particularly focused exposition of the premise attributed to it by later historians.
Sea commerce protected by sea power had permitted England to bankroll land armies fielded by allies in European wars.3.
While cruising warfare such as privateering that was favored by France damaged English commerce, it failed spectacularly to weaken her to the point of defeat.5.
It wasn't just America's weak condition and lack of readiness for war at that time.This book, intended to explain the influence of navies on history, is quite educational and a good read.
The book's first copyright was in 1890 by Alfred Thayer Mahan.
The copyright was transferred to Ellen Lyle Mahan in 1918 which eventually fell to the publisher who has published twelve editions of this book.
These aspects not only allow the reader insight and virtually unheard of detail about the various battles discussed but also a view of how those campaigns were viewed in the original author's time.
Unfortunately, these same aspects make this book somewhat cumbersome.
Thus, the reader's knowledge gradually grows as the book progresses making it difficult to look up details on a particular change of technology or a specific campaign.
Alfred Thayer Mahan was the son of a famous U.S. Army officer, Dennis Hart Mahan, who taught many years as a professor at West Point.
Mahan's book, describing the importance of naval power in Western history, was very influential for some time after it was written.
In America, both presidents named Roosevelt read the book and each made sure that the Unites States continued to have a strong navy, which was particularly important during World War II.
For understanding how seapower helped England's rise to world power status, and the lessons drawn from that especially in the first half of the 20th century, this book is crucial.
My favorite area of study is British naval history, so I am slightly biased in my opinions.
I was interested to read this because it's from an American historian's perspective and was written before the United States was a major sea power.
Very difficult book to read and I would only recommend it to students of history or one who has a serious interest in European naval history.
The author made some very good points about the influence of naval power on history, but I think it was more about the influence that British naval power had on history.
Clinical in its description and analysis of how the sea power influenced the multitude of wars between England and mainly France, Spain and Netherlands in the course of the 17th and 18th centuries.
Written at the and of the 19th century, it was a major educational book for naval officers right until second world war profoundly changed the way we look at naval power.
Still, some of it lessons, especially concerning the need to actively engage enemy naval forces instead of using the navy just to protect some ulterior motives remains as true today as it was 100, 200 or 300 years ago.
Fantastic read.
This is one of many books written by an expert for experts under the guise of popularization. If you do not know all the people and places and history that Mahan refers to, he's not very interested. But on the other hand, he's trying to relate such a basic thesis that it's hard to believe that it was very interesting or people who did know all of the British and French admirals stretching back three centuries. Maybe it would have been better if this version had included all the maps and illustrations in the original?
A masterpiece of naval military history, few books have had as sharp and immediate an impact as this. A primary reason for aspiring world powers (think US, Germany & Japan) to focus on building superior navies headed into the 20th century and towards WWI (and repeated in WWII), this is simply one of the most influential military books ever written. One reason is the masterful skill which which the evidence is presented and evaluated and another is the brilliant simplicity of its conclusions. A must read for those interested in modern history.
This book is certainly not an easy read but it rewards the readers effort with a multitude of insights into naval strategy and to a lesser degree grand national strategy. As a work of history it is somewhat lacking and Mahan's attempts to detail the particular actions of fleets are cumbersome and arcane. Some of mahan's strategical imperatives have been proven false by later events(America's recovery after pearl harbor) but even these have immense value in learning how to approach strategic thinking and properly frame strategic questions.
One of the most influential books ever written; this book shaped grand strategy for great naval powers for decades, although some of its tenets have not proven true, probably because of the rise of technology Mahan had no way of anticipating, e.g. air power and small weapons that can render large, powerful warships impotent and vulnerable. It flowed well as history and many of the ideas are still reasonable; I suspect it even had some effect on the plot of the Star Wars film series with its battles of massive armadas in space controlling travel and devastating planets.
Shaped the world as it is today. Sea power is still today the foundation for American success, influence, and defense. No other nation even approaches our ability to control and secure the seas. This is a good thing. Our navy protects our shores from invasion and our merchant vessels from piracy. It also protects important sea lanes for trade around the world. Once again, no other nation has the capacity to fill this role. I believe our navy is larger than the next 9 nations combined, currently.
This book presents a high-level overview of European history in the stated time period, with special emphasis on sea power, case studies of its use, etc. Offers an interesting perspective; identifies the importance of British trade and the royal navy to the various conflicts of the time and the ultimate rise of the Empire, contrasting it with errors in French naval policy. (This book was apparently quite famous and influential in the early 20th century, and the ideas therein drove naval arms races leading up to the world wars.)
This book was initially published in the 1890s, and soon found itself on the night stand of every head of state that was a major power, in Europe; the President of the US; and, a New York politician named Theodore Roosevelt. While ostensibly a naval history of the Colonial Age, it speaks loudly for the need for strong navies to protect international trade, including ports and shipping lanes. Captain Mahan's book may be dull history, but it is also excellent strategy.
I read this book as part of the supplemental reading for the Brady Johnson Program in Grand Strategy at Yale. The book has to things to offer. First, to students of grand strategy it's value is historical. The book was tremendously influential for nearly 100 years in defining naval strategy and grand strategy in the Anglo-American world. Second, to military history buffs of the age of sail, it offers a wealth of detail on particular engagements between some great admirals.
My 3-star review is for the Kindle edition or really any edition without maps. The strategy portion of the book, the big picture approach promised by the title is excellent in its own right. But the majority of the book seems to focus on the tactics applied in specific battles or campaigns. An edition of the book that included maps to complement the descriptions of these naval battles would have the potential to merit 5 stars.
Such a hard long slog, but useful points were made. Especially about the roots of sea power and how sometimes the best way to seize land is to hold the seas. Some of the book has been overtaken by technology such as ship tracking satellites, but many of the books overarching ideas make sense. Alas the actual accounts of sea battles were completely eye glazing to me.
On one hand, the book is somewhat dated. Mahan's interest in the fueling of ships is irrelevant in the age of the atom, and his interest in repair facilities may also be irrelevant when ships are firing long-range missels (sp?) at each other. Still, as a basic textbook of naval warfare, this will teach you much.
