https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/785656.Owls_in_the_Family
I remember what was left of the prairies if I rode my bike in the other direction, passing cattle and a little slough on some nameless ranch.And as I nostalgically reread Farley Mowat's Owls in the Family, I found myself remembering the entire story as though I had only read it last week.
I remembered loving this book from when I was a kid! My sister's favorite animals were owls, so we were in awe of Farley's family who had two pet owls. After looking around for this book in the library, I finally ordered it off Amazon. It was so worth it! It was a quick read of 3 sittings and all three of my kids loved it and we all laughed and laughed. I've liked most of Farley Mowatt's books, but I've never read his most famous book: Never Cry Wolf. Someday I'll get to that.
Read-aloud. Now we wish we had an owl for a pet.
I just love this book. It goes back in a time when boys could roam and explore. This boy captures two owls and they live at home with him! It is quite hilarious! I also love that it is a true story
My son, in particular, enjoyed reading about boys who love the outdoors, like he does (although he has much less accessibility to wild space than they did).
The book tells how Billy, the main character, and his friends Bruce and Murray, come across a great horned owlet that's been orphaned by a storm, and they bring him home to Billy's house.
Billy then raises him, and another owl they end up rescuing, and the book tells of their adventures together.
I'd recommend it for elementary kids who need a chapter book to read, boys who enjoy the outdoors and wildlife, and for anyone as a family read-aloud.
I struggled between three and four stars on this one. It's an interesting tale, but for the most part, it's one of those children's books where each chapter is a separate adventure, and that's generally not my cup of tea. I ultimately went with four stars regardless since this book is just so readable and entertaining too.
This is so much fun to read about his owls. If you like them do read it. It is easily read in one day and a few laughs.
9/10 - So good! One of our favorite readalouds of the summer. Full review here: http://www.sunlitpages.com/2016/09/re...
It's the true story of a boy who raises two owls and the various adventures they have together.
It both reminded me of him, and reminded me how much he enjoyed animal stories.
I love that this book is still on our library's Battle of the Books list.
It is so not politically correct and I loved for that.
I loved that the father claimed he was going to give his son a whopping, that they dressed the owls in doll clothes for a pet parade, that the father guns down as many crows as he can.
A story of two Eagle owls (they're Big can fly off with a cat/dog), brought up by a boy in a north Canadian town.
When the family have to move to the city, they take the owls a long way into the wild to release them more than 200 km away and guess what, one flies back to his home.
That's not the only heartbreak, one of the owls is rescued from "boys" torturing it - and the other stronger one literally takes the shocked baby under his wing.Farley Mowat, animal lover, conservationist, story-teller of the great unknown - and boy - back when kids didn't have tv, mobiles, video games etc.
This was such an entertaining family read-aloud. My children (ages 5 and 7) were laughing so hard at the owls' antics! I highly recommend this charming book.Just a note that the book may not be suitable for extra-sensitive children since some animals (baby owls, cats, crows) die.
Read this several years ago, and I remember liking it. I read it with a group of kids when I was working as a paraeducator.
Jacob's choice. Funny story about the antics of two owls. Great story for kids to see what fun they can have in nature and with pets. We loved it.
A wonderful book! We read it aloud as a family and it was a favorite! We laughed a lot and enjoyed every bit of this heart-warming story.
My children and I LOVED this book! Very funny and we learned a lot about owls and various other animals. Highly recommend it! :)
Just finished reading this book to a grade 4/5 class — by far my favourite chapter book read-aloud experience ever! We’ve been reading one chapter each week during library class for the past couple of months, and it quickly became something that the students, their teacher, and I looked forward to each week. We laughed so much throughout the entire book and were totally engrossed in every crazy, exciting chapter. At the end of the book, they all said “This can’t be the end! Is there a sequel?!” Such great prairie imagery throughout as well. Highly recommend!
This was about the perfect read aloud book for our family at this point in our story. The tales are perfect, and we would have thoroughly enjoyed this account of a boy in Saskatoon all on its own, as my two oldest already had, but the fact we are about to move to Saskatchewan made it all the more sweet. The poplars, the prairie, the owls; my children can envision themselves loving this next season of life. Thank you, Farley Mowat. We cannot wait to fall in love with Saskatchewan, too.
If I was a kid reading this I'd give it more stars, although kids today may take umbrage at the same parts I did: steeling wild animals and their eggs and killing wild animals for fun... Aside from those parts it was a fun read.
This is such a hilarious little book. What made it better is I found out it was based on the author’s childhood—wow, what a childhood! This was part of my son’s first grade read-aloud reading, but as an adult I was literally laughing out loud at the escapades.
This is such a hilarious little book. What made it better is I found out it was based on the author’s childhood— wow, what a childhood! This was part of my son’s first grade read-aloud reading, but as an adult I was literally laughing out loud at the escapades.
This book was hilarious. I would have loved it if it were set anywhere, but who doesn't love getting to say Saskatoon, Saskatchewan!?
This little book is a hoot.
This is a great, quick, easy read. Farley Mowat, I hope I spelled that right, is like my go to author when I don't have a book to read, and this was just one of those books.
Wonderful story about kids being the way kids were meant to be! Having adventures outside, off on their own, discovering what it is to live! And it had not one, but two, owls in the story all based on real life! I really enjoyed my Finer Books Club "vacation" book! And to top it all off, it had illustrations!
What a thoroughly delightful book.I do some part-time work in a bookshop, and an elderly fellow came in asking if we had any books by Farley Mowat, "Owls in the Family" in particular.
So I did some looking around on the net and found a place to order it from.Now, I've been collecting owls as long as I can remember - wait a moment, that's an elaboration of the facts.
I've been collecting owls, probably since I began working (in the mid-70s) and definitely before my son was born in 1984.
This is one of Mowat's early books, written before "Never Cry Wolf" (the one he's most famous for.) It's more or less a juvenile, written from the point of view of a boy of somewhere between 10 and 13 and meant to appeal to boys that age.
However, in the 21st century, I doubt that vision of boyhood would be at all recognizable to boys that age - even in rural areas, childhood isn't like that any more.
So the book now is mostly only for adults old enough to remember, at least a little, when childhood meant running around loose all day, hiking into nowhere without supervision and with shotguns just for fun.
Then supposing you had a chance to take home a couple of orphaned great horned owls.
Then, supposing said owls grew to full size, liked to nibble on people's ears, teased your dog, fought with skunks (yup!
during dinner!), followed you to school, climbed trees...
It's so much more interesting when the owl bites the mailman - or when it's an owl that follows you to school (and in the window!) - or when it's an owl that thinks he can walk on water!
*Oh, and throw thirty-plus pet prairie dogs into the mix.
I loved this book as a child and it holds up surprisingly well.
I also loved the references to Saskatoon- he refers to the railroad bridge and Spadina.
I just learned that Farley Mowat had a column in the Saskatoon Star Phoenix when he was 13 years old.When I was small, I was convinced that this book was a true story.
However, I think it's based on Mowat's adventures with his own pet owls- just because of the details and description.
Apparently I'm not alone in thinking this was a true story, as many of the goodreads readers claim that the whole thing is true.
Mowat's Owl story is, in my memory, a quick read sequel to Mutt's story. Decades after first reading it, the memory of the hilarious scene with the garage mechanic, the owls and goggled dog in the Mowat family car's rumble seat still brings a smile ... If you have an interest in owls, I suggest adding this to your TBR.The Dog Who Wouldn't Be
So, this book is cute and easy to read. The problem I had with it was it's supposed to be humorous, but I found it a little bit sad. I don't know if I'm just weird that way or what, but other people would probaby enjoy it!
Required reading in grade school, this episodic story is one I never forgot. I just love the style and tone of this quick read and I wish there was a snazzy re-print so I could hand this one out to families like candy.
