https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1963165.Sherlock_Holmes_vs_Dracula
This is Doctor Watson's account of Sherlock Holmes's heretofore untold part in the Dracula saga, written to rectify this important omission in Stoker's account, at the specific request of Professor Van Helsing.
More shocking, however, is our favorite duo witnessing her impalement by Van Helsing, Harker, and the gang from Bram Stoker's Dracula.
Van Helsing is disturbed to discover that the great detective knows much more about him and his companions than he initially thought.
Forced to fill in Holmes on the Dracula legend, Van Helsing dismisses his offer of help nonetheless.
Listened to the BBC audio of Sherlock Holmes vs Dracula where John Moffatt is playing Holmes, who incidentally also did the voiceover for Poirot. So there'l be times when I would not know whether its the voice of Poirot or Holmes talking. Add to the confounded confusion - Van Helsing, Dracula and the lot! I was pretty much Pretty lame quaint as far as the plot goes. Nothing to write home about.1.5 blah stars
It would be pushing the law of averages too far to suggest that everyone we have spoken to in connection with this case is suffering from the same delusions.”“It would be a most amazing coincidence,” agreed my friend.“At the same time, all my scientific training rebels against the notion of Supernatural beings that rise from their graves at night to feed upon the blood of the living and command fog and storms to cover their tracks.”So, “the game’s afoot.” But I am the one who enters it being skeptical.
Predator?Well, my friends, I am reporting that this book is a fine addition to the Holmes casebook.
I do not wish to make her a widow before her time.’”I don’t know anything about the rest of this series but this book bodes well for it.
بد نبود. بانمک بود
If you have never read it before read it now it will provide a lot of context that you otherwise would be missing out on.
Estleman does an excelent job of copying the good Doctor's (Dr. Doyle that is) writing style and you need to be able to appreciate that fact.And on that note I congradulate Mr. Estleman for staying so close to Stoker's novel.
Instead of just writing a parody of the two classic Characters his novel provides added depth and really stays true to images that the reader fell in love with.
This Sherlockian pastiche pits the great detective against Count Dracula in a sort of "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead" approach that sees Holmes and Watson operating parallel to the plot of the Stoker novel, interacting with it only indirectly and infrequently.
While this prevents the ultimate Victorian buddy-cop relationship of Holmes and Van Helsing, it does allow this novel to read more like a Holmes story and less like a patch job of disparate styles.
All in all, you could do much worse (and there are plenty of Holmes-meets-Dracula stories out there to prove it).
I automatically doubt that a revisit could match the feel and style of the original.Well......I am also able to admit when I'm wrong.Finding The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes: Holmes Vs Dracula as an offering on my local library's digital site, I must admit chuckling that I would need a bottle of wine to go with the cheese.
I'm going to read Estleman's second Sherlock adventure first before delving into the other writers in this series, but I'm willing to have an open mind and try more new Holmes adventures!
It's definitely on my wish list!There are 25 books in the Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes series published by Titan Books.
In this novel, he gives us an edgier Dr. Watson, a slightly more arrogant Sherlock Holmes, an obsessed Dr. Van Helsing and a conniving Count Dracula.
Holmes is pulled into the world of literary Dracula novel when a reporter asks for his assistance and soon has a formidable mystery and murders confronting him.
The final (?) confrontation with Count Dracula is perfectly constructed.
The author does take several liberties with the Dracula characters from the original Bram Stoker novel.
The novel builds to a crescendo and the ending is quite good even though the author leaves the possibility of a future encounter.
From BBC Radio 4 Extra:The Baker Street sleuth takes on the sanguinary Count. Loren D Estleman's thriller stars John Moffatt and Timothy West.
I’m not a big time fan of Sherlock Holmes but my love for Dracula goes back to my early childhood in the 70s when I watched Creature Features on TV before discovering, via a Scholastic catalog, that “someone made a book out of Dracula” and I read Bram Stoker’s Dracula in middle school.Some years ago I purchased The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes vs.
Loren Estleman does a great job at making the casual reader of Sherlock Holmes feel like they’re getting the real thing directly from the pen of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Dramatization of the book by BBC Radio. It was a pleasant hear though at some moments the sound was not stable, I know you should be able to distinguish the distance and so on, however there were moments where I had to turn the volume to the top and suddenly drop it to be able to hear everything. What I liked was great pace and drama in it as well as additional sounds adding to the story.
Estleman does a wonderful job capturing the feel of a Sherlock Holmes' mystery while weaving in Bram Stoker's 'Dracula'.
It does help to be familiar with Bram Stoker novel (not just the films).
'Sherlock Holmes vs Dracula' fits in as the chapters not seen in Stoker's novel.
However, it stayed true to Bram Stoker's version of Dracula - especially that Dracula could be out in daylight.All in all, it was a fun read!
I think it could be adapted into an interesting film.I won't spoil it but there was a wonderful exchange between Watson and Dracula, near the end, that made me smile.I certainly recommend this book to both Dracula and Holmes fans!
I thought it was pretty clever the way the author wove Watson and Holmes investigating into the off-stage scenes from the Dracula story.
Each character played their part the way Arthur Conan Doyle would have written and I found the resolution - and the adventure getting there - most enjoyable.
The atmosphere was positively dripping with that gothicy darkness and the creep factor was still present as it is in the original Dracula story.
Overall I thought the author did a fine job with this tale and I am off to look into the other 2 Holmes/Watson stories he penned.
For some reason, no-one believes this is a real book until I shove it under their nose. The coolest book I've ever read.
This is the second book about Holmes and Dracula I've read, and unlike Fred Saberhagen's attempt, Estleman does an excellent job of making the two characters and their worlds work together.
I think a big part of this is whereas Saberhagen undermined Holmes' character by having him already familiar with vampires and the supernatural, Estleman has Holmes encountering the world beyond the rational for the first time.
I also appreciate that Estleman does a great job of capturing Arthur Conan Doyle's writing style, as well as portraying Holmes and Watson in such a way that it really feels like this could be part of the original canon.
Estleman, known for his prolific and excellent mysteries, delivers a swift-paced paranormal mystery that aptly interweaves characters known to modern readers from Bram Stoker’s “Dracula.” The events occurring in “Holmes vs.
But Holmes is indefatigable, and determined to put this case to right, saving England from the predatory Dracula.
Author Estleman deftly delineates the characters, as well as providing that thrilling sense of adventure readers expect when following the cases of Sherlock Holmes and the not-so-bumbling Dr. John Watson, sidekick, faithful companion, and amanuensis.
Total waste of great potential :-/ Such a disappointment ...
It's a good idea, it made me smile at times, and I'll always have a soft spot for Sherlock Holmes pastiches -- but the quality of writing isn't anything to shout about from the rafters.
It's the equivalent of a quick, pulpy read: cheesy and overdramatic, complete with hellish red eyes and masculine heroics and dramatic cliffhangers at the end of each chapter.
Not bad, but not stellar; come to this if you're a fan of Doyle and Stoker and don't mind seeing another author trample about in that sandbox.(I would've liked a bit more interaction between Holmes & van Helsing, though -- two such powerful literary figures need more camera-time together, imo.)
A rather clever retelling of the Bram Stoker tale with Holmes as a character, narrated, of course, by Watson, and purporting to be a part of the main canon.Estleman is good at recreating the Holmesian aspect: the boughs howling in moonlit graveyards, the gas-lamps’ blobby light in thick fog, etc.
He's done his research as to the period and the writing style, and it does work.
(Less present is the macabre horror of Stoker’s novel.) On the whole, it's a great idea, and the book presents Victorian thrills and action and chase scenes aplenty.

This was a fun way to spend some time. I caught the BBC version.You gotta take this one with some grains of salt and be familiar with Dracula the novel to really enjoy this one. I can see how many Holmes purists would loathe this but I loved it.Update: I finally own the book and love it so much more that the BBC version. Bumped it up to 5 stars
Just a bit better than a 2.The book lacked depth. There was little sense of awe to it.The meeting of two fictional giants should have been epic, and it never got close. It could have been a classic, but alas was only saved at all by being a quick read.
داستان جذابی بود و احتمال زیاد بقیه یکتاب های شرلوک هولمز هم بخونم. اما تا حدودی نسبت به بقیه ی رمان هایی که خوندم بی هدف بود و صرفا یک ماجرای پلیسی بود. با این حال من دوسش داشتم :))))
چون هر دوی این کاراکترها از کاراکترهای مورد علاقهم بودن این کتاب رو خوندم.
دو سه «ایراد» هست که به این رمان وارد میدونم.
یکی این که شرلوک هولمز طبق چیزی که در آثار کانن دویل خونده بودم یه شخصیت سکولاره و نه مذهبی.
و از طرف دیگه دراکولا اصل وجودش دلایل مذهبی داره و علت وضعیت فعلیش طبق اونچه که در رمان دراکولای برام استوکر اومده اینه که «روحش رو به شیطان فروخته» و از این جهت از صلیب بیزاره.
حالا این که شرلوک صلیب به دست بگیره به نظرم با شخصیت شرلوک مناسبتی نداره.
و دوم این که دراکولا و همه اونچه ک
یکی این که شرلوک هولمز طبق چیزی که در آثار کانن دویل خونده بودم یه شخصیت سکولاره و نه مذهبی.
و از طرف دیگه دراکولا اصل وجودش دلایل مذهبی داره و علت وضعیت فعلی‌ش طبق اونچه که در رمان دراکولای برام استوکر اومده اینه که «روحش رو به شیطان فروخته» و از این جهت از صلیب بیزاره.
حالا این که شرلوک صلیب به دست بگیره به نظرم با شخصیت شرلوک مناسبتی نداره.
و دوم این که دراکولا و همه اونچه که پیرامونش می‌گذره حالت خرافی داره و باز هم از این نظر ورود شخصیت شرلوک با اون وجهه عقلگراش به چنین فضایی به نظرم نامتناسب می‌آد.
I have thoroughly enjoyed both books I have read in the series-- The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes, both this one and The Titanic Tragedy.
But I have to say, Sherlock Holmes vs.
Dracula is head and shoulders above The Titanic Tragedy.The pacing and storytelling are crisp and faithful to Doyle's original tales and characterizations.
I have read Bram Stoker's Dracula twice.
This book does a clever job of connecting to and weaving in and out Stoker's original classic.
Dracula: The Adventure of the Sanguinary Count.
I felt Estleman really emulated Conan Doyle's writing style and tone.
If you gave someone this to read without showing them the cover, I think they would be hard pushed to identify that it wasn't written by Conan Doyle himself.I really enjoyed the differences of opinion between Holmes believing the paranormal and Watson sticking to reason and science.
Holmes and Van Helsing also were an interesting pairing, which I would like to see more of.The loss of 1 star was purely because my attention wasn't held for the last 50 pages or so and I didn't feel the plot was particularly clear towards the end.
Estleman manages to take an initially strange premise and write a convincingly written and entertaining homage to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes novels.
While I still believe that Doyle’s Holmes would never truly believe this to be possible, I have to acknowledge that I am reading Estleman’s Holmes and that in this world where Dracula does exist, he naturally follows the evidence and accepts it and for the sake of the story it works.
Most impressive to me was the fact that Estleman has managed to capture the tone and language of Doyle’s Holmes novels and make it easy for the reader to believe they are reading Dr. John Watson’s recounting of one of his many adventures with the imitable Sherlock Holmes.
I thought this would be a fun bit of nonsense to crack through quickly, but this book is so much more than that.
I was expecting a Holmesian parody, but the author hits precisely the right tone, so it feels like a proper Sherlock Holmes story.
More than that, it's a story with genuine tension and excitement.
Brilliantly written.
It's been a while since I read Bram Stoker's Dracula, but from memory, this book doesn't contradict anything in the story, but rather runs parallel to it...
From when Dracula lands in Whitby anyway.
I'll certainly check out more of Mr Estlemans work.
This book is exactly what the title says, it is Sherlock Holmes vs. Dracula. The story is basically that in the original Dracula, Sherlock Holmes was actually there but when Van Helsing went to Bram Stoker to have the manuscript published he had the parts relating to Holmes out to make himself seem more important. I liked the book, the characters seem to act correctly based off how they act in the real stories. The story its self is also good. It is not too long and it is actually a fairly quick read, I would definitely recommend it.
Forget the cheesy title because this is one of the best pastiche offerings of Sherlock Holmes I have read. An excellent tribute to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, Estleman, an superlative writer in his own right, creates a fitting addition to Sherlockian lore. Emulating the style of Doyle, this could be another long lost manuscript of Dr. John Watson chronicling the exploits of the legendary detective as he thwarts the unholy Count Dracula. A surprisingly addictive story and a very good read.
