https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5932.Twenty_Love_Poems_and_a_Song_of_Despair
Write, for example, "The night is starry and the stars are blue and shiver in the distance." The night wind revolves in the sky and sings.
Through nights like this one I held her in my arms.
How could one not have loved her great still eyes.
I no longer love her, that's certain, but how I loved her.
My voice tried to find the wind to touch her hearing.
I no longer love her, that's certain, but maybe I love her.
Because through nights like this one I held her in my arms my soul is not satisfied that it has lost her.
Weirdly enough, I visited on my twentieth birthday, on a lark, because I just happened to be vacationing in a nearby cabin with my host family.The thing that I remember about Pablo Neruda's house is that it's set back in a grove of dark pine trees and that there's sand everywhere.
2. I read "Twenty Love Poems" about five years ago, but I thought it was corny at the time.
This time when I read "Twenty Love Poems" it meant something to me, because now I have been in love.
It makes me remember all of the dark clouds.
Sensual poetic beauty, with a lingering sadness, this collection of poems written when Chilean Neruda was only 19 is a remarkable feat, but was not received well for the intense and sexual content, this time being 1924 I can understand why, however, there is no explicit text it's more to do with imagery using the surrounding environment, charting oceanic movements of passion along with the changing weather, to tell of youthful love.
To the contrary, the poems represent an open curiosity for different dimensions of life like sexuality, solitude, melancholy, and loss.
I do not love you except because I love you;I go from loving to not loving you,From waiting to not w
In you everything sank!Love in Nerudian realms starts as the most intense of passions, the yet alone lover hastens to explore every pore, he aches to become one with the beloved, there’s nothing else but the yearning to be close to the other, the presence that is felt through a hand held, a voice heard, or a smile seen, leaves him battered with desire, as souls know no calendar, nor do they understand the time or distance, they strive to collide, to become one, even for a moment, that lives for eternity..I was alone like a tunnel.
His words caress the senses; imagery so delicious and fulfilling you can not only see it but smell and taste and feel it, this is a great collection of passionate poetic imagery with a tinge of sadness but, sadly though, it was scandalized due to its sexual content which shows limited understanding of human beings in general.Pablo Neruda brings love and rebellion to mind as soon as you think about him, he is considered to be synonym of love and strong emotions.
Tempting as it may appear to wrap the poetic pearls from this collection of Neruda’s heartbeats into a warm shawl of erotic wool, do resist it and pause. These loquacious verses that assemble at the nape of a lover or ripple playfully across the soft mountains of a beloved’s waist, magnify when viewed through the dual lenses of  night  and  water . I have said that you sang in the windlike pines and like masts.Like them you are tall and taciturn,and you are sad, all at once, like a voyage.You ga
Despite none of the later-years’ blackness charring his soul, his propensity to hinge his ode on night and water mirrors a certain yearning that isn’t a slave of reciprocity or longevity.
Neruda’s poems personify a charming surrender that fortifies the vulnerability of new love and removes the shame out of the advances that are nothing but a chime before the music.
And with the final poem, one can almost imagine him slumping to the ground, dropping his gaze from his object of love and yet, not allowing the humming of his heart to lay still.
These are peals of pleasure of a man drunk on Neruda wine, blurting out extempore, when he finished reading this poetry collection]Pablo Neruda – the name evokes romance and revolution in my consciousness, a riot of metaphors and action, a turbo charged celebration of love and beauty, a flood of high emotions that assails my senses and dulls them so that the only thing I am receptive to when I have Neruda’s verse before me is but his verse.
تا به من گوش دهی،کلماتمگاه نازکی میگیرندچون رد گاکیان بر ساحلدستبندی، از زنگولههای مستبرای دستهای چون انگورْ نرمتو من نظاره میکنم از دور به کلماتم- بیشتر از آن تو هستند، تا از آن من -که از درد کهن من بالا میروند، چون پیچکبالا میروند، همچنان که از دیوارهای نمورگناه این بازی بی رحم به گردن توستمیگریزند از کنام تاریکمهر چه را میآکنی تو، هر چه را میآکنیپیش از تو، آنان پر میکردند انزوایی را که تو پر کردیو آشناترند از تو به اندوهمحال میخواهم برایت بگویندآنچه من میخواهم بگویمتتا گوش دهی، همان گونه که م
تا به من گوش دهی،کلماتمگاه نازکی می‌گیرندچون رد گاکیان بر ساحلدستبندی، از زنگوله‌های مستبرای دست‌های
I adore Neruda's poetry. The only reason that I am giving 4 stars and not 5, is because the "woman as a doll" imagery that he seems fond of using put me off every time I came across it...

One of the most beautiful collection of love poems ever (and followed by one which will bring tears to your eyes), Neruda is clearly a master of language and feeling and I always derive comfort from every time I read this book.
She loved me, sometimes I loved her.How could I not have loved her large, still eyes?I can write the saddest poem of all tonight.To think I don’t have her.
To feel that I’ve lost her.
To hear the immense night, more immense without her.
And the poem falls to the soul as dew to grass.Kind of speaks for itself, don't you think?
فلنقرأ أيضاً هذه الترجمة الكارثية لمحمود : " أعالي البحار في قلب الأمواج/ جسدك بين ذراعي انسجام / سمكة إلى الأبد بروحي لصيقة / في يافع فلك السماء سريعة وئيدة " و هذا ما يذكرني بمراحل الدراسة الأولى و درس الجملة المفيدة و غير المفيدة.
مروان ترجمها بهذا الشكل : "وسط الأمواج في المياه البعيدة / يستسلم جسدك الجميل بين ذراعيّ / مثل سمكة التصقت بروحي إلى الأبد / و أنا أسرع و أتمهل تحت زرقة السماء".
As I had seen recently in some friend's review and Crossing my other books, I've chosen to read it first which had been waiting for me so long in my shelf.Well, It's classic poetry with all the poetic devices were glittering in so wonderful form of words along in thread of rhythmic poetry.
I'm glad and ecastic with motion of calm words of poet.Some of Great lines-*The numberless heart of the wind beating above our loving silence.
Ah woman, I do not know how you could contain me in the earth of your soul, in the cross of your arms!*I no longer love her, that's certain, but maybe !
Whether you are in love or use to be in love (speaking for myself), you will appreciate this book's honest devotion and declaration to this ancient and yet new concept."How you must have suffered getting accustomed to me,my savage, solitary soul, my name that sends them all running.So many times we have seen the morning star burn, kissing our eyes,and over our heads the grey light unwinds in turning fans.My words rained over you, stroking you.A long time I have loved the sunned mother-of-pearl of your body.Until I even believe that you own the universe.I will bring you happy flowers from the mountains, bluebells, dark hazels, and rustic baskets of kisses.I want to do with you what spring does with the cherry trees." -Poema XIV Desde siempre el hombre ha intentado definir el "amor".
La edición de este libro que leí es una doble traducción, pero mis citas del poema "Juegas Todos Los Días" que recojo a continuación son en español:
The images of trees, streams, and animals of all kinds never seem forced or automatic, but rather seem to be part of an ancient and effortless vocabulary, as if either Nature herself had written these passionate lines, or she were the lover to be praised.This translation by W.S. Merwin—a distinquished poet in his own right—is the best known English version.
It is simple, eloquent, and natural—as any good translation of this book must be.I love “Tonight I could write the saddest lines,” but I won’t reproduce it here.
I took my time reading this, choosing to savor the succulent, vivid, tactile words.
As a side note, I love that the poem is shown in it's original language first and on the opposing page.
It's intriguingly seductive to read the verse in it's original form and hear it's fluidity and elegance.
Then, too, having the Picasso illustrations intermingled with Neruda's vibrant voice adds volume to the juxtaposition of his colliding passions.This is a lovely little tome that will envelop you and draw you back into it's pages with words like, "You undermine the horizon with your absence," calling out to the core of you.
In the distance.My soul is not satisfied that it has lost her.My sight searches for her as though to go to her.My heart looks for her, and she is not with me.The same night whitening the same trees.We, of that time, are no longer the same.I no longer love her, that's certain, but how I loved her.My voice tried to find the wind to touch her hearing.Another's.
Εδώ σ'αγαπάω εγώ! Δε πα να σε κρύβει όσο θέλει ο ορίζοντας - ματαιοπονεί! Εσένα σ'αγαπάω εγώ,επιμένω. Ακόμα και μέσα στη ψύχρα των γύρω πραγμάτων. Κάθε τόσο φεύγουν τα φιλιά μου και πάνε μαζί με τα καράβια εκείνα, τα ποντοπόρα, και φτάνουν περ' απ' το τέρμα, στα εκείθε.
كم هو قصير الحبوكم هو طويل النسيان. :'))
But to read and consume these two aspects of his poetry in a compartmentalized manner would be an affront to why Gabriel Garcia Marquez called Neruda 
“Body of a woman, white hills, white thighsYou look like a world, lying in surrender.My rough peasant’s body digs in youand makes the son leap from the depth of the earth.” (3 Poem I)“I go so far a to think that you own the universe.I will bring you happy flowers from the mountains, bluebells,dark hazels, and rustic basket of kisses.I wantto do with you what spring does with the cherry trees.”(74, Poem XIV)
Ahora me dieron ganas de abrazar...bueno les dejo el que más me "sacudió"... Poema 20  Puedo escribir los versos más tristes esta noche. Escribir, por ejemplo: "La noche esta estrellada, y tiritan, azules, los astros, a lo lejos". El viento de la noche gira en el cielo y canta. Puedo escribir los versos más tristes esta noche. Yo la quise, y a veces ella también me quiso. En las noches como ésta la tuve entre mis brazos. La besé tantas veces bajo el cielo infinito. Ella me quiso, a veces yo tamb
Escribir, por ejemplo: "La noche esta estrellada, y tiritan, azules, los astros, a lo lejos".
Yo la quise, y a veces ella también me quiso.
En las noches como ésta la tuve entre mis brazos.
Puedo escribir los versos más tristes esta noche.
Puedo escribir los versos más tristes esta noche.
Puedo escribir los versos más tristes esta noche.
Oír la noche inmensa, más inmensa sin ella.
La noche está estrellada y ella no está conmigo.
La misma noche que hace blanquear los mismos árboles.
Porque en noches como esta la tuve entre mis brazos, mi alma no se contenta con haberla perdido.
"Αναδύεται η θύμησή σου από τη νύχτα που με στεγάζει.Το ποτάμι αδειάζει στη θάλασσα τον επίμονο θρήνο του.""Τώρα πιά δεν την αγαπάω, σίγουρα...Πόσο όμως θεέ μου , την αγάπησα τότε. Πολέμαγε η φωνή μου να βρει τη ριπή του ανέμου που θα της άγγιζε το αυτί.""Θ' ακούω την απέραντη νύχτα,την πέντε φορές απέραντη χωρίς εκείνην.Και τους στίχους να πέφτουν στην ψυχή μου όπως πέφτει η δροσιά στο λιβάδι."
Beautiful! Profusion of sweet and tender emotions poured at will. Sensual, poetic, nostalgic and melancholy.
Sin embargo, consideré que el libro no tiene que pagar por mi error: a mí los poemas de amor no me gustan (no me interesa como tema, para ser exacta) y yo ya estaba advertida desde el título.
Como todavía no había leído a Neruda y este es uno de sus libros más famosos, no dudé mucho en elegirlo.
Sentí que en los 20 poemas y en la canción desesperada dice siempre lo mismo pero con distintas palabras.
Sí, se me puede acusar de "falta de sensibilidad", pero prefiero la oscuridad de Las flores del mal, de Charles Baudelaire, y no me avergüenza decirlo.
Oh, the power to celebrate you with all the words of happinessTo sing, to burn, to flee, like a church bell in the hands of a madman. Pablo Neruda is the most famous Spanish-speaking poet of the 20th century, perhaps in all of literature. He published this, his most popular book, when he was 19 years old—a fact which will fill you with hope or despair, depending on your age. Yet it is youth (being the period in which love is felt most and understood least) that is the best time to write love po
To pick just one example, in one poem Neruda says he wants to make an infinite chain “para tus manos blancas, suaves como las uvas,” which translates to “for your white hands, soft like grapes.” To my ears, this line hardly works in English.
Situations like this happen often in translation, presenting the translator with a choice between literal or impressionistic fidelity; and both choices have their downsides.As you might expect of youthful love poetry, this book is full of ardor, of lust, of desperation, and of the deepest tenderness.
“Tonight I can write the saddest linesI loved her, and sometimes she loved me too.” I'm still drunk on Neruda's poems and to be honest, I'm not sure I'll sober up again anytime soon.
The author's words seem to draw you into a kind of trance in which you start to say the poems out loud, creating a mixture of the poet's feelings and yours.
“It was at that age that poetry came in search of me.” As Neruda several times recited his poems to thousands of people, I also declaim them out loud today at home.
The miracle of knowing we are still capable of love even after harsh and painful times.
كَان ِلي حُلم عِشتُ سنِينَ عمُرِي أرَعَاه. أن يَكتُب لِي القَدر يَوماً لِقَاائَك.. ولَكن كَان للقَدر رأيَ اَخرفَما اَصعبُ مُفراَاقَات الاَقدَار
Çeviriden dolayı şiirlerin çok fazla anlam kaybı yaşadığını düşünüyorum. Yani bence öyle olmuş. Öyle çok fazla sevemedim ben. Hissedemedim de zaten. Sadece sonlara doğru 3-5 şiir hoşuma gitti, hepsi bu. Bayılmadım, hoşuma gitti.  Bu gece en hüzünlü şiiri yazabilirim. Şöyle diyebilirim: 'Gece yıldızla doluve yıldızlar, masmavi, titreşiyor uzakta.'Şakıyarak dönüyor gökte gece rüzgarı. Bu gece en hüzünlü şiiri yazabilirim. Sevdim ben onu, o da beni sevdi bir ara.
In honesty, I'm trying to hit 150 for complete reads this year, which makes about four per week.
I read some of his other writings and they didn't impact me the same, so I put Neruda at 20 on my list.
-------------------------------------I've finally found an author who makes me feel the way Kafka makes me feel, in a different, but equally powerful way.Rather than mull over each word I get into this canoe and Neruda paddles and sweeps me along this river path of love's delight and heartbreak, and intertwined in his memories I see flashes of personal memory.What a powerful, deep, intelligent and beautiful soul!Absolutely a favorite!
