https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/276066.The_Great_Hunger
The Irish died not really because of the potato blight but because of insanely stupid laws governing land ownership and tenancy that were set up to benefit a tiny few and to exploit and degrade the many and were subsequently defended, even at the height of the famine, on the basis of the sanctity of private property and the untouchable profit of landowners (which their own shortsighted greed ultimately diminished or destroyed anyway); a grossly unequal distribution of wealth; contempt for Ireland, the Irish, and Catholicism, for a culture and a religion that were widely regarded as inherently backward and dangerous; and, above all, a blind faith on the part of government and the wealthy in the power of a free market and an insistence, in the face of all evidence and all common sense, that government intervention and assistance were always wrong ("government isn't the solution to the problem; government IS the problem" sums up their ideology pretty well) because it distorted the market, reduced the incentive for private enterprise, and encouraged dependence instead of manly self-reliance (sound familiar?).
(Yes, I'm New Orleans-born, and my thought while reading "The Great Hunger" was that the relief efforts undertaken in Ireland after 1845 managed to make the way the American administration handled the Katrina disaster seem like a model of planning and efficiency) Woodham-Smith was writing at the end of the 1950s--- before demography and statistics were assimilated by historians, and she relies on prose rather than statistics to tell her tale.
The more recent, more social-science look at the famine is Kinealy's "The Great Calamity, which should be read in tandem with Woodham-Smith.
I picked this book up at a time when I am researching my family history and at the moment in particular my 3 x great grandparents Hugh and Catherine who came from Roscommon, Ireland, to England in 1852.
They would have been teenagers at the time of the great famine..
I know my ancestors were humble people who couldn't read or write, and I really wonder how they survived, and how many of their families perished.It's easy having read this horrific story to blame the British government for the deaths of so many Irishmen but I think the blame must be more widely spread.
This is the best book I have ever read in my life.
The catastrophe developed after centuries of colonialism, where the bountiful agricultural resources were extracted from Ireland while the Irish people were reduced to barely subsistence level lives: diet of one staple (in spite of the variety of exports they raised), starvation every year before the potato crop was ready, work to pay rent with hardly any currency exchanged, education and language outlawed, no professions allowed.
After a complete failure of the potato crop, the government expected the people to recover themselves with no seed and no currency to buy it.
In The Great Hunger Woodham-Smith shows how doctrinaire adherence to laissez faire economic theory, ignorance of conditions in Ireland, hatred of the Irish and unchecked colonialism applied to what was officially part of Britain led to the deaths of more than four million men, women and children in Ireland, and the emigration of two or three million more, many of whom died on their journey, in the period 1845-49.
Trevelyan was a true bureaucrat, and dealt with many problems merely by calling for further reports on them.Through convoluted reasoning Trevelyan thought the people responsible for the mass of starving Irish were the landlords, who refused to fund relief funds.
After reading this book I'm amazed my Irish ancestors survived long enough to be able to emigrate to England and for that I am truly thankful or I wouldn't be here to write this review.
Truly harrowing in it's detail of the sufferings of the Irish people and what we now see as their callous treatment by the British government.
The conditions people lived in were appalling and the ones who thought they were emigrating to a better life fared just as badly, thousands of them dying of typhoid fever either on the crossing or as soon as they reached Canada/America/England.
Well written and thought provoking, a must read for anyone researching their Irish roots.
It was only after visiting the Famine museum in Strokestown House that I felt compelled to investigate the full story of the famine. This book is an outstanding piece of research into Ireland's darkest hour and should be considered as essential reading for every student of Irish history
The famine was a result of, cumulatively: land use policy, landlord- tenant relations, cycles of repression and rebellion, political and religious strife, bureaucracy, the ease with which potatoes could be cultivated and therefore the extent to which the Irish poor with very little land became dependent on that crop, administrative ineptitude in averting anticipated disasters, export policy, food distribution snafus and public works mismanagement, and conservative laissez faire economic policy by the English Treasury.
A pathetic attempt at an uprising by the Young Irelanders led by William Smith O’Brien failed, as it’s pretty hard to get people who are literally starving very organized, but resulted in further animosity between the Irish and English as the insurrection was put down.
Consider: why does Irish President Mary Robinson call it “Ireland’s greatest natural disaster” while she conceals the British army’s role?
Potato blight, “phytophthora infestans”, did spread from America to Europe in 1844, to England and then Ireland in 1845 but it didn’t cause famine anywhere.
The approach by the British to the Famine was disgraceful.
The British adopted a laissez faire view and in 1848 Trevelyn wrote in a letter to Routh " Ireland is on her own,we can do no more for her, let the Famine take it's natural course".
The evil truth was always going to be too much for innocent young minds to fathom.
From the many sources used in this important book it is amazing that to this day the systematic policies of privation that kept Gaelic Ireland restrained in a constant precarious state of cyclical starvation have never been acknowledged by any British government since.
Now when I see corn kernels all I can see is Peels Brimstone and the lyric from the song Fields of Athenry "for they stole Trevelyens corn so their young might see the morn".This wasn't a disaster or a calamity, it was simply murder on a mass scale.
God sent the blight but the british created the famine.
This is excellent, a really comprehensive account of the famine. The digression about the life of the Irish emigrants in New York is too long, but on the other hand there's a good explanation of contemporary theories about the cause of the potato blight, and of the discovery of the real cause in the 20th century.
This is such a heartbreaking and emotional read. It is also full of history, politics of the time and an indepth soul searching account of the suffering of the Irish people.It is a book that I keep close as my family suffered in that period.
A heart breaking, step by step retelling of how the Great Famine afflicted Ireland, causing a mass exodus by the population. It reveals a poor response to the famine as well as what diseases resulted and what happened to many who tried to flee and survive.
And I certainly think that it’s a period which anyone who wants to understand modern Ireland should understand more fully.The book is exhaustive, exhausting, horrifying and educational.
And that’s one of the worst pieces of information – apart from the fact that during the famine, food was being shipped OUT of Ireland, people were also being thrown forcibly out of their hovel-homes.Even when the ‘lucky ones’ among those people managed to get to Canada or America they faced challenges in being allowed enter and, as they had zero skills beyond potato-growing, they simply created slums everywhere they went, with the terrible diseases they carried another factor to consider.
The human disaster that was the Irish Famine was an event defying easy explanation, though it stands as a grim reminder of the biologist's dictum that it is the little things that rule the world.
It also fanned flames of anti-English hatred on the part of the Irish that had been smouldering for the preceding 600 years.
How culpable the British government was in allowing the Irish Famine to progress to the levels it did is one of the preoccupations of this monumental historical study, and the culprit appears to be dogmatism as much as anything else.
I wasn't taught about the Irish Potato famines at school.
Although I thought I'd self-taught myself about them subsequently, I still wasn't prepared for the tragedies described in this book; tragedies that have left a legacy to this day.
A small criticism (mild spoiler alert) is the way the book ends by describing, in great detail, Queen Victoria's visit to Ireland in 1849.
Certainly, the surprisingly warm welcome the Queen received was not reciprocated by any change in the British Government's attitude towards Ireland or its willingness to help the desperate state of its people.
. as a nation, the English have proved themselves to be capable of generosity, tolerance and magnanimity, but not where Ireland is concerned.
The moment the very name of Ireland is mentioned, the English seem to bid adieu to common feeling, common prudence and common sense and to act with the barbarity of tyrants and the fatuity of idiots."The story of the Great Famine period (1846--49), and the absolute colonialism practiced by the British over the Irish, directly and/or indirectly causing millions of deaths.
Famine, disease, lack of resources, a laissez-faire attitude by the British Government, various forms of "fever," etc .
Woodham-Smith can be a bit too ready with generalizations about peasant culture, and in discussing immigration, New Orleans is never mentioned (although it was second only to New York as a destination) and Philadelphia only briefly.
All in all, it made sure that Ireland would never accept a true union with Britain, and left a certain mark on Irish culture that I have observed in my family and Irish-Americans in general: distrust of authority, gallow's humor, a relic Catholicism, depression, and a desire for community even when it is facile or pointless.
Cecil Woodham-Smith’s magnificent record of the Irish diaspora led by the infamous policies of the absentee Anglo-Irish landowners of the early 1800s stands alone in defining the causes, the conditions under which “tumbling” of the people’s’ homes left them to walk the roads, the “murrain” which caused potatoes to rot in the fields, and the infamous steerage passage to America with its own deadly costs.
A lot of information about Great Famine is in this book. I liked insight into the immigration process, detailed process about potato blight and also I learned something about people who "were in charge" during famine. A lot of citations, in a well arranged way divided chapters...great introduction to one of the biggest disaster of 19th century and its consequences.
The mendacity of the British government in denying the extent of Irish suffering and the absurdity of English culpability into exacerbating that suffering issue clearly laid out in this touchstone of historical prose.
Too much a parade of facts without a connecting narrative. Could be interesting, watching the distant London-based politicians sticking to their free-market ideology and treating Ireland as if it was any part of the Union without really understanding it. A damning portrait of colonialism. Still, just got tired of the lack of narrative. Read 36%. May go back to finish later.
A well-researched, passionate, skillfully-written account that cares more about humanity than academic fashions. It's just slightly episodic, so it misses one or two important themes and developments, and it ends before the Famine did, but a very important book for all that. Information has become more readily available since this was written, and the understanding of the structure of Irish society is more solid now than then. The Famine was an industry for a few years around 1996, so there are a lot of Famine books now, but this is still probably the best one to begin with
A horrifying catalog of government inaction and apathy toward millions of starving people.
The author also spends a great deal of time documenting the fever epidemics, and emigrations to not only the United States and Quebec but also Liverpool England.
The only slight criticism I have is that the ending of this book feels tacked on, and is an abrupt switch in tone that leaves the reader jarred.
The book ends with Queen Victoria's famous visit to Ireland in 1849 and her adoring reception by the Irish people, stating that they instantly "fell in love with each other".

Lots of people unilaterally blame the british, but it was more complicated than that.
Trevelyan was the biggest bastard of all the british bureaucrats who wanted to make sure the free market system was not altered in the least, even if it would've meant saving a million people from starvation and disease and causing another million to emigrate.
Most of the irish were too poor to go to America so they were to England instead.
The last chapter on how the irish were neutral in WW2 was interesting as it caused many deaths of british sailors because their ships were barred from docking for any reason.
A terrible but good book.
About the patato-famine in Ireland.
The book explains how it could happen and what the awful consequences were.
But the other part was about the irish people and how they lived in the country.
This part is terrible, because people were so poor they only possessed a pig and a dungheap and patatoes.
Even before the famine many people did life in mudholes without any rights.
And the only food were patatoes and buttermilk.
Maybe I'm not allowed to say it, but I recognized a lot in the irish people nowadays.
The book impressed me enormously.
For a serious work on a tragic period in Irish history, it was a very accessible read.
What was fascinating for me was that the reasons for what happened during 45-49 were many and complex - far more subtle in some cases than simply a failure of the potato crop and cruelty by UK politicians.
But the consequences of a failure of nature and of people who should care was breathtaking.Interesting for me also were the many references to the effect of the famines in Kilrush which helped make the accounts feel more real and more personal.
This really explained the Irish Potato famine.
I never knew the politics and political structure behind it and how that exacerbated the situation there.I was always curious about why the Irish were always so hated in America around the turn of the century.
Many of the Irish were shipped to America with disease and were the illiterate poor that were "kicked to the curb" by being offered free passage to American and Canada.
There they were held in quarantine where many died upon these ships from disease as they waited for their better life on shore.
