https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2426652.Celia_s_House
Scottish border countryCentered around Dunnian, a beautiful family estate in the countryside between Scotland and England, this novel follows various members of the Dunne family over about a 40 year period, beginning in 1905, when 90 year old Celia Dunne, a spinster, decides to bypass her stuffy nephew Maurice and leave her beloved home and money to her grandnephew, Humphrey, a rather poor naval officer with a wife and three small children who needs the home much more than Maurice, and who Celia trusts to treat Dunnian properly.
It's lovely to see Humphrey's family settle into their new home, especially experiencing this through 5 year old Mark's eyes.The book jumps forward in time periodically, and most of the middle section takes place in mid-1920s, when Humphrey's children are in their teens and twenties and beginning to form romantic relationships.
She saw that he loved the house too, and that he understood how wonderful it would be to raise his children there; and so she told him that she was going to disinherit the nephew she knew had plans to redevelop her property as soon as he got his hands on it, and leave it to Humphrey instead.
It becomes a family home; two more children, Billy and Celia, are born; Humphrey and Alice take in a seven-year old cousin, Debbie, when her mother remarries and follows her husband to India.This part of the story was lovely.
Dunnian is a Scottish estate that has been home to the Dunnes for generations. The story begins at the end of the 19th century with the elderly Celia and takes the family through WWII. Thoroughly enjoyable.
The funny thing is that I read this as a teenager, and I've often tried to think of the title through the years.
And...you guessed it....I rediscovered a book I read probably 30 years ago.
How fun is that?The book is an old-fashioned, comfortable read from 1943.
So, I guess people were wanting a pleasant book to escape from the war.
Celia Dunne decided to change her will to leave the family estate to her grand-nephew, skipping over a generation and ruffling a few family feathers.
But, needless to say, Humphrey and his wife are just the people to make Dunnian Estate the family home it was always meant to be.
Humphrey's wife Alice and their three children: Mark, Edith and Joyce, settle into life at Dunnian.
Years come and go, two more children are born at Dunnian and Mark learns the truth about the inheritance.
This includes the beautiful, lively Tessa and her charming brother Oliver, who come to visit their grandmother in the summer.
The plot pretty much follows Mansfield Park from the scheme of getting up the play to the end - leaving out all the extraneous bits that don't fit the 1920s plotline and leaving out nasty Mrs. Norris.
It follows Mansfield Park pretty closely but there are some changes which I really liked.
In 1905, old Celia Dunne is deciding who should inherit the family estate.
A nice little loose thread is left at the end that is pretty fitting.At the beginning, when old Celia Dunne is talking to her great-nephew, there are a couple of pretty amazing remarks she makes about things she has seen (she's nearing 100 years old) and stories that her grandparents had told her about things they had seen...these kind of conversations remind one that what we call "history" is not really all that long ago, when you start talking in terms of generations (albeit long-lived ones).
Written by a woman, in the midst of WWII Britain (or Scotland).
So sweet.
But not TOO sweet, and not too fluffy.
Stevenson does relationships pretty well.
She also does slightly to quite broken heroines pretty well (and helps them become whole again in a fairly realistic manner).
Miss Buncle's book does not follow those lines, the heroine therein has to make her own money, find her own love, and buy her own house) seems to have a sweet old lady bequeathing a really great old (family history filled) house to said heroine, which is part of what saves the day.
Well-written.
I suppose they might fit in the romance category, but in the sweet old-fashioned Anne of Green Gables or Little Women sort of way.
Enjoyed this historical read where history was in the progress of being at time of significance since it was written in 1943 during world war 2 but the book starts at 1905. A family history of Dunne's live in this house built long ago by a past family member & all the drama that goes with friends & family. It was hard to put this book down & I wanted to start this one before reading more of Listening Valley which while reading even though they say the stories are different many characters are in this book.
Another delightful book by D.E. Stevenson. I didn't want it to stop, ever!Loveable characters and a great plot in which the family house is almost a character.I can't wait to start reading Listening Valley. Although I do know it's not exactly a sequel.
An enchanting family saga that I am so fond of!
priceless.Another quote: "Finding a re-issued D.E. Stevenson novel is like finding a Tiffany lamp at Woolworth's."Synopsis:Celia Dunne owns a beautiful old home, Dunnian, in rural Scotland.
One stipulation: the family must have another girl, they must name her Celia and the house will become the property of Celia upon the death of her parents.The book is divided into four parts: Old People in the House, Children in the House, Young People in the House, and Grown-ups in the House.
And of course, because both Celia’s are such wonderful people, I enjoyed that part too.Further Reading:Celia's House inspired Listening Valley, where Celia makes a re-appearance.
The house and money is to be for his lifetime, and then should pass to the next Celia Dunne - someone as yet unborn, as Humphrey's 3 children are Mark, Joyce and Edith.
The first Celia dies, and Humphrey, Alice and their children move into the house, they have two more children, and have a neice Deb come to live with them too.
The books ends in 1942 in the middle of the second war.D E stevenson has created characters you instantly love, Dunnian house almost a character in it's own right.
I really liked this book.
The story steeped in traditions was about a family of 7 and a cousin all growing up in Dunnian.
It was a very entertaining story with laughter, joy, love, jealousy,sadness and strong family ties.
This book went quick for me and I seriously did not want it to end.
I was very surprised that it was a book published back in 1943 or 1945.
I loved most of the characters, definitely all the Dunnes and thought it a very entertaining read.
Thank you Sourcebooks and Net Galley for allowing me the opportunity to read and review this delightful story which I very much enjoyed!

LOVE this book. It was my first D. E. Stevenson and is still my favorite.
This was a fun story that told the story of a family across four decades. There was one curse word that was used about five times throughout the book so that detracted a little. Still I would read more by this author.
What a delightful book! Review coming soon.
This was so adorable. Like Rainbow Valley meets Rilla of Ingleside meets Mansfield Park. I really enjoyed it, especially the first half, with Humphrey as more of a character and when the children were small. The Mansfield Park retelling in the middle was a little overdone--I would have preferred a more subtle retelling than the scene-by-scene retelling we got--but even still, I was willing to stay up very, very late finishing it, because it was just so sweet and I liked it so much.
Re-issued from its original printing in the 1940's, the book covers several generations of the Dunne family residing at at the Dunnian estate in the U.K. When the book opens, we meet Celia, the elderly, unmarried auntie who will choose Dunnian's fate when she passes on.
While the book may seem a bit slow moving and lacking in drama for some modern readers, others will appreciate the dry wit and genteel writing.
Thank you to NetGalley and SOURCESOOKS Landmark for a galley of this book in exchange for an honest review.


I don’t think anyone can claim that D E Stevenson is a great literary talent, but what she can do – write gentle undemanding family stories - she does very well indeed. I really enjoyed this uncomplicated tale of a house and its occupants, set in Scotland, over a number of years, and with all the ups and downs of family life amidst a middle-class environment. No great dramas, no great tragedies, no literary devices or modernist twists, just a lovely tale to relax with.
I really loved this book this time through. It takes many aspects of Austen's 'Mansfield Park' - without copying it. There were a few story-lines or characters we wished she had told us more about - but a very satisfying story, that centers around an estate in Scotland. The house really is almost a character in the story, and I enjoy this type of book.
Generations of a happy family living in a big country house in Scotland? Starting in 1905? It's ever so sweet and comforting! EVER. SO! Seriously, I love these kinds of stories. Charming, warm, predictable...sometimes it's just the thing.
A clever retelling of Mansfield Park, if you pay attention to the way the characters follow the story.. Mark is Edmund, Debbie is Fannie, Tessa is Mary Crawford, Ect. However, the whole plot is not the same, and Celia has her own fresh story. Quiet good.
Another winner from D.E. Stevenson. Like Amberwell, it highlights a home in the country and the various generations that live there. No huge plot. Just her trademark cheerful conversation and interesting relationships.
An enjoyable reread! So glad Sourcebooks is bringing these books back into print. http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
Re-read as audiobook.
Celia Dunne is nearing her end.
Shes lived in the the large family house the "Dunnian" and grounds all her life and wants it to go to safe hands.
Her great nephew Humphrey on the other hand..
She presents to him her will but with one condition, of all of his children the house cannot go to the oldest son but her namesake yet unborn Celia.
And so begins the family saga of the Dunnes, their loves and lives.
Absolutely lovely warm book.
My favourite storyline was Mark and Debs.
So absolutely frustrating at times yet worth the pain.
Deb was the quiet enduring heroine.
I liked the first third or so of this novel the most.
I kept expecting bad or dreadful things to happen, some gothic tale set in the early to mid 20th century, but this isn't that sort of book at all.
It has been way too long since I read that novel to give an opinion, but the happenings certainly have a familiar feel of a period drama retold.
I have my daughter's Little House books which I have always wanted to sample and I think I will before too long.
