https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218473.A_Hole_in_Space
A Hole in Space was one of Niven's best early collections, with stories from several of his best-known and most popular universes. It can be argued that Niven was more effective in those days as a short fiction writer than he was as a novelist, because he could throw his ideas out to challenge and engage the reader without bothering overmuch with complex plot or character motivation. He was always one of the best thinking-persons writers.

Yet another freebie from the "Y".
I love their book table.
This copy was the 1974 paperback, not even sure if the book is still in print.
No ISBN barcode, the books listed in the back were only $1.25.
Two of them are basically essays about the economics of space travel, one from the standpoint of what to do when you have to rescue a lost expedition and one about how star ships can scale up in size (including Dyson spheres and Niven's own Ringworld).
The others are fictions surrounding the basic theme of teleportation and the issue that arise.
A fantastic collection of short stories - I too like the idea of displacement booths, but for the vision of wide, empty streets with no cars whizzing along them. Probably my favourite two stories were the last two - "The Hole Man" is quite a scary thought of how just a small black hole could swallow a planet, a solar system. And "The Fourth Profession" was actually quite funny.
A collection of short (and not so short) stories by Niven. Quite a few recurring themes, but all are exceptionally well written, fun, and mildly educational (although I reserve my doubts about some of his math.Also, to quote one of my friends, "heh, heh, A-hole in space".
I know I started reading Niven with a short story collection but I'm not sure if it was this or The Flight of the Horse.
When I started reading it this time around it was because a) my reading had stalled and I wanted to kick-start it with something familiar, and b)I had a hankering for a particular story (The Fourth Profession).Which might be ways of excusing the fact that this book isn't that great but I read it anyway.
It deals with the idea that in a world where you can "flick" long distances alibis almost become useless, in the time you take to pop to the loo you could travel somewhere and kill someone.
From that classic genre of the sci-fi short story collection. 3 or 4 of the stories explore developing possibilities of a kind of transporter technology, the basis of which is that instantaneous transportation makes the concept of alibis all but meaningless in crime fighting. The final story, "The Fourth Profession," starts with the idea of aliens visiting Earth and transferring knowledge via pills, but ends in an interesting exploration of what it means to be a prophet, in very much the biblical sense.
I liked the variety of stories packed into this short collection, with some "detective story" SF at the beginning and traditional space SF at the end. This type of hard science fiction almost reads like popular science in the nonfiction sense, which is really cool and an underrated element of the genre.
Read these stories as a teen back in the 70's and wondered how they held up. For the most part they did well. Still a believable, whole universe that holds together well. Some of the attitudes, especially towards women, feel a little dated. Still, if you are looking for good "hard" sci-fi I recommend.
"Rammer (story)" (this story was later expanded into the novel A World Out of Time)"The Alibi Machine""The Last Days of the Permanent Floating Riot Club""A Kind of Murder""All the Bridges Rusting""There Is a Tide" [Note 1]"Bigger Than Worlds" (essay)"$16,940.00""The Hole Man""The Fourth Profession"
The 'big concepts' explored include Bussard Ramjets, Teleportation and the societal changes they produce (he also predicts the equivalent of today's flash mobs), and a whole treatise about alternate living spaces for humans.
Will we forget the alternatives of travel modes we have today once it's been around for a while?All the Bridges Rusting - An one last teleportation story with ramjets...
inside asteroids, teraforming, dyson spheres, and of course ring worlds.$16,940.00 - very short story about blackmailThe Hole Man - short story about finding a black hole in an alien base on Mars.The Fourth Profession - A Monk (an alien of a race of interstellar traders who have the technology to teach using RNA based pills) walks into a bar...
For several years, my grandparents did next to nothing about disposing of his book collection.
I remember seeing Clausewitz and Dostoevsky in those boxes; I think Dad got those (my uncle was a Russian linguist for the Army and was stationed in Germany, where he monitored Soviet radio broadcasts from a shack on the mountain where Hansel and Gretel got lost).My first introduction to science fiction and fantasy was through his books, many of which I eventually inherited.
They say the Golden Age of science fiction is 12; for me it was 14, and it was because of this book from my uncle's collection.
Contains a Nebula winning short story, "The Hole Man." It is certainly questionable whether it is the best work in the collection...First thing I've read by Niven outside of The Mote in God's Eyeand the disappointing sequel.
Not that used to character's in books I read spouting off "six point eight-oh-nine times ten to the negative thirty-first." But other than that, a pretty enjoyable read.Most stories based off this "hole in space" idea, that is vastly different than the hole created in the Nebula winner story.
The hole in space allows for instant teleportation.
I am not a fan of short stories to begin with, so this book started off in the hole.
Niven is just too technical for me.
I am not a physicist, an engineeer, nor a scientist and I think you must be one of these professions to truly understand or appreciate most of Niven's short stories.
Funny enough, the only story I really liked was The Fourth Profession...the last one in the book.
Now when he pairs up with Jerry Pournelle the end results are fantastic.
And in his novels he takes the time to develop characters and plot lines that do not depend solely on science.
This outstanding short story collection mostly contains stories that are set in deep space, as opposed to his other collections where the setting tends to be planetbound. The first is the excellent “Rammer” (which formed the basis for A World Out of Time), in which a man revived from cryogenic sleep is forced to pay his debt to society by going on a centuries long mission to “seed” potential colony worlds. There is also an essay on space habitats, including Niven’s Ringworld concept.http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=1079
A solid short story collection focused on the ramifications of teleportation technology. In particular, the amusing idea that ready access to teleporting would allow you to commit crimes from very far away--the police refer to the machine as the alibi box.As usual, Niven does a great job building solid, believable characters and dancing them around the central conceit of the story. I particularly liked the final story with the visiting aliens. He does use an idea that I've read in the novel A MOTE IN GOD'S EYE, the laser-driven space ship.Worth a read.
This is that rare book of stories by a single author where every one is a little better than the one before it -- and for no other reason than that you've just grown to love the book so much. Larry Niven usually throws some very intelligent humor into his stories, and that humor is hilariously apparent in two of the stories in this collection: A Kind of Murder and The Fourth Profession (which concludes the book, and is a novella, to boot.)Lots of fun to read, and typically illuminating as Niven is.
Colección de historias cortas que en ocasiones se hacen algo repetitivas, además de haber envejecido algo mal con el tiempo. La primera parte trata de viajes interestelares y teleportación, luego se pone con un ensayo algo pesado y desfasado sobre astrofísica, exploración espacial, diásporas, esferas Dyson, etc y acaba con una curiosa historia sobre "los visitantes ya están aquí". Se deja leer, pero no es Asimov ni Clarke.
This is the first Larry Niven book I've read in a long time and it reminded me of how good a writer he is. This book is a collection of short stories somewhat connected to each other(by the technological developments integrated into each). I found each story well written and I would recommend this book as a good intro to Larry Niven if you haven't read him previously.
It gets harder and harder to find Larry Niven shorts that I have not already read - This is a nice variety of quick reads - I kept my copy next to my bed at night, and read till I couldnt keep my eyes open before going to sleep.It wouldnt be anything for someone to just sit down and read - they would finish in no time, and I think they would enjoy it quite a bit, I know I did.
It's a kind of a mixed bag. Rammer is flat-out brilliant, an archetype-establisher, hauntingly identifiable with and memorable, simple and vast. The Alibi Machine, interesting but a little convoluted. The rest are classic Niven, lots of hard science and thought experiments. Decent read.
Niven's Known Space short stories are his best work, and this compilation has tons of good stuff.I'd recommend reading Ringworld first if you're a Known Space noob.A must read for hard scifi fans.
Full of so many fun stories with thoughts about how the future changes with crazy technology and fun aliens.Certainly made me contemplate lots of possibilities.
Larry Niven is the John Grisham of science fiction. Heis very good on plot and genre detail but not so good on character. Rereading these classic stories was a lot of fun.
Niven always delivers cool adventures in exciting worlds!
Perfectly serviceable SF.
Niven is definitely one of my favorites. Not every story is stellar, but they're all good.
A Hole in Space by Larry Niven (1986)
Great compilation of short stories - I especially thought the stories about the implications of widespread teleportation devices were fascinating.
Collected stories and essays
