https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14268.The_Atom_Station
Anyway, if you have an interest in Cold War geopolitics, this makes for a fascinating case study from the very edge of Europe, where the clash between East and West, between capitalism and communism, underlies every conversation in the book.Into this febrile environment comes our naïve, ingenuous narrator Ugla (‘owl’ – actually a direct cognate of the English word), who has travelled to Reykjavík from the rural north to work as a housemaid for a government minister.

„(…) das isländische Talent aus den alten Sagas, im Spott über das zu sprechen, was ihrem Herzen am nächsten stand (…)“ (Laxness in ATOMSTATION)Die ATOMSTATION hat gewiß literarische Qualitäten, die dem Roman auch noch eine Daseinsberechtigung geben, nachdem das Zeitgeschehen, um das es geht - Island "verkauft" sich an die USA, indem es Land zur Errichtung eines Atomwaffenstützpunktes verkauft - samt dem Kalten Krieg der Vergangenheit angehört; Friedhelm Rathjen hat dieses in einem Funkfeature 1992 schön belegt.Meine deutlich weniger euphorische Bewertung ist rein subjektiv zu verstehen und hat damit zu tun, dass satirische Texte nicht eben meine Leidenschaft sind und ich auch vorzugsweise Romane lese, in denen der politische Bezug nicht im Vordergrund steht.
Die Charaktere (gewollt holzschnittartig) überzeugen nicht, eingeschobene Diskurse erscheinen oft willkürlich, die Polarisierung zwischen reich/kapitalistisch/korrupt/konservativ und einfach/kommunistisch/avantgardistisch ist so vorhersehbar, belehrend und öde, dass man nicht weiterlesen mag.
Man erkennt das Gewollte: Die Stereotypen, das Parabelhafte, das Satirische – aber die Umsetzung ist so wenig gelungen, dass ich beim Lesen zunehmend genervt war und nach 72 Seiten nicht weiterlesen wollte.Eine Bewertung mag ich gar nicht abgeben: Weil ich das Buch nicht zu Ende las, aber auch weil ich fürchte, es könnte andere Ursachen für meine Abneigung geben: Würde ein gründlicheres Wissen über den Autor den Zugang erleichtern?
L'Islanda sta acquisendo benessere e le persone si arricchiscono; questo miglioramento materiale è controbilanciato dalla perdita dei valori tradizionale (rappresentati dal nord agricolo abitato da contadini poveri ai limiti della sussistenza) che ormai non sono più in grado di guidare le persone nelle loro scelte.
In questo contesto incerto si muove la protagonista del romanzo, Ugla, trasferitasi nella capitale per lavorare come cameriera in una ricca famiglia e imparare a suonare l'organo; quello che scoprirà è un mondo fatto di contraddizioni e ipocrisie, dove i giovani non hanno nessuna guida nei loro genitori (o negli adulti in generali), essendo questi alle prese con la loro realizzazione personale.
The world she finds herself in piles seeming irrationality on absurdity: the political right claims to be defending the nation while selling it off, the Communists demand a world class alliance but seem obsessed with small and local issues (such as a day care centre) and the protests in the streets have no identifiable group participants.
That is not to say this is a conservative nationalist novel; Laxness unpacks power in a manner that resembles the great critical realists of the mid 20th century with Steinbeck’s sensitivity to the tales of ordinary life and Traven’s subtle politics of resistance and integrity.
Laxness writes about the phony businesses with impressive front ends, befuddling investors and customers with hot air: "F.F.F.: in English, the Federation of Fulminating Fish, New York; in Icelandic, the Figures-Faking-Federation.
Today, Keflavik's US air base - the "atom station" in Laxness' novel - is no more.
The Icelandic government's policy of selling off these reserves to the lowest (!) bidder, i.e. to extremely energy intensive industries such as aluminium refineries, is as controversial today as the establishment of a US air base was in the 1940s.
A-mazing.
Icelandic Beat style meets the native heroic poetic.
Favorite quotes (that aren't so odd you'll still understand them):"That's just like you northerners, to start talking to people," said the cook when I returned to the kitchen.Rebellion stirred in me and I replied, "I am people."----"We prised up one of the planks of the lid with a crowbar, and I groped among the packing for the contents; and what did I pull out but a small tin, about 200 grams in weight, wrapped in semi-transparent paper?
Ugla is an uneducated, but intelligent, 20 year old from the North of Iceland.
She meets a cadre of strange friends who are a mix of philosophers, a hustler, musicians, policemen, a prostitute and idealistic communists.The writing at times is quite strange but otherwise it paints a picture of Iceland in 1948, grappling with the cold war, the impact of consumerism, and the move away from traditional values.
It could be read as being cynical but I thought Laxness was just telling the truth through a great, strong female character and her conversations.
It also gives great respect to the Sagas, writers and people of the past.
"You should compose a ballad about Du Pont and his atom bomb." "I know what I'm going to do," said the god Brilliantine.
I'm going to become a Minister and swear on oath; and get a decoration." "You two are slipping," said the organist.
To become a political success a man needs to have a millionaire.
"Yes, but it does you not the slightest bit of good if you have lost your millionaire," said the organist.
"So you think I shouldn't bother to divorce my wife?" asked the god.
This had a lighter and more humane touch than I was expected ; in some ways it was almost touching, which is not what you normally expect from satire.
Satire, indeed, is a baffling form.
Maybe it's potentially all these things, and the examples I've read and haven't much liked, like Scoop, are just not particularly successful books.
Maybe some books just go into the fish-in-a-barrel category regardless of form.
Ugla, whose name means 'owl' in Icelandic, is a metaphor for her namesake, wise and acutely observant of the folly and mayhem around her.It is amazing that this book was written in 1948, for it almost reads as a satire on the events in recent years, and not just those before and during Iceland's banking crisis.
Ugla herself is atypical of female characters of that time, with a steadfast determination of being her own person unbound by any domestic subserviance, or in thrall to any man.Like all Laxness's books, I look forward to re-reading this treasure several times in the future.
The premise of "The Atom Station" is pretty much a Northerner girl moves to the capital in the South to take up a position as a glorified maid in a politically and educationally powerful family, and to use this position as an opportunity to learn how to become a worldly woman.
While "The Atom Station" did its job for me, providing me an insight into the Icelandic people (in particular, providing a unique insight into the strength and power of Icelandic women) the text is clearly one of Laxness' weaker works.
The communists do not want the country sold; they want free nurseries for children and a youth assembly hall, the organ teacher is a philosopher that has a senile mother that offers strange tidbits to guests, and a couple of gods make appearances, one sings verse while the other plays a salted fish… This book had me spinning.I read a review of this book just now at Amazon and one critic gave the book 1 star because, as the he says, “Halldor Laxness is a world-class writer as his masterpieces like Independent People and The Fish Can Sing demonstrate.
I could see that it was a satire on post WWII Icelandic society and politics, and an exploration of the north-south divide, the contrast between town and country, rich and poor, and so on, but I found it hard to engage with any of the characters or in fact care about the Iceland depicted in the novel.
But I found it all pretty tedious and didn’t care about anyone, not even Ugla herself, who seems quite a cold and distant protagonist.
It’s an interesting look at Icelandic society at particular place and time, but I want more from a novel than a historical snapshot, and this one didn’t hold my attention.
This book is a treasure I'm willing to re-read. It's a political satire, filled with so much witticism and poetry that it made me savour every phrase. I really like Laxness' style and it is amazing that the characteristics of the political class described at that time can be applied nowadays. Even more surprising to me was Ugla's determination to find herself, to learn and become someone through her own will and power, to become independent. Will definitely read more by Laxness, it seems I just discovered "a new taste bud" :)
Една смущаващо добра книга от автор, когото не познавах. Историята е едновременно странна, но и напълно обичайна. Младата жена Йогла, дошла от бедния север на Исландия, започва работа в богаташки дом. Мечтае да се научи да свири на орган, за да може да свири в църквата, която баща ѝ строи. Предстои да опознае семейството на своите работодатели, да се срещне с колоритни и странни образи.Чрез героите си Лакснес определено ни кара да се замислим върхи някои неща от живота. Прекрасен роман.
Laxness writes sharp observations and lovely turns of phrase, but painfully unconvincing characters. I know this is satire, but man - everybody's either wildly unpredictable or paper thin.
Decent pinch of Cold War satire, with the Icelandic bourgeois proclaiming even raffle tickets to be communist plots, and a nice amount of rumination on what it means to be free.
I am a huge fan of Halldór Laxness, and The Atom Station doesn't disappoint.
Once more, drama blends effortlessly with wry humour, and the story and its characters held my interest from start to finish.
You get the impression that Laxness has a deep understanding of human nature.
As a shorter work, this might be a nice one to start with for those new to his books.
I am fast running out of translated works of his to read.
I shall be sad once I have finished and will have to work hard to improve my Icelandic so I can read more.
If now there arose new politicians to sell their country, they would not believe it even though they saw it, but would forgive the crime with an historical forgiveness again when their descendants had struggled for another 700 years." His characters, politics and presentation call Brecht to mind in this novel.The theme of belief occurs again in the incident of the repatriated bones, which turn out to have been shipped in two crates from Denmark, one of which contained tins of Portuguese sardines, and the other Danish clay.
The theme of independence is less developed than in Independent People, and that of selling the country and its artistic inheritance is considered more deeply in Iceland's Bell, yet The Atomic Station has its own point of view, and is well worth reading by any who appreciated those books.There are some wonderful episodes, typical of Laxness's humor, for instance (mini-spoiler alert) when the church that the maid's father is building with his infinitesimal community is finally completed, it is discovered that the requisite image of Jesus above the altar has been replaced by a large window, so that the congregation can contemplate the hillside.
Maar in mijn beleving is het nog meer dan dat: het is voor mij vooral een boek dat door zijn mafheid een statement maakt tegen welke orde dan ook.
En dat is in mijn beleving dan geen lol om de lol, althans niet alleen dat, maar ook een poging om nieuwe kunstvormen te vinden in een wereld waarin de normale kunst (en ook de conventionele politiek) zijn functie verloren heeft.Dat volkomen onconventionele karakter van deze experimentele kunstenaars is in mijn beleving bovendien kenmerkend voor "The atom station" als geheel.
In Iceland after World War II, proud of its independence as well as full of contradictions and prey of greedy and unscrupulous politicians, Ugla dribble with grace all the traps in wich can fall a naive peasant (yes, ok, you she find herself with a illegitimate daughter, but Ugla knows the value of life and knows that is greater than that of social conventions), to become a person, to be responsible for herself and his own destiny, picture of what should be a modern nation.Although it was written in 1948, the book is fresh and full of humor, as only a really great writer can produce.Thank Open Road Integrated Media and Netgalley for giving me a free copy in exchange for an honest review.Ugla è una Candide islandese, una ragazza cresciuta a saghe e buon senso in una società che viene considerata arcaica ma è più aperta, nei costumi e nel pensiero, di quella ufficiale.
But on the other hand, it's also the funniest one I've read so far.
The eldest son, who was a full-time employee of Universal Suffering, Inc., contented himself with throwing me a look of mingled pity and nausea.”---"'He grows flowers,' I said.'That's nice,' said the Doctor.
I can remember him saying that he was going to save the war news for himself until, after twenty years, it would be possible to read about the whole war in two minutes in an encyclopedia.
I am glad he grows flowers.'"
DNF. After 50% read, I still do not have a clue what is really going on. I fear the superficial story is without purpose if one does not understand the subject matter and context for the satire - and I have not that necessary understanding.
This was one of many surprises in The Atom Station - a brief insight into post-war Iceland through the eyes of a country woman in the city.
The writing is quirky and funny with memorable characters, one of which is most definitely Nature and the Icelander's relationship with it feature heavily.
There's also some beautiful passages about trying to capture the essence of nature: birds being painted are trapped in a canvas and so all painted birds must appear dead.
Fruit-blood may also be one of the most beautiful names for a voracious young woman I’ve seen yet.
Like in almost all of Laxness' work, there are many memorable characters, but in this book almost all of them are saddled with the responsibility to blurt out precious generalizations about the state of the world with only the slightest of provocations.
Buried within are a handful of vintage Laxness insights, my favorite in this book being his description of a wealthy young woman who had lost her will to party, as "youth's faith in something new and unique had turned into everyday bread-slavery." But to find these gems required slogging though a lot of slop.
Definitely not the first book to begin Icelandic literature with!
I was very excited when I picked it up in a bookshop after reading its plot, and although the topic of building an atom station in Iceland after the 2nd World War and all the political play that surrounds it is a catching tale, it is by far not well enough told.
Yet, this book has really compelled me to read more Icelandic stories, perhaps that way I will begin to see The Atom Station in a different light as well..

