https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26856502-vengeful
I know he’s all-too-powerful and doesn’t really need me to, but it just feels like the right thing to do.Victor Vale is one of the most interesting and complex characters I’ve ever come across.
While I've enjoyed a number of Schwab's books, I feel like her strongest writing and characters lie here with Victor and Eli. These "villains" are actually complex antiheroes - murderous and power-hungry, for sure, but also sympathetic and even likeable.
I love it when an author can take an exhausted topic and breathe new life into it.In this book, new characters emerge to make the fight even bigger than before.
Never has the phrase “the past is catching up with you” been more appropriate.Between the new characters causing havoc and the inevitable confrontation between Eli and Victor, this book is just so addictively good.
One day I will be finished writing/rewriting this book.ETA: HAH. I DEFEATED YOU, BOOK MONSTER.ETA: Holy shit, VENGEFUL is up for a Goodreads Choice Award!! If you follow me at all online, you know what this book took from me in terms of blood, sweat, tears, and sanity, and how proud I am of the finished product. I'd be honored to have your vote!
I want to thrive.”Am I Victor Vale yet cause I can assure you that I died several times during the course of this book.After wiping cold sweat off my forehead and 5 minutes of deep and thorough breathing exercises I am relieved and happy to tell you that I loved Vengeful.
Don't get me wrong, I loved the first book, but that was the exact reason why I wanted it to keep being a standalone novel.
Her writing, her characters, her stories are exceptional.
I want them to stay safe forever.Vengeful introduced me to Marcella, whom I loved from the very beginning.
Okay. I'm gonna be a big brave girl and say it. This wasn't that great. There, I said it.  Phew. That was a hard one to admit. I mean-yes, I liked it. -yes, Victoria Schwab could write assembly instructions and I'd still read every word like it was prose. -yes, it was great to be back into the Villains universe. -yes, it was entertaining and made me lose my mind. -and yes, I still think Mitch should adopt us all. But I can't say I loved Vengeful as much as I loved Vicious because it'd be a lie.
I mean-yes, I liked it.
-yes, Victoria Schwab could write assembly instructions and I'd still read every word like it was prose.
-yes, it was great to be back into the Villains universe.
And what a slip.Don't get me wrong, Vengeful is still far from the tragedy that are many overhyped sequels out there, and I've still loved parts of it that I'll maybe gush about once the spoiler alert is at its minimum, but I still think Vicious was better.
@ Victoria Schwab, I still love you to pieces.Please, don't ever stop writing.Please, don't hate me.

: The Syd/Victor scene on the balcony, the tea shop scene with Syd & June, and the scene in which a brick almost falls on Marcella all stuck out in my head in different ways.VENGEFUL's three female leads are a woman who can ruin anything--and anyone--she touches, a living voodoo doll, and a girl who can resurrect the dead.
All that is fantastic, but besides my absolute love for the writing, why did I read this so quickly and become so enthralled?
I've always thought Eli made a fantastic villain, but his character writing here really hit a STRIDE.
Guys, get ready...
theres nothing quite like reading about a bunch of sociopaths to make you feel good about your life.
additionally, theres nothing like enjoying a book about sociopaths to make you feel the need to re-evaluate your life.
the brilliance of schwabs storytelling?
or quite possibly the fact that i HAVE A CRUSH ON ELI?!
eli and victor definitely deserved to be the focus of this book at all times.
i think these additional characters were added to set up for another book (maybe?
schwab.
I know Victor Vale is real because this book made me feel all kinds of pain
Update: Verily, that the sequel to Vicious is titled Vengeful is a beautiful case of both alliteration and sinister phrasing. Then again, it is Victor Vale, so perhaps poetry and peril were par for the course.
Full review and other non-spoilery reviews can be found @The Book PrescriptionActual Rating: 4.5 starsVictoria Schwab liked my tweetMy life is complete!!
OHMYGODTHIS F*CKING BOOKSomeone pls kill me as this book is making me suffer inside And then bring me back to life bc I want superpowers Anyways RTC.
Marcella is wickedly beautiful and so Slytherin afjdksald I absolutely loved her.
But she looks out for Sydney and plays all sides and LOVE HER.Basically this:Schwab: here is a new backstabbing Slytherin characterMe: LOVE !!
(Ok Mitch and Sydney are Hufflepuffs, but still.)Eli and Victor actually don't feature as much?
Well Victor is dying and trying to find a cure and Eli is in prison but working with Stell.
Tbh, I don't see a difference between Eli and Victor.
It felt like his character just stagnated?
So, I read the prologue whilst waiting for a friend and my. Mind. Was. Blown. Need to chop chop-it and reread Vicious already!—————————————————— I can't breathe...This calls for a moment of silence.
i just have one question, what in the hell just happened?that is allIm simultaneously destroyed and yet so fulfilled and content at this endingI cant believe this story is over for the time being, I genuinely felt like I was living with them GOSH DAMMIT- I cant even begin to describe what this book did to me- Victor vale: a madman, book defiler, a soft dad, just wants to feel alive again and honestly relatable- Mitch: a marshmallow that got stuck inside a rugby player’s body, the other soft dad,
i just have one question, what in the hell just happened?that is allIm simultaneously destroyed and yet so fulfilled and content at this endingI cant believe this story is over for the time being, I genuinely felt like I was living with them GOSH DAMMIT-	I cant even begin to describe what this book did to me-	Victor vale: a madman, book defiler, a soft dad, just wants to feel alive again and honestly relatable-	Mitch: a marshmallow that got stuck inside a rugby player’s body, the other soft dad, but hes softer, secret genius-	(the hot chocolate and grilled cheese scene!!!!!)-	Sydney: my daughter, perpetually smol, she just wants the best for everyone, love animals, wants friends.
In Vengeful, this type of dynamic takes place between Victor & Eli; they've been apart for 5 years and don't reunite until the climax, but we get all the feels from their friendship/enmity.
With the time-skipping format of this series, we learn Marcella's life story, which sets up an amazing character arc.
I spent 2 hours today just thinking intensely about Victoria's statements in this book about power and how it corrupts.
AM I DREAMING?? One of my all-time favourite books gets a sequel?!This is too good to be true.What I want to know is when? WHEN?
I was happy with the story, so very happy, but once Marcella (a new addition AKA the lady on the cover) mutinied and became the star of the show, around the 50% mark, I found myself dreading reading this.I don't want this to be a long review so I'm going to be more brief than I usually am, especially when I have so many feelings.
While the new powers were interesting, I was constantly confused about the state of clothing in regards to June's ability.
If she wants a specific outfit, does she have to go looking for someone wearing it?Jonathan, another new addition, started out as a real person and literally became a cardboard cutout (okay not literally but pretty darn close).
this.......................... was everything i wanted, truly.i don't know how schwab does it but somehow she just manages to wrap her series up so perfectly. i loved every single word in this book, i lived and breathed victor, syd, mitch and even eli, i clutched my heart so many times i lost count. I LOVE THIS BOOK WITH EVERY PART OF MY SOUL I JUST WANT TO SCREAM IT INTO THE WORLD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!i'm so filled with love and pain, i don't even know how to put any of it into words.  i feel like no
i loved every single word in this book, i lived and breathed victor, syd, mitch and even eli, i clutched my heart so many times i lost count.
it's just so much fun to follow these deliciously complex, real, carefully crafted characters along on their journey, and schwab just manages to make you feel for them.♦ Victor fucking Valefirst of all, i want victor vale to roundhouse kick me in the face.
all throughout the book she was made up to be this powerful, invincible woman and then she just dies rather quickly and unspectacularly (hide spoiler)]i would've loved to see even more of her.♠ Eli Everi can't believe schwab actually made me sympathize with him, what kind of sick manipulation bullshit is this
I finished this book over a week ago and have procrastinated this review because I AM STILL completely S H O O K. It took a while to put my thoughts together. And I will now attempt to express my love for this book and all these kick-ass characters, who are all so dear to me.  SPOILERS BELOW The five year time jump came as a surprise, though not an unwelcome one. Throughout the book there was plenty time jumping and changing of POV, but I managed to keep up and I didn't mind. After the end of Vi
And I will now attempt to express my love for this book and all these kick-ass characters, who are all so dear to me.
After the end of Vicious, when Sydney resurrects Victor, everything is good for a while.
Mitch and Sydney shouldn’t have come at all, but Victor had long given up trying to dissuade them.
Mitch ( who is my favourite Schwab character) is Sydney and Victor's anchor in Vengeful.
Sydney finds out that Victor killed Serena.
And if there's another book, I'd really love to know more about Victor's childhood and past.
Ms Victoria Schwab really sat down, opened her laptop, and wrote THIS? Knowing full well people like ME would have to read it and cry and suffer?? 911 I’d like to report an attempted murder. Sometimes a family is: your angst emo super power dad who’s doing his best, your sweet hot chocolate making uncle whos job is to tell the family not to do bad things and you, the adopted child who loves undead dogs and thinks it’s kinda cool ur dad kills people
El libro me gustó, me entretuvo, pero no me pareció tan bueno como Vicious.
Me hace pensar que va a haber una tercera parte (porque si fueron solo dos libros, y ese es el final-FINAL, pues no me gustó).Como siempre, amo a los personajes de Victor y Eli. Sydney me sorprendió.
A Marcella la amé, se me hizo buena villana, pero June me dio igual, no sé, no me terminó de gustar el personaje.EHHHH Y NO SÉ QUÉ MÁS DECIR POR AHORA.
Es un buen libro, pero ayyy, Vicious se hubiera quedado como autoconclusivo, siento que esta secuela no era necesaria.
*Sigh* This was great. Such a satisfying end to a wholly enjoyable duology. Or is it? JK, but I'm always hopeful that authors will return to my favorite worlds to continue stories on, even if it be through supporting character's stories. Marcella and June were exciting additions to the cast, and my mind is blown by how intricately the timelines were weaved together to keep our attention grasped. Highly recommend these books to folks who enjoy deep character studies of characters that are beyond the surface definition of evil.
Calling a temporary DNF at 75% (my first ever official DNF). This was a fiasco. An absolute clusterfuck.
VENGEFUL? OMG YES-------Three words. MORE VICTOR VALEbye.
MORE.The new characters made it all the more interesting, certain developments made it all the more intense, stakes were higher, characters' morals more messed up...I could say so much more about it yet at the same time I don't know what to say.Not that I ever had any doubts, but that the sequel to my favorite book turned out THIS good, easily became a favorite itself, brings (happy) tears to my eyes, tbh.
This book gave us tons of backstory on Eli, back to his childhood and his early days at Lockland with Victor.
I have a couple of theories about her, and since we didn't really get many answers, I suspect there will be a third book (I'd heard it might be a possibility, but now I'm sure haha).-This book is quite a bit darker than Vicious.
So there was less Eli, less Victor, and less focus on Syd/Mitch/Dol. There were just too many characters.-The plot.
At times the plot could be interesting, but for the most part it was quite repetitive (view spoiler)[ Victor dies.
🤯 🤯. This book, and its predecessor, is recommended for readers of Fantasy and those who love superheroes. So, basically everyone? RTC.
Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Tumblr | Youtube | Twitch
“Every end is a new beginning.” I can’t put in words how much I adore these books. I would honestly recommend this to every single person in existence.I read Vicious a couple of days ago. I couldn't control myself and dived into this on the weekend. Victoria Schwab managed to give us the most complex story about Villains there is, and I loved every minute of it!█████████████ Ignorance █████████████Is ███████████████████████████████████████████████ only ███████████████ bliss █████████████████If
Victoria Schwab managed to give us the most complex story about Villains there is, and I loved every minute of it!█████████████ Ignorance █████████████Is ███████████████████████████████████████████████ only ███████████████ bliss █████████████████If you █████████████████████████████████████████████ want ███████to █████████████ get ███████████████████ caught ███████████████So, thanks to Sydney, Victor is back but not without consequence.
It isn't everyday where you read a story from the villains point of view, and I love that Schwab doesn't try to justify what he’s doing.Sydney is quite grown in this one.
It got quite annoying after a while, and I wanted nothing more than for Sydney to be with Victor and Mitch.
