https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835434.August_Folly
August Folly is one of Angela Thirkell's highly entertaining Barsetshire books set in Britain during the 1930s. This one involves a collection of country families, at least 2 Jane Austen references, a summer holiday production of the Greek play Hippolytus by Euripides, and the misunderstandings of several young couples as they fall in love.
What a lovely book.Wonderful characters including a donkey called Modestine and a cat who's name is Gunnar.I loved the dialogue between them.I've often wondered what animals think!I just love these books which are told with wit and charm.A bygone era of class and manners.Highly recommended!I do hope that Virago are going to re print some more of these wonderful novels.It seems I can't get enough of them.
I have been meaning to try Angela Thirkell’s books for a while but only just got down to it.
I am glad that this was the one I started with.
I only heard of Thirkell when I looked up her brother Denis Mackail (who was Kipling’s cousin (as was she), and wrote books that Wodehouse wished he’d written).
I will be looking for more by her.p.s. And I completely forgot to mention the cat Gunnar and the donkey Modestine have some interesting chats on the antics of their humans.
Young Richard Tebben is home after failing his final exams at Oxford.
Their scholarly parents have little time for them and Richard likes it that way.
The Deans have 9 children and 6 are with them: Laurence, the eldest son and former cricket player now busy in his father's office; Helen, the automobile lover; Betty, the scholar; Susan and Robin, a pair of mischievous youngsters and little Jessica.
Laurence loves Margaret Tebben who regards him as a friend and Mrs. Palmer has a scheme that will involve most of them.
Richard and Margaret don't take after their parents at all.
I love Angela Thirkell world.
Witty and charming.I really admire British writers that they are able to create such critical study of society (nation) in such way.
Not with pathos and drama but in a funny, enjoyable way (but also not stupid, simple).
This is exactly why I am Anglophile.One of the strongest points of the book were characters, generally likeable but not perfect, everyone had some own problems, scars.I would have liked to have more of romance in Thirkell's novels, more interactions between lovers because she knew how to create a lovely scene.
Comparing to many, many novels it was brilliant and amazing.
Wanda McCadden did a wonderful narration of this early entry in Angela Thirkell's Barsetshire series! The eccentric characters, especially Mrs. Tebbens, amuse me hugely and I found that knowing the plot from my previous reading didn't detract from my enjoyment. Great light-hearted summer book!By the way, this book works well as a stand-alone novel. However, having now read the whole series, I did notice passing references to characters from the other books that I missed the first time around which increased my delight in the book.
It would be easy for characters in this type of comic novel to be caricatures, but Thirkell never falls into that trap; her characters have dark sides as well as surface sillinesses.
Like Jane Austen she has a waspish humour which is well deployed in this book, particularly on the male characters ("Mr Fanshawe, who like most of his sex would enthusiastically neglect any woman, however charming, to talk to any man, however dull" is worthy of Austen herself).
The conversations between cat and donkey were a touch of whimsy too far, but this novel is a short, entertaining read -- great as padding between more serious works.
There is nothing quite so nice as reading an entire book, cover to cover, in a single rainy Saturday.And Angela Thirkell is, apparently, an excellent choice for this: light without being trashy. She has an eagle eye for her characters' flaws, but she also treats them with great empathy, and seems to wish them well. Her novels will never be big books, but they are well worth reading, and I will be saving the rest of the library's stock as a treat for future rainy Saturdays.
I love Thirkell and this is an especially good summer read. And the audio book was delightful!
3.5 stars. Review to come, hopefully.
Having just finished several fairly dark "reads" in a row, I needed some fluffy sweet literary sorbet to clear my palate for the next serious volume on my shelf.
I was pretty sure that Angela Thirkell would provide exactly what I needed, and she did.
Her characters concentrate on minutia, and things usually work out happily.
Adorable.Of her books, I truly love "Pomfret Towers" (which soothes my soul because the characters are so NICE)and "Peace Breaks Out"(because of its interesting homefront setting.) One thing I must say about "August Folly"-- or at least about the copy I read, printed by Moyer Bell-- I have never read a book with so MANY typographical errors!
The story was light and frothy, with some shining moments.
There were some cute scenes, often involving Modestine the donkey.
Unfortunately I just could not buy into the story line of a 19 year old student being infatuated with a 51 year old woman with 9 (!!) children, some several years older than himself, no matter how beautiful she was.
Another romance between a young woman and a man twice her age was similarly not very appealing.
Also, all of the younger adults seemed remarkably childish.
I have only read one other novel by this writer, High Rising, which I much preferred.
It is tempting to categorize this as light-weight book with two main functions: to entertain and the second to sketch in more completely the existing characters that make up the cast of the Bartsetshire novels and to add a few more members to that cast.Those functions may have been the conscious intentions of the author however August Follyleaves the modern day reader with a carefully sketched picture of the realities of provincial life among the English gentry in the 1930s.
Highly entertaining light Summer reading.
Frothy and funny. Ideal reading for a summer's day.
Not quite 3 starsThis book is number 4 in the Barsetshire series.
I read it right after I finished reading the 1st book in the series 'High Rising'.
Both books stand completely on their own, and do not need to be read in any particular order.I did not like this one as much as 'High Rising'.
Her character Richard felt quite ignorant when it was pointed out to him that Modestine was named after the donkey in the "famous book by RLS".
I, too, felt ignorant because I had never heard of the aforementioned book.This novel was a bit of an uphill struggle for me.
This would have been a three star if it were not for the last thirty pages which were absolutely wonderful!This is one of the earlier novels in Thirkell's lovely Barsetshire series, and the fourth one that I have read.
However, his character did get a lot better towards the end of the novel.Overall this was a highly enjoyable instalment in the Barsetshire series, and I'd recommend it for anyone who loves romantic socio-comedies focused on middle-class families in 1930s Britain!
Charming story of 2 families and the neighborhood of their summer retreat. Spoiled Richard, who did badly at Oxford in spite of his intellectual parents. His sister, dutiful, neglected Margaret who has grown up nicely in other people's homes. Beautiful, universally loved Mrs. Dean, and her nine children. The local J.P.'s wife, so determined to produce Greek plays that she ropes her neighbors into acting. An individualistic, 20-year-old donkey and his feline friend. Out of a bubbling brew of personalities comes a group who grow more likeable as they get to know themselves. My favorite novel so far this year.
I discovered Angela Thirkell completely by accident. Thrashing around the library looking for something to listen to while running, I chanced across August Folly in a playaway edition. What a treat! The characters engaged me immediately and I had to get the book because listening to it wasn't fast enough--I couldn't wait to see how this comedy of manners played out. I felt like I was reading a collaboration between Jane Austen and Miss Read. Charming romance, wonderful humor, memorable characters. And if you do listen to it, the reader, Wanda McCaddon, was wonderful as well.
The story of a summer in the village of Worsted, on the outskirts of Winter Overcotes and not far from Winter Underclose... Primarily the story of the family Tebbens -- father (scholarly and downtrodden), mother (scholarly but domestically a disaster), son (college-aged, ashamed of his family), and daughter (generally overlooked by the rest of the family).
Not quite as riveting as "Summer Half", but still a very enjoyable read. There's romance, calf love, precocious children, misunderstandings, fussy middle-aged ladies (really, some of them seem quite familiar ...), all the trimmings - and a happy ending for all. Liked it a lot.
Takes a while to get used to the characters and to find out that they're generally likeable, because most of them have issues. Lots of people to keep track of. Wasn't sure how much I was enjoying it at least a third of the way through, but it ended well.
Angela Thirkell's novels offer just the sort of light entertainment you need when life gets too busy. I'm currently in that phase, and at the end of each stressful day I enjoy escaping into English country life as described with great intelligence and wit by this prolific author. I can read a Thirkell novel in two or three evenings, but fortunately she has written several dozen so I won't run out any time soon!
I didn't like this as well as I have the first 2 AT books I have read. It was way too similar in terms of character and plot. This is the 3rd book that a callow rather silly young man has fallen for a much older woman. Only in this one the young man was pretty unpleasant. There were really not any lovable characters in this one, in my view, to rescue the not very interesting bones that the plot is hung on. It resulted in losing my attention from time to time while listening. **2.5** stars.
Not my favourite but still an enjoyable trip back to Barsetshire. https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/1...
They might be solemn about it and anyway it was not one’s own fault.”Perhaps an infatuation with a mother of nine children is just the ticket for Richard’s growth and maturity.The Deans are visiting their relatives in the small town of Worsted.
It went against the grain, but he had to.”Mr. Moxon, who had never before sat at a murderer’s table, said he was grieved to hear it but, things were better now, implying to the fury of the young Deans, that their father’s departure had considerably raised the moral tone of the place.”Thirkell's light, frothy novels often have all their loose, tangled ends satisfyingly and with subtle humor, tied up by the final chapters.
In fact, if Stars Hollow (of Gilmore Girls fame) was transported back in time to the 1930's, and moved across the Pond and 60 miles west of London, it would be Worsted village, the setting of AUGUST FOLLY.
To be more specific about other likenesses would potentially ruin the plot of this novel.AUGUST FOLLY is a quaint, sugary-sweet, easy-reading novel that is perfect for summertime.
Each of the characters has their own follies, and finding out how they are (or are not) resolved is a delight.
I have now read everything by Angela Thirkell in the "Barsetshire series" that I can find on Kindle.David Byrne and Jerry Harrison wrote this: "Heaven is a place where nothing ever happens."That's why I enjoy these novels.
And lots of the ladies are widows.taken from www.angelathirkell.org/atbrief.htm:August Folly (1936)In the Palmer and the Tebbens families, we meet two of the less congenial figures among the Barsetshire gentry; young Richard Tebbens and Louise Palmer.
However, since Thirkell's people are never all of a piece, bossy Mrs. Palmer's nasty treatment of Margaret Tebbens is partially redeemed by her handsome apology and Richard's heroic rescue of young Jessica Dean from a bemused bull leaves him unreformed in his selfishness.
This was my first Angela Thirkell novel and I really enjoyed it and look forward to digging out more of her books at my local used book store.
As I am currently (and slowly!) working my way through Anthony Trollope's Barsetshire novels, I love the idea that Thirkell is picking up the same mythical Barsetshire places, families and even the gentle humor and social satire of Trollope.
I really enjoyed her light style and fond recreation of life between the wars in the English countryside, complete with summer theatricals, first loves, and other minor village intrigues.
In this book we meet the Dean family.
It is a large family and many of them will appear in later novels.
Here, Mrs. Dean is lovely middle-aged woman (her children are young adults, so she is certainly over 45).
A young man worships her from afar.
I think this must have been one of Mrs. Thirkell's experiences or wishes.
The Older woman/younger man occurs often in the novels.
Susan Dean is a young woman who will be a secretary, manager, generally efficient character in a number of novels of the 1940's.
At some point she marries into the Belton family.
