https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47989.Night_Watch
My favourite Pratchett novel, but I'm not really sure why.I think that Sam Vimes' being in it definitely helps: I think my favourite "series" in the Discworld novels are the City Watch series (along with the witches of Lancre and Death).
but this book was the first to make me cry.I think this is the first Discworld novel in which I really realized that Pratchett is who I want to be as a writer.
but Sam Vimes, in Night Watch, is about as truly human as Pratchett gets.

Thud!In one timeline, that’s the name of another Pratchett Discworld novel (the 34th, apparently).Thud!In another, that’s the sound of me marching to my own drum.In yet another, that’s the sound the vegetables thrown by my book-loving friends make when they hit my hard head.Because, honestly, this was in between the “okay” and ‘liked it” kind of read for me.
Currently a Baron, with time occupied more by meetings than by feeling the city stones beneath his feet, Sam Vines is thrown back into history as he attempts to catch a serial killer.
They just happen to parody the real world more than parodying the fantasy genre.In the Nightwatch series of books, this being the first one, you are introduced to a series of ragtag characters who are disrespected and disillusioned.
This Heroic character proves to be the inspiration and catalyst necessary for the members of the Nightwatch to stand up and finally do what they wanted to do somewhere deep in their hearts (even if, in some characters' cases, this need was buried very deeply).
This was a reread but it has been so long that I did not remember much of it at all, so it was just like reading it for the first time.Two of my favourite Discworld characters are Vimes and Vetinari and since they both featured in this book it had to be a success in my mind!
I loved the way Pratchett created an alternative past and we got to see Vimes as a young man as well as the well worn cynic that we know so well.
Terry Pratchett will always be one of my go to authors when I want to read a book I know I will enjoy.
Sam Vimes, while chasing a murderous bad guy, is flung back in time to when he had first joined the Watch, amidst tensions that threatened to tear his city apart.Buried amidst each Terry Pratchett Discworld are golden nuggets of cultural references – readers can search and find them and have fun like kids on Easter Sunday finding eggs.
I really enjoyed listening to this audio book. I thought the narrator was excellent with the different character's voices. It was all very entertaining. I adored the humour and the wit present throughout the book. It was the first book from Terry Pratchett I have read - I am not sure why I waited so long to read any of his output - but it will certainly not be the last. A fanstatic read.
Following a magical accident, City Watch Commander Samuel Vimes finds himself in the Ankh Morpork of his youth.
The bad news is, that said criminal has more than enough charisma to join and thrive in the Day Watch of the time: a cruel organization way above the law.To keep up with the man, Sam Vimes will infiltrate the Night Watch, adopting the identity of his childhood hero, John Keel.
Score: 4/5 starsFour well-deserved stars for a poignant, funny, bitter-sweet and nostalgic as heck origin story on Sam Vimes, Havelock Vetinari, as well as several important members of the (future) City/Night Watch....
It was darker, delving into the history of Ankh-Morpork (Discworld's largest city) and allowing us glimpses into the past of several repeat characters, primarily Sam Vimes, Commander of the Night Watch, but also Lord Vetinari, Patrician of Ankh-Morpork, and several others.
This book has such merit I would recommend anyone to read it but you can't fully appreciate its complexities or the heartbreak and challenges of the characters without having read the other books that pertain particularly to the Night Watch.
I was very much looking forward to reading this book and was never let down.
In fact, it makes me rethink all of the other books that I've given five stars, perhaps they don't deserve it...Here's the problem: This book isn't going to have the right impact unless you've read, at the very least, three of the previous Ankh-Morpork Night Watch books.
Vimes chased a totally Bursar criminal with no morals onto the roof of the Unseen University Library, and through a freak electrical storm, winds up back in the days when he himself was a rookie in the AM Night Watch.
I find it to be incredibly moving and emotional, and it makes me cry every time.
Somehow Terry Pratchett seems to go down particularly well when I'm not feeling at my best. I've read several that I've enjoyed but not been particularly grabbed by. In comparison, the times that I've read one of his books while sick or exhausted, I have liked them a whole lot more.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
The story revolves around Sam Vimes, and it's a very good example of the author's shift from slapstick comedy to a subtler form of humor and to targetting in his imaginary world real problems from the world we live in.Using the plot device of time travel, the author throws the Commander of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch back to a revolutionary episode of the city history and to his own apprenticeship in the Watch.
7.5/10This is rated as one of the best Discworld novels out there, a number of friends put this at the top of a highly rated pile so coming into this on those high hopes didn't take much for it to fall short for me.Don't get me wrong, I really enjoyed this.
A Discworld novel should take about 4-5 days for me to read, this took 11 which sums it up really.So in summary, don't drink and read.
I'll probably come back to this in the future and give it the time and attention it truly deserves.If you like this try: "The Hogfather" by Terry Pratchett
I'm a sucker for a good story with time travel or reincarnation...
There's just something about them :)This one was on the good side...
Other than that little blip, it kept my attention quite nicely and made me smile when I thought about Sam revisiting his memories and having doubts as to whether it was him or Keel.
I remember saying to him in my head "Don't think too hard on time travel, you'll only get a migraine" The time travel parts were handled nicely, it made sense...
The one end bit with Sam when he came back.
(Relectura Mundodisco #29)Cuando Sam Vimes es tu personaje favorito y la serie de la guardia de la ciudad la que más disfrutas, esta novela te parece la definitiva, el techo de Terry Pratchett, todo el Mundodisco que has leído antes te ha llevado hasta aquí y no te quieres ir.
His master is the law, and this book wholeheartedly believes that the law is not something we are given by higher authority, it’s something we’ve got just because we are.And that’s what I love about the Watch novels, I think.
Vimes believes in things like justice and truth with a purity and strength which should be laughable, and which is usually idiotically obnoxious in a hero.
That last one, in particular, really gets on the nerves of this pragmatist with an idealist’s heart).So these books make me happy because they believe in things with towering strength, and the things they believe in are actually worth it.Also, I love Sam Vimes with every fiber of my being.
However, we see more of the sarcastic and clever aspects of Vimes which I do enjoy and far less of the bitter, woe-is-me, self-destructive aspects which drive me crazy.This is a time travel story.
Vimes accidentally gets thrown back in time, to a point shortly after he had first joined the Watch.
History of course gets changed, and now he has to make sure events happen that will keep his future in-tact.It wasn’t a completely riveting story, but it had its fun parts.
Some of those fun parts came from seeing various other Discworld characters at an earlier stage in their lives and learning what they were like before the series began.
Miałam tylko podczytać z okazji 25 maja, przeczytałam jednak całość po raz kolejny. To ciekawe, na ile sposobów można czytać tę powieść: tym razem towarzyszyło mi takie uczucie, że cała ta wyprawa Vimesa w przeszłość służyła temu, żeby mógł tak naprawdę ocalić Sybil. Owszem, postać doktora Lawna w pewnym momencie nieco schodzi z pierwszego planu, kiedy zaczyna się rewolucja, ale gdyby nie ta podróż w czasie, kto wie, co stałoby się z Sybil. Także to jest moje główne odczytanie przy tej lekturze. A poza tym jak miło było na chwilę wrócić do Ankh-Morpork!
I was right. It is my favorite Discworld novel so far. It is dark, gritty, hilarious, fun to read. And somehow, very real. It made me feel I was running chasing bad guys and tiptoeing along side Vimes. I would love a day hanging out with him, my fave character so far. And I think Vetinari was pretty awesome as well. Argh, can't wait to read the other Watch novels!
One of the darkest and most complex of the City Watch stories, while pursuing a truly depraved criminal named Carcer, Commander Sir Samuel Vimes is thrown back through time on the eve of the birth of his son to help...
The high drama of the story comes from the subtle portrayal, not only of good and evil, but the extremely gray area of civil war, class warfare, the human spirit, and the will to survive.
Night Watch isn't the best place to start Pratchett, not because it would leave a bad impression, but because you just won't get as much out of it as a seasoned fan.
That's because it's a novel that doesn't just follow on from the events of previous books, but that culminates, explains, and perhaps even justifies them.
How much tyranny is permissable in order to protect freedom?Night Watch feels like one of the stories that Pratchett was born to tell - and it's also one of his masterpieces.My full review of it is over on my blog.
Jeśli się głębiej zastanowić, w każdej rewolucji chodzi tak naprawdę o jajko na twardo. Dobre. Ciągle dobre. Bo w sumie jest tu wszystko co lubię: podróż w czasie, alternatywna rzeczywistość, spotkanie przeszłego ja, pokusa, by zmienić wydarzenia, a poza tym Ankh Morpork z czasów przed Vetinarim, młody Vetinari, stara straż przed swoim upadkiem i wzlotem, szwaczki i prawdziwa szwaczka, barykady, kwanty i miasto w najlepszym wydaniu. To chyba najlepsza książka Pratchetta, przynajmniej dla mnie. Albo Sam Vimes jest po prostu doskonałym narratorem. Tak czy siak - doskonale obnaża ludzką naturę.A teraz rzucam się na serię o straży od początku.
This book affirms Vimes' place as the traditional family man, a far cry from where Vimes was when the reader is first introduced to him in Guards!
Along with Granny Weatherwax and Ridcully, Vimes represents in many way the old guard of the Disc.In this book, Vimes becomes use to his skin, to being called "his grace".
Here, we see a Vimes at peace with himself, far more than he was in The Fifth Elephant.Pratchett does not seem bored with his characters nor he is afraid to show the readers a pair of older lovers.
Otras reseñas de Mundodisco en mi blog.  Gracias Terry por otra divertidísima historia. Siempre que termino uno de los libros de Mundodisco me siento feliz e impresionado por la imaginación que tenía Pratchett, y «Ronda de Noche» no fue la excepción: sin lugar a dudas es uno de los mejores libros de los Guardias y eso ya es decir mucho. No puedo ponerle menos de 5 estrellas a los libros de Mundodisco, sinceramente me encantan y los recomiendo a todo el mundo.Lamentablemente solo me quedan dos
Otras reseñas de Mundodisco en mi blog.
Gracias Terry por otra divertidísima historia.
Siempre que termino uno de los libros de Mundodisco me siento feliz e impresionado por la imaginación que tenía Pratchett, y «Ronda de Noche» no fue la excepción: sin lugar a dudas es uno de los mejores libros de los Guardias y eso ya es decir mucho.
No puedo ponerle menos de 5 estrellas a los libros de Mundodisco, sinceramente me encantan y los recomiendo a todo el mundo.Lamentablemente solo me quedan dos libros protagonizados por Vimes y el resto de la Guardia de Ankh-Morpork T_T (Reseña pendiente).
I have read and enjoyed most of Pratchetts books set in the Disc World.For recent reads, whilst I have liked the books for the language and comedy, I have felt that the plots were getting formulaic.This book has reaffirmed my faith in Mr Pratchett. It is a wonderful read, full of pithy comments and hugely funny.
The thing about Prachett's discworld books is, that once you've read five or six of them you've read them all.Aside from that they are the literary equivalent of a good cup of tea and a biscuit.
I believe the blurb on my first copy read something like: “This morning Sam Vimes was reminiscing about the good old days in the Watch.
This afternoon he’s living in them.” In a nutshell, His Grace, the Duke of Ankh, Watch Commander Sir Samuel Vimes, accidental time-traveler, is hunting a serial-killer named Carcer, who has also been thrown back thirty years in time.
Yep, His Grace must become his own tutor--the staunch Sergeant who teaches young Sam all that’s vital about becoming a good copper rather than a crooked one.Night Watch is also about revolutions (“Don’t put your trust in [them].
One of the very best!Doing the right thing in a time, where nothing seems to be right.
This book may well be the most profound and most moving one of the Discworld series.
It certainly moves me every time I read it - and I stopped counting how often this was.This time I read it aloud to my two boys (8 and 10), and I hope, that some of the deeper meaning reached through to them.
We certainly talked a lot about it.Terry Pratchett is a master, and I have yet to find another author, who can play all the strings in me that he does.
I think this is my favourite Watch book to date which is a bit bizarre because most of the Watch as we know it wasn't in it. I'm always a bit tense about predestination time paradoxes but Terry Pratchett is a safe pair of hands. Vimes has come a long way since Guards Guards. this was just a pleasure to read.
Series: Here are the Discworld books about the City Watch and its commander Sam Vimes, in order of publication:Guards!
(1989) Men at Arms (1993)Feet of Clay (1996)Jingo (1997) The Fifth Elephant (1999) Night Watch (2002) Thud (2005) Snuff (2011) (Series links at https://www.goodreads.com/series/1062...)Also, there are some spin-off books featuring con-man turned hero, Moist Von Lipvig, and a few characters from the City Watch.
The Truth is not about Moist Von Lipvig, but it has some City Watch characters, including Lord Vetinari, even though it is not officially part of the City Watch series (whatever that means).
