https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/564979.The_Sun_King_
Men are required to be elegant, witty, memorable, and handsome if at all possible, or dressed in a way that falls in to some sort of amusing stereotype if not (the crusty sailor, the coarse soldier, the court jester).
Stella Tillyard (whose own work as a historian I adore), in her introduction to the book, points out that the biography is truly the story of Louis’ three principal mistresses, whose reigns separate out the stages of his life.
I think that this is true insofar as we spend much more time following these women and the atmosphere of the court that they create (Queens seem to never count in these biographies) than Louis himself.
This book is not so much gossipy as bitchy - as we say in the vernacular, if you are a fan of Evelyn Waugh you might enjoy this, but personally I found it hard work.To clarify matters, Mitford was an aristocrat writing in 1966, she is accepting of homosexuality, adultery and paedophilia, and doesn't see such habits as disruptive to a successful marriage, a state which can, one judges, be defined as the pooling of resources the better to be socially amusing.
The splendid fortunes - as the fierce winds - causing major wrecks.Plutarch
This is a fun book, a rather chaotic collection of anecdotes and gossip about Louis XIV and his women, centered around their lives at Versailles.
Enjoying robust health himself, he was intolerant of human frailty in his friends and family: "When he travelled from one his houses to another he only took women with him in his coach...
If by any chance they were taken ill, fainted, or felt sick, they could expect no sympathy; on the contrary, disfavour set in."I enjoyed the author's disgust with 17th century medical professionals, who killed nearly everyone they laid their hands on, particularly children, with bleeding and purging.
Fluffy & ‘pretty’ history. Meh.

1. The labor and delivery of Louis XIV's grandson, Le Petit Dauphin (who died before his grandfather, leaving his son, the Sun King's great-grandson, to become Louis XV King of France--more on that below).
The King came and went, feeding Maria by his own hand food and wine at one point.
The King said that he would even be glad to see the baby be born a girl if Maria could live and the suffering end.
All night long the labor continued, no sleep came for Maria.
Maria, the Dauphine of France, had served her purpose and lay still suffering in her bed, seemingly forgotten by the Sun King and her husband.
Having recently read 'Sisters', a biography of the Mitford sisters, I was attracted to this book about the court of Louis XIV by Nancy, the novelist and biographer.Although the title, 'The Sun King', suggests a study of Louis, the book is actually more of a assembly of biographies of those who surrounded him at Versailles. Very little attention is paid to the political and military aspects of his reign. The focus is on the social life of the court.
yeah, this was a brisk, pleasant history of the life of Louis the XIV. I’ve been getting rid of most of the books on my shelves and I probably have about 5-6 which cover this topic, so it was hard to get quite that excited about it but it was breezy and fun and also a lot lighter than most of the other books I have regarding the Sun King and so Keep.
The Sun King is a biography of both the French monarch and his home, Versailles.
From the building of the palace to Louis XIV's many relationships, Mitford takes her informed but light-hearted attitude towards the different aspects of the court of the Sun King.
Instead of a comprehensive biography, Mitford focuses on the goings on and relationships within Versailles.
Instead of appearing self serious or respectful merely because of the weighty historical personages, Mitford takes elements that humanize the historical figures as well as characterize their times.
I do prefer Mitford's historical works (like Voltaire in Love) over her novels (The Pursuit of Love), and The Sun King is another excellent addition.
Actually, another 3 1/2 star review!This biography deals mostly with court intrigues, romances, and (less so) politics than the wider European events of Louis XIV's reign, such as the War of the Spanish Succession. That said, it covers those court events in fascinating and commendable detail.The louche, almost languid, writing style, familiar to anyone who has read Nancy Mitford's novels (I have) helps too. A good read.
Most fun I've had reading history since Suetonius's "The Twelve Caesars." Mitford is a hell of a writer, and a wonderful tour guide through the rein of Louis XIV and the halls of the palace at Versailles.
(There are some bits about hunting that seem to strike a personal chord.)I think The Sun King is about three things, really: Louis XIV (Mitford likes him a lot); Versailles (Mitford likes it a lot); 17th century medicine (Mitford HATES it).
Really, The Sun King is enough to scare you off the idea of time travel, because what if you get a cold and well-meaning people want to take care of you?
Since it's as much a story about Versailles and about material culture (I think that is the term) as about a person, the lack of visual record is sort of sad.Mitford also has rather frequent flashes of perspective about the people she talks about.
My biggest issue is the very non-linear structure of this book.
Mitford is all over the place with the time line in chapters.
It's nearly impossible to keep up with what events are taking place when with such a scattershot approach.
Mitford has a sharp wit that comes through in her observations of history and beliefs for the period.
I still found the non-linear composition of events off-putting, but that was minor when set against Mitford's tone, interesting anecdotes and the beautiful pictures of the stunning art of the day included in the book.
Nancy Mitford's biography of Louis XIV reveals her, perhaps unsurprisingly, to be anti-Semitic, racist, homophobic, snobbish and superficial.
In many ways this makes her an ideal chronicler of the Sun King's court, which largely embodied the same values (with the exception of the homophobia - nobody seemed too concerned about the exploits of "Monsieur", the King's brother).Mitford, and the court at Versailles, place a great premium on wit, frivolity and personal attractiveness.
The illustrations are excellent too...If you are an aficionado of the period this is worth a read, even if you have to hold your nose at times; if your interest is more casual there are much better places to start.

The chapter about Doctors and medicine and the last chapter concerning the death of the King were the only redeeming qualities of this book. Every other chapter was what I like to call a lot of blah, blah, blah.
This book is a little schizo - interesting history a bit blandly written for Nancy Mitford. And while the copious illustrations are beautiful and informative, they make the book feel too much like a coffee table book...meaning I will never complete the text.
I enjoyed reading this I felt it was brilliantly written and pieced together . It can become tedious reading this type of history but I felt the author kept the reader engaged with the right amount of glamour :)
Dense, old fashioned, and the author is heavily biased in favor of Versailles, but there is still some great descriptions of the fascinating court of the Sun King.
Read and enjoyed many, many years ago.
In the meantime, coincidentally, my son gave me the Antonia Fraser book on Louis XIV, which I ended up reading first.
When I got back to Mitford's Sun King, it was with great delight that I realized that Antonia had blazed the trail for me with her excellent book, leaving Nancy to follow up with the apres ski, like a big luxurious dollop of whipped cream.
While Fraser was my trail blazer on Louis XIV, I expect Mitford blazed the trail for historical biographers with her original vibrant style, writing the Sun King in 1966 when many history books came with their own cobwebs.
Personally speaking, this isn't the type of history that I enjoy reading about.
Because it revolves around the court and the court alone, names and titles mattered a lot in this book.
I only wish there had been a list of names and their relative positions within Versailles at the beginning because I know for sure that I definitely mixed a lot of them up.
If you can keep track of names and are the type to enjoy such confined political history, then you'd like this book a lot better than I would.
I'm sure many of the facts and descriptions are now dated, but it was still an enjoyable read in the end.
But the many people who wrote about him at first hand...do not seem to have noticed an alien or exotic look...The salient feature was his nose; it was a good shape, though rather pinched above the nostrils; it only became Jewish when he was old."OMG Nancy Mitford!
As Louis XIV needed heirs, it was essential that the Dauphine should not repel her husband; he particularly enjoined upon Croissy to tell the truth about the girl and her looks.
This was interesting in parts. If, like me, you're a bit of a history buff and find seventeenth century history intriguing then you'll probably enjoy this to an extent. I usually prefer to read about the earlier years of Louis XIV's reign and Mitford seems to skip the majority of those years and focus on his obsession with the building of Versailles. It can get a bit dull in places with all the politics and talk of warfare, but otherwise I found this to be an insightful read.
Overall a nice read. However, in contrast to some other historical nonfiction books, the book did not have a family tree or "cast of characters" to refer to in order to keep all the Dukes, Duchesses, Princes, etc. straight in one's mind while reading. Towards the end of the book, this made reading a bit overwhelming due to all the offspring (legitimate & non-legitimate children, grandchildren, nieces and nephews) of Louis XIV.
I read this after watching the BBC series Versailles, and I think this provided a good basis for accessing this book - in fact I quite struggled after about half way through, as the TV series stopped during Louis' young adulthood. In other words, this book definitely presumes background knowledge of the life and times of Louis XIV, so I wouldn't recommend it as a starting place.
Although this book is littered with the author's own bias when it comes to characters, it is perhaps one of the most readable historical biographies I've ever read. It is fantastic. A lovely insight with a very readable, easy tone which just draws you in to the life of Louis XIV and his court
A kindly, gentlemanly, curmudgeonly, opinionated, womanizing old trout. Also, a real manly man. I like the chatty gossipy tone.
Miss Mitford is not the most objective historian but her account of the life of Louis XIV of France is a grand tale of a grand life, entertaining and well worth reading.
