https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124245.The_Black_Pearl

i might give to much info about this book wasreally boring for me , a part of mexico called La Paz where a young boy name Ramon lives.His father works under the water, his not a submarine, but he finds pearls under the sea.beautiful pearls which he sells to the people.
Ramon's dad could tell if a pearl was good enough to be sell by raising it up to the sun and weighting it.
He started to learned how to determine if a pearls was either fragile or was in good conditions to be sell, he learned how to open the selfs ,he was becoming an expert.
This was probably a better book than I remember, but all I know is that when I got in trouble in 6th grade, my mom grounded me from reading "It" by Stephen King, and made me read this instead... So naturally, I'm bitter...
i had to re-write a book report for this book in the 8th grade cuz the teacher new i didn't really read it after i first handed in the report. ha. turned out it wasn't that bad
Ramon does not believe that such a creature even exists when he finds the pearl, but when crazy things begin to happen, Ramon begins to believe that maybe the manta diablo does exist after all...This was a Newberry Honor book, but I personally do not see why it was awarded as such.
The writing was good and the story was kind of interesting, but beyond that, there was no draw to this book for me.
Maybe it would be a great story for much younger readers than I, but I did not love this book.
The Black Pearl is a well-written coming of age story, even a bit of a page turner.
The book grabbed my attention quickly and then held it by steadily tightening the stakes.
Yet somehow I finished the book with a shrug.
As with O'Dell's Sing Down the Moon, there's no pathos to the prose.
You're incredibly close to the protagonist, but you're never really in his head.
I did my best to fill in the blanks, especially after tragedy struck (as it always does in his books).
Just think of this as an emotional DIY project while enjoying the story itself, which I found quite compelling.
The book is short, yes, but it's the perfect length for this. If it had been longer, this book would have been boring and may feel like forced. If it had been shorter, it would seem incomplete. This is my second Scott O'Dell and you could see the similarities of the settings of this book and Island of the Blue Dolphins  and probably his other novels, which I'd read if I got the chance. It's a two and a half hour read and it's cute. The thing I would change about it is the font or the book format itself.
I read this story shortly after reading "The Pearl" by John Steinbeck, and they're clearly based off of the same legend.
Ramón makes his own dive, finds the great pearl, and brings it home to his father.
Ramón steals the pearl intending to throw it back since he now believes that the Manta Diablo wants it back; however, he is kidnaped by his rival who wants to sell it and get rich.
Long story short, the rival and the Manta die, and Ramón takes the pearl back to the Madonna and somehow believes he is now a man.
The black pearl is about a boy who only wants to discover the great famous pearl in the big blue seas of Baja California. What he doesn't know is that it might be dangerous. He wishes to follow his father's footsteps and become someone who finds these pearls and deal the with others. What i think about this book so far is that it follows a boy who only wants an adventure based on curiosity. I like how he believe's that he wants to prove others wrong among the big and bad Manta Diablo but it comes with its consequences.
I just can't really assign books that have few to zero women and girls in them, it's a false look at a society that doesn't exist for boys, and relegates girls to a footnote or supporting role. I found this to be Hemingwayesque in its omission of women, except for, literally, just the Madonna figure throughout. Gahhh.
Newbery Challenge 128/512. Just okay. I am learning that all of Scott O’Dell’s books aren’t going to live up to Island of the Blue Dolphins. This reminded me of The Old Man and the Sea, but lacked the depth and metaphor.
Such a sobering and austere book is a challenge to love. That being said, it is well written and one can draw many points out for examination and conversation.It would be a good choice for a Grade 8 or 9 literature study.
Ramon decides he needs to prove himself to the Sevillano, and his father, that he is capable of finding a better pearl than the Sevillano has ever found.
He searches out an old Indian pearl diver by the name of Soto Luzon to teach him better diving techniques.
Lesson learned: if an old wise Indian warns you to not dive into a deep dark cave and steal a giant pearl from a manta ray the size of a small country and who's named the freaking DEVIL MANTA, don't do it!This was a solid, if unspectacular, book.
It is a story of the sea, treasure, love, faith, work, family ties, and above all greed.Ramon Salazar, is 16, the son of Blas Salazar, a pearl diver and trader.
There are others who want the pearl for reasons good and bad.
There are conflicts with greedy antagonists and with nature itself.And the story ends with an unusual, powerful turn of events that reveal Ramon's character growth and inherent goodness.
I found the book to be an interesting character study as it explores the boy's relationship with his family and his faith.
They would voyage out to sea and dive for pearls, in hopes of one day finding the heavenly pearl of all others, but many were fearful of bringing forth the monster Manta Diablo, for the stories they have heard were those of mishappenings, curses and death.
Ramon dived into the mouth of the Manta Diablos cave and found a giant black pearl.
After many hours of bartering with his competition on selling the pearl, Ramon's father decided to offer the Pearl of Heaven to the great Madonna in hopes that she would bless him and his crew from all bad things at sea.
Synopsis: This YA book is a coming-of-age tale of Ramon Salazar, the sixteen-year old son of a pearl dealer in Baja, California-Mexico.Ramon discovers the 'Pearl of Heaven' - a huge, magnificent, black pearl - and the town is in awe and celebration.
It's a tiny book - just 96 pages - and it successfully sweeps you into its intriguing world.
When forced to read this book in 5th grade class with Ms. Seagull (I really have no recollection of how to really spell her name...), I HATED it.
I've since read it a third time, and did actually understand why it's considered an honorable book; however, the original damage of forcing a child to read something they truly hate (when they so love reading EVERYTHING else) was already done and I just can't get over it enough to give it the higher rating of more stars that the actual writing deserves.
I thought the "Black Pearl"was pretty good in some parts,but sad in others.Like it was sad when the "fleet"died in a storm.But also cool when Ròmon found the Pearl of Heaven and when he learned how to go pearling.The characters in this story are Ròmon,his father Mr.Salzar,his mother Mrs.Salzar,Father Galldor and the Sellviano.In the beginning of this story,Ròmons mother is gone and he is just with his dad when he asks "when can I go pearling"?And his father says "when you are sixteen,Son".And that is just the beginning!

I thought the book was OK but is was not super good, to me at least.  In the beginning of the book i thought that Ramon was going to kill the manta diablo but guess not. I didn't think that Ramon's father was going to die. When he did die I thought he was going to come back, then his father would tell everyone that the sevillano is bad. But that never happened so it was  not as exiting as i thought it would be. That is why I gave it three stars
I enjoyed the characters, the twists and the writing. That said, this is the third Scott o'Dell book that I've read. I feel like his books lack something for all the good that's in them. It's as if they lack heart. I don't finish the book inspired and thinking about it for a long time afterward.
It was kinda boring at first.The only reason I kept reading was because I was being paid to but I'm glad I kept reading!
There was no spark for me reading this. The only that that gripped me was the scene where they saw the manta ray. That was slightly interesting.
Then the idea that in the end, Ramon brought the pearl back to the church in his village and placed it in the hand of the Madonna made me wonder about the relationship between regions native folklore and religion.
When his father dies at sea, Ramon takes the pearl from the Madonna and goes to the Manta's cave to return it, believing that the Madonna didn't show favor on his father by protecting him and also to keep the Manta from continuing to bring him misery in its pursuit of the pearl.
Ramon wants to prove to his father and family he can be a pearl diver in his own right, an occupation fraught with dangers.The locals fear and speak of the Manta Diablo, the monstrous manta ray that is legend in the area.
When Ramon meets a fisherman who claims the Manta Diablo guards the pearl within one of the many caves off the lagoons, the plot really begins to accelerate.It's clear that Scott O'Dell used John Steinbeck's "The Pearl" as a source of inspiration for his story.
Black Pearl is a book about a boy named Ramon Salazar who finds the pearl of heaven a.k.a the black 
The boy has finally turned 16 and his father has always promised that when he turned that age he would teach him to dive as well.
One day when his father is gone, the boy sails out to an island that is known for its black pearls and asks the man who lives there to teach him to dive.
The boy doesn't really buy into the ancient beliefs held by the old diver, and when he finally dives, he finds an immense black pearl that is more beautiful than anything he has ever seen.
You should read The Black Pearl by Scott O’dell because it is full drama and dangerous acts, but it all works out in the end.
Their best pearler is Sevillano (a pearler is a person who collects pearl from the ocean).
After trying to sell it to other pearlers, Ramon and his father decided to gave the pearl to the church.
After Ramon realized that the pearl only brought pain, he tried to put the pearl back, but greedy Sevillano stopped him.
Sevillano tried to sell it but the act was in vain.
The battle between selflessness and selfishness unfolds, as Sevillano and Ramon fight over the pearl.
Ramon is the scrawny 16-year old son of the richest pearl dealer in their small Mexican town.
He wants to become a pearl diver so he can claim his manhood by finding the Pearl of Heaven, but his father delegates Ramon to bookkeeping.
He finds what he is looking for--a perfect black pearl bigger than anyone has ever seen, but it brings a curse down on Ramon and his family.
That is because the book I'm writing also has to do with a young person discovering a pearl, and I wanted to be sure that the similarities ended there.
THIS BOOK CONTAINS SPOILERS This book is horrible towards the middle and end.
This book is horrible especially towards the end.
This book gets a thumb down.
I think this book is trash because it makes no sense.
You capture a dangerous animal and don't even kill it, that make no sense.
Does he really think that a monstrous sea creature will listen to a human even though this creature can easily kill it?
He just let the human capture him.
If you want to read it read it but it's horrible.
This definitely gets a 2 star.
