https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15594.A_Midwife_s_Tale
In fact I was surprised as I read how much of it I could remember reading even that many years ago, so it must have made a deep impression.
I'm just in awe if LTU, the depth and breadth of information that she gleans from Martha Ballard's spare diary entries is mind boggling, for instance, she'll throw out a comparison of the number of people, male and female that MB mentions visiting in her community, then compares it to two other contemporary men's journals, the sheer amount of data she collected, the spread sheets she must have made, and to keep it all straight, to find meaning in it, to organize it into such a readable fascinating picture of a life.
She married Ephraim Ballard in 1754 and gave birth to nine children, lost three of them to diphtheria and eventually died in Maine, in 1812 at the age of 77.
Between 1785 and 1812, Martha Ballard kept a diary.
Without it her life would’ve been just a succession of born and died dates in some town registry.
She kept an exhaustive record of her travels from house to house, helping not just the pregnant women but the sick and afflicted, her daily accounts of the weather, and her business dealings.
So many of their children died and yet these women persevered.
She kept careful track of her work as a midwife, her gardening and household chores, and the comings and goings of friends, family, and neighbors; basically, the daily happenings in her life.
History buffs will certainly enjoy this glimpse into day-to-day life in Martha’s time and place.On another level, however, this book is a detective story.
The format of the book – each chapter is an excerpt from the diary, followed by Ulrich’s commentary – allows us a glimpse into the brilliant detective work that Ulrich undertook to craft this book.
It may actually be in its favour to be so accessible by those that don't live in the same world as Thatcher in terms of gaining understanding of it and the implications Thatcher's work holds for both gender and medical history.
While some parts are questionable in terms of putting thoughts on the person of Mrs. Martha Ballard, A Midwife's Tale helps stitch together gender history and medical history in her social history of late 18th and early 19th century New England.
As such tension between gender role and necessity, especially in light of changing medical opinion concerning the involvement of women are exemplified in Martha Ballard's life.
The topic of the book is Martha Ballard and how she represented women in late 18th century America.
It focuses on the role of midwives, women in the home, in a market economy, sexual relations of the time period, family hierarchy and structure, a women’s place in society as a whole.
The central argument is that women in late 18th century America, while often over looked, played a major role in all aspects of society.
I am so thankful to live in the age of modern medicine! Martha Ballard was a caring, talented midwife who helped to deliver hundreds of babies. She also nursed neighbors through their illnesses and prepared the dead for burial. She had a strong faith in a sovereign God which gave her much comfort in the many trials she encountered.Ulrich weaves a tapestry of the social, political, economic, familial, religious, & medical ways of Martha's day along with her journal of the every day work she faithfully performed.I was fascinated.2018 - A biography
Women's journals from this time period are not at all common to have been preserved to modern day, but her family descendants preserved her writings all these years, and thank goodness they did.
(If you ever think your life is boring and you have nothing to write in your journal, this book will show you that even a record of the mundane details will probably be of interest to people hundreds of years later!)Life was tough for women then, but in different ways.
For example, the author will mention something several times without explaining it, and only explain it much later in the book.
Laurel Ulrich Thatcher (who is LDS, incidentally) sifted through thousands of journal entries & period documents to reconstruct the life of Martha Ballard--a woman history forgot.
You get to know, intimately, what life was like for an average American woman in the late 18th/early 19th C.
I was curious what the community of women at that time was like, and if it was really all I'd imagined it to be.
Their relationships were complex and rewarding (just like today).I highly recommend this book.
You will fall in love with Martha, this nondescript woman who did nothing "remarkable" but live her life, one day at a time!
It was the great effort of Laurel Thatcher Ulrich in her Pulitzer Prize winning book, A Midwife’s Tale: The Life of Martha Ballard, Based on Her Diary, 1785-1812, which uncovered the knowledge that illuminated the life and significance of women and midwives during the late seventeen hundreds and early eighteen hundreds.
The writings in her diary simply elaborated some of the hard work that many women of the time did in order to help their families survive.Ultimately, A Midwife’s Tale: The Life of Martha Ballard, Based on Her Diary, 1785-1812, written by Laurel Thatcher Ulrich, was an extremely interesting book containing much insight into how women carried on during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.
This book was amazing.
It is set in the largely uncharted territory of Maine after the Revolutionary War. Few regular folks were literate at that time, which is why Martha Ballard, a largely self-educated midwife, gave us such a gift in keeping a diary.
It's not a diary in the ordinary sense, but rather her accounts of her business as a midwife, sometimes punctuated with other short references to events in her life.
She has researched the time and place exhaustively, and uses those external sources to help us understand what Martha's life is like.
Historian's historian. Took a midwife's journal with entries that were each maybe two or three sentences long and along with other research, built out the story of a woman, a town and a career. Just incredible.
I choose to read A Midwife's Tale: the Life of Martha Ballard,Based on Her Diary,1785-1812 for the simple fact that it was a Pulitzer Prize-winning book so I could add it to my Sugar Pop Reading Challenge.
Those spots where I might have consider watching golf on television, I press on because I wanted to add a Pulitzer Prize book and frankly if ANYONE asked me what I was reading, this book would make me sound a little bit intellectual.
CAN YOU IMAGINE THAT CONVERSATION?)While this book is at some points very dull ( watching golf may be more exciting) there was bits of exciting and interest.
This pathbreaking, Pulitzer-prize-winning book is a study of the life, labor, and social connections of a rural midwife, Martha Ballard, based on her manuscript diary in the Maine State Library.
She found that women like Ballard enjoyed a fair amount of autonomy, even power, in early American society: they sold homespun, garden crops, and dairy goods to neighbors; commanded the labor of their daughters and of boarding teenagers from neighboring households; and, in the case of midwives, presided over the rituals of birth and life.
Ulrich's book reminds us that in history, "the petty struggles and small graces of ordinary life" (p.
This started out really slowly.
The introduction just about killed me with the dry and convoluted information.
Then I started on the rest of it.
I really liked the format; being able to read some of the diary but then being told the back story from lots of other sources.
The diary itself was hard to read but got easier as things went on.
I thought Martha's life was very interesting.
As her life got harder as she aged, it was harder to read.
Fortunately things got better.
The epilogue had the same problems as the introduction.
Convoluted and boring.
This book was not what I expected.
It actually reads more like a text book as the author disects the diary and uses other historic documents to describe life as a midwife in the time period.
It was very interesting but not necessarily entertaining.Very few of my preconceived notions of what it was like to live in the time period as a woman were true.
Martha was a very independent person, but that may partly have been because she was a midwife and was expected to move about the community as needed.
I began reading this book because Martha Ballard, the midwife, was a knitter who recorded her progress in winding wool and knitting socks and mittens while she attended births (lots and lots of them).
Ulrich won a Pulitzer for this book, an astonishing interpretation of the diary of a midwife in Maine during the late 1700s/early 1800s.
It is amazing that Martha Ballard kept this diary and equally amazing that her family preserved and donated her diary to the Maine State Library.
Ulrich selected quotations from the diary and then interpreted the diary in historical context.
And I did find the knitting references.

I was so impressed with Martha and enthralled to see the economy, medical care, home and community life from the eyes of a woman.
It impresses me with the magnitude of information we are missing because women did not publish letters and historical texts throughout history to the degree men did.
Reading the details here was facinating - and I was amazed (although thinking about it I should not be) that Martha struggled with her work and the demands of home.
Chuck full of interesting and thoroughly researched information....but it was hard to get through. I listened to the audio version, and it was like listening to hours and hours of a police blotter (as my husband put it). I think I would have enjoyed this more of I'd taken more time to get through it, and I think the audio was a bad idea too (unless it had been narrated by Ulrich herself, because she's much more interesting to listen to). I am, however, looking forward to discussing it at my book club :)
A beautiful book in so many ways - the story, the writing, the way I stepped back in time when I read it, but perhaps most of all, the love with which it was written.
Meticulously researched, this book brought to life midwife Martha Ballard.
Her daily New England life was as much a part of this book as was her midwife legacy.
Through Martha, the reader can see what a woman's life was like in the late 1700s - early 1800s, which can be summed up in childbirth and hard work.
This will be a book I return to time and again.
I found this hard to read and a little tedious. Part of it is Martha's style and spelling. And the author was very factual and did not embellish, which added to the difficult reading. Very non-fiction. But the substories are actually very interesting. Can't believe the crime!
This is not a fast or easy read. And I'm not sure I even ended up liking Martha Ballard very much. But I learned a lot about something I knew very little. Worth my time and effort.
Really delightful, and a fascinating approach to history.
Shouldn't it be a goal to replace our mistaken assumptions or misunderstandings with a better picture of how it really was, or to try to fill in the gaps a little more, even if that challenges previous conclusions?Early on in her introduction to the Pulitzer-Prize-winning A Midwife's Tale, historian Laurel Thatcher Ulrich mentions that several other historians have been aware of Martha Ballard's diary and even quoted parts of it in their histories of Augusta, Maine, but "those few historians who have known about the diary have not known quite what to do with it." The repetitive structure, the rhythm of domestic chores and seasonal planting, growing, and harvesting cycles of life on a farm, were dismissed as unimportant "trivia".
Laurel Ulrich takes the basic diary entries of early midwife Martha Ballard (diary from 1785-1812)in Maine, and puts the entries in the context of the times when she lived.
The diary records the day-to-day life of a wife, mother, midwife, and householder in post-Revolution America with entries about gardening, soap making, visitors, weather, spinning, weaving, etc and Ulrich expands the entries with information about how these daily activities affected the local economy, and how Martha Ballard's contributions kept her husband and family functioning and solvent.
Ulrich fits Martha Ballard's life into the bigger picture of early New England society, and the role of women in it.
Instead of telling us in droning detail about a variety of different roles women had in early US history, she shows us the life of midwife Martha Ballard, using her diary and other primary sources from Hallowell (now Augusta) to do so.Throughout, Ulrich focuses on three themes: Social Medicine (that is, medicine practiced by women), the social web between members of communities, and the separate spheres of men & women's lives.
It's not just these three topics, but how a woman's stage in life impacted her abilities and her role in her family and community.As well, Ulrich does this in a way that is engaging to the reader.
Ulrich uses the diary as a springboard to talk about a wide range of social and political issues—everything from sexual morality (40% of the deliveries Martha carried out were births to unmarried women!) to changes in attitudes towards medicine to politics and religion—comparing and contrasting it with other surviving (male-authored) sources from the time.
The picture we get is of a world in which women had much greater involvement in the social and economic life of their communities than "traditional" historical narratives would have us believe.
It took me a while to get to it but it was worth it once I got there!Ulrich uses the diary of Martha Ballard to provide a look into late 18th, early 19th century New England life that is absent from most other sources.
The diary entries are themselves interesting but it is Ulrich's relation of those entries to the events of the region and to other sources that make Martha Ballard into something more than just some words on paper.
She makes them real for us in a way that the diary alone could not.Highly recommended!
A Midwife's Tale offers in-depth look at life in Colonial New England, covering not only midwifery and medicine, but also the social, economic and political aspects. The non-diary sections tend to be dry, but very informative. If I had an interest in politics or economics this would be at least a four-star read.You might also enjoy:Nonfiction✱ The Midwife Trilogy series✱ American Jezebel: The Uncommon Life of Anne Hutchinson, the Woman Who Defied the PuritansFiction✱ Quaker Midwife Mystery series
The structure of American society in New England in the late 18th century was significantly different than what I'd pictured.
Families were building out in nearly unoccupied land, more like what I thought of mid-western pioneers in later history.
I did know that the work just to stay fed and clothed was almost unending, but it was interesting to see some of the structure around all the labor.
Religion was all-pervasive in Martha Ballard's diary, but the doctrine of the time was conflicted and continually splintering rather than rigid and solid, as people who preach the "Founding Father's" beliefs would like us to think.
