https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/144791.Seven_Deadly_Wonders
I'm a pretty open-minded girl (sometimes) and I've never had anything against these poor, innocent punctuation marks, but there is only so much forced excitement the little heart I don't have can take.
So tragic.Please, person-who-is-supposed-to-be-Matthew-Reilly, listen to Marky Mark here, the guy knows his stuff.
They might be nothing more than lowly barnacles, but they have one or two grey cells, and they WILL eventually get the point all by their little selves.So. Now that I've brilliantly established how delightfully written this book is, let me tell you about the fascinating story itself.
I was disappointed and finally put it aside as I have a lot of books waiting to be read and this isn't one I want to put my time into nor can I recommend it.(view spoiler)[ Okay, just us now.
(It would be like if they hadn't made people realize how BAD it is to drive SUVs, smoke [in public], use incandescent light-bulbs, eat Whopper Burgers, candy bars, drink sugared soft drinks or for that matter if they can't outlaw Big-Gulps and other drinks over sixteen ounces.) Our heroes (of course) want to replace the stone for "noble reasons" the other two groups (basically the Freemasons and the Catholic Church) want to save the world for "selfish nefarious" reasons (You know like THRUSH in the man from U.N.C.L.E. or KAOS from Get Smart who wanted to destroy the world for personal gain [don't ask me I didn't write it]).Anyway, the bad guys have guns.
I say it's SF, but that's only because I haven't bothered to add an Action/Adventure category.For this is what it is!
Hell, the whole book is mystically special.
:) Add heavy Dan Brown-ish conspiracy theories, wild ancient stories, the Giza Pyramid's capstone, and you'll have a wild feel like the original GI Joe cartoon when they were all on that mystical quest stuff.Don't get me wrong.
I like a good and kooky comic book feel culminating with evil Masonic Americans and evil Catholic Amon Ra worshipers in Europe.
I suppose if I had to explain why this book was so amazingly awful in a few words, I could simply point out that the characters were flat, uninteresting stereotypes, the plot was a sad, lame attempt at copying an Indiana Jones movie smashed together with a Dan Brown novel, and the writing itself was so incompetent that a seventh grade teacher would be hard-pressed to give it a good grade.Then there's the fact that the motivations of characters and events are told to us with embarrassing clumsiness, major plot points are illogical to the point of absurdity (even beyond the suspension of disbelief you need for a story that revolves around the magical power of the Great Pyramid), and sweeping generalizations based on nationality are made at every turn, with the Evil Americans heading the pack.But there's so much more to the horrific tragedy that is this book!The plot is basically this: the missing top of the Great Pyramid of Giza has magical powers that will give one country on Earth supreme power if they put some dirt in it on a certain date.
To read a story in which our intrepid heroes track down these wonders, not for selfish reasons, but to save the world, was both interesting and exciting.
(hide spoiler)]I have to say, I liked that Reilly wasn't afraid to make the Americans the bad guys.
I like that Reilly writes fun books.
At the same time, I felt like he worked hard to deliver a good quality read, and a lot of plotting went into this story.
(Warning: Run on sentence!) If you like ancient history but want to have fun at the same time, this book is for you.
What do you suppose would happen if an adventure novel got viciously mugged by a big fish tale?
Now listen, if you want paeans to technology, stick to Clancy.
Odes to science?
But for sheer exuberance, not to mention all the momentum of a monster avalanche, Matthew Reilly is definitely your go-to guy.
But there are rules here: throw logic out the window, along with anything you may know about military training, basic psychology, or the physical laws of our local universe.
I'm used to suspending my sense of disbelief when reading, but I wasn't aware when I started it that Matthew Reilly books require the reader to completely disregard the physical rules of our universe, maybe if I'd been forewarned I'd have enjoyed the book more.
If this were a tv series and those dots represented seven days between broadcasts then they would invoke a lot of tension, but when they involve dropping my eyes to the next line, something they have to do every dozen words anyway, all it does is irk.The three issues above are infused in a sentence of comedic genius about half way into the book.
You either love it or hate it...Reilly's writing style is reminiscent of the fight scenes in the TV Batman series of the sixties...Bam-He leapt onto the helicopter from the tree-ZoomRelentless, totally implausible high octane scene followed by well, ditto...
and then once more and just when you need a breather you are plunged headlong into a crocodile infested pit on your way to saving the world from mysterious shadow organisations operating within governments...
oh and of course the President is always one of these Freemasons who got to power solely to further his agenda...
I couldn't cope with the appalling writing style.He writes a line - - and carries it on.And I could have played bingo with the sheer number of the word 'suddenly.'Worst crime?Ending one chapter with: "Jack had made a terrible mistake"And starting the next one with "No, he hadn't"WHAT?!
I have to round down because what started off pretty fun got so over the top by the end that I was constantly rolling my eyes.Audiobook: William Dufris is a pretty good narrator that I've enjoyed from John Scalzi's Old Man War series.
I bet a better author could have made a really good story out of it.It's too bad because I had pretty high hopes for this one, and since it's book 1 in a series, I figured I'd have a few to read.
The adventure of Indiana JonesThe exotic locations of The Bourne IdentityThe underworlds of The Da Vinci CodeThe action of James BondThe mystery of Tomb RaiderThe terror of The MummyAn easy 5 stars.
بچه گانه بود!!!چند تا ویژگی بد داشت.1) این جور کتابها معمولاً یک پایههای تاریخی درست دارند که نویسنده سعی میکنه توی کتاب مطرح کنه. تاریخ واقعی. توی این کتاب این بخشها خیلی خسته کننده بودند. چون یک دفعه چندین صفحه، مثل کلاس تاریخ، پشت سر هم و به صورت مونولوگ نوشته شده بودند. عین کلاس درس. خسته کننده بود.2) نویسنده حق داره نظرات سیاسی خودش رو توی کتاب مطرح کنه. ولی نه اینکه تلقین کنه. نه اینکه چندین صفحه پشت سر هم مسایل سیاسی رو بدون ظرافت خاصی، تو مایههای مرگ بر آمریکا بنویسه.3) خالی بندی یکی از
بچه گانه بود!!!چند تا ویژگی بد داشت.1) این جور کتاب‌ها معمولاً یک پایه‌های تاریخی درست دارند که نویسنده سعی میکنه توی کتاب مطرح کنه.
توی این کتاب این بخشها خیلی خسته کننده بودند.
خسته کننده بود.2) نویسنده حق داره نظرات سیاسی خودش رو توی کتاب مطرح کنه.
نه اینکه چندین صفحه پشت سر هم مسایل سیاسی رو بدون ظرافت خاصی، تو مایه‌های مرگ بر آمریکا بنویسه.3) خالی بندی یکی از عناصر کلیدی این ژانر به حساب میاد.
یا اینکه یه تک تیرانداز بتونه پشت سرهم موشکهای آرپی‌جی رو توی هوا بزنه!!!!
چه خبره بابا؟ و خیلی چیزهای دیگه.4) آخر داستان خیلی همه چیز خوب تموم شد.

Some time ago, I gave this book to a friend as a gift.
I owe my friend an apology.
Wow, what dreck.
The author's ridiculously breathless writing style, obviously intended to tell us that This!
The characters go around nearly-dying in nasty traps, complete with choppy exclamatory prose, only to breeze through other traps whenever the author wants to take the easy way out.
Unless the bird, whose name is Horus, is ACTUALLY THE GOD HORUS, I don't think so!
I don't think I can take six more wonders' worth of exclamation marks.
I really enjoyed this book - so much so that I finished it in about a day and a half.
I haven't read a book that was so fast paced in a while, the characters were engaging and the storyline was really interesting.
It seems a little patronising to the reader to italicise a sentence whenever a dangerous trap was triggered or something unusual happened, which was quite a lot.However, overall I REALLY enjoyed it!
I'm not usually one to re-read books, but I'll definitely be going back to this one.
It adds nothing to the story and only tells me the author is looking to find some kind of shock value in language where he couldn't add it by the story itself.Reilly even takes a poke at George Bush by calling him an imperialist in the questions section at the back.
Not a good idea to use your fiction books as a platform for your politics, Matt, old buddy.
A brilliant yet deadly, tomb raiding, treasure hunting soldier with one mechanical arm.Please pass this book by if you are looking for intellectual stimulation.
This was Die Hard for your reading (or listening) pleasure.This is precisly the type of audiobook I like.
I cannot read these action novels.
I feel stupid reading them and somehow feel justified in listen to them.
7 Wonders is sure to keep you listening, if not to see what treasure they find next, to see who is the next to die and by what ancient and deadly trap.
Not my cup of tea. Action is all well and good, but it should contain some heart. I did not care for any of these characters and the story was unbelievable to say the least. I had trouble with the text too. The variation of sentence length down to the one-word sentences were vexing. I know it's supposed to keep your interest and make story flow, but there were too many other problems for that to happen. Too many italics and exlamation marks as well. The world could have just gone under by the end for all I cared.
It was the book that hooked me to the writing of Matthew Reilly. I mean WOW!! what a story and more than the story the pace and details with all those nifty little diagrams and all. As the description says it about 2 teams to find Seven ancient wonders before other so that they can rule the world for next millennium. Fast pace, totally over the top and above all great fun, recommended for all who love to read.
What can I say - I am officially a die-hard Matt Reilly fan!
This was my second book by Reilly and it was as great as the first one!
I look forward to reading many more.This is an action packed adventure tale that doesn't slow down.
At least that was the case for me!It's a great story, with an Indiana Jones type flair and maybe a bit of Tomb Raider and a touch of James Bond action/inventions.....
Was Indiana Jones believable, nope!, but I still love him and his adventures!
It’s a book that literally flies along—kind of the way it flew off the used book table at the church flea market and into my hands, which in turn forced me to part with fifty cents.I tend to judge books in the Cussler/Rollins/Preston genre by the number of times I tear my eyes from the page so I can roll them.
The tomb is carved inside a mountain and loaded with traps: crocodiles (how did they live underground for four hundred years?), pits with poisonous spears (if the spears don’t get you the poison…), rivers of flaming oil (apparently ok for crocodiles to live in), massive boulders crashing towards the ever-inventive raiders (does anyone know, or care, Spielberg borrowed the rolling boulder in the first Indy movie from a 1960’s adventure film staring Pat Boone?), and on and on.
Дори може да се каже, че малко или много опознаваш героите, дори и те да остават хем доста плоски, хем доста идеализирани до самия край.Както и при книгата на Беър Грилс, и тук историята ми се видя представена малко наивно и опростено.
Или по-скоро като извадени от видеоигра?
Може би този тип приключенски трилъри се пишат така, а аз съм разглезена малко от наскоро открития от мен Луис Монтеро...
Но пък да търсиш дълбочина в приключенски роман е малко глупаво, признавам си.
Това си е като филм на хартия.
Висящите градини наистина бяха величествени и май са причината да се залепя за книгата до късно снощи...
This is the fourth Reilly book I've read and though I've enjoyed them all, they keep getting more and more ridiculous.
Which makes me laugh all the harder at the review here which ridicules American audiences for not being able to pick up on subtlety.
Subtlety?
Seriously, if you can't use language to describe your story, just write a screenplay and get it over with.Like I said, I have really enjoyed the other Reilly books I've read, but if this one gets any sillier, I'm dropping it.In a nanosecond.
Even with it's total lack of characterization and plot, it's insane over-abundance of exclamation points!!!, and the fact that it reads like something that came from the mind of a sugar-fed fourth grader with ADHD, Ice Station is still one of my very favorite books of all time.
Unlike Ice Station, this book had a plot, but it sucked.
The overblown action scenes in Reilly's other books, which were long and ridiculous, and unbelievable (but fun!), were way too overblown in this one, and just ended up being stupid nonsense.

Just look at all the other 1-star reviews.
I couldn't even get past 50 pages.
This book was stupidly written, bad plot, flat characters, tropes EVERYWHERE and why did he need to use...
italics everywhere?
It just breaks-The Flow!!!
of the story.And the diagrams.
You describe something in the book, about 5 times, but then for good measure, add a crappy diagram in case I still didn't get it.Bear in mind people, I actually didn't get past the first 50 pages, so all this happens at once.
And it just gets worse.
I gave up after one session.
What happened, dude?
There isn't a Matthew Reilly book that I haven't read yet that I haven't enjoyed.If you like fast-paced, oh-my-God-I-can't-believe-this-is-happening type of books that are full of the literally unbelievable, then you'll also enjoy this book.The described locations, such as Giza pyramid was just one of the amazing settings as a massive puzzle must be solved in order for our hero to save the world. Jack West is one of my favorite characters by Matthew Reilly.
SO awesome! Like seriously. BAM
Unfortunately the public library (which is also the high school library in my town) only had three of the authors books - none of which were ones my friend recommended.
Oops...wrong!First, let's look at the writing style, which is choppy and fragmented and appears to be something the author had started when he was in 5th grade, and it sat in a drawer for a few years.
In this book Jack West Jr, a crack team smaller nations and a 10 year old girl try to solve clues to uncover the pieces of the capstone of the great pyramid hidden inside the seven wonders of the ancient world.
They are competing against two other teams - one from the US and one from the EU.I find Matthew Reilly's books very fast and the story keeps moving, which is why I enjoy his writing.
One issue I did have with the book was that I couldn't understand how Jack West Jr didn't understand how they were being tracked.
