https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/368819.Topaz
”’Look up Wilson and Roosevelt’s declaration-of-war speeches to the congress and work up a draft...in case we need it,’ the President said.” Nothing suspicious about all that!!The Cuban Missile Crisis is, in my opinion and the opinion of many others, the closest we have come to World War Three. The citizens in America and Russia were not the only nervous people; the whole world was nervous. The struggle for power, as history has shown, never contains itself just to the principles involved. It bl
John Forsythe plays Michael Nordstrom in the 1969 movie.This story begins with the defection of Boris Kuznetov, a highly placed Russian official who learns he is about to be executed, but instead of placidly accepting his fate he approaches Michael Nordstrom, an American intelligence officer, with an offer of information for his life and the lives of his family.
Frederick Stafford is Andre Devereaux in the movie version of Topaz.Let’s make a quick list of Andre’s problems.1) He might end up in one of the many, many prisons that have been created since the revolution in Cuba.
Topaz, Leon UrisTopaz is a Cold War suspense novel by Leon Uris, published in 1967 by McGraw-Hill. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هشتم ماه آگوست سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: توپاز؛ اثر: لئون اوریس؛ مترجم: سیروس پزشک؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، امیرکبیر، 1349، در 352 ص، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی – قرن 20 مرمان است اما رخدادهائی که نویسنده به تصویر کشیده واقعی هستند، کانال سوئز و ... ا. شربیانی
Topaz, Leon UrisTopaz is a Cold War suspense novel by Leon Uris, published in 1967 by McGraw-Hill. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هشتم ماه آگوست سال 1976 میلادیعنوان: توپاز؛ اثر: لئون اوریس؛ مترجم: سیروس پزشک؛‌ مشخصات نشر: تهران، امیرکبیر، 1349، در 352 ص، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آمریکایی – قرن 20 مرمان است اما رخدادهائی که نویسنده به تصویر کشیده واقعی هستند، کانال سوئز و ... ا. شربیانی
Although I forgot the story line years ago, the general viewpoint Uris provided has colored my attitudes ever since.
I don't recall reading any other Uris novels until a few weeks ago when I picked up Topaz.
Things changed when I was well into the book and realized that the major plot involves Soviet infiltration of the French intelligence community.
Topaz' premise is that Soviet-generated disinformation was a major factor in the development of French antipathy toward the US during the sixties.
Topaz did not impact my thinking the way Mila 18 did, but it really was a good, although dated, story.
It's been years since I read a Leon Uris novel. I think "Mila 18" was the last one I read. Great writer. There is a certain " black and white TV era" feel to this novel that I really liked. Early 1960's, spies, the Cold War. Still a couple of Uris novels I have on my list to read. He's just a terrific writer.
I first read this in the late 1960's and I thought then that it was an excellent book about the Cuban missile crisis. I have recommended it since as one of Leon Uris's finest stories, after Exodus, of course!
A mediocre espionage thriller with some superfluous and sexist relationship drama. I read it because it's the source for a Hitchcock film, though indeed one of the Master's least successful efforts.
What was the worst part of this book?
The one-dimensionally cliche spy-novel characters?
The unrelenting misogyny?
The wistful yearning for the Batista days in Cuba?
It's no accident, I guess, that even as a Uris reader I have never heard of this book.
EXODUS, sadly, seems to have been the exception, rather than the rule.
To believe these characters, the only greater threat to mankind than Communism is women, and how horrible they are that they dare to express their unhappiness when their men have affairs, either of the business or the romantic variety, both of which they apparently need like air and water.
This is my third Leon Uris book and I am never disappointed. This takes the reader into the world of post WWII espionage. As with the his other books, Uris does a lot of back stories on the characters. When I read the summary of this book it stated it was about the Cuban Missile Crisis. But it really it is more about espionage between the US, France, Cuba and Russia. How did the information on the missiles reach our government, who were the people who collected and moved the information. I couldn't put it down till the last page.
When I saw the title "Topaz"the first thing that came to my mind was precious stone but on a closer 
America: They think that Russia is shipping offensive missiles into Cuba.
Russia: A reluctant former KGB operative defects and claim tbat he has very important information that could help America and her NATO counterparts in subduing the Soviet Union.
France: It has a very insecure intelligence department.
It's full of leaks from the inside and used by Russia to get information relating to the other sister countries of the NATO pact.
The men at the center of all this are Boris, the defector, the French diplomat to the USA and intelligence officers ib the United States Government.
In Topaz he manages to combine stories about the Cuban Missile Crises, Soviet infiltration of French intelligence agencies and some WWII history into a well told tale of Cold War drama.
The book is fast paced and fairly linear with only a brief flashback to WWI to flesh out the main character and his colleagues in French intelligence.
The only part of the book that I didn’t like was the 1960’s era psychobabble regarding the protagonist’s relationship with his wife but it is true to the times so you cannot fault the author for not developing his own psychology for the occasion.
This is a very interesting book on a variety of levels.
The story line sits around and wanders back and forth through the history of the Cuban Missile Crisis.
He does this in numerous ways starting before WWII and after reading the book I had a much firmer grasp on why the French and the Americans always seem to be a little frustrated by each other.
While the material and the novel are quite dated, this book clearly shows you that you don't have to read the "current" stuff to learn something via fiction.
Perhaps his most known book is EXODUS, about the Israeli settlement of a portion of Palestine, made into a movie with Paul Newman and featuring an overly dramatic, but memorable score.TOPAZ spins a story with the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962, told chiefly from the POV of a French Security Agent who had agents in Cuba and contacts in the USA.
For example, in TOPAZ, the French President was fooled into thinking the Cuban Missile Crisis was a manufactured event between the Russians and the Americans to sideline France as a major power.
The two agents, along with a group of Cuban exiles and Soviet defectors globe trot around the world to stop a very deep plot.
It takes a serious real world event and adds a fictional account of a separate event.
During the actual Cuban Missile Crisis in separate news Soviet defector Anatoliy Golitsyn indicated that the French government had been penetrated at the highest levels by the KGB.
Golitsyn became friends with author Uris.
Considering that Uris had the man at the center of one of the global crises created by the Soviet Union his fictionalized account should have been better.
Leon Uris always builds believable characters and compelling story lines.
Topaz is a Cold War thriller filled with deception and spies and takes place in the middle of the Cuban Missile Crisis.
Uris doesn't want to retell the story of the missile crisis so I understand his focus on the fictional spies, defectors, diplomats and politicians.
Nonetheless, this is one instance in which the real story exceeded fiction in its intensity and drama.
Like all Uris books, it is exceptionally well written, the story line is engaging and the main characters are compelling not only through their work, but their personal lives as well.
Antes de rever la película dirigida por Alfred Hitchcock quería destacar aquí el hecho de que, cuando todo el mundo se espera el clásico relato sobre espías de la Guerra Fría, en vez de tener a irónicos agentes de lengua mordaz, puño de acero, gatillo fácil e impecables modos (bueno.
¿La crisis de los misiles cubanos la salvaron entre un alto cargo de la inteligencia francesa, su amante cubana, un desertor soviético y dos o tres agentes americanos?
¿Y con la participación de cierto escritor (cameo a lo Hitchcock en la novela) que no terminaba de caer bien a la crítica?
Andre Devereaux is a French patriot, working in intelligence and stationed in DC.
While serving in his post a Soviet spy defects to the US with his family and requests Andre be present at his debriefing.
Andre has no idea why but makes every arrangement to help out the US.
And the Soviet drops a bomb - don't tell Andre's superiors in France anything because everything that goes into the high offices in France goes directly to Moscow.
Throw in Cuba, a woman other than Andre's wife, a rabid US hater as the French President and we have a good story.
Tengo la sensación de que esta novela no tiene una buena vejez. Se puede entender la visión maniquea de buenos y malos representados por norteamericanos y soviéticos respectivamente, en consideración a la época en que fue escrita,pero francamente los estereotipos femeninos y masculinos presentes serían impresentables en una novela actual, en un mundo que quiere caminar hacia la equidad de género en pleno siglo XXI.
Topaz tells a slightly-alternative history of the Cold War-era Cuban Missile Crisis. It focuses on how a charismatic but unhinged, narcissistic, and jingoistic leader rises to power in post-WWII France and allows his administration to be infiltrated by Russian spies and collaborators. It is, therefore, a very prescient and timely novel.
I always enjoy Leon Uris. He's not the world's most literary man, but I've always enjoyed his style and this book was no different. I love how proud he is of America and how he portrays history and it's easy to get caught up in the lives of his characters. This isn't my number one book of his, but it's an easy, enjoyable read.
Interessante, embora datado a vários níveis e insuportavelmente machista. Abertamente pró-americano, o que não admira, e muito anti-francês - nestes tempos de politicamente correcto, se calhar o autor era obrigado a pedir desculpas públicas à França e aos franceses. Mas a história está bem contada e tem até uma subtil auto-ironia no final, que nos faz sorrir.
Trite. The story is completely predictable and the women are cardboard cutouts and the crappy writing of the men appreciating womens' figures and whatnot may have been acceptable when this book was written but it's not now. There's certainly not enough quality to redeem it.
Excellent, magnificent, super...There is no word good enough to describe this superb spy novel. Under the backdrop of Cuban missile crisis, the author has woven an unparalleled spy story.
A ringside seat to history.I felt like a fly on the wall as the Cuban missile crisis unfolds. I was a child when it occurred and could never imagined what preceded it. A stunning glimpse of history!
Looking backI remember the Cuban missal crisis...and this was a great story surrounding the situation. An old novel, but definitely worth a read to re-live the history of that time.
Thiller a la virja usanza. André Devereaux es un personaje fantástico, cuya concentración, astucia, amor y temor salen de las páginas cada vez que toma el escenario. Los lugares y sus descripciones son fluidas y el ritmo de la historia nunca abruma o aburre.
Good Read of Remembrance I lived through the angst of the Cuban missile crisis and Topaz brings that time back to me with frightening realism! It exposes the intrigue we the public we're not privy to and goes behind the headlines
Not my favorite by this author, still a very good read.
I like historical fiction. just sayin. If you like it too, Uris is the master. Read this one. That is all.
What a timeless readRelive the Cuban missle crisis with a great contemporary novelist. Uris brings the early 60s to life in Washington, Paris and Havana.
