https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46105.Between_the_Acts
On that day, an uninvited guest arrives at Pointz Hall where the pageant is about to take place, a guest who might well be Lady Wishfort from William Congreve’s Restoration comedy, The Way of the World vulgar as she was, in her gestures, in her whole person, over-sexed, over-dressed for a pageant.And so Mrs Manresa ogles her way though the household at Pointz Hall, from Candish, the butler, to Giles, the man of the house, to his elderly father, Bartholomew.

Woolf exposes her characters to their naked reflections, bared of pretense, and by doing so, she forces the reader to participate actively in their struggles, to feel the pull of desire against their moral standards, to acknowledge a broken reality that is sterile and shattered, whose pieces sparkle under the sunbeams of an indifferent sun, which continues to rise regardless of the countless trauma that the human soul deals with every new day.
The novel feels more like an interlude, an interruption into the lives of her characters and their preparation for a pageant that would be happening irrespective of the reader’s obtrusive presence.
Outside the realms of fiction (hard to believe such a place actually exists I know) we don’t have introductions or kindly narrators to give us information.
This is part of Woolf’s aim here, and I do appreciate what she was trying to do, though it meant that the novel was rather hard to read and even harder to actually enjoy with its emphasis on descriptive information dumps.It’s experimental writing, and the experiment is just not to my taste.
il romanzo che virginia woolf lasciò sulla sua scrivania insieme alle lettere per il marito leonard e la sorella nessa, quando uscì di casa per entrare in un fiume, quello di cui disse che era troppo sciocco e frivolo per essere pubblicato, è in realtà la cosa più struggente che io abbia letto di suo finora.l’impalpabilità della trama, l’esperimento con una scrittura centripeta che cambia continuamente asse e lo spunto lieve - una compagnia di attori dilettanti che imbastisce uno spettacolino teatrale in una casa di campagna - sembrarono a woolf inadatti al momento storico drammatico.
I have a real sense of regret here with this final book of Virginia Woolf.
I personally feel that it should not have been published.
Her permisson had not been given to publish it either.
Still many other people love this book and that's the main thing.This is a fascinating individual who wrote the most superb Diaries and Letters.
I love them and they are a great source of joy to me.In conclusion I would add that I'm surprised that a film has not been made (perhaps it has and I am unaware of it) of the final years of Woolf's life.
The story opens before the summer pageant and play at Pointz Hall, about a three-hour train ride from London, if the trains are running on time to this remote place.
His stockbroker son, Giles, and wife, Isa, also live there; they are having problems with their marriage.The story revolves around the pageant and splits between the interactions of the Oliver household with visitors at the pageant and the play being performed.
The title itself could be a play on the inter-war period with World War I as the first act and WWII as the second with the characters living in the intermission.
The story opens before the summer pageant and play at Pointz Hall, about a three-hour train ride from London, if the trains are running on time to this remote place.
The title itself could be a play on the inter-war period with World War I as the first act and WWII as the second with the characters living in the intermission.
The quote I used as a header was a thought Isa had while watching the play and very much reflects Woolf's writing.
Like most of Virginia Woolf's novels, Between the Acts is a difficult read for the reasons I mentioned above, but like most of her work it is very well worth reading.
But that's not to suggest that it isn't good - remember, this is Virginia Woolf, so when I say that it didn't strike me as much as her other ones, I only mean that this book felt like a minor blow to the head, rather than feeling like I was being remade from the inside out.
Water, for hundreds of years, had silted down into the hollow, and lay there four or five feet deep over a black cushion of mud.
Under the thick plate of green water, glazed in their self-centered world, fish swam - gold, splashed with white, streaked with black or silver.
Molto presente anche Shakespeare, e non solo a livello di citazioni: l’intera struttura dell’opera ricorda parecchio il Sogno d’una notte di mezza estate, col contrappunto fra la vita dei signori della villa e la recita un po’ scalcinata e ingenua dei villici locali; ma la Woolf si diverte a giocare anche qui, perché, se la costruzione ricorda Shakespeare, al contrario che nel suo teatro qui sono rispettate rigorosamente le unità di tempo e di luogo: ma sono rispettate, per ironia, nel romanzo, e non nella sequenza di quadri storici e allegorici che vengono materialmente portati sul palcoscenico; e a proposito di unità aristoteliche, a un certo punto la scrittrice non manca di menzionare Racine, che peraltro uno dei personaggi ritiene alquanto noioso.
I love Virginia Woolf's "Letters" and "Diaries". I often look at them as they show her wit. They are brilliant and compelling reading. I also thoroughly enjoyed her novel "Mrs Dalloway" but this book, well I'm sorry but it's not for me at all. I liked it initially and then I lost interest. It appeared to be full of fripperies.Such a shame...
Entre os Actos - o último romance de Virginia Woolf, que concluiu mas já não reviu, - foi publicado, pelo seu marido, meses depois do seu suicídio.É uma obra com uma estrutura original constituída por dois planos narrativos: o romance tradicional no qual, a dado momento, as personagens assistem a uma peça de teatro representada por eles próprios.As personagens principais são um casal, Isa e Giles, que não sabem se se amam ou se odeiam e cuja sombra da infidelidade, potencial não real, paira sobre eles.
Sós, a hostilidade ficava a descoberto; e o amor também.
The novel's intense interest in precultural histories, "thoughts without words" & the like makes for a wonderfully philosophical read, but you never feel overburdened by abstraction; the strange ideas are presented through the characters' encounters with them, much in the way we, the readers, might likewise encounter them.The writing left me misty-eyed and out of breath on numerous occasions (the final scene with Miss La Trobe, for example, may contain five of the best pages of prose styling in all of literature).
Ok, I just never feel adequate when I try talking about Woolf--god knows how I felt assured enough to write a paper on the novel.
Ed anche quando la Signora La Trobe, autrice e regista della rappresentazione, probabile alter ego di Virginia, mette ognuno esplicitamente sul palcoscenico davanti alla propria immagine usando specchi e vetri in mano agli attori, la consapevolezza dura un battito d’ali.
Un umorismo empatico, molto femminile, che rende questo romanzo unico tra quelli che ho letto della Woolf.@Asclepiade mi ha fatto notare che più che Pirandello la Woolf è legata a Shakespeare e che tutto Between Acts è un omaggio a quest’ultimo.
Del resto forse tutto il teatro discende da Shakespeare, anche Pirandello.
As I had not finished much of the assigned reading, I opted for the paper.
Woolf never finished editing this book.
On Wednesday, after I'd written most of a paper about some one being a foil to some one else, I realized her actual conclusion.
I stayed there for, seriously, a day and a half, until I finally found the other half of the conclusion: this is the way it's been, but things could be different.
And then I ended up rewriting the whole thing Friday afternoon and ran to submit it without reading it or editing.
The real difficulty in all this is that water is a recurring theme throughout Woolf’s oeuvre – and there is a lot of water imagery here that I’m not touching on – but the wish to be covered by water is especially striking in this last book, and deeply saddened me to read it.The war hangs heavy over this work – threats from above; the weather, birds, even literal planes; all darken the pages with their threat.
در میان نقشها ویرجینیا وولف الهه مرعشی نشر فرهنگ جاوید دوستداران ادبیات ولف را معمولا با چهار اثر دوره اوج خلاقیت ادبی اش (خانم دلووی، به سوی فانوس دریایی، اورلاندو و موج ها)می شناسند گرچه وولف به غیر از این چهار اثر ، اثاری دیگر نیز دارد .
در میان نقشها، از جمله آثار نه چندان معروف وولف و اخرین اثر او ،متعلق به زمانی است که شیدایی و افسردگی وولف به منتهای خود رسیده بود.این اثر دشوار و بسیار سخت خوان ،بدون طرح داستانی و حتی بدون پیرنگ ، با حضور بیش از پنجاه شخصیت و همچنین با دارا بودن ریتمی بسیار کند و مفاهیمی سمبولیک از دسته کتابهایی است که احتمالا خواننده های غیر جدی را با خود همراه نمیکند.
3.5 stars.
Nors jie juk nežinojo, kad tas metas yra prieš kažką - tik mes dabar taip matom, o tuo metu tai veikiausiai buvo priimtiniausias (beviltiškiausias?) elgesys sunkumų akivaizdoje.Ir greta viso to - Woolf, viena 1939 metų vasaros, birželio, diena.
Ji rašydama jau žinojo, kad ta diena yra - buvo - visai prieš pat karą, kurio pabaigos pati jau nesulaukė, žinojo ir apie politinį, ir apie asmeninį bejėgiškumą - kai tave kankina svetimi balsai (ar jie būtų išorėj, ar viduj), kurių negali kontroliuot ir nuo kurių tu niekur nepasislėpsi.
You know what I love the most about Virginia Woolf?
I am completely captivated by her novels.
When I am reading her, I find myself completely lost in her words.
Her descriptions bring her world together and it surrounds me in such a way that I just become part of it.
Virginia Woolf’s observant side is so evident here… it really takes your breath away if you allow yourself to go with the flow.
The way she knows people… probably better than they know themselves.
No more need to think.
Are they crazy to think?
Между действията = Между войните = Между антракта = Между отношенията.Тази книга раказва за една пиеса, която проследява развитието на Англия от малко невинно момиче, което говори с езика на елизабетинската епоха в първо действие, еволюира в езика на викторианската епоха във второ действие, а в трето действие завършва вместо с поклон от актьорите - с огледала срещу публиката.
От заглавието до най-незначимото и кратко изречение в съдържанието, "Между действията" поставя сериозни въпроси, които е трябвало да гърмят отвсякъде в навечерието на ВСВ.Книгата на Улф е кресливо тиха в тази си цел.
Настрана от това мое лично виждане към личността й, "Между действията"е най-тревожното произведение на Улф.
I always forget about Virginia Woolf despite everything of hers that I have read hits me in the gut and stays with me for years. Maybe I carry her around in my bones.
Although she's always been a mistress of the finely wrought sentence, here she fell into sheer poetry at times, using alliteration, assonance, syllabic rhythms, and even rhyme, making Between the Acts the most musical of all of her prose compositions.The themes, too, of English history, family, class, and social matters--Englishness basically--works so well in this setting: just six weeks before the beginning of the Second World War. But it's the musicality that drew me in and held me, the Joycean flow of the prose.
Utterly lovely.
Woolf's best formal experiment, in my humble opinion.
Obra magnífica, o simbolismo presente mesmo abarca não só a história cultural da Inglaterra, como arremata não apenas o momento em que foi em escrito em tintas diacrônicas como também a metalinguagem da autora. Três aspectos importantíssimos a serem considerados na leitura desse livro: 1939 e o século das guerras, modernismo literário e musical, por último mas não menos importante, o fato deste ser o último livro de Woolf antes do suicídio - se você se ater a essas três chaves mestras o simbolismo será destrinchado e se abrirá o leque de uma das mais soberbas obras de Woolf.
"Her gift meant nothing.
If they had understood her meaning; if they had known their parts; if the pearls had been real and the funds illimitable - it would have been a better gift.
Now it had gone to join the others.'A failure' , she groaned, and stooped to put away the records."Ainda bem que o li em inglês, talvez o livro mais orquestrado de virginia, os compassos, as rimas, as repetições, as pausas.
That said, the distancing effect was certainly Woolf’s intention, as the narrative itself not only sets out to blur distinctions between the generic markers of fiction and drama, but is just one of many boundary lines Woolf plays with: those separating audience and performer, and even author and reader when it comes to generating meaning.
The audience watching the pageant within the text, of course, but the reader also is being intentionally imbricated here, and I imagine the author is including herself as well.
An impossible question, and one undermined somewhat by the text itself, which continuously waves off the past and even the future to place the emphasis instead on the present moment.
Isa's inner world like the inner world of all human beings if held to mirror would as all Woolf's characters do display clipped and jangled fragments of thought aflight in barn swallow dips and dives between the acts of everyday life.
If this story went on she might would drown herself too, but it doesn't, so.The story is a day in the life, countryside England in the summer of 1939 on the estate of Bartholomew Oliver of Pointz Hall, where an annual afternoon play or pageant is to be performed outside weather permitting on the lawn and attended by many of the local country folk landowners to benefit the nearby church with donations.
Rather than worrying about whether or not they will recognize themselves when the end comes, the characters focus on what they can recognize now: that is to say, the presence of and forfeit to an end that is the beginning of something we as humans cannot appreciate.
"Between the Acts" encourages us to remember that structures of human meaning abandoned, "words without meaning," are, nonetheless, "wonderful words" (144).
I'm still not sure what it is about this closing idea that makes the novel more recognizably Woolf than it previously had.
It's questions like these that makes Woolf such a persistently vital part of my life.
Even though the play within this story doesn’t mesh as flawlessly as I would have liked with the story itself, the ideas that do work, the allusions to war, the exhibit of life’s patterns and human nature show that unmistakeable Virginia Woolf mark of brilliance.
I’m never disappointed with how she ends her books.And now for the part I liked best (the villagers watching the play, a metaphor of war and its impact on the world): “She had forbidden music.
Unable to lift her hand, she stood facing the audience.And then the shower fell, sudden, profuse.No one had seen the cloud coming.
Down it poured like all the people in the world weeping.
nostalgia for the age it was written in. Tragedy of connection. Fragmented gestures. Whispers of drowning.
