https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41044096-island-of-the-blue-dolphins
it teaches young girls everything they will ever need to know in their resourceful lives: how to build a fence out of whale bones, how to kill giant squids, how to alternately befriend and defend against scary wild dogs, and how to make skirts from cormorant feathers.
since i got kicked out of brownies and never got to learn All The Things That Girl Scouts Learn, this book taught me how to wilderness-survive.
and now i live in queens.
so - not much use for it, but still a book i have such a fondness for.
i need to read this again.
She's just shy of 10, and so ready to think herself capable of being away from adults and alone on an island, stringing beads for necklaces and communing with wild dogs.And that's about all I remembered from this 6th grade read of mine: a girl, stranded alone on an island.
Okay, so, stranded island girl, wild dogs, abalone.
this book's ability to provoke some thoughtful conversations.See, this story's not so strong on character development or dialogue (does anyone even speak??), but our island girl, Karana, is faced with many predicaments.
★★☆☆☆If this book just so happens to be one of your childhood favorites, and you notice my rating here, you may be asking yourself, “Why must I forever be soiling all the things you hold dear?” Ah, that’s a good question and one that I often ponder myself. But, in fairness, I didn’t actually hate this story. According to the GR rating standards, two and a half stars means it was slightly better than “okay,” but I can’t quite say that I “liked it.” How about I just say it was underwhelming and le
According to the GR rating standards, two and a half stars means it was slightly better than “okay,” but I can’t quite say that I “liked it.” How about I just say it was underwhelming and leave it at that?The story is that of a twelve-year-old girl who, through a series of unfortunate events, winds up marooned on a deserted island.
I walked here; I paddled there; I made this; I caught that; I built a shelter; I watched for ships; the winds blew heavily; the stars shone brightly; the seasons turned; the years passed.
Back in the '70s and early '80s teachers liked to make their students cry, and so they forced them to read books like Island of the Blue Dolphins, which is just the kind of good old fashioned heartbreaking stuff to do the trick!It starts of great this story of a Chumash (local natives to the Santa Barbara, California area) tribe taken by surprise by fur hunters and then taken from their island, accidentally leaving behind a brother and a sister.
I figured this weekend was as good time as any to read this while I was visiting Santa Barbara, since the real life story it's based upon happened on one of the islands just off the coast.
Might I be bored, annoyed, or disgusted with Scott O'Dell's many works from the viewpoints of young women? If I read them now, sure, I might be.But I SWORE BY Scott O'Dell when I was 10-12 years old, and I think that's what mattered. The girls in the books spoke to me, and they were written for me then, not for the me that is now.I will buy his books for my younger cousins, and hope they get the sense of self and adventure that these short novels offer.
Of course, as the days turn into months and the months turn into years, her animal friends move on or pass away, which only makes her even more lonely.In his footnotes, O’Dell says Island of the Blue Dolphins is based on the “the girl Robinson Crusoe [who:] actually lived alone upon this island from 1835 to 1853, and is known to history as The Lost Woman of San Nicolas.” I cannot fathom what that life would be like, but I thought O’Dell’s interpretation was pretty boring.
Karana’s entire tribe was killed when their boat sunk off the cost of present-day California, and she is unable to communicate with her rescuers, which only further plunges her into loneliness.It’s such a sad, lonely little book that I immediately shoved aside my other books and went to go bug my family into doing something together.
Funny what I remember from those childhood readings—my take away from it was that girls could do whatever they needed to and just as well as anyone else.Looking at it now through adult eyes, I see a lot more of what the author was trying to do.
Being a child with no playmates of my own age living close by our farm, I also spent a lot of time adventuring alone and could relate to her solitude.For me, this one stood the test of time.
I'm not crying. It's just raining on my face. I finished this book in record time. #WorthyOfAnOlympicGoldMedal.Full review to come. Probably.
A beautifully told historical account of a strong Native American girl. Audiobook version does it justice.
this is beautiful because it's based on a true story (she leaves the island with her skirt of cormorant feathers, which is on display at mission santa barbara) and because she was alone for eighteen years, and hid from russians, and dealt with wild dogs, and the loss of her brother.
it is beautiful, haunting, and a story of survival.
it's also very much a story of california - the earthquake, the seal hunting, etc.
hart assigned this to us - at the time, i was simply thrilled i got to read about binding whale bones with seal sinew to make a fence.
You know a book will stay with you forever when you reread it after probably 20 years and still hear your elementary school librarian's voice in your head as you read it.
a children's book, this is my all time favorite.
based on the true story of a young woman who had to survive alone on an island for more than 20 years.
typical me...i love stories about strong women.
i promised myself that when i "grew up," i would visit the grave-site of the woman who inspired the book.
when i lived in california, i finally made my way to the mission in santa barbara where she was buried.
for a moment i was able to flash back to my childhood self looking into the future...and i was moved that i kept the promise.
The book was also mysterious in a way, because the author never explained how did she end up with the dolphins and how they began to teach,nurture, and protect her from other predators.
My final thoughts of the book are that the author was trying to paint a picture of women being independent, and how women today are independent by working, going to school, and protecting theirself on their own.
So my final thoughts of the book was that the author's message was to explain how women are independent.
All of the people on an island are leaving together one day, on a boat.
If he was just going to get eaten by wolves either way, she might as well have stayed on the boat and be eating fresh sea bass right now.) Finally, she leaves the island.
Hey, maybe it wasn't such a bad thing that she missed the boat, after all!This book was awesome.
I could have finished the encyclopedia by now if I'd only focused on reading new things as a kid.
(By the way, I LOVED reading the encyclopedia when I was a kid.
This was the best book in my early elementary years.
I remember my first grade teacher, Mrs. Hendrickson, reading it to us over the course of a few weeks in serial form.
I read it myself in third grade.
And now, out of nostalgia (can you be nostaligic for your 8-10 year-old self?), I'm re-reading it.
I remembered it as the adventurous, though sad, life of a young girl.
Now it seems less about adventure and much more about the heart-breaking trials of a lonely girl, left alone and for dead.What the hell.
I liked the ending, even though there were sad parts.From my 6 year old:I liked about how she made weapons.
I liked how she made friends with animals on the island.I love when a book fits the three of us so well.
She was a great example to my kids and we had some really interesting discussions about the hard things she deals with.
My kids wanted to know specifically what was real and what wasn't (I can relate to that!) and I could tell them, thanks to O'Dell's great notes.
I read this back in school, probably in 5th or 6th grade.
(At least I think I did.) I just finished it at the age of 29 and I found myself fighting to get through it.
When I started it in June, I was excited but I couldn't keep up the enthusiasm past a few chapters.
It was incredibly boring.
It just plodded along and didn't get better.
How do middle grade children get through this book?
I don't think it's a classic because it truly failed to engage me.
The 2 stars are for the relationship the MC had with the wild dog.
Just being honest.
One of the key elements for historical fiction authenticity is research.
So it’s no wonder Scott O’Dell won the John Newberry Medal for “Island of the Blue Dolphins.” It’s well-written, brilliantly constructed, atmospheric, eloquently Spartan, fluid, and obviously well-researched.
In which “Island of the Blue Dolphins” is an engaging and entertaining great story that young and old alike can enjoy – a noteworthy and unique work of historical fiction.
And when thinking about the publishing date, its thirty-year popularity, and the amount of time and effort O’Dell and/or others put into research – “Island of the Blue Dolphins” becomes an exceptionally great, five-star top pick.
Karana's time alone on the island made me feel very sad; I could really identify with her loneliness, especially when she tried to row her canoe to the mainland.
Nothing frightens me more than the thought of being alone in a small vessel surrounded by endless miles of water, and I shared the fear which eventually caused her to turn back to her island home.Karana was a very resourceful and compassionate young woman.
However, it appears that life in California was not the best thing for her, for she had been on the mainland only seven weeks when she died.
Karana waits for the ship to come back.
While she does she goes after animals, builds shelter, gets food, whatever she has to do to survive.
The central idea of this story is it takes hard work to survive on an island.
Karana goes out everyday at dawn and returns at sunset.
Scott O' Dell created a book that was very fun and interesting to read, it was hard to put down the book.Scott O' Dell was very descriptive throughout this book and used lots of details.
This book wasn't to hard to read, it didn't have much dialogue and some of the vocabulary was a little tough.
I started this forrreeevvveeerr ago, but never finished it. I'm told it's decent; ten-year-old me just got bored. Who knows why. ;)
A traumatic tale of a young girl abandoned on an island. Turns out I did not read this as a child, though I thought I had. I have an image in my head after all these years that I thought belonged to this book. Now I’m curious to know what source it originates from.
me: 4 starsson (age 10): 2 starsdaughter (age 5): 2 starsI quite enjoyed this audio book overall, although after having just listened to The Cay, it felt a bit slow.
My kids did not enjoy it as much and were happy to be done with it.
He would have given it 1.5 stars, except that he did enjoy a couple of the humorous bits such as when the tame birds would swoop down and steal fur from the dog's back to use in their nests.
My daughter said that she didn't like the parts about the father, brother, and dog dying.
Reading a book for a second time, separated by 33 years is a curious thing.
I can recall the when and where of my first reading, and the basic plot, but the rest was just echos between the covers.
And had I not read this for a second time I might not have learned that this story was based upon a real event; a girl turned woman that was left on an island alone for 18 years in the mid 1800s.
Why was that not told to our class when we read this in 1982?
Truyện dựa trên một sự kiện có thật, có nghĩa là có một cô gái đã bị bỏ quên trên một hòn đảo nhỏ giữa đại dương mênh mông suốt 18 năm và không ai biết cô đã sống sót như thế nào.Dĩ nhiên Scott O'dell có những giả thuyết của riêng mình, và ông đã viết nên một câu chuyện cảm động về một cô gái kiên cường.
Cuốn sách này dành cho trẻ em thì quá xá đỉnh, vì không chỉ học được sự dũng cảm, tình yêu, bí quyết sống sót trên hoang đảo mà còn học được bao điều về thiên nhiên tươi đẹp, về những loài động vật hoang dã mà ta có thể làm bạn.
When Karana's brother and father die and the rest of her indian tribe go away to another island, she remains on the Island of the Blue Dolphins and has to fend for herself against the wild dogs and other animals. Can she survive? Read on and find out for yourself.This was a pretty good read so def check this one out. It is available at your local library and wherever books are sold.
Also, I was (and kind of still am) all about dialogue, and the main character, Karana, spends several years completely alone on an island.
She makes a shelter, learns to bow-hunt, and staves off loneliness by cultivating relationships with awesome wild animals.Given that living all by myself with no one but otters and the occasional friendly wolf for company is a dream come true for me, I think the only reason I didn't cotton more to this book as a child is that Karana has very little personality.
There's a reason it's a modern classic, so do pick it up if you haven't already read it.
In the novel "Island of the Blue Dolphins", the main character is Karana.
She is the daughter of the chief of the tribe that lives on the island, "Island of the Blue Dolphins".
During this novel, the tribe is visited by foreigners who wish to hunt the otter who live on the island in trade for weapons and gold.
The foreigners hunt for a long time and kill nearly all of the otter on the island.
While the tribe was leaving, Karana and her brother were left behind.
Island of the Blue Dolphins is an exciting tale about life alone on an island.
This book has won a Newbery Award and is just fun to read.
Karana got left behind with her brother.
This book teaches a great lesson, and is easy to read.
Island of the Blue Dolphins has great details.
Scott O'dell "hit the nail on the head with this book!
I recommend this book to all.After Karana and her brother got left behind something happened!
Karana Survived on her own by making weapons.
Read Island of the Blue Dolphins to find out more!-ReaderX
I enjoyed the story very much.
I am pretty sure I must have read it in school when I was much younger, but did not remember the story at all.
The dog's name, Rontu, did seem familiar.
I suspect that one of my daughters read it in grade school.
The story is based on a real person and there was documentation about the time that she lived there all alone, until she was taken to the Mission at Santa Barbara, in California.
Mr. O'Dell told a very compelling story of a strong young Indian woman and her animal friends.
