https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10585.Insomnia
"Insomnia" begins as Ralph Roberts, a pleasant, not-too-cantankerous gentleman in his 70s, watches his beloved wife taken from him by cancer.
Shortly after her death, he begins to experience "early waking" insomnia.
One man, however, Edward Deepneau, plans to do much more than protest.It falls to Ralph and his companion, to stop Ed at all costs, resulting in a battle that takes place both in this world, and the world of the auras.As is typical of King, the character development is second to none.
King takes his time in developing the story...nothing is rushed.
And going.And going.A vague mention of the actual Dark Tower here, dropping in “ka” and “ka-tet” to make it part of Ralph and Lois’s lexicon there, that King Crimson fella, and finally a couple of mentions of Roland at the end.Whew!
Did I just read a 663 page backstory for a character that King inserts into the final Dark Tower book?Yes, Jeff.
That epilogue almost brought man-tears to my eyes.It gets two stars from me for that, the fact that I genuinely liked Ralph, the main character (he was forspecial), and an extra star for me, Jeff, for spending the last two months whizzing (heh) through this book and finally finishing it.Go me.
At times I wanted to tear my hair out and scream “OMG JUST END ALREADY” – which I expressed countless times on Instagram – and then at other points, I was legit fangirling over the Dark Tower connections and Derry references.
But during these lulls where not much seems to happen, or the story moves at a snail’s pace, King throws in a Tolkien reference or some kind of Dark Tower connection and all of a sudden I’m LOVING the book again.
Ralph is one of those typical “everyman” characters that King loves to include in his works.
This book is not for everyone.
For one its over 700 pages long.
Another reason is that it deals with what some people say is uncomfortable topics:abortion, mental illness, domestic abuse and the afterlife and possible alternate worlds.Another reason why this book is unique and different from other books is that the hero is a regular joe who happens to be in his 70's!
I loved this book.
It took my mind to a place where few books can take me.
I was not here reading the book-I was in Derry, Maine with Ralph and Lois and Bill.
This setting of a number of Stephen King’s novels is again center stage in this 1994 book about not sleeping and going crazy because of it.I was drawn to this title as I have struggled off and on with insomnia most of my life.
Fans of Stephen King will be accustomed to his fantastic forays into the extraordinary and this fits into that genre, and there were more than passing references to his The Dark Tower series.
In fact, there is a paragraph toward the end of the book that says: “Worlds which had trembled in their orbits now steadied, and in one of those worlds, in a desert that was the apotheosis of all deserts, a man named Roland turned over in his bedroll and slept easily once again beneath the alien constellations.” Imagine, if you will, that you’ve never read a Dark Tower novel (or, shit, maybe you haven’t) and you just happened to pick up Insomnia because your buddy said, “Yo, kid, peep this thick-ass book.

A reread on the journey to the Dark Tower...I read this a few years back and gave it a one star rating, I feel I may have been a bit harsh.
This book has a lot going for it and is quite important in the Stephen King universe.
A unique concept with sprinklings of the Dark Tower throughout.
It was a bit lengthy though and there are huge parts of this book where it drags along, which is ultimately why it receives three stars, and not four.
Not as strong as King's other books, but still worth a read
I HATED it. Extremely long-winded and convoluted. Horrible, absolutely horrible. Probably his most pointless story ever.This is when I knew Stephen King had lost his awesome writing powers and I can't really bring myself to read him again. Bad enough I had to suffer through Black House, and then this. He really should have quit while he ahead and still an icon in the writing world. As for me, I'd rather slit my own wrists than suffer through another one of his awful novels ever again.
I saw somewhere that Insomnia is considered by some to be one of King's "problem" books.
About a third of the way in, a warning sign came when Roberts starts looking for a pair of binoculars in the hall closet.
King clearly wants to ratchet things up in a Rear Window kind of way, but the result is instead a two page passage of over description that stands as a prime of example of King's writerly sins (in fairness, two pages is not that bad with King, I've read much worse).

At times I couldn’t even hear Wallach’s voice, so in the end I gave up.***Ebook:When I read Insomnia the first time, many years ago, I hated it.
I still hated it and had to push myself to keep reading.The beginning bored me senseless, I didn’t feel a connection to any of the characters, and although the story was set in Derry it didn’t *feel* like Derry.
Shame on me!Yes, it’s slow to start, and yes, it’s somewhat long-winded, but by the time I reached the end I didn’t want to leave.
You either love it or hate it. I'm obviously of the earlier persuasion.  Review soonish. Maybe. 5 ninja bunnehs with balloon strings
Group read with The Dark Tower Honk MahFahs.
Okay.The most interesting thing about rereading Stephen King's works in chronological order is seeing how my opinions of them change in comparison to how I felt years ago.
Yeah, the concept itself is one of King's coolest — Ralph Roberts, elderly Derry resident, begins to see strange auras and Little Bald Doctors after developing insomnia in the months following his wife's death — but I feel it's really bungled.
Like, it feels as though the reader is really supposed to care about this issue, but King writes it so ho-hum.
“It's a long way back to Eden, Sweetheart, so don't sweat the small stuff.”This book does a weird thing books generally don't do - it starts well but keeps getting progressively worse as the length keeps unmercifully chugging away.
That wouldn't be bad, but when each scene keeps dragging on and on with the auras, the strange men, the conversations with them, then it loses its magic and shock effect quickly.There's a few nods to the Dark Tower series - "The Crimson King" is the major one, although there is a quote or so like Ralph mentioning a tower, and a little girl with this quote: “Him's name is Roland, Mama.
2.5 stars This was definitely a weird one. RTC, after all or most or at least a few of my buddies finish up. Or will they all DNF it? Only time will tell.
Formerly a neighbor of Ralph's, Deepneau has been acting strangely for a while now.
At the heart of it all lies the Crimson King (whose name will be familiar if you have read the Dark Tower series), who is simply using Ed as a pawn to get rid of a four-year-old boy named Patrick Danville.
It is Ralph who is called upon to stop this from happening.As with many of King's novels, the weakness here is in the ending.
*think happy thoughts*Insomnia was a buddy read with my hostages lttle band of misfits that are reading the Dark Tower together.
Either way, I enjoyed Insomnia.Ralph can’t sleep.
Maybe his buddy is just having a rough day.Ralph’s wife dies and he continues to struggle sleeping.
Ralph and Lois swap stories and find out that they are a part of something big.The whole book centers around an upcoming event.
He keeps talking about the Crimson King.
Ralph and Lois soon find out that, whether they like it or not, they need to play a part in this upcoming event.
This isn't my first time reading Insomnia, I think it may be my third or fourth time actually.
I gained a whole new love for this book on this read-through and I'm still stunned by all the Dark Tower references that I missed the other times I read this book!
I will admit that Insomnia is a bit slow at times and I did feel there was points were it dragged on a bit needlessly.
I think my favourite part of this read-through though would have to be noticing all the Dark Tower references throughout.
It's actually quite mind blowing how intertwined this story is with the Dark Tower series!
I have now read this one three times, and I still love it. It certainly is overlong, but that is one of the reasons I enjoy it so. King's imagination was on fire, maybe more so than at any other time. I really dug all the literary references, and the completely insane hallucinatory adventures Ralph Roberts has. Oh, and the way it ties in to the Dark Tower saga is a highlight as well.
Review to come...
I was quite surprised by the older protagonists, although of course there are things which compensate for their age.
It was interesting how he kept the photo with him until the very end.I loved a lot of the imagery that ran throughout this -- the auras, the "deathwatch", the "balloon strings".
I love references to mythology.
And the trade Ralph makes to save Nat breaks my heart a little, and is a lovely way to end things.It's also interesting to see all the links between this and other Stephen King books.
Thouroughly enjoyable read BUT, as is sometimes the case with a King book, a little too wordy and over long.
Would have flowed better if the first half of the book had been condensed by 300 pages or so.
The second half if the book is where the story truly shines.This book featured some new 'powers'.
These powers where used in interesting ways.
There was a bit of everything here, romance, action, horror and so on.Now to the GREAT parts of the book.
Insomnia in my opinion isn't as good as some of King's books, but it's still a really great story that joins into the frequent setting of the fictional small town of Derry, Maine, often present in King's works as the mysterious place where oddities and evil happens. In this particular one, it features an ordinary an whose lack of sleep allows him to see the monsters affecting everyone in town.
Gift from Thomas Strömquist. :)
Having read some reviews from other Goodreads buddies, I knew going in this would have some Dark Tower references.
This book in all fairness to it's readers, should be labeled Dark Tower #0.
And frankly, I can't be certain whether it's better if you read this BEFORE you read the Dark Tower books or after.
Anyway, the point is this is very much so a part of the whole Dark Tower story and readers should know that going in.
A little lengthy (definitely could've been trimmed down) and I couldn't recommend this to someone who has never read a Stephen King simply due to all the connections to other books.
Wow...just...Well, first of all- SO many literary comparisons of various existing (IRL, kiddies) works are made in the dialogue between the main characters of this novel, especially near the conclusion; this is awesome + something I had not noticed the 1st time I read this one by King (although, I was probably like, 12 when I read this book for the first time, now that I think about it)....This was at least my 3rd time re-reading this book, and another thing that will strike Constant Readers like myself is just HOW MANY references there are to King's DARK TOWER series!
(Although, I had not yet read the Dark Tower series the first time I found Insomnia.) This is now way up on the list of my favorite books of King's...and THAT is saying a LOT.
The last hundred pages held all the action and the first 500 or so is filled with:andand a little bit 'oI have to give it to King, really.
To keep me reading, that many pages, for so long.....*sigh*I have not read any of the Dark Tower series so I can honestly say that you can read this as a stand alone.Believe me.
This book stands on its own.Just keep it away from the kitties and no one will get hurt.Sorry for the lackluster review.
But seriously, this is King how much help could he possibly need from reviews?
I need a nap.
At the point where Ralph and his sidekick Lois Chasse team up to work out who the little bald men are and what their relationship was to the auras, I did feel a little bit like it was "Mystery Machine - The Later Years" but it was all in good fun.
I also felt the book got a little bit flabby in the third act but this is a minor point as I did really enjoy hanging out with these characters.All in all I really enjoyed my trip back to Derry after what seemed like a long time away and look forward to heading back soon.
