https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11998799-the-wine-of-solitude
Spoilers Below:A young girl grows up in a Jewish family in Kiev before the Russian Revolution.
She’s an only child in a household that includes a grandmother and grandfather, cook, maids and the nanny.Her father is loving but distant and consumed by business.
She parodies their table talk something like this: “…petrol; millions; buy, buy; millions; pipelines, millions, sell, sell; ships, millions….” When the conversation touches on the Russian Revolution and rumors of war, the talk turns to how to profit from the war and includes talk of bribery of officials.While her father is obsessed by business, her mother takes a young lover who is a constant fixture in the house.
Di Irène, per Irène.Ricordo ancora quando nel 2006 cominciai a notare "Suite francese" nelle libreri
Servido em copos cristalinos,em que apetece pegar,mas,no fim, não consigo deixar de sentir que merecia uns maiorzinhos. Como bom vinho que é,merece ser partilhado. E este,está ao dispor de amigos.
She loved studying and books, the way other people love wine for its power to make you forget. What else did she have? She lived in a deserted, silent house. The sound of her own footsteps in the empty rooms, the silence of the cold streets beyond the closed windows, the rain and the snow, the early darkness, the green lamp beside her that burned throughout the long evenings and which she watched for hours on end until its light began to waver before her weary eyes: this was the setting for her
Spoilers ahead.The Wine of Solitude begins in the lead-up to WWI with eight-year-old Hélène Karol living in a shabby chic Kiev apartment with her beautiful and distant mother, her hardworking father (the “little Jew” who is expected to improve the extended family's fortunes), Hélène's dependent maternal grandparents, and her beloved governess, the only one who can reliably show affection to the little girl, Mademoiselle Rose.
Partly autobiographical story of a Ukrainian girl – Helene – growing up in a French speaking family who lives with a rich, loving but distant father and a frustrated disinterested mother (and her lover) and a beloved governess.
Very much a story of a young girl, consciously growing up old beyond her years and struggling against her realisation that she has inherited the cynicism, hatred and manipulative nature of her parents (deliberately starting an affair with her mother’s lover so as to punish her).
Avete presente la seconda parte del incipit di Anna Karenina?Ogni famiglia infelice è infelice a modo suo...Irène Nèmirovsky alias Hèlène Karol questo lo sa molto bene...Anche se crede che le famiglie infelici siano uguali esattamente come le infelici.Ma la nostra Hèlène (esattamente come Irène) è una combattente. E se è vero che "da un' infanzia infelice non si guarisce mai".Tuttavia ci si può sempre vendicare di chi ce l ha resa tale in questo caso Bella (no no tranquilli Twilight non centra).E scegliere l' amaro calice della solitudine e una corazza di ferro per difendersi dal mondo...
There are echoes of Anna Karenina throughout the text, with allusions to its opening lines of "vengeance is mine; I will repay" and "all happy families are alike; each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way." What is highly interesting about The Wine of Solitude is the fact that it's the most autobiographical of Némirovsky's works.
Hélène experiences much sorrow, anger, and hurt, but she also finds happiness in les petits bonheurs de la vie such as reading, swimming in the sea, and being in nature.
These little moments throughout the book make it shine."But she loved studying and books, the way other people love wine for its power to make you forget.
Esta autora es de las que no defrauda, ya llevo unos cuantos libros suyos y escribe de forma magistral. Sin embargo, este, aunque la historia es tremenda por ver el abandono que sufre la pequeña Elena, es de los que menos me ha atraído. Pero eso no quita que sea una muy buena historia y recomendable.
She knows being Russian, living in France, mother-daughter troubles, the 2 Wars & the Russian Revolution.
This short coming to age story is about the Karol family living in Ukraine and barely having enough to make ends meet.
This story starts before World War 1 & goes through the Russian Revolution and takes you into 1920's.Irene's characters are so realistic in having failings but also good qualities.
3.5 Said to be her most autobiographical novel, the reader first meets Helene when she is only seven.
The daughter of a narcissistic and extremely self involved mother and a father she loves but is himself addicted to gambling.
He loves his wife to the point of self delusion.
We follow Helene as she ages, learns to hate her mother, the only love in her life is from her governess Madame Rose.
At last it is a novel about self realization and learning if not to forget at least to forgive.
Love the title of this novel and loved the very atmospheric writing.

Il vino della solitudine è un calice amaro, malinconico, triste, difficile da bere per la Némirovsky.Un calice che ha il gusto della solitudine, della mancanza di amore di cui Helene soffre. Un gusto, un sapore che invade tutta la famiglia, un sapore difficile da digerire, ma che lascia alla fine qualcosa di "aspro e inebriante", il cosiddetto sapore della libertà che illumina la via e il cammino.
"...Att inte vara barn när det var tid för det gör att man aldrig tycks mogna som andra;man är övermogen på en sida och grön på den andra, likt en frukt som alltför tidigt utsätts för kyla och vind..."
Un libro crudele e bellissimo, tagliente da togliere il fiato.
The Wine of Solitude opens with the character of eight-year-old Hélène Karol, an only child who lives with her parents, grandmother and governess in a tiny town in the Ukraine: a ‘sleepy provincial town, lost deep within Russia’.
The human psyche has been portrayed incredibly well and so poignantly by both author and translator, and we follow Hélène’s formative years to several different countries as she falls in and out of love and loses her innocence.First published in 1935, The Wine of Solitude feels wonderfully contemporary.
Helene her counterpart in The Wine of Solitude is a fascinating character and very apart from those around her."She looked at the people around her.
As the novel unfolds and the family moves from the Ukraine to Paris Helene gradually becomes more aware of herself and those around her.
I'm still haunted by some of the locations in the novel particularly the cottage in the woods where the Karols live during the First World War and the Russian revolution.
This the second book written by Irene Nemirovsky that I have read.
Autobiographical in nature, I found the story Nemirovsky's early life fascinating in many ways.
At times, I wondered how a child raised in such an atmosphere could ever emerge to become an author of such renown as Nemirovsky did.
I also found her characterizations of her mother, father, grandparents, and other figures in the book interesting.
I think I may read at least one more of her works so that I have a better understanding of her, her times, and her writing.
I think this book should've been called The Wine of Loneliness Which Leads to a Drunken Need for Revenge.Catchy, non?This might be my favourite Némirovsky reading experience.
Which is sad, regarding what happens, but also makes me think she was writing with a sense of nostalgia.
She is, I suppose, the only character one could care about, besides poor Mademoiselle Rose.Hélène was a paradox of dispassion and passion.
(Ha. Speaking of paradoxes...) I did find her plan for revenge stupid, but she realized that eventually herself.
the ending was perfect.Till the (perhaps nonexistent) day we get our half star ratings, I shall say it here: 3.5 stars.
D'un ton plus noir et amer que ces autres romans, Le vin de solitude de Némirovsky s'attache à l'histoire d'une famille juive, vivant en Russie, où la pauvreté et les pogroms, marquent son quotidien.
Elle se met à peindre et sa route finit enfin par croiser celle d'Harry, même si c'est pour l'abandonner rapidement.Le récit est peut-être moins bien amené que dans les feux d'automne, mais on sent vraiment la noirceur, l'expatriation, l'errance de cette famille, les espoirs déçus.
Le récit est poignant, bien écrit et le caractère de l'héroïne bien trempé.
A depressing but very good book about a girl growing into woman-hood in Ukraine, Finland, and then Paris under an abusively neglectful mother and rich but gambling-addicted father.
I like this author, previously read her posthumously released Suite Francais.
How tragic that this brilliant writer with so much to say about life died at the hand of the Nazis.
One interesting thing about The Wine of Solitude is how, throughout, the weather replicates Helene's moods and life events.
When the sun shines brightly on a clear day, Helene is about to have a moment of extreme clarity in her thinking.
Hay algo que tiene esta autora que traspasa las hojas y trastoca los sentidos.
Muy pocos autores logran ese embrujo entre lector, el escritor y la obra.
Solo por esa escena, casi cinematográfica, vale la pena leer esta obra.
En esta obra magistral, Nemirovsky se adentra en la psiquis de una niña que crece bajo la tiranía, el desprecio y la indiferencia de su madre.
La relación con su padre y con su institutriz también resulta conmovedora y recuerda a esa niñez que todos llevamos que se ha ido despedazando a base de pequeñas decepciones.
Justamente, de las decepciones de una niña trata esta novela.
Io sono giovane, ho 16 anni, e te lo prenderò, il tuo amichetto, e non ci metterò molto, ahimè, non sarà difficile, e quando ti avrò fatta soffrire come si deve, lo manderò a quel paese perché, per me, lui sarà sempre l'odiato Max della mia infanzia" "Con l'implacabile durezza della gioventù, allontanava da sé i ricordi luttuosi, nutrendosi solo della consapevolezza della propria forza, della propria età, del proprio inebriante potere.
Hélène era gelosissima della propria vita interiore; la nascondeva ferocemente a tutti gli sguardi, anche a quello della persona che amava di più al mondo." Quando si accorge di non essere molto diversa dai genitori (La pietà che colmava il cuore di Hélène, tuttavia, non l'addolciva; la sopportava con rabbia, come un fardello.
Autobiographical in nature, it is very much a portrait of the artist as a young woman.The Karol family (Boris, Bella and their daughter Helene) moves from Kiev to St. Petersburg to Finland to Paris as the events of World War I and the Russian Revolution unfold and force the family to flee.
She sees Helene as a nuisance and inconvenience: “A child, a living reproach, an embarrassment” (30).It is the portrayal of Bella that I found most interesting.
Bella’s lover even admits, “’To Bella, relationships, simple human relationships, family ties, friendships, companionship, don’t exist’” (199).
The Wine of Solitude is the latest such book.
The Wine of Solitude tells the story of young Helene Karol and her transition from girlhood to the threshold of adulthood during the early part of the 20th century.
Helene is a member of a superficially close-knit family who, as the story opens, live together in the Ukraine.
The Wine of Solitude is undoubtedly an intelligent novel that is full of piercing insights into the rigours of family life.
oltre al gioco, naturalmente.La guerra: fuori, remota e lontana, lasciata da parte con un gesto vezzoso della mano; nelle strade cortei di dolore povertà e miseria, urla e preghiere per un tozzo di pane; dentro molte case speculazione ricchezza risate abbondanza, e tanta tanta noia..."A un certo grado di tragico orrore, lo spirito umano, saturo, reagisce con l’indifferenza e l’egoismo."Fuggire dalla Russia, passando per la Finlandia per approdare in Francia, a Parigi, l'adorata Parigi che ora il conflitto ha reso vuota e diversa...Come la vita di questi personaggi...Libro che in un'unica corrente mi ha ispirato sentimenti contrastanti: rabbia e pietà, insofferenza e ammirazione, indistintamente per tutti i protagonisti.
The book is about a girl growing up in a Russian jewish family that rises to riches before and during WWI and is forced to leave at the start of the Russian revolution in 1917.
The story has several layers to it: the description of the character of a tyrannical and adulterous mother, the solitude of the girl who grows up without friends, the young Russian bourgeois who receives a French education (she ends up knowing French better than Russian), the cruelty and decadence of family relations where money and vanity dominate, the incredible economic corruption and political violence of the time in Russia, the frenzy of the "roaring 20s" in Paris.
Quanto è difficile liberarsi dalle illusioni, dalle finzioni, dalle buone maniere e dalle apparenze?
Forse è difficile proprio perchè svelata la realtà resta soltanto la solitudine.
Particolare è il momento in cui la ancora piccola Hélène, seduta sempre in posizione perfettamente eretta, trova sul suo libro di testo una foto di una famiglia ideale, modello tedesco, e come lei riesca immediatamente a capire quanto tutto sia sbagliato e falso, che strati e strati di bugie non potranno mai nascondere la triste verità che lei riesce benissimo a capire...
Alla non più piccola Hélène, alla fine, resterà soltanto l'inebriante solitudine della libertà finalmente raggiunta.
i like everything Irene Nemirovsky writes.
not that Nemirovsky's writing isn't still great ...
i was hoping the story would provide a better picture of the impact both w.w. one and the revolution had on this family than it did.
this is a very personal -and in some ways reminiscent of Anna Karenina- story.
unhappy families are unhappy in their own unique way.The Wine of Solitude is the personal observation of the family's unhappiness through the eyes of the young narrator.
from the very start i am rooting for her to escape her family's unique way of being unhappy.
"...non essere stata una bambina quando era il momento di esserlo forse fa sì che non si possa mai maturare come gli altri; si è appassiti da un lato e ancora acerbi dall'altro, come un frutto esposto troppo presto al freddo e al vento..."Hélène è vittima di una madre che non la ama, che non si occupa di lei.
Ha a cuore soltanto se stessa e il suo giovane amante.Hélène è vittima di un padre leggero, morbosamente attratto dal gioco, innamorato della moglie al punto di non voler vedere né sapere.Solo Madamoiselle Rose, la sua governante, le dà il calore che la famiglia le nega.
Cresce, Hélène, si fa fanciulla e poi giovane donna.
E con lei cresce l'odio e la voglia di vendetta...Chissà quante Irene/Hélène ci sono.
