https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57585.In_the_Spirit_of_Crazy_Horse
This book really affected me.
Mattiessen really did his research for this book.
It's a detailed account of the incident at Wounded Knee in the 70's, AIM (American Indian Movement) and the trials that followed thereafter.
Thankfully, the FBI lost in it's attempt to prevent this book from being published.
It's an important book and we have the right to learn about the attrocities committed against the Native Americans.
I feel strongly that this should be required reading in high school.
This is not an easy read, but will definitely keep you interested.
I also recommend watching the documentary "Incident at Oglala: The Leonard Pelteir Story".
Often the FBI in South Dakota was working, if not hand in hand, at least on parallel tracks in this thuggery with folks such as a corrupt Pine Ridge Indian Reservation leadership, then-Attorney General and now disgraced former Congressman Bill Janklow, BIA cops and more.While Matthiesen looks at bits and pieces of AIM's history elsewhere, he focuses on Pine Ridge and its Sioux, as this area, through things such as a temporary takeover of Mount Rushmore, was a center of AIM activity.In trials related to the events in and around Pine Ridge, FBI agents repeatedly intimidated witnesses into changing testimony, coached witnesses, sprung last-minute surprise witnesses at trials (which is against the law, if you didn't know), suborned perjury and otherwise made a mockery of justice.Things reached a climax June 26, 1975 when two FBI agents approached the Jumping Bull property on the Pine Ridge Reservation, ostensibly looking for Jimmy Eagle on a weapons charge.
Elegant, passionate investigative muckraking in the grand style: messy, gnarly, informative, memorable and anger-inducing.
This is a sweeping, detailed novelistic tour de force that raises more questions than it answers and sometimes has you questioning the author's veracity while at the same time having you shaking your head in agreement over his findings and conclusions.
In investigating the state's case against Leonard Peltier and his cohorts, Matthiessen presents a disgraceful historical litany of the underlying causes of American Indian anger.
This book ends on an enigmatic and somewhat unsatisfactory note, but in getting there is a mind-massaging and unforgettable journey, and should be required reading for all Americans.(KevinR@KY, read in 2008; reviewed retrospectively in 2016)
This saga of the conflict between the U.S. government and Native Americans picks up where Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee leaves off, and makes the critical point that as excellent as that earlier book is, contemporary readers might get a false sense of complacency from it, that we live in a more enlightened age and the struggles exist in the past.
This book, which focuses mainly on the events surrounding the shootout on the Pine Ridge reservation in 1975 and the story of Leonard Peltier, serves as a strong corrective to that.
After 16 years in prison, Leonard Peltier's case received increased media attention, and the book ends with optimistic visions of a long struggle finally coming to an end.
However, the book's coverage ends in 1991.
The story really gains traction with the events in the summer of 1975 surrounding the tragic shooout between FBI agents and Leonard Peltier and his associates.
The author, Peter Matthiessen, was certainly sympathetic to the members of the American Indian Movement.
Regarding the latter there is an FBI agent, the one who later sues the author, who describes why law enforcement uses overwhelming force in dealing with these movements, even though this is almost certainly going to lead to violence.
The story evokes sympathy for people who live on a reservation with murder rates far exceeding the worst American cities.
I read this book in 1992 as part of a graduate American Indian Law seminar conducted at the University of Colorado Denver (UCD) with Dr. Glenn Morris - the head of the Denver chapter of AIM as the instructor.
The book inspired me greatly and as a result I have had the good fortune to have worked with tribal governments since 1995 leading and conducting government-to-government consultations to the present day with hundreds of consultations completed.
I highly recommend the book and I believe whatever side of the argument you fall on you will find the book thoughtful and entertaining and perhaps even inspiring.
Detailed almost to the point of excrutiating, but overall excellent recitation of the events leading up to the killing of 2 FBI agents in Oglala, on the Pine Ridge Reservation.
Matthiesen's research is painstaking, and once I realized how the book was organized it made sense and I could follow it (he hides his explanation in the notes for each section).
I'm not sure I'm convinced of Peltier's "innocence" but I certainly believe that justice was miscarried in the desparate acts of the FBI and the office of the US Attorney, to get vengance for the killings.
33rd book read in 2017.Number 339 out of 598 on my all time book list.
I think this is a good book for everyone to better understand the background to the No DAPL movement.
The connection isn't made until much later in the book, but it's eventually suggested that the attempts by the FBI to disrupt AIM and liken them to communists was driven by land grabs for resources, especially related to power production.
It also ties into a lot of he work being done right now to show the abuses by police and courts against innocent suspects that was made popular by Serial.
I found the background to the book being suppressed by court cases fascinating as well.
This is an important book, and I'm impressed with the amount of research and time Matthiessen put into it, and I think the story needed to be told.
At one point he actually argued that the fact that the murder of an Indian on an Indian reservation was even investigated was proof of conspiracy against Indians.
And if that's not enough for you, he spends many other parts of the book arguing that failure to investigate murders of Indians is proof of governmental indifference to the plight of Indians on reservations.Look, Matthiessen, I appreciate your hard work, and I overwhelmingly agree with you, both in perspective and conclusions.
As with any complicated, partisan event, each perspective offers only one piece of the patchwork.
And this is an important one, even if some of the information that's emerged since its publication challenges some of aspects of Peltier's defenders' arguments.Nonetheless, the book is commendable for its examination of the renewed wars against Native Americans as the coal, oil and uranium under their lands became increasingly important to industry interests.
And although it's hard to judge the extent to which he was impartially critical of the evidence of government wrongdoing in the case -- what he pulls together is pretty staggering, a good civics reminder.As a journalist, I would have preferred he erred more on the side of explictly sourcing more of his material.
This is a lengthly and sobering account of the American Indian Movement in the 60's and 70's, and the continuing conflict between Native Americans and the U.S. Government.
There are references to broken treaties between our government and Indian tribes, racism, and the poor conditions on Indian Reservations.
The main element of the book concerns Leonard Pelteir, convicted of murdering two FBI agents on a reservation during a shoot-out between Native Americans and the FBI.
Matthiessen was clearly sympathetic to the Indian cause, but it's not hard to understand why.
This book recounts an almost unbelievable tale of corruption and serves as a good reminder of just how ineffective and horrifying the justice system becomes in the hands of people with political agendas.
There is simply no sound justification for these things in a free society.The book is massive, and it needs to be in order to unravel the layers and layers of this story and the surrounding circumstances.
It was an important book to read, and I enjoyed it in the way I enjoy a lot of textbooks.
Still, as a work that examines power, corruption, and the silencing of a political group, it seems a very important one to read.
If you want to learn about what the FBI did to the American Indian Movement in the 1960s and 1970s with COINTELPRO and you want to learn about the events that led to the wrongful imprisonment of Leonard Peltier, then read this book. We didn't stop oppressing and killing Indians in the 1800s...
Nonfiction. Two words... Leonard Peltier. Two more words... Oglala Shoot-out. Two more words... FBI tampering. Enough said.
They found Dino Butler, Bob Robideau and Leonard Peltier and started shooting at them.
The two agents were awaiting back up but ofcourse more indians came and started firing back.
Eventually the two agents got killed.
Since the FBI couldn't prove anything they fabricated evidence.
Frustrated, the FBI let go of Jimmy Eagle and focused on Peltier.
Judge Benson was also very prejudiced and denied many witnesses that could help Peltier.
The book proves how much prejudice, racisme and hate there still is among the elite, the court and the FBI in the US.
The book got sued many times but survived each trial.
You will come to see the divisions among native peoples (the skins and the half-breeds), and how greed and corruption are universal.
That's not to say MAtthiessen writes to bring down native peoples.
The Skins, while somehow portrayed as more "noble," are also caught out of time, unable to navigate government bureaucracy, and wanting to go back to the land, actual conditions notwithstanding.This is a (true, minus the biased language referring to agents as "pigs," etc) tale of extreme violence, violence, theft and rape with impunity.
I'm about 150 pages in and it is getting laborious.Published in 1980, Spirit of Crazyhorse has that same tone of righteous indignation as Zinn's People's History published around the same time.
But Mathiessen doesn't/didn't know how to or didn't want to skim over any details, which makes for an indignant rambling of fact and name after fact and name that lacks narrative cohesion.
This book simply doesn't read well in the 21st century unless you are looking for something very specific about the AIM or are just fishing for more reasons to distrust American government.
I admire the extensive research that went into this book, but the writing itself isn't good to me.
The story is told as a drawn-out series of accounts of the famous shoot-out at the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota in 1975, but also concerning many other related events and combined with extracts of court transcripts and of the author’s interviews.
An account related to the author from an unnamed and disguised Indian "X" confessing to the murders given near the end of the book didn't seem to be a more reliable account than any other.========================================I have had some interest in lying in the past, and I noticed that many of the stories told on both sides are of a type commonly used when lying (see the current liar-in-chief or, especially, Mr. Putin).
The shootout on the 26th of June 1975 in Oglala, Pine Ridge Reservation was part of the bullying and harassment of the FBI and BIA against the Lakota there.Some Lakota acted as agents for the government, but they abused their power and made life hell for those on the reservationThis book is a very good read on the 20th history of the Plains Tribes.
One of those books you have to read.
Peter Matthiessen's book 'In the Spirit of Crazy Horse' concerns the conviction of Leonard Peltier for the murder of 2 FBI agents.
Although aware of the issues faced by Native American indians, I was completely taken aback by the sheer level of injustice and corruption involved in sending this man to jail.
I was even more shocked to find he was still in prison.
Read the book - it's well researched, balanced and very detailed - and make up your own mind.
I don't think anyone could read this and not want to do something.
An Unsubstantiated FantasyLeonard Peltier is a common criminal, and not a hero who fought in the spirit of Crazy Horse.
Crazy Horse was a great man who fought entirely for his people.
Peltier condones the killing of defenseless combatants.
Yet if the shoe was on the other foot, and the combat were from his nation, im sure he would think it wrong.
That's not living by the code of the warrior.Anyone who participated or condones it is a coward.
I assure you Crazy Horse was not.
This book although full of facts of government misconduct is a disappointment.
This book is incredibly detailed. Most incidents between the FBI and AIM are related from several viewpoints. The author is careful to distinguish between those witnesses that are reliable versus those that may be lying. The overwhelming conclusion of this book is that the federal Indian department and the FBI conspired to destroy AIM and didn't care if they broke the law. They treated AIM as if it were the Mafia. Very unsettling!
The author's message gets lost by going into too many extraneous events. It's confusing to try and keep the trail of names straight. It seems to me that a lot of people contributed to this gross miscarriage of justice. It's nauseating that up to this day, it still hasn't been corrected.
A compelling and passionate plea on how Leonard Peltier was railroaded by the injustice system that always seems to be working to undermine Indian sovereignty. Sadly not only is Leonard still incarcerated, but this book continues to be as relevant and important to read as it was upon publication.
An important book with an important post-publication history. Copies of this book were suppressed by the FBI and others in US government. Read Banned Books!
Well researched, well written, and very informative. Excellent read.
An exceptional account of the plight of Leonard Peltier and A.I.M.
threw it across the room in anger
Wow. I had no idea this happened. I'm so disgusted with all the lies, coverups, and hate. This is a very long book at 600+ pages but it was so worth it.
