https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/530848.Eighth_Grade_Bites
I'm sure Heather Brewer thought she was pretty damn clever when she named her main vampire character Vladimir (as in "The Impaler"); or when she named another (pretty much non-existent) character Edgar Poe; or when she named the big, scary, dressed-all-in-black, bad guy D'Ablo.
For the majority of the book, I felt like I was dragging the protagonist forward with every page turn instead of being led into a puzzling wonder.
I mean, the plot formula was pulled straight out of Harry Potter; the names she used for characters and places sound like a bad joke; and she literally calls her antagonist a cliche in the book.
This has got to be the best out of the whole series, I remember buying and reading these at the start of year 8, I loved them then, sped through all the books and bought and read the last one the day it came out.
Unlike a lot of vampires I've read about.
6)It was generally a good book.
7)Henry and Vlad were not pms-ing all the time.Yeah, that’s all I can think of at the moment, but I’m sure the list goes on.
Even if you only read the first in the series.Yep, it kept me awake...
Like most 8th graders, he is trying to negotiate the trials and tribulations of middle school, including a pair of bullies, an unrequited crush, teachers and homework, and oh yeah, the fact that he is a vampire.
Vlad has a million questions after he discovers a journal of his father’s and the mysterious substitute teacher begins asking too many of his own questions.
Vlad gets some resolution to his questions and these mysteries, but not entirely setting the stage for the next book.
That’s the story of my life with books.The writing style is simple and humorous, which should be enjoyable for the middle school age.
I would have liked a bit more complication, but again it’s middle school age, so that’s more forgivable under that circumstance.Vlad is a hybrid who goes to school like any other normal child, but he soon finds out that he is being unfairly judged by a vampire council I wanted to strangle.
The series may develop more – I have a few other books to read in it – and I’ll continue to see if the plotline improves a bit as he gets older.
A quick read, but a surprisingly good one, even for an adult.
Typical of a kid's book, the plot is a bit simplistic, but it was a good story with believable characters.
They're not as simple as in most books of this type & even the bad guys have redeeming qualities, while the good guys have their faults.
True to life, there were busy, exciting times followed by others that were typical.
It felt like it, at times.Vampire books are all the rage now & I've read so many that I didn't think this series would interest me too much, but I found that it does.
It's unfortunate that this enticing book cover and concept (an 8th grade vampire) were wasted in this way.
The first 120 pages, however, were like having to read an 8th grade student's first draft of a "book".
Imagine an 8th grade boy inserting capsuls full of blood into his peanut butter sandwich and eating this in the lunchroom, or sipping "tea" at night which is really just nuked blood in a mug.
Really, it's like when a 7th grader hands you 50 hand-written pages and says "Will you read my book?" I'm not going to pick it apart.
I'm a complete sucker for vampire stories and "Eighth Grade Bites" did not disappoint me.
The story is about a boy named Vladimir Tod an eighth grader with a deep dark secret -- he's a vampire.
As far as Vlad is concerned, he's the only vampire in the world, aside from his now deceased father.
Suddenly a whole new world is evident to Vlad, and he's not sure its one he'll be able to survive in.The story is an excellent one, meant for a young adult audience.
But in order to fully understand what’s happening to him in the present, Vlad has to drag up painful memories of the past and learn vital information about a vampire world he never knew existed before.Eighth Grade Bites is a hilarious debut to an intriguing sounding vampire series that successfully combines supernatural dangers with the trials of being a teen.
I really enjoyed reading alternately about Vlad’s vampire mischief or woes and his “human” crushes on girls and struggles with being bullied.
His parents died when he was ten, so he lives with his Aunt Nelly, a human who knows his secret.
His best friend Henry also knows, but Vlad hides his bloodthirsty ways from the general public.
It's bad enough that he gets picked on by two jerky guys in his grade and can barely work up the courage to say hi to the girl he's crushing on - just imagine if they also knew he was a vampire!
The best parts were the normal high school scenes, where Vlad tries to talk to the girl or stands up to his bullies.
A fun, fast, and fluffy read with lots of humor. I liked Vlad's voice, but the story was a little simplistic for my taste. Hoping to see more plot development in future novels!
Book ReviewBook Title: Eighth Grade Bites (Vladimir Todd #1)Book Author: Heather Brewer (now Zac Brewer)This is a throwback review, since I read this book way back when I was in grade eight (which feels like a lifetime ago).
This book was a great way to get me into reading, and I applaud Zac Brewer for all of his wonderful writing and work, because I wouldn't be here in my reading and writing career without him.Now onto my review:Eighth Grade Bites is a great spin on the typical fish out of water story.
I wanted so desperately to like this book - I work with books for a living and I'm always on the look out for good reads for younger teens, especially ones that appeal to boys.
However for anyone outside of it's target demographic this book is a hot mess - it's biggest flaw being how both characters and plot are woefully underdeveloped - after finishing this book I could tell you a host a facts about the people populating its pages and yet I couldn't tell you why they felt the way that they did or even how they came by such a decision.
5 Stars:A classic tale of coming of age with a supernatural bite that even the guys will secretly love.Among some of my favorites.
The characters are well developed, interesting.
Full Disclosure : I participate in reviews with NetGalley, Author Review Requests, Publisher Requests, and Book Tours.
An e-copy was provided to me by NetGalley and/or the Author, and/or the publishers.
There was not any obligation to write a positive review.
All opinions expressed here are entirely mine and may not necessarily agree with those of the author, the book's publisher and publicist, or the readers of this review.
This was a pretty good read... I'm really getting to like poor Vladimir Tod...Overall rating:4*~Pretty Good Read
The vampire genre has regained popularity, with Stephenie Meyer's Twilight saga and now Heather Brewer's The Chronicles of Vladimir Tod. Vlad is a middle schooler born to a vampire father and a human mother.
Vlad and his Aunt Nelly are in danger, and in order for Vlad to keep both of them safe, he's got to learn more about the vampire convenants his late father had broken.This book is original and engaging.
If you are looking for a fun, exciting story that middle schoolers will enjoy and relate to, then pick up a copy of The Chronicles of Vladimir Tod: Eighth Grade Bites!
Reviewed by Grandma Bev for TeensReadToo.comThirteen-year-old Vladimir Tod is being raised by "Aunt" Nelly, his mother's best friend.
Aunt Nelly understands his problems and helps him to hide the fact that he is a vampire and must have fresh blood to survive.
Vlad's best friend, Henry, is the only other person who knows his secret, although Vlad did bite Henry once when they were eight years old.
Things go from bad to worse when Aunt Nelly invites Otis to dinner and he confronts Vlad with what he knows.
All I have to say is two things:One: TCVT is better than Twilight!
:P)Two: I wishhhh the characters were REALLLLL~~ Wait, what am I talking about, in my world, I go out and kidnap my favorite characters from books and have them live with me!
This book was super awesome.
At first I was like, "yeah...teenage vampire...
Sounds pretty normal to me...", that kind of thing.
finish this book and read the rest of the series, dang-it!
Well, not the rest of the series, the part of the series thats out, 'cause Twelfth Grade Kills is not out yet...
It wasn't mind blowing-ly good or anything, it wasn't even brilliant or awesome, but when you think about all the crap that YA has been doing to vampire literature, you will read this book with constant sighs of relief, because this author did RESEARCH.
This author went on google, typed up vampire lore and traits, and fucking put those she liked in this book.
It makes sense.Twilight, you're doing it wrong.Vlad, even though he drank blood bags still had a lust after human blood, which we have seen before and which is what happens in vampires who do this.
The story is of a 13-year-old dhampir (a half-vampire, half-human) who is struggling with the everyday stresses that come with middle school: girls, sprouting fangs, hiding your blood fix in your peanut butter and jelly, etc.
In a world of “think of the children!”, Vladimir Tod admires the goth kids (though strangely enough, no-one throws the more natural “emo” label at him).
Brewer gives us a middle ground: healthy goth/alternative kids and vicious-yet-reasonable vampires.
I really hope Brewer finds her writing legs in the sequels, because today's alternative kids need a character who has the best and words of human and super nature.Reviewed by Kat Barron for Lit Fest Magazine
I read some not so kind reviews and I think people's expectations were too high.
If you're looking for an earth shattering read...skip this.
Vlad is adorable and super sweet...crushing on a girl, hanging with his BFF Henry (Romper Room Rambo) and just living life in a small town...oh and he just happens to be a vampire!
So since I L.O.V.E. VAMPIRES, you know I just had to read this.
This book actually surprised me in that it had a good little story going...some intensity, action and intrigue.
Mostly I just really enjoyed the relationship between Vlad and Henry.
Vladimir Todd half human half vampire, orphaned nearly three years ago, only two humans now his is secret; his best friend Henry and his guardian, Nelly.Vlad is disturbed by the disappearance of his teacher Mr. Craig, and something is defiantly a little strange about the new substitute teacher Mr. Otis.
I was a little apprehensive about my level of enjoyment, but I was completely enthralled in the story and not once did the characters age deter me away from my continues page turning!!
I mean being a vampire and all, Vlad is very mature for his age!
I really liked the sense of humor in this book and all of the references.
It served as a good introduction to Vlad's world, as well, but at points I thought it got a little too predictable concerning Mr. Otis despite all the twists and turns.
I was confused as to why the mark was given near the end regardless of the sense of community/family it offers because wasn't that what the father needed to get rid of if he didn't want to be found?
Anyway, I look forward to more plot development and cultural background as it relates to Elysia.
Personally, I don't think this book is that great. The story plot is average and the writing isn't that good. I borrowed the book because the cover looked cool; however, the book disappointed me and the cover didn't really match the story. The story needs to be more clear... I give this book a 2/5. I don't think I'll read the next book in the series.
The first book of a series that you can really sink your teeth into ;) and read quickly. I'm looking forward to learning more about the first ever born vampire Vlad.
It's been a long time since I've read a real-life, paper and ink book but since this series has been sitting on my bookshelf for years it's about time I read them.
3.75 🌟 Fast, simple and fun read. Very easy read for young readers, especially those delving into the world of vampires for the first time.
Vlad è una ragazzino giovane, fragile ma forte e ben deciso a non arrendersi, grazie anche al suo cervello.Un nuovo eroe, quindi, per i giovanissimi che non potranno non amarlo, per un lettore più adulto potrebbe risulta invece troppo semplice e un po’ scontato ma non dobbiamo mai dimenticare a “chi” è diretto il romanzo.
You see, my son's school requires him to read a book and complete a four page report on it every two weeks.
And Aunt Nelly's job as a nurse keeps Vlad stocked with bags of almost-expired blood, which every growing vampire needs.
Book 5 of the Chronicles of Vlad: Twelfth Grade Kills is in stores now.
If you like a well written vampire tale that slowly introduces a much bigger mythology through the eyes of a very sympathetic character, pick up The Chronicles of Vlad and join us in reading them.
Somehow, I know that Vlad, who likes doing English reports, would love to know that.
This review is by my brother, Gregory.8th Grade Bites (The Chronicles of Vladimir Tod) tells the story of...well...8th Grader Vladimir Tod. He has his typical junior high problems; getting picked on by bullies, pining over cute popular girls, making sure he's gotten enough blood to eat for lunch, and turning in that English assignment.Oh yeah!
Henry is the popular cool guy while Vlad is considered the weird emo nut, but Henry still hangs out and stands up for him even through the minefield that is Junior High.The story tends to drop little hints that are rather obvious and you will probably go, "That was the reveal?
It's such an awkward year and everyone's unsure of themselves, no one more so that Vlad Tod. He has reason to be, as a he's half-vampire.Vlad is such a great character, he's a very different vampire than I've read before.
Instead I could relate to his experiences a lot more, having been a teenager and gone through eighth grade myself.
I absolutely love the sweet relationship between Vlad and Nelly.
Very teenaged boy relationship, but I'm glad that Vlad has someone outside of family who knows his secret and is accepting of it.I love how OK with being a half-vampire Vlad is.
