https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68521.Excalibur
The Warlord Chronicles trilogy is hands down the best Arthurian saga I’ve ever had the chance to experience out of all medium."I have to confess that of all the books I have written, these three are my favourites.” – Bernard Cornwell2 months and 20 books after my last 5/5 stars (without rounding up) read, the end to that slump is finally here, for I have found a new addition to my favorite shelves in a genre I rarely ventured.
Cornwell has a new fan and this might be a sign for me to dive into more Historical Fiction in the future.Excalibur, the third and last book in the Warlord Chronicles trilogy is definitely the best entry out of the trilogy.
Number 3 and the last of the Arthur Sagas.Bernard Cornwell kept the bests for last.
Britain at this time was a land of many small kingdoms and these kingdoms have spent many generations killing each other.The land needed a hero and that hero was Arthur.
If Britain was to survive all the kingdoms have to come together as a whole and this was the task that Arthur gave himself.This was also a time when Druid paganism and Christianity were vying for supremacy.
Nobody constructs battle scenes better than Bernard Cornwell which is just as well as there are a number of horrific battles to be fought.There are characters here that will bring you to tears.
Per my review of WINTER KING, this is a different take on Arthur, focusing on the legend and the times.
In this part of the trilogy Arthur's plans to unite Britain begin to unravel.
Merlin is betrayed and former allies of Arthur turn on him or won't assist him as Mordred gathers power.
Follows the Arthurian legend in some places but in others it is very different.
Arthur has children from a previous marriage.
Mordred is club-footed.
Merlin doesn't get trapped in a tree.
Appreciators of an author who can blend History with legends will greatly appreciate this trilogy.
I read this series years ago, but started it again to study Cornwell, line-by-line. This book just gets so profoundly sad as you move deeper through it. There are so many things I would love to change about our history. This book makes me want to step back in time 15 centuries to stop Christianity from infecting the world, and to burn all of the Saxon ships before they sailed to Britain. Cornwell is truly a masterful writer. I aspire to his level of skill for my own life as a writer.
Book 1: 3*'sBook 2: 3.5*'sBook 3: 4*'s If you like the tales of Arthur this series is a must and each book gets better. It is probably the darkest and least romanticized version I've read. The endings for a lot of our characters of myth are much less glorious as well then other versions of the tale. This makes them no less compelling and even more so in the more realistic gloom of 6th century what would become England. It's somewhat amazing with all the hatred across kingdoms they ever did manage to unify.
Another great book by Bernard Cornwell!
A fun thing is that Cornwell really leaves it kind of ambiguous as to how much of the magic is "real".
This kind of thing will be utterly familiar to people that have read the Saxon Tales, but in this one it was a lot harder for me to just dismiss the pagan magic as interesting superstition.
I'm not sure why I just harped on the magic thing for so long.And the characters!
We certainly don't get into their heads and souls like we might with other characters in other books, but the way we see them was kind of novel for me.
Arturus Rex Quondam, Rexque FuturusArthur, our Once and Future KingWhat an amazing retelling of the legend, I think I'm a believer.
The book has a great ending, but I wasn't ready for the story to end.
I hate it when I get closer and closer to the end of a book and just know that not everything I want could fit into the remaining pages.
Its heartbreaking to keep reading then, but what a great series.
I am a huge fan of Bernard Cornwell.
Thats the 9th book of his I have read in less than two months.
How can I read anything else?!
“So now I shall write the tale’s ending with my sword beside me and I shall hope that I am given time to finish this tale of Arthur, my Lord, who was betrayed, reviled and, after his departure, missed like no other man was ever missed in all of Britain’s history.”Wow!
What a great book.
The ending is marvellous and keeps with the legend but yet raises the question of, “did he live?” This is not a book the reader will soon forget.
The author converged history with myth, bringing new life into the old tale with a fresh take upon Arthur.
Such a strong finish to a great trilogy. I loved the rehabilitation of Guinevere, and some of the battles were pretty epic. But at various points, time passed maybe a little too quickly for my liking, and while I'm not disappointed in how things played out, I was expecting this book to be a 5 star read. If I'm honest, it fell a little short for me.Still, a great read, and a fantastic trilogy! Highly recommended.
And great to see that Mai Dun (Maiden Castle – Iron Age fort 7 miles away) gets to perform on stage in this novel.
I could jus imagine the scene on the old hill fort – I’m long overdue a re-visit of the hill.4.25 Stars.....
for this one as it did slow in pace at times but all in all a very enjoyable series neatly wrapped up in a more than plausible style – A full 5 stars for the series from me.
The pacing seemed slower than the previous novels and not a great deal happened over the duration of this book with a somewhat disappointing ending.That being said, the characters are the usual high standard with a few pantomime style villains, the good guys who gleam and then the pagans and Christians feuding for land and people/worshippers.
The ending also seemed to be more like a candle flame dwindling out as supposed to a Big Bang style ending meaning the impact at the end dampened my feelings for this one too.Overall this was a disappointing ending to the trilogy but that is only because the previous two novels were of a much higher standard.
The baby king Mordred is now a grown man, stepping into his birthright as Arthur bows out, and horror ensues as Mordred's character unfolds.
But we all know the story of Arthur ends on a battlefield with his fight against Mordred, so why bother discussing it?
The characters are what carry this story along so compellingly.
Derfel, the lord of war and loyal friend who outshines even Arthur as a hero.
Guinevere, the ambitious adulteress who finally redeems herself on a blood-soaked battlefield.
There is even time for minor characters: Derfel's unexpected father, Arthur's loathesome bastard sons, the sad story of Arthur's friend Tristan and his doomed Iseult.
I think Martin put it best - ‘The best battle scenes of any writer I’ve ever read, past or present.’ A gripping tale of love, courage and betrayal. Highly recommended !
This tale of Arthur will challenge your ability to read any other Camelot story.
You do not win the fight of the shield wall by being sensible and moderate, but by a Godlike rush of howling madness.”What makes this book a 5-Star is the brilliant evocation of a turning point in history.
We all know the story of Arthur and Guinevere but this one brings these fabled characters to such a vivid, lifelike existence.
Arthur’s dream of a just and fair society comes briefly to life and then is challenged on all sides.
Okay now, 3 stars, it looks odd I know.
I rarely 3 stars Bernard Cornwell books.
This time however, I felt no connection to the book and I found it borderline uninspiring.
I don't know if this is because I read it right after book 2 in this series, Enemy of God, or whether the book actually was boring and there is no excuse, but there you have it.
A guilty 3 star rating.
Read many years ago and I couldn't recall any of it.
I think perhaps I was bored with it when I read it a decade ago too, hence the lack of memories.
But reading it so close to the other books, I noticed a lot of what seemed like inconsistency.
I really enjoyed the character and even the plot arc coming from "The Winter King" to "Enemy of God." I felt like everything was heading in a good narrative and stylistic direction.
But I felt like I left "Enemy of God" rushing on a strong path and then ended up quite lost in a maze (emotionally and in the relationship with the reader and between characters) through most of "Excalibur." Still, great story, and I'm glad I read it.
Treachery is again an integral part of the story, as Mordred now becomes an efficient soldier and leader of men, and moves to take what is his, while the mad wild witch Nimue uses Merlin’s secrets to attempt to bring the old Gods back to Britain.Another excellent tale, a thrilling realistic adventure set in the murky mists of 500 AD Britain (though in this volume, more than the others, the Druids’ magic does seem to be effective, which makes the historical realism tag a bit thin).
As I’ve said for each previous book, Cornwell really knows how to wield the pen and push out the page-turners.
Wonderful version of Arthur. Truly enjoyed all 3 books.
Muito bom mesmo!Tal como os volumes anteriores, é relato por Derfel, amigo e um dos lordes guerreiros de Artur.A escrita é fantástica, transportando-nos para a época, com uma excelente caracterização de personagens, e em que facilmente gostamos de umas e odiamos outras.
But his story wasn’t over, nor was that of Derfel Cadarn, our narrator who is one of Arthur’s most trusted men.Loose ends are tied up, storylines come together so that Derfel can rest.
There are even still some surprises and twists that we don’t see coming.
The tragedies in this one might not hit as close to the heart as in the previous books, but the tone of the entire novel carries a sense of foreboding as we seem to be headed towards the end of the world as Arthur knew it.It’s a satisfying conclusion to a memorable trilogy, bringing the legend of Arthur and 5th century Britain to a new level of epic storytelling.
Quando alguém mencionar de agora em diante um livro épico, este vai ser o primeiro que vai vir à minha mente.
Este terceiro volume exalou urgência e emoção do começo ao fim.
Os dramas vividos pelos personagens finalmente tiveram a sua resolução e o final de Artur foi digno de seu personagem, mesmo ele tendo decaído por conta de suas escolhas.
Eu ansiava a todo o momento por voltar às páginas e continuar de onde parei.
Simplesmente o melhor volume 3 de qualquer trilogia que eu li até o momento.
Impactante!
Vagner Stefanello) por ter me apresentado Bernard Cornwell.
The conclusion to Cornwell's Arthurian trilogy served up his usual pathos-filled battles and flawed characters making lives for themselves, with an added dose of bittersweet end-of-an-era tragedy. This being a clever blend of myth and historical fiction the tragedy was somewhat predictable and had a slight element of tying-up-loose-ends, but I can admit to the satisfaction of having called the copiously foreshadowed plot points. A fitting, satisfying and emotionally resonant finale.
The Winter King, book 1, and Enemy of God, book 2, were both well written, entertaining and interesting (I gave both 4 stars as they were good but not great), but this book finishes off the trilogy with war, carnage, destruction and misery; it had its good things too, but we are talking about dark ages England and what else would you expect of Arthur.
This was a wonderful trilogy, I just enjoy the other a little more but that may simply be because I am a student of the Northmen who populate the Saxon tales.Back to this story; why does this book rate 5 over the 4 I gave to the first 2 books?
Incredible finish to an incredible series. That ending left me deeply satisfied and I was completely invested emotionally with the characters ending.
The whole story is being narrated by Derfel Cadarn, and his present time is a depressing situation, he is an old monk with only one hand, who suffers from the rules Saint Sansum (a treacherous character all through the series) imposes in the monastery.
The legends say that Mordred and Arthur kill each other in their last battle and that Arthur is carried away to the mythic Avalon, but Bernard Cornwell's books are deeply rooted in a realistic world, and such things are out of the question (except, apparently, voodoo.) In the end, Arthur is left wounded and he does sail away, but whether he lives or dies is left unclear.
The last book in the trilogy is definitely the best one.Arthur is still trying to consolidate he kingdom for Mordred, but all he wants is to retire to a farm with Guinivere.
Derfel still fights for the King and for his Lord, but he prefers to spend time with Arthur and his family.
Meanwhile, Nimue, angry that her plans were foiled when Arthur's son wasn't murdered, curses Derfel and all he knows.
Intent on her own plans to bring the old Gods back to the land, she becomes yet one more enemy for Arthur to fight.A brilliant end to the trilogy.
This was one of those rare books that pained me to let go. I did not want it to end, and when it did it felt like I had lost a good friend. This trilogy was an amazing retelling of a well known story, one of the best, I should add. Really, the best storytelling I have experienced in a long, long time.
As pessoas não desistem da esperança por causa do desapontamento, Derfel, elas só redobram a esperança. Merlin, pág. 98
Chorei copiosamente com esse final.Obrigado, Cornwell.
