https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459123.The_Lost_Girl
So, the scholars agree that this book isn't as good as most of Lawrence's other work, and maybe they're right. I don't know. I'm not a scholar. All I know is that this book helped me recapture the sense of absorption I felt while reading The Rainbow at a very stressful and unhappy time in my life, and for that it gets five stars and my eternal gratitude, even if it doesn't deserve them.
In this book, The Lost Girl, Lawrence is clearly preoccupied with the word and the novel is very much focused on it and its associated act.
She clearly cannot bring herself to the fabrication she privately craves and so the affair, surely destined for marriage in the eyes of the locals, comes to nought.Women close to The Lost Girl die.
But suddenly new opportunities arise for Alvina to think of fabrication, and fabrication with foreigners involved to boot!And so the story of Lawrence’s The Lost Girl eventually fabricates its way from Derbyshire, and we leave Alvina in what looks like a new - though very old fashioned - life in changed circumstances.
The Lost Girl by D.H. Lawrence is a remarkable achievement of literary craftsmanship.
Lawrence's meticulous attention to detail provides the reader with a penetrating look into one girl's world, a world of inner struggle.
The flowering youth, Alvina, who has always been cared for by her father and his attendants, seeks to find herself afresh, independent of an overbearing society with its rigid rules and expectations.She meets an Italian of exotic beauty, Ciccio, who is employed to work at her father's new theater.
This beautiful and accurate portrayal of one girl's wish to find herself in a complicated world is worth the effort.
"'Why is it? I don't know. I don't know. The pictures are cheap, and they are easy, and they cost the audience nothing, no feeling of the heart, no appreciation of the spirit, cost them nothing of these. And so they like them, and they don't like us, because they must feel the things we do, from the heart, and appreciate them from the spirit. There!''And they don't want to appreciate and to feel?' said Mr. May.'No. They don't want. They want it all through the eye, and finished - so!..'"
As ever, Lawrence writes beautifully. In this novel, he seems a little bitter about the place of the exceptional individual in a conformity-based society. I enjoy his bisexual heroes, and laughed out loud when the one here tells his boyfriend that there is room for all three of them in his new girlfriend's bed.
DH Lawrence, hipster writer. Full of sullen, handsome young circus men on bicycles.
This book gets off to a slow start, but it's well worth sticking it out through the first few chapters.
While there are definitely aspects of tragedy to her life, she strives for control over it.
The book raises some interesting questions: What does it mean to be lost?; Is being lost a good thing?; To what extent are we in control of our own destiny?
The tone definitely becomes darker near the end, but whether the ending can be seen as pessimistic or optimistic is really up to the reader's interpretation.
What a lady! Apart from that, some other unforgettable characters, and discerning information on class divisions in the 1920s.
A fascinating, lesser-known Lawrence novel that uses vaudeville as its backdrop and features a really terrific female protagonist. Well worth reading!
DNF @25%. Sorry.
Perfect study of a woman's dilemma, as relevant today as it was in the early 20th Century. One frustration: I never felt I truly trusted any of the characters.
I felt the healing touch of this book.
And not even so much social and political conventions, but the conventions of feelings and true, visceral emotions, not the laced and guarded "correct" emotions we put on in our public, and even private lives.
But Lawrence seems to be little concerned with that....though I think if these internal barriers fell by the wayside, those social and political ones would too.
I think she was no longer lost when she was able to let him be what he was, how he was...or at least it was a start of finding her way.Lawrence is a very sensual writer, concerned with the senses and the feelings of his characters.
Shamefully this is the first novel by D.H Lawrence I've read (my English Lit friends must hate me!).
The Lost Girl is slow and brooding as it seems like a book that focuses much more on the rich and beautifully textured nature of the English language, rather than the actual story if you catch my drift.
I found myself completely enraptured by some of Lawrence's prose (this is a very descriptive book), but almost bored by other parts, especially when it comes to the characters who I developed no real feelings towards.
A strange one, but I can certainly appreciate his writing, if not his overall concepts.
3.5 out of 5 stars. Lawrence's work is rich thematically - looking at the "outsider", the woman as sexual being, the class system and social climbing. He has some excellent passages and scenes that are thoroughly gripping. Where did it leave me wanting? Alvina is an uninspiring heroine, never seemingly fully developed. Lawrence also abruptly shifts gears in his storytelling without smoother, more complete transitions. Many of the masterful Lawrence elements that I love in his works are already there, but he hasn't quite yet found his groove in this novel as a well-rounded storyteller.
Written in fits and starts, this is a novel that barely hangs together. Quite understandably the sections written (the beginning and the end) when Lawrence was most settled work best, but the middle part dealing with the traveling theatre/circus group, which was apparently written on the move, is plain awful. As humourless as any Lawrence work but there are only brief glimpses of his celebrations of straight-forward life.
What a peculiar story, and yet fairly average type of life for the heroine. I wasn't sure if I'd like this. It was my first D.H. Lawrence. He offers some quiet humor, subtle whit and satire, and unique commentary on the period. I'm not sure I'd go around recommending this novel, but I also wouldn't call a waste of time
Hadn't read Lawrence for ages but really enjoyed going back to him - so much a part of my formative years. Would I even have become a reader without Lady Chatterley at 15?
Very sad story , Wondering why she allowed all the crap into her life , So much pity towards the end..
TruthFull of the truth about women, men, love... How did DH Lawrence come to know so much about the truth of being human
Alvina Houghton becomes 'The Lost Girl' as family circumstances and seemingly poor choices cause her to lose her place in middle-class society. An engagement to Ciccio, a handsome but atavistic Italian actor, seals her fate. Set in the Edwardian Midlands and, finally, in a remote Italian hill farm, Lawrence's novel tackles class, independence, love, and contrasts the downtrodden industrial worker with the indomitable, noble peasant: at its heart 'The Lost Girl' is a portrayal of romanticism versus realism. An excellent slow burner; Lawrence's rendering of characters and places are vivid and memorable.
Like a lot of books written during this period, I found this kind of boring. It was a tough read to get through.
Iubitorii de literatură clasică se pot bucura de apariția volumului Fata pierdută, poate cel mai accesibil roman al lui D.H. Lawrence.
Pasiunea lui Lawrence pentru psihanaliză și teoria lui potrivit căreia simțurile au întâietate și omenirea a ajuns în punctul în care trebuie să se reîntoarcă spre atavism pentru a se revitaliza sunt două dintre cele mai puternic conturate teme ale cărții.
Here, our protagonist is Alvina, a girl from a good English family, who ends up with nothing after her father dies and has a string of unfulfilling courtships while trying to figure out her place in the world.
We leave Ciccio and Alvina smack in the middle of a conversation, right when life is about to get very trying.
It feels almost as if Lawrence became bored with this story, walked away from it and never bothered to finish it.
Which is disappointing, but the rest of the book is still good, so it's definitely worth the read.
Considerat cel mai accesibil roman al lui Lawrence, Fata pierdută este o excelentă ilustrare a teoriilor autorului cu privire la întâietatea simţurilor asupra raţiunii, la dragostea ca element primordial al naturii, la distrugerea miturilor filistine şi rigide de constrângere a iubirii libere.
Povestea Alvinei Houghton, o tânără onorabilă, dintr-un orăşel de provincie englez, este un exemplu de răsturnare, împotriva tuturor piedicilor, a tiparelor unei vieţi conformiste.
Acţiunea romanului se ţese în jurul deciziei Alvinei de a-şi urma iubitul, un tânăr actor italian dintr-o trupă ambulantă, refuzând câteva propuneri profitabile de căsătorie.de la sursă: Fata pierdută de D.H. Lawrence – SemneBune http://semnebune.ro/2012/fata-pierdut...
It was a bit hard for me to finish the book.
But I did and I don't regret it.
At first, I thought it was nothing special, but when I put it aside, I found myself pondering upon it.
I thought about Alvina.
Her character is so raw, so real...
I kept wondering what would become of her.
She seemed to me both lost and found; a person with no inner peace and endless struggle; a woman whose heart is tired of rules and conventions.
And though the writing style of the book is not to my liking (some passages excluded), the characters are, to me, as real as life.
Mi-a placut parcursul, mi-a placut 'incetineala' cu care autorul a descris viata Alvinei, fata pierduta.
Aceasta incetineala e parca impotriva vremii.
Desi autorul descrie femeia anilor 1900, e incredibil de relevanta si pentru timpurile in care traim.
E vorba despre femeia aia care e prea femeie ca sa nu se planga si sa nu se suceasca in interiorul ei de o mie de ori si care e prea femeia-in-afara-timpului care intotdeauna ar vrea sa aiba optiunea de fugi undeva cand simte ca nu mai poate.
Femeia care vrea independenta si dependenta in acelasi timp, acel paradox minunat in care se invarte personajul principal.
David Herbert Richards Lawrence (n. 11 septembrie 1885 – d. 2 martie 1930) a fost un scriitor englez.Opera sa, puternic influențată de psihanaliza freudiană, exprimă efectul industrializării asupra ființei umane, conflictul dintre instinct și intelect, revolta împotriva supraevaluării spiritualului și reprimării senzualității naturale, ca manifestări puritane, pledând pentru întoarcerea la natură (...)Continuarea recenziei pe blog:https://literarybook.wordpress.com/20...
This is not the first book I read from Lawrence, and I thought I'd like this. Somewhere along the book there is a sentence about how the girl is extraordinary, which I think is not the case.I do not know what category I should put this book in, but the character did not change, nothing particular happened to her. I was kind of bored listening to the story of boring things happening to her. I already forgot her name even...
I really identify with the main character in The Lost Girl. It's all like, 'Ooo girl, that man of yours is wreaking havoc in your life,' but she just does not care. This novel could've been titled Dickmatized. Obviously I don't truly comprehend the setting of 'proper young ladies must do this and such,' but to a certain degree that's a part of every culture.Maybe everyone can identify with The Lost Girl.
