https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21546482-how-it-feels-to-be-colored-me
"Sometimes, I feel discriminated against, but it does not make me angry. It merely astonishes me. How can any deny themselves the pleasure of my company?"
"Sometimes, I feel discriminated against, but it does not make me angry. It merely astonishes me. How can any deny themselves the pleasure of my company? It's beyond me." That entire piece was great.
"Sometimes, I feel discriminated against, but it does not make me angry. It merely astonishes me. How can any deny themselves the pleasure of my company? It's beyond me." - Zora Neale HurstonHer heart encourages mine that even when people are being hateful - it is always their loss and not our own, no matter the reason for their ignorance and hate. I love her writing, it gives me hope in humanity and helps me to see the good inside people.
Zora is one of my favorite women in history. She didn't let anyone of anything stop her or bring her down. What makes this specific piece stand out is the fact that it connects with people of all races. Anyone who has been the only one of their kind in a room full of another demographic can connect to this, and people who have never had that experience can find a deeper understanding of those who do face it.
I wasn't a huge fan of this short story. Kudos to Hurston for not acknowledging or accepting racism. While I did like the point she was making, which was that no matter how different we look on the outside, we are made of the same stuff on the inside. Everybody deals with loss and joy, pain and suffering, nostalgia, and regrets. Yes it was very eloquent but it just didn't do anything for me.
A pleasant statement on both being a part of your race/culture and rising above those limiting distinctions in order to be uniquely a person--one whose traits elevate and distinguish beyond history and skin tone.
Putting both together creates an interesting lens through which to see the world.Say, for example, that women go through life with a blue lens over everything–they see things a little bit differently than men.
But blacks go through life with a red lens–seeing things differently than white people.
While this isn’t necessarily an example of it, Hurston did a lot of work with southern folklore, as well, and was known for discussing “colorism”–prejudice against different shades of the same race.
Hurston's prose is so fascinating and lively that it makes for such a pleasurable reading experience. Her ideas are insightful, and her ways of expressing them are unique.
This is just delightful. We have so much to learn from her.
Zora Neale Hurston published this essay in 1928, and it speaks of her experiences in discovering the effects of racial segregation throughout her childhood.
Zora grew up in a small town in Florida and discusses how living in Eatonville (an all-black town,) guarded her against the cruelties of racialistic consequence.
Zora also discusses her journey in finding her cultural identity and how this can be difficult in situations where your culture may not be encouraged or embraced.
This was incredibly difficult for Zora when she went to Barnard College (Columbia Univerity), in New York, where she was the only black student in the college.
This is such a powerful essay. Her words are rich with life and extend the pride of her own skin. As I read it, though short, Hurston's voice came through in such a moving way.
I remember the very day that I became colored.
It is exclusively a colored town.
The only white people I knew passed through the town going to or coming from Orlando.
The native whites rode dusty horses, the Northern tourists chugged down the sandy village road in automobiles.
The town knew the Southerners and never stopped cane chewing when they passed.
But the Northerners were something else again.
The more venturesome would come out on the porch to watch them go past and got just as much pleasure out of the tourists as the tourists got out of the village.
A reread of my favorite essay. This is what made me fall in love with Zora Neale Hurston. If you've never read any of her work, do yourself a favor and check it out.
Beautiful short essay about race and self-pride. Zora's short-story is inspirational as she does not let what anyone else thinks define her
43/40 books read in 2016.2016 Classics Challenge: #5
There is not enough stars to say how good this essay is. This story exposes racial thinking and how what one person thinks of you can change you if you let it.
"No, I do not weep at the world-'I'm too busy sharpening my oyster knife." -- one of my favorite lines from Cosmic Zora.
"I feel most colored when I am thrown against a sharp white background."
