https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80461.Storm_Boy_Picture_Book
I never read Storm Boy as a child but I do recall watching the movie several times.
While I enjoyed the detailed description of scenery in this book, my girl didn’t appreciate it so much.
But when it came to Storm Boy and Mr. Percival coming together and their interaction, she was in her element.
A lover of animals and wildlife of all kinds, she found their relationship endearing and humorous, especially when it came to Storm Boy training Mr. Percival to fetch.
In my opinion, this is a morally important book for kids, showing the bad side of human behaviour and disrespect towards our wildlife and animals.
I cried over this book as a child. On rereading it as an adult to my kids I marvelled at how perfectly written it is - what a beautiful, heart-wrenching story set in an area I know well.
Currently reading, but I had read it as a child. My brother sent it to me when he visited Australia. I was eleven, or so.I am rereading to see why I loved it so, and why some of the story has stayed with me after all these years. And I do still love it. I love the quietness of it, the feel of the salt air on my face as I read. I can hear the birds, I swear I can.Yes, I still love this book, and still want to visit this rugged coast, just maybe not in the Winter.
Finally got my hands on a copy of this little classic. For such a little novel it left me with such a big impression.
Having previously lived not far from Goolwa and The Coorong, and also having been entertained by Mr Percival (from the movie) at the Adelaide Zoo as a youngster, I felt quite sentimental re-reading this book after so many years.
For me, the book still evoked the same raw emotions as they did 30 years ago when I first read the story.
A powerful YA story packed into a short 60ish pages that is still valid today and can be read in conjunction with the equally powerful SA Film Corporation movie of the same name (and some tissues).
The reason I'm giving this 3 stars is not so much because I liked it, but because the author was kind to me as 9yr old. Our class read this in primary school and then Colin Thiele came to our school for a Q&A session. We were asked to write a thank you letter to him and, remembering that he had arthritis, I mentioned this in my letter. His response to the class came back with the line, "And yes, Ruby, my AUTHORITUS is much better now, thank you. Haha!" Yes. Let's all pretend I did that on purpose....
A lovely classic Australian short story about a boy and his pelican.
It was a joy to read this story with my daughter, so evocative, so sad, so beautiful.First published in 1963, "Storm Boy" explores the relationship between a boy and his friend, even when the friend is a pelican, as well as touching on hunting, conservation, and the isolation, remoteness, and hardships of parts of Australia.
But mostly his love of the land speaks to every reader.Note there are parts of the book parents may not approve.(view spoiler)[- Storm Boy goes with his father to live in this lonely place at the age of 4.
His last work, "Mr Dumby's Duck", was published 2006.The CoorongAs much as character of the book as Storm Boy, Thiele makes the reader feel like a part of the landscape.
I can't believe I've never read this book! It's incredible. A compelling story that is beautifully written, it creates rich visual imagery. A wonderful story about the relationship between humans and animals.
This is a lovely read about the power of friendship and the strange places you find it.
The mostalgic toastiness of a much loved childhood book.
Classic - had top read this to help a child I teach. Love this book.
It's the kind of book that makes me wish I had more children so as to read it to them.
Every time we read it.What do I love about this book?
For a children's novel, it features a gloriously rich evocation of South Australia's Coorong – a coastal landscape of dunes, lakes, and lagoons – so engaging that when I first visited as an adult, I actually felt like I had been before.
Without being in the least bit preachy, it serves as a beautiful meditation on the moral significance of land and ocean and our fellow creatures and serves as a counterwitness to contemporary consumerist values.It also has one of the most moving – frankly saddest – endings of any novel I have read.
I was awarded this book in 1976 ‘for neatness’ by my primary school teacher....It says so in the front page of my edition of this book which was released with the film starring Greg Rowe as Storm Boy and David Gulpilil as Fingerbone Bill.True to my nature, I have carefully looked after this book ever since, naturally placing it under ‘T’ in the Australian author section on my bookshelf between February Dragon and Sun on the Stubble.(Of course nowdays I’m roundly derided as being a charmless anal retentive cleanliness nazi.
I miss the old days when one’s merits were rightly celebrated.)A lovely book which I always thought of as an Australian version of Charlotte’s web - although nowdays my memories of Storm Boy are dominated by the charismatic & ethereal presence of Gulpilil.
One of those books I've always meant to read but haven't.
This piece of Classic Australian, Children's Fiction can easily be enjoyed by everyone.
Storm Boy is a boy growing up with his father, alone together, in a beach shack down among the dunes of an isolated coastline.
Both enjoy their solitary life and have little outside contact until three orphaned, baby pelicans come into their lives.
The smallest, Mr Percival, turns out to be one very special bird!
This is a book you can read in a day and shows us how special connections can be made with any living creature.
Wonderful descriptive writing engaging all the senses. An indictment on thoughtless thrill-seeker hunters and a sensitive portrayal of a boy belonging in his environment and the powerful relationship one can have with all living things.
Read this aloud to my eldest as part of his marine and aquaculture technology course and we both LOVED it! Now to see how the movie stacks up.
3.5 it was good! I watched the movie as well
I remember watching the move Storm Boy when I was a little girl and i had never read the book... so when i saw it i snavelled it up and I honestly loved it! such a great children's book!! one of my favorites
A wonderful little short story.
This is an Australian children's classic ... although I didn't like it much as a child.
I read this one with Ezra before we left on holiday, and it was the first time I revisited it in thirty years. I was a little surprised how bleak it was, and the violence against the animals is really quite shocking to the modern reader (albeit depressingly accurate). All in all, a great coming of age tale that rings very true to anyone who is naturally drawn to the beach. We both liked this one a lot.
It was interesting returning to this book after 30 something years. I have strong memories of the film and thought I might read this to my class as an end-of-year quickie.Turns out I wasn't as impressed as I remembered. The sense of "place" is great, but I am not sure whether that was due to the text or the pictures included from the film. The text was a lot simpler than I expected. This might be one of the few occasions where I prefer the film to the book. I will revisit that too over the next couple of weeks!
Surprisingly, this book was very hard to get into, as it had a lot of Australian language that I had not come across before. "Blunderbuss and Humpy", were just a few of the words I had to try and work out. Once the introductions had been done, the story had a good base to it, and was enjoyable and engaging to read. I would recommend this for a class reader to connect students with Australian places and life style.
After visiting the Murray Mouth yesterday, I thought I'd dust this old classic off and give it a re-read. Still made me cry at 35 years of age. I still refer to pelicans as Mr Percival...Edited Aug 2013 - I've upped this from 4 to 5 stars as I've just read it to my class, and having children who usually avoid reading asking me to read it through their lunch breaks, and more than half the class fighting back tears, I think it's worthy of a 5 star rating. A true South Australian classic.
Storm Boy lives free with his dad, Hide-away, and their friend Fingerbone in a remote part of Australia. None of the conveniences of modern life are available to them, but life is so happy that no one misses any of these things. One day, Storm Boy saves a pelican and the pelican becomes his very closest friend. A gentle story of a simple time and place. A 1001 CBYMRBYGU.
Such a sad book, but reminds you of the silver lining's of life. Like when (view spoiler)[ Mr Percival dies, the silver lining is that Storm Boy gets an education even though it's so sad. (hide spoiler)] And it shows how life can be simple, with few possessions and you can still have fun and create an adventure out of only the imagination.
Anyone who knows the Coorong (near the mouth of the Murray River in South Australia, for those who don't), this book is beautifully evocative of the windswept wild ocean-battered sandhills. A gentle and moving portrayal of a pelican and a boy.
Loved it as a child and an adult - cried then and now. Read with my 7 yo (2014) - she loved it too. Captures the location perfectly and beautiful relationships between child, father and these beautiful birds.
We really own a compilation with Storm boy and other stories: Storm Boy and Other Stories
