https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16101126-the-moon-and-more
But that's exactly what I like about her novels--they're about nothing and yet absolutely everything at the same time.In the summer before college, Emaline is working at her family's vacation rental in the beach town of Colby when she starts to question her "perfect" relationship with her boyfriend Luke, as well as her complicated relationship with her absentee father.
And I have to say, I wasn't a huge fan of Theo's, so there wasn't as much swoon in this book as I'm used to in other novels by this author, although there's a hint at towards the end that something great could develop down the road.But as always, Sarah Dessen delivers a terrific summer book.
After Reading:I love Sarah Dessen, but did not love The Moon and More. The last 30 pages were better than the first 400, and I feel kind of guilty writing that. Oh well. Win some, lose some, doesn't really matter! Her books will always hold a special place in my heart.Before Reading:I get stupidly excited every time a new Sarah Dessen book is announced. I only hope the cross-over characters are a little more interesting this time! I’m also hoping we see Jason again, I’m so curious about him.
This? When? How? THISWHENHOW?! Oh. My. God. *faints*
Sarah Dessen \Sa-rah Des-sen\ ; noun : the reason why I failed Algebra II in high school. No hard feelings or anything.♦ She’s just that badass. ♦What’s so kickass about this Sarah Dessen is that she doesn’t put her heroines on this high pedestal for us to read about and want to be like. Instead, she creates heroines who we can relate to . Her characters are flawed, and they probably can’t take down an entire city of villains, and they don’t always have perfect hair.And I fucking love it! Emal
♦What’s so kickass about this Sarah Dessen is that she doesn’t put her heroines on this high pedestal for us to read about and want to be like.
Her characters are flawed, and they probably can’t take down an entire city of villains, and they don’t always have perfect hair.And I fucking love it!
She’s right smack in the middle of a comfortable life.
She has a summer job, a slightly dysfunctional family (who she loves), she got accepted to her dream college, and she has the *perfect* boyfriend.
He’s so unlike Luke, but Emaline can’t help but be drawn to the artistic Theo.
WHAT IN THE NAME OF ALL THAT IS GOOD AND HOLY IS THIS.The literal synopsis of this book is "Girl dates intolerable boy for 400 pages before realizing boy is intolerable.
Book ends."IT IS SO PAINFUL TO READ AHHHHH.Sarah Dessen why would you do this to me.Also later on in the book, said intolerable boy says "You're not just any other girl" (the ugly stepsister of "not like other girls") and our lovely protagonist is all wow........I really needed 2 hear that.
There is no such thing as any other girl.”OKAY SURE 2013 SARAH DESSEN COME FOR MY LIFEevery YA contemporary author of today needs to get on that 2013 dessen sh*t stat i'm having the time of my life
me on sarah dessen:me when i heard about this:I CAN'T FREAKIN' CONTAIN MY EXCITEMENT YOU GUYS PLZ SEND HELPtitle one: The Best Ever Aftertitle two: Someone Else's Summertitle three: The Moon and More
I honestly didn't know how I was supposed to feel about him, though.
I don't know if I was supposed to feel sad because they were trying to make it work and it just couldn't...
Why throw in a character that we think we're supposed to invest in and not even wrap things up in the end?
I thought he was the love interest the entire book but he ended up just being a side character that didn't matter.
Just to show that some things don't work out like you want?
It's a situation many can relate to, making this book - a single summer in the life of a small town girl - surprisingly engaging.
With two sisters, a grandmother, a mother, a father and a dad, in an exceptionally small town, Emaline's family is a large part of her every day life, especially that she's working at the family business renting summer houses on the beach (I did envy her job once or twice!).
He definitely doesn't fit into the small town life Emaline has been so comfortable in, and to be honest he kind of grated on my nerves for most of the book.
Let this one be more original than her last two books, please God I'm begging you. Sarah Dessen's way of recycling past material (and lines!) makes me quite weary of her sometimes. I hope this one is a little more fresh.
This sounds exactly like the same plot that Dessen uses in mostly all of her works -_- [image error][image error]Generally, the parents are divorced/one of them has remarried and has kids, both/one are academically demanding, one is dominantly absent, etc. The protagonist is an outsider to whatever small town she moves into, she meets a different, cute boy who has a side that only SHE gets to witness. Really, Dessen? Really? Kingsley would not approve.Whatever. We'll see how "The Moon and More" goes.
Emaline (I'm soooo tempted to type that name with two m's) lives in the beach town of Colby and we find her during the summer before she is to start college.
She works in the family business, has a perfect boyfriend, a great family, and has a full ride to a college a few hours away from home and guess what?
But Emaline's summer isn't going to turn out how she thinks.
To top off her summer her father comes to visit, and this after months of no contact.
“Life is long. Just because you don't get your chance right when you want or expect it doesn't mean it won't come. Fate doesn't punch a time clock or consult a schedule.”  I enjoyed reading this book but it wasn't my favorite, if I had to choose which one I liked best by Sarah Dessen. I don't know why, but I had a hard time warming up to one of the characters. And it bothered me through out the story because of the fact that he was one of the characters that we see often in a book. But althoug
I enjoyed reading this book but it wasn't my favorite, if I had to choose which one I liked best by Sarah Dessen.
This book is about an 18 year old girl Emailine who has almost everything that she wants.
Emailine isn't sure about what she wants for her life, but right when she decided, a bunch of people think that her choices aren't right.
I knew exactly how he felt and I loved his relationship with Emailine.
Trust me, you will love it and Sarah Dessen knows how to make so many different stories with the best life lessons!
And after her boyfriend of 139471399 years agrees that they take a BREAK (not a breakup people), Emaline promptly stuffs her tongue down annoying, sissy, idiotic moronhead's Theo's throat within four hours.Man she moves fast."Enter Theo, a super-ambitious outsider, a New Yorker assisting on a documentary film about a reclusive local artist.
Theo's sophisticated, exciting, and, best of all, he thinks Emaline is much too smart for Colby."LIES.
And your, you know, long relationship, which was clearly very important and meaningful.”“True,” I told him.“But for me,” he said, smiling again, “it’s good news.
I can't wait! I've read all of Dessen's books, and I can tell you, she is my all-time-favorite-author!!! :3
In the midst of all this, though, Emaline's relationship with Luke isn't heading in the direction she planned and now her father is driving down for the summer as well.
Emaline's relationship with her mother is deep and touching, the kind of bond that takes years to build but is so effectively conveyed by Dessen's writing.
Dessen can write beautiful sibling relationships, as she proved with this installment, but I felt as if the bonds between step-sisters was forsaken in this novel in favor of the half-brother relationship Emaline sustained with Benji.
Boring. The characters were annoying, the way the story was told as well as the writing were confusing and I didn't care at all for the romance, I despised it. It was my first Sarah Dessen book and I'm quite disappointed. I own two other books from her, let's just hope they are better.
This is only my second Sarah Dessen book so I wasn't sure what to expect.
And while I liked this book a lot, I didn't love it like I did Just Listen.The Moon and More started out really great but I felt it became pretty slow early on.
I liked Emaline a lot but I didn't really care for either of the boys.
I did like the ending because it wasn't the typical ending that I was expecting.
Overall, I liked The Moon and More and I'm glad I read it but I didn't love it.
:) Love!What was exciting about this novel is that the story is a bit different than Dessen’s other books as she takes us back to Colby, but this time we get a glimpse of life in this eastern seaboard town through the lens of a resident.
What I liked about the shift in perspective is that these residents share their story of how summer visitors come and shake up their lives for a few months out of the year, and at times leaving a wake of emotional turmoil behind."Again it occurred to me how weird it was to be permanent in a place that everyone else was only temporary."For Emmaline, it’s a summer of life changing events.
It wasn't like Dreamland (my favorite by Sarah Dessen, I wish she would write another one like it), but it didn't follow her usual boy meets girl line.
Luke did cheat on her, but I didn't find it to be an action to get back at Emaline, but the realization he had been dating her for three years and he couldn't see other girls.
I don't know what happened to Emaline and maybe there will be more information about them in a later book.
I love anything Sarah Dessen and I can't wait for another book.
I liked this one - it actually is fairly different from most of Sarah Dessen's other books which is nice :) But it isn't one of my favourites by her either.
Believe me, that has been a difficult wait.The Moon and More was a different experience for me as a fan of Sarah, because it's the first book of hers that I've read after I've grown up (a bit..
All of Sarah's books deal with change and coming of age in one way or another, but The Moon and More is a bit more traditional in handling this.
Queen Dessen, Empress Dessen, and Rock Star of YA Realistic Fiction Dessen - all titles I whispered while reading this book, usually after the words "bow down to..." After ten previously published novels, Sarah Dessen still has that signature prose style of hers - just enough telling and showing to suck you in while establishing back story, a setting that sits in the back of your mind when you close your eyes, and characters that you can believe in.The summer after her senior year, Emaline has only a few months left to spend at Colby - the beach town she's lived all her life - until she leaves for East U.
Lo cierto es que me he llevado una sorpresa con este libro. Ha sido una mezcla de sensaciones importante. Justo cuando pensaba que me iba a dejar indiferente, en el momento en el que más necesitaba que la historia fuera distinta, que se alejara de los tópicos, ¡bum! Todo ha pegado un giro que no he visto venir. Ha conseguido que cierre el libro con una sonrisa y me ha hecho pensar. Creo que Sarah Dessen siempre deja alguna cosita especial dentro de sus libros, una perlita.
i love her books! i really do but...ENOUGH WITH THE SUMMER ROMANCE!!!i just want more masterpieces like Dreamland :O
In this book, Dessen seemed to attempt a little more subtely than her typical sad girl meets dreamy boy who changes her life.
Part of the problem is certainly the side characters.
Perhaps the biggest problem was the fact that I didn't really like Emaline.
Because it certainly never seemed like it.
She wasn't a very flawed character, which to me, doesn't make her feel like a real person.
What does that even mean Emaline?There were more problems with this book, (it's pacing, Luke's characteriziation, the breakup, etc.) that I don't even want to go into.
Most of the story was okay, but it was nothing special.
However the ending really made up for that.
That wasn't the typical contemporary YA romance ending.
The main character doesn't end up with neither of her love interests.
But it is still a happy ending.
I love that here the main character doesn't need a boy to be happy.
I love the sweet and cute books, in which the characters end up together, but it is really refreshing to see a heroine, which realizes that a boy isn't everything and has her own ambitions and goals.
NEW SARAH DESSEN BOOK, SAY WHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAT!Update 26/6/13:This was so good! Loved it, loved it, loved it <3Update 9/11/12:Ooooh pretty cover! Sarah Dessen has such pretty covers <3And, you know you're a prestigious author when your name's bigger than the title of the book. ;)
Now onto my slightly more negative first review (I don't agree with half of these things anymore, just saying ) You can find this review and others on my blog: http://inlovewithbookishthings.blogsp...After reading The Moon and More I can say with the utmost confidence that Sarah Dessen is my favorite author of all time.
Sarah Dessen attempted a love triangle but I didn't really like the way she went about writing it.
Sarah Dessen's heroines usually have some sort of gusto that is different from other heroines seen in YA fiction, but Emaline is definitely at the end of the list for me.
One of my favorite things about Sarah Dessen's books is that while there is some romance, there's also family and friendship relationships that are as important, if not more. Emaline is sorting out her relationship with her father, who keeps hurting her and is selfish. She's also starting to understand her mom's position and want of a better life for her. I also like that even though there aren't sequels of her books, the author still gives us little glimpses of past characters, so they link together. I enjoyed this book and was especially happy with the ending.
THE MOON AND MORE isn't one of her more romantic novels, but Emaline is a memorable heroine with an absorbing story.(Please note that the above paragraph is not a knock on John Green.
She's got family trouble, guy trouble, but most of all she's dealing with moving on in her life and growing older.
I loved Emaline's relationship with him, because Benji needs someone on his side.I also liked how Dessen managed the romantic aspects.
It's not quite a love triangle; Emaline is never with both guys at the same time.
Emaline's bildungsroman is perfect beach reading, especially for Dessen's fans who want to return to the town of Colby.
4'5/5Me ha encantado volver a Colby, con una historia similar a Along for the ride, con el cual disfruté cada una de sus páginas. Con una historia sencilla, aunque apenas haya giros, sorpresas o acciones impactantes, pero que posee una narración cuidada, consigue trasladar al lector al verano eterno de sus libros. Los personajes son reales, creíbles y sufren su pequeña evolución, siempre aportando su lección en la vida al final. Un libro totalmente recomendado.
