https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7062.Paris_to_the_Moon
Who doesn't think the idea of running away w/ your adult family to Paris wouldn't be fantastic?Gopnik is excellent at revealing the sutle differences between life in the States and France that make up two completely seperate cultures.
My favorite quote from the book because it reveals how culture is prominently defined, even in toddlers:Luke, the Gopnik's 4 yr old son, who has only lived in Paris and as such is more French than American and more French than his parents, says the following to his mother upon seeing Santa buying champagne on Christmas Eve while out for last minutes holiday touches w/ his father.
By choosing any subject that took his fancy at the time – whether the World Cup, a Nazi war crimes trial, fashion, or gastronomy – Gopnik gleefully flouts conventions of theme and narrative, yet still manages to convey the trajectory of his years in Paris, generally through his young son Luke’s development, as in “He saw, I realized, exactly the way that after five years I spoke French, which also involved a lot of clinging to the side of the pool and sudden bravura dashes out to the deep end to impress the girls, or listeners.”Gopnik is at his best when writing about food (my favorite of his books is The Table Comes First) and bureaucracy: “The French birth certificate was like the first paragraph of a nineteenth-century novel, with the baby’s parents’ names, their occupations, the years of their births and of their emigration, their residence, and her number, baby number 2365 born in Neuilly in 1999.” It’s interesting to hear about Halloween creeping into France, as it’s also done in the UK.
He lived in Paris five years, which is certainly long enough think of a place as really home, especially when that's all your child has ever known.
So for him to keep reminding us that his real home was in New York and this Paris "experience" was just a temporary experiment, I, as an expat myself, felt this made his "expat" experience seem more like an extended vacation.
I kept wondering if he would have seen and written about Paris differently if he wasn't on a temporary assignment but thought of it as his real, long-term home.
I am one of those people (and we are legion) who have an unrequited love affair going with Paris.
Not that he spends all of his time in the clouds; much of this book details the challenges of being an American living in Paris, the differences that enthrall and needle, and the little failures of everyday life that are somehow amplified by being in a country other than one's own.If you already have your own affair of the heart going with Paris, or have ever wanted to begin one, this is a great read.
The first reason this book was written, I believe, was so the author could impress all us ignorant English speakers with his knowledge of French.
Actually, he should have just written this book in French and not annoyed us English speakers at all.
Then, of course, we could all just slap our own children silly for being so entirely ordinary in comparison.This book is so pretentious, I had trouble getting through the first few chapters, and once I reached his discussion of the variety of different wall plugs that exist in this world (which went on for PAGES), I'd had enough!
I can't say enough positive things about this book. Such intricate descriptions of such small things... you can savor it the way the French would want you to. It's a story of a beautiful life in a far away place-- but Gopnick tells it in a way that makes it so accessible (sometimes even ordinary) that he achieves an intimacy that I have not experienced in most books I've read. He also offers a social lens that is stimulating as well as enlightening. I purposefully took forever reading this book because I didn't want my trip to France to end!
A fun book that gives you a sense of living in Paris as an expat and what to appreciate about French culture. Narrated by the author so definitely recommend listening. Great read while on vacation in France. I loved many of the annecdotes were hilarious - eg the one about how the gym had no plan for visiting every day they only had a once a week plan. Or the one comparing the French fax error codes to French culture.
His arguments mostly stem from his own family's experiences and are naturally just small scenes from which he draws grand conclusions.
Like most other authors.However, his awareness of the political scene and the major infighting going on culturally speaks of a very sharp mind.
His essays have enough political analysis to show his intelligence, but then will transition into a colorful story about his son.
One essay is about Adam Gopnik and his wife's attempts to keep Barney out of his son's life, and it's absurd, but it makes its point.In other words, a lot of it is fanciful, but in a charming almost fin de siecle style that I just adore.
If you know anything about French culture, you'll laugh many times.
One of my very favorite reads of all time.
Adam Gopnik has a lovely way with words, specifically words that detail everyday, real life.
I have found very few writers who have such power to keep me enthralled no matter what the subject matter.
I had the privilege of hearing him lecture a few years back here in Chicago, his topic "The American Dream of Paris." His eloquence astounds me.
Hearing him speak only made me wish I could read the book over and over again and forget it each time, so that I would once again have the pleasure of that first read.
My husband and I decided to be appropriately literary on our last trip to Paris -- he took Hemingway, I took this book because I love travel memoirs.
The basic premise is that Gopnik, a writer for the New Yorker, flees to Paris with his family to save his young firstborn from the insidious influence of Barney the dinosaur.
It's well written, more complicated sentence structure than my usual vacation reading but engrossing.
It was a lovely accompaniment to a trip in which I think we learned a teeny bit more about the French, or at least about their obsession with reservations for lunch.
A very uneven book - some essays are excellent, heartfelt, incisive, clever - others are smug, condescending, boring - the book does not ultimately come together as a unified whole. And, in the end, I just don't entirely trust Gopnik - in some of his other New Yorker essays when he touches on subjects about which I have some in-depth knowledge (such as C.S. Lewis, Christianity etc.), I often find he leaps to unwarranted and seemingly pre-determined conclusions - and so I am skeptical (perhaps unfairly so) of some of his judgments and evaluations in Paris to the Moon.
What's refreshing about Gopnik's writing is that he realizes he's living a ridiculously privileged life where his only problem is keeping his favorite restaurant safe from being taken over by a mass corporation of restaurant buyers.
Paris to the Moon brings the reader into the lives of the Gopniks as you experience their everyday Parisian lifestyle and their fantasy lives by visiting them at Christmas time in French department stores, summertime swimming at the Ritz pool club, mingling at Parisian fashion shows, playing pinball at the local cafe, and riding the carousel at the Luxembourg Gardens.
Enjoyed this more and more as it went on. I've always like Gopnik, but early in this book, he seems overly fixated on sounding clever, which is unnecessary—he's naturally clever. As the book progresses, his tone is more relaxed and funny. Also, it begins as a series of (fairly disjointed) essays, but knits together nicely later when he spends more time on his family and personal experiences in Paris.
There's some valuable stuff in this book, but mostly it's a lot of New-Yorker-house-style pseudo-profundity from a writer who's not particularly aware of his own privilege.
What a priviledged crank.
His recent column in the New Yorker about eating locally makes me glad that he is aware of the effects of the world around him but he doesn't seem to appreciate so much of what he has.
He was involvement in the bistro takeover and the gym were the highlights of the book, with his difference as the American, but really were these the only times he actually did anything in Paris, other than go to the carousel with son and eat out?
I want the New Yorker to sponsor me to live in Florence for five years!
Gopnik spent five years living in Paris with his wife and his small son, writing articles for the New Yorker on life in Paris; this book collects many of those articles along with some of Gopnik's personal journals from that period. I found Paris to the Moon finely written and frequently witty, and I quite liked the mix of personal reminiscence and social and cultural commentary. Though I can see how those expecting a book about Paris might find that there's too much of the former, I thought it was nicely balanced.
An utterly boring scope of minute differences between New York and Paris life. A definite sleeper, unless you consider this author's writing to be witty, which I did not.
I have written alot about this previously so I will just try and summarize why one should read this book and why I give it 5 stars.
Along with the author, I hate Barney too - read the book and you will know what I am talking about.
The similarity between the French in Paris (which actually can be quite different from provincial French behavior) and the French speaking people of Belgium is amazing..
I could go on and on, but if you want to see life from another perspective, read this book.
On the cover of Paris to the Moon, Alain de Botton lauds the work as "the finest book on France in recent years," but of course he can't say why in the space of that sentence.
Paris to the Moon may be the finest expatriate book of recent years, and it's a worthy update of the American-moves-to-Paris trope of which Hemingway makes up the cornerstone.Adam Gopnik is a writer's writer, and a thinker's writer.
That's where Gopnik shines - pinning down the myriad ways in which issues which could face us all are handled differently by each culture.Take, for example, the hilarious bit about the magazine fact-checker.
Fun  is the magic American word (Our motto 'Let's have fun!' is met by the French motto 'Let's be amused!')""It is as if we were wishing that the rituals of sex, those moments of painful sizing up, which begin with the thought That's a nice dress, could pass by more consequentially, slowly- love walking down a runway instead of just meeting you outside the movie theater.""There is, I believe now, a force in stories, words in motion, that either drives them forward past things into feelings or doesn't.
Was there more pleasure to be found in sharing Cressida's company or in feeling the power that he held by making her suffer from his absence?
She used to tell me stories about their lives there that illuminated for me both the differences between my and Parisian culture and the beauty that she encountered there every day.
I expected this book about Adam Gopnik's experiences in Paris to be similar except, well better.
Perhaps Canada and France are more similar than are Canada and the States because where my sister was able to illustrate for me the cultural differences, the stories that Gopnik relates, to the same end, just left me shrugging my shoulders (hmmm, that is French isn’t it?).
It just didn’t hang together for me.
The uppercrusty stories were a little more grating; two essays, some 10% of the whole book, are about a group of people so offended by the new management at a classic brasserie that they form a secret society to protest and subvert the new owner's business plan.
However, his description of her reaction was one of my favorite quips of the whole book: Martina Hingis would not notice your backhand is off because Martina Hingis would not notice when your backhand is on.
Gopnik has so many great quips throughout the book, in fact, that even the essays I enjoyed least are entertaining.
After three weeks of slogging through this book, my first thought upon finishing it was I'm free.The writing is pretentious and the sentences go on for forever.
Sometimes a carousel is just a carousel and there is no need to wax poetically about what it symbolizes for all of mankind.This book had its moments.
Having been in Paris recently, it was nice to read a little more about the city I'd just visited.
I liked reading about the author's experience joining a gym, about the restaurant rebellion he took part in, about their experience having a baby in Paris.
I love, love, love adam gopnik's writing.
he can write about tying his shoes and make it sound like the most fascinating subject on earth.
this book is about his experience living in paris with his family, a city near and dear to my heart.
paris is the perfect subject for his writerly observations.
the chapter where he describes his wife's pregnancy and the interactions with the french medical system in contrast to new york (where they had their first child) is fascinating, hilarious and incredibly touching all at once.
if i could only have one book to read over and over again it would probably be this one.
I'm re-reading this love letter to Paris, a collection of essays by Adam Gopnik.
Never mind that he's lived my dream- pack it all in and go live and work in Paris.One of my favorite elements of the book is how strongly the feeling he has for his family permeates his writing.
Even an essay on a quest to save a beloved neighborhood bistro is tinged with the wonder he feels at being a dad and the protectiveness over the blissful little cloister he and his wife create for their family as Americans Abroad.
I just love this book.

While there were some clever bits in this book (like how the writer tried to go sign up for unlimited access to a gym and the Parisian gym owners did not even know how to respond--they had never heard of anyone wanting to go the gym everyday), the bulk of it felt like jumbled (and not all together interesting) leftovers from his New Yorker submissions. A good read when you just want a chapter at a time. While in chronological order, each chapter could stand alone. I finished it because I felt I had to....
I wanted to like it -an expat living in Paris raising his first child but ugh. Esoteric literary snobbery. Long winded. Exhausting. I skimmed a bunch.
I loved this book when I first read it about ten years ago. This time, not only was I murmuring, "Oh, lucky ducks, this family is in Paris," but I was also gushing, "Yes, yes, I went there, too!"
Gopnik is a wonderful writer, he still writes frequently for The New Yorker, and is always worth reading.Mostly the chapters could be read at random.
Gopnik at first has no luck at all finding anything like the gyms Americans frequent.Finally, someone suggested a newly opening "New York-style" gym, which I'll call the Regiment Rouge ...
were three or four fabulously chic young women in red tracksuits - the Regiment Rouge!
When I arrived the next day for my rendezvous, the professeur - another girl in a red tracksuit - was waiting for me ..."Aren't we going to demonstrate the system of the machines?" I asked."Ah, that is for the future.
