https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/711648.Raggedy_Ann_and_Andy_and_the_Camel_With_the_Wrinkled_Knees
This book gave me the most delightful nightmares when I was a child and I love to revisit it from time to time. When I have children they will have a full library of Gruelle original editions and I will comfort them gladly from the terrors that were the 1920's.
One of my favorite childhood books
Ella would give it a 3 star but I thought it was just okay.
My mother bought the Raggedy Ann and Andy book series for my younger sister as an enticement to read. I don't know if she ever did read them, since I kept them in my area of the room all the time. I loved my Raggedys and couldn't get enough of the gentle stories that Johnny Bruelle wrote. I wanted to believe that all my dolls and animals had a life of their own once the lights went out. These stories gave me hope.
Right alongside Slappy the Duck is this one! My two precious favorites complete with memories of swinging on the front porch nestled in my great-aunt's lap and snugged in a blanket while the cool evening air thickened and the fireflies danced and the moon rose in the sky until eventually long after the story had ended, I was carried off to bed. So you see -- books truly are life -- read to your child, read to the child you are or were.
Raggedy Ann, Andy, and the Camel are off to find their friend, Babette. They were looking for it and stumbled upon more friends who were going to help them. Eventually, the ran into some pirates who captured Babette. This was a good lesson for kids to understand. Go looking for your friends, no matter what!
The Raggedys set out to save poor Babette, the French doll, who, in the book's one scary episode, is stolen from home. The Camel and the Tired Old Horse are charming companions, and the cast of characters--a genuine fairy, Granny (a spider), Loonies, cross-dressing pirates, and others--is pretty choice.
I have the 1924 version of this book that was my dad's. It was one of m yfavorite books as a kid, and I reread it recently. What a delight. Absurd, trippy, imaginative. Although I'd forgotten the plot, I remembered well the wonderful illustrations. The Loonies, the pirates and their jumping ship. The witch. Five stars and more!
This is a part of the "My First Raggedy Ann" series. I'm not familiar with the original stories, but these must be shortened. I feel like there is something missing from the story. The illustrations are fun.
I checked this out from the Library and read it to my kids, I loved it so much (they did too)! I want to buy it, I'll have to keep it safe till my kids are out of the "lets rip up and destroy all the really cool pop-up books in the house" phase.
It was cute and I loved the idea of two stuffed dolls going on an adventure. My mind could not get around the constant references to Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy by their full names. It was tongue twister in my mouth and in my head. I had to stop. The illustrations were gorgeous.
This is a favorite from childhood that I found on the internet but what makes it even better is that it is a pop-up chapter book.
Read as a kid.
Even though this is a "book for kids", it's very funny! The illustrations are beautiful.
This Raggedy Ann and Andy story is creative but I think the illustrations by Jan Palmer are not as good as the illustrations by Kathryn Mitter or Simon Galkin.
Bought at a neighbor's yard sale when I was very small, this one is c. 1924 and features the abduction of the French doll. Many Oz-like bits.
This is a delightful story that was later made into the animated classic. I loved this when I read it for myself and later for my kids.
These books were so... I'm looking for the right word, but "trippy" is coming to mind. They were odd, and strange, and delightful simultaneously.
all i can remember about this book series is that i liked the way the old books smelled and there was a not-very-nice french doll in it...
Probably not the right book but I wanted one with a real cover. We had one of these books when I was a kid. It was probably pretty old. The illustrations were kind of scary. Date is approximate.
I liked these strange dolls as a child. And their books, and the TV shows, and the dolls...
