https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12513614-captive-in-the-dark
Warning: this review is not censored.There are some people who view the line between consent and non-consent, between sex and rape, as blurry.
No sex with those who are not in a position to give consent which, in case you were wondering, includes the mentally unstable, children and animals.This book isn't a love story.This book is about a rape victim and a rapist.This book is not sexy.This book is not BDSM.This book is not okay.This book is abuse.This book makes Fifty Shades of Grey look like My Little Pony.This book makes Story of O look romantic.This book is rape.
IF the second book claims he's working on the HEA with Livvie, it's the author's attempts to humanize him...but in all honesty - that's also what serial rapists/killers do in testimony to their crimes; they masquerade as a human being.There's no story here.
It's a wall of text, and gives me the vision of a LARP(Live Action Roleplay), with someone taking notes/giving driving directions(I feel as if I'm fucking reading a treasure map; walk two steps to the left, go behind the tree and passed the barrel of STFU)...or ironically, it does remind me of being a Captive In the Dark, because it's so one-on-one, the 'story' so barely-there, that to add flare or scene switches would threaten the reader's sensibilities to stop and reflect on what the author has designed to sympathize the most profoundly depraved of humanity.
I was compelled to carry on and horrified to find myself empathising with Caleb.There's an incredible darkness to him but somewhere in there, there's a hint of light and Olivia, despite what she endures, starts to see this.
I can't be sure.Still, deeply disturbed and captivated.Second Edit: On reflection, I've upped my rating to 5 stars because more than a week has passed and this novel is still with me.For more of my reviews, please visit my Sinfully Sexy Book Blog
I'm very stingy with five stars.
I usually only give those to modern classics or books that I am absaloutely cray cray about.
Here is why I think CID deserves five:1.
Holy bravery.
To take on this subject matter, and then to manipulate your audience into making them like the bad guy takes talent and a steele pair.
2. The writing was very good.
5. The dialogue was great.
Truely, it is not easy to write believable dialogue.
I am disturbed, not over the subject matter but by the fact that none of it bothered me.
As part of a complex revenge scheme twelve years in the making, he abducts her with the intent of training her as a pleasure slave and selling her into slavery to the man he is trying to take down.When Livie wakes from a drug-enduced sleep to find herself captive, her worse nightmare is coming true.
I kept alternating between almost thinking I was starting to fall for him, then he would do something that just totally fucked with my mind and, just like Livie, I just had NO clue what to feel.
The work is written from the view point of the abuser and therefore entices the reader to sympathize.I did not set out to 'romanticize' the slave trade.
Instead, I present my readers with characters.
I think people would be surprised by how many messages I receive from people who have suffered abuse, thanking me for writing this type of work.
The sexual fantasies of former abuse victims is not something always understood by mainstream society.
Additionally, I think some would also be surprised by how many readers HAD NO IDEA the sexual slave trade exists.
This book was just........What I mean is that in some moments I was likeand then like thisLivvie/Olivia/KittenOlivia is an other fucked-up book character with a very bad luck.She grew up without love but with her mother's hate.Livvie was the girl that would never cause any trouble and would never provoke the opposite sex.She was strong and destroyed.She needed someone to love her .She was just seeking comfort.Caleb[image error]Fucked-up as well but he never showed weakness (view spoiler)[except from the end.
So in all honesty, I did this crapfest a favor.Because this book makes me think in sentence fragments, I'll make a list of reasons that readers like me may want to skip over this book and read something, ANYTHING instead.
A Brief SummaryFucking evil fucking douchebag Caleb kidnaps high school student Livvie and locks her up so he can mentally break her, torture her, rape her, and eventually SELL HER AS A SEX SLAVE to some undeveloped, shadowy villain.
The reason won't give you any comfort.Caleb wants to have revenge on ONE FUCKING GUY.
No one wants to end up a sex slave like Livvie.
Caleb and Livvie are not real people.
Review posted February 10, 2013.   Buddy read with Jo and Lisa. Thanks, ladies. I never thought I'd be reading CitD in the first place, and I'm very sorry that I read it. It's safe to say the experiment failed big time. And I feel kinda glad and relieved that I didn't like it. For what's it worth, I've had an interesting discussion on my update threads even though I hated Caleb & the book.Since it's entirely my bad that I considered giving this book a try I will refrain from rating it. Anyw
It was very obvious that Livvie felt attracted to Caleb due to his physical attributes and it helped to develop Stockholm's.There's no getting round it to wonder how real victims of slavery/human trafficking would feel after reading this series.
Yeah, good Livvie has never had sex before and then he rapes her (even though she said "no", you'd almost think it's "not rape" when she "needs it to feel good" and she "can't prevent" it anyway), she takes him up her ass and comes several fu@@ing times!
Absolutely captivating.
It's a very dark, rich story, and the character development is outstanding.
Caleb is NOT a "good guy," but the way Roberts moves between Caleb's third person POV, Livvie's first person POV, and flashback POVs of both characters is brilliant and makes you understand how they (especially Caleb) have gotten to be who they are and why they act the way they do.
I was enthralled by the characters and the story in a way I haven't been in a long while and I devoured it in three hours.
I cannot WAIT for part two to be released.
4.5 Beautifully disturbing stars...This book, if nothing else, makes you honestly and completely 'FEEL'-- horror, disgust, pity, anger, lust, shame, hatred, love--whichever emotion it ignites in you, I promise, you'll feel it to the millionth degree!
But the fact is, no other book has ever evoked such an array of gut-wrenching emotions or left me feeling almost violated just for having read it quite like this one has.
But Caleb didn't plan on feeling things for Livvie he never thought he was capable of feeling.
However, I saw the story for what it was and did not need to fall in love with Caleb to appreciate it.
WOW WOW WOW WOW...just, WOW. Speechless... that's how I felt after reading this story...It's dark, twisted and disturbing on so many levels but still I could NOT stop reading it!!! At times I really hated reading some of the things that happened, but the story was so addictive and intense that I couldn't help but love, love, love it!!!  "He was the monster no one thought to look for in the light of day. It was a common mistake. People often believed they were safer in the light, thinking monster
The young boy has to suffer through a lot of horrible experiences because of this man and that is why Caleb decides to take revenge on the person who ruined his life.
To succeed in his plan of revenge he wants to use Olivia, train her as a pleasure slave and sell her to Demitri to get as close as possible to his biggest enemy.
So, as I started reading this, I thought to myself: "How could I possibly "enjoy" reading a story like this?
And after reading the first chapter of Seduced In The Dark, I already have even more questions...(view spoiler)[Caleb can't be dead, right???
He was the monster that no one thought to look for in the light of day..... And she....  She was the instrument of his revenge,His way of reaching his mark.His Kitten,His captive in the dark.  Like a falcon,she needed the dark to understand who her master was.----------------------------------------------------------Caleb --He was kidnapped very young and sold to slavery.He had to face things which will make hardened men shudder.But he was a survivor.Somehow he survived till he was rescued.And
Like a falcon,she needed the dark to understand who her master was.----------------------------------------------------------Caleb --He was kidnapped very young and sold to slavery.He had to face things which will make hardened men shudder.But he was a survivor.Somehow he survived till he was rescued.And after that,he dedicated his life to vengeance.Now,to be completely fair.....I was not expecting a Prince Charming.And neither did I get one."You're not a damsel in distress and I'm not the handsome prince come to save you."I was not expecting kindness or any other soft feelings in Caleb.They had long been beaten and raped out of him.But that does not mean that I condone what he did.Blind in his lust for vengeance,he was doing exactly what was done to him years ago......There was only one obstacle remaining between him and vengeance.The last true test of his soullessness--willfully stripping someone of their freedom.But,what I liked was that somehow,by passing the last test of soullessness,he got something resembling his soul back.Livvie --There were many reasons for her being chosen.Poor,beautiful,submissive,...and a survivor.So she became Kitten.But this Kitten had claws."I hate you!" I roared.
Whatever your little school-girl brain told you about men is absurdly wrong. This isn’t a romance. You’re not a damsel in distress and I’m not the handsome prince come to save you. You ran. I went to collect my property. End of story. CalebWow!! This was a Very Wicked Tasty Treat!! Sexy, Dark, and Erotic!! He didn’t feel guilt very often and she seemed to have an uncanny ability to bring it out of him. The feeling was…alien, unpleasant, and aggravating as hell. Unfortunately, Caleb is the bad g
Unfortunately, Caleb is the bad guy in this love story.
She is beautiful and shy and he intends to abduct her.This book isn't all black and white.
I loved the alternating points of view from Caleb and from his Pet, Kitten.
Kitten has been abducted by the most beautiful thing she has ever seen.
Unfortunately, Caleb comes across a little insane, as he struggles with an internal battle.
She was also beautiful enough to tempt men, but young and shy enough that she tried to hide it in order to avoid unwanted attention.I can only recommend this book to lovers of Dark Erotica.
This book is darker than you believe...It is more emotional than any book I have read and made me feel things I didn't even know I could feel...It made me look at things differently..Caleb spent half his life in the pursuit of revenge.Revenge against what others have done to him..He is a beautiful,broken man who has survived by the only way he knows..Putting up walls,following orders and shutting off the emotions.
He sees in Livvie a part of him...Looking for someone to love and belong to..I feel for him when he realizes that Livvie and him are captive with no way out....Olivia finds herself in the sexual chemistry between her and Caleb..
Adult review for dark/taboo erotic content  He was my tormentor and my solace, the creator of the dark and the light within.  Livvie has been taken for reasons she doesn't understand. She is held and tortured in a dark room, given little to no information other than being told to obey if she wants to avoid further punishment. She is stripped bare to her very soul, left with nothing to cling to except for the shred of mercy that her abusive captor seems to display in very brief flashes.  I needed
If you pick up Captive in the Dark and find yourself disgusted enough to want to write a ranty review about how wrong everything is, you are probably missing the point of the book.
What this book is :ScaryDisturbingThought-provokingSensual in parts (whether or not you want to comply with where it goes)What this book made me feel :SadnessFrustrationConfusionWorry that I might want something I shouldn'tAre we allowed to root for Caleb and Livvie as a couple if this situation is completely wrong?That's the beauty of books.
Maybe you want to see Caleb and Livvie find understanding in each other.
FREE on Amazon US today (8/31/2015)OMG! This is a book on my re-read shelf. I read it in 2012 before GR and my reading has since evolved. Very dark, but right up my alley these days….. Book 1 of 2.5. Series complete.BLURB:Caleb is a man with a singular interest in revenge. Kidnapped as a young boy and sold into slavery by a power-hungry mobster, he has thought of nothing but vengeance. For twelve years he has immersed himself in the world of pleasure slaves searching for the one man he holds ul
If Caleb is to get close enough to strike, he must become the very thing he abhors and kidnap a beautiful girl to train her to be all that he once was.Eighteen-year-old Olivia Ruiz has just woken up in a strange place.
Olivia is young, beautiful, naïve and willful to a fault.
Although she is frightened by the strong, sadistic, and arrogant man who holds her prisoner, what keeps Olivia awake in the dark is her unwelcome attraction to him.http://www.amazon.com/Captive-Dark-Du...FREEBIES are often good for MORE than one day, I have gathered all my FREEBIES on a special shelf: Kindle-freebies (currently over 470 books)https://www.goodreads.com/review/list...
“This isn't a romance. You're not a damsel in distress,and I'm not the handsome prince come to save you.” If you are looking for a good girl/ bad boy romance, this book is not for you; you've been warned. So please don't try to pin this on me if you ended up not enjoying it. I am not recommending this to anyone, read at your own risk. Here, i'm admitting it, this book is downright fucked up. First of all, you need to decide if you want to look at it as Olivia's story or Caleb's story. It's writ
If you are looking for a good girl/ bad boy romance, this book is not for you; you've been warned.
First of all, you need to decide if you want to look at it as Olivia's story or Caleb's story.
Keep in mind, this is the girl who's family doesn't even love her, she never had many friends, her life hadn't even started before she got sucked into Caleb's lala land.
She starts feeling a connection with Caleb, and that was the saddest part of the story!
You are going through everything with her, at this point the book starts to mess with your mind.
"While I slept, he had made himself the master of my fate, and I could do nothing but allow it."  Holy smokes! What have I just read?My reactions throughout the book:Captive in the Dark surprised me to no end! It's one of those books that can make me pause for a while, contemplate and question myself if I'm still normal? Because it's the kind of book that I shouldn't love, but I did. It's dark, twisted, and full of fuckeries, and yet... I love it! This book is not your typical romance book. It'
Until he met the innocent and fragile Olivia, the perfect prospect for a sex slave, and things began to take place.This book is quite disturbing but there's something powerful about it that captivated me from the first page up to the last.
All throughout the book I basically wanted to read more and find out what made him do things like what he did to Olivia and what made him become a monster.
I also love the romance in this book.
Okay. I need to breathe for a second. Sort out my thoughts. Try and figure out what to make of this jumble of emotions I am feeling right now... 5 Stars. It was sadistic.... it was traumatizing.... it was down right painful to read... But god, I loved it. Damn it all, I freakin loved this book. My first thought after finishing up this gripping story: Is there something seriously wrong with me? Why would I actually enjoy reading this book? Why do I think this is now going straight to my "favorite
He knew that this girl, Livvie, or as he likes to call her "Kitten" would be perfect for his needs.
When she just can't take any more- she lashes out becoming more like a lion than the "kitten" name her captive has given her.It would seem as if Livvie can't be broken- yet that's exactly what Caleb needs from her.
Will she be what Caleb needs her to be?Kitten and the Dog...
There are times where Caleb does things to her that just make you want to jump into this book and strangle is psychotic ass...
There were times I felt like I was Livvie...
Caleb’s side of things being told in the 3rd person was perfect, because he is not the kind of guy that’s going to bear his soul for me, and I got to learn all about his heartbreaking past.I didn’t start out liking the hero at all, I wasn’t suppose to giving the circumstances.
The story / plot was excellent, there were times I was holding my breath and didn’t realize it until I exhaled.
If you are thinking of reading this book, open your mind, and prepare yourself to go on a very dark journey.
And he was somewhere in the house fucking some whore's brains out.' -Inner thoughts of Livvie in Captive in the DarkThis book rocked ALL FIVE STARS!
The thing is Livvie is a fighter and as long as there is a breath in her body she will fight.
I loved Livvie i felt everything she felt...
I loved Caleb tho.
When these unknown feelings began to creep into his system for Livvie i knew it was over.
And once he could admit to himself thet what he was feeling for Livvie was love....
Lemme tell you, so you can decide whether you want to read it or not.(view spoiler)[It's about a girl who was stalked, taken agains her will, beaten, humiliated, dickmatized, raped, all of that for one great purpose--to be sold as a sex slave.
There is no real story, no development, nobody gets wiser or a better person (view spoiler)[(but some come out raped, you know) (hide spoiler)].You know what?
I intend to buy a paperback copy of this book, just so that I can immediately recycle it and make this world a better place.
I had my eyes wide open, not wanting to miss a word; but dreading what was to come every step of the way.My heart was in my throat, butterflies in my stomach and feeling extreme anxiety through every scene featuring Caleb and Olivia.
From what I felt through Olivia’s POV, Caleb was a cold, heartless and selfish man that only looked out for his own desires of revenge.
I felt sickened at times when Caleb was turned on by Olivia’s sorrow and pain.
(view spoiler)[The heart wrenching fear I felt after Olivia pulled the gun on Caleb and escaped...it was terrifying.
5 stars  “If only I’d never laid eyes on you, never met you…”  Everything about this just played with your emotions, you feel things you don’t know if you should be feeling, and you start to justify the actions to make it "right" in your head, completely fucking with your mind. It is a dark read, but I honestly don’t think it’s as dark as others out there.*****************************************************All Caleb want’s is to finally rid himself of the debt owed to the one who saved him. Tog
Caleb faces inner-struggle, he knows what he needs to do, but there is something about his Kitten that brings a different side to him, making him feel .
Livvie is as confused as Caleb, she knows she shouldn’t trust him, she knows she shouldn’t want him … but she can’t help herself
Livvie faces some inner demons herself, coming to terms with her actions, she knows that no matter how long she has with Caleb, he won’t let anything harm her, he would punish her, but never destroy her spirit
”For the first time in recent memory, Caleb wanted something other than revenge.
A ver cómo explico lo que me ha pasado con este libro, que me gusta y me disgusta a la vez.
Me gusta por lo bien narradas que están las emociones por las que pasa la protagonista y cómo logra hacernos entrar en su cabeza y sentir lo que le ha tocado vivir.
Me disgusta, no por el tema que trata, que es fuerte, si no por cómo lo trata, de forma algo superficial (lo siento, pero no me ha parecido tan perturbador como he leído por ahí) y destinado a que entendamos/nos enamoremos del protagonista, un ser dañado que se dedica a la trata de blancas y que en cualquier otro tipo de historia sería mucho más odioso y brutal con la protagonista.
#RetoIntimo2018 -1#CampañaRomantica: Protagonista con heridas físicas
First of all I want to thank all of my Goodreads friends for giving me the courage to finish this book.
But I read on and found that I actually liked it.
I feel so weird for saying I liked the book.
It doesn't feel rigth saying i liked it but here I am.
It is one you really have to be prepared to read and know what you are getting yourself into.
I also want to thank my buddy readers for sticking it out.
If you decide to read this book be prepared it is not for everyone.
Sí, está muy bien escrito ¿Es repugnante?
Estuve a punto de abandonarlo en varias oportunidades.Iniciando la segunda mitad, el libro da un giro de 180° grados, pues después de habernos tenido aguantando la interacción de sus dos personajes principales casi en forma exclusiva, la historia se abre a una serie de acontecimientos donde entran en juego más personajes y mucha acción y… mucha violencia.Si hay un personaje destacable es Livvie… el proceso de autoconocimiento de la protagonista durante todo este proceso es notable y su actuar no me ha defraudado en ningún momento.
Jeez, I don't even know where to place my thoughts.Good God. Ok, hang on, let me think about this...
My fingers were painfully tightly crossed that he was going to turn around and say 'Ok Livvie, let's run off into the sunset and forget this whole crazy idea.' But no...
Fucking mutual indeed.This book had my heart hammering from my chest and my feet stamping of their own accord as I lived through the whole thing with Olivia.
And now, I need to dive straight into Seduced in the Dark because I can not, for the life of me, imagine how this is going to end...!
5 Love-Hate Caleb STARS  “People often believed they were safer in the light, thinking monsters only came out at night.”    Si odias este libro, que bien, se lo merece. De echo creo que la autora deseaba que eso pasara, que odiáramos tanto esta historia que quisiéramos tirarla por la ventana. La historia y personajes retratan una realidad cruel he injusta de nuestro mundo. Y que nadie parece poner atención. El trafico de personas.Bravo a C. J. Roberts por tocar este tema. Yo leí este libro hace
Yo releo esta historia, para recordarme lo agradecida que debo estar por tener una vida simple y aburrida, a veces se nos olvida que la vida que llevamos es tan maravillosa por su simpleza, que miles de personas en el mundo no tienen ese mismo lujo.
Creo que desde la publicación de este libro todo el género tomo ese rumbo.
Piensen en cualquier libro de dark romance contemporáneo que hayan leído, todos las historias sobre secuestro, sobre síndrome de Estocolmo, sadomasoquismo, mafia.
Es difícil porque nos muestra una historia de abuso desde la mente del abusador y que además también fue víctima.
