https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20912424-the-war-that-saved-my-life
So when I read The War That Saved My Life I had to explain to her, at length, that in spite of the premise, cover (again with the kids staring out into nothingness), and time period this isn’t the bleak stretch of depressingness it might appear to be.
Enormously satisfying and fun to read, Bradley takes a work of historical fiction and gives the whole premise of WWII evacuees a kick in the pants.
As an author, Bradley has the unenviable job of making a character like Ada realistic, suffering real post-traumatic stress in the midst of a war, and then in time realistically stronger.
I am a 10 year old girl and I read this for school. I loved it so much and I hope there is a sequel. If there is another book I will definitely read it and I would recommend this book to everyone that likes books about not giving up!!! Happy reading!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Rating: one million stars ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
I am a 10 year old girl and I read this for school. I loved it so much and I hope there is a sequel. If there is another book I will definitely read it and I would recommend this book to everyone that likes books about not giving up!!! Happy reading!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Rating: one million stars ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
I know it seems like I’ve been tremendously lucky lately, what with all the four-star-ratings I’ve been giving, but it’s only because—and I’ve done this for the whole month of March—anytime a book bores me, I put it aside and never get back to it.
It’s such a wonderful book that calls to your emotional side.
It’s true that the war saves Ada’s life, in a way, but the main focus of this story is the interactions between Ada, Jamie and their new guardian as well as Ada’s confidence and freedom growth.
I loved the visual writing and the copious amounts of scones (!!!) and the adorable protagonist, Ada. British books though.
I read a ton of WWII books in my Youthful Days (like, um, 10 years ago but whatever) and this honestly just followed the same formulas.
The middle bordered on boring, honestly, and while I liked the aesthetics of the country lifestyle and the kids learning to be loved and all the horses and scones...not much actually happened apart from that???
She suffers with bouts of depression and the three form a family bond that helps them all move forward in life and deal with suffering.The ironic title of this book refers not only to the physical war, but the internal and daily battles faced by the characters.
This is just one element in Kimberly Brubaker Bradley's impressive writing that makes this book unforgettable.*spoiler* I want to use this book for book club next fall so the following is more detailed than usual so I'll remember my first impressions.Daily life is filled with peace and joy and battles and wars.
At the end when Susan tells Ada and Jaimie that they saved her life, the story has come full circle.Both children have fears.
"I don't want to tell you a lie, and I don't know the truth."It was maybe the most honest thing anyone had ever said to me.
Man this book really packed in the feels!
There were moments where I felt like I had been punched with emotion!The War That Saved My Life is about Ada, a young girl with a deformed foot whose mother kept her inside all her life.
“I wanted to say a lot of things, but, as usual, I didn't have the words for the thoughts inside my head.”  Loved this story, so so much!
Not bad for a middle grade novel. Not bad at all. A beautiful and heartwarming story about overcoming emotional and physical abuse, and learning to accept unconditional love from yourself and from others. Takes place during World War II in London. This novel doesn't pull punches or try to sugar coat the harshness of life. "The War That Saved My Life" will tug at your heartstrings, and reaffirm your faith in the kindness of strangers. Enjoy!
Every one of my friends who has just come out of the woodwork to say how much they love this book is DEAD TO ME.Why?Because I literally do not remember one of them telling me that I MUST READ THIS IMMEDIATELY, and they should have.
I remember there being "no surprise" when it was named as an honor book.
So I dutifully bought it, read the first page, thought, UGH, HOW HORRIBLE!
I shan't go on because, well, you need to read it for yourself (if you haven't already).This, my friends, is a beautiful book.
“'You did a good job taking care of Jamie,' Susan said. 'But it was a big job, and you shouldn’t have had to do it. So now you can relax. I can take care of you. You don’t have to fight so hard.'”Argh! I think I'm crying. Yup. What a wonderful, emotional, thought-provoking book, and written for middle schoolers! Lately I've realized that what I appreciate most in a book is when the author gives the reader some credit, and doesn't dump emotions all over the page or over explain writing technique
Especially with books written for a younger audience, does the author have to take care to strike the perfect balance of trust and respect.
She let me make my own deductions about Ada, Jaime, Susan, and even the hateful "Mam." There was some content that was hard to read about, like physical and emotional child abuse, WWII in England and its effect on the population, and overall the internal struggles that Ada had to get through as a result of her abusive background.
And it was mostly because I didn't feel like the characters rang true.
I really do like "horse" books!
Pelo menos eu já fiz um vídeo grandinho sobre esse livro onde eu consegui dizer muita coisa do que eu senti fazendo essa suficiente.
Eu confesso pra vocês, sendo 100% sincero, mesmo tendo trabalho junto da Darkside para a divulgação desse livro, que eu terminei a leitura orfão.
Eu queria que esse livro fosse maior!
Eu conseguia enxergar esses personagens, a casa da Susan, os animais que ela descreve...
Ela se torna uma demôniazinha orgulhosa, mas é tão natural.
Fazer essa leitura pelo ponto de vista dela foi tão realista que nem sei....
eu só queria abraçar e brigar com ela o tempo todo!
This is a story about Ada and her brother James.
Ada's mother is a horrid woman that hates her bc she was born with a clubfoot.
Calls Ada simple, cripple, worthless.
World War 2 starts in England and as the kids evacuate London to go the country Ada escapes also.
James and Ada live with Susan Smith.
Seems mean at first but loves and cares for the kids slowly.Such a good read.
I liked that the story is about a girls will to fight for her happiness.
I liked that WWII in this story had little focus on Nazi's and Jews.
kind of read.
Okay, this has been done before and has lots of stock characters--the disabled/abused child who gets away from a bad situation and blossoms, the adorable younger sibling who needs to be protected, the unlikely guardian who doesn't want them, but learns to love them.Yet it's fresh and new and I stayed up till well past my bedtime reading it, and I DIDN'T WANT IT TO BE OVER. In other words, it's really, really good and I thank Edelweiss for my digital ARC.
The War that saved my life was absolutely breathtaking and one of the best books I've ever read!While reading this book, I felt so submerged into all characters that it was hard to remember I was not Ada or Susan.
Sometimes I was Susan, who was a melancholic soul and didn't want anyone in her life, for she was completely absorbed by sorrow of her loss and sometimes I was Ada, a ten years old little girl, who was fighting her own battle against all odd, personal insecurities and abominations of her mom.
One of the finest middle school novels I've read in quite a while.
We are treated to an intense and involving reading experience guided by a strong narrator/heroine in the person of evacuee Ada Smith.
Bradley does a particularly wonderful job of integrating vivid historic detail and emotionally believable situations.
This is a fine novel and reminiscent of another emotionally wrenching tale of another WWII evacuee--Goodnight Mister Tom. It has the bittersweet, British homefront intensity of Mrs. Miniver and some of the drama of Foyle's War. Put this #1 on your 2015 list of must reads.
Ada discovers there are worse things than bombs after she escapes her Mam’s cruelty during a children’s evacuation of World War II London.Crippled by an untreated clubfoot and imprisoned at home by Mam, Ada has survived, but she hasn’t thrived.
Only caring for her brother, Jamie, has made life tolerable.
Yet Susan’s care is life-changing.
With Susan’s help and the therapeutic freedom she feels on horseback, Ada begins to work through a minefield of memories but still harbors hope that Mam will accept her.
I can't get over how much I loved the characters in this WWII English home front story.
It was fascinating to me to read a book about one sibling being horribly abused by her mother while her younger sibling was treated fairly regularly.
Ms. Baker shows how these characters grow and change during the time they're together, developing a relationship that turns out to be a lifesaver, despite it happening in the middle of a war.
Highly recommended for readers who love characters they can root for or readers looking for solid historical fiction, particularly World War II stories.
Not only do she and her brother get away from their abusive mother, but they have the good luck to be billeted with Susan Smith, a grieving spinster lady who is estranged from her family.
Miss Smith is living in the home that was willed to her by her good friend.
She is not keeping up with the care of the horse that was also left to her and this is where Ada fits in.
This is a middle school story, a good intro to the early events on the home front in Britain during WWII.
Our protagonist here, Ada, is not just horribly abused, but also crippled due to her mother's neglect, and she has a brother.
It read like a textbook for aspiring social workers, focusing on the need for endless patience and kindness when dealing with abused children.
The story picked up a little steam in the last fifty pages, with more action and the requisite heart-touching happy ending, but it still felt, to me, too much focused on “this is how a damaged child responds to things.” I'm giving this three stars, not because I “like” it, but because it is an adequate historical fiction story for the intended age group.
I just think it wasn't really for me?
I did REALLYYY enjoy it, and I'll probably read the second book, because this was well-written, and it had a fantastic cast of characters, and it was sincere and honest (even though it was secular and I didn't agree with ALL of it), and I REALLY SHOULD HAVE ENJOYED IT MORE.
the plot.
In my opinion, the plot sagged a little.
There wasn't a whole lot going on in here.
The book was slooow-moooviiing and I found it super easy to put down.
xP) So I'd probably recommend this to ages 12-13+.
One of the best historical fiction books for this age range I've ever read (listened to). Narrator was fantastic, characters were perfectly done, and the pacing was on point. An incredible story of a brother and sister during WWII. Will make my Best Books of 2015 list for sure.
Sometimes a book proves so breathtakingly beautiful and poignant that words fail; that would be The War That Saved My Life.
Author Kimberly Brubaker Bradley has crafted an unforgettable coming-of-age novel that launches at the cusp of the beginning of the Second World War. Ada Smith — so neglected that she doesn’t really know her age nor her birthday — has been kept in a one-room flat over a pub her entire life.
Ada doesn’t know anything about their father other than some misty memories.
I cannot recommend this novel highly enough.
É uma história linda, triste, cheia de inocência, descobertas e superações. Situada na Segunda Guerra Mundial, o livro é narrado pela Ada, uma garota que, aos dez anos, nunca tinha saído de casa porque a mãe a proibia. Com a chegada da Guerra, ela vê a oportunidade de fugir com o irmão e se livrar dos maus tratos. Um mundo completamente novo se abre pra ela, que agora precisa usar toda a força e a determinação pra conseguir se manter viva. Mais um da série "livros que deixam seu coração quentinho". <3
Esse livro é daqueles que aperta o nosso coração, mas que mesmo assim não conseguimos parar de ler, sabe?Gravei um vídeo sobre ele: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KveYf...E fiz um post no blog: http://melinasouza.com/2017/03/22/a-g...A edição brasileira está maravilhosa *-*
It made me appreciate my loving mother and father in a way I need to do more often.
But then, when Ada escapes with Jamie, it gets a little bit happier.
But both siblings definitely have trials to overcome - especially Ada. Oh my goodness.
I just loved the characters!I hated Ada and Jamie's Mam. I LOVED Susan.
I didn't like Jamie very much.
I liked reading about all the secondary characters - Fred, Maggie, Maggie's mother, etc.
I especially liked Fred, though.
:(The book ended happily, although I won't spoil it.
:) I loved this book.
4.5*Terminei esta leitura no mês passado e ao contrário de muitas outras leituras esta estória ainda permanece muito viva na minha memória...Poderá uma guerra salvar a vida de alguém? Para Ada e o irmão a guerra foi um acontecimento essencial para as suas curtas vidas...Gostei bastante...Opinião completa em breve... ;)
As someone said to me about Bradley's novel, "I reread this book when I want to remember how amazing people can be, when I need strength and inspiration". She's right. I loved it. Read it.
There are things I wish had had more detail or nuance, such as the class issues or what Ada's friend Stephen's very different experience meant to him, but those are tiny nits among a sea of praise.I loved the way the author showed the different ways the trauma of their life in London affected both Ada and her brother Jamie, and I loved the way she set up this idyllic country life and then slowly dismantled it with the increasingly present war.
Also, bless a book aimed at preteens that doesn't sugarcoat the cruelty that can be part of a birth family, and doesn't suggest all relationships - blood or not - can or should be saved.
Books like this one for children, ones about just being a kid and living life, don't come around too much anymore. I was really surprised by just how inspirational and creative The War that Saved My Life was, and I could see it going down as one of the more popular books out there for younger readers.
It is a book that shows a different side to the war, and will hopefully become a much-loved classic in years to come.’Book MuseThere is much to like here—Ada’s engaging voice, the vivid setting, the humor, the heartbreak, but most of all the tenacious will to survive.School Library Journal A beautifully written and very moving book, bound to be an instant classic …A beautiful story of hope and family.BooktopiaAbsolutely breathtaking…An incredibly emotional and poignant read…[It] will stay with you long after the final page is turned.
The book's translation that saved my life. I was trying to read this book in the original and I thought it would be easy, after all, it's a book written for children, right? Well, I failed! The book's language is very difficult for a foreigner that is learning English by herself. So, I bought this book translated into my own language (Portuguese) in amazon.com.br and I got it read in a few hours. What happiness! I loved the book. Now, I'll read the second book "The war I finally won" in Portuguese too.
