https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8755785-city-of-heavenly-fire
If I hadn't given up on Shadowhunter books I might be tempted to pick up the next series because the new characters are kind of adorable, but I think for now I'm done with the Shadowhunter world...............................Me when I found out the release date:Just finished City of Lost Souls and now I have to wait 2 more YEARS before I can read this book!
I mean who wouldn't want to read a book called City of Heavenly Fire?On another note...if Magnus and Alec don't get back together someone is going to get hurt because they are awesome together!I just thought of something...what if the world ends before this book comes out?
I used to think it made me strong to refuse to delete reviews even when the abuse in the comments endured and endured, but after three fucking years of verbal attacks due to this review I just can't be bothered with it anymore.
I was an OG fan of this series; I loved the first trilogy.
Not to sound like Hipster Mermaid, but I was a fan of this before most of the spoiled children who were attacking me had even heard of it.
I was thinking up until the last 200 pages that this was definitely going to be a 3 star read, but that ending completely changed my mind. It really made up for the first chunk of the book.
This book was PHENOMENAL.
I finished it in under 24 hours because I literally COULD NOT put it down.
Cassandra Clare concluded such an amazing series in such a beautiful way.
I didn't think it was possible to cry more happy tears than sad tears when finishing off your absolute favorite series, but somehow, this novel was too amazing for me to dwell in the few sad parts and forced me to embrace all it had to offer.
If you want to check out my book talk (which does include spoilers) here it is: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rjV9c...
*UPDATE* REVIEW TO COME SOON *UPDATE* OMG COVER COVER COVER. COOOOOOOVER!!!! THAT COVER. Clary's friggin wearing white and I CANNOT. What do you guys think? Personally I think it's beautiful. After you get over the fact that Clary's wearing white. And it's Clastian. OK OK OK. WRITE OBSESSIVE FANGIRLY REVIEW MODE. ON. 2000 FRIGGIN 14 EH!?!?!?!!?!?! MUST YOU KILL ME CASSIE. MUSSSST YOUUUU!???? WHYYYYYYY!??????????BUT WE ALL KNOW...INSIDE...I'M JUST...THAT DOESN'T EVEN BEGIN TO COVER HOW I FEEL. BUT IT SHOULD DO FOR NOW. O_O
I guess with a book series as large as this one it would be hard, if not impossible, to address everything.
Few books have managed to touch me this way; last time was Clockwork Princess, and I swear, it took me months to even consider picking up a new book to read.
(hide spoiler)]Essentially, The Mortal Instruments is a story about bravery and sacrifice and friendship, and encircling all of these, is love and compassion.
Jem's love for, and determination to save the last of the Herondale family, undid me.
Maybe Cassie will even consider writing a short story of Tessa and Jace's talk about the Herondale family?
I don't want to read about Clary and Jace and Company anymore because they've had six looong books already (this one's rumored at 700+ pages), and I think it would be best for everyone if Clare said goodbye gracefully.
YA series don't work that way, Clare; the next installment is supposed to come out about a year after its predecessor.
Hopefully it means Heavenly Fire will bring the glory and happiness that City of Glass brought, when this series ended the first time around.
I'm just praying to God that this is the last one...
Words cannot express how amazing this book was! I will be posting a detailed review up on my youtube channel soon :)
TMI is the series that rekindled my love of reading.
Me While Reading This Book:The Writing:Cassie Clare never ceases to amaze me with her skilled writing.
I love the deep complex characters, the twisting plots, the humor, the action, the deception, the drama, the wit, and crazy parallels and connections to TID.
The Plot:I love how this book wasted no time.
;( I love how Cassie added Jem and Tessa to the book.
As long as there is love and memory, there is no true loss." -Cassandra ClarePRE READING:UPDATE 5/30/14 Finished the book.
EDIT: January 14, 2014 COVER COVER COVER COVER COVER THERE IT IS THERE IT IS IT'S BEEN TWOOOOO YEEEAAARRSSSS AND ITS SOO PREEEETTTYTY,,,,,EDIT: January 11, 2014 Release date pushed back 2 months? Still no cover?!?! What is this. What. Is. This."SEEING THE RELEASE DATE"a coming-to-realization storyA girl, innocently reading City of Lost Souls, deciding to check release date of the next book.Seeing this:MARCH 19ME:"Oh, ok, not too bad. I mean, just a few months, right?"  WRONG.  March 19 2013MARCH
EDIT: January 14, 2014 COVER COVER COVER COVER COVER THERE IT IS THERE IT IS IT'S BEEN TWOOOOO YEEEAAARRSSSS AND ITS SOO PREEEETTTYTY,,,,,EDIT: January 11, 2014 Release date pushed back 2 months? Still no cover?!?! What is this. What. Is. This."SEEING THE RELEASE DATE"a coming-to-realization storyA girl, innocently reading City of Lost Souls, deciding to check release date of the next book.Seeing this:MARCH 19ME:"Oh, ok, not too bad. I mean, just a few months, right?"
  
    WRONG.
  
March 19 2013MARCH 19th.F***ING.20.14.At First:Then:And Of Course:Inevitably:Then This:Can't Forget:Almost Forgot:And Finally, This:I can do nothing.It better f***ing blow my mind.And that is all.
1.) City of Bones ★★★2.) City of Ashes ★★3.) City of Glass ★★★1.) Clockwork Angel ★★★4.) City of Fallen Angels ★2.) Clockwork Prince ★★★★5.) City of Lost Souls ★★★★3.) Clockwork Princess ★★★★★  “You are the blade of Heaven. Make sure you are worthy.”  Friends, we did it, we read all of the The Infernal Devices and The Mortal Instruments. I’d like to take a moment and thank each and every one of you who motivated me to read this backlist instead of just jumping into The Dark Artifices. Seriously,
(But we don’t talk about City of Fallen Angels, that book never existed!) Basically, if you are on the fence about starting this series, and not sure what it is about, this is a story about a paranormal world that is hidden from the mundanes (non-magical humans).
Again, I think Cassie Clare just gets better and better at writing as these books go on, and I was legit happy with Jace’s character, even his pervy dude scenes, because #relatable.
- I feel like I’ve never fallen in love with Clary the way that I have with other characters from this world, but I’ve never disliked her.
Edit (3/12/13) - I just noticed that it says on the bottom of the placeholder:  "Cover to be revealed when you least expect it".
How could she end it on a spectacular cliffhanger then expect us to wait 2 whole years?
I hope everything works out between Tessa, Will, and Jem. Even though Clockwork Princess is already out, City of Heavenly Fire is still so far away.Cassie Clare give me City of Heavenly Fire because this wait is so cruel!Pretty please?
I need to know what happens, I need Magnus and Alec to fix their relationship.
This series was a fantastic choice for me!I listened to the Audible version of these books and they were a joy to listen to.
I was left feeling content, which is something I absolutely need with the end of a series.
I was surprised by my own reaction to some of the events.One aspect of this book that I really liked was the way the author pulled all the characters together.
So, clearly some of that content wasn't critical to the story.
I HAVE SO MANY FEELS
This freaking book is the best one and my feeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeelllllllllsssThis is going to be another one of my crazy reviews!
I had no idea I was going to be reading about some of the people in the freaking Clockwork Angel Trilogy in here!
I love a book that can make me crazy happy BECAUSE <--- that's why I read.
I will have to read The Clockwork Angel trilogy again sometime, but I'm going to go onto Lady Midnight because --> (another duh moment) I had no idea it was about some peeps from this book!
This is the first long-running series, with a total of six books, that I have ever read in my life.As a whole, The Mortal Instruments was a rollercoaster ride.
A part of me still feels like a chapter of my own life has come to an end because The Mortal Instruments has been a huge part of my reading experience.
Before, I complained about Cassandra Clare's obsession with dragging this world on but after reading and finishing The Mortal Instruments and The Infernal Devices, I now understand the love that readers have towards Shadowhunters and Cassandra's books.
In the series overall it seemed like super old and experienced Magnus was allowed to lie, be insensitive, and make mistakes… Yet inexperienced-in-every-way Alec wasn't able to so the same without being punished.
Isabelle loved Simon with all her heart and never felt that way about anyone else, she was just second best to him and the main reason he only ever liked her was because of her looks.
And no, I didn't buy Simon saying he only loved Clary like a sister.-I didn't like Jocelyn getting a happy ending, she should have died horribly, it was her fault that Sebastian/Jonathan never had a chance of a proper life.
<3 JUST POSTED MY BOOKTALK : http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Ibej6...
Finally something good:UPDATE: (THE COVER)
Hmm…although I have only read the first three books of TMI, I can't possibly imagine how Cassandra Clare wrote THREE MORE DANG BOOKS!!!
"No," says Cassandra Clare.I guess there are some questions unanswered: Will Simon choose Maia or Isabelle?
Will Clary train to become a Shadowhunter?
(well, I guess that one's pretty obvious)  Will Jocelyn marry Luke?But…with Valentine and Sebastian "dead" (ya, I seriously doubt that), the Downworlders and Shadowhunters "resolving their ancient problems that don't make any sense," and Clary and Jace "finally together," what is the plot?!
Probably lots of Jace and Clary time.
Y VERLA CON EL HERMANO ZACHARIAH QUE TODOS SABEMOS SU NOMBRE REALMENTE FUE DEMASIADO PARA MI CORAZÓN, LLORE DE LA FELICIDAD (hide spoiler)], para finalizar les tengo que decir que este libro fue el cierre perfecto para esta increíble saga de libros que marco tanto mi vida, y me hizo vivir momentos hermosos al momento de leer cada uno de sus libros.
Oh, 2014 you say? Way to freaking long. Right now this is me; And, the longer I wait the more I want to do this;    Oh, and if Alec and Magnus don't get back together;   For those of you who ship Simon/Clary instead of Simon/Izzy; Well, I would really love for Izzy to finally tell Simon how she feels 'cause then I would have to be all like; FINALLY!! Thank you, Jesus.
I'm glad I survived this mess.I started it maybe 7 or 8 years ago.
I loved this world, the Shadowhunters, Downworlders, the magic and all the forbidden romance.Many years later I have to admit that the excitement wore off.
Now I told myself to get a grip, and finish the series, and if it's only for my favourite characters - Alec and Isabelle.
Action-packed and fast-paced, fun and ironic dialouges, secrets and lots of hot and diverse people.While I'm not going to read the Dark Artifices, I'm still happy I finally finished the Mortal Instruments.Find more of my books on Instagram
2 Wait.. Was that it? Stars  Major Spoilers AheadOkay so let me get this straight I read 6 books in this series, the last book over 700 pages and that was the ending CC gave us readers really? I have to say I am pretty disappointed in the way the whole series played out. The first 3 books were really good but I feel like the last 3 though okay lacked depth of character, and depth of the on going relationships. Maybe it's because there was so many storylines going at once( CC could totally give
For instance we have 3 major relationship going on in this series (Jace and Clary, Simon and Izzy, Alec and Magnus) and like 3 side relationships(Maia and Jordan, Luke and Jocelyn and Maryse and Robert) Now I can understand not getting deep on the side relationships, but I as a reader should feel the love between the major 3 and I didn't.
Their relationship consist of a few kisses Izzy acting like a cold bitch for 5 books then towards the end of book 6( which again is over 700 pages) them telling each other they love each other.
I love Cassandra Clare's books but I'm gonna hate her forever for making me wait this long!!
I should have waited till the end of 2013 then bought COFA, COLS and COHF but I couldn't keep my hands of COFA.
Well....TORTURED, SLEEPLESS and I CAN'T KEEP MY MIND OFF COLS AND COHF!!!
Ok I'm just kidding about feeling suicidal.
I can't wait for the books to come out.
For me, books are synonymous to oxygen, food and water and all the other things required for life.
I hope I find enough books to read until COLS and COHF are released.
Is this the real cover? It's so pretty! *-* Edit: So this is the real cover... It's cool, but I think I like the fan-made one more...
I have no idea why I'm going to read this.Perhaps I am a masochist.City of Lost Souls was freaking awful.But I have to know how it ends.And maybe it will magically get better.Also it will probably have a gorgeous cover.And I have no self-control whatsoever.
"We are all the pieces of what we remember. We hold in ourselves the hopes and fears of those who loves us. As long as there is love and memory, there is no true loss."  5 Heavenly Fire Stars!This is going to be a very emotional review fangirling so please bear with me....I knew the conclusion of The Mortal Instruments will be beautiful. What I didn't expect was how it's even better than what I've expected. It was epic. The best of all the best. The kind of book that was well-molded from star
The kind of book that was well-molded from start to finish, closing the entire series with a huge impact to the heart.
Now let me express my feelings and opinions toward the beautiful major characters that made up the whole series.Clary - I loved her character development here.
This is the guy that I was looking for in previous books and because of that, I couldn't be any happier.Simon - Of all the characters, Simon is my most favorite.
And not just because of his epic action stunts but because in this book, he loved Magnus so fiercely and unselfishly.
2014!? THAT'S STUPID! WHY CAN'T I GO TO THE FUTURE AND READ THE BOOK AND COME BACK?!
