https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/446473.The_Girl_in_the_Golden_Atom
One of my first thoughts, as I read, was about those old, old text based computer games where, if you wanted the program to repeat a full description every time you entered a room, you could type the command "maximum verbosity"...
I did enjoy Mr. Cumming's descriptions of how the surroundings changed as the characters shrunk small enough to get inside an atom, but had to giggle at some of his world mechanics.I read this in a digital version and found it was rife with uncorrected format translation mistakes...
This is a rather odd book, but not without charm.
The protagonist theorises that every atom contains a literal universe of its own, and naturally he turns out to be right.
Delightfully, this method is a drug: one pill makes you larger, one pill makes you small (ho, ho).
Fortunately for 1920s readers, the drug is so powerful that it even affects one's clothes!
And, gosh, it really is splendid luck that, each time the protagonist shrinks himself (he makes several trips), he manages to find the exact same atom...But don't misunderstand me.
I enjoyed the book, I really did.
It's always an experience to read books from the 1900s.
Although I found the story interesting and it kept me wanting to read more, there were many moments that pulled me back to reality.
Or when the Chemist, having just arrived in a new world a day before, decides to commit genocide, just because he finds the first woman he has met compelling and attractive.
It is clearly a man's fantasy - go to a secret world with a primitive population, find an attractive and obedient woman, become leader of the secret world, and then return home triumphant with a beautiful trophy wife.
An early, pre-Doc Smith and Burroughs old school sci-fi (written between 1919 and 1920). "The Chemist said... to the Doctor next to the Banker... who sat by the Big Business Man and the Very Young Man". In spite of the time it was written, is a decent story. The miniaturization theme has often been used since. "The Incredible Shrinking Man", "Fantastic Journey" right up to Michael Crichton's posthumous "Micro".A little long for what it was (it is actually two novellas combined as one novel). I did enjoy it over all (once I finally finished it).
The story was good. And the "science" was pretty much what you would expect from the era. What really stood out for me was the not so subtle struggle between socialism and fascism (or capitalism, depending on your political viewpoint). A lot of these issues can easily apply to our society.
read this because someone in a twin peaks facebook group recommended it as relevant somehow. it's not. and it's dead boring.
Non è il genere di fantascienza che prediligo, la "scienza" su cui si basa il romanzo non ha molto senso, nemmeno considerando che è stato scritto nel 1922, e i personaggi sono piuttosto stereotipati.
Detto ciò, l'idea di un altro universo minuscolo contenuto in un atomo è piuttosto originale e carina e la lettura è comunque piacevole.(view spoiler)[Il romanzo finisce con i protagonisti che fuggono dal "mondo dell'anello" dopo averne messo in crisi la società.
Avrei preferito una soluzione alla situazione piuttosto che una fuga che lascia un po' un senso di incompiuto.
Motivo per cui do due stelle invece di tre.
(hide spoiler)]
Cummings was less political than Wells but he was influenced by the Great War and uses his story to make some observations on war and the fate of human society.
In some cases his observations on these matters become a bit disturbing when he intervenes in a war in the microscopic universe and ponders the possibility of doing something similar in our world.
In some ways this tale can even be seen as an anticipation of the Many Worlds interpretation of quantum theory although obviously Cummings’ idea of a multiplicity of universes is very different from the quantum one.It’s an interesting curiosity from the earlier days of science fiction.
Starts out a bit slow- after the setup (a chemist discovers a sub-atomic world in the gold of his mother's wedding ring and shrinks himself to explore it) we have a long first person narrative of the "I saw this and that and met so and so" variety, with very little action.
After the chemist goes into the ring a second time and his friends enter it to find him the action picks up- and after a couple of infodump lectures about the cultural and political life of the world the conflict starts- Cummings does keep the action moving nicely.The title is perfect- makes you want to pick it up immediately.
The characters have names like "the Chemist" and "the Very Young Man," the prose style seems torn from the pages of a Victorian-era National Geographic, and the natives of the tiny world inside the atom - the "Oroids" - are described with the sort of gravely stated praise that can never seem to emphasize enough how virtuous, comely, and noble they are.
It's a remarkable, if scientifically ludicrous, work of fantasy, which draws you into a world as outlandish, alien, and bizarre as you could ever dream: the imagination of a sci-fi writer of a century past.GIRL seems to be generally published along with its sequel, "The People of the Golden Atom," which continues with the same characters, who get involved in subatomic politics, to great dramatic effect...
This book was a BIG waste of time.
But it was what I chose to listen to when I was stuck at work without having planned in advance to have another book available.
I don't even want to discuss this book because my brain is SO bored.
Maybe the reader caused the book to be more undesirable because he sounded so pompous and bored so that means the protagonists sounded pompous and boring.
The science behind the whole book was flawed from the getgo - who can believe that by eating a chemical concoction you can not only shrink or grow but so do your clothes, your backpack, and everything and anything you are holding on your being.
If you are a fan of vintage science fiction, this is an acceptable book. It does tend to drag in places particularly where politics and government is discussed. The concept of a world, contained on an atom of a gold wedding band is rather intriguing to me. As a Green Lantern fan, fantasy ring stories appeal to me. As one who also wears a gold wedding ring, it just feeds the science fantasy side of my brain.Not a great read, but it does have some good moments. Be mindful, it is a product of its time.
Mediocre science fiction from the very early twentieth century. This is basically a pulpy combination of Gulliver's Travels and Journey to the Center of the Earth. The author seems to have a callous disregard for human life, as he has most of the main characters kill thousands of people without a second thought or any sort of moral qualms. His treatment of the female characters is quaint at best, and fairly sexist at times. One of the themes is socialism (good) versus a poorly-defined non-socialist governmental structure (bad). Nothing too intellectual here though.
GoldenThis would make a great movie. It takes the concept much further than the movie of," The Incredible Shrinking man". That movie was quite a few years ago. I have always thought that the universe goes both ways. Giant and small. Or should I say smaller. We won't know till our homecoming.
I probably wouldn't recommend this book to most people unless you like early sci fi. As with most books from the early 1900's the book drags on at points and had some questionable race/female comments but I still finished it and thought it was an ok read.
I'm really slogging through this book. I'm most of the way through and it's only starting to get interesting. Truthfully, I'm only reading it in order to delete it for room for something better on my PDA.
The original short story, which here is Chapters 1-8, is a great piece with a strong narrative and mode of narration. The rest gets lost in action, and loses the tightness of the narration so it's all a bit wishy-washy.
This gem of a book is something I am glad to have discovered. I will certainly read a lot more from Ray Cummings in the near future.If you are a fan of science fiction, you will very likely enjoy this novel.
I really don't think these kinds of books work for me.
