https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3475161-turn-coat
[4.5 Stars]
I often have a difficult time reviewing books in a series, so I'll just say this one thing: I'm continually thrilled by the fact that every event in the Dresden Files series is relevant to the struggle in Turn Coat.
So many authors miss the "why?" - why start a series at a certain point in time?
Why is the main character the focal point, how are they special?
Once again, he serves up sacrifices and tough blows along with the victories, and it's become clear to me that Butcher and Joss Whedon have a lot in common.Okay, when's the next book coming out?
"“There are bad things in the world. There's no getting away from that. But that doesn't mean nothing can be done about them. You can't abandon life just because it's scary, and just because sometimes you get hurt. ”
I KNEW IT!
part of it at least.I never guess the bad guy and I guessed it here!
*pats self on back* Though the simple solution is never the entire answer, thanks to the brilliant mind of Jim Butcher.
This was another expertly narrated audiobook by one of my all time faves, James Marsters, who was in fine form.
Brilliant, moving, twisty and turny...
just another excellent addition to the Dresden Files series, which has become one of my all time favorites.
I hope this series stretches on and on so I can get older with Harry Dresden by my side.
Morgan, one of the wardens of the White Council who has hounded Harry for nearly his entire life, needs saving...
You can't abandon life just because it's scary, and just because sometimes you get hurt." pg 45, ebook.The lines between good and evil are truly becoming blurred as the White Council continues to be assaulted from the outside.
Harry's sardonic humor is in evidence throughout this tale, delivering his one-liners with his usual flair: "They always have good coffee here," Ebenezar said a few moments later.
Feel ashamed of what your life meant?" pg 338, ebook.Highly recommended for fantasy fans.
In absolute fairness my reading of this novel suffered from two things.First and foremost this is the only Harry Dresden novel I have ever read.
While enjoyable I am certain that I would have benefitted greatly in knowing more about Dresden’s world from the earlier novels in the series.
Loved it, oh and Toot-toot too.3.5 stars which I am sure would be a certain 4 for a seasoned Dresden reader.
Another question for my non-southern friends: is it really a problem for you if a man opens a door for you?
Because Harry keeps saying that he's a chauvinist for doing things like opening doors for women, and that Murphy gets mad when he does it for her, but that's just crazy talk to me.
But, other than that...On to the book!So, I have been hoping that things would change a little in the Harry Dresden formula.
The main suspect in the murder is Harry's old nemesis, Morgan - the guy who has wanted to kill him since he was 16.
Things are getting pretty serious in the Dresden Files as Harry hunts down a traitor in the White Council of wizards.
When Morgan, the warden who once wanted to kill Harry, turns up on his doorstep hurt and on the run from the White Council Harry knows something is seriously wrong as Morgan has been accused of a crime Harry knows he would never commit.
The White Court of vampires have also been set up by someone in their ranks and form an uneasy truce with Harry and the wardens to flush out the traitors.
An entertaining episode moving the plot along to the war that is sure to resume between the wizards and the red vampires.
God, it was great reading about Harry Dresden again! This one was spectacular... Lots of magic and Harry's humor. It also kept me in the dark for quite a while.The hunt for the Black Council continues so it seems, and I will certainly be reading all about it!"I closed the door behind me, while life went on."
Looks like I'm sticking around.Morgan shows up at Harry's house with the Wardens on his trail, framed for murder.
Meanwhile, the Wardens are coming to Chicago and it looks like the White Court of the vampires is linked to the mysterious Black Circle of wizards Harry is sure exists.Why am I sticking around?
Harry's relationships with the other wizards and Thomas change.
New characters are introduced.
The plot advances.I can't imagine how anyone who has stuck out the series so far would find anything wrong with this one.
It wraps up some old plot threads and introduces others.
We also see a bit of why the Council thinks about Harry the way they do, and some awesome magic.
The bad things:-- The traitor's plot is clever, but the identity of the traitor was a bit of a let down.
A friend compared it to Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire, when a giant deal was made about a character dying, when you find out that the character was only a minor character until that book.
Mouse is awesome.
This was as good as the previous few novels keeping up what the series is good at; mysterious plot needing Harry to do some detective work whilst maintaining an ability to throw some quips around and using the assistance of those characters he’s previously been able to call upon.
The Black Council thread is hotting up now and I’m keen to see where that leads and also to see (view spoiler)[ what the hell is going to happen with Thomas!
My husband loves The Dresden Files series.
He's read every book and every short story.
I'm trying to catch up with him so that we can enjoy the next book together.
He was great as Spike in Buffy.....and he's wonderful as Harry Dresden, too!
This series never lets me down!Turn Coat is the 11th book in The Dresden Files.
I'm moving on to book #12, Changes!I definitely recommend this series to anyone who enjoys urban fantasy.
For me, the Dresden series is second only to Simon Green's Nightside books.
3.5 StarsThis book was a little...
Maybe not the supernatural threat in this book, because that was new, but quite a few different things were extremely predictable, and I figured out the whodunnit way, way early.
I almost never put all the pieces together before Harry does, but in this one, I did...
That's not to say that I didn't enjoy the book.
Harry is his usual snarkrageous self, and I loved him.
The voices were very different than I'd heard the characters in my head, but I still enjoyed the reading quite a lot.
Finally! We dig into the wizarding White Council and find out more about how it operates (and the many interesting characters involved). Delightful politicking ensued left and right, and it was really fun to see how Dresden fit in (or stuck out, depending on how you look at it). My favorite elements of Turn Coat were the settings and the mystery surrounding the Council. I had lots of theories on “whodunit,” and even though none of them turned out to be correct, I love it when books get me so involved.Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.nikihawkes.com
Me ha sorprendido para bien, y decir esto de la entrega número 11 de una saga es decir mucho.
Y abre un abanico de posibilidades para explorar en el futuro muy interesante.Me alegra que haya dejado atrás la historieta de turno que sabías que iba a terminar en pocas páginas y se adentra en el universo creado por Butcher dándole una profundidad aún mayor, con pequeños detalles que me han renovado las ganas de seguir leyendo.
Re-read Review, February 2018: As with almost every book in this series, I liked it better this time.
And even if I don't *like* it, I think Butcher deploys what the monster does to Thomas in an effective way.All in all, one of the best books of the series, and probably in the top two of the first half (pre-Changes, when everything, well, changes).Original Review, May 2013: I'm going to keep this (relatively) short because I'm about 7 gajillion reviews behind, but this series just keeps getting better and better.
8/10 o 4 estrellas de las completas.Durante un tiempo creí que no volvería a leer a Harry en castellano, así que decir que estoy encantado es quizás quedarme corto.Me ha gustado volver a leer al personaje de Dresden, uno de los mejores protagonistas que he leído y con el que es imposible no empatizar.También me ha gustado la trama y el desenlace.
Harry gusta porque es alguien cercano, con problemas económicos y que disfruta con una coca cola y yendo al burguer king, vamos, uno de los nuestros.
Fans of Harry Dresden will really enjoy this one. There have been hints of a traitor in the White Council for a while, and now it takes center focus. Harry also gets some romance, and there’s a big scary skinwalker. It’s possibly the creepiest monster yet.Side characters include Molly, Morgan, Thomas, and the werewolves. Butters makes a brief appearance at the beginning and end. There’s a lot of stuff going on—mystery, action, adventure, heartbreak.
The Council politics were just appalling.BTW...I have read a few reviews both by female and male readers who think that Harry is a chauvinist.
Harry knows he is not the most powerful, smartest guy in the world and he asks for help when he needs it, often from female characters.I do have to admit that I sometimes roll my eyes at the number of hot chicks described in the series; but, as a male friend has reminded me, guys do view the world differently.
Plus, of the four women Harry has been most interested in, three were not described as super-hot-model types, and the one who was got vamped and her prettiness reduced considerably.
Man, I love Mouse. I even love Butters.This one kept me guessing. I kept thinking I knew who it was but I was inevitably surprised.Thomas broke my heart, but he always does.I'm going to have such book drop when I get all caught up with these books and have to wait for the next.
okay...i give up...i have been giving this series 4 stars the whole way though...but lets face it...it is a five star series.
i guess i just didn't want to give an "urban fantasy" series four stars because there would be something "unfair" about it being that good...but the fact is they really are that good.
this series is on its eleventh book and is going just as strong (if not more so) now that it was when it was first started by butcher.
this one turns the view around to the white counsel and some of the infighting that is going on amongst them.
I have loved reading/listening to this series.
I not only love Harry, but the other characters too.
I don't think Jim Butcher has created a single one that I haven't appreciated....even the evil ones.
I liked this book more than the last one in the series.
It was true Harry Dresden vanquishing the evil and carrying on.
He has great friends that shined in this one.
I like that they are all given moments in the spotlight and aren't just tools used to move the story forward.
They feel like they all belong to the family.
Probably the best paced novel of the series so far!! Pretty dark with the fight scenes and anatagonists. Really cool!!
4.5 StarsJim Butcher must have done something saintly to be able to write with Soul Fire.Wait... maybe it’s Hell Fire...Either way he’s got some kind of writing magic up his sleeve!
Executive Summary: While this one is a bit slow in parts it sets the stage nicely for what currently stands as the best book in the series (Changes).Audio book: James Marsters is terrible in this one. Just Kidding. Still great! Highlights for this are his voice for the big baddie and I think he changed/gave TootToot a distinct voice that is both hilarious and AWESOME. Full Review "I love being a wizard. Every day is like Disneyland."Murder. Conspiracy. Evil. You know, politics. Just think about
We learn more about the White Council, including getting a look inside their headquarters.We are also introduced to a brand new baddie, called a Skinwalker, and let's just say it's nasty.The book is a bit slow in parts, and Morgan is still not a very likable character.
I'm trying to remember the last book he showed up in, and it seems like it's been awhile.The end of this is pretty excellent too, with some pretty big implications that sets the stage for Changes.All and all, another solid entry in the Dresden Universe.
The story starts off with a bang "...some idiot was pounding on my apartment door.I answered it and Morgan, half his face covered in blood, gasped, “The Wardens are coming.
Morgan, the most hard assed stickler for “letter of the law” Warden is in trouble with the White Council, accused of treason, and he goes to see his nemesis, Harry, for help?
The world must be coming to an end.After the initial shock the story settles into the usual whodunit formula with Harry on a deadline trying to find out who the bad guys actually are and what they’re up to.
Turn Coat is number 11 in the Harry Dresden series and I thought that maybe things would be getting a little stale by now, but, no Jim Butcher has secured his crown as King of Urban Fantasy in my mind.
Yet he sees beyond that to a man who is falsely accused and he puts himself and those he cares most about at risk to set this wrong to rights.The ending of this book has so many things in it that I did not expect.
Just as so often happens in real life.For anyone who have never read this series.
The darkest Dresden book by far.
Morgan, a Warder of The White Court is framed for a murder of a fellow wizard.
Yes, that same Dresden whom Morgan was intimidating for a long time trying to catch him doing black magic.
As soon as Harry Dresden takes the case, a lot of powers come into play, including a few demigods - all against a poor Chicago's wizard PI.
This is also probably the first book which cannot be considered to have a conclusion; it ends with a minor cliffhanger.
The book is entertaining and hard to put down with 4 star rating.
Read this review and more at Book Geeks Uncompromised!So taking a break from this series definitely did it some good.
It wasn’t a huge plot point or turning point in the book but it was impressive in how imaginative it was.The ending seemed to drag a little bit is really the only bad thing that can be said.After so many books of hearing about Harry’s lack of a love/sex life it seemed a little unjust that the one that was introduced in the last book ended already.
