https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16400.Money_in_the_Bank
I shall write thrillers, and I shall do nothing but write thrillers, and if they come to me and plead with me to appear in the latest cause célèbre, I shall reply that I am sorry, but I cannot fit it in.
She put him in mind of a bomb on the point of exploding, and it disturbed him.’‘It is the secret sorrow of authors that they too seldom come into direct contact with their public.
Viscount Uffenham, the very engaging aristocrat at the heart of this novel, is a case in point, and I should very much have preferred to have more of his exploits than those of, say, Mr Mulliner.
Some of the titled ladies and gents from the minor novels are little more than renamed copies of Lord Emsworth or Lord Ickenham (not complaining about that - two very fine creations indeed), but Uffenham is a most endearing creature, and one whom I feel sure could have sustained many more adventures than those in which he featured.
He is an exquisite being, and I for one shall miss him when I've exhausted the two novels in which he shines like a star.
Plot and characters kept us reading even on vacation.
I read this book aloud to my husband, a nonreader (though he loves stories)...
eight hours straight in the car driving home.
We knew that once we got home we probably wouldn't read any more of it, but lo!
we did read the last two chapters in our own bed after saying goodnight to the kids.
Had to finish!
This was a long story, for Wodehouse, I'm thinking.
This is the second Wodehouse I've read where the Americans are crooks and thugs!
I kept up the Lena Lamonte twang throughout.
Ainda procuro um livro do Wodehouse que seja ruim, ou no máximo mediano, ou que não me faça parecer abobado por rir lendo um livro (atualmente parece que é permitido rir de gifs meio efeminados, apenas).
Não foi desta vez.
Este aqui é um infantilismo paradisíaco, onde as boas almas são recompensadas apenas por atravessar um calvário de saudáveis quiproquós.As almas mais sensíveis de hoje em dia talvez se constranjam com o herói, que é constantemente instado a beijar a mocinha e a espremer suas costelas, para convencê-la de que ele é o amor de sua vida.
Ou, pensando melhor, talvez não.
Lord Uffenham is short of money and has had to let his country pile to big game hunter, Mrs Cork, however, what money he has is the family jewels which he has hidden for safe keeping.
Novelist Jeff Miller is on site to try and woo Mrs Cork’s secretary Anne Benedick who is secretly engaged to her employer’s nephew, Lionel Green.As you can imagine with a celebrated big game hunter in attendance before the boy gets the girl or the diamonds are recovered or the thieves revealed there is to be some gun play however it is really the dialogue that hits the mark.
The lawyer, smitten, doesn't correct her assumption and instead becomes the detective for the purpose of being as near the beautiful young woman as possible.
She -- the tenant -- is suspicious of everyone besides the butler and the personal assistant and wants a detective to look into things.
But I'm exhausted just telling you this much."Money in the Bank" is the best P.G. Wodehouse story I haven't read.
And I'm now convinced this is the best way to absorb a Wodehouse story; not reading it, not watching a BBC production of it.
I love PG Woodhouse, but I must admit I bought this one as I thought the cover looked enticing. But it was a good read too, if you want something easy to read, and funny from a golden age gone by - this is for you.
Simon Vance does an okay narration for this stand-alone Wodehouse novel. The book itself is not one of Wodehouse's best but was still an agreeable way to spend a snowy day.
Wodehouse can never disappoint and this book ensured me plenty of expected strange glances, as I chortled away in my lab during the significant wait times between rice specific gravity measurements of asphalt concrete.
He is masquerading as the butler Cakebread while his niece Anne Benedick is employed as Mrs. Clarissa Cork's secretary as they engage in futile searches for the missing diamonds.
The book is filled with comical assumed identities, love stories and a competition to find the diamonds first.
Must read for all Wodehouse fans.
I feel as though I must temper my review of this book by only giving it 3 stars because it is so typically Wodehousian.
Absolutely.While I don't typically include synopses in my reviews, all of these books are so similar that here's my one-liner summary: this is the one where a Lord forgets where he puts his diamonds, and enlists the help of a young man pretending to be a private detective who happens to be in love with the Lord's neice, currently in the employ of Mrs. Cork, big game hunter.Obviously.This read was especially enjoyable because I swung a first edition.
Il romanzo mi è piaciuto, anche se non entusiasmato.
In breve: un lord inglese in difficoltà economiche decide, per preservare quanto rimane del suo patrimonio, di convertire tutto in diamanti e di nasconderli da qualche parte nella sua tenuta.
Purtroppo poco dopo ha un incidente automobilistico che lo priva di una parte di memoria e quindi non si ricorda più il luogo in cui ha nascosto le pietre.
Inoltre, sempre per mancanza di soldi, si trova costretto ad affittare la sua tenuta...
Insomma, tra paradossali scambi di identità e continui fraintendimenti il romanzo si è rivelato ben orchestrato e piacevole da leggere.
This title is not part of any of Wodehouse's series, although the Malloys appear in other books of his. Money in the Bank was fun and worth the read, maybe not one of the author's best, but good nonetheless. The main female character is a bit haughtier than most of Plum's heroine's, but she does see the light (the male protagonist's virtues, I should say) in the nick of time, as always. There are some good laughs in this volume.
(A shared read with Donald, as is always the case with Wodehouse.)This is one of Wodehouse's stand-alone novels, but even if the character names aren't familiar, the character "types" and plot formula are.  This in no way diminishes the fun.  Lord Uffenham is a particularly bright spot in the novel. Not much more to say-- enjoyable as ever.
Diamonds that are lost, aren't really lost with Lords posing as butlers; their nieces, as secretaries; their eventual lovers, as detectives; con men as detectives, other con men as oil stock salesmen and the whatnot! The master is in fine form with all that can go wrong going wrong. However, this is, of course, Wodehouse's world and, eventually, the sun comes shining through.
Really cute. It didn't have Jeeves's sage observations but it had a sweet little romance at its center, which was a nice change of pace from that perpetual bachelor, Bertie Wooster.Also, Wodehouse wrote this while interned in a POW camp during WWII, which made it all the more amazing that it is so lighthearted, upbeat, and joyful.
George, Viscount Uffingham,mislays his fortune in diamonds and is forced to rent out his estate and return to it disguised as a butler named Cakebread the find the gems.(Working from an old list of books I read years ago.)
Second attempt to read Wodehouse and again a very naive novel. It's a typical genre's novel, when you read about the same characters again and again, expecting every move so no surprises. Maybe it's a funny little novel to some readers but that's all, which isn't enough for me.
For my money, this is one of Wodehouse's best: the plot is well put together, the characters excellent (especially the deep-thinking Lord Uffenham), and the style at its peak of Plummy perfection.
This is an overlooked gem, perhaps it is not part of one of the great series. Which is a pity, because Lord Uffenham had great potential. Surely he had more nieces than just Anne and Jane?
Wodehouse does it again. I listened to this on audio while commuting and at some points I became concerned that I was laughing too hard to drive safely.
How did I miss this one before? It's hilarious! Truly a great effort from Plum.
Not as many belly laughs as Right Ho, Jeeves, but still wonderful!
Another Plum classic :)
Приятно и леко четиво, малко претоварено на моменти.
Now where did I put those diamonds?
I love P.G Wodehouse, he always makes me laugh. such great and funny characters.
1/1/99. No library.
Sheer genius.
