https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149267.The_Stand
While some are drawn to the saintly Mother Abigail in Boulder Colorado who tells them that they have been chosen by God, others have flocked to Flagg in Las Vegas who is determined to annihilate all those who refuse to pledge their allegiance to him.If King would have just written a book about a world destroyed by plague and a small number of people struggling in the aftermath, it probably would have been a compelling story.
King calls this a tale of dark Christianity in his forward, and one of the things I love about this book is that it does feel like a Biblical story, complete with contradictions and a moves-in-mysterious-ways factor.
I know we've been friends for a long time, but I just never developed those kind of feelings for you, even after eleven hundred pages.
Your military friends bored me out, though, especially Starkey; I don't even get why you like spending any time with those guys.
It bothers me, because you took the time to develop nuanced male relationships (Larry, Stu, Lloyd), but the women were about reproducing or were cannon fodder.
Honestly, it's kind of juvenile, and a little disappointing when I know you are capable of so much more.
I'm sure you'll find someone special eventually, Stephen, because you are such a really great guy.
There is also the spiritual quality of the book, King shows how we are sinners in the hands of an angry God, and that dreamers will survive – and survivors can still dream.I could not help making a comparison with the Left Behind series, and associating Flagg to Nicholai Carpathia – though King’s characterization is far more complex and well rounded, and like Milton’s Satan, the most interesting character here is the villain.
This makes me appreciate his The Gunslinger series and I want to search out Flagg and read more about him.This is also an American epic and in its context an American eulogy.
Want to catch the flu? Read The Stand.I caught it twice in the month it took me to read this book. Twice! I'm rarely sick so it's clearly a thing.Post-apocalyptic book where most people die from a super flu. That part was my favorite.It then becomes a battle between Good and Evil. Some fantasy elements were included. This part was still solid. I liked how we got to follow the characters and get to know them. I felt some similarities to Station Eleven so if you like The Stand I would give this one a shot too!
Wow!!
So I have had this awesome paperback door stopper for some time.
The narration is freaking awesome!
The whole damn book is freaking awesome!
That was a long time ago and who the hell knows!
I'm just extremely happy I finally read it.
It's long, but most books I read or listen to are so that's neither here nor there.
I just loved reading about all of the people and events.
And I did laugh at times.
YES, scary stories do have some comedy at times.
Happy Reading!
He is the embodiment of evil.King said that he "wanted to write a fantasy epic like The Lord of the Rings, only with an American setting"- and that is just what he did.
THE STAND is a wonderful epic fantasy adventure about good vs evil- One that I would recommend to anybody who hasn't read it yet, and even to those who have!

As it turns out, The Stand is a HIGHLY characters’ driven book with the plot moving at a very slow pace, and as great as it was, sometimes it did get a bit excruciating.One of the two that stands out the most from this book—other than the gigantic size—in my opinion was the theological nature and the classic tale of a battle between good versus evil.
It’s unfortunate that there were a few hiccups with the pacing and ending but I still will recommend this book to anyone who enjoyed a heavy theological discussion and memorable characters in their read.
The ultimate post-apocalyptic/horror/fantasy and thought provoking novel.The following content was provided by the publisher, giving a brief synopsis of the story and information on the 1991 uncut version.This is the way the world ends: with a nanosecond of computer error in a Defense Department laboratory and a million casual contacts that form the links in a chain letter of death.
A world in which good rides on the frail shoulders of the 108-year-old Mother Abigail -- and the worst nightmares of evil are embodied in a man with a lethal smile and unspeakable powers: Randall Flagg, the dark man.
Haunting read! scary good and well written (paperback!)
It seems to be practically a Utopia, but the people decided it would probably be boring so they split into two camps trying to wipe out each other.
Yes, I said it: nice people are boring; this was one of the lessons I learned from the book.
Not a single human being in the book bothered with creating new things.
By this time I read quite a few King's books and as a result I noticed some things I think worth mentioning.
Practically all people in any King's story love to let their bladder go the moment they get even a little scared.
FULL REVIEW UP!Laws yes, I finished this huge ass book!I’ve been wanting to read The Stand for years.
I still loved the overall story though and have to give this book 5 stars because of the amount of world building and characterization that King ends up writing about.One thing that I had issue with on the unabridged version was the Trashcan Man chapters.
It slowed down the pace for me and made me miss the other characters.Now that I’ve finished the book though, I understand why King wrote those chapters and wanted them in the book.I absolutely loved the ending of this book!
The place where you made your stand never mattered. Only that you were there...and still on your feet.   So I finally finished this gigantic brick. This freakin' gigantic heavy brick, and all I can say is, this is probably the best freakin' brick ever made. With a heaping 1439 pages, this book managed to hurt both my wrists, and probably injured some of my fingers. That's the price I had to pay to read this amazing novel. I never thought that I wouldn't finish this, fuck it I never even though
The length of the novel is proportional to the enjoyment I experienced while reading this.Once again, the characters were amazing and fully developed.
I didn't care for him that much in the beginning, but things started to change as I read along.Stu and Fran's story would have to be my favorite of all the ones in the novel.
I'm not considering this as a major problem of mine though, I just thought that King could've ended the novel in a different way.
(hide spoiler)]So to wrap things up, this is now my favorite King novel.
It is that same story, but with a distinct Stephen King-esque flavour.Add a dystopian, post-apocalyptic, anarchic world in the grip of an epidemic that claimed most human lives to the eternal conflict between good and evil, and the summation result will lead to The Stand.But it is so much more than this simple one-sentence summary.
This premise doesn't seem very far-fetched, which could make it either more or less entertaining, depending on your temperment.Here's my opinion about good old Stevie King: he's got a real problem with endings.
Two years later, I'd finally recovered enough to brave It again, and the ending was so stupid that I sorely wished I'd saved myself months of clown-terror wakefulness by finishing it the first time.
But he almost invariably writes himself into a corner, and his endings are a let-down.The great thing about The Stand, to me, is that King a.
The Stand's good stuff.
Traveling Sister Reads Review by NORMA, BRENDA and KACEEY!!Let’s take a stand against evil!!5 epic stars for THE STAND by STEPHEN KING as we all thoroughly enjoyed the entire experience of reading this masterpiece of a novel together.With not too many of Stephen King’s novels read and not really being all that familiar with his work, when we thought of King we thought of horror, disturbing, and very frightening came to our minds.
STEPHEN KING created a believable world here after a devastating destruction of the human race and it left us wondering how it would play out with our generation of technology.
Do you believe that happy crappy?”There were some fantastically well-developed characters in this book, and they all joined the side of one of the two most charismatic characters of all: Mother Abigail and Randall Flagg.
Every character King crafted within this story felt special and real and relatable, but Tom shone.
The theological debates between characters and within their own thoughts was incredibly thought-provoking, and I would read this book again just for that.
If you’re going to read one Stephen King book, I wholeheartedly believe that this should be the top contender.
Other than a slow spot in the middle (view spoiler)[ (Free Zone)  (hide spoiler)], it is perfectly paced and un-put-downable.That is where my problem with the Unabridged version lies – and I have seen other reviews complaining about the same thing; some even saying that the abridged version of The Stand is their favorite King book, and the Unabridged their least favorite.
In fact, all the parts I enjoyed the most were there in the abridged version – and I don’t think I enjoyed them just because of familiarity.Another thing that the extended parts caused was getting out of touch with the characters for a much longer time than before.
The last two months have consisted of late nights, copious amounts of coffee and naps during physiology class.
But The Stand has been my constant and loyal companion; one that I have used as a pillow in the aforementioned physiology class.
Finishing the book felt like saying goodbye to a friend that had not once let me down.
I’d like to salute Stephen King for giving me Mother Abagail, Nick Andros, Glen Bateman, Kojak, Stu Redman, Fran Goldsmith and one of the most beautiful journeys I’ve ever been on.
October 14, 2018 Review:This is my second time reading this ridiculously long piece of apocalyptic fiction, and I’m still not sure why I decided to read it again (listen to it, actually...
It’s how a felt when I finally reached the end of the book.
Hell, I think I rushed a lot of the book last time.
I don’t wanna spoil anything, but spending a lot of time with a couple of characters slowly trudging our west was probably the best part of the book for me.
__________________August 5, 2016 Review; I once had this goal to read everything King book in order of publication.
But what made the whole thing an indigestible corn syrupy mess for me is that it’s essentially founded on the idea that Bad People do Bad Things Cause They’re Possessed by the DEVIL.
But King makes it clear that Flagg has some kind of occult power to influence them.
Now, if this was ultimately about Flagg getting into a fisty-cuffs with Mother Abigail, with her using her own weird (but good weird) occult power to control her minions in some kind of heavenly smack-down, I would be okay with that.
That they aren’t people is such a sweet little fantasy.
The Stand is one of my all-time favorite books, and I think it is the most unforgettable. A must read if you are a SK fan, and a must read if you love Good vs Evil!
I haven't read any horror book for 5 years.I have heard of Stephen King a many times.
He has a very good imagination and the way he has created horror atmosphere is wonderful.
King has created horror atmosphere and feel brilliant also he knows how to draw the readers in and he deliberately keep suspension to make the readers to keep reading this book.There are multiples of characters in this book.This book has included religion and it has shown good verse bad.There are lots of characters but I really like one character in the book, Nick Anderos, he is my favourite character.What a stupendous book!
Traveling sister read with Norma and KaceeyI am feeling wow right now and what an achievement reading The Stand. 2 weeks on this amazing book and the best part the discussions it created with Norma and Kaceey.Great book for a group read.Norma has posted the full review on her reviews or you can find it on our sister blog.http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
A heartfelt thank-you to Norma and Brenda for including me in this 1,300 page marathon journey of a novel.
Such a great concept and what an incredible experience.
With such an incredibly long book we managed to keep one another on track.
It was great fun trying to figure out where the story would take us.
A 5 star book as well as a 5* reading experience!
Thank-you to my 2 new Canadian sisters!In the end, the book left me with just one question: is mankind doomed to continually repeat his past mistakes?To see the full traveling sister review please visit Norma and Brenda's blog at:Http://twogirlslostinacouleereading.w...
Stephen King can only write a good ending to a book by chance.
A pyromaniac with an array of mental issues, a man with learning disabilities, a singer who was in the act breaking big, others more ordinary but no less fascinating under pressure.The literary institutions of this world sniff at horror writers as much as they do fantasy writers but I find King's prose and insights into the human condition to be as powerful as those in many of the more plodding works of literary fiction I've read.

I'm sorry but I cannot, in good conscience, give this anything less than 5 stars. Even though there were a few parts that aggravated me--mostly in book 3--the good far exceeded the bad. It took me nearly three weeks to read this 1153 page monster, and amazingly I was never bored with it. Such an epic tale, biblical in scope, with some truly remarkable character development. I'll be remembering this one for a long, long time to come.
And so the Apocalypse Trifecta is complete, with my one, true favorite End of the World book.
I also think I have about three different copies floating around....It's hard to know where to begin when writing about this book, probably because I work under the assumption that everyone has read it.
But I guess that's what everyone thinks about their favorite books, so I'll fill in those of you who haven't.It's the end of the world.
Had they been strong enough, Harold and Nadine never would have gone as bad as they did, and I think even King kind of had a hard time making them do what he wanted.Underlying all this, of course, is a kind of Old Testament religiosity.
Maybe not a good time to be reading a book about a super flu, but I was young and not so bright.This had to have been in 1981 or so, because that’s the year MTV debuted, back then they played music videos on Music Television and probably had about ten or so they kept playing over and over.
It was like a whole new book.The government develops a biological weapon, a super flu (project Blue) , nick named Captain Tripps, that is inadvertently released and kills 99% of the human population along with most of the dogs and horses.
