https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/545437.Last_Nights_of_Paris
Is there a better book, and in the determinants for this “better” must be factored in brevity, whose sole purpose is to make of a woman a city that one can live in and travel through, lured on by sweet and tragic mysteries, and by dread?
Last Nights of Paris is something of a proto-noir, but a noir whose urban backdrop has been brought to the fore and endlessly (yet finitely) elaborated upon, while the plot is swallowed up by shadows; in these ways it has an abstract, impressionistic quality, like a painting whose main point is atmosphere and texture rather than narrative or discursive meaning.
Like a city (or a woman?) this book can swallow you up (willingly) before you know it.
For Soupault, it is a space of limitless possibility, surprise, and intrigue, or at least the heightened sensation thereof.
Soupault juxtaposes his gorgeously crafted explorations of the night with increasing sections in which the mysteries of the night dissipate under the lamps of daylight.
Really, both are "real", the night can never be abolished, but the increasing invasion of less inspired ordinariness into the storyline breaks the mood somewhat.
Of course, this is also an effect of the novel falling increasingly under the influence of superficial characters -- the pair at the core of its night world can restore the full mystery at will, with the flick of a wrist.
I wanted to soak up a bit of surrealist love for the City of Light, and indeed, Soupault's work is a kind of proto-noir love letter to nocturnal Paris, in which various shady characters roam the banks of Seine between sundown and dawn, interacting in mysterious ways and becoming fascinated and disenchanted with one another.
Soupault is not suggesting that these dogs have human-style intelligence, or some kind of mystic knowledge—only that conscious decisions are of less importance, in nocturnal Paris, than the vagaries of chance.
Re-reading this book at the moment, and I forgot what a joy Soupault's writing is to me.
He doesn't over-do it and there is a lot of charm in his work."Last Nights of Paris" is a Surreal narrative that is a love note to Paris.
In many ways similar to Breton's great novel "Nadja" in that the city itself is the main character of the novel.
The great thing is that when one gets to know Paris in an intimate manner they can go back to "Last Nights of Paris" to favor both the city and this book.
Surrealist novel translated by William Carlos Williams. Will make you long to wander Paris by night.
A poet, novelist, and journalist, with a much less political and less theoretical approach to writing than his colleagues Breton and Aragon, Soupault was expelled from the movement in 1926—along with Antonin Artaud—for "their isolated pursuit of the stupid literary adventure." Les Dernièrs Nuits de Paris was his third prose work, published in 1928." - p v "Indeed, Last Nights of Paris seems to share much with both the Surrealist novels (Nadja, Paris Peasant) and the American expatriate novels (The Great Gatsby, The Day of the Locust) of its day." - p vi "both the Surrealist novels"?
It is the night's query and Georgette did no more than express aloud that eternal interrogation.One more question without answer, a question one also asks of the stars, the weather, the shadows, the entire city.Georgette, the sailor, the dog and I myself had no answer ready and this we sought wandering at random, driven here rather than there by an invincible fatigue.Thinking it is over as we were walking with soft steps under the trees of the Champs-Elysees, I seemed to catch a purpose, that of all the night prowlers of Paris: we were in search of a corpse.
It is a book about the Paris that only comes alive in the night, and it cannot be roughly handled nor can all of its secrets ever be known.Daybreak.
(21)In this, Paris is like the woman of this story, Georgette.
Pequeña joya de la narrativa surrealista, novela flâneur, nocturna, que protagoniza la ciudad de París y los misterios que provoca el azar de sus acontecimientos. La anécdota argumental en este caso es lo de menos: una intriga sostenida por diversos personajes marginales que no son más que símbolos de la calle, los puentes, las estatuas, las estaciones.
Poetycka mini-powieść jednego z ojców założycieli surrealizmu, powstała już po wykluczeniu go z paryskiego kręgu i być może dlatego, jak twierdzi wydawca, konsekwentnie pomijano ją w polskich antologiach, choć paradoksalnie jest bardziej surrealistyczna niż wszystko, co wyszło spod jego pióra wcześniej.
Wraz z narratorem, niemalże pod rękę, spacerujemy uliczkami i zaułkami Paryża w magicznej atmosferze chłodnych nocnych mgieł i ledwie rozświetlającego mrok, żółtego blasku latarni.
Zostajemy świadkami zbrodni i próbujemy odkryć prawdę o tajemniczych, nocnych wydarzeniach.
Jednakże istotą utworu nie tyle są te wydarzenia a nastrój niesamowitości, spacerowanie nocą, po tym – zupełnie innym niż dzienny – Paryżu; to one są celem samym w sobie.
3.1 starsAnother book about a man entranced by a French woman who has no qualities other than being mysterious.
"Georgette is a woman.
She lives and that's all." How novel.
How fucking romantic.
Maybe you'll think it's better if Georgette is a stand-in for Paris as Soupault inelegantly puts forth numerous times, but is it?
This book is lacking guts.
It's just a skeleton, and one with many bones missing.
Translated by William Carlos Williams.
That at least is interesting and makes for some pretty strings of words.
Too bad they don't add up to anything.
"As the many memoirs of Paris in the twenties attest," says my edition's introduction, "the disparate worlds of the French avant-garde and the American expatriates rarely collided." As such, Williams's translation "stands at the unlikely juncture of both French and American literary modernism." With its cast of tough, amoral characters (including the obligatory femme fatale), evocative urban setting, and the protagonist's quest into the urban labyrinth unlock a puzzle, Last Nights of Paris is very reminiscent of the contemporary development of American noir and hardboiled detective fiction.
These impulses are the thematic heart of "Last Nights of Paris." Paris at night is a distinct perception of the city and one which persists to the present day.
Just last week I read an article in the New York Times lamenting the disappearance of this "other Paris" following a crack-down on noisy bars and nightclubs.
The descriptions of the city in "Last Nights of Paris" reminded me of those I'd read in Louis-Ferdinand Celine's brilliant "Journey to the End of the Night;" the title of which alone speaks to this common image of Paris at nighttime.
i had heard a bit about this, just mentioned in passing, in the new biography of new directions press and james laughlin "Literchoor Is My Beat": A Life of James Laughlin, Publisher of New Directions and then some goodreaders too were talking about how good it was recently, so got it to read. and oh it is very good, modern novel of 1920's paris and what people get up too late late at night. night people will understand perfectly. just you, your footsteps, and lamplight
It was the strange independent movie of books
"Slowly I went on my way, following the day's ascent. While the sun rose and came to greet me, I marveled at being able to live in the midst of mystery without being wonderstruck each second. I admitted that we grow accustomed to the strangest circumstances and smiled with pity thinking of those who refuse to be what is called dupes--who want to know everything and are not even able to perceive the diurnal mystery which suffuses and bathes them from head to foot."
A Surrealist novel from 1928, Soupault's "Last Nights of Paris" is a love letter to the city of Paris. Ostensibly concerning the nocturnal wanderings of an odd collection of ne'er-do-wells, the book is really an evocation of the magic and mystery of Paris.
Amazing journey, the most real (surreal actually) I've ever experienced.
I thought I must be missing something. It was vaguely interesting but insignificant.
"Para mi vergüenza, era evidente que aquello que me separaba de ellos era, justamente, lo que los hacía tan atractivos para mí. Seguía convencido de que nuestro encuentro no había tenido nada de casual; de que, aunque no lo apreciara nítidamente, era yo mismo quien había deseado conocer a aquellos seres cuyas fuerzas y debilidades no dejaban de asombrarme."
¡Me ha encantado! Soupault escribe como uno piensa cuando deja que su mente vuele libremente entre lo que el mundo es y lo que nos evoca, pero a diferencia de otros textos surrealistas hay un relato que sostiene ese poético divagar.
Awhile back I had struggled to translate a relatively brief selection by this author, and although my French is reasonably good I had to have my translation looked over because I was unsure it was accurate.
While I daresay it could be improved, it seems to have captured something of Soupault's style, which was borne out by the sense of intense familiarity I now experienced reading William Carlos Williams's translation of Last Nights of Paris.Part of what I translated:"Toyen respects neither charm, nor tenderness, nor this species of affectation which fades like the smiles of older women.
Hermosa edición para una novela escrita durante la duermevela de la consciencia, desde la que París, Georgette o los congéneres no son la bohemia con la que sueña Woody Allen en Midnight in Paris, sino algo mucho más áspero y sinuoso.
William Carlos Williams translates the French novel by Phillippe Soupault.
Soupault was a member of the Surrealist movement in France but was expelled.
This is really more of a novella - it chronicles the mystery and intrigue of a night in Paris.
He ends up feeling more like a puppet, played by the motives of the parties involved in the crime.
The whole thing reads more like a long, meandering poem, and truly lulls the reader off into a whimsical, fantastical world - Paris by the steamy light of streetlights, whores walking the streets, smugglers and deviants making eyes.
"Last Nights of Paris" is an early surrealist novel which concerns the narrator's obsession with a woman, Georgette, who embodies Paris by night but appears totally different by day.
It's a well-written, but quiet work, capturing a 'feeling' of Paris as a city that lives by night; although in terms of surrealist prose it is mild compared to other work in the genre such as Breton & Eluard's "Immaculate Conception".
There are comparisons with Louis Aragon's "Paris Peasant" and I found this book the easier read of the two.
Recommended for surrealist lovers but unlikely to appeal outside of that circle.
He maintains the humanity in the story.
The characters are just as important as the imagery and are intwined in the city of Paris, showing how the two, people and place, create each other.
Although it is true that not much happens in the plot, so if your looking for a plot driven story, you won't like it.
Mostly the protagonist wanders around Paris, following one person, who leads to another, and then another, which leads to a mystery, that isn't really a mystery, but it facinates him.
But the prose is lovely and the story facinating.
never heard of this before it came into our store & I was intrigued by the collaboration between old french surrealist & not as old american poet (translator william carlos williams) so I grabbed it.
a promising beginning led me to believe this would be more than the old wandering around paris w/whores & lowlifes book...not so much tho.
some of the language & imagery in williams's translation is nice, but the whole enterprise never reaches a higher level for me.
interestingly, when I finished it I discovered on the final page the author's signature & a note that this was a very limited signed & numbered edition, causing our store owner to raise the price...an extra hundred dollars!
this book is a genuine child of the time, during which it was written. Not just another fake imitation, trying to sound like the notorious 'roaring 20s'. In this novel, Paris is a woman, and thus, a mystery, and this explanation is enough to cover all grounds. It is a hymn to Paris, to its symbolic value/burden. I wish I had been in Paris, but perhaps, the Paris I am looking for, only exists in Soupault's mind. An ου-τοπος, a utopia.
The ultimate surreal personification of la cité d'amour, Last Nights of Paris is a triumph of style over substance. Plot is peripheral as the narrator struggles with concepts of chance, time, darkness/light, existence. For a novel of the Surrealist movement, Soupault's language is quite direct but personal and emotionally concentrated, effortlessly establishing a hypnotic rhythm. Recommended.
This book was probably a 2.5 for me. I had to read it for my English Plot and Narrative class. I didn't like the way it just wandered about and there was no really plot here. You find out things that should be pivotal to what maybe be the plot, but then it's just glossed over. It was not a terrible book, but nothing I would have finished if it wasn't for school.
A classic of surrealist lit, Last Nights, to my mind, is everything that Nadja wanted to be but wasn't. An inspired account of a familiar city becoming unfamiliar and mysterious at night. The kind of book that you gets you excited to spend a night trolling unfamiliar areas for random adventure and unlikely encounters. I'll definitely go back to it.
