https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17927395-a-court-of-mist-and-fury
Rating: All the stars in the universe   "I needed not to be dead when I agreed.”“You needed not to be alone.” I don't really know what to say in order to adequately express how stunning A Court of Mist and Fury is. How exquisitely beautiful. How slow-burningly sorrowful. How... joyous at the same time. I'm at a lack of words for describing how it truly made me feel -- because this book resonates with my soul and my heart and my mind so wonderfully, it just filled me with awe from within, leaving
I'm at a lack of words for describing how it truly made me feel -- because this book resonates with my soul and my heart and my mind so wonderfully, it just filled me with awe from within, leaving me drowning in an eternal swirl of emotions, a ruin because of a mere novel.
! I loved Velaris with all my being and if there ever was a fictional place or universe in which I'd want to live, then Velaris and the Night Court are it.
A Court of Mist and Fury is my new favorite book and I'll keep it close to my heart from now on.
I'm totally open to the whole Feyre/Rhys thing, but I love Tamlin so much and I don't want him to be ruined by Sarah J.
And I think I would've fallen for him even if Tamlin hadn't been the piece of shit he was.Before this book, I couldn't imagine any possible reason that would make Feyre leave Tamlin and fall for Rhys.
I feel like SJM did this just to add more perfection to Rhysand's character: Obviously he's the only considerate Fae that cares about the poor humans, the other High Lords are nothing compared to him!Now let's go to the other side of my review (this will be drastic): Despite eveything, I LOVE RHYS SO MUCH!
I was not a pet, not a doll, not an animal. I was a survivor, and I was strong.  Oh damn. That was so unexpectedly good. And to think I almost didn't take a chance on this after not loving the first book...So, here it is: I present to you 7 reasons why this book is a million times better than A Court of Thorns and Roses.1) Less romance.Oh, don't worry, there's romance. There's lusty, slow-build, flirtatious romance that somehow manages to be completely absent from the first book, even though ro
And to think I almost didn't take a chance on this after not loving the first book...So, here it is: I present to you 7 reasons why this book is a million times better than A Court of Thorns and Roses.1) Less romance.Oh, don't worry, there's romance.
I absolutely love it when characters show realistic growth over time and I think that's especially important with Feyre here.Feyre is not the character she was during A Court of Thorns and Roses.
This book makes me feel so many different things at once that I have to just stop and think until I can get my head straight.Because ACOMAF has it all –  Beautiful writing, twisty plot turns, SNARKY BANTER that made me laugh out loud, PURE FAE AWESOMENESS specially from the NIGHT COURT CREW, heart-pounding suspense, CRAZY ACTION SCENES, WOMEN’s EMPOWEREMENT, and a SEXY ROMANCE that me made blush and swoon SO HARD.
SJM made me feel his love, his losses, his pains and overall his passion for his people and Court."I stared at up at him, breathless, while he smiled.
WOW!! WOO HOOOO!!! Feyre is rock!! This book is rock!!!! Bwahahahaha Feyre!! My girl, that's it! that's it! YESSS!! *dies* the next book! *dies!!* Rhys RHYS!! My... MINEEEE!!!! Love it! Romance! Night Court!! This Book!!! Yes YES! <3
This could, quite possibly be, one of my favorite books I've ever read. Truly an amazing, magical and ethereal read that I really didn't want to end!In depth review coming soon to my YouTube channel!
Probably one of the most game-changing books I have ever read. My love for Rhysand might be usurp my love for Warner.update january 2018: nevermind lol
One of my favorite books of the year! I feel like I can't say much because of spoilers, but I love the characters I love the story I love the romance I JUST LOVE IT ALL.*re-read april 2017
This book was outstanding! I don't even understand how SJM was able to make this jump from book one. I mean, this book is leagues above the first in this series. Damn. Damn. So. Good.
❝I was not a pet, not a doll, not an animal. I was a survivor, and I was strong. I would not be weak, or helpless again. I would not, could not be broken. Tamed.❞  A Court of Thorns and Roses was one of the first books I started reading that got me into Fantasy and reviewing books. Way back when this series, the Throne of Glass series, and Sarah J. Maas, herself, wasn't hyped up like there's no tomorrow. It was the first book I've read by Sarah J. Maas and the reason I picked up the Throne of
Maas and the reason I picked up the Throne of Glass series because I just needed more SJM in my life.I was satisfied with the way things ended in ACOTAR so when I heard that some "changes" were going to be made in A Court of Mist and Fury, I was a little disappointed.
Maas if there isn't some character butchering and changes in love interests involved.But after reading A Court of Mist and Fury, I actually found myself accepting the transition in love interests much to my surprise.
It still doesn't excuse what Tamlin does in this book but he's just another damaged character like Feyre and Rhysand.
well last year i made an acotar gif review so now here is my acomaf one because people kept askingWhere do I even begin? feyre and her ptsd:tamlin:basically me,tamlin’s actions:second,tamlin and feyre?? i’m done with this shiprhysand:the inner circle:rhysand’s development and overall story arcbut also,rhysand and feyre//feysandbut my FAVORITE PART IS FEYRE’S DEVELOPMENTbasically…and i basically want her to destroy everyone and everything that has it coming in book 3 evil queen styleand the ending:the wait for book 3 will be long and hard…how will i survive…idek
Because -and this is the truly sad thing, as someone else said before me- A Court of Mist and Fury could even be enjoyable if the first book had not happened before.•I won’t go so far as to say that what we have here is a case of lack of “show” and an excess of “tell”, because the first chapters do show that Tamlin, whether for some PTSD or because he has always been a scumbag, undeniably acts like the worst man on the planet.
Normal cats, thank God, ordinarily talk like freaking civilized beings.•The first time (view spoiler)[Rhysand and Feyre have sex and he climaxes, the mountains tremble (hide spoiler)].
I can't really summarize all these feels right now, so here's a list of the awesome:- The Court of Dreams/Rhysand's family and how well Maas can weave different myths & cultures together (like how the Morrigan and Azriel are part of the court of the Hades figure in this Persephone retelling)- every single detail of the Night Court -- I need fan art asap- answers & the insight into all of Rhysand's previous actions- how much Rhys supports and respects Feyre as an equal- actual healthy relationships with communication (friendships too)- the fact that this was never a love triangle- Rhys & Feyre form a solid friendship first (and she helps him tons)- Feyre leaves a toxic relationship for herself instead of another guy- I HAVE SO MUCH LOVE FOR HADES/PERSEPHONE RETELLINGS - awesome action scenes and pacing that never got slow- not seeing Tamlin's name on the page for long periods of time- how Nesta & Elain worked into the plot- THAT ENDING.I've seen some concerns that this book might be too steamy for teens, but I really don't think it's a bad thing for teens to read about consent in an empowering relationship for a change.
"When you spend so long trapped in darkness, you find that the darkness begins to stare back."  Yall... this book... this book and its hype... this book and its hype and all it's spoilers; had me worried. On top of all that I feared that this book, all 600 plus pages, would suffer a massive case of second book syndrome. I'm so freaking happy to finally say that this book was AMAZING! As I do with most my on-going series reviews I'm going to keep this review spoiler free. Since this book was bro
this book and its hype and all it's spoilers; had me worried.
I'm so freaking happy to finally say that this book was AMAZING!
Since this book was broken up in several sections I'm going to basically break my review down by that.
So many things happen in the first half of this book, all leading up to Rhys finally coming to get her.
That's all I'm really going to say about the first section of this book.
Mor, Amren, Cassian, and Azriel brought everything to this story!
This part of the book was all about build up and setting the stage for the ending.
Remember the sweet love story between Tamlin and Feyre that defied immortal tyrants and resulted in great sacrifices in the name of their love?
We were warned that this would be a Hades and Persephone retelling, meaning the romantic relationship between Feyre and Rhysand would be inevitable.
In this case, though, Sarah served you the answer on a silver platter by annihilating the opponent and erasing everything that made the relationship between Feyre and Tamlin good and healthy.
Rhysand was always so thoughtful and considerate and knew what Feyre needed, he was her salvation.
•Now let's get to the relationship between Feyre and Rhysand.
DAMN STRAIGHT.So all I read in the first 40 pages or so was blah blah blah Tamlin blah blah blah Where's Rhys.And then the moment we've been waiting for happened.
MAIN CAUSE OF MY EMOTIONAL TRAUMA RIGHT THERE.I could go on and on forever about the many many many precious Rhys and Feyre moments, but let's talk about that ending.Things were so perfect so far that I was getting scared.
AND THE FUCKING KING OF HYBERN BROKE RHYS AND FEYRE'S MATE BOND.I THOUGHT IT WAS OVER THEN AND THERE.
Sometimes there are no words, and those reviews are the hardest.ACOTAR was a contrary introduction to the series: flawed and splendid, slow and action-packed. It featured a heroine who drove many crazy with her senseless decision-making and a plot which only emerged in the last hundred pages of the book. The rest was mostly romance, and a glimpse into a rich world. And I loved it.  I didn't love the pacing which was split 3-parts-romance, 1-part-action, in a fantasy book. I didn't love the initi
I didn't love the pacing which was split 3-parts-romance, 1-part-action, in a fantasy book.
But I loved the fragments of the world we got to see, and I endlessly loved the flawed characters.The. Flawed.
And Tamlin, who was as big of a puzzle at the end as he was at the beginning.My expectations for ACOMAF were astronomical.
But in that world, with those characters, it would have been a dream.But what I got instead...
Those flawed characters I loved so much who now evolve.
Maas done character development like this.
One, whose development goes exactly as expected - sinister, and cruel, and scheming, and awful.
This took me centuries to finish because I had no time to read BUT now I NEED THE NEXT ONE
I couldn't get enough of the characters, the story, the romance--all of it.First and foremost, I literally see red when people marginalize this series into a love triangle.
It's a hard journey, and at times my heart just broke for Feyre, but by the end of this book I was so, so proud of her.
The way Maas carefully set up this relationship is beautiful and makes you want to go back and re-read the first book.
"I was not a pet, not a doll, not an animal.I was a survivor, and I was strong. I would not be weak, or helpless again. I would not, could not be broken. Tamed." Once upon a time, I decided to give A Court of Thorns and Roses a chance and... I hated everything about it : Feyre's apathy, Tamlin's control-freak issues, the lack of any world-building or, I don't know, plot. Wait - did I say everything? I lied. Hidden in this forest of dullness and platitude, shined Rhysand. That little shit. Cunni
Feyre was blind to his control-freak issues in ACOTAR but I sure wasn't.Tamlin wasn't a good guy in my book, and here's why (all quotes are from A Court of Thorns and Roses)Proof #1 : His need to shelter Feyre was already present"No, I don't want you to live somewhere else.
The way Tamlin keeps hiding things from her in A Court of Mist and Fury was no surprise for me, given the fact that he couldn't be bothered to tell her that she would most likely be RAPED if she got out of her room that day.
Don't look at me like that - what did she do in A Court of Thorns and Roses except painting and swooning over Tamlin?
I can’t tell you if you will like this book- but I can promise you a wild ride of REALISTIC emotions… characters that make mistakes out of broken hearts, characters that are broken, shattered, and misunderstood.
Like Feyre, we soaked up the sparkly love in the book… we didn’t see the warning signs of the relationship that she sacrificed everything for.
YES, Tamlin was only trying to protect her and show her love in his way, but it wasn’t right.
Yes, Tamlin was made out to be a little bit of a monster in this book..
like did we read the same book?
1/2 starThis was a buddy read with these awesome ladies:If you think I'm being unfair and this book is all kinds of awesomeness, Jenn is your girl.
I think we all agree, it's just plain wrong if a middle-aged man tries to get into a teenager's pants.
I was going to write a long ass rant about how terrible this book is, but i just don't have the time.
Someone look up how many times the word "snarl" was used.
The main character be like, I live in a castle with my super hot fiancé, who LOVES THE SHIT OUT OF ME!
Anyone who wants to tell me that I'm exaggerating and that the sex-scenes aren't descriptive or that this book isn't erotica I challenge you: If you're an adult Read aloud the content of these pages to a group of underage kids and see if you don't find yourself in trouble.
(hide spoiler)]SAFETY ISSUES This is for my friends who prefer readings with no cheating no OW (other woman) and OM (other men) (view spoiler)[ As I said in page 20-21 we have a very descriptive sex scene of heroine with other man.
I liked the first book well enough but I was hoping this one would get into more of Rhysand's story and it freaking does!
Tamlin treated her like she was some little thing that could break.
And even though Feyre has powers of the freaking 7 High Lords and she's an immortal fae with a human heart....
From there it's basically piss off Tamlin, it's now all about Rhysand, Feyre and the war they are trying to stop.
The book is large and it didn't get boring at all, I mean everything involving Rhysand and his people were awesome.
I'll be honest, I never fully bought the Tamlin/Feyre line up, even before Rhys, so for me I wasn't completely won over until Under the Mountain happened.
I'm amazed at how quickly I was ready to abandon everything you knew there once Rhys entered the picture (JK not really because Tamlin's no good), but I'm glad things got turned upside down.
Mor, Amren, Cassian, Az: Love you all and thanks for being the best gang around.
I should stop asking myself if it's possible to hate Tamlin anymore, because somehow it keeps happening.
Woo, that was great! A big step up from the first book.This had me laughing and crying multiple times, and I adore the Inner Circle!
If all of SJMs other books didn’t exist and ACOTAR didn’t exist, ACOMAF would be 5 stars for me. But between some obvious issues I have with SJMs writing, and the lack of transition in a lot of things between ACOTAR and ACOMAF, it’s more realistically a 4 star book. But in my heart, and on its own, it is 5. Very detailed review and discussion to come on my channel next week!Edit: on re-read in 2017, I bumped it up to 5 stars. It's always been 5 stars in my heart.
OKSTOP..MY ONLY THING I CAN SAY IS..I AM OFFICIALLY MARRYING RHYSAND
Still the best book evereverevervever
I am broken and healing, but every piece of my heart belong to you. Hole. Lee. Shh. This sequel is stunning. I have not been this entertained and enthralled with a series since my high school Twilight craze.  And I realized—I realized how badly I'd been treated before, if my standards had become so low. If the freedom I'd been granted felt like a privilege and not an inherent right. How could so much happen in one book? How am I in love with every character she creates? Why am I wasting my time
How am I in love with every character she creates?
Why am I wasting my time writing a review when I have book 3 on my end table just waiting for me?
Take the Suriel for example - he has what, maybe 10 pages of the entire book?
If you haven't - STOP and pick up the book already) (view spoiler)[ I could not have imagined a better way to find out Rhysand was her mate.
Book 3 is calling my name and I'm sure as hell not going to keep it waiting.
