https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/646175.Modern_Man_in_Search_of_a_Soul
It is unfortunate that the attempt by the previous generation of parents to 'give' self-esteem to their children has been just as destructive, producing a generation of people with a great deal of confidence but no foundation to base it upon, so they collapse or lash out any time they are challenged.But, looking at Jung's own theories, I came away with the impression that he was just as guilty of "overleaping the various stages of development" in his enthusiasm: he developed grand theories without a foundation, skipping past proofs and evidence in favor of loose anecdotes and flawed studies.In reading earlier thinkers--Hume, Nietzsche, Plato--I found myself constantly confronted with startling insights into human thought, motives, society, and relationships.
but he argued, that in order to provide the best therapy to a patient is to have an unprejudiced objectivity.
however, the only way a person can have such a skillset, is to fully accept himself in this manner, in an unprejudiced objectivity, because a therapist can only provide a solution to a neurosis by stopping the internal battle with oneself.
in any case, read this book if you're interested in experiencing an increase in the knowledge of the mind...even though, there will always be a mystery to the essence of the soul and only the person can provide the answer to that mystery and not the therapist.
Jung was Freud's student--in my opinion this is one case where the student outshines the teacher.
Jung's explanation of creativity is amazing--but his real feat is explaining the modern person who has found traditional religious custom lacking and what he should do next.
The modern man has broken with the past and the masses, is solitary, needs to be sound and proficient,and is both culmination and disappointment and he is conscious of this.
The spirit and body are one and finally, accept that "I am the least of these my brethren." Christian words for universal concepts.
I loved reading his opinons on clergy, art, science, dreams, war, missionaries,archeology, Freud and Adler.
Jung is like the Beatles to me
Modern Man in Search of a Soul is a great introduction to Carl Jung’s theories of analytical psychology.
Jung goes deep inside this forbidden territory and brings to light the nature of our darkness.Much of this book deals with the subterranean part of our mind, the subconscious.
Until we can bring a balance between the two half of our minds, the dark and light, we’ll suffer the spiritual decay that has become a cornerstone of modernity.Jung keeps a complicated subject as straightforward as possible.
Modern Man in Search of a Soul combines elements of psychology, philosophy, religion, spirituality, and metaphysics.
Jung's lecture "The Spiritual Problem of Modern Man" is so very rich and entirely relevant, still, today. It was delivered in Zurich in 1931 at the cusp of another horrific war. I forgot what a plain-spoken sage he could be at times, deep, elegant and never denying our capacity for both good and evil. I'm still digesting ... If you read only one essay by Carl Jung, this should be the one.
Nowadays, we take much of Jung's point of view for granted.
His theories of archetypes, the collective unconscious, holistic approach to body, mind and soul, and the reality of visionary experience have become as acceptable or much more acceptable to many of us than Freud's theories of traumas arising predictably in the family of origin and not having any connection to anything in the real world.
This book seems a bit hard to read because he is writing at a time when no one accepted his work -- not like now, when he has accomplished the great feat of changing how we think.
This book is a series of essays and lectures, originally collected and translated into French by Dr. Roland Cahen, around the end of WWII.
It is an excellent introduction to the extended work of the Swiss psychologist, since it covers a wide range of topics on Jung’s analytical psychology (as opposed to Freud’s psychoanalysis?), such as:- The unconscious, personal and collective,- The structure of the psyche, including the conscious functions (feeling, intuition, thought, sensation… this hypothesis will later be developed into what we now know as the MBTI personality types), the unconscious functions (memory, subjective contributions, affects, bursting in of the unconscious).
For every unconscious growth, the conscious mind suffers a loss.
Jung’s inability to take to task Christianity effectively leaves a bit to be desired, but, that’s just like…my opinion, man.
This is fantastic work, particularly for anyone wanting to explore the origins of modern psychology, as well as to juxtapose Jung’s ethos with Freud’s.
Jung effectively takes Freud to task regarding Freud’s gross reductionism of the unconscious mind.
They suffer when pure logic fails, and I believe Jung knew why: Perspectivism, or lack thereof, and a denial/ ignorance of the all powerful, unconscious forces which drive our existence.

ترجیح میدهم نه ریویو بنویسم و نه امتیاز بدهم.
ترجیح می‌دهم نه ریویو بنویسم و نه امتیاز بدهم.
Rather than waste a lot of time discussing the development of psychology, the rest of the review is going to be a scattershot series of impressions about a (fairly) seminal text in modern culture.• As a therapist, I’d take Jung over Freud, but in terms of scathing observations into the nature of humanity, I’ll take the Austrian. • Still, Freud was completely batshit, I’m glad someone got to point that out.• Then again, collective memory is also garbage and I don’t know how anyone could seriously
Rather than waste a lot of time discussing the development of psychology, the rest of the review is going to be a scattershot series of impressions about a (fairly) seminal text in modern culture.•	As a therapist, I’d take Jung over Freud, but in terms of scathing observations into the nature of humanity, I’ll take the Austrian.
•	Still, Freud was completely batshit, I’m glad someone got to point that out.•	Then again, collective memory is also garbage and I don’t know how anyone could seriously hold to it.
Human thought cannot conceive any system or final truth that could give the patient what they need in order to live: that is faith, hope, love and insight.
These four highest achievements of human effort are so many gifts of grace, which are neither to be taught nor learned, neither given nor taken, neither withheld nor earned, since they come through experience, which is something "given", and therefore beyond the reach of human caprice.
We can draw closer to them that much lies within our human reach.
There are ways which bring us nearer to living experience, yet we should beware of calling these ways "methods." The very word has a deadening effect.
These affinities show clearly how in Latin, Greek and Arabic the names given to the soul are related to the notion of moving air, the "cold breath of the spirit." And this is also why the primitive point of view endows the soul with an invisible breath-body.’ (181)- The collective unconscious, moreover, seems not to be a person, but something like an unceasing stream or perhaps an ocean of images and figure which drift into consciousness in our dreams or in abnormal states of mind.
This collection of essays serves as a nice primer to his mature thought and how he viewed his practice of psychology alongside those of his peers.
Trained as a doctor, and one immersed in the new, growing discipline of psychology, he was naturally inclined toward an empirical, scientific view of human problems related to the mind.
In this collection, however, he shows time and again how his practice had led him to find that a spiritual component of the mind, broadly speaking, needed to be accounted for in the treatment of his patients.
Ok, so I wrote a review for this book before I finished it, assuming that it would be adequate.
Aside from that, the last chapter provides more insight about the job/responsibilities of a psychotherapist than any other part of the book.
It really puts in perspective modern man compared to his ancestors of hundreds and even thousands of years ago.
Carl Gustav Jung, who is known to be the original champion of the theory of "the collective unconscious", tends to use his idea of collective unconscious as punctuation in this book.
This "introductory" book, I believe, has provided an almost perfect analysis and expression of the "soul" of the modern man.
The words struck at my very core, with each page forcing me to stare at it for a very long while.
Jung is truly the artist he speaks of in this book:"Art is a kind of innate drive that seizes a human being and makes him its instrument.
As a human being he may have moods and a will and personal aims, but as an artist he is " man " in a higher sense-he is " collective man "-one who carries and shapes the unconscious, psychic life of mankind.
Freud always takes the most reductive route, because his focus is on justifying psychology as a science and science is purposely reductive.
(I realize now that he wasn't nearly reductive enough to meet current scientific standards.) But Jung corrects a lot of Freud by placing some of the theories that Freud thought of as fundamental in a larger context, and also by seeing around Freud's myopic view of religion.
Something is lost by taking this new approach.
It's a lot more speculative and vague, but nevertheless Jung's overall worldview is closer to something I could actually accept than Freud's.
What most of European philosophers at the time meant by ancient history was something like two or three thousand years, while Jung thought way past that into deep history.
And Jung believed that as a consequence of manifesting a particular set of human behaviors over hundreds of thousands, and perhaps millions of years, we therefore also evolved a cognitive apparatus that was capable of representing those way of behavior.
Jung truly believed that the Modern Man had lost his soul, and that it was of the highest importance to find our way thought the intellectual and spiritual struggle that man has been entangled in since the death of god.
Still, I enjoy reading vintage Jung since his relentless probing of the human psyche seems to have given him a sagacity causing such wise observation as from "Stages of Life," "The nearer we approach to the middle of life, and the better we have succeeded in entrenching ourselves in our personal attitudes and social positions, the more it appears as if we had discovered the right course and the right ideals and principles of behavior.
And so it comes about that all modern "psychologies without the psyche” are studies of consciousness which ignore the existence of unconscious psychic life.” Thus, Jung is revealed as a subtle spiritualist.
تا زمانی که برخورد با نفس وجود نداشته باشد،تا زمانی که انسان با خویشتن به جدال برنخیزد،احساس آزامش ندارد:اگر انسان با هیاکل درونی در جدال نباشد ،در همان سطح خویش باقی می ماند. اما اگر با خویشتن کلنجار رود،پس از جدال،نوعی نجات و رهایی احساس می کند که برایش آرامش خاطر به همراه دارد.
This book contains 11 essays that are aimed at giving the reader a comprehensive overview of Jungs'theories and opinions, which mainly pertain to a non-religious spiritual rebalancing of the psyche.
Although the first few chapters sail by with comparative ease, more concentration is required in the latter half which requires more thought and consideration to what is being implied, those people more used to self-help and quick fix pop-psychology literature will probably be over taxed by the rather academic syntax.
It has been so long since I read this book that I barely remember it.
It is very much about dream analysis, and Jung seeks to convey the experience of psychoanalysis from the perspective of the analyst.
It also underscores the importance of the unconscious, which endeavors to speak to the self through dreams.
What made a lasting impression, though, was Jung's discussion of modern society, and the dilemma of anyone trying to live in a world that runs contrary to basic human needs.
We need quiet in order to uncover our deepest thoughts.
In the modern world, time for introspection is comes at a premium.
I feel a little sheepish to say that this is the longest work I've ever read by Jung.
It was a good introduction, though, and I'm looking forward to trying some of his other writing.
I think the first portion of the book would be hard for someone who isn't familiar with Freud and the the emergence of psychoanalysis, but anyone with a basic grasp should manage all right.
The later portion is much easier to read, ha, but equally informative.
Throughout, Jung maintains a frank tone which seems to fit his conclusions well.
Bu öylesi bir yöneliş ki sorma... Birkaç cümleyle çıkamıyoruz içimizden! Bilinçli, bilinçsiz, düşleri ve gerçek yaşamıyla biz, hayat...Gizli, apaçık, görmek istediklerimiz ve gözden kaçanlar, kaygılar, sanrılar, dile pelesenk olmuş kelimelerimiz ve çıkarımlarımız.. Hepsi veya belki de her Carl Gustav Jung kitabında bir parçası saklıydı. Bilmiyorum tek kitapla anlamlanacak adamlardan değil ki Jung ve hayat!
Some chapters are much better than others, but the best in this book is worth returning to again and again. Jung's imaginative, expansive, playful yet serious view of psychology's role and scope is invigorating, even if not always accurate. Like Freud, even when Jung is wrong, he's brilliantly wrong.
totally unrelated.
Wide-ranging in its ambition, this work covers Jung's experience with patients through to questions of life, existence, religion and eternity.
That said he is not pious and still makes digs at the limitations of both Freud and Adler.The central theme seems to be one that the decline of religion and traditional belief systems, has been replaced by a relativist swamp that leaves many unsatisfied and quite possibly fuels mental illness.
Whatever brings true meaning to life is a better solution to much mental illness that drugs and therapy can only ameliorate.
The first, at least one middle, and the last chapters were brilliant though.
Somewhere in the middle chapters - Freud concentrates too much on sex and Addler too much on power.
Last chapter - People have a spiritual void that they must fill, whether they like it or not.
Religion doesn't seem to fill that role for many (most) of modern people in the west.
Psychiatrists/Psychologists are doing what they can to explain that void.
This void will be one of the biggest for modern people in the west.
Why do you think people are asking you what your sign is all the time?
Lots of food for thought.
