https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/539387.The_Holy_Bible
This is the only book I've read through cover to cover more than twice.
It is the only book I read every day.
Here is a list of my favorites from The Bible:Favorite Psalms - Psalms 32Favorite Judge - DeborahFavorite Proverb - Chapter 30 Favorite Pentateuch - DeuteronomyFavorite Military Leader - JoshuaFavorite Priest - SamuelFavorite Major Prophet (in terms of documents written) - DanielFavorite Minor Prophet - Zechariah Favorite King - JosiahFavorite Disciple - AndrewFavorite Apostle - BarnabasFavorite Letter From Paul - GalatiansFavorite Letter From the Others - James, maybe 2nd Peter Favorite Gospel - JohnFavorite Chapter - John 14Favorite Verse - John 14:1Favorite Person - Jesus
The Jesus portrayed by the gospels is an awful model of how to live your life.
Why live out your life helping the poor and healing the sick or god forbid being a good example to people?
Overall this is an angry, confused book written by a bunch of savages who tried to make the world make sense, just like people have done since the beginning of time.
Don't worry though, 99% of them will never read the bible and instead take other people's word on something that they claim is the most important thing in their lives.
It took me about a year but this was by far the best book I have read and will ever read it has every kind of story in it you could look for, true stories, figurative stories fantacies very very good. I recomend all to read at least LEAST once in there life time there is a reason it is called the best story ever told.
I learned about my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Also, the source of life, the result of the fall, the redemptive love of God, how to live, how to love, how to die, what happens afterward, and the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit.
I read the King James in its original translation and it was not nearly as hard to read as most people protest from my view but i see no value over the NKJV as it is a lot more readable and just as accurate unless your dealing with the "king james only" club.
if you can always read a literal translation like the NASB, NKJV, or the ESV.
all good translations go back to the original Greek and Hebrew and have been put under enormous scrutiny to be accurate.
I can really say that it's the only "must read" out there. If you don't have one, get one!
Yes, I know, I'm surely going to hell for giving the Bible only 4 stars. But some of it is really hard to get through.And, this is the one I was presented with when I was confirmed Catholic.Yes, I've actually read all three. And studied them through various theological courses.
OK, I know it may seem trite to put the Bible in among the books I'm currently reading, but there have been some significant changes in my life that compelled me to add it.
First I lost my dad on 9/4/09, and love, prayer, and the Bible are what held me together during that time.
Also, as I've been talking with my therapist in the past couple months, I've had a tremendous breakthrough with my depression, anxiety, agoraphobia...you name it...and it's all because I've been speaking aloud and rebuking whatever it is that is attacking me with Scripture.
Plus, how can you NOT love a Love Letter from God?
So he laid a 13 year siege, forcing the island city of Tyre to accept Babylonian rule, but the city remained intact!The prophesy says that many nations not just Babylon would rise against Tyre as the book Exploring Creation in General Science says:"The Prophesy in Ezekiel states that Nebuchadnezzar will destroy the mainland city, but it says that 'they' will throw stones and timbers into the sea.
Seriously, the Bible is my favorite book.
It's got a little of everything in it that I love (history, science, mystery, Mystery, love, romance, explosions and fire, wisdom, prophecy, darkness, poetry, unanswered questions, self-help, tragedy, beauty...)I hate that the author is "Anonymous"; I call him God.THIS particular Bible, I'm reviewing both the translation (NASB) and the publisher (Cambridge).
It's my go-to translation.If you read like I do, though, do yourself a favor, save yourself some money in the long run, and BUY A CAMBRIDGE.
But don't get bogged down with a book so big you can't carry it with you and actually READ it; that's why this edition was so perfect for me: it's luggable!
I love to read the bible.
It's been six years since God got ahold of me, and I'm just finishing my sixth time through the bible.
My hope is to read through it every year for the rest of my life.
NASB is my favorite translation because (1) it's the most literal, and I am an extremely literal person, (2) it's so poetic, especially through Psalms and Proverbs and the major prophets, (3) it's the easiest version to memorize.If you aren't head over heels in love with the Lord, start reading your bible.
I gave my life to Jesus in 1973, and started reading the KJV. After about a month I switched to the NASB version and its been my favorite ever since.
The Messiah is Jesus Christ, who came to this world, to live, die and ressurreced after three days for me and for you.The plan seems to be very simple but it involves faith.
It involves believing that Jesus is the Son of God, that He is the Christ.John 1:11,12 says: "(JESUS) came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him.
A relationship of guidance, protection, involved by His love.Do not let sin be an obstacle for not being with God, but allow Jesus to be the bridge to reach God.I usually say that we are on one side of the abysm and God is on the other.
The paper is an off white color, and is non reflective which many people like in a compact Bible.
The paper is edged with gold gild, which looks very nice with the navy blue cover.In the Front1.
Since then, it has become known simply as the "NASB" and has supplanted the 1971 text in most current printings (although the Thompson Chain Reference Bibles, the Open Bibles, and the Key Word Study Bibles still use the 1977 text for their NASB editions).My Personal OpinionI like the style of this cover, the design is simple yet elegant.
I also like the rich navy blue color.
The New American Standard Bible Compact edition can make a very elegant gift for someone on the go
Rather, reading the Word of God is crucial to my walk with God. Knowing His Word allows me to better know His wisdom and will.
There have been some mornings where I'm not sure if I'll be able to get out of bed, but now when I read the Bible, it's become my oxygen." I couldn't say it any better, Mr. Chapman.

Of the three versions of the Bible that I've read thus far (NIV, King James, and NASB), I found the NASB to be the one that spoke to me most clearly and most lovingly.
By that I mean that reading the NASB was like having a conversation with an old friend, sitting by a soft fire in comfortable chairs, discussing the ways of God and all that He has done for us.
I highly recommend it for anyone interested in reading the Bible straight through.
The word of God resonates in my heart with the NASB.
No matter what your background or worldview, this book is a must read.
It is easily the most studied/challenged book ever written, not to mention the one that has had the biggest impact on world history.
As a section in John explains, "For God so loved the world that He sent His only Son (Jesus), that whoever believes in Him will not perish but have everlasting life." The Bible is more than a story- it has the power to impact the way you view the world, the way you view yourself, and ultimately the way you view God.
"For the earth will be filled With the knowledge of the glory of the Lord,As the waters cover the sea." Habakkuk 2: 14It doesn't seem to matter how many times I read the Bible, it doesn't matter how often I read those last words in Revelation "The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all.
Amen." The next morning I open it again, usually a different translation, but once again I read the words "In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth" I'm pulled in all over again.
And now it's time to switch to a different translation and start once again for the ninetieth time.
Eighty nine down, who knows how many to go.
Did you know most (if not all) serial killers come from religious families? Also, that this book consists of incest, bestiality, sexism, racism, and polygamy?Then goes and says "love one another"?This book repeatedly contradicts itself to the point of it being comical and repeatedly insults the intelligence of the reader. The characters were shoddy, I couldn't follow the plot, and the man character was so far-fetched I couldn't believe a word of it.Considering this was written over 100 years after Jesus died, it's no wonder.
خوندن کتابهای مذهبی برای من سخته. ولی وقتی از منظر یه متن ادبی بهشون نگاه میکنم قضیه یکسره متفاوت میشه. در مورد این کتاب، توصیهی من دستکم خواندن کتاب جامعه از عهد عتیقه. متن فوقالعادهایه.
خوندن کتاب‌های مذهبی برای من سخته. ولی وقتی از منظر یه متن ادبی بهشون نگاه می‌کنم قضیه یکسره متفاوت میشه. در مورد این کتاب، توصیه‌ی من دست‌کم خواندن کتاب جامعه از عهد عتیقه. متن فوق‌العاده‌ایه.

Seek the LORD and His strength, seek His face continually.Psalm 105v4
پيش گفتارمقدمهپيشينه ي تاريخي عهد جديدپيشينه ي يهوديپيشينه ي غير يهودينگاهي اجمالي به زندگي عيسي مسيحخلاصه و توضيحاتنامه هاي پولس:نامه به علاطياننامه ها به تسالونيكياننامه ها به قرنتياننامه به رومياننامه هاي نوشته شده در اسارتفيلپيانفليمونكولسيانانجيلهاي هم نگار و كتاب اعمالانجيل مرقسانجيل متيانجيل لوقاكتاب اعمالنامه ها به كشيشاننامه هاي خطاب به تيموتاوسنامه به تيطسنامه به افسسياننامه هاي سرگشاده به كليساهااول پطرسنامه ي يعقوبنامه هاي يوحنادوم پطرسيهودانامه به عبرانيانمكاشفه يوحناانجيل يوحناتوضيحات مترجمگزيده كتاب شناسييك كتاب منسجم و خوب براي دريافت دركي كلي از آنچه مسيحيان درباره ي مسيح و آموزه هاي كتاب مقدس – عهد جديد – مي گويند.
كتاب با آوردن پيشينه هايي از آنچه قبل از مسيح بود، زندگي مسيح و آموزه هايش و اينكه انجيل ها چگونه شكل گرفته اند – به خلاصه ترين و چكيده ترين شكل ممكن – به بحث هايي كوتاه در مورد هر كدام از كتاب هاي عهد جديد مي پردازد.
Read the bible in a year, some stretches were hard, Leviticus and some prophets, the disadvantage of reading it in a year is the lacking of depth in a passage for there is only so much time the advantage is that you read the whole book and it is awesome to see all 66 books connect. It is powerful, the word of God
Finally finished it, cover to cover. The ending smells of fresh tulips.
Always Reading! Romans 15:4 For whatever was written in earlier times was written for our instruction, so that through perseverance and the encouragement of the Scriptures we might have hope.
It's only taken me twenty years, but I finally read the whole Bible through. This book is full of so many truths.
It feels silly to rate the Bible - it's God's Word, of course it's good! I just wanted a record that I read through the NASB version this year.
This Bible is all three.I do LOVE the NASB translation.
It is one of my top three translations of choice.
I ended with Revelation.
I tend to always begin and end the same way.
I like to read the first five books together--the books of the law, the torah.
I like to always, always, always finish with the works of John.
I read John, 1 John, 2 John, 3 John, and Revelation as my last five books.
I've also started to save the book of Psalms for my last read in the Old Testament.I'm not sure which translation I'll tackle next.
