https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12500141-the-second-gong
First published in 1932, this story was later extended into a novella length version, “Dead Man’s Mirror.” This, original version, sees a house party at Lytcham Close, home of the eccentric Hubert Lytcham Roche.
The controlling Hubert Lytcham Roche is a stickler for certain behaviour from his guests – including silence while music is playing and punctuality at dinner.
However, was it the first, or second gong, they heard?Other guests include secretary, Geoffrey Keene, Hubert’s wife and their adopted daughter, Diana Cleves, the financier, Gregory Barling and a certain Belgian detective, with an egg-shaped head… Poirot had been invited by Hubert Lytcham Roche, who asked him to investigate a sensitive matter for him but, when he is found dead, a suspected suicide, it is up to Poirot to discover the truth.
Wow, that was a very quick solve. Wouldn't t be great if we had detectives around when needed and able to move so quickly in real life?
Tidy little mystery with my favorite detective.
Would have liked this better as a full length novel. Felt a bit rushed.
This audio version runs about an hour. Fun if you already like Christie, but not the best of her work.
Well, that was unexpected. I think, of all of the short stories I have read this year, this one was the most altered when it went from page to screen. While that meant that I could listen to the story without feeling like I already knew everything that was going to happen, it also meant that I sat here with a furrowed brow, trying to figure out the changes and what that would mean for the conclusion. Very enjoyable though, worth a read (or listen).
ইংরেজীটা পড়েছিলাম আগে। আজকে অনুবাদটা পড়লাম। ইসমাইল আরমান ভাই-এর শেষ যাতরায় এর অনুবাদ আছে। এজনযই সেবাকে ভালো লাগে। মূল বই পড়ে যে মজা পেয়েছিলাম, অনুবাদ পড়েও তাই পেলাম।অসাধারণ অনুবাদ। গলপ মোটামুটি। অনয যে কারও চাইতে হয়ত ভালো, কিনতু আগাথা হিসেবে তেমন অসাধারণ নয়।
ইংরেজীটা পড়েছিলাম আগে। আজকে অনুবাদটা পড়লাম। ইসমাইল আরমান ভাই-এর শেষ যাত্রায় এর অনুবাদ আছে। এজন্যই সেবাকে ভালো লাগে। মূল বই পড়ে যে মজা পেয়েছিলাম, অনুবাদ পড়েও তাই পেলাম।অসাধারণ অনুবাদ। গল্প মোটামুটি। অন্য যে কারও চাইতে হয়ত ভালো, কিন্তু আগাথা হিসেবে তেমন অসাধারণ নয়।
A classic locked room mystery, solved with only with the flair Hercule Poirot can bring.
A Hercule Poirot short story. A clever locked room mystery.
Not my favorite Christie short story, but Poirot once again figures out what we'd consider an unsolvable murder.
A version of Dead Man’s Mirror.
An excellent short storyAs always Agatha Christy wrote a good mystery using the talented detective and his little grey cells. I enjoyed this short story.
Good story, but too short.
The only other work I have read by Agatha Christie is an all-time favorite of mine, the incomparable And Then There Were None (AKA Ten Little Indians).
This short story was interesting, but a little formulaic for my liking.
Maybe that's not entirely fair, as Christie is one of the authors responsible for creating the formula.
As the story progressed, I was reminded more and more of Sherlock Holmes in the sense that the reader is not given all of the information necessary to work out the mystery.
Krátka poviedka, vďaka si ktorej v priebehu hodiny spravíte dokonalú predstavu a majstrovstve Agathy Christie a spoznáte Hercula Poirota. Keďže som počúval počas šoférovania, mená sa mi plietli, ale detektívka proste nie je bulvár, takže je treba byť pozorný.
Nice little story c quick read
First Poirot book for me...same type of mystery, but I am a bit partial to Miss Marple's character...we'll see...maybe Poirot will grow on me
Cute storey to read in one night
Got a spare 15 minutes?
