https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/347395.Generation_of_Vipers
I found this book at a bus stop when I was a teenager. It's mind-opening effect was profound and indelible. It seemed that the book had been left there for me to find. Ever since, I have not been able to convince myself that the universe is totally indifferent.
interesting bits of thought, and a lovely narrator voice. on the same time incredibly dated and very ptetentiously opinionated in modt subjects.
Although it could be construed as an exercise in paranoia this book is a fun read. Everyone, bankers, doctors, professors, gets a piece from Mr. Wiley so don't fret. Read it, be offended, and deal.
I read an earlier edition in the 1950s.One of the really good books
Like most, the initial sense of amazement at Wylie's depth of insight as a social critic left me with a lingering question about each 'new' issue that pops up... "Now what was it Wylie said about that?" If it doesn't spring straight to mind I go back to that well-worn first edition.
Wow. This is a book to keep.
This is a great, long-forgotten scathing examination of American morality and society. A bit too misogynistic for my taste, however.
I read this book in 1954 when I was 13. I thought it was great then. I am not sure I would have the same opinion if I were to reread it now.
I haven't finished this book, but did read 50%. By then, it became drivel. Interesting, tho, for its immediate (during WWII) perspective on society. Author has some noteworthy, and often absurd, ideas on society. Found it on the streets of Astoria, Queens, summer 2017
As a radicalized college student in the late 60's, a creative writing instructor pointed this book out to me.
A blistering inditement of our beliefs and our actions from an extremely perceptive eye.
It will shatter some taken-for-granted personal beliefs, that deserve to be shattered...
So that a more 'honest' set may replace them, or it will incense you because some deeply held beliefs are attacked and challenged.
Needs to be re-read every decade or so, just to knock some sense back in to our auto-pilot lives.
Too bad it will never be widely read...
Interesting but somewhat uneven. The bitter and erudite Mr Wylie was a couple decades ahead of his time on sexual mores, and does a good job on ripping the state of education, politicians, and statesman. He's a bit soggier when trying to postulate on his solutions for what he seems to think is wrong - name-dropping some of the biggies in psychiatry, rambling about "instinctiveness"... not so hot on that front.His thoughts on women obviously reek of being a bit dated but probably have more kernels of truth in them than is fashionable to admit nowadays.
This was a book club choice. I had a deuce of a time getting into it. I did finish it. None of the characters struck an interest. The translation and ignorance of some of the topics was part of my disinterest.
This book lives up to the hype! Its very dense in a good way, think like a chocolate fondue made from fresh Amazonian cacao. His slapping of the "American way" from the 1940's is still relevant today because we're still the same America!
I read quite a bit of Wylie when I was an undergraduate. I found him very thought provoking.
