https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1347589.Three_O_Clock_Dinner
I discovered Josephine Pinckney, through Dorethea Benton Frank.
She had written about Josephine in her latest novel, "The Last Original WIfe."Intrigued by her notes about Ms. Pickney, I set out to find her novels.
Aunt Quince and her son Lucian share a house and an acerbic wit.Wick and Etta live in a lovely home on the Battery, in what was once called "the borough." Judith, their oldest son, Fen's widow, lives down the road, and Tat, the younger son, lives with his parents.
The climax comes in a Sunday dinner that is a comedy of manners, and reveals secrets that rock the family.
What a pleasant surprise!
A friend, who wasn't at all crazy about this, gave this to me as I'd recommended her after reading a Dorothea Benton Frank book that mentioned her (Thanks for that!).
I read, "Great Mischief" and wasn't at all turned on, but this one was everything promised.
Great portrayal of life in this part of the country, even mid-century.
Pinckney takes into account political, social, and even the natural world.
Verbose, and maybe a bit choppy, but so glad I read this.
I want to check out "Hilton Head" next, but see that isn't even in Goodreads for review...
I first came across Josephine Pickney in a novel by Dorothea Benton Frank titled The Last Original Wife.
The novel set in Charleston spends a significant amount of time in Charleston and on the life and times of Ms. Pickney.
Quite a novel filled with a narrative expressing the Southern lifestyle and way of living pre WWII.
I enjoyed the novel although the language at times became a bit cumbersome.
I am so glad I stretched myself to read this novel.
The writing was a bit clunky, but the history in the story was really interesting.
2.5stars
It took awhile to get into. It might have been the author's way to build up to the climax of the story. Really remarkably well written. A family of blue bloods in Charleston, SC have a family crisis... complete with a storm on the Battery to usher in the climax. Full of trivia about Charleston and the lifestyle / customs of SOB's. Written in 1945. Would read again.
Setin Charleston, written and published in 1945, "produced in compliance with all war production board conservaton orders." It's OK, but there are other things I'd rather read. May finish it sometime.
How nice to read words penned by another Carolina Girl from so many years ago! Lovely, lyrical words written in a time of pending great change. This book will make your heart happy.
Dorothea Benton Frank
Barbara Bellow's introduction is better than the book. This fictional account of a way of life that no longer exists is tired and outdated with characters it is difficult to care about.
It was a nice story.
