https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/247000.The_Mezzanine
At almost 6:45pm, I approached my house, noticing with annoyance that the bin men   had left the bins obstructing the driveway. I got out of the car, leaving the engine running ² , put the bins in their proper place, and drove the final few metres, parking in the shade of the laurel. I noticed it needed pruning, and worried that if we didn’t do it soon, our delightful neighbours might be put to the embarrassing inconvenience of having a quiet word.As I walked to the front door, I spotted a weed,
A secondary factor is that popping a few bubbles of a Jiffy bag condemns the whole thing to the dustbin (I wonder if bin men are ever tempted to pop things), whereas popping the corner of a piece of bubble wrap merely means cutting off a small piece, and keeping the rest.⁷ Footnotes are necessary because “the outer surface of truth is not smooth, welling and gathering from paragraph to shapely paragraph, but is encrusted with a rough protective bark of citations, quotation marks, italics… the anticipatory pleasure of sensing with peripheral vision… a gray silt of further example and qualification waiting in tiny type at the bottom.” ----------------------------------------Quotes• “Shoes are the very first adult machines we are given to master.”• Creases in shoes “like the line of the heart and the line of the head in palmistry”.

Don't do it.Number 1 is easily explained – you’ll never get it back and if you do this person who eagerly seized it and claimed that she wished to do nothing other than devote her next waking moments to reading it six months later will not only not have done so but will have forgotten that she borrowed it and where she put it.
As for rule number two, I have met a few people who read one book a year and then wish to immediately lend it to me because they know I like books – yes, I do, but that doesn’t necessarily mean I like all books, and I really don’t want to read Bravo Two Zero by Andy McNab.Anyway, yes, The Mezzanine.
I don’t want my behaviour to appear to these passengers, who watch you out of boredom, as odd, and I don’t want it to seem as though I’m dithering because I’m somehow repelled by their presence.* It’s important to have this sensitivity on a night train, when all passengers are potential rapists and murderers, until proven otherwise.So I find a seat on the left row in between two solo passengers, with a gap of about three seats in front and two seats behind, with another man two seats ahead on the right row.
There is no point reading like this.As the train picks up people from other stops, the pressure of concentrating my mind and my eyes becomes impossible, so I stop reading and wait until the women get off.
The rest is just filigree and details fracturing and fractaling into discussions of straws, milk cartons, urinals, urination, papertowls, escalator etiquette, etc.
I remember first being exposed to Nicholson Baker right after I left high school.
Anyway, this novel isn't one of Baker's dirty bits.
It is just an exploration of details of bits.
I think it was Stephen King who once remarked that Baker book Vox was a “meaningless little finger paring.” But that is really where Baker's genius lies.
All those forgotten parings, those little details can be infinitely described.
Baker glances at an escalator and describes a universe.
As often happens, Baker gave us some insight in the book itself:"Observe, in short, how transient and trivial is all mortal life; yesterday a drop of semen, tomorrow a handful of spice and ashes.""Manifestly, no condition of life could be so well adapted for the practice of philosophy as this in which chance finds you today!""Chance found me that day having worked for a living all morning, broken a shoelace, chatted with Tina, urinated successfully in a corporate setting, washed my face, eaten half of a bag of popcorn, bought a new set of shoelaces, eaten a hot dog and a cookie with some milk; and chance found me now sitting in the sun on a green bench, with a paperback on my lap.
Not that that's a problem for me, for obvious reasons, and for all I know, I have underestimated the power of sight, and no matter how small the type is, people can read it with no issues, but I do wonder...** 651, really, since the copyright information and other minutia I skip takes up the first ten pages, and the actual book begins on page eleven.* Fuck, I hate HTML.
It can't be easy to write a book about everyday life's nothingness.
The novel is written in a stream-of-consciousness kind of manner, except the thoughts aren't incomplete or muddled up.
This book too has that kind of a feel, to an extent.
The narrator is in awe of every not-at-all-fascinating thing that we barely ever pay a thought to.
I liked how the narrator would often re-visit his childhood days and build up on his thoughts from back then.
I found a few 5-star reviews where the readers seemed to have found it a tedious read, but ended up liking it 5-stars worth.
Whatever happened to predictabilityThe milkman, the paperboy, evening TVHow did I get delivered hereSomebody tell me, pleaseThis old world's confusing me  The corporate environment has changed a lot since 1990. These days, memos are no longer circulated in hard copy, and the stapler is something of an arcane object. The world has moved on. We no longer lament the loss of the milkman or paper straws (who knew that straws used to be made from paper!) But many things remain the same: the implicit
Whatever happened to predictabilityThe milkman, the paperboy, evening TVHow did I get delivered hereSomebody tell me, pleaseThis old world's confusing me
We no longer lament the loss of the milkman or paper straws (who knew that straws used to be made from paper!) But many things remain the same: the implicit rules of coworker acknowledgement, elevator etiquette, the bathroom awkwardness.
The book is filled with observations such as this: (have you ever noticed that) while women will say "oops", men will almost always say it in the singular, as "oop".
This book is so good.
It's about something I've wondered about and been fascinated by but have remained unable to articulate for almost my entire life: how the material culture and physical environment of our time and place shape human experience.
I've been interested in that idea since I was a little kid but have never understood how to conceptualize it clearly.At the moment I can't think of many things more exciting than discovering a novel that addresses a huge question you've had for so long that you've stopped noticing you wanted it answered.
It's kind of the best thing in the world.
I feel a guardedly renewed faith in fiction, and by extension, the world.
I fold the yellow tabs around to seal it all in and press it into the open lid of the Diaper Genie, an alien spaceship-like thing that opens and swallows and digests within itself all the stink and mess of an infant's expulsive habits.
There's a moment in this book when the narrator recalls a habit of his as a child: he would sweep his garage floor as clean as possible and place in its center an old, rusty, mundane object, such as a railroad spike.
As a 27-year-old experimental novel, I was afraid the style might be dated, but quite the opposite: I think readers today might feel this book's reverence for the physical world, even a late 20th-century American physical world dominated by franchises and cheesy corporate culture, even more deeply and sincerely than they did upon this book's publication.It is probably the happiest book of literary fiction I've ever read.
One can interpret the chipper tone of the narrator's voice cynically, as someone so hopped up on his meds that he claims to feel "honored" to work at a place with a working paper towel dispenser.
But his book still left me feeling happy and connected to the world, go figure.What is the mezzanine?
This is the book for those readers who like a protagonist they can identify with. Ever break a shoelace? And for gods' sake don't skip the footnotes.
I had a name for the "personality type" of the narrator: "Protected dork".
The importance of small talk.
Those are all hallmarks of the "protected dork" to me.
(Related to the protected dork are people who eat tuna fish sandwiches.
I still feel the self hatred for not being functional in day to day society as this guy is.
He doesn't know the rules (more like tolerated small talk) but he's protected.
Sure, I like to think my stupid thoughts are better than shoelaces and straws.
I'm just miserable, is all.I don't feel normal reading other goodreads reviews of this book.

It's hard to rate this book, because on many levels it is brilliant.
I soon found,as many have, that there was a way to drink no-handed with those new floating straws:you had to bend low to the table and grasp the almost horizontal straw with your lips, steering it back down into the can..."And on and on...We learn about shoelaces, vending machines and a lot, a bunch!, about the men's bathroom, down to the evolution of perforated toilet paper.
It's hilarious, yet I found, as with all hilarious but mundane books, it could only be taken in small doses.
Nicholson Baker picks up little details and riffs on them, spending pages nesting digression within digression (with the aid of liberal footnoting), cumulatively highlighting how we're shaped by the minutiae of the world around us.There was a great deal of recognizing myself in the main character's musings, and my enjoyment of this book may have been exaggerated by the fact that I could probably be diagnosed with OCD.
I'll definitely be reading more Nicholson Baker.(And, if you've read it, you'll appreciate this: A few weeks into my new job, the laces on both of my dress shoes broke in the same week!
I, too, have wondered, based on the handrail of an escalator moving faster than the steps, how often the handrail laps the steps!
And I had to read the perforation footnote aloud to my puzzled husband trying to explain how perfect this book is, and how seriously funny it is and at the same time how the evocation of a texture of our lives -- like the perfect description of that satisfaction in the two-stage resistance of a stapler -- creates something that feels like nostalgia, but more substantial.
I had read about this book enough times to know what to expect, I just didn't expect to find it moving.
The head of the main hero is freighted with such outright trash and garbage that he keeps mentally digesting that he has no time to live his life.“The pursuit of truth doesn't have clear outer boundaries: it doesn't end with the book; restatement and self-disagreement and the enveloping sea of referenced authorities all continue.”One has enough time to consume but one hardly has enough time to start living.
I found myself at times laughing harder and yep-me-tooing over footnotes in a way that sometimes DF Wallace can’t even touch.And but so that should tell you quite a bit.Shoelaces, paper towels in restrooms, coffee mugs, drinking straws.
You agree with his assessments, and in many cases credit yourself, ie “Yeah, I feel the same way!” He writes in the way that a friend can tease out the best humor in you; he knows how to access that Big Something, and he gift-wraps it for you.Baker is thus either the master of our thoughts or the perfect conduit in which to apply attempts at brainwashed materials.
It feels right, the way he writes.
I loved this kooky, obsessive book. It was like Baker was inside my brain.
Ever wondered about the architectural similarities between locomotives, phonograph tonearms, and staplers?
(I know nothing about phonograph tonearms, actually) How about the twilight age and slow death of bottled milk delivery?
Or, and this is the crux of the novel, the ins and outs of shoelace wear and tear?Baker has wondered about all these things, and his narrator has drawn some interesting conclusions.
And though I do remember stapled CVS bags, plastic bags have been in widespread use for my whole life, so the minutiae concerning holding paper bags vs.
plastic bags is, for me, largely academic.I'm not making this book sound as good as it actually is.
Options explored with footnotes: 1) Stop mid sentence, read the footnotes, come back 2) finish the tangent, go back and read the footnotes 3) screw these footnotes.
But I never chose option 3 for fear that I might miss something crucial, regarding broken shoelaces, the buoyancy of paper straws, whistling in the men's room, or the killing of brain cells reinforcing a practical intelligence by scars and dendrites sprawled in exquisite exploration.
All on an escalator going up, in a lunch break.
And nothing happens...aside from mild fractures resembling major breaks in epiphany.
This book is simply dull.
I knew before starting that the book was essentially plotless, but I had hoped, rashly, that it wouldn't also be pointless.
The narrator witters on about the patterns of wear on his shoelaces, the varieties of escalator experience, and how he puts on his socks.
None of it is particularly interesting, none of it has any kind of unifying theme or point, unless maybe the point is to underline the utter banality of most day to day experience.
I'll never understand the critical praise this book apparently got.
Not all ideas are interesting or worthwhile.
WHAT a refreshing read! Written from a unique point of view that rarely makes an appearance in literature. As much as I enjoyed the little idiosyncracies, sadly it just wasn't my cup of tea.
|\| | |_ @ ® > M0127324:کتاب عجیب و جالبی بود اما واقعا داستان و ماجرایی نداشت، و به معنای واقعی کلمه یک ناداستان بود!دقت و تیزبینی وسواس گونه شخصیت اول_راوی کتاب گاه واقعا نبوغ آمیز بود و گاه خیلی خسته کننده و غیرضروری!شخصیت اول خیلی جاها من رو یاد شخصیت اول رمان زیبای پروژه رزی انداخت، البته به دور از ماجرای جذاب و طنز دوست داشتنی آن کتاب.در مجموع نمیشه گفت کتاب رو دوست نداشتم، اما مطالعه ش رو هم به هر کسی پیشنهاد نمیکنم.
The rest is commentary on just about every mundane activity that could possibly happen on such an "adventure." If you're already saying to yourself, "oh, one of THOSE books," bail out now.
Nicholson gets super excited about things in life that no one ever thinks about, like the ridges on an escalator, or the evolution of straws, or even an extended hypotheses of how exactly a shoelace breaks.
It's clever and hilarious and possibly profound, depending on your own ability to want to think about things like that.
Baker's digressive novel contains copious footnotes, some of which are several pages long, while following the ruminations of Howie as he contemplates a variety of everyday objects and occurrences, including how paper milk cartons replaced glass milk bottles, the miracle of perforation, and the nature of plastic straws, vending machines, paper towel dispensers, and popcorn poppers.
The author's hubris at thinking that his disquisition on drinking straws and shoelaces constitutes a novel of humor or ideas or anything else is merely a symptom of the artistic morass of literature at the end of the twentieth century.
"Manifestly, no condition of life could be so well adapted for the practice of philosophy as this in which chance finds you today!" As he says, upon leaving a job, your focus is upended, such that where mostly you felt the importance was the work and job itself, suddenly it seems that the real significance was not the work at all, but your interactions with coworkers, your private thoughts, your trips to the loo, your straightening of ties and smoothing of hair and skirts.
The Mezzanine's obsessive protagonist appeals to my post-grad, corporate working self who also spends most of my working hours 'meditating' over trivial shits (including writing this review).
I particularly enjoyed the Aurelius references and self-aware footnote abuse.
The elevator, possibly the most important motif, reminds me of Rem Koolhaas' The Harvard Design School Guide to Shopping / Harvard Design School Project on the City 2 where he details the dictation of spatial/temporal experience through mundane, everyday technology such as air conditioning, muzak and the gift shop.
The book is packed with tones of literary details, and I can't really be bothered to keep writing since it's lunch time.
