https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114496.The_Manticore
The Foreigners We DeserveA remarkable journey of Jungian psychoanalysis.
Freud thought in terms of flaws in the psyche brought about through trauma, Jung in terms of psychic purpose and its adaptations.
Aesthetically, however, Jung takes the upper hand; and Davies knows why: human beings are remarkably elegant creatures even at their least attractive.
Understanding this basic principle makes life interesting as well as bearable.
We are all full of foreigners, alien psychic beings, vying for attention and supremacy.
A possible lesson here for Trump in his policy formulation as well as in his personal life?
If the first volume of this trilogy had me dreaming about saints (view spoiler)[https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
(hide spoiler)], I could expect fantasy to continue in this second volume.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DPq40...The artistic dimension of this bright cosmology added hues to my reading of the Manticore, the Persian beast.
As I continue to the third volume I expect Robertson’s own magic will occupy center stage again… The ending of this novel with the exotic title, indicated that this could very well be the case as he seemed to be turning his back to Jungian lore.Although the Red Book will still haunt me.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Ο δεύτερος τόμος της επικής τριλογίας του Ντέιβις, που συγκρίνεται με τον Μάγο του Φάουλς, ξεκινάει απο εκεί που σταμάτησε ο πρώτος, αλλάζει αφηγητή, συνεχίζει την μυθική αφήγηση του βίο των Καναδέζων πρωταγωνιστών, η ιστορία είναι αινιγματική όσο το μυθικό πλάσμα στο εξώφυλλο, και καταφέρνει να είναι καλύτερη από τον πρώτη.Ο πρώτος τόμος ήταν ένα εντυπωσιακό βιβλίο, όπου ο πρωταγωνιστής Ράμσει, από το Ντέπτφορντ του Καναδά, γράφει ένα γράμμα λίγο πριν την συνταξιοδότησή του, στον διευθυντή του σχολίου του για να βάλει κάποια πράματα στην θέση τους.
We were first given an account of the small town of Deptford, and the players who would be the major cast of characters in the series, in Fifth Business under the guiding hand of Dunstan Ramsay.
From here we get his account of not only his own life but the lives of his father and Dunstan Ramsay (amongst others) as they intersected with his.Perhaps it can be viewed as a strength, but in some ways I think Davies’ decision to couch this novel in the form of the psychoanalytical treatment undergone by David was perhaps more of a weakness.
“Be sure you choose what you believe and know why you believe it, because if you don't choose your beliefs, you may be certain that some belief, and probably not a very credible one, will choose you.” ― Robertson Davies, The ManticoreThe second novel in Davies' Deptford Trilogy, The Manticore focuses largely on the life of Boy Staunton's son David.
This flashback analysis allows Davies to deal with an unreliable narrator by having the Jungian therapist (Johanna Von Haller) jump in occasionally to explain, uproot, twist, and interject architypes into the unrolling life of David Staunton, his relationship with his father, nurse, mother, sister, and early love.
Partly an exploration of the psychology of Jung and partly a work of biographical fiction akin to Fifth Business, The Manticore is a journey into David's past and into his psyche.The analysis is both more and less than a framing device.
The Manticore gives David his own history, fleshing him out as a person, and also gives him his own voice, one quite distinct from Ramsay's.Though this is the "Deptford trilogy," the return to Deptford in this book is brief and not all that notable.
The characters in The Manticore morph from people into Jungian archetypes before our very eyes.I'm hesitant to comment on how Davies incorporates Jung, because all I've learned about Jungian philosophy has been through the Deptford trilogy.
Me: You simply HAVE to read "The Manticore", by Robertson Davies.Customer: What's it about?Me: Well it's about this insufferable middle-aged lawyer who drinks to forget his fabulously wealthy upbringing.
The story is told via entries from his therapeutic journal.Customer: I'll take eight!I have decided that describing the premise of a Robertson Davies novel is pointless.
That is unless, you want to deter someone from ever reading one of his books.
I would recommend this book to anyone who liked Fifth Business, and especially to those who are somewhat familiar with Carl Jung.
Продолжаю переслушивать Дептфордскую трилогию и очень довольна; Робертсон Дэвис умный и не занудный, как жаль, что с авторами такое редко случается.
Davies is very much into myth and archetypes--Ramsey is obsessed with the interaction of myth and history and David learns his mythology through analysis (although Ramsey was one of his school teachers and he does retain some of that learning).I appreciate myth, having read a lot of Greek and Roman mythology as a child.
Davies' excellent books always remind me of those childhood days--long summer days, spent reading about Zeus, Posideon & Demeter, laying in the shade in the long grass, enjoying summer.
In the second volume of the acclaimed Deptford Trilogy, we switch narrators, from Dunstan “Boy” Staunton, to his son David.
David is a successful lawyer but is a heavy drinker and is emotionally stunted.
He travels to Zurich to receive therapy and to deal with his haunted past and the looming shadow of his, indomitable father.David Staunton is a difficult main character and readers may find him cold and reserved, but in Davies, deft and crafty hands, he has created another sharp and inventive narrative.
Davies has become one of my favorite authors and I am looking forward to the final book in the trilogy.
I was also fascinated by the subtle ways Davies' wove bits from "Fifth Business" into "The Manticore." How wonderful it must have been inside his head when he was writing this second book in "The Deptford Trilogy" - it is completely independent of the first book, and yet tied to it in so many fascinating ways, from the themes of family, religion and self to the smallest details of time and place.
I finished Hermann Hesse's Steppenwolf just before I read The Manticore and felt like Hesse was just beating me over the head with his Jungian psychology throughout the entire story.
Somehow, even though the entire first two-thirds of this book consists of a guy talking to his analyst, it still never felt anywhere near as heavy-handed as Steppenwolf did to me.
I think that part of it is just that I so love the way Davies writes (er...wrote, rather).
I mean, two-thirds of an entire book about this guy talking to his analyst?
Don't read this book on its own. It is the middle book of the Deptford Trilogy, a masterpiece of quirky details and great flawed characters. Like Cormier, but without the cynicism. So, start with Fifth Business before you pick this book up.David Staunton, poor little rich boy, the thrower of that fateful snowball, a boy impressed by his rich father for the wrong reasons. He is in Switzerland for Jungian therapy, and we get his perspective on those childhood events that lead to a mysterious death.But you won't learn everything until you read World of Wonders.
Can't say that I fully understood this book because I didn't. It was interesting to see David's perspective on His father and the way he influenced his life as well as the other characters previously introduced in the first novel. I very much enjoyed the last 40 pages or so and I thought the ending was truly beautifully written. Although this book lacked the exciting quality of adventure that was fully present in the first book, this book was nonetheless beautifully written and some of the imagery, especially about life and death is indeed very powerful.
Part two of a trilogy, this book wouldn't make much sense on its own. But it was a fascinating story because a majority of it is the detailed Jungian analysis of one character. We follow this man through a year of therapy as he uncovers his motivations, internal archetypes, and reassesses his childhood and family relations. Although nominal on plot development, I found it to be a strangely satisfying journey and a nice compliment/contrast to the first book of the series.
Book Two of "The Deptford Trilogy," one of the oddest, most entertaining series of books ever written. Davies serves up a delicious, witty, Jungian ice cream sundae.
It is illuminating to have David's perspective on some of the events that happened in or were hinted at during Fifth Business, but the feeling in this book is much more clinical and less romantic than in its predecessor.
As a narrator, Ramsay had a way of coloring things with wonder - even when bad stuff was happening.
Much of this book is a conversation between David the lawyer and his psychoanalyst, and it feels like a case - no magic, little mystery.
The story takes a turn at the end and some of the wonder and mystery of Fifth Business gets added back in.
My main complaint is its rather inconclusive ending (though the scene in the bear cave provides a very substantial crescendo finale of sorts).This is, in part, a book about Jungian analysis — but it is much more than that.
The whole story of David's life unfolds before our eyes and the eyes of his analyst — and we see certain things that we know from FB from completely different angles; this is done very masterfully, without any cheap Rashomon effects.
I look forward to reading "The World of Wonders".
A manticore is a monster, face of a man, head of a lion and a scorpian tail. In the second part of the Deptford trilogy focuses on David Staunton the son of Boy Staunton the Canadian millionaire. David is in Zurich to consult a Jungian analyst about life, death, power, symbols. A tale that is written by a stylist that goes into the murky area of the soul: us, our purpose, the myths we carry, the burden of our ancestors and past. Truly a masterpiece.
its not really about a manticore... more on murder and psychology so far..."Never buy anything unless you really need it; things you want are usually junk." "Be sure you choose what you believe and know why you believe it , because if you don't choose your beliefs, you may be certain that some belief, and probably not a very credible one, will choose you."
I didn't love this as much as I did the first part of the trilogy. The focus was on a less interesting and less convincing character. But it was still pretty engrossing, and I'm looking forward to the final book...***SPOILER***The manticore turns out to be a Jungian metaphor. We don't even find out how many hit dice it has.
Read in the trilogy omnibus edition. Review here.
Found this book fascinating even though I am not a psychologist. It was really one long psychoanalysis session. Learned alot about Jungian archetypes.
Outstanding.
Imagine if Hamlet had had a psychiatrist and you've got a pretty good idea of what Davies' The Manticore is getting at. The cleverly presented autobiography of David Staunton.
The death of his father and a mid-life crisis propel him to seek analysis in Zurich with a female Jungian analyst.
Of course, the Christmas date is an obvious metaphor for the "rebirth" that David Staunton is about to undergo as he meets the more enlightened, wild feminine.
The modern hero is the man who conquers in the inner struggle....You thinkers drive me to shake you up!" And David Staunton is in for quite a shakeup by the story's end, replete with raw experience, symbolism, and rebrith.
One can only hope the rumor is true - or that 1972 was a really bad year for anadian fiction.The second book in Mr. Davies much-lauded Deptford trilogy (Fifth Business was the first), The Manitcore's primary weakness is its structure which is self-serving and diminishes any dramatic weight the narrative might otherwise have.
Sadly, there's nobody else to share the spotlight with David Staunton and this is essentially The Manticore's great weakness: it lacks a central relationship to drive the narrative.
As usual, Davies writes wonderful prose and can turn a great anecdote here and there, but there wasn't much story here apart from what seemed like a somewhat trite process of self-discovery through fictionalized, heavily exposition-laden Jungian psychoanalysis.
But more of a quaint portrait of a Canadian man that no longer exists.
David Staunton is a bit of a sad character in that he's forced to live in the shadow of his larger than life father as well as refusing to see him as a man.
And seeing his life held out in psycho analytic sessions, it's obvious to see why he is the way he is.But once he pulls the curtains back of his life and events, at the end, there is hope he will become his own man and live a much more fulfilled and complete man.
The second of Davies's Deptford trilogy picks up more or less at the end of Fifth Business but shifts focus to David Staunton, who narrates his own life story across most of the volume, as he undergoes Jungian psychoanalysis.
Davies is quite skilled at unsentimental, complex characterization, and this is a novel almost entirely of characterization, lacking as it does the plot focus of its predecessor.
Here, instead, Davies is primarily interested in exploring Jungian archetypes as they might apply to the life of David Staunton.
Somewhat heavy sledding, perhaps, for those uninterested in the inner workings of the mind, and especially in psychoanalysis, but a classic nevertheless, rich with symbolism and deeply nuanced.
