https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/215463.Tales_of_the_Greek_Heroes
Tales of the Greek Heroes: Retold From the Ancient Authors, Roger Lancelyn Green تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: اساطیر یونان (از آغاز آفرینش تا عروج هراکلس)؛ بازنوشته: راجر لنسلین گرین؛ مترجم: عباس آقاجانی؛ تهران، سروش، 1366؛ در 224 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: 1381؛ در 223 ص؛ شابک: 9644350200؛ چاپ پنجم 1387؛ شابک: 9789643765347؛ موضوع: اساطیر یونانی و جنگ تروا - قرن 20 میادم نمیآید، در این کتاب بود که خواندم یا جای دیگر، از افسانه های یونان بود، برایش قطعه ای نوشتم، اینجا میکارم شما آبیاریش کنید.
«آرتمیس، ایزدبانوی شکار» همه ی دختران و «آپولون، همان خورشید خدای روشنایی» جمله ی پسران او را کشتند، شاید هم برعکس، یادم نمانده خوب، «نیوبه» چندان گریست، که مبدل به ستونی سنگی، بر کوه «ستیپولوس» در «لیدیا» شد.
My edition of this is from 1972!I remember reading it as a child and was reminded of it today so I hunted my shelves for it and found it with no covers and a large food stain one the front page.
It was a well loved and well read book.I flipped through and read the story of the titan Typhon today.
The stories are drawn from original sources and not tailored for modern tastes.In the Typhon story the titan wrestles with Zeus and cuts out the sinews from the god's arms and legs then makes off with them!Anyway, it's interesting stuff which can be dipped into at will, and should be required reading for Rick Riordan fans so they can see the inspirations in the raw.Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes.
کتاب خوبی است برای شروع مطالعه اساطیر یونان. روایت جدی نیست و خواننده با اسطورههای یونان در قالب داستانهای سادهای آشنا میشود. پر از شخصیتهای اصلی و فرعی و خردهریز حوادث و جزییات که شاید همهشان توی ذهن نماند. در یک مقایسه ساده میتوانم بگویم که اساطیر ایران برایم جذابتر است و بیشتر معنای پنهانشان را درک میکنم.
کتاب خوبی است برای شروع مطالعه اساطیر یونان. روایت جدی نیست و خواننده با اسطوره‌های یونان در قالب داستان‌های ساده‌ای آشنا می‌شود. پر از شخصیت‌های اصلی و فرعی و خرده‌ریز حوادث و جزییات که شاید همه‌شان توی ذهن نماند. در یک مقایسه ساده می‌توانم بگویم که اساطیر ایران برایم جذاب‌تر است و بیش‌تر معنای پنهان‌شان را درک می‌کنم.
সরল, সাবলীল অনুবাদের জনয অনুবাদকদের ধনযবাদ। গরীক মিথলজি নিয়ে আগরহ আছে যাদের তাদের জনয সুখপাঠয হবে আশা করি।
সরল, সাবলীল অনুবাদের জন্য অনুবাদকদের ধন্যবাদ। গ্রীক মিথলজি নিয়ে আগ্রহ আছে যাদের তাদের জন্য সুখপাঠ্য হবে আশা করি।
I don't think you'll read some of these books in school, or on your own, and they're worth reading.Eleanor: Why don't you read them to Gwen and Poppy?Dad: I do, sometimes.
I didn't think any of you would read that one on your own yet, and it's a classic that has influenced a lot of other works.Eleanor: At school, they did The Reader's Theater, and The Power of WOW.Dad: I'm not sure what that is.
Eliana - from Reader's Theater might have gotten Tales of the Greek Heroes as one of her books.Dad: So, you knew a little bit about King Midas from reading this book with me?El: Yeah.
i love greek mythology so much but multiple times the author got me lost with all the different names and some of them even seemed to come out of nowhere
Those guys knew how to fight!” -Rick Riordan, Introduction, Tales of the Greek HeroesThis relatively short collection of stories, chronologically sequenced throughout the Age of Heroes, provides an easy to understand retelling of the myths of Ancient Greece.
My one (and only) complaint is that it doesn’t go very in depth with some things, but that is understandable considering the 270 pages in this book; I would of appreciated some more details for some things, though!All and all, this small volume is a great book of Greek myths, and I really enjoyed it.
To someone looking for an accessible introduction into the myths and legends of Greece, however, I would strongly recommend it.The real strength of this version above other ‘introduction to Greek mythology’ books is that Roger Lancelyn Green takes a chronological approach.
Instead of cherry-picking the best and most well-known stories (Heracles, Perseus, Theseus etc.) and simply retelling them, Green attempts to tell the whole story of the ‘golden age’ of Greek heroes; from the creation of the world and the war with the Titans right through to the defeat of the giants and the death of Heracles (the tale of the later Trojan War and Odysseus’s adventures are told in a second book).
این کتاب، برای شروع مطالعه ی اساطیر یونان کتاب خوبی است.
گرین داستان ها را از کتب مختلف جمع آوری کرده و آن ها را با ترتیب زمانی نسبتا معقول، در قالب داستان های ساده بازنویسی کرده است.
در ضمن ترجمه چندان تعریفی ندارد، برخی قسمت ها نامفهوم هستند و چند غلط نگارشی نیز وجود دارد (تغییر زمان ناگهانی فعل، تغییر زبان از نوشتاری به محاوره ای و..)به طور کلی می توان گفت برای آشنایی با اساطیر یونان مناسب است.
من مطالعه ی نسخه ی اصلی (زبان انگلیسی) را پیشنهاد می کنم.
I think it is geared more to the young mind than to an adults as, yes, the narrative is aimed more to adventure and action as opposed to a more deep and profound account of the Greek mindset and way of life in those times.That said, I too enjoyed Green's idea of linking the stories and forming a more coherent continuity with an ultimate end goal - Defeating The Giants.
He was always, always mindful of Prometheus' prophesy of the coming war and looking on for the foretold mortal hero.I loved Heracles' labors and the accounts.
I think this book put me in a reading slump. I really hope not because I have a lot of book I want to read this month, and my goal for the school year is to read 100 and a reading is not going to help me achieve my goal. Overall I think this book is not worth reading.
کتاب واقعا خواندنی، دقیق و جذاب است. به ویژه از این جهت که کوشیده است تا روایتی داستانی از اساطیر یونان ارائه کند و از حالت دایره المعارفی دوری گزیند.
About as spartan a retelling of the Greek myths as you could hope for (which I believe is typical of his retellings for young readers, and fair enough) but Green does a solid job of knocking the tales of the Greek Gods and heroes into a reasonably linear and comprehensive whole.
در حد آشنایی با اساطیر کتاب خوبی هست ولی توضیحات زیاد و کاملی نداره. گاهی اسامی زیاد توی یک صفحه آدم رو کاملا گیج میکنه
I've always had a particular fascination with Greek mythology ever since I read The Odyssey in high school.
And after starting the Percy Jackson series, I just got really into it and wanted to read more on the myths.
I've never read a compilation like this, and I loved how the stories were intertwined and kept building on each other, even when a lot of them were their own tales.
But from the gods and goddesses and their involvement with mankind, to the heroes who slayed monsters and took on quests to be remembered, I was wholly enchanted with this book.
Yo creo que todos los niños deberían leer este libro que está muy bien contado y armado por el autor.
Fue muy divertido y hace mucho que no hacía algo así.
Así, Lancelyn Green al ser un verdadero experto, pone en historias bien ordenadas y sencillas el resumen de lo que es la edad de los héroes, aunque se centra más en Heracles y a partir de ahí gira todo.
me recordó a los relatos que hace Charles Lamb sobre las obras de teatro de Shakespeare.
یه بار پنج شیش سال پیش این کتاب رو خونده بودم و خب همیشه دوست داشتم دوباره بخونمش که خداروشکر موفق شدم.کلا اسطوره و حماسه خوندن، اونم از نوع یونانیش، خیلی جذابه.
حسادت میکردن، توطئه میکردن از هم انتقام میگرفتن ، انسان هارو قربانی اهداف و دعواهای خودشون میکردن و حتی فرزندانِ هم رو میکشتن.پ.ن1 : اگر کتابهایی ازین نوع میشناسین حتما معرفی کنین :دیپ.ن2: من با خیلی از شخصیت های این کتاب و یونان باستان خاطره دارم.
:دیپ.ن3: اگر ایلیاد رو خوندین و دوست داشتین حتما اینو هم بخونین.
I decided to read this book because I like Greek myths and it is a short stories novel, so it was easy to read and enjoyable.
There are many different places in Greece as the setting of this book some mythical and some real, but they are always described as being beautiful and it makes the reader want to not only visit Greece but picture the story of the immortal gods living in the picturesque landscape.I learnt from this book more Greek mythology as I have always been interested in it, and have read books about it e.g. Percy Jackson, but to read more original myths is more informative but still enjoyable for me to read.
In Rick Riordan's Introduction, he claims the Roger Green stories are what interested him as kid in Greek mythology, leading to his writing as an adult.
I can see why.Green's retelling of the Greek myths are very good, and connected as one narrative, making the overall book easier to read.
They are captivating and interesting, and excellent for youths to read for the whetting of their mythological appetites.On the other hand, as an adult, they are incomplete.
So you do get a glimpse of what the stories are and who is part of them.Overall, a good book, especially for establishing an introductory knowledge of Greek mythology.
This has to be the best, simple account of the Greek myths.
Reading and re-reading it as a child, I got to know all the main stories as real heroes, not dusty school-room exercises.
There are hints of something disturbing in his tale (killing his family!) and in the Jason story, too.
I found them much more intriguing than the God of the Bible.Rereading it now, the simple pleasure remains.
Also, it's a primer in Who's Who on Greek mythology.
Green weaves the minor figures into the main stories, creating a sense of richness and depth.
Every child should read this book.
Every adult should reread it.
I absolutely loved this book.
The author's retelling of the Greek myths is exactly what I've been looking for to share with my middle school students.
I also like that the author was a friends of Tolkien and C.S. Lewis.
Oh, to be in that book discussion group!
This particular edition has an introduction by Rick Riodrdan in which he explains that this is the first book he read about mythology as a kid and it made him dream of being a Hero.
I want my kids to see that without classic literature their contemporary favorites wouldn't exist.
This book is a great one for that.
4/5 StarsIt's probably worth pointing out I am completely obsessed with Greek mythology at the moment, even if I am relatively new to it.
So I picked this book up, looking for a more simple rebelling of some of the greatest legends.
I loved the whole book, start to finish and the chapters and explanations were very well thought through.
My only problem was at times the plots went to fast, bits were skipped or glossed over, and it was perhaps a tiny bit too simple for me, a 16 year old, classics civilisation student.
But then again, it is a children's book!
هشتاد درصد كتاب راجع به داستان هاي عصر قهرمانان هست و اگر مثل من دنبال داستان هاي عصر طلايي و برنز ميگرديد بعد از دو سه فصل اول حسابي حوصلتون سر خواهد رفت. ولي در همين حد بيست درصد و يكمي از بعضي حاهاي داستاناي قهرمانان هم من دوست داشتم بد نبود. مخصوصا داستان جستجوي پشم زرين.
REALLY EDUCATIONALPERCY JACKSON
Excellent, It gives a general overview of Greek Mythology from the coming of the immortals to the battle of the giants. Ideal for an introduction..
Más de un milenio de mitos y leyendas de la antigua Grecia se unen en una sola narración para conocer mortales y dioses. Sus aventuras son de las más antiguas y emocionantes del mundo
Green’s version of the Greek myths provides an enjoyable and easy read, with a focus on the masculine gods and heroes, including Zeus, Hermes, Apollo, Prometheus, Dionysus, Perseus, Theseus, Jason & the Argonauts, and a significant portion of the stories centering around Heracles.
We watch him face challenges, confront enemies, work with friends, and make the day-to-day choices of a man, albeit with super-strength, and in this way amongst the various characters cataloged in the Tales, Heracles provides the richest portrait of masculinity in both its ideals and its foibles....In Heracles’ story, he chose Virtue’s path of toil and suffering without any hesitation.
That's how it seems like there's a never-ending stream of books and movies set within these myths, because combined with the fact that they can change, even now, the story possibilities within them are pretty endless.I enjoyed reading this collection, and I enjoyed thinking about its content and doing my own research about questions it raised even more.
If you're reading this with a little girl, it might be worth discussing a more feminist perspective; as in questioning who would have written these myths (men benefiting from a patriarchal society) and why women were depicted in that fashion.
Those guys knew how to fight!” —Introduction by Rick Riordan.Tales of the Greek Heroes cuenta las historias más destacadas de toda la mitología griega, desde la Creación del Universo hasta los labores de Hércules, pasando por todos los héroes, como Perseo, Teseo, y algunos dioses, como Dionisio.“When humans began to tell the stories about them they had very little idea of what gods should be, and quite naturally they pictured them as very like themselves, but much more powerful, more beautiful, and more free.”Lo que me encantó de este libro es que el autor juntó todas las distintas historias de los héroes y las puso como si fuera en una línea de tiempo, contando una gran historia en vez de varios relatos por separado, como suelen ser la mayoría de los textos sobre los mitos griegos.
The best parts of the book have some errors.Most of the Gods and some of the mortals are in many other books like Percy Jackson.
The author had an interesting idea by writing poems before every chapter.
This book gets very detailed at the gross parts of the book like when Zeus got his head cut open and Pan the first satyr was born in Zeus’s head.
Almost all characters are Gods, but Hercules and a couple princes and princesses.
In the book it seems like all of the Gods hate the mortals.
All Gods have a reason to hate a mortal one way or another.
