https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818095.It_s_Like_This_Cat
This is one of the most inspiring middle-grade fiction novels I've ever read. First published in 1969, It's Like This, Cat has a cat in it, but the story isn't about just a cat. It's about a boy who learns the value of friendship and how to understand his dysfunctional family even when he doesn't want to.
(It's not really THAT much about animals.) But I forced myself to read a chapter, and then another chapter, and then realized I was actually enjoying it!...It's kind of a strange book for a Newbery winner--it skews quite a bit older than most, for one thing, and it doesn't have a typical structure--although maybe that's what caught the committee's eye.
It strikes me as being really Sixties.If you love New York books, well, here you go...
this is one of the New Yorkiest of New York books I've read.
Winner of the 1964 Newbery Medal.It's not your typical children's story; it has a grown up feel to it. It's set in New York City in the mid 20th century, back when parents let their young kids roam all over, seemingly without worry. It's the story of young Davey and his formerly stray cat named Cat. His tales of urban adventures are actually quite entertaining. And it's a good look back at New York City as it was in the 60's.
I have always felt that there are certain books that evoke a very specific time and place and I distinctly remember another time that I read it, sometime in the middle school years.
I remember he took my hand as we shuffled down the hallway and I found a copy of this wonderful book.
I know that my Aunt Anna, who came and sat with me quite a few times that week, and I would talk about him, worrying because he had no visitors.Anyway, that said, I have embedded a link to the book and hope you will read it.
why don't they have a house?)...an eighteenyear old boy who is homeless (where are the boy's parents?)...young teenagers who wander around a big city (isn't that dangerous?)...a girl whose mother is a beatnik (what in the world is that?) This world was totally outside of my experiences as a ten year old girl in small town Texas.Second recent read: Dave and his dad fight all the time and Dave’s mother gets sick.
I remember thinking Tom was an odd duck, a boy who was ignored by his family (does that really happen?) And the lingo the people speak, especially the young people, a dialect and vocabulary so different from my Texas lingo….This book took me right out of my little small-town world.
Kate might be a little odd with her cats, cottage cheese and fruit, but Dave knows that she's a good listener when he needs one most.
Even before the summer gets into full swing, Dave and Nick are duking it out on the sidewalk over a couple of girls who they met at Coney Island.Then there's Tom. A thief on a dare who Dave meets while hunting down Cat.In this 1960s slice of life story, readers get a real sense of NYC at the time.
I love NYC history, and my little Staten Island neighborhood has a bit of a cameo in this story!
Yes, it deserved the award. IT'S LIKE THIS, CAT is a kids' novel from the Sixties that still sells well today. A pre-adolescent, inner-city youth gradually steps out of his rut, meeting a health-food "nut" and hooking up with paid modeling. Written entirely from his point of view, very vivid and heartfelt. So much so that IT'S LIKE THIS, CAT earned author Emily Neville the Newberry Award in 1964. Followed by Berries Goodman (1965), in which the celebrated author tackled anti-Semitism in suburbia.

I first read this book when I was 10 years old and on a train ride from California to New York.
Interesting children’s coming of age novel written first person by a 14 year old New York city boy (who becomes attached to a stray cat – hence the title of the book).
Accurate descriptions of New York city of the early 1960s.
What I remember most, was how the boy, Dave, would make cold spaghetti sandwiches for breakfast; I’d never heard of such a thing but I then went through a stage of making and enjoying them myself.
Holy smokes, this book is dated! It's a nostalgic, but not cloying story of a 14 year old boy, his parents, neighbors, and friends. The cat is basically a prop to get the story going. For modern kids it will sound like historical fiction - record players? Harry Belafonte? Beatniks? People who think that spaying/neutering their pets is cruel? But it's a quick read and older elementary age readers should enjoy it.
These days there are scores of them.It's Like This, Cat won the Newbery Award in 1964, given for the best writing for readers aged 8 to 12.
1963 was a breakout year for the Newbery when Madeleine L'Engle received the award for A Wrinkle in Time.It's Like This, Cat showed promise that the Newbery's hidebound nature had truly changed, though the main character is a bit older than usual.
David Mitchell is 14 and the story is set in contemporary times in New York City.David has a frail mother who suffers from asthma.
What a fine cat he is too!By the end, David has a best friend, a girlfriend, and a better understanding of his father.
When Dave’s father tells him to get a dog, he gets a cat.
This is one reason I got a cat.” – It’s Like This, CatThe Bad: OMG, guys, this book badly shows its age.
A lot of the story consists of Dave wandering around New York.
Since I’ve never been to New York, I got bored with the wandering.
The themes are relatable, and cats are cute, but Dave’s constant wandering didn’t hold my attention for very long.If you liked this review, you can see more of them here: Read All The Things!
I really liked it!It's about a 14 year old boy named David.If this book was written today...
David would be 17 years old, one parent would be out of the picture, and he'd be a misunderstood rich kid.BAH!!In this book, David acts like a normal kid, likes to make friends, has a cat because his neighbor is a cat lady and he thought the cat was cool, he likes to listen to records, and he fights with his Dad.Now, if this was written today..
I don't know much about that time because when this book was written my parents were 4 years old.Anyways...
It’s like this cat has the best opening line of any Newbery I’ve read so far, even the famous ‘Dark and stormy” line from Wrinkle in Time.
This is one reason I got a cat.” Genius, right?
I too grew up in a house with an attorney father who liked to argue.
(There was a song on one of Dave’s records about the birds and the bees.) Even mentioning the birds and the bees in an elementary novel runs a risk of parent complaint.Anyways, I liked it.
Honestly, I wanted to love this book.
I wanted it to be like a 'Catcher in the Rye' for a slightly younger audience.
I had heard it was that kind of style with a narrator that had a bit of edge but in a book now slightly dated.The book sounded perfect for the topic our year 5 children do on America and modern history.The book opens really well..
And it has elements that could be used in class to discuss America/New York city life in recent history.However, our narrator here is no Holden Caulfield and the book does not live up to its dazzling opening gambit.
I enjoyed this, it was a bit simplistic, but, it's a fun little historical bit of NYC in what I assume is the 50's or 60's. The character mostly reads believable and is a fun enough guy to hang out with for 180 pages or so. This book is really only partially about a cat. While this may have been contemporary fiction when published, now I would recommend it to those who enjoy historical fiction. Not overly problematic, seems like a safe read for anyone.
it was fun to see how someones relationship with a cat was developed even though his dad wanted him to get a dog. i liked how he was showing his cat around the place like the cat was just a new kid in the city. while normally I wouldn't approve of cat pets but in this story it showed how much cats are great pets.
The character in this book Dave shows kindness when he cares for a stray cat. Even though his dad makes it tough he gets through it with his cat which Dave can also show signs of bravery even when it doesn’t seem like it.
Yet I still love the book.The main character is fourteen-year-old Dave.
He's a stray that sometimes visited Kate to whom Dave gave a permanent home partly to spite his dad who prefers dogs.I found it refreshing to read a book that is just about a nice boy and his life in New York, especially about a boy who is nice and good and fun but still has moods, shows attitude, and makes mistakes.
I also appreciated reading about a cat and especially one who stays put throughout the book.
I like the story both for its themes and its sense of place.This book is foremost about relationships ...
I enjoyed it very much when I read it (in one sitting) last weekend, but reading it in 2009 instead of 1989 just didn't seem right.It's the story of Dave Mitchell, 14-year-old New York City kid, dealing with a strained relationship with his father, his fascination with street kid and small-time crook Tom, his dissolving friendship with buddy Nick, and his first sorta-relationship with a girl.
And he's got a cat, Cat, who doesn't figure into the story as much as the title would have you believe, although Cat does wind up being the catalyst (sorry) for some of Dave's encounters with new people.

This is a straightforward, coming-of-age story about a boy and his pet cat set in late 1950's New York.
The book reads like a love letter to the city, as well as an ode to a bygone era- complete with terms like golly, stickball, being sore at someone, and 30 cent coke mentions.
Also, it's one more novel about cats that confirms their general air of condescension towards us.
Again, this book is definitely a snapshot of a time period.
If you're interested in traveling back in time for a charming, quiet story about the everyday life of a teenager, I think this would suffice.
Dave Mitchell, a teen growing up in New York, adopts a scrappy tomcat despite his overbearing father's objections.
The cat has a few adventures and leads Dave to meet Tom, a young man facing his own family challenges.
Dave also tromps through New York, visiting Coney Island, traveling downtown to help a girl, and visiting parks throughout the city.
Kate, an eccentric cat-loving neighbor, ties together Dave, his family, cats, and learning about life.
The worst thing that happens to Cat is that, in an effort to calm his tomcat behavior, Dave takes him to be neutered.
The writing has a very strong voice throughout, while it stayed far away from giving us homophones for their acccents, the way the writing was done you could hear it in their tone, it rang true.
Maybe growing up Midwestern in the 90's wasn't the same as New York City in the 60's but it felt very off.
I think part of it felt more like a glossing over of the 60's than an honest retelling of it.
It mostly reads like a low-key middle-grade book, but there is at least one part that I think would upset a lot of children, and probably even some older readers(view spoiler)[(oh no, that poor little kitten!) (hide spoiler)].
It's Like This, Cat is one of those animal books that use the animal mostly as a catalyst(no pun intended) for some change of circumstance or perspective in the protagonist's life.
This adds to the low-key, slice-of-life feel of the book.
I'm not sure if I would ever re-read it, but I certainly don't regret trying it out.
This was a very enjoyable little book.
I don't understand how anyone could complain of this book's "datedness".
In fact, when I read in some reviews that it was dated it just made me want to read it even more.
And after I was finished reading it (it was a very quick read) I just wanted to be a teen in early '60s NYC.
I didn't think the lingo or action of the characters were too out-of-date for kids to understand.
The only think I wouldn't have known was the different locations around the city, which of course I really am not familiar with as an adult, except by name, now so that makes little difference.
I enjoyed this YA title when it was published in 1963, or thereabouts, and I've been hankering to reread it if just for sentimental reasons.
You want to revisit a book of your tender youth.
Silly, right?
IT'S LIKE THIS, CAT all these years (decades, actually) later holds up pretty well.
The fourteen-year-old boy in NYC befriending a tomcat (named Cat) still resonates.
The boy's awakening interest in girls is touching.
And Cat's mannerisms are spot on.
So, if you're scouting for a good book for a YA reader, this might be the right one despite it's setting in the early 1960s.
One of those books I picked up at a used book store a while back and have never regretted.
I wasn't in quite the right mood this time for its laid-back, everyday feel, but I've always admired its understated depiction of the small things that make a child grow up.
What stood out most: a fulfilling lunch of spaghetti and lasagna and two coffees for two dollars??
I was reminded of About the B'nai Bagels, which was written around the same time and similarly explores what it means (takes?) to grow up.
Both books feel slightly dated, but the masterful work of their authors persists.
This was the Newbery award winner in 1964 because it was so fresh and new but today it reads like historical fiction.
For today's kids, the vocabulary would be difficult (mostly the usage).
Our kids would have no idea why the characters have to communicate via postcards, even though they live in the same city.
Some of the themes still stand up (misunderstood kids and parents, friendship and loyalty) but it was hard for me to understand parts of the storyline and I have some background knowledge of that time (ok I was born in 1962).
Continuing my quest to read all Newbery medal and honor books, I pulled this one off my book shelf.
A 1964 Newbery Medal winner that frankly leaves me mystified at the process of how and who selects the winners.This is a story of David who lives in New York City and adopts a cat.
On the surface it appears to be a story of an animal that changed the lives of those with whom it contacted.
Below the surface, there appears to be many randomly sprinkled subplots of characters and events.
It is indeed as fluffy as the cat!Ugh, I just cannot connect with this book at all.
