https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1402525.Man_The_Dwelling_Place_Of_God
An extraordinary collection of (mostly) short essays most of which originally appeared in The Alliance Witness of which he was the editor in the 1905s. Presumably only of interest to Christians, and even then to those seeking a closer walk with God.Best read one chapter at a time--they all stand alone--to allow the reader to absorb and reflecton Tozer's message. Many lend themselves to personal mediation. Can be life changing.A very good read.
W. Tozer quite a bit.
There are times when I think he's right on the money, and times that I have some problems with what he has to say.
Even when I find myself disagreeing strongly with what he has to say, I find myself listening and trying to work through the differences in my head, rather than dismissing his ideas.
His take on modern Christianity, though somewhat dated because he wrote 1920-1963, I think is nothing short of brilliant.
I've read other books by Tozer, I'll read more.
I think he saw the many ways that the church was selling out to partisan politics and worldly concerns (e.g. this prosperity gospel nonsense) and departing from the actual texts of the Gospel.I like him very much when he criticizes the church (and the Western world) and talks about God, less so when he criticizes the world (almost to the point where he seems a smidge isolationist; I don't recall very much in Tozer about the great commission) and even less so when he seems to suggest that wrestling with faith or trying to make intellect part your belief is, in fact, a form of unbelief.
This has to be one of the most delightful Tozer books I have read.
It has 39 short chapters on unrelated topics so one can read for a long or short time, stop, and come back to it without interruption.
And the reader won’t be disappointed in finding the familiar gems dropped behind from a long walk with Tozer.
In fact, Tozer writes, “The best writer is one that goes with us through the world of ideas like a friendly guide who walks beside us through the forest pointing out to us a hundred natural wonders we had not noticed before.
Tozer was able to point out how Christianity as we know today is not the Christianity that Jesus had in mind when he went here on earth.
Throughout the years, we have made Christianity man-centered and have altered some fundamental truths in order to please the crowd and make Christianity more acceptable and easier to swallow.
Christianity was never meant to be comfortable; on the contrary, Jesus wanted to shake everyone's core by challenging the accepted truths and practices during His time.
Tozer doesn't sugarcoat, he rubs the hard facts in your face, never hesitating to proclaim how Christianity SHOULD be in light of God's word.
A Christian classic worthy of your time!
A.W. Tozer writes with the authority of a prophet of God. There’s a powerful message in this little book.
God wants to reveal His power to us in personal ways.
Tozer says, it’s time for us to take God’s Word more seriously, as God’s Word tells us clearly how to live, and how He longs to bless us.As with all Tozer’s books, each of the 39 short chapters gives much food for thought (and further study if are so inclined.)It’s a challenging read: one that requires action - application of the truths in these short chapters will be something that you will want to ponder throughout the book.
Excellent!I used this as a quiet time book. There was something every day to ponder and pray over. Tozer is encouraging, insightful and convicting to live the best Christian life possible by continually handing over the reins to Christ. I will be reading through it again and again.
This is a fantastic book that requires the reader to carefully read and meditate on the message. Recommended to me by an old college professor, this book makes you rethink our relationship with God and the mystery behind it. Simple and short, I highly recommend this book.
I really love Tozer's writing. He is one my all time favourite authors. He writes with courage, and provides profound commentary about what is happening today, making his writings highly relevent and accurate. Normally I wouldn't like books compiled of many small independent and distinct chapters but nearly every chapter contains a gem and mostly he warns us to be Christians who are awake, not asleep, in this world.
Awesomely practical. No-nonsense style of writing
One of my favorite 'dead guys'. Tozer shows us a God that is not in the box of modern 'church'.
Up there as one of my favorite Tozers. Consistently great, often spectacular, rarely blah.
A book not for the faint of heart.
Our emotions change daily but the will is intentional.
This is not a passive statement either but one that takes our thoughts to who He is in order that we can live by daily.
Another thing to think about that the Devil is a better theologian than any of us so it is not a head knowledge but a change of heart that takes repentance daily, humility, and a humble heart.
Tozer gets into self-deception which I think every Christian deals with as a daily battle.
Very obviously influenced by early twentieth century protestant theology, you can see where his hard nosed commitment to the traditions/interpretations of that sect rob him of some of the authority he speaks with in contrast to when he speaks in the Spirit.
At times he very obviously allows tradition and an overly literal interpretation of prophetic language to get in the way.
His love and affinity for the early church fathers and christian mystics is refreshing.Personally, the book challenged me to greater devotion to prayer, study and ,pray God, action; additionally, he offers some invaluable advise on testing the spirits as we walk in the world.
A compilation of articles that Tozer wrote on the subject, his depth of insight will challenge and bless your soul.
Though Tozer died in 1963, his comments on the human condition, errant evangelical practices, and the markings of a real spirit-filled life are as applicable today as when he wrote them.
Some notable quotes: “God is never found accidentally.” (p.41) “True faith brings a spiritual and moral transformation and an inward witness that cannot be mistaken.
45) “Future historians will record that we of the twentieth century had intelligence enough to create a great civilization but not the moral wisdom to preserve it.” (p.
A great little read! Tozer left this life to dwell with Christ in the 60's; however, this book fits the present Christian culture much as it did 50 years ago. The last two chapters are a must-read for every soul that proclaims Jesus as Lord.
Tozer was really a 20th century prophet.
He writes about deep, spiritual things in everyday language.
Some of his language and analogies are a little 'homespun' but he was mid-west American and writing 60 years ago.One of the more startling chapters in this book is where he writes about unanswered prayer.
Rarely does god say 'wait', but usually a non-response from god is because of sin or some other hindrance in our lives.My approach to this book was to read a chapter a day - though I often missed days and occasionally read two or three in a day.
Practical and straightforward. Some really good tidbits in here, but all together a little disjointed. The book is essentially a collection of about 40 short essays on daily applying Christian theology to your life. However, I thought the essays, at 2-4 pages each, were too short to dive into any of the topics properly. The result feels like a collection of semi-related platitudinous thoughts. The book may be good for a daily devotion type of setting, but reading for longer sessions left me reeling from trying to cover too many topics too lightly.
A great reread from a man who wrote prophetically about our times. This work is dated by publication standards but his closing chapters on the importance of doctrine, the Christian views on society and our role in the world are some of the most salient treaties you can find on the topic.Tozer always writes in a readable form that is highly quotable and lends itself to thoughtful reflection. I highly recommend this book.
This book has given me much to meditate on. Even as I finished the last chapter, I know there are portions that I want to read again. There was tremendous encouragement in Tozer's words too- and he gave insight into many of the struggles I have faced over these past several years. Highly recommend all of Tozer's books that I have read-looking forward to returning to this book and reading others that he has written.
If you are a serious Christian of any denomination this is a must read along with Tozer's other books each walking you down a path of wonder; driving you deeper and deeper into the word of God and God's own heart. Tozer's insights into God most amazing. He was a brilliant theological mind and we are blessed to have his written comments to share for generations to come.
thy heart with all diligence" is more than a wise saying; it is a solemn charge laid upon us by the One who cares most about us. To it we should give the most careful heed lest at any time we should let it slip.Tozer, A.W. (2010-06-03). Man - The Dwelling Place of God (Kindle Locations 98-100). . Kindle Edition.
True Spiritual food for the righteousThis book is so needed today by a Christian and especially the modern church community. So necessary to keep worldly ways out of the church and Christian thought. I would recommend this book to today's leaders.
Excellent when you read about one chapter a day as a devotional. Pretty heavy stuff worth meditating on. I like him better when he is talking about God and our relationship to Him, and less so when he is analyzing "The Church". These observations seem a bit out-dated.
Read this book again in conjuction with a study on John's Epistles. This little book of Tozer's could be the "how to" guide for Chtistians on what it actually means to abide in God. As usual, he is plain spoken and to the point.
One of my favorite Tozer books! Filled with such poignant and anointed truths about God's love for us, and our response.
Great
ExcellentA. W. Tozer does a wonderful job of describing what the Christian life is all about and encourages us to live what we claim to be.
Tozer can't missPraise The LORD!
