https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/411565.The_Tattoo_Murder_Case
Translated into English for the first time in 1999 by Deborah Boehm and published by Soho Crime, this translation bridges the half century since the novel was first published and gives us a fresh, new locked room mystery in a country where full body tattoos reach the status of art.When parts of a dismembered body are found in a room locked from the inside, Kenzo Matsushita, 29-year-old former military medic, contacts his older brother, Detective Chief Inspector Daiyu Matsushita to investigate the case.
I stumbled upon this book while looking for a different Japanese murder mystery and am eternally grateful. This book was originally published in Japan in 1948; however, it does not seem dated at all. The only way you know the year it takes place is the references to the destruction of Tokyo. I am usually a slow reader, but I devoured this book. A fascinating story that includes a look at how the Japanese culture viewed tattoos, the artists who create them, and the people who choose to adorn their bodies with them.
Imagine for a moment Sir Arthur Conan Doyle had decided to set his Sherlock Holmes mysteries in Japan.
Translated into English for the first time in 1999 by Deborah Boehm and published by Soho Crime, this translation bridges the half century since the novel was first published and gives us a fresh, new locked room mystery in a country where full body tattoos reach the status of art.When parts of a dismembered body are found in a room locked from the inside, Kenzo Matsushita, 29-year-old former military medic, contacts his older brother, Detective Chief Inspector Daiyu Matsushita to investigate the case.

Comment upon first reading: Enjoyable Japanese whodunnit.
The characters are somewhat bland in their polite Japanese way, and the solution to the murder mystery is interesting in the same way that the solution to a crossword puzzle is interesting.
The chief strengths of the narrative are its evocation of post-war Japan and its portrayal of the Japanese art tattoo subculture.
On the whole, worth your time if you have an interest in things Japanese.Comment upon second reading: I have upgraded from three stars to four, partly in compensation/recognition of my prejudice against locked-room whodunnits.
A bit pulpy, maybe, and not the last word in characterization, but the story is good enough on its own merits that something more involving could have resulted ...Translation.
Less of a window in time (into a very strange era in Japan, a recently-postfeudal but credible world-power, reduced to new humiliations every day), and more of a market-competitive genre mystery circa the present, rather than 1947.
In the sense that locale, period particulars and art direction in general would certainly be main attractions for this kind of novel, what's missing amounts to the donut and what's present is the hole.
This is one of this cases."The Tattoo Murder Case" starts with Kenzo visiting a tattoo contest, where he meets a lurid and fascinating woman called Kinue, who seems to be the lover of a shady character.
Takagi does an amazing job in creating a lurid, dark, fascinating environment, with shady, dark and mysterious characters.
He is fantastic in reading people's feelings about the war and its consequences, and he has a good knack for human' psychology.All this makes for a very good novel, one that catches the reader's attention from the very beginning.
It's one of the things I enjoyed most, his logical reasoning process, which was written well.
It was also quite interesting to get a snapshot of the world of Tattoos in mid-20th century Japan.
I had no idea it was illegal, however, I did know it was associated with the crime world in later years.
That this was originally written in 1948 is a huge plus for me.
On the downside, and I didn't use this in my rating of the book, which is separate, the audio had major flaws.
However, if you wouldn't know any better, the audio was OK.
This was great book - the writing was fresh and contemporary even though it originally came out in 1948. The story had great pacing and kept me enthralled until the end. It had slot of unexpected twists and turns in the plot so it was not predictable. If you are into Japanese culture or tattoos, this book is a must read. It is well worth your time. .
I don't know if it's because the translation sucked (there were phrases/words like 'unremembered' and 'levitated in surprise') but this book SUCKED.
People get killed and no one knows what to do for upwards of 200 pages until a genius comes into the scene and is like 'oh.....hm i'll solve it all in three days give me time to go off alone so the author doesn't have to figure out how I know all of this, and then I'll come solve it'.
I just had to finish the dumb book to see the ending that all this bullshit was FOR.
Silly (though gruesome), with atrocious dialogue, but still entertaining.
Dalam kurun waktu tersebut org yg ditato harus kuat menahan rasa sakit dari tusukan jarum sang pelukis tato dan demam akibat perlawanan tubuh atas invasi tinta-tinta warna pada kulit mereka.
Sehingga pantaslah ketika pemilik tato merasa sangat bangga atas tato yang terpampang pada kulitnya.Anyway, di samping pelajaran menarik mengenai tato misteri yang ditampilkan di buku ini juga cukup rumit dan menantang.Premisnya seperti ini, potongan tubuh seorang wanita (lengan, kaki, dan kepala) ditemukan berserakan tersebar di dalam kamar mandi yg terkunci dari dalam.
Tato yg dimiliki korban (Kinue Nomura) tersebut bermotifkan Orochimaru, sang penyihir ular.
Atmospherically evocative of Kurosawa's "Stray Dog", this novel has a very interesting concept and plot built around an intriguing murder.
Wonderful cast of characters and potential villains.
There were some slow moments (by today's standards), but that's a minor quibble.
The solution was not entirely predictable (I briefly surmised an aspect of it, but not the whole thing by any means).
Very satisfying and fascinating look into post-war Japan.
Agatha Christie and pulp murder novel fans would love it.
Interesting ruminations on the art of Japanese tattooing as well, especially in the context of an era when Irezumi and Horimono were illegal.
This is one very engaging murder mystery that I have read in quite a while.
And there walks in, our smart-ass genius who just listens to Kenzo, meditates, draws logical conclusions following non-Euclidean Geometry, meets aka interrogates a few guys, plays chess with his suspects and finally solves the case which had been lingering on for a couple of months within a week!
They grasp the criminal minds, see the crime, the motive, the missing points of the Kenzo's and everything else that there is to it and solve the mystery within days.
Well executed, this had me thinking of locked room mysteries for a while... However, if I really had to nitpick, Kyosuke Kamizu's introduction was a deus ex machina. But I will certainly pick up the other two of Takagi's translated novels (if only I could read Japanese!).
Mark Douglas Nelson narrated this book and I had a really hard time with the sing song pattern of his voice.
Many of the descriptions related to the art of tattoo are beautiful, but the detective story fell flat for me.
"In these crazy times stones float and leaves sink, and the larger the fish is, the more easily it slips through the net.""Doppelgänger—double-walker.
Cry a little, laugh a little, and then it’s over.”"Getting tattooed is sort of like a love affair.
You have to see it through to the end, no matter how much it hurts.”"‘In the end, all this pain will be forgotten and you’ll be left with something beautiful that can never be erased."
A classic of Japanese crime fiction, this book was first published, albeit in a slightly different form, in 1948, at a time when the country was still recovering from the impact of war.A young forensic medical student with post-traumatic stress after a stint as a medic in the Philippines, begins a passionate affair with a beautiful woman who is covered with strange, sexually alluring traditional Japanese tattoos.
But underlying this are some very dark, warped, highly sexual themes that feel as though they belong to a book of much more recent vintage.
A Japanese version of a closed room murder.
When a woman is murdered, her fully tattooed torso stolen, and her limbs and head left behind in the bathroom, is found, the suspects range from her boyfriend, boyfriend's brother, a professor with a penchant for buying tattooed skin from owners upon their demise, and an ex-boyfriend recently released from prison.
The woman is the daughter of a reknown and controversial Japanese tattoo artist.
Apparently this guy is one of Japan's more popular mystery writers.
The most interesting thing about it is the description of a subculture of tattoo freaks - mobsters, wild women, and their admirers.
Some of them are covered all over with tattoos, and there is a good portrayal of an outdoor display/contest.
One guy had even his penis covered with pictures.
In this story, a young, decent Japanese medical student gets involved with a gorgeous tattooed babe, who happens to be the girlfriend of a mobster.
Another irritant is that Takagi regularly reminds the reader of events that have already occurred in the story (apparently it was meant for serialization).
There are two main things that I'm walking away from this book adoring, and that I want to share.First, I am an individual exposed to far too many crime and forensic shows.
The Tattoo Murder Case was originally published in Japanese in 1948.
Seeing the forensics of that time compared to what we have now was revelatory, mostly because a lot of things haven't changed as far as police work goes.And the sheer novelty of the case and detectives made this a fabulous read.Second, the cultural aspects were absorbing.
My only real exposure to Japanese culture is through Haruki Murakami, who is obviously more contemporary.
At the time, tattoos were illegal in Japan.
I enjoyed the book for the picture of Japan at the time.
I found this to be a good and enjoyable mystery, at times, but I did have quibbles with some elements.
I did not really like the locked room mystery element, and the solution is found by a new character who comes into the book about 2/3 of the way in.
I felt like the translation made the feel of the book too contemporary and added some explanation of Japanese life that would not have been in the original.Nevertheless, a worthwhile read, and I recommend it highly.
PROTAGONIST: Kenzo Matsushita, forensic doctoral studentSETTING: 1947 TokyoRATING: 3.25WHY: In Japan, tattooing is viewed as an art form.
Kinue Nomura has a masterpiece tattoo.
When she is found dead with her torso removed, her latest lover, Kenzo Matsushita, he sets out to find the killer.
Instead, more death ensues and his amateurish efforts wreck the police investigation led by his brother.
A "Boy Genius" friend conveniently show ups and solves that murders in a matter of days, even though the police haven't done so in months.
The information about tattoos is very interesting, but the reliance on Mr. Genius was a clumsy effort.
Going to Japan, so wanted to get a feel for the culture. Tattoos are a prominent feature in the world of not only the Yakuza, but among a large other community. So this novel was a great description of its place in Japanese culture. Great mystery story too. A little description of the time right after the war, but actually very little focus on that aspect of the story... just minor notice the resilience of the people coming back to life after the ravages of war on Tokyo.
I had read this novel years ago and was pleasantly surprised when I found it while browsing through the Goodreads website. Akimitsu Takagi was one of the first Japanese writers whose work had me hooked from page one and all the way through to the disturbing yet enthralling conclusion. It is a must read, full of mystery, tattoos and Japanese mythological symbolism. Beware of the curse: Frog eats Slug, Snake eats Frog, Slug dissolves Snake.
This is a classic locked-room mystery, and as such is very good. It's been several years since I read it, so I won't offer a review until I find my copy and re-read it. This book is what got me into both Soho crime series, Japanese and Chinese murder mysteries, and Kurosawa's noir films.
A must read for fans of mystery or japanese culture. It is unapologetic about the cultural references though... the author doesn't bog you down with explanations of things as their is an assumption that you will understand the finer aspects of the culture.
Starting from this point, Takagi challenges you to figure out who did it and how before he reveals the interesting ending.There is a lot of information of the Japanese Edo style of tattooing and it’s very intriguing.
And here tattoo means a full or partial body complete design, not a little mini ‘sushi’ tattoo that we usually think of (like one name or small design).
The Western way of tattooing.
And also I can’t imagine a man writing in the 1950s would have a woman commiting gruesome murders and being a criminal mastermind.
Above all, Takagi's incorporation of Japanese tattoo culture comes into the forefront as what separates this book from other murder mysteries.
I am especially drawn to the sense of body as a canvas and how tattoo's, not "sushi tattoos", but whole body tattoos, start to lose their form in the body, and the body to the tattoo.
This post structuralist sense of the subversive subculture in tattooing is a real eye-opener.
Although I don't expect this in a murder mystery novel, it would have also been very interesting to read about the background of post-imperial life after the war as well as peculiarities attached to such happenings at the time.
What I like about the book is that, it tells the readers about the art of tattoos in Japan which people like me did not aware about it before.
The book also stated that getting tattoo is like a drug, people will hate it for the first time, but after some time, they will go back and get another one.
However, what I don't like about the book is that, the way the detectives try to explain the tricks is quite dramatic that it tooks him few chapters to explain one thing.
But, so far it is a good mystery book
Akimitsu Takagi has his main character a fan of Raymond Chandler and Dashiell Hammett.
Too bad Takagi didn't learn anything from the two lords of detective fiction.
Where the mysteries by Chandler and Hammett are as tight as a drum without a spare word, The Tattoo Murder case is flabby and overwritten.
It's a great murder mystery.
Good strong plot, the characters are defined.
Too bad, because if this had been written as tightly as Chandler and Hammett - who understood that the whole point of mysteries were to be tightly written -- this would have been very good.
