https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28022.Shamanism
511) and fifty plus pages of bibliography, if he is to be believed, are a quick overview on shamanism as it has been practiced for the past two and a half millenia, covering six of the seven continents and thousands of years.Shamanism is a survey, not a new work; Eliade, here, only attempts to distill what he and others have written in the past, to give the prospective student or researcher an idea of where to begin on a specific topic.
An extract:"It is primarily with the syndrome of the shaman's mystical vocation that we are concerned.
The future shamans among the Tungus, as they approach maturity, go through a hysterical or hysteroid crisis, but sometimes their vocation manifests itself at an earlier age: the boy runs away into the mountains and remains there for a week or more, feeding on animals, which he tears to pieces with his teeth.
It dispels the notion that nature and traditional communities are inherently good or better than the mess of modern civilization and describes a cosmology in which evil beings exist with which the Shaman must struggle with.
One of the three most authoritative works on shamanism, by renowned religious historian, Mircea Eliade. If you want to understand shamanism properly, forgo the New Age nonsense. Eliade's work is finely detailed, expertly researched, and places shamanic practice within an historical context of human spiritual development. There may be Christians, Jews, Muslims and Buddhists who practice Christianity, Judaism, Islam and Buddhism without having read, studied or understood the Bible, the Talmud, the Q'ran or the Dharma Sutras, but such uninformed practice argues against spiritual integrity. Similarly with shamanism and Eliade.
When it comes to finding the roots of processes that we use in our life today (religion, politics, pornography, etc.) there is a certain reticence in our data-driven, highly skeptical world for the sort of thing that Eliade does best: comparative pattern-study.
Eliade looks at instances of shamanism the world-round and finds common denominators that seem to point to archaic, shared world-views amongst those early pockets of humanity thrust into the wider world.Shamanism here is defined as what I call "ecstatic procession" and by "ecstatic" Eliade doesn't mean sex or spine-rotting drugs, he revives its original meaning of "a state outside".
THIS is the book to read if you want to know what REAL shamanism is. This is not fluffy bunny material.
It is focused primarily around the shamanic practices of Siberia and Central Asia—the region where shamanism was first observed and labeled as such—but Eliade links the practices of this region with similar shamanic practices in other parts of the world.
This study is both broad and elaborately detailed.
The subtitle—Archaic Techniques of Ecstasy—belies Eliade’s general approach.
Shaman spirituality is both archaic and ecstatic: archaic in that it invokes the oldest spiritual impulses of humanity stretching back into its prehistory, and ecstatic because it is centered around the flight of spiritual ecstasy experienced by the shaman upon contact with the divine.
There are a bunch of books about shamanism, yet most of them consist of the Neoshamanism template. Usually western people romanticize Shamanism nowadays (e.g. turning our faces to our inner selves and combining our beings with nature by going vegan, meditating and burning some herbs/incense etc. ) when in fact Shamanism is cruel in its own way, considering how people believed that they can make it rain by offering Gods their poor animal victims, even sometimes little children.  Are you fucking k
It is not easy to read, especially for those who are not into Shamanism, but I don’t think the book was addressed to those people.
It’s up to you how much you can take from the book.This book is rather old (1951) and I don’t actually know how accurate it is compared to today’s knowledge on shamanism, still I can say that the author puts different thoughts together well enough to be objective and reflects his own point of view at the same time.
It might be easily the most informative book I’ve read about Shamanism so far.
Metaphysics will always be the alpha and omega of philosophy, and Eliade exposes a rich web of metaphysical theory, medicinal practice, and plenty of dream analysis material in this book, as well as making the argument that the word Shaman itself can be problematic being that it's a bit of a nomadic phenomena.
and that this might have turned some into epileptics, making them candidates for shamanism.
However it does seem that there is a possibility that certain lineages were derived from those prone to seizures and that they were often thought as divine possession episodes.
This book is great because it doesn't try to contextualize primitive shamanism through the lens of any particular religion or philosophy.
It's as if the basic axioms of religion occur to all people in all places.
My favorite aspect of the book was the descriptions of how primitive shamanic societies handle mental illness.
What we would call depressed/bipoloar/schizophrenic youth are identified and immediately placed in the care of an older shaman who himself/herself suffered the same symptoms as a young person.
Instead, he/she is taught a theory of mental illness.
This was a somewhat interesting book...required reading for a class on John Milton. Isn't that odd? We were to make connections between Milton's authorship of Paradise Lost and the Shaman's ecstatic experience.A heavy book, written by a scholar, not a new age Llewellyn author.
I read and re-read this book frequently- it's dense- clear and incredibly illuminating on the topic of all things shamanic. Masterful covering of the topic.
I have read a lot about Shamanism.... i can assure you that in this book you will find almost all the info about Shamans and their Techniques.
A well-researched (and fully footnoted) sociological/ anthropological study of tribal healers and spiritual leaders and a classic work on the subject."The shaman's essential role in the defense of the psychic integrity of the community depends above all else on this: men are sure that one of them is able to help them in the critical circumstances produced by the inhabitants of the invisible world.
It is consoling and comforting to know that a member of the community is able to see what is hidden and invisible to the rest and to bring back direct and reliable information from the supernatural worlds." (500, emphasis Eliade's)
Şamanizm hakkında bilgi edinmek için okuduğum bu kitaptan istediğim her şeyi fazlasıyla aldım. Yazar bölgelere göre farklılıkları ortak yönleri okuyucuyu sıkmadan anlatmış. Şamanizm ritüellerini hayalimde canlandırmamda oldukça yardımcı oldu. Kitabın kalınlığından dolayı sıkıcı olacağını düşünüyordum fakat yazarın farklı kaynaklardan derlediği ve kendi araştırmalarından elde ettiği anlatacak o kadar çok çıkarımı var ki asla kendini tekrar etmiyor.
A huge tome devoted to the study of shamanism. Although a lot of the information is quite outdated the overall quality of the text is excellent. Tons of ethnographic examples from many cultures, culled by Eliade while he sat in his armchair.
Shamanism: Archaic Techniques of Ecstasy, Mircea Eliadeشمنیسم: فنون کهن خلسه، میرجا الیاده
The sublime and unparalleled review. Legit!
Eliade's thesis is that shamans made ascents to the celestial gods and to the underworld through ecstatic techniques, trances.
This is the province of the 'true' shaman, selected by the gods, whose profession is chosen for him, and not by him.
To Eliade, this is a 'concrete mystical experience', whatever that means.
It has to be a real ecstatic state.
The shaman's journey to the sky, the realm of the gods, involves climbing a short tree, or a rope.
Yet Eliade insists that this is not a performance or trickery, but a genuine mystical experience.
Probably a large number of epic 'subjects' or motifs, as well as many characters, images, and cliches of epic literature, are, finally, of ecstatic origin, in the sense that they were borrowed from the narratives of shamans describing their journeys and adventures in the superhuman worlds."It is likewise probable that the pre-ecstatic euphoria constituted one of the universal sources of lyric poetry.
It is from such linguistic creations, made possible by pre-ecstatic 'inspiration,' that the 'secret languages' of the mystics and the traditional allegorical languages later crystallize." pp.
A great deal of the book focuses on the Shamanic traditions of Siberia and Central Asia, the heartlands of Shamanism.
But Eliade goes further than a simple survey of Shamanic beliefs and practices, almost literally taking you into the world of the Shaman.
After having read this book, one will understand the Shamanic mindset and world view far more than one could've imagined; and, as I have said, Eliade goes far beyond the traditional forms of Shamanism in Siberia and Central Asia.
To truely understand Shamanism and its role in Siberia/Central Asia, you must read this book.
Excellent, but dense and a little dry. The subject matter is fascinating, and the connections he makes with Shamanism from around the world, along with the parallels between Shamanistic thought and art and religion, were beyond fascinating. Recommended as a reference book.
Il n’est pas une oeuvre ethnologique comme telle.Ce que j’ai retenu du “chamanisme , … l’extase” est que la religion chamanique est dans son essence monothéiste et était plus cohérent sur le plan théologie que la religion polythéiste de la Grèce antique.
Le paganisme classique était alors une aberration dans la longue histoire de la religion chez les hommes.Mon but quand j’ai entrepris la lecture du “chamanisme et les techniques archaïques de l’extase”: était de comprendre l’influence du chamanisme sur le “Woodland School Of Art” (la peinture Anishnabe canadienne.” Sur ce chapitre il a excédé tous mes attentes.
The parts I read didn't include any real analysis or criticism, just a very dry summary of what happens.
Why this or that practice is followed isn't mentioned which, although of course subjective, gives the more casual reader something.
Having said that, I did buy this for non-academic research into these practices and felt like I was getting nothing but a summary of observations.
I stand to be corrected if what I've mentioned is irrelevant to later parts of the text, and be aware of that if you are thinking of buying.
Anche più di cinque stelle per questa opera.
Prima di tutto per la sua capacità di esprimere concetti anche complessi in modo chiaro e conciso.
Non brillo per intelligenza, ma sono stata in grado di capire tutto e bene al primo colpo.
Non ci si perde mai.
Ultimo ma non meno importante, una scrittura che non annoia, scremata da inutili arzigogoli e deviazioni dal seminario.Unico neo forse l'uso continuo dei nomi dei popoli spesso senza citarne la provenienza in modo specifico.
Ma sottolineo il "forse" perché é un neo dato più dall'ignoranza del lettore che dalla mancanza di competenza dell'autore.
Bardzo ciekawa lektura dla pasjonatów badań antropologicznych, fascynatów pra-religijnych obrzędów. Studium porównawcze wieloletniego dorobku badawczego kilkunastu (właściwie kilkudziesięciu) naukowców. Rzecz dla koneserów, ale momentami potrafi być fascynująca.Kiedy poznajesz przedreligijną podbudowę, łatwiej jest zrozumieć mechanizmy powstawania kultów, ba, paradoksalnie, nie zniechęca to do próby objęcia umysłem religii jako takich, a przeciwnie - czyni je bliższymi i bardziej przestępnymi. Może, dla osób bardzo dosłownie traktujących treść świętych ksiąg, nieco trudnym być zaakceptowanie, że schemat za każdym razem jest jak z matrycy. Cóż, zależy czy chcemy przyjrzeć się prawdzie, czy tylko potwierdzić wpojony nam osąd.
Though speaking from the perspective of a newcomer to the whole subject of Shamanism, I would have preferred if some technical terms had been described more concisely.
The mythology does explain a lot, but it seems as though many technical thing aren't clearly described (such as the origin of the word "shaman"...the whole definition Eliade gives isn't concise as is the case with many other terms.
He seems to like to overcomplicate things a bit).
Other than this issue, the book really was very nicely written, conceptually well-structured and Eliade seems to have a lot of knowledge to share with his readers.
At times fascinating, at other times very academic, this book gave me a good background into the philosophy, history, and ethnology of shamanism and the various forms it has taken throughout the world. It is justly famous for being a jumping-off point for deeper research; it's an excellent summary. My eyes glazed over during many sections, but in the areas that pique my interest--Tibetan Bon, Australian tribes, and South American shamanism--it provided some good information and food for thought. It has definitely clarified for me the beliefs of several friends of mine who practice more North American-influenced shamanism.
Really fascinating history. I knew a bit about shamanism from taking an anthropology class and studying mythology, but really very little in comparison to the depth of knowledge in this history. Mircea Eliade presents a broad overview of historical techniques of shamanism; this is an academic work and not about spiritual archetypal shamanism. As a writer, I think it provides a lot of background and possible writing ideas for storytelling. I'm keeping this on my bookshelf to re-read and use in my writing.
"En general, podemos decir que el chamán defiende la vida, la salud, la fecundidad y el mundo de la "Luz", contra la muerte, las enfermedades, la esterilidad, la desgracia y el mundo de las "tinieblas"." "Pero se sabe que el chamán puede atraer la lluvia, detener las nubes, fundir el hielo de los ríos, y todo ello simplemente cantando o agitando una pluma.""El chamán es el gran especialista del alma humana: solo el la "ve", porque conoce su "forma" y su "destino."
A classical Eliadean approach towards Shamanism.. He compares and traces Shamanism's historical and linguistic roots and seeks Shamanist influences on other religions and religious ideas. Weird techniques of Shamanism is well depicted and beliefs were considered again his own theories such as "sacred time instead of history", "archetypal interactions between sacred and profane", "hierophanies, epiphanies i.e."
