https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65484.Love_s_Long_Journey
Another great book by Janette Oke!! ❤ I do think that I enjoyed the second book slightly more though...it was still a good book all in all! Hoping I can find the other 5 books in this series at my local used bookstores or else I might just have to borrow them from the library :P.
After the second book (which really just felt like a bridge between the first and this one) I was really excited to actually get back to the story. I loved seeing Missie as an adult and building her life. I look forward to the next book!
In between the wagon trip and getting settled, Missie and Willie experienced a long, difficult separation as she stayed in the closest town, which was several days ride from their ranch, awaiting the birth of their baby, while Willie went on to get things set up for them.
I think what I liked most about him is the way he comforts Missie in times of sorrow and truly wants to share her burdens, and also his quiet faith and optimism.There are many things to love about this book.
Where can I find my Willy please?!?
If you enjoy The Oregon Trail game, you will enjoy this.
I'm beginning to realize that I'm not enjoying Janette Oke's writing.
This is a historical read.
One of my gripes about the writing is Janette Oke doesn't make it interesting.
I've read historical reads before so I know they can be made engrossing.I don't really desire to own her books.
I may not be a fan of her writing style but I'm invested in her characters and settings.
I will continue reading this series and her other works my library owns.
Who knows?
For me the biggest reason why I just loved this book is because of the relationship between Missie and Willie and the wonderful picture of what a godly marriage looks like through the example they gave.
It was such a beautiful picture of marriage and for that alone I gave it a firm 5 stars.Another thing I liked about this book is how when reading it, it lead me to gain a deep respect for the people who lived during this prairie time period, as it was not an easy life and there were not any of the modern conveniences we have today.
This is the story of Missie, her marriage to Willie LeHaye, and their adventures together creating their life out west.
The first third of the book or so are their adventures on the wagon train going west.
Once they finally reach the town where their wagon train ends, Missie and Willie's new land is still a week or more wagon ride away.
However, as time goes on, Missie learns to love the new land and homestead she and Willie have set up.
A beautiful story of new adventures in the west.
This was my second time reading this book (March 2015).
This book can be divided up into 2 sections: the travel to Willie's land, and then everything that happens once they arrive.
I'm re-reading the series this year (with hopes of finishing all 8 books this time around-unlike in 2012 when I read only 6).
I think books 1, 3 and 4 are my favourite from what I remember.
What I especially like about this book is the attention to detail and the day-to-day aspects of travel and living in the Canadian West.

I have seen the movie series and i think is different I couldn't tell you how different it really is, you would have to judge that yourself. I did like the book. What I liked was that when the characters were happy you felt happy and when they were sad you felt sad, the book really did show great emotion. There really isn't anything that I don't like about it, but I couldn't say that I can't wait to read it again.
I'm also re-reading this series, it's definitely one of my favorite books in the historical fiction genre. Jeanette Oke is a fabulous author who is such a talented writer!! I also suggest this to anyone!!
Beautiful series of Christian fiction.
Loved this book. If I was to change anything I might have put a bit of comedy but then that might have ruined the whole book. I definitely would recommend this book to many.
So far book #3 is my favorite in this series! Reading about Missie and her husband's journey was funny, touching and loving.
There are some births and deaths and new friends, but mostly the story is as boring as Missie finds the first several months of her life in her new home.
I don't even feel like the relationships in this volume are as rewarding as in previous books.The story is now from Missie's POV.
This book might seem preachy except for these people, their faith, and the wisdom and comfort they get from the Bible are a huge part of their ongoing life and death struggle.
Part of that struggle is loneliness which is a repeated theme throughout the book.
It's fun experiencing the wagon train through Missie's eyes; how she perceives the other people she's traveling.
Nothing bad happens to their wagon train apart from the mother and baby dying, but a young widow joins them after losing her husband trying to cross a swollen river.
Willie's ranch is about two weeks further and he arranges for Missie to stay in town the last three months of her pregnancy.
He doesn't want her stuck at the ranch, two weeks from any help.
Little Nathan Isaiah comes along early and then the LaHayes travel together out to the ranch.
Missie, with her new husband, Willie, go West to start a new life. They face challenges like homesickness, and the fact that Missie is expecting a baby. Then, they face the challenge of building a home, and adjusting to the fact that they are living away from their families. But they persevere through all the challenges and hardships they have to face.This is a great book and a real page turner for me! I didn't want to stop reading once I'd started.
Beautiful story. Takes you to another world where life was simple and women did their duties and kept their homes. This book has very strong women. This is my second time reading this series. First read the series when i was thirteen years old.If you are a fan of christian romance that speaks to the heart, Jannette Oke is the writer to look for
This book really ads to the first two by continuing on with the story. The author does a marvelous job of making you fall in love with this story even more. I definitely recommend this book. You will only wish you had read it sooner.
Wonderful. My favorite so far
This story really brings to life what daily life was like on a wagon train. Very interesting enjoyable read.
Definitely liked this more than the second book. These are easy reads but good uplifting stories so I really enjoy them!
Loves Long Journey....The journey did continue, ohhhh wow, the hardships they faced, but 5hat made the joy even better... please take time to read...
I loved that this book did not glamourise the journey. The relationship between the married couple reflected how a relationship should be, even when there is disappointment.
Loved it!! Looking forward to reading the next book..
Enjoyable!
Sometimes gets a bit boring, but overall, a very informative and interesting read about what it was exactly like back then. Very factual. For the most part, loved it!
When Missie marries her Willie, they embark on a journey across the country, trading crops for cattle and trees for open prairies.
As Missie travels beside her young husband she comes to a greater understanding of what Marty went through before becoming her Mama.
And bonds with this strong, inspiring woman who is now many miles away.Missie also has a suspicion.
One that she is afraid will cut short her journey, so she keeps it from her husband.
Missie also has to let go of some friends as the trials of a cross country trek take them from her, and all new fears creep in.
(Makes sense why all of this part of the book is omitted from the movie version of this book.)The one thing that I didn't like about the latter half of the book, which is similar to the first two books is how the author paces the passing of time.
I wish the passing of time was more evenly paced throughout the book.I will say one of the things I did really like about this book were the relationships that Missie developed with the other characters in the book.
Does that make me a literary snob?This first quote is from the prologue."Wife followed husband, convinced that her rightful place was by his side regardless of the strong tug that pulled her to the home that she had known and loved.
John kindly refrained from prodding her to do more than she felt comfortable doing, coming to the realization that all women were not as hardy as his mother." (I thought that was funny in context.)"'Why didn't ya tell me, Missie?' he said at last.
I don't expect it to be in a church, Missie—but there's lots of folks who need God who never come a-lookin' fer Him in a church.''I'm glad, Henry,' Missie said softly.
