https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/861023.A_Contract_With_God_and_Other_Tenement_Stories
Since these memories about the people and his views about the surroundings are from way past, they have a certain amount of dullness in his mind, which he recaptures in the illustrations through caricature like figures and a monochrome tone which mimic the world of dreams perfectly on the paper.The Sequential Art in ‘A Contract with God’Will Eisner follows a rule of realism while producing the artworks in “A Contract with God” and he uses exaggerations on the depictions of his characters – especially their facial features – to allow for the limitations of actuality.
"They are true stories. Only the telling and the portrayals have converted them to fiction." Will Eisner`s A Contract With God and Other Tenement Stories is simple, intense and deep. An amazing storytelling with wonderful art!
"They are true stories. Only the telling and the portrayals have converted them to fiction."
Will Eisner`s A Contract With God and Other Tenement Stories is simple, intense and deep. An amazing storytelling with wonderful art!
I mean, that's what they tell me; I'm sure that 90 percent of the people reading this review know a hell of a lot more about Will Eisner than I do.
But I do know that 1978's A Contract With God is an incredibly important work in a way that many pieces of art struggle with—it has remained fresh and relevant for all these decades, and even I, as chick and a lit buff and a graphic novel neophyte, could relate to it, and be made devastated and furious by it, and appreciate it wholly.A few months ago, my book club read Frank Miller's Batman: The Dark Knight Returns.
Dio esiste e vive nel BronxCosa rappresenta Contratto con Dio di Will Eisner? 1. il primo libro di un genere, quello della Graphic Novel. Anno 1978 2. Un fumetto dove per la prima volta non ci sono eroi in calzamaglia, ma persone comuni che vivono, pregano, sognano, soffrono 3. Un insieme di disegni con uno stile inconfondibile che esce dai soliti canoni del fumetto 4. Un libro con interessanti riflessioni sulla fede (le persone passano la vita a pensare che se rispetteranno le regole, ossia il
Un fumetto dove per la prima volta non ci sono eroi in calzamaglia, ma persone comuni che vivono, pregano, sognano, soffrono	3.
Un libro con interessanti riflessioni sulla fede (le persone passano la vita a pensare che se rispetteranno le regole, ossia il cosiddetto accordo con Dio, saranno ricompensate.
Anche se tutti sanno, dentro di loro, che questo non è affatto vero)	5.
Un libro a fumetti che per la prima volta si rivolge agli adulti e non ai ragazziUn libro cardine, per gli amanti del genere, che segna il passaggio tra il fumetto e l'arte sequenziale.
Will Eisner's legendary graphic novel (one of the first of its kind) is a semi-autobiographical collection of four sad, sometimes downright bleak and depressing stories centered around the residents of one tenement in the Bronx in or around 1930's.
Eisner's storytelling is masterful, the characters are full of life and the stories still resonate despite being decades old at this point.
It's not a very pleasant read since most of these stories are about human suffering and misery, but there's no artificial melodrama — the stories feel authentic, and the emotions are very real.
A Contract with God is a great book, and every comics reader should read it at some point.
I've reread it a few days ago and I still don't know why this story affects me.
The story wasn't that great, and it was also rather short.
In the book, an orthodox jew loses his faith after his daughter dies.
He doesn't understand, because all he ever did was serving God and after all, he had a contract with God, written on a stone.
I think the mere idea of a contract with God is intriguing.
Some people do lose their fate when something really bad happens to them.
Some people find faith in times of hardship.
Or was it only a faulty contract?
This is a grim graphic novel consisting of four intertwined stories of characters and lives in a 1930s Bronx tenement - basically autobiographical, by the great comic book artist and graphic novel genre creator Will Eisner.
The lead off story ("A Contract with God") reflects the author's anguish at having lost his only daughter at age 16 eight years before he wrote and drew the book.
The bitterness at least in Eisner's book is similar albeit Goya's works are much darker and violent, and the exaggeration, caricature quality of drawings mocking venal types, and greedy types, also reminds me of Daumier's prints https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Honor%C....

Να, όμως, που πριν λίγες μέρες αγόρασα την έκδοση της Απόπειρας στην τρομερή προσφορά που μπορεί να βρει κανείς σε Πρωτοπορία/πολιτεία, και σήμερα την διάβασα και την απόλαυσα μέσα σε δυο ωρίτσες.
Ασπρόμαυρο, ρεαλιστικό, σε σημεία έντονο και ωμό, μας μεταφέρει στην δύσκολη δεκαετία του '30 στις Ηνωμένες Πολιτείες, στις λαϊκές συνοικίες της Νέας Υόρκης (συγκεκριμένα σε μια πολυκατοικία, που υποθέτω ότι θα ήταν παρόμοια με αυτή στην οποία μεγάλωσε ο ίδιος ο σχεδιαστής).
Δε το συζητάω, στα λεφτά που μπορεί να το βρει κανείς πλέον, είναι ανεπίτρεπτο να μην το έχετε ήδη αγοράσει.
El cómic que puso en el tapete el término novela gráfica.
Para entonces estaba a mitad de camino entre un cómic y un cuento ilustrado.
Tres historias en sepia que pueden ser autobiográficas o circundantes del autor en su infancia.
Tres historias sobre la primer generación nacida en territorio americano descendiente de la gran inmigración de hace ya más de cien años.
La ambientación es la Brooklyn pobre en un momento mucho más pobre, la gran depresión.
Dan la sensación de que pudieron haber sido la historia de muchos en aquel entonces.
"Mai prima d'ora la vita e i drammi quotidiani delle case popolari negli anni Trenta e Quaranta sono stati rappresentati con tale vividezza e vitalità...Contratto con Dio tesse un arazzo di storie su personaggi che potremmo essere noi tutti."Il titolo della storia si riferisce all'esplorazione del rapporto tra Dio e gli uomini.
"Fin dall'inizio sappiamo tutti che Dio ci punirà o ricompenserà a seconda di come ci siamo comportati in conformità con un patto stipulato con lui" scrisse Eisner.
Nel 1977 o all'inizio del 1978, dopo avere tentato senza successo di interessare editori importanti, Eisner mostrò il progetto a Norman Golfind, che accettò di pubblicare il libro.
Talo Bronxissa sisältää realistisia, nopeita tarinoita 1930-luvun New Yorkin köyhistä juutalaiskortteleista. Will Eisnerin kynänjälki on elävää ja tarinat rujoja ja koskettavia. Ajankuva on kiehtovaa.
The characters are caricatures of lives from Eisner's past, and while it is a primarily Jewish neighborhood, I think anyone with a brain and heart pumping blood, etc can identify with the scenese painted here.
It tackles those subjects that stuff like "The Wire" still tries (and fails) to capture today - those sinews that bind each life together, and ultimately keep them bound if not to each other, then certainly rooted to the Spot, which in this case, is a Bronx ghetto, and more specifically, a tenement building at #55 Dropsie Avenue.
"(...) em muitos casos deixei que uma página inteira se transformasse em painel. O texto e os balões ficaram interligados com a arte. Vejo-os a todos como fios de um tecido único e exploro-os como uma linguagem. Se tiver tido sucesso, então não haverá interrupção no fluxo da narrativa, porque imagem e texto estarão tão interdependentes um do outro, que se tornarão inseparáveis, nem que seja por um momento." (do prefácio, pelo autor)
Outras poderiam ser verdadeiras.” São quatro contos gráficos – “Um Contrato com Deus”, “O Cantor de Rua”, ”O Zelador” e ”Cookalein - com um denominador comum: o prédio do número 55 da Avenida Dropsie, no Bronx, Nova Iorque, nos anos de 1930, na época da Grande Depressão.
1 – “Um Contrato com Deus”: a primeira parte deste livro, examina o tema da relação do homem com Deus… Dizem-nos de início que Deus nos irá castigar ou recompensar, dependendo do nosso comportamento, e de acordo com um pacto… Criar esta história foi um exercício de agonia pessoal.
When I read really old comics, I'm usually unenthused.
Before reading Hergé's Tintin, I heard all about its groundbreaking and influential place in the history of graphic books.
But reading Tintin is an altogether disappointing experience.
The art is dull and simplistic, the stories are poorly written, and the whole experience is uninspiring.
I'm sure that someone smarter than me can explain its merits, but they are not self-evident.A Contract with God, however, is the exact opposite.
It does not feel like the first graphic novel ever produced.
It feels fresh and utterly creative.
The art is wonderful, the story is intriguing, the writing and pacing is masterful.
I read this for a course I'm taking at the local library in July about Jewish literature, identity and imagination - the course is being taught solely through graphic novels.
I found the main story to be allegorical - man is good, makes a contract with god, which all Jews have from birth.
Life takes a bad turn, man loses faith and, in the story, literally tosses it out the window, thereby turning hard and mean.
The rest of the stories seemed to give a slice of tenement life for Jewish immigrants in the 30s/40s and I found the stories interesting though I'm not entirely sure what they had to do with the "Contract with God".
This is intense.
The storytelling is strong and is matched with expressive art.
Among other things, I appreciated the use of space: the arrangement of panels and the interplay of lettering and drawing.
The subject matter, the characters, the setting make this a substantial collection of tales--real stories, human stories.
My favorite was the multifaceted drama of "Cookalien." The title story, "Contract with God," was intense, thought-provoking.
"The Street Singer" I didn't like as much but for the twist at the end.
All in all, I haven't read many graphic novels and am impressed that such excellent work can be made of such "mundane" subject matter.
Uma excelente iniciativa do jornal Público/Editora Levoir, por publicar uma coleção de novelas gráficas.E começa bem com um inédito em Portugal do Will Eisner.As estórias são muito boas, à volta do bairro da juventude do autor nos anos 30 do século XX. Gosto muito do grafismo, da composição e do desenho. Ponto negativo para as alterações nas feições dos personagens em cada situação. As personagens não estão muito bem definidas visualmente.Um livro pioneiro.
Quatro histórias sobre vidas, ambições e modos de pensar distintos. Tal como no magnífico "New York: Life in the Big City", Will Eisner elaborou um mosaico de personagens e situações delirantes, mas simbolicamente representativas de todos nós. Um espantoso e genial retrato das ambiguidades humanas e das injustiças sociais, através de um único prédio e de todos os seus habitantes (e daqueles que o rodeiam), numa avenida banal da América do passado.
Poursuivi par la malédiction, Frimme va connaitre encore bien des péripéties, car il est évident que les nouvelles de Will Eisner ne se terminent jamais très bien pour qui vit dans la célèbre avenue du Bronx.Les deux nouvelles suivantes mettent en scène deux personnages bien différents de prime abord, mais à la fin tout aussi tragique l'une que l'autre.
L'autre individu est ce concierge, procédurier et sans pitié, toujours râleur et donneur de bons conseils, qui vit dans un sous-sol du 55 Dropsie Avenue, avec pour seule compagnie son molosse à quatre pâtes qui terrorise tous les habitants de l'immeuble dont il a la charge.
Such beautiful artwork, with details to show what the protagonist feels in every panel, gripping narration making you feel for the characters and interwoven plots on the same panel - this book is different from every other graphic novel I've read.
The preface sets the tone for the book, and you know the stories are real, the people are too.
And that makes it hard to just read this book and forget, coz now these people are in your mind and you cannot forget them when you are similar protagonists around you.
Este, ao regressar à casa e à família impossível de sustentar no meio dos tempos duros da depressão, começa a sonhar com um futuro melhor, mas a mente toldada pelo alcool recusa-se a deixá-lo recordar a morada da mulher que lhe prometera um melhor futuro.
A mesma chuva imponente com que o livro abre, no início das desventuras do homem que ao perder a fé lança como palco o edifício que será sempre a peça centrar destas histórias.Um prazer, graças à Levoir, de regressar à Nova Yorque de Will Eisner nesta que foi a primeira das graphic novels com que encerrou uma carreira dedicada aos comics que nos legou não só personagens clássicas como uma nova forma cinematográfica de entender o espaço visual da banda desenhada.
The text becomes a part of the art – lettering dripping wet with rain or as shown as laundry hanging on the line.
Eisner’s use of black backgrounds that create panels by contrast alone asks the viewer to engage with the gutter/lack of a gutter in a way I have not seen before.
The smooth transition between panels and panel-less pages is so well executed it took me a few chapters to even see it.I found many of the plot lines very unsettling.
Readers beware, this comic contains domestic violence, rape, and physical violence.
Overall, I think this comic holds an important place in history, but I would not recommend it to many readers today.
I picked this book on my first visit to a public library, when I almost robbed their entire graphic novels section.
Now I am a couple of wikipedia entries wiser and am looking forward to reading more of Will Eisner's works(I've managed to locate the spirit and the rest of the Contract with God trilogy).
A Contract with God and other Tenement stories takes place in and around a Jewish tenement in Bronx.
There are particular frames that I lingered on for quite a while, taking in the unique perspective and the way the lettering blends into the frame.
I've tried to The Spirit before, but never took much of a liking to it; due to that, I was hesitant about picking up A Contract With God. A friend recommended it to me, though, so I felt a bit bound to go through with giving it a try.
I'm actually rather happy that I did.While comics like Maus take a view of the Holocaust and bring it home in the graphic form, A Contract With God did wonders with the dirty 30s tenement lifestyle.
Unlike most comics, this one let the eye flow nicely over the page so it was almost like a film unfolding before you.The subject matter was gritty, the dialogue colloquial and a bit harsh.
http://nhw.livejournal.com/229463.html[return][return]This is very good. The title story in particular (I have actually been to the synagogue in Tbilisi/Tiflis, where the main character starts his life), and the last story, "Cookalein" which juggles about a dozen characters and storylines and stays on top of them all in only 50-odd pages are very memorable; I was a bit less satisfied with the middle two, which both feature nasty male characters who exploit those around them and then get their come-uppance.
The first of the four stories, A Contract With God, is my favorite, but the book in its entirety is revolutionary. The first if its kind, this graphic novel surpassed my expectations. Not only are the stories poignant and interestingly complex, the drawings are spectacularly detailed and, frankly, quite beautiful.
I'm not quite sure what I just read. The title story is must clear cut, and heart breaking. The other stories tend to be on that line of rape and sexual power that make you feel a bit icky. There is also sucide and animal death.Yet, the stories are extremely powerful. It is worth the read.
Menarik melihat bagaimana pergulatan hidup manusia sehari-hari digambarkan dengan apik oleh Eisner. Belajar sedikit juga tentang budaya dan kebiasaan Yahudi. Jadi siapa pun yang meremehkan novel grafis dengan alasan tidak intelek, dude you don't know what you're missing!
