https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/867623.The_Chill
It doesn't take Lew long to find Dolly, but by the time he does she is tangled up in two murders and mired even more deeply in the past.
The book is filled with lies and false identities, and, when the full truth is known and the last mask is off—a few pages before the book's end—the result is surprising and yet satisfying too.The imagery of The Chill is particularly fine.
There is the usual Macdonald imagery: the dynamic past, the fragile present, the blighted future, and a superabundance of masks.
I can sum up everything I think about this novel in just one short word, "Wow!" This is actually exactly what I said right after I turned over the last page.
The novel has practically everything I expect from a good mystery: a good mystery (sorry for a bad pun), countless plot twists that were still possible to keep track of, interesting cast of people most of whom had some skeletons in the past.
I was able to solve the mystery at the same time as Archer did - to be fair it happened practically on the last page.
Some of the lines from 'The Chill' were so sharp they could cut a day into dark chocolate, bite-sized hours.
'The Chill' had a pretty good twist at the end.
The only downside to the novel was it almost needed an overcoat with extra pockets for all the characters.
By the end, I needed a small pocket book to keep all femme fatales and dead women straight.
Like most Macdonald novels, the dénouement of the Chill seems to snake into your pants, squirm and bite you before you are quite ready for the book to end.
If you want to read one Macdonald book, this is it.
And it is Macdonald's skill to have been able to create plausibly, and in less than 300 pages, such a web of neurotic entanglements that the normal person might find it hard to credit them..., but which I can tell you (from bitter experience) is anything but rare in this world.
Macdonald transposed the psychology to the murder-scenario where it gains a certain plausibility and allows for a certain purity of analysis.
Purity of analysis.But make no mistake, it is simply the human condition he has come to analyze in its rawest forms.
And now I understand why those more au fait than Ross McDonald than I, have been heartily recommending that I read ‘The Chill’.This is one of the best detective novels I’ve read (and I really haven’t been a slouch at picking up detective novels).
And this is the book of MacDonald’s, of those I’ve read so far, where the fact that Archer is something of a cipher is best used.
If you like Ross MacDonald, or like Chandler – or enjoy mysteries of any hue – ‘The Chill’ is definitely recommended.
Pour alcohol on a bundle of nerves and it generally turns into a can of worms.
The trouble was, in the scene I had just walked out of, there was no right thing to do - only sins of commission and omission."The best reference to large breasts in all of literature: "Roy has always been attracted to women who are obviously mammals.""The Chill" may be my favorite Ross Macdonald book yet and that's really saying something.
He is world weary but simultaneously compelled to do the right thing.
These are real people with real pain that Macdonald writes about.
Chandler features a strong first-person narrator (Marlowe) and plots made up of well-crafted scenes (and many loose ends).
Macdonald's narrator (Lew Archer) is a minor character who just happens to be in every scene and his plots are as clever and intricate as the best British mysteries.
As Archer tries to piece together the past (and the present, which has murders of its own before long) he finds himself moving through the various social strata of a coastal college town in southern California.
Getting the inevitable comparison out of the way, this is the second Ross MacDonald novel I've read and he does not come close to the soul Raymond Chandler poured into his novels.
Not coming close to Chandler doesn't mean MacDonald is not any good, however.
Yes, I would have loved to see Chandler write this story to see stronger atmosphere, shinier corpses (metaphorically), and a grand hammering of academia, but it is Ross Macdonald's story and as I sped through curiously to its hidden conclusion, I had to give him credit: my spine shivered and I felt "the chill."
... wow. Page after page linear story, verbose, dead dialogue and shallow characters. I'm done.Hmmm.... I was having trouble remembering "The Chill" when challenged by a friend. I see I reviewed and rated it in March, but apparently I did not finish it. It looks like I read at least 10%.*checks and reads back*Yes, the first 12% of the book is horrifically verbose and dull. Stilted clichéd dialogue, sometimes smart-alec but without being snappy, reads like a laundry list.Ponderous. Perhaps it picks up later?
This is, as of its reading, my favorite Macdonald novel.
Better by leaps and bounds than the books that came before it, although I see that The Galton Case could have been the real breakthrough-- The Chill takes Macdonald's previous novel's sophisticated use of plot and character and turns them in on themselves.
The introductions Macdonald provided to Archer in Hollywood, Archer at Large (where I read this novel and The Galton Case) and Archer in Jeopardy are his version of James's New York Edition Introductions, and are well worth reading.
Classic noir tale of murder in 1960's Los Angeles. PI Lew Archer is methodical and relentless in his pursuit of answers for his young bridegroom client. Thanks Billy Baer for the book and recommendation!
Ross MacDonald is, for me, the guy you keep on dating way too long because he's got lots of qualities that you value and you're convinced you should be really into him, but no matter how hard you try, despite the odd fun night or great conversation, that certain something just isn't there.I'm not sure what the problem is.
Excellent example of the gumshoe style of mystery. One aspect that I particularly like is the fact that the book is focused entirely on the mystery - no long passages about the detective's personal problems. I don't mean to imply that Lew Archer is one-dimensional but that he is a man who focuses on the job. This had plenty of twists and surprises but none that the author 'cheats' with - the reader learns about them when Archer does.
For a crime mystery to be written over 50 years ago and still pack a punch, it has to be good. And this one was very good. Three murders over 20 years, a cast of potential suspects (maybe too many characters), great descriptions of people, a lead character who is on every page but does not dominate the story and a series of twists right up to the last paragraph. Maybe the dialogue was a bit dull and circular at times but overall I was impressed with my first Ross Macdonald book.
"Το ρίγος", εκδόσεις ΒΙΠΕΡ.Το δεύτερο βιβλίο που διαβάζω με ήρωα τον Λιου Άρτσερ, το πρώτο ήταν το πολύ καλό Η νεκροφόρα με τις ρίγες.
Το Ρίγος μου φάνηκε λίγο καλύτερο.
Κλασικό νουάρ της δεκαετίας του '60, με τα όλα του.
Με φόνους, μυστήριο, κρυμμένα μυστικά, οικογενειακά πάθη, έρωτες, τα πάντα.
Πάρα πολύ καλή πλοκή, με ανατροπές και αποκαλύψεις, και με ένα τέλος πολύ δυνατό και αποκαλυπτικό - δεν μπορώ να πω ότι το περίμενα.
Επίσης, ζωντανοί και αληθινοί χαρακτήρες, πιστευτοί και έξυπνοι διάλογοι, καλές περιγραφές και εξαιρετική ατμόσφαιρα.
Ένα αστυνομικό με τα όλα του, με λίγα λόγια.
Η γραφή επιπέδου Τσάντλερ και βάλε.
Another totally satisfying Ross Macdonald book. Many think he's a weaker imitation of Chandler, and obviously he was inspired, but - unpopular as this admission might be - at times I think I like Macdonald better. He's more subtle and he always has a stellar mystery.
An excellent hardboiled detective story in the vein of Chandler and Hammett and an exploration of festering secrets and compounding li(v)es. Plus it's one of the most intricately plotted mysteries I've read - plausible tension that lasts until the final paragraphs. 4.5 stars
Pretty much cookie cutter but like a cool dinosaur shaped cookie cutter rather than just a plain round one.
Taut, fast-paced, snappy dialogue, with wisecracks sometimes reminiscent of the 40s noirs, but still modern enough to make you mentally picture Paul Newman or Steve McQueen in the main role instead of Humphrey Bogart.
Which is nice, as it serves to rekindle interest in his, possibly interesting, work.
Still, her black eyes were alert, like unexpected animal or bird life in the ruins of a building.There were mottoes on the walls instead of pictures, and one of them brought back with a rush and a pang my grandmother's house in Martinez.
It said: 'He is the Silent Listener at Every Conversation.' My grandmother had hand-embroidered the same motto and hung it in her bedroom.
This leads Archer to stumble onto a professor's murder, which in turn helps him to uncover over two decades of duplicity, covert deceptions, and deflection.
In truth there's something unfailing similar between this novel and MacDonald's 'Black Money', yet different.
For me, this book is the superior novel.
It didn't surprise me to learn this book was published two years after 'Black Money'.
However, as excellent as it was, I can't help but feel there's something essentially pat about the overall quality of Ross MacDonald's writing; it's competent with a well-drawn leading character that hooks you in...
The plotting of THE CHILL is absolutely superb.
The mystery is convoluted, wonderfully visceral and the cast is absurdly complicated, but in the best possible way.
Somebody on Amazon called it 'Hitchcockian' and I would say it's absolutely right.But......but...but...but...That dialogue, guys.
It was some of the most frustrating, cardboard dialogue stapled over one of the most brilliant mysteries I've ever read.
I was watching an episode of Law & Order SVU last night before finishing and I was marveling about how much subtler the dialogue was than in the novel I was reading.
Ross MacDonald: great mind for crime, sophisticated pen, but THAT DIALOGUE, GUYS.
Unfortunately for the girl she is murdered that night, so having some law around may have helped a bit.
There are a lot of characters to follow in this tale of murder and deceit, which is both confusing and fun.
It's easy to follow Nancy Drew; there are only six characters in the book, one dies, and one is the murderer so the big reveal isn't very surprising.
In this novel I was lost in the web of characters a few times, but I managed to place everyone just by the end so I could connect who the murderer was.
During one of my "I gotta read all this hard-boiled stuff" phases, I had come across Ross Macdonald, or more accurately, Lew Archer.
Abe books had enabled me to access a dog-eared copy of "My Name is Archer" (o-o-p at that point), and it was love at first fight, erm...
Then, I simply HAD TO get hold of this novel, often touted as the best of Macdonald.
I got it, read it, and still feel rather chilled as I think of those last few pages as the maze suddenly unraveled, and it seemed that the Minotaur was among us all the time!
Ed Brubaker, author of some brilliant comic books including "Criminal", "The Fade Out", and "Kill or Be Killed," recommended this book.
It's my first experience of Ross Macdonald's 'Lew Archer' series and I've read that this is one of the best.
It's a masterful example of hardboiled crime fiction with line after line of quotable prose.
Not a light read, it's a book where you need to pay close attention to the twisting plot.
I regret not taking notes whilst reading it because there are a lot of characters to keep track of, especially the women.
It has left me curious to read more in the series.Recommended!
Lew Archer’s hardened moral super-man investigates a byzantine network of family relations and tragic back stories. All of them basically have this plot, but I thought this one was simpler, harder, and better written. Like this little gem-…”It’s really amazing, you know? You really can make a decision inside yourself. You can decide to be one thing or the other.”The only trouble was that you had to make the decision every hour on the hour. But he would have to find that our for himself.What the shit have you written today, you two-bit penny-scribbling hack?
Well that was weird...
Ross Macdonald wrote some terrific books, and I would count myself a fan, but I do find that the quality varies a little.
Sometimes his ear failed him.This one is on MWA's list of the hundred best mysteries ever, so I was prepared to be blown away; sadly I thought it was not one of Macdonald's best.A young man just married after a whirlwind romance hires Archer to find his bride, who skipped out on the first day of the honeymoon; the trail leads to a local college, where it turns out the bride was a student.
Macdonald wrote better books than this.
This reading confirmed that the plot of this Lew Archer episode was one of the most complex he had ever written.
It starts out simply enough: a young man approaches Archer with a problem – his wife has left him and disappeared.
The problem does not have a simple solution.
The reasons for his wife leaving him involve family history, money, greed, and mental instability.
I still consider the plot as labyrinthine, but this time through I managed to keep it all straight.
Many critics of crime novels consider this Macdonald’s best work.
I don't have any pithy quotations to include in this review.
I read this book expecting a really good read; I was very satisfied with the writing.
The man has great ideas, descriptions, characters and motivations and this book has all of them.Although I have now digested several of his novels and short fiction, I continue to be surprised and impressed.
I couldn't see how this story was going to tie up all the loose plot lines, but I assure you it does.
I have to say that the final plot twist in "The Chill" is one of the best ever.Now, it's your turn.
There is something about Ross Macdonald's Lew Archer mysteries that reminds me of Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin novels about Napoleonic War sea battles.
The Aubrey/Maturin novels came to be so successful that O'Brian had to stretch the timing of the battles, which took place all around the Seven Seas, such that some of them had to take place in an alternative universe, given the time constraints.In a similar way, Macdonald's Lew Archer is so busy that the days he spends on his cases are almost impossibly eventful.
