https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1360734.Death_at_the_President_s_Lodging
Dr Josiah Umpleby, President of St Anthony's College, has been shot and Inspector Appleby is sent to help local authority, Inspector Dodd, discover the murderer.
The mystery is very much an academic exercise, with Appleby outlining possible suspects, motives and methods.
The book is a little dry at the beginning, but if you enjoy novels set in this era and this type of academic mystery, then you will really enjoy it.Appleby is a very intelligent, well read hero, whose abilities in deduction consist more in considering and working out the clues, rather than in action.
3.5 stars. Cerebrally enjoyable, university setting was well-done, but characters were not stand-outs. Felt more like pieces of a puzzle to be moved around, and denouement fell flat, felt incomplete. Innes wrote a plethora of Sir John Appleby books, will try another to see if he improves. I want to like them, find another vein of Golden Era detective fiction.
Fortunately Appleby can quote major and minor philosophers with the best of them and has more than a passing knowledge of all the arcane subjects covered in a classical Oxbridge education, all of which will no doubt help him to uncover who killed the President and why.The tone of my introduction may have been somewhat of a spoiler for my opinion of the book, so I may as well jump straight to the conclusion – I abandoned this at just under 40%, finally throwing in the towel when one of the characters hinted that the clue to the mystery might be found in an anecdote about Kant quoted in a book by De Quincey.
Inspector Appleby was not a knight at the time of writing, so plain Inspector Appleby was brought in from The Yard to assist a local Inspector with the rather dull name of Dodd to solve the crime for which there were, in the end, six (I think) suspects, all of them academics.
There were lots of arcane references to arcane poets and equally arcane philosophers and it all became rather academically dull, full of literary puffery and intellectual snobbery.
Death at the President’s Lodging introduces readers to Inspector Appleby, at this point a young but rising detective with Scotland Yard.
He is sent into the medieval confines of a (fictional) Oxford college, where the president has been murdered in his own study.
Early on it becomes clear that the murderer is most likely one of the president’s colleagues, and in fact most of the investigation takes place, claustrophobically enough, within the walled confines of the college.
Stewart’s work, both the mysteries written as Michael Innes and the pure fiction he wrote under his own name.
Πολύ παλιό πια και οχι και τόσο κλασικό. Ευχάριστο όμως ανάγνωσμα.
And Cabinet ministers are by definition "normal." O tempore--o mores!By the end of the book I was startled to realise that all the action takes place in the compass of about three days.
The denouement gave me the feeling that to really understand what happened and what didn't, I'd need to read the whole book again--but by that time I didn't really want to.I haven't given up yet; Innes wrote and published until the late 1980s, and perhaps his later work was better developed.
February 2017 -- I found this less slow this time around and more fun!Review from March 2013:Seven Suspects is the American title of Michael Innes' first Inspector Appleby book Death at the President's Lodging.
The murder of a university president forms the basis of this version of a locked room mystery.I found the beginning slow going, mostly due to Innes' style of prose.
I don't think this is the type of mystery where the reader can figure out who is guilty before the detective (I certainly didn't!) but Innes plays fair - there are no hidden clues or evidence only the detective is privy to.
The circumstances are contrived, to say the least, but Innes notes this with some dry remarks from his protagonists and to begin with it's a decently put together mystery as the suspects are narrowed down to a small number of College dons.
There is a dry academic wit running through the whole thing, with an ironic tone toward the practices of the College and the conduct of its fellows – with all of which Innes himself was extremely familiar, of course.
I found, though, that half way through it began to pall and that witty prose but a very contrived and complex plot being very slowly revealed wasn't really enough to carry the rest of the book.
Este es un libro que disfruté pero entiendo que quien no sea tan aficionado al género policíaco clásico, pueda resultarle algo..
pesado?
máxime si se tratara de un primer acercamiento a un típico caso de asesinado de habitación cerrada, aquí un College, porque en Muerte en la rectoría, aparecen en el final de la resolución de la investigación, tantos implicados que puede llegar a parecer enrevesado, pero no por ello carente de lógica.
Sadly did not appeal to me. I found it very dry and not enough to keep me interested in the characters. Will have to try another to see if it was just this particular story.
This is the start of a very long classic detective series, revolving around an Inspector Appleby. I couldn't really keep my interest in it. While I think the audiobook narrator contributed to this, the story just felt bogged down and wordy. It did pick up toward the end, and I think the denouement was meant to be comedic, but I probably won't go on with this series.If not for a reference to Mae West and two lines from a laundress, this book would appear to exist in a world without women.Content warning: outright equates criminality with mental illness.
Good fun, otherwise, though; the prose is intelligent and there is even a surprisingly effective streak of humor running throughout.
I particularly enjoyed the denouement as the intelligence and quick-thinking qualities of the suspects were brought into play.
Here was a society of men much above the average in intelligence, the product of a variety of severe mental trainings, formidably armed with knowledge.
The secret was hidden amongst them and intelligence and athletic thinking would be needed to reveal it" (62)."Appleby knew how, on the level of intellectual dispute, these men would toss a ball around in just that way, each trying to embarrass the other.
In Death at the President’s Lodging Innes (as I shall continue to call him now) created an intricately plotted mystery – the full solution to which I would say is fairly impossible to work out.
The atmosphere of a 1930’s male dominated world of fusty academics is brilliantly re-created here.
Quietly and a little ponderously written, Death at the President’s Lodging takes slow and careful reading, there is little in the way of action – and the interplay and dialogue between characters drives much of the mystery.full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
Surely it was time.I picked up the first Inspector Appleby mystery, Death at the President’s Lodging.I knew from the opening paragraph what I could expect: a classic mystery, shot through with intelligence and wit.“An academic life, Dr Johnson observed, puts one little in the way of extraordinary casualties.
It was lovely to watch suspects being gradually eliminated instead of the traditional dramatic finale with everyone still a suspect, and I appreciated that the identity of the murder was simply revealed to the remaining fellows, and the facts explained afterwards.It took time and concentration to read Death at the President’s Lodging.
As a reader, you can sip a cup of tea and breeze through a novel which engages your mind pleasantly for a few hours.Death at President’s Lodging plot is very similar to any “closed house limited number of suspects” murder stories.
However, the access to the lodging is limited and controlled by a set of keys which are in the hands of a few people.
The access to the college in which the lodge is located is limited at night and controlled by a set of keys, which is again the in the hands of a few people.
A wonderful example of a classic Golden Age detective novel, intelligent and witty, making smart use of the conventions and artificialities of the genre.
In the tradition of the referenced "manor house in a snowstorm" mystery, the murder takes place in a closed system with a limited number of possible suspects.The erudite 1936 writing style takes some getting used to (it is slow going at first), but the effort expended is worthwhile.John Appleby series - Inspector Appleby is called to St. Anthony's College, where the president has been murdered in his lodging.
Scandal abounds when it becomes clear that the only people with any motive to murder him are the only people who had the opportunity, because the president's lodging opens off Orchard Ground, which is locked at night and only the Fellows of the college have keys.
From the back of the book: At St. Anthony's College, Inspector John Appley must contend with academic intrigues, scholarly scandals, and one very clever killer.
Murder in the sanctity of an english university was bad enough; but such a vulgar, ungentlemanly murder--bones scattered about the room, a grotesque drawing of grinning death's-heads scrawled on the wall, and poor President Umpleby's head wrapped in an academic robe--was a serious blot on the college's reputation.
In this complex and brilliantly resolved mystery Inspector John Appleby matches withs with some of the smartest--and most devious--suspects he has ever encountered.My take: My favorite Appleby...with an academic setting!
I had just finished an Agatha Christie novel before reading this.
I read this as it was on a list of classic mysteries.
I have to say it was very good, absorbing, fast paced, and kept me guessing.
My only detraction, thus the four star, was that it was almost too challenging a book for enjoyment purposes.
I felt slightly tired by the end.
I am sure there are many that would love keeping track of the minutiae in order to solve the crime, however I found it a little confusing.
For mystery lovers this is a gem and setting your mind against Appleby's is a thrill.
The first of what would become several Inspector Appleby mysteries, These novels by Innes are erudite and feature literary references many of which I did not get but I enjoyed being in such deep water. This one in particular shows a deep investigation into the human psyche. While meant as a fun mystery it is does not shy away from examining the psychology of a murderer.
Couldn't decide between a two or a three star rating for this book. The mystery is complex which is enjoyable but the story didn't really hit the spot with me. However, I enjoyed the way it came together at the end.
This book did not appeal to me, although I really hoped it would.
Still unclear to me, found them to be very annoying.And leaving the murderer free to commit suicide as a form of justice amongst "gentlemen"...
Not the wrap up I fancy.Maybe the audiobook format let this book down.
Though the narrator was very good and has a lovely proper English voice, there are too many things going on and paper would have the benefit of easily going back and reread and to skip skip skip skip ahead in those super annoying last chapters.
On this reading, my third, I think, I was not so impressed.It is just TOO clever for its own good, too playful, too concerned to toy around with the genre-not a closed room mystery but essentially a very restricted access college problem.Appleby, the dons, and the undergrads, talk too much and do too much.
What is essentially a simple crime of murder, becomes rather boringly convoluted.One of the dons, Gott, writes detective novels and this adds another ingredient to the mixture, making things especially complex, since Gott is involved in devising yet another crime!The writing is as excellent as you would expect from an academic writing in the 1930's, with lots of literary allusions.

He has a drier tone than Crispin or Carr, uses the same sort of University background as Crispin, and at least in this book, his detective Appleby is the most enigmatic character in the book.
A complicated plot that definitely has merit, and I want to try at least one other book in the series (if I judged Agatha Christie solely on The Mysterious Affair at Styles I might not have read her better books later!) before deciding if I like it or not.
An Interesting and Intriguing Mystery, However...While I enjoy reading good descriptive prose, Mr. Innes' use of archaic and pedantic language, as well as extremely verbose descriptions unfortunately bored me.
I read the entire book because I wanted to know which person was the murderer.
About two thirds through the book, editing failed for several sentences, including Appleby's name.
By the end of the book when Appleby was revealing the murderer, I found myself skipping page after page of over-description.
I dislike writing critical reviews but felt it necessary here, because the mystery itself is interesting.
In the midst of a very strange and difficult time of life, this book was a welcome solace.
The opening paragraphs are some of the most enjoyable I have read in quite some time.
While some may find the tone and characters pedantic and tedious, I did not, but that's likely because I am effectively the intended audience of this book.
So I can't really recommend this book to you unless you are a staunch Anglophile or Golden Age of Mystery fan or simply a person who enjoys satisfyingly clever language use, but if you are at least one of those people, track this one down and delight in it.
I found this read very slow going.
The murder was one of those all doors closed and barred.
On top of it all very few people had keys.
Then again the murdered President of the College changed the keys one day before he was killed but again limited few given keys.
How did the murderer execute this very dramatic murder?
Everyone of his colleagues seem to have a watertight alibi and those who do not, do not have any grudge or reason to get rid of the President.
Academia described in detail, Inspector Appleby trying to solve a seemingly unsolvable murder.
It's a lovely puzzle, but truth be told: it's a bit old-fashioned, long sentences, lots of characters, an intricate plot and all set in an English university, so I was a bit mystified by various customs which I had to stop and research because it seemed to be crucial: for example "proctoring" which I understand to oversee an exam, but in this setting involved people following other people in the middle of the night, switching robes and whatnot.
(And THAT was all one sentence.
You see what I mean?)So: in the end, too mysterious.
