https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/542752.Things_Not_Seen
It never stopped being weird to me that the invisible teenager spends most of the book hanging around naked in public next to a girl he has a crush on.The other interesting detail that stuck with me: invisible poo only stays invisible for a little while. Does that count as a spoiler?

Things Not Seen is an interesting, creative and I believe successful way to introduce disability to teens and adults.
So that's why I'm saying...what do I do?" Soon Bobby meets and becomes friends with Alicia who is blind.
The way Alicia's mother reacts to Bobby is very humorous.
Other great books for teens (and older) on disability issues include: Rules, Hurt Go Happy, and The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time.
Though it has a few bits of sci-fi in it--mainly centering around Bobby becoming invisible, and attempting to become visible again--it's more or less a coming of age novel, with a heavy dose of adventure.
I really, really liked this book--after all, I read it over 10 years ago and I still remember it well enough to say all this.
It may not be your typical classic, but I know I'll be re-reading this book soon now that I've recalled it, and I know I'll do so over and over again in the years to come.
Andrew Clements really kept this interesting and reallistic. If it was a series, I would have devoured it in a few days.
Intelligent SF for teens? A fable for all ages about people who are "different" - ? An adventure for MG readers? Never mind the labels, just read it. I did, twice, and now I'm going to read the second, which I own, and try to find the third....(But don't worry if you don't want to start a series - the first stands alone just fine.)
This book surprises - the idea of an invisible boy seemed too far-fetched for a novel that would otherwise fit into the catagory of realistic fiction. But Clements finds a way, in the creation of Bobby's relationship with Alicia, to make this a story that digs deeper into other issues about invisibility. When will Bobby's parents stop ignoring him to see him for who he really is? Who sees Alicia for who she really is now that she's blind, and what can she now "see"? This was a good choice for discussion with my 6th graders.
Absolutely breathtakingly amazing. Epic!!!!! There's a second one and I HAVE to get it now. My soul can't go on without the next book!!!!!!
At first, when I read about two or three chapters I thought this book will be about an avarage teenager looking for the real meaning of life and becoming more mature.
This was quiet remarkable how the arthur thought about putting to completely unusual characters and made things work.Moreover, when Bobby truned invisible, his parents did not know where to look at when talking to him.
by reading this book, we need to rethink about the definition of normality and abnormality.Secondly, this book also contains another message; the way of looking at a life.
Towards the end of the book, Bobby finds another person who become invisible like him about three years ago.
Things Not Seen was kind of interesting to read.
So, now everyone thinks he's some missing kid.A bunch of crazy things happen in this book and I really enjoyed it.
However, the thing that was just so weird to me was that Bobby was basically naked the entire time he was invisible.
Kind of made me cringe but there's nothing I can do about that.Bobby's life was a complete mess when he became invisible on accident.
Some things kind of weirded me out in the book but I did enjoy the overall outcome of it all.
Even though many an author could have come up with a story about Bobby causing mischief and having fun with his invisibility the whole story through, the author actually shows that invisibility is a hindrance and not a gift as many people wish to believe.
Yes, Bobby does have some fun with his invisibility, which is completely rationale since the character is only thirteen but the story quickly begins to center on the fact that being invisible is more complicated than it seems.
The characters react like real people would.
I want to write characters that are truly possible and not idealized versions of people.
That's when it happens.It's when I turn on the bathroom light and wipe the fog off the mirror to comb my hair.
It's what I see in the mirror.
Normally, that might be wonderful, but I thought maybe we should atleast know (bobby's) name before we jump into the whole 'I'm invisible' thing.
Bobby's invisible, blah blah blah.
Our Blind girl, Alicia sort of makes the story for me.
I wish there was a little more to their relationship than what we got.
The cause of this mysterious invisibility was ridiculous!
The mystery of invisibility is now solvd.
The three star review has nothing to do with my not enjoying the book.
I enjoyed it immensely.
Primarily, I think that Bobby's voice is very appealing and would be even more so to a reader equal in age to him.
However, I think that the portrayal of Bobby's relationship with his parents was a bit overdone.
I understand that angst is a big part of adolescent life, but his parents were obviously trying very hard and there were very few times that Bobby actually gave them credit.
Overall, a good (at least most of the time) portrayal of adolescents reacting to adversity.
Lexile - 690DRA - 40GRL - TTarget audience - probably grade 6The idea/concept of the book is pretty impressive.
A boy becomes invisible and befriends a blind girl as he deals with his new "condition".
On the surface, this is a pretty fascinating idea.
Aside from the fantasy element of becoming invisible you pretty much a story of a boy who is having trouble connecting with his parents.
I had come up with all kinds of ideas that were much more symbolic.
Warning: Can the boy be invisible if he has clothes on?
You eventually completely forget about it as you are reading.
Well, maybe not completely.
Then Bobby saw the walking stick beside her, she was blind.
It was absolutely perfect, a blind girl, and an invisible boy craving human interaction.
Will Bobby try to be friends with the blind girl?
I was curious as to what caused Bobby's invisibility, but it seemed to go on forever and ever.
When Bobby leaves the house his mom always calls him what seems to be a hundred times to make sure he's okay and where he is suppose to be.
There isn't anything inappropriate throughout the book, but I think it would fall more towards middle school and up category due to comprehension.
The outside reading book I chose to read is the book things not seen by Andrew Clements.I chose to read this book because it look very interseting even the tittle of the book made me want to know more about this story.
While they are trying to figure this stuff out he meets a girl named Alicia who cannot see her self ither but this is becuase she is blind.
Besides that this book was very well written and i would recomend it to all of my good read friends.
I recomend this to everyone and i hope you enjoyed reading my review of the book Things Not Seen by Andrew Clements
At certain points Things Not Seen strays off into typical young adult fiction, but, for the most part the author is able to deal with complex adolescent issues in a unique, mature way.
One of the key themes explored in Things Not Seen is this idea of accepting oneself for who you are, even if you are different from others, and we learn many lessons through Bobby’s invisibility and Alicia’s blindness.
Still, Clements manages to deal with life issues in a unique, refreshing way and uses such a clever plot concept that it was a fun, easy and engaging read.
Bobby is a young boy who becomes invisible one day.
Bobby must fend for himself and “stay out of sight” until his parents can help him find out why he is invisible.
Of course, as any fifteen year old would do, Bobby decides to try out his invisibility.
The parents, Bobby, Alicia, and her parents try to work together to solve Bobby’s invisibility problem.
This Book was a California Young Reader Medal Winner for the year 2005 in the Middle School category.
I think middle school children often feel invisible or wish they were invisible as they go through changes in their lives.
“Things Not Seen” tells about a boy named Bobby Phillips, who wakes up one morning and can’t see himself in the mirror!
He understands he’s invisible…Bobby can’t go to school or meet with any of his friends.
One day he goes to the library, and he meets a blind girl named Alicia.
Alicia doesn’t know he is invisible and that is why Bobby trusts her so much.
Bobby doesn’t know what to do, he has a problem, and he is scared!
I loved this book and I would recommend it to young teenagers who like suspense novels.

Reading this book with my students has been wonderful! It is a very interesting topic and creates wonderful visual images. Many laughs at the awkward situations and the imagination goes wild, often creating giggles! Really fascination discussions and a huge sense of logic created by the possibilities of being invisible. Loved the book when I read it with my own children years ago, and love it again reading it with my students. Somebody needs to write the screen play and create a movie, this would be a fun one to see! Thanks for another wonderful novel Andrew Clements!
This book is amazing. The conflict of the story would never happen in real life, but the way the author shows how the main character struggles, it seems very real. You will connect with the main character, Bobby Phillips as he tells his story. Along the way, he makes an unexpected friend who sees the real him. That's one thing I didn't enjoy about the book - it's too cliche. Besides that one fault, the story is very well written and actually portrays a normal teenager without overdoing it. You should definitely give this book a try.
Not too sure why I put this as a favorite, but I read this in 5th grade. The main character buys an electric blanket and turns invisible and falls in love with a blind girl. This book kind of stuck with me for some reason. I thought it was funny that he had to walk around completely naked while invisible.
"You know how Hemingway writes? He couldn't write about this girl's face. Because he'd say something like, "It was a pretty face." And that wouldn't be enough. This face needs someone like Dickens, or maybe Tolstoy. Someone who'd take a whole page and spend some time on her eyebrows and her cheeks, or maybe notice the shape of her mouth when she's concentrating."
I loved this book I recommend it if you like fictional stories that seem real! This is one of my top ten favorite books! The rest of the series (Things that are #2)(Things hoped for #3)
this was my favorite book when i was a kid. must've read it 30 times. i'll reread it one of these days.
I absolutely adored this book! One of my absolute favorites! :D
AH. I loved this book! Review to come.
Such a good book.
Clements is one of favorite authors, and I'm reminded now because of this book.
"I woke up one morning, and became invisible." A lot of the teenage angst was so very realistic (at the beginning at least).
Befriending Alicia was genius on the side of the author.
My only complaint (other than the author trying to make you ignore the fact that the main character is naked for a good 60% of the book) is that the angst and relationships in general feel a bit disjointed to me.
Even Alicia and Bobby's relationship feels...
I read this in 6th grade-or-so.
Thinking back, there were so many great aspects shown with Bobby and Alicia's thoughts.
If I read it now, I would have loved those aspects.
But as a 6th grader, I didn't notice them as much.As a 6th grader, I wanted to put myself in his shoes.
And the thought of what it would be like, going around naked everywhere - even if invisible - made me really weirded out.
So every cute detail seemed to be washed away a little.
Still, there is a good message within its pages, and it's a very encouraging book.
