https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/314102.Religion_and_the_Decline_of_Magic
6d.‘Witch’ (like ‘chav’ today) is a term flung at the very poor by the slightly less poor; what we are looking at in many witchcraft trials (this book suggests) is a society trying to resolve its ‘conflict between resentment and a sense of obligation’.IT MAKES YOU FEEL HAPPY LIKE AN OLD-TIME MOVIEThe legal system in England was, happily, less willing to accept witch-hunts against defenceless old women than were courts on the continent: indeed one judge in 1712 is said to have responded to some of the more outlandish testimony against one ‘witch’ by remarking cheerfully that there was no law against flying, and promptly dismissing the case.As mechanical science started to show its value, magic lost its cachet – though magical beliefs of some kind have lingered on well into modern times, as the vogue for horoscopes and new-age mumbo-jumbo demonstrates.
He describes this England as "a dynamic and infinitely various society, where social and intellectual change had long been at work and where currents were moving in many different directions."One of the central features of the beliefs with which Thomas is concerned was "a preoccupation with the explanation and relief of human misfortune." This stemmed naturally enough from the insecurity of life under the hazardous conditions of the medieval and early modern world.
Thomas points out that magical thinking was not a universal response to these problems; many people turned to alcohol as an alternative or additional source of comfort.The second section of the book, "The Magic of the Medieval Church" opens with the assertion that "Nearly every primitive religion is regarded by its adherents as a medium for obtaining supernatural power.
Extraordinary. Rightly considered a masterpiece in its field. Packed full to bursting with primary sources that will fascinate and delight and with a thesis that seems pretty solid. Highly recommended." If magic is to be defined as the employment of ineffective techniques to allay anxiety when effective ones are not available, then we must recognise that no society will ever be free from it."
Remembering Nancy Reagan consulting Indian astrologers, Cheri Blair's friend's enthusiasm for crystal therapy or the British Royal Families continued support for Homoeopathy it's hard to feel convinced that the seventeenth century saw a decisive shift in attitudes away from a belief in magic and towards a scientific world view.That minor point aside the book remains an amazing account of something of the intellectual life of seventeenth century England. The description of the role of astrology in the battle for moral and public support during the civil war period was in particular very interesting.
By the time of the Reformation, even though the church did not, as an institution, claim the power to work miracles, it was saddled with a tradition of saints who could, and appeal to them to ward off ill-health was commonplace.
The association of magical powers with church ritual was not ostentatiously promoted by medieval church leaders; in fact, it' often through their writings refuting such claims that we know about them.
" was a ritual set of living, not a set of dogmas." The Protestant theologian insisted on a more personal faith, so it became necessary to invent a theology that explained the threat of plague, natural disasters, and the fear of evil spirits.
Probably every historian of the Reformation (Protestant, Counter-, or Catholic) knows the contents of this book, even if they've never read it.
And it says pretty much what everyone thinks it says, in 800 long and sometimes dull, often sexist, usually racist, and almost always paternalist and condescending language.
Nonetheless, it is a very important and groundbreaking work on the culture of magic (et al.) in the premodern period, accounting for its widespread appeal, as well as its social and even political function.
Well, I'm glad I bought this year when I was in Montreal.
I'm really glad, I did.
Never doubt them!Thomas chronicles in easy to read prose the conflict and change among beliefs in magic and religion during the Tudor and Stuart periods in England.While Thomas believes that the English Reformation had an impact on belief systems, he also looks at the rise of education, newspapers, and science as well.
This is particularly helpful when considering facts about Shakespeare, witches, and people in general.A good read for anyone interested in the Tudors or Stuarts.
The medieval English Church was a great accreted mass of beliefs and rituals and superstitions where Oxford theology existed alongside wonder-working local relics and saints,and where the line between prayer and spell-casting was blurry at best.
Thomas' theme may be the disenchantemnt of the English world--- the growth of a rationalist view of the world...but also the growth of a world where the English Church became less and less in touch with popular fears and hopes, where Anglican ritualism and academic theology separated more and more from popular belief.
الكتاب من ترجمة وتعليق د. قاسم عبده قاسم..#يُنتبه إليه.
In the earlier period, there was a heavy emphasis upon the use of magic and what Thomas calls the “magical” aspects of religious ritual.
And the relatively well-to-do might attribute their misfortunes to an impoverished crone whom, they might suspect, they had inadvertently failed to assist.By the later period, however, the use and belief in such ritual means had much diminished in favour of rational, mechanical, and more strictly practical means, informed – at least in principle - by careful observation, experimentation and by “trial and error”.
In the sixteenth and earlier centuries, plenty of rationality had co-existed with magic and religious ritual.
I finally finished this monster of a book, 800 pages packed full with detailed information on the lives of people of England from the 16th and 17th century and their belief systems.
It is an incredibly thorough book that I expressly recommend to all those interested in anthropology/sociology and of course the history of religion and magic.
While some chapters were more tedious than others (Thomas is heavy on exemples) as a whole it is brilliant and I will take good care of my copy as I intend to go back to it from time to time for historical reference.
I think it is still worth overlooking those details and the great and accessible writing should help you do so.
What was magic actually like in England? There are a lot of things we "know," but are they true? Why did people turn to magic? And, almost more importantly, why did they stop?This is excellent; a long book that I wish were longer!
Thomas looks at the transition point from a medieval world to the more modern version as it relates to religion and magic in England.
It is remarkably detailed and examines the reasons that religion and magic were once almost inseparable, but became antithetical.
That process came from the nature of change in the reform of Christian religion and was manifest in official pronouncements long before there was much effect on the way the people understood either religion or magic.The modern world assumes that there is a fundamental gap between the two.
Thomas examines how that gap developed and how it was manifest in public and private practice.
Keith Thomas’s magisterial volume detailing the transformation in educated and popular beliefs relating to matters natural and supernatural in sixteenth- and seventeenth-century England, is a work that anyone interested in this period should read.
One of the pleasures of this book is that it provides a window into the everyday beliefs and practices of ordinary people, rather than those on the upper rungs of the social order, although they are not completely neglected.
To end on a lighter note, reading this book has, seemingly, and very surprisingly, led me to find an effective remedy for hiccups.
It is also punctuated by contemporary pictures which help the text along.It looks at sixteenth and seventeenth century England with such delightful chapter headings as magic and the medieval church, magical healing,cunning men and popular magic, ancient prophesies and astrological practices.
“the virtuosi who dabbled in magic or alchemy had come to appear increasingly cranky to their scientific colleagues” as the seventeenth century progressed.In addition, as Hilary Mantel says in her introduction “it is a treasure house stuffed from cellar to attic with the quotable and the remarkable.”This book really should be part of everyone’s library, to be opened and savoured from time to time.
A landmark publication that combines religion, sociology, and history with even more esoteric and occult forces.
Thomas' 700-page tome is bursting with information.
Diaries, court minutes, private letters, grimoires and more have been scoured to assemble in one place a cornucopia of instances of "magic", which here includes astrology, witchcraft, spirits, and prophecies.
Thus, the reader can adjust the size of this book by jumping to the next paragraph when any point is sufficiently proved.
The combination of entertainment and enlightenment offered by this book yields certain enjoyment.
The reader simply must surrender to the flood of concrete details.
This is a book one should read.
It contains eons of information about all things related to magic, astrology and folk beliefs in Tudor and Staurt England.
It's awfully long, though, mostly due to the fact that the author doesn't just say something once, in the fifty words strictly necessary, but rather ten times, using 500 words each time.
Grand theories as would befit the TED stage but not the totality of available evidence, books far too thin for their historical narratives spanning millennia, and breathless wonderment at newly revealed truths somehow found by reinterpreting previous research without contributing any new primary data seem to be in vogue.
Note that time frame: it is well-defined, based on exhaustive research of primary documentation, and does not seek to construct a theory for everything.
As the western world lurches towards renewed skepticism of naturalism and reevaluates its epistemology, this work seems as timely and relevant as ever, as good history should.Read more at http://znovels.blogspot.com/2017/08/r...
The answer isn't as clear, but in delving into the topic, Thomas presents the reader with countless examples of how ordinary people interacted with magic and gives glimpses into how it shaped everyday life in a time of great social, economic, and religious upheaval.
This book came on to my radar because I was looking for books about magic in the Middle Ages, and it definitely has an amazing collection of information and anecdotes.
I also personally wish the author had a stronger conclusion, but the last chapter that delved into how beliefs about magic seemed to change before a lot of contemporary theories indicated it "should" was really interesting.
A fascinating detailed review of the magical beliefs of the 16th and 17th Century, their rise, bloom and fall. At times it became a little dense, the barrage of names and examples sometimes felt overdone, but overall the sociological explanations and theory for it's waxing and waning popularity were exceptional.
brilliant, bottomless, strikingly funny in places, intellectually thrilling. although he maybe trusts pamphlets a little too much as sources, and his assertion that witch violence wasn't gender based is dunderheaded.
Fantastic. I thought it was going to be a bit of a slog but it was extremely well researched and written in such a way to keep my interest.
(I was directed here by Hilary Mantel, who presumably used it for books such as the very enjoyable Wolf Hall.) It is very heavily researched and footnoted and compiles an overwhelming quantity of primary-source material, and I'm glad it exists.
A few themes do appear - people turned to the divine to give themselves a sense of agency against a hard life, English witchcraft and wizardry was much less "black magic" and more "neighborhood fortune-teller," and church intellectuals fought to retain their monopoly on the supernatural, but in a way that did not often percolate down to the common folk at the local parish.
A brilliant, in-depth study of religion, magic and belief, mainly focussing on Tudor-Stewart eras. Absolutely fascinating stuff! Don't be put off by the size of the book, lots of footnote references!
If you're looking for a history of magic and you make it a habit to sit around in a floral-print smock rubbing crystals against your genitals, then this is probably not the book for you.
If you're looking for a history of magic as a social phenomenon, the possible reasons for its rise and fall, and, most importantly, its relationship with post-Reformation Anglican/dissident English religion, than this is the shiffizzle for thee!
Yes, there's some discussion of actual traditions and rituals, but this is more a serious take on the role magic and superstition played in English society, mostly lower class society, between the Middle and Modern Ages.
A powerful book and in-depth study of what really comes down to the paradigm shift from faith-systems that are inclusive of the layperson and allow him/her to participate in the spiritual experience to a system (Christian thought) that, while claiming to free the soul, binds the individual to a corporate system of worship under a culture of professional clergy.
Make no mistake though, this is a work of history—and a fine and comprehensive one at that, expertly researched and well-written—and not a tract for or against any system of faith.
It seems that the Catholic Church, although officially opposed to ideas of magic and witchcraft, still fostered them by its rituals and holy days etc.
The author makes a case that witchcraft was largely the work of the very poor attacking local people who had shirked their (catholic backed) charitable obligations.
This was generally a rural condition, where locals needed to care for one another.
Once commercial life dominated society, poor laws replaced these local obligations and helped bring an end to notions of magic, devil worship, etc., although it held on in the countryside for a longer time.
This book is about the decline of such beliefs during this time.
If he could take a look at America in 2013 his belief in this happy narrative might be shaken.
We know much more than the poor Elizabethans yet this irrational beliefs seem to have made a big comeback.
The Elizabethans had the excuse that they didn't know any better.
It is still a fun book to read and a least a good chunk of the population today is more rational than the vast majority of Elizabethans but progress is by no means guaranteed.
Keith Thomas collated this book rather than authored it.Years of collecting snippets of information, filed in draws on scraps of paper under relevant headings became clustered into book form.
Its a cornucopia of factual fascinations that nourish the mind as the wedding buffet fills the belly.
Keith Thomas had produced a treasure trove of knowledge but any academically minded individual would benefit from a more structured discourse in the subject matter.
Reading Religion and the Decline of Magic in parallel to a more orthodox text strikes a measured balance on a subject that is both revealing and intriguing to even the lay historian 's mind.
This book will and should challenge how people view the evolution of the current Western idea of science as well as beliefs in magic.This is a fascinating and detailed account of the changing beliefs regarding magic from 1500 to 1700 in England.
It seems the discoveries of Newton, Copernicus, Kepler, et al.
But it should be remembered that Newton dabbled in alchemy and Copernicus and Kepler were convinced of the truths of astrology.
By 1700, people didn't have any more reason to believe more in "science" than in "magic", but clearly magic had fallen out of fashion by that time.
