https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7933617-destined
Why are they bringing heath back? He's friggin dead. Just let zoey and stark live their life happy without zoeys ho problem >_<
I want to shoot Heath in the face, I <3 STARK!
For the record, I hate this series like I've hated no other.
But I just want to know what happens next...
:/...And after finishing it, I'm like: "Great.
Seems to me this is a massive case of "we're making this up as we go along..."If this was an anime, then I suppose it could work in that contrived way that anime plots and Mary-Sues gel together.
It's a book, a terribly written one at that, and yet, I know I'll be reading the next one whilst cursing the writers for making an addictive plot and the most awful main characters in recent book history.*sigh*
DIE HEATH DIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE!!!ahem - okay Kissa, okay. You're getting closer to the end of the series. Just this one and then 3 more to go.... and Heath is coming back! He's dead! Heath! The guy who I've wanted to hit since book 1! Don't bring him back! And I thought the books were finally starting to move forward. You're going backwards! Define: House of Night: see, Draco Malfoy's quotes: "if you were any slower, you'd be going backwards".
Oh my god is she really gonna bring heath into the mix. gggrrrrr he's dead move on. ( GO TEAM STARK!!) Love thease booksKeep it up girls can't wait till Nov
It would be a disgrace NOT to.) Let me predict what is going to happen in this book: 1) Another useless character dies.
(Like it hadn't already happened five books ago.) 3) All of the characters hook up with someone, even if it really wasn't nessecary.
So while we're still on the topic of Zoey, I'd like to point out that she's still the same stuck-up stupid biotch she was in the last...what was it...eight books?
(Like it hadn't already happened five books ago.): Check (Well, memories of the dead) 3) All of the characters hook up with someone, even if it wasn't really nessecary: Half-Check.
(Especially because of the entire "Those books suck, but I still want to know what happens" thing most of the not-fans have going on.)What's happened till now- Zoey became first fledgling High Priestess, very buddy buddy with Nyx (Goddess of all vampires)- Stevie Ray, BBF of Zoey, is read vamp's High Priestess.
Stark, died, came back as a red vamp, is now Zoey's Guardian and consort.- Zoey's mom's been killed by Neferet as a sacrifice, to create a weapon.
Raphaem, son of Kalona and ex-Raven Mocker turned sort-of-human and boyfriend of Stevie Ray joins them, causes chaos.7.
Death-Lady offers/wants to make a ritual, to see how Zoey's mom died.
Especially when, as you're reading through it, your thought process is something like "Oh dear lord why am I reading this why are they talking like ten year olds why is absolutely nothing happening in the plot and even worse why am I enjoying it?" I seem to think this way when reading every installment in this series, and Destined is no exception.Perhaps the most frustrating thing about this series is the dichotomy between the plot and the characters.
These novels tend to fall into a pattern where the characters talk about what they're going to do for the first three quarters of the book before actually doing it, and this installment is no exception.
The House of Night series is the definition of a guilty pleasure -- something you shouldn't like but do anyway. Let's face it -- the series has been going on for WAAAAAAAY too long. It could've -- and should've -- stopped at four. But it didn't. And some of us, like me, are still here, hanging on and enjoying the ride. For instance, it's obvious, and I mean really obvious, when the authors are inserting other people's works into their stories. For example (on page 63 of Destined):  "Actually, th
Also, the books are edited very poorly: page 14 rolls around, and already Damien's name is spelled wrong.
When TEMPTED rolled around and the Twins and Damien backed away from the forefront, Zoey, Stark, Kalona and Neferet became the main peeps and the immaturity came to an all-time low.
Now, though, those aforementioned backburner characters came back into play and it's all silly and fun.My head is still reeling after that amazing climax.After the addictive disaster that was Awakened, this book proved to be another solid entry in the House of Night series.
Due to this, the book reminds me of the earlier entries in the series, like Betrayed.
whyyyyyyy?
I know that Heath might look sweet and everything but COME ON Zoey already has Stark and they are bound together for life plus they are in love ...
ok now its good to know that in this book not always what is dead stays dead but please Heath was already an issue when he was alive, then he was a problem when he died, clearly nobody wants him back, lmao thats not fair for Stark...
Since the first book Zoey has been having boys issues (with her having more than one boyfriend) first Heath-Erick-Blake, then Erick-Heath-Stark, then Heath-Stark, and finally when she is loyal to ONE boy, Heath has to come back to mess everything up, PLEASE NOOOOO
I'm at a loss for words.
Ok, I'll try to pull myself together enough to make a descent review for this well deserving book.
I LOVE THIS SERIES!
I can't express why, but I feel like if these books are ever insulted, I feel personally offended and like blow up like a bomb lol ;) This series is a great way to escape the all to troubling world and if this books release date dosen't hurry up and get here, there's gonna be trouble ;) can't tell you how much I love it, really.
I don't know what I'd do without these books.
I haven't read this book yet but I can't wait for it to come out! I actually cryed for like 10 minutes because Heath died (I don't usually cry when characters die) and I'm actually glad that Heath may get a second chance and maybe be with Zoey again!

I think you guys are crazy for hating Heath he is so adorable. Plus he clearly loves his Zo. I mean Stark is alright, but Heath never fails to make me smile :D
You, Miss Cast, can not tell people to get serious about editing when you clearly aren't.Also, Zoey once again seems like a dumbarse (which is half the reason I'm so addicted to these books-hit me now), she doesn't even know how to sync an iPhone from the computer...
Zoey goes on for about a page about how awesome True Blood is, about how Sam is a shapeshifter and how cool Charlaine Harris is (she is cool if you want to read trashy and fun, much like reading the HoN series, but for adults), I am not rereading the Sookie Stackhouse novels for review purposes because quite honestly I can't be bothered, they are good, but not that good...So, all in all - another great installment for the HoN in regards to it's pace and oh-so-addictive drama but the writing is as good as always (not very).*Please note the sarcasm
The thing I dislike most about this book is that it should've been combined with the previous book -over seventy percent of this was not only unimportant but simply did not even need to be there at all.
The parts with Lenobia, completely pointless -I gained NOTHING from reading through them.
The whole thing with the Twins is equally pointless unless it's played up in the next book, which, I highly doubt it will be.
Overall, this was a blatant excuse to push out as many books in a series as they can.
Problems I had with this book:1) Too many points of view.2) Way too much drama, but I was indifferent to it all.3) They're talking about "love," but I don't see the spark between any of the romances.The characters in this book are no longer the ones I liked in the earlier books. And of all the guys, I liked Stark the best, but even now, he's some insignificant consort. I really should have stopped reading this series after Book 5.
*Rating* 3.0*Genre* YA Paranormal*Review*I had serious reservations about reading this book and continuing with this series especially with such a horrific main character.
Understandably, Zoe finds out that her own mother was murdered and wants answers.
The answers she gets were pretty much expected.The whole thing with Stark and Kalona?
I'm hoping beyond hope that now that she is around, Zoey will take her head out of her backside and realize they have a perfect opportunity to take out Neferet before she can start an all out war.So, how many more books until the end exactly?
I have never really hated a series this much before.
This series could have ended like 5 books ago and it's still going.
I don't even know when it's going to end and I don't want to find out.
The only reason I got so far in this series is because of Stevie Rae and Rephaim.
Zoey really got on my nerve and I hate how she treated Eric in the past books when she was the one to cheat on him with that teacher.
I have no idea how books like these could be bestsellers when I have read way better books than this that deserve far more attention.
As this series goes on the more disappointed I get with these books. The first five were good but it has gone downhill from there. Hopefully it gets better but I seriously doubt it. The last few books just don't have anything interesting in them. Its all about having sex and drinking blood mostly. It didn't get interesting until the last chapter
Such an amazing ending! I was crying so much!
First with the parts that I felt disappointed with.
Spelling and grammar are a big issue that I seem to be finding within each book.
Unnecessary spacing in between words.It seemed to happen way too often in this book and disrupted the flow of the text.2.
I couldn’t understand why this occurred and felt that it was just awfully confusing.There were some good parts to this book.
Dragon Langford sacrifices his life to save Rephaim which changes things altogether.
Nyx welcomes Dragon in his real name of Bryan Langford with his wife- Anastasia- into her arms.
Kalona forgives his son- Rephaim- and spills secrets on Neferet.
E mi prende il nervoso perchè il finale di questo mi è veramente piaciuto.Sembra che vengano pubblicati per "riempire la serie e falla diventare bella lunga"Se si continua così fino alla fine si potrebbero benissimo unire gli ultimi 5 libri in 1 solo.La scrittura è molto scorrevole e non è pesante da leggere, nonostante il numero di pagine si legge senza fatica in pochissimi giorni.Bisogna però sistemare la parte della trama e del dove vogliono andare a parare.Si sa dal terzo libro (forse, non rirordo con esattezza) che c'è questa benedetta battaglia da fare ma al nono libro ancora sembra ben lontana dall'accadere e i punti chiave lasciati sono pochi.+ Scrittura+ Storia complessiva della serie (che avanza a passo di lumaca)+ Finale- Lunghezza (rapporto azione/pagine)- Trama del singolo libro- Si gira attorno sempre agli stessi 3/4 elementi+- Sviluppo dei personaggi (che continuano a piacermi)_____________Honestly I'm getting bored of this series...
He believed in love a lot more than I do."Deepest.
thing Stark said the ENTIRE book.
I've always been rooting for Heath but Stark was definatly a close second until I read this.
That is NOT was Stark would have said in any of the other books even if he was trying to make Zoey feel better.
Plus I know he's a teenage guy but did he have to be thinking about sex EVERYTIME he was in the book.
Ridiculous.*Deep breathe* I don't know about you..but I feel better now.
I love them:)
i really want to read this book but why does heath have to come back i mean zoey has been through enough stress in her life .Firstly she had to deal with erik the jackass and loren blake slept with her and broke her heart i mean come on leave heath to be dead.
I urge you not to pick it up to begin with — and you read the books back to back, you will see just how these pop culture name-drops do nothing to benefit the story at all, and completely undermine any sense of time relativity.
I wish this series wasn't being milked, because the story up until this point could have been told in probably four books, not nine.If you have read the series and, like me, have that nagging urge to finish it because you started it, I see nothing wrong with skipping this one altogether.
From the little tidbits I've heard, this novel is going to be good.For those whom adore the House of Night series, Destined is sure to rock you again.
For those thirsting for info, I've heard that Zoey's beloved Human Consort Heath Luck will be returning in the form of a vessel, due to Neferet slaying our poor little Jack.
*heartbreak* Nyx offered Heath the ultimate choice; remain in the Otherworld as Good, or return to the world–to Zoey–in the form of Evil?The novel is sure to remind us that true love is not born within just one soul; it can be found in others.
I read the entire series thinking that Awakened would be the last book and I was so happy. This series has dragged on for my entire life. They are just milking it. I will write a real review, after I finish this book.. which I will reluctantly probably buy since I just want to know the ending. Is that so much to ask for? There is only so much Zoey and Stevie Rae I can handle! lol
5.5.2011REPHAIM!!! DON'T MIND ME I'M CRAZYCAN'T WAIT TO READ THIS ^^
i completly diagree with everyone who says "heath ugh".
i think its great that he comes back, and i even love stark but im just saying heath died because he was sooo in love with zoey so why shouldnt he get another chance to be with her.
i love this series and have read and re-read every other book in this series and cant wait for the next one i hope it never ends.a lot of young people read these books because they can relate.
if u dont like the book dont read it end of story, dont trash a book others may love.
