https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40423.Lost_on_Venus
So the story didn't really get going until we meet Skor, the mad scientist and "jong" of Morov and Kormor.Skor is an interesting guy, not just because he imbues the dead with unnatural life and seeks to create wholly synthetic organisms.
Burroughs has finally taken the mad scientist, removed the science from him, and replaced it with more mental illness.The whole business with Skor, from the castle/stronghold of Morov to the city of the dead, Kormor, is the heart of the book, with some truly inventive imagery of the walking dead, the emptiness, and despair.
Carson Napier escapes from his bondage in the room of seven doors and breaks Duare free from the throes of her captor who wants to take advantage of her.
Carson and Duare are then lost on the unexplored areas of Venus, and they're trying to find a way back to her home city.
Carson meets a damsel in a tower in the dead city and they escape into a neighboring city.
This book is highly entertaining, exciting, and filled with adventure.
The new characters and locations are facinating, and the story is much more exciting than the first installment of the Venus series.
Todo lo que esperas en una aventura espacial: acción sin parar, viajes, continuos obstáculos, muchas razas, amores, naves… Pero con una muy mala calidad narrativa, inocentes sucesos y actos muy blandos. Pero gusta.
It’s vintage ERB and better than the first book in the series (Pirates of Venus) and I rated that as three.
I don’t know whether this was merely serendipitous within the context of this story or reflected a maturity on ERB’s part, but it certainly raised the bar for pulp heroines over those seen in previous works.Yes, Lost on Venus follows the typical pulp adventure formula of having the protagonist move from one tight situation to another, one escape based on fortuitous circumstances after another, but it also has a few leisurely paced sections where exploration, innovation, and fascination rule.
Hell yes! This is what the sword & planet genre is about! Lost cities, fanciful science, rayguns, monsters, cannibals, death chambers, romance, flying machines, commies, and zombies! My second dip into Burroughs' Venus series has some points superior to the first book, some inferior, and it's strangely just as surprising. It's not the lyrical planetary romance that the Barsoom books were, in fact it's sometimes guilty of the mechanical qualities of Burroughs' later works. There are familiar
The cliffhanger ending of “Pirates of Venus” is dutifully picked right up here and we are treated to Carson Napier's ordeal in a fiendish torture/execution chamber.
His pursuit and search of his lady love, Duare, takes him through “Flash Gordon” type situations, such as trying to survive in the woods, make rafts, fashion weapons, and encountering mad scientists!
Tarzan could always flip out and kill people with his mad jungle abilities, and John Carter could always be depended on to whip out a sword and “weave a web of steel” and...
I have to admit that after a while, Burroughs' books tend to bleed together, so that it's difficult to remember whether you've read a particular book or not.I know I read at least one of the Carson Napier books, and I THINK it was this one.Burroughs had an odd effect on people in that his fantastic worldbuilding seeped into the general literature long before any dependable descriptions of the places actually began to come out.
So a swampy, steamy Venus is, alas, not even close to the truth.
Hell yes! This is what the sword & planet genre is about! Lost cities, fanciful science, rayguns, monsters, cannibals, death chambers, romance, flying machines, commies, and zombies! My second dip into Burroughs' Venus series has some points superior to the first book, some inferior, and it's strangely just as surprising. It's not the lyrical planetary romance that the Barsoom books were, in fact it's sometimes guilty of the mechanical qualities of Burroughs' later works. There are familiar
The cliffhanger ending of “Pirates of Venus” is dutifully picked right up here and we are treated to Carson Napier's ordeal in a fiendish torture/execution chamber.
His pursuit and search of his lady love, Duare, takes him through “Flash Gordon” type situations, such as trying to survive in the woods, make rafts, fashion weapons, and encountering mad scientists!
Tarzan could always flip out and kill people with his mad jungle abilities, and John Carter could always be depended on to whip out a sword and “weave a web of steel” and...
at the moment, just finishing this work, having now visited Mars, Venus, African Jungle, Moon, the core of the Earth, do not think i will immediately read further iterations of burrough's fantastic worlds.
i have to read some lit crit first, for this genre, this pulp, does fascinate me as many other readers.
beasts to kill, city of dead to escape, romance at a rather simplified level, denied by one Girl- who must be the one from the first Venus book.
this is difficult to read, if you think of it, but then endemic racism, determinist philosophical conception is not interrogated.

A direct sequel to "Pirates of Venus," the first book in this series. I rather didn't like the fact that "Pirates" ended with the hero, Carson Napier, being made prisoner and then we have to pick right up with "Lost." I'd rather see the books stand completely on their own. But it is still a good adventure.
PIRATES OF VENUS was ... okay ... maybe two and a half stars, but LOST ON VENUS is pretty damned good. It's Burroughs, so--yes, the writing is clunky, but its quite inventive ... A great "popcorn" book to read on a lazy, sunny afternoon ...
A quick and fun read as expected. The book clearly has two parts: the escape from the city of Kapdor, and finding temporary refuge in the futuristic city of Havatoo. The zombie element surprised me a bit - I didn't expect it in this book but then again, I knew nothing about the Venus books by ERB.
Not nearly as good as The Pirates Of Venus.
This second Venus novel picks up where the first one (Pirates of Venus) leaves off. ERB at his best.
I enjoyed reading Edgar Rice Burroughs's Lost on Venus. Looking forward to reading the next in the series, Carson of Venus.
Napier acquires immediately another female companion (also a princess named Nalte) in her stead, and in the end, when Duare turns up again and starts acting all mopey and sad, everyone needs to sort out who loves whom etc.Highligts are a Venusan version of Frankenstein, who has populated his whole city with shuffling zombies of his own creation (although ERB does not use the word zombie), and an advanced city-state just across the river that requires all newcomers to take a DNA test to determine whether they are fit to live (those who fail are executed forthwith).
While I didn't enjoy this yarn as much as it's predecessor, Pirates of Venus, it was still a great read.
Plus it ends a lot like a television drama leaving you wondering what becomes of Carson and Duare; ensuring that you read it's sequel Carson of Venus.
P.S. I found it interesting that in the story there is a city of the dead.
Now being the '30's they didn't have this zombie craze like today, so Burroughs didn't call them the 'undead' or 'zombies' he just refers to them as 'the dead'.
The second novel in Edgar Rice Burroughs' Venus series.
Space-faring earthman Carson Napier was separated from his beloved princess Duare at the conclusion of the previous novel.
From the Room of the Seven Doors, down the River of Death to the City of the Dead, where a mad scientist presides over a kingdom of zombies, and the beautiful city of Havatoo, which is a paradise but only if your lineage is pure, Carson and Duare bounce from predicament to predicament.
Will Duare drop her haughty facade and accept Carson's love?
This series benefits by being more humorous than most of Burroughs' work.
I don't often pick up books I've read before because I have too many new books on the shelf.
After reading book 1, I quickly realized that this really wasn't a well written book series, but I did enjoy it.
Picking up where the first novel left off, Carson and Duare are alone in the forests of Venus.
2/3rds of the way through this book, Carson finds a new aspect of Venus life - one where the tech level goes out the roof.
but the tech level shift from one 'place' to another was too much.
I've only previously read the first of his Venus stories, 'Pirates Of Venus', and the second book in the series, 'Lost On Venus', continues where we left off, with our hero Carson Napier looking to rescue his love, Duare.
Along the way we encounter the familiar Edgar Rice Burroughs tropes that appear in his other stories, but as a fan I don't mind one bit.
The book is an enjoyable read, although I do slightly enjoy the Venus stories by Otis A Kline a bit more.
But if you like the adventure stories of Burroughs or just like the good old pulp Sci-fi interplanetary tales then I'd recommend this.
Carson is captured, again by the Thorists, and he and Duare must esacape.
Duare goes missing and he must go find her with his new friend, Nalte.
They escape to Havatoo, a place where science is very very important, like a religion.
He builds an airplane, steals it, and searches for Duare.
He does, and later they must leave Havatoo because Duare is sent to death.This book was really good, and it urged me to read the 3rd book.
I immensely enjoyed and recommend this series to classical science fiction lovers.
Probably my least favourite ERB title to date although still a great deal of fun.
Carson loses his beloved Duare and picks up another female companion Nalte.
Luckily Nalte falls for Carson's new friend Ero Shan before Duare comes back into the picture.
This particular story is more sci-fi based than fantasy - we have an advanced city Havatoo run by 5 castes of scientists that practices eugenics - Carson has to turn McGuyver and build a plane to escape.
I found everyting a tad too convenient to be plausible.
Something always crops up to save the day.
While I'm familiar with Burroughs' Tarzan and 'Mars' series', I'd never read any of the Carson/Venus books.Perhaps this wasn't the right one to begin with as it starts right in the middle of some other action (and I see now that this is book #2 in the series), but it doesn't take much to pick up on the plot and the back story.What surprised me was how easy it was to read.
For whatever reason, I was expecting more flowery prose and plodding story-telling.
Who knew?
Nazi’s, zombies, and utopia (if you have the right genetic qualifications) are all a part of life on Venus.
I really like how ERB uses the stories in the Venus books to explore different sociological concepts, of course Sociology was my major in college.
This book is rather episodic, they bounce from one civilization and adventure to the next, all while trying to figure out where they are and how to get back to Duare’s people.
With no stars for navigation and in uncharted territory their task is not easy, and that leaves lots of open room for “Adventure, Excitement, Romance!”
First and foremost, a rip-roaring action adventure that brings a conclusion to the story begun in Pirates of Venus. There are numerous encounters with fantastic beasts of all descriptions, a necromantic engineer attempting to perfect his skills and a vision of a utopian/dystopian (you, the reader, must decide) society brought about eugenically.Burroughs shows himself once again to be a master of the adventure novel.
The stories of Carson Napier's adventures on Earth's sister planet are essentially ERB engaging in self-parody of the superior Barsoom stories. These stories are not high art, or even good sci-fi/fantasy; but ERB's Venus stories are fairly good yarns with exotic Venusian locales, fantastic beasts, flamboyant damsels, dastardly villains, and cliff-hanging adventures in which the hero gets the girl and the bad guy meets his (or her) just deserts.[See, even I can engage in self-parody - see my John Carter story reviews.]
A fun read, although parts of this book and the one before it kind of hover somewhere between romance and harassment. Although the heroine keeps on telling the hero not to talk to her about his love as it is unwelcome, she is a minor in her society and will be put to death for even talking about it, the hero persists on the basis that her no means yes. In this case, he wins through. This is a series of fun books with plenty of adventure, but I like the next two books better than the first two.
I still remember finding this at a drug store in Gladstone, Michigan in 1964. I had all the other Venus books but this one had eluded me. It picks up right where PIRATES leaves off and delivers more wandering, searching, and exploration. I remember feeling disappointed back then but on rereading the whole series in order recently, it's better than CARSON and ESCAPE.
This is pretty standard ERB. Falls in line with all the John Carter novels and the first in this series. Like those, this one is relatively predictable, but not so much that it isn't enjoyable. With these novels, I tend to ignore the political and/or social commentary, and focus on the story itself. As such, its a decent read.
