https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4446214-the-black-abbot
4 stars because I didnt have that WOW in the end. I mean I kinda got it myself, who the bad man was, two or three chapters before it was revealed. Still, a solid british-style mystery thriller. Wallace pace is rapid, you get quite involved in the story. I have to say, i expected more of a murder mystery, i was reading thinking how is going to be murdered, then i got a bit frustrated, because nobody got murdered. Was more of a thriller thing. Still great and recomforting reading. Cant wait to my next Wallace (ein Schriftsteller für Zwischendurch)
In The Black Abbot, it is also well into the book before you even get a murder because the characters are so much concentrated on getting one up on each other in a treasure-hunt that they hardly find the time to kill although they prefer the slow way of doing somebody in by aspiring to marry them.The main characters are Richard Alford, the “second son” of a noble family, and young Leslie Gine, who is supposed to marry Alford’s elder half-brother (they have different mothers) Harry, the present Earl of Chelford.
According to the records of the Chelford family, the owners of the Fossaway Manor, an enormous treasure in gold lingots had been buried somewhere in the grounds during Queen's Elizabeth time.
The lord of the manor is a mono-maniac; his attorney a passionate gambler who has lost his sister's fortune as well as his own.
Into the maze of cross-purposes and desperateness at the Manor, in these modern days of electric light and motor cars, enters the Black Abbott again, terrifying the people of the estate and the countryside.
Anche per questo giallo ho riscontrato il difetto del "troppo", sebbene giustificato dall'atmosfera gotica. Troppe botole, troppe inferriate, troppi marchingegni, troppi "fantasmi". Avrebbe potuto cavarsela con qualche decina di pagine in meno e l'intreccio non ne avrebbe risentito. Vabbe', ho imparato abbastanza di Wallace e ritorno a Simenon :-)
The book is an interesting mystery with some romantic elements though no character is especially likeable. It was interesting to see how the gold bug infected all the characters and then to watch them work at cross purposes.
Edgar Wallace certainly has a fine mind for thinking up skulduggery and clever ways for people to defraud each other.
People within the manor, i.e. servants, and the rubes in the environs begin to tell tales of seeing, once again, a "black abbot" stalking the grounds.
He is much more interested in finding the gold than in spending time with his finacée Leslie Gine.
Leslie's brother, Arthur Gine, has been handling family finances for quite some time and has managed to embezzle and fritter away not only Lord Chelford's money (or maybe just his mother's money), but Leslie's considerable fortune as well.
I hadn't heard of it before picking up an old edition of it at a thrift store, but I started reading it and ended up finishing it in less than a week (which is saying a lot for me, because it's rare I actually have time to read).
I'd recommend this book to anyone interested in classic old novels, in treasure hunting, in english/gothic architecture, or in a tale of intrigue and adventure (as it can best be described as so).
Excellent Edgar Wallace mystery. Hidden treasure (with admittedly a blatantly obvious clue), a mysterious ghostly monk and lots of intrigue. Not really a crime novel although there is a murder, this is a rip roaring old fashioned thriller. Wallace at his best.
Più che un giallo è una storia avventurosa tra amore, intrighi, sotterfugi e misteri. Su tutto aleggia la figura di un oscuro abate e la leggenda di un favoloso tesoro. I personaggi sono interessanti e ben delineati e la storia è coinvolgente.
The first book I ever read that wasn't a kid's book. Started my addiction to reading.
Un bel giallo, non il classico giallo con assassino e indagini per scoprirlo, ma un giallo con molti colpi di scena riguardo un famoso tesoro medioevale...
This was my first Edgar Wallace book, and I will certainly be looking for more.For some reason as I read this book I kept likening it to radio serials.
As I only read a short few pages every day it really did take on that sort of quality.
Wallace's strengths are apparent in his writing style (the characters are not stupid and are thankfully plain spoken), his pacing (things move quickly, particularly in the last third of the book) and his setting of the scene (very detailed, including a seamless use of flashback chapters).
A história está construída de forma a que o leitor esteja permanentemente interessado na sua evolução, uma vez que ele próprio vai construindo hipóteses, com as pistas que o autor vai deixando cair nas páginas do livro.
Para obter este efeito o autor deixa por vezes de lado a plausibilidade do que conta, mas esta, em rigor, também não faz falta.
E o interesse vai crescendo.
O problema é que o fim não é um clímax, mas um anti-clímax: A história acaba bem de mais e sem qualquer nota de fantasia, mas antes cheia de pragmaticidade.
Este livro surpreendeu pela positiva, nunca tinha lido nada do Edgar Wallace e tenho que dizer que gostei bastante de ler esta livro.Um livro rico em suspense até o fim e sua historia está muito bem construída e cheia de suspense como já referi.
:-)
Excellent mystery; kidnapping, etc.
A.L. Burt, 1926
T GTK 69 Wallace Schwarze Abt
