https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6868.The_Innocent
The mistrust and dislike of allies and comrades in arms is quietly stated but undeniable and there were tongue in cheek descriptions by McEwan of the wonderfully contorted levels of security which purportedly existed so as to preserve the safety and secrecy of the work and yet seemed just to encourage people to seek desperately to outrank and out-secret one another in some sort of Berlin equivalent of Stag rutting.
Leonard Marnham, the hero, begins to enjoy and luxuriate in his new found position not least in the relationship that he forms with a lovely local girl.
McEwan's description of the lengths to which Marnham is prepared to go to safeguard his position is edge of the seat narrative.
My #librarianhusband recommended this book, plus it was one of only two Ian McEwan's I haven't read and I'm having a bit of a completest moment, so I took it down from our shelves.
'It's about spies, I think,' he said.
I think I enjoyed it.'Well, it is about a kind of useless spy / telephone engineer called Leonard - the innocent of the title.
Leonard works on a secret tunnel, that is under the Russian territory in Berlin in 1955.
I told my #librarianhusband about it - the thing that happens - and he said he'd forgotten about it completely.
It may stand out in his oeuvre for being a spy novel (or at least an attempt at one), but it bears all the hallmarks of the McEwan classic: a dark and twisted love story, a sexual encounter with far-reaching consequences, tremendous psychological insight, great descriptive power and a powerful sense of impending doom.
While there is definitely some second-guessing of the characters' identities (Maria, for instance, remains a shady character right until the last few pages), the book doesn't feature any gadgets, spectacular chases or double crosses, or other things we have come to associate with the spy novel.
It’s a post-WWII Berlin spy novel, but it’s mostly about politics – not so much between the Russians and the west, but between Germany, the Americans, and the British.
However, in missing these potholes, his somewhat-satirical novel goes to gore and silliness – not the most interesting place to go, unexpected, but also a bit off-kilter.I have to give McEwan credit for his wonderful ease of writing, but I’m looking forward to Atonement and his other later novels with a feeling he probably got way better than this plot, with more detailed character changes.
When I saw his book the Innocent, set in one of my favorite periods, the mid-Cold War, I just had to try it.
McEwan keeps you guessing as to how things will go wrong, as there are a number of characters through which catastrophe might rear its ugly head.
It would appear that every character is far from it, but that turns out not to be true.Many authors can conjure up a good wistful, stare thoughtfully into the distance novel, but McEwan goes a step further by arguing, with his ending, that life, despite all its horror and our mistakes, is well worth living and there is still time to do what we must.
When you're in love, you do strange things, but they don't seem strange at the time.
Last night we watched Deep End, a 1970 movie starring Jane Asher which explored this theme well.
The main character is a shy 15 year old boy, who becomes obsessed with the lovely Ms Asher.
Well, if you found that intriguing, consider checking out the movie.
And you might also want to read The Innocent, where a similarly naive male character gets involved with another older woman, does a number of seemingly logical things, and ends up in an even more bizarre situation...
Spulciando nella sua bibliografia trovo spy stories, storie d'amore e di formazione, raccolte di racconti...ho scelto questo soprattutto per l'ambientazione.La caduta della Germania nazista ed il ruolo delle due Germanie nella conseguente guerra fredda sono un tema che mi intriga assai, ed un romanzo che si ambienta a Berlino negli anni cinquanta, che tratta di una guerra di spie, per di più scritto da un autore che mi interessa conoscere meglio: non potevo non affrontarlo.Invece, niente.
Non meraviglia che "lettera a Berlino" sia stato un libro di successo, soprattutto per questo.Ma per conoscere la Berlino del Crepuscolo degli Dei, per capire gli anni della Guerra penso che dovrò rivolgermi altrove.
The Innocent is the fifth novel I have read by McEwan in recent years and while it is not quite up at the heady heights of Atonement and The Cement Garden in my opinion, it is a wonderful novel in its own right; incredibly well written, dark, atmospheric, funny in places and tragic in others.
The Innocent is based around the real events of Operation Gold; a joint task force of American and British intelligence in Berlin who dug tunnels to tap into Russian communications.
The protagonist of The Innocent is Leonard, a British operative sent out to Berlin to participate in Operation Gold.
He is the 'innocent' of the story as he gets caught up in a series of events that he soon loses control over.

Like all books by McEwan that I have read, "The Innocent" was perfectly written style-wise *and* had a fascinating plot on top of that.
Reflection on why I haven't read all of McEwan's novels: It's funny, given how much I like him, that I haven't read everything by him (I'm now on my 8th book by him, but there are a couple more that I haven't read).
But I think the reason is that I like him so much that I'm almost afraid to read his very earliest fiction because I'm afraid it will disappoint...
il self control inglese è peggio della Guerra FreddaBerlino metà anni 50la città è divisa in zone di
Hmmm...
Looks like either I had too much expectation from the book or the book indeed was not upto McEwan's standards.
The story seemed to drag a little although it could have been an absolute racer with its setting of spying, espionage and clandestine decryptions.
The story reeked of some inconsequential details, which can advance a story if used in moderation, but the over-usage here only tamed the rhythm.
I also found the central character, Leonard, way too confused, not as much owing to his innocence as to his lack of focus.
It did contain a few good pages but just not enough to save the book.
This is not a thriller or a spy novel, although those are elements of the story. It is, like McEwan's other books, a tightly woven portrait - this time of a young naive Englishman in Berlin in 1955. Sometimes McEwan is just too perfectly contrived - like "Saturday" was - but here I had no idea how everything would turn out. There is tension and menace right from the start, but it is nothing like you would expect, and the ending is entirely appropriate. I couldn't put it down - read it in two nights.
McEwan does the Cold War thriller. An excellent read by one of the best living English language authors. And for the record, I had sufficient testosterone to get through, in one go, the gut-wrenching scene located amidships. It was graphic, but don't let the namby-pamby reviewers telling you they had to set down the book, overcome by revulsion and fear as they were, steer you in the wrong direction. To them I say, there's always Maeve Binchy.
depalma should direct the film version. that terrific fucking final set piece all slowed down and stretched out over 60 pages, all gory and demented... shit yeah! i'd also like to dig up hitchcock's grave and have depalma cockslap him a few times across his pale jowly cheek. the fat bastard deserves it.
3.5, muy bueno. No había leído yo nada de este autor, sabía quién era porque he visto la peli de "Expiación" pero estoy más que seguro, SEGURISIMO, que voy a leer mucho libros de Ian McEwan.
interesanta. acum caut si filmul (am citit ca ecranizarea e chiar reusita) cu Anthony Hopkins, Isabella Rossellini si Campbell Scott.
Tedy až na tu poslední, která se jejich pak jejich životy vleče bez možnosti vrátit se zpět.Upozornění: následující dva odstavce sice nevyzrazuje rozuzlení knihy, ale obecně poodkrývají události, které se stanou.
A je to něco, co prohlubuje depresi z promarněných životů, které mohly (ale nemusely) být prožity úplně jinak.Název románu má v češtině tu výhodu, že odpovídá hned třem významům.
V závěru knihy si pak sám Leonard pohrává s významem nevinný ve smyslu "not guilty".Pokud se vrátím k hlavnímu důvodu, proč jsem knihu začal číst, tak vězte, že se o životě v Berlíně padesátých let minulého století dozvíte mnoho drobných střípků.
Po dočtení jsem si říkal, že je to skvělá kniha, ale asi se k ní již nebudu chtít vrátit.
As the main character in the novel visits Berlin in two different eras, my own experience of Berlin also spans decades, as this was my first trip since I first visited the city over 25 years ago.The novel is partly centred round a real episode in 1955, involving a collaboration between MI6 and CIA in which they tapped Russian communications lines.
As in other of McEwan’s novels, there are one or two incidents where choices lead the characters in directions which ultimately change their lives, only they don’t know it until later.
Общото във всички книги на Иън Макюън е въпросът за непоносимата тежест на отговорността за собствените решения, стоварилите се като съдба обстоятелства – резултат от тези избори и човешката слабост да погледнеш истината в очите когато е толкова уютно да се сгушиш във въпроса „Защо на мен ми се случва това?
Това е усещането с този автор.И тук, както в останалите му романи, Макюън е предал сетивно атмосферата на времето, в което се разгръща историята, а именно Берлин от 1955-та, Берлин на съюзническите зони, предвестници на Стената с очерталите се вече противоречия не само по линия „изток-запад“, но и между англичани и американци.
Сексуално-любовна драма на фона на Студената война, като историята сама по себе си не беше лоша, но от този автор очаквам много, много повече.
Looking back though, it caused the feeling of being included in it and experiencing the sheer terror that Leonard and Maria were going through during the last half of the story.The aftermath of their gruesome act also led to one of the most interesting, and probably my favourite, chapter of the whole book.
It also added a somewhat warm ending to an otherwise quite depressing and sometimes gut-wrenching story, which was much appreciated.In conclusion, this book suffered from a weak first half, which gave way to many horrid scenes, which ended up feeling pushed too close together in proximity.
The Innocent by Ian McEwan is a psychological thriller set in West Berlin, 1954, during the cold war.
Leonard Marnham, a 25-year-old British post office technician, was employed by the Americans on a joint British-American surveillance project to install signals in the tunnel they were building to tap the phone lines of the Soviet High Command.
Leonard was well brought up and shy but quickly lost both his physical and political innocence.
Then entered Otto, Maria’s drunken ex-husband, the McEwan malevolent intruder, and that was when the story shifted to an intense, high gear.
This novel is exceptional.It is rare that a sentimental novel can make a contemporary reader feel covetous of the experience he has had with it, but The Innocent does just that.As a reader, one knows what McEwan is doing and what he is going to do.
When he wishes to work a reader over, he puts the novel deep in the modern past, makes his transitions abrupt and then finishes the story with reminiscences from a present-day character.In this way, The Innocent is very similar to the formula McEwan followed in Atonement.
"O Inocente" só me conseguiu prender mais às suas páginas a partir do momento em que a personagem de Maria entra na história e, depois mais adiante, já depois de ter lido mais de metade da obra, quando o passado desta e o regresso do seu ex-marido irá "mexer" com a vida de Leonard e o próprio desfecho.
Para além de não ter apreciado o modo como a história termina, senti que lhe faltou qualquer coisa...
Aliás, o mais próximo que estive disso foi quando Leonard e Maria decidem pôr termo, a sério, às aparições do ex-marido desta.
Come una vecchia pubblicità di una grappa, un romanzo dal cuore molto bello, ma con una testa ed una coda non del tutto convincenti.
All’inizio, la puntigliosa descrizione del progetto di spionaggio antisovietico risulta in molti tratti macchinosa: poi Leonard incontra Maria ed iniziano duecento pagine travolgenti come la storia d’amore tra i due personaggi.
L’irrompere della tragedia nel momento della ‘regolarizzazione’ – il fidanzamento ufficiale – rimescola tutte le carte e conduce la storia ad un epilogo non del tutto imprevedibile, ambientato all’aeroporto come quello di ‘Casablanca’.
First half is a Cold War thriller written by a more reserved John le Carre, second half is a black comedy of the most high-macabre, queasily tense variety.
The Innocent doesn't quite reach the (ridiculously high) bar set by Amsterdam, and part of me misses the sustained sensitivity of books like Saturday (what?
I feel such pulsing affection towards McEwan and all his wonderful books, reading an early work is never not pure pleasure, like looking through the baby pictures of a dear friend you've only known as an adult.
Really bloody, intense, awesome baby pictures.
Caro S.gr McEwan, devo ammettere che dopo un inizio difficoltoso, ho adorato il suo libro in cui ha dimostrato anche questa volta il suo grande talento.Ho amato tutto di questo libro.
Ho amato l'ambientazione Berlinese, una Berlino distrutta a 10 anni dalla Seconda Guerra Mondiale,una Berlino che cerca di ricostruirsi dopo le macerie e ritrovare la sua anima di città moderna e cosmopolita.
Una spy story condita da una storia di amore che coinvolge ed emoziona.Grazie S.gr McEWan, per la sua capacità di raccontare, di regalare emozioni, in attesa di una nuova avventura da vivere.
All’inizio sembra di entrare dentro a un romanzo di genere (spie, servizi segreti) con parallela storia d’amore.La vicenda è a suo modo semplice con pochi elementi cruciali cuciti assieme dalla prosa sempre chirurgica (letteralmente) e facile da seguire (per quanto qui un po’ sotto le righe) di McEwan.Però molto poco coinvolgente, personaggi piatti e ingenui, qualche punto inverosimile.E non aggiunge troppo di nuovo all’idea che abbiamo della Berlino anni ’50.Fosse l’opera di uno sconosciuto passerebbe mediamente inosservata. Autore altalenante. [58/100]
Far less than my expectations, Schade ! nevertheless it's acceptable as a love story that has nothing to do deeply with the beginning of the cold war or the kind of life in Berlin just after the war. therefrom I classify it as a love story , even though the central theme is on spy. This is because I've been and will be obsessed with knowing more about the nature of the life Berliners were living during that period of time, and thought this novel would introduce something new but, unfortunately, did not satisfy what I want!
