https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182425.False_Memory
I really enjoyed False Memory, perhaps not as much as some of Koontz' more traditional works of fiction, though. It's a powerful, eerie and deeply psychological novel in nature, sure to impress many horror fans, but its characters were very conventional and aside from a few great page-turning moments, I didn't really think this book was overly memorable and I don't really think I'd re-read it. I did love Koontz' descriptive prose and dialogue, though. He's got a gift for capturing the beauty of the seemingly mundane and making it surreal.
Since the title of the book is False Memory and it deals with people suffering from various phobias it's quite obvious what's going on - if you take into account that it's a Koontz book, who despises the academia and Hollywood.
The antagonist is revealed in approximately 1/4 of the book, and then the suspense dies.So what is left in False Memory ?
And that's the worst thing that plagues almost all of his books - the reader is unable to immerse himself in the narrative, because he;s always aware of Koontz's infulence over the story.
But I can's say that I liked False Memory either; it's just a book that left me indifferent.
Dean Koontz writes two kinds of books, good books and brilliant books, and this was one of the latter. It was gripping from beginning to end, all 750 pages of it, and I found it unputdownable. I really enjoyed the fact that the two main characters were genuinely strong, intelligent people who played the baddy at his own game and did not constantly do stupid things. And I loved that after all the tension and stress Koontz still allowed the reader a satisfactory and happy ending. I read to be entertained and this book for me was pure entertainment.
And now her husband too!Koontz delves into phobias and how they might affect a person.
The character's journeys are intense and seemingly real.
Koontz couldn't write himself out of a paper bag.
As good as the character's trials are written, I was expecting something better.
To be honest I didn't finish the book because the ending was so random, so out of left field, so pulled out of his butt that I couldn't finish it (I think I was short 30 pages.
I was listening to it on tape so I can't be sure).Three books by Koontz showed me that it is a disturbing trend in his writing.
Even where it starts to, it still snaps back all too frequently to the two main protagonists - two people that you *long* for the bad guy to ruin, so vacuous and irritating they are - and you end up wanting to throw the bloody thing at the wall, desperately wanting it to GET TO THE F**KING POINT.The second half/last quarter has more pace, to be fair, but the characterisation is so poor that the only entertainment value comes from the truly psychopathic antagonist.
At one point, about the middle of the book, one of Koontz's characters claims that repressed memories basically don't exist, that they are all invented through iatrogenic suggestion.
Dean Koontz is one of my favorite authors because his books are always so incredibly suspenseful.
To add to the chaos, Martie has a friend with agoraphobia (scared of going outside) who she often takes to therapy sessions.
Dusty takes Martie to the same therapist as her agoraphobic friend, in which he discovers that he HIMSELF has an even more bizarre condition than Martie.
I don't want to give away anymore, but I highly suggest this book to anyone who loves suspense.
However, I do not recommend this book to those who don't want to have nightmares about going crazy.
Awesome!This is a "psychological thriller" to the max. It is about a psychiatrist that uses a combo drug/hypnosis/haiku to get into his subjects minds and control them. He can implant false memories, intense mental illnesses, and tell them to do horrible things. He has absolute complete control over his victims by just saying a word. I have to say that I have been a Koontz fan for a very long time, but this truly was the best book that I have ever read by him. Absolutely, extremely intense. What an awesome story...truly amazing and absolutely terrifying. I loved it!!
It's a terribly long book and from the very beginning you already know what's going to happen and since the pool of suspects able to come up with such an elaborate scheme is so small ( really, it's just one person), there's no real suspense and that's saying a lot considering that the book is supposed to be about fear and extremely debilitating phobias.
But as much as I'm willing to suspend disbelief when I read any book, I know that the events described by Koontz would never happen in real life, they are too extreme.
Unless you're a hard core Koontz fan, I would stay away from this book.
Fear that is implanted into the subconscious mind by an unscrupulous Pshycologist/Doctor who is protected by a government agency due to his research in behavior control.In exchange for implanting thoughts and unquestioned obedience in chosen persons, the Doctor is allowed to play his "games".
The Doctor enjoys implanting a small fear, increasing it until it is a full blown phobia, and once he is done "playing" he will either have the person commit suicide or they will commit a major crime resulting in their death.
It is their love and trust for one another that assists in their quest to break away from the fear and find answers.
Slow to get going, but once it does....: This is the first DK novel that I have read.
However, I made a pact with myself to read all the books on my shelves before I bought any new ones and this one was one of them.
The first few chapters were slow to get going and I was daunted at the prospect of the next 1,000 pages - I am cursed with the afflication that once I start a book, I must finish it regardless!
Nevertheless, my peseverence has paid off and I am happy to say that I have not read a more riveting novel in a while.
Many years ago I met a person with an eidetic memory. I'm still intrigued. When I first read False Memory, I was thrilled with a character possessing an eidetic memory, particularly as it played such an intricate role in this psychological thriller.Because I'm ridiculously and embarrassingly behind on writing book reviews, I've relegated myself to re-reads only, until I catch up. This was a fabulous choice---it was as compelling and hard to put down this time around too.
Let me preface this by saying that I used to read quite a few Dean Koontz books when I was a kid.
I was also curious to see how how his writing had held up since I was a child.
I don't remember Koontz's books as being particularly well written, but they were entertaining and involving as far as plot went.
Well, Koontz is a fairly awful writer.
The writing is clunky and slack.
Koontz stretches out the book to an interminable 751 pages.
I'm going to cleanse my palate with something that's better written.
Its not fair! Some people were just born to write...This book made me experience so many emotions i thought i was going to puke. What a scary thought to be trapped inside yourself and not be in control of the decisions you make.
Part of what keeps me reading is to find out which it will be: logic or supernatural.A portion of my disappointment with this novel was he reveals that mystery so early in the book.
Also, I kept waiting for the twist, the science-gone-bad or supernatural-world-collision...and it never happened.
What you figure out in the first half of the book is all you get.
If you have problems with children being tortured and killed, you should avoid this book.Of course, a good Koontz novel is like a great novel from just about any other author, and I didn't want to put it down.
Whoa! I'll start by saying the bad guy is a super-sociopath. The book is about what it says in the title: false memory. The main characters have lapses in their memory and start coming down with weird psychoses. The plot and events that happen in the book are a little frustrating, that's probably why it takes some people months to years to read it. But when you're at the middle to the end of the book, you can't put it down because you so badly want to see the bad guy go down.
I'm Listening(on audiobook).False Memory is real thriller. The plot is entertaining. The characters are colorful. I'm enjoying it.2015 Update:This was my fourth time reading False Memory, and I believe the most enjoyable read since my initial experience. This is one of Dean Koontz's best books, also one of his lengthier novels.
This was my first Dean Koontz, and even though it is older, it really didn't suffer from aging (unlike most of us...ha!) This is a loooooong novel, but it never seemed tedious and read faster than I expected.
A brilliantly evil doctor who engages in mind control and is a master of haiku, not to mention some incredibly funny, brilliant thoughts at times, kept me turning pages, captivated.
I can see why the reviews are all over the map for this book, as it is certainly not for everyone, but I thought it was brilliant -- and incredibly twisted.
A brilliant book for fast paced action, suspense, amazing plot twists, lovable characters and amazing villains.
It has the most plot twists of any book that I can remember.
It's the kind of book that has you screaming 'for the love of god, don't open that door!' and praying they get out alive when they do.
there is no danger to the characters from opening doors :P) This book also raises anger as well as sorrow and hope.
It was also interesting to learn about the different phobias encountered in this book.Best Points:+ Evokes a lot of emotion+ Amazing plot twists+ Amuzing charactersWorst Points:- None :)
Another masterpiece by Koontz with his usual mix (that being laughter, sorrow, shock and countless hour of sleep lost due to being engaged in the book).
As a fan of larger books I did not mind the length at all, although I’m sure that other readers will easily find themselves wrapped up in the storyline questioning how they managed to get through so many pages so quickly.
This book also contains the masses of knowledge that you would expect to find with almost any Koontz book – with the area of specialities being phobias.
I’m sure by the end of it your phobia knowledge will be greatly enhanced!
As a Dean Koontz fans I must say that this is one of his best books.
For beginners I suggest to read his books "Intensity" or "The Servants of Twilight" (the latter is also a movie)because they are easier.It was easy to read and so exciting that I could not put it down.
It is like the reader intertwines with the story, enters the narrative and experince what happens from front row.
The phobias is depict with such a depth that the story is perceived frightening realistic.
Halfway into the book you get to know who the bad guy is, but the author manages to keep the creeping feeling throughout the story.
Koontz actually through this novel, has given us a glimpse of a very morbid side of the human brain which can stoop to the most gross business possible, just to feel POWERFUL or in control……the deep dark desire inherent in all of us to control & manipulate is seen in ‘False Memory’ & …….it is seriously frightening.
As long as men are power hungry & human life is treated like a mere commodity, ‘False Memory’ can take place over & over again, across borders……….into the very depths of the human brain.The story puts the reader on target at the very beginning itself in the usual Dean Koontz way, & an ardent Dean Koontz reader will know, the action always begins in the first chapter itself.
Pretty great read, but about 100 pages too long. The first 200-some-odd pages were some of the most riveting I have ever read and it maintained a good pace right until the mid-400s where it just slowed way down for about 80 pages. It never got boring, exactly, but it got really redundant, repeating a lot of points needlessly. Then it picked up again until about 20ish pages in the late 600s/ early 700s, then finished well.Intriguing plot, characters I really cared about, all that good stuff! Do recommend.
I mean, yeah; this is Dean Koontz we're talking about here, so of course there are going to be dogs in the story.
They're just there because Dean Koontz is obsessed with dogs, period.
If I could delete the sentences about dogs out of this book, it would be pretty close to perfect.Otherwise--great story.
I get the feeling that Roy and Brian must've been based after a real-life couple that Dean Koontz may have met and liked enough to immortalize in fiction, because they aren't the type of characters he would create from thin air.
The only thing out of the ordinary in their lives is Martie's friend Susan, who is an agoraphobic and Dusty's brother-in-law Skeet, who is a drug addict.
It starts off with going to Susan's therapy session and Dusty at his job.
Dusty and Martie are losing their time, minds, and trust in everything they once knew.
I don't like how it takes awhile to really get the story going.
Other than that, I like the novel a lot.
I also like how every little thing has a biggger purpose in the story and is rementioned countless times.
I've read a few of his more recent books and enjoyed them, but this was too long, the baddie was revealed far too early, and having so much of the story told from his point of view made for uncomfortable reading.
There were lots of elements that seem to be common to most of his books - an every-man hero perfect husband, thrown into an impossible situation, nasty sadistic violence, a golden retriever...
but unlike many of his books there was no supernatural element.
If it had been 300 pages long instead of 750 I probably would've rated it much higher.
I think I was in high school at the time and it made me feel very smart to read a story with so much psychological jargon...not only could I read it but i could actually understand it, too!
That's what I like about Koontz: he dumbs everything down for you enough that you can follow the storyline but not so much that you feel like a kindergartener reading your first chapter book.
When I was older I re-read the book because I'd accidentally bought it a second time.
I think that's how most of his books are: gripping the first read-through but definitely not meant to be re-read.
I really love the way DK writes.
The intensity is something I strive to capture in my own writing.
This book is fantastic.
The premise great, the characters immediate and engaging, but I wondered if the actual killer came in too soon (about a quarter of the way in).
I think I wanted to be hung up until the end but wasn't.
Koontz is one of the only writers that I go back to again and again and look closely at the writing style and the way each plot evolves and is concluded.
Dean Koontz has long been one of my favorite writers, but this book made me truly grateful that I don't have to live with a mind like his!
This book was so amazingly written and yet so deeply disturbing that it almost left me with a sick feeling.
It's been a while since I read this book, and while I don't remember a lot of the specifics, I do remember how I felt at the beginning, middle, and end.
It's definitely a book worth reading, but be prepared for the truly disturbing nature of the story!
It's been a long time since I read anything by Koontz but I saw this one on a list somewhere and it looked interesting. It's about mind control, and as I remember from his books in the past, it's about an almost untouchable mad man. I thought it would be a quick read but I found it rather burdensome in its descriptions and rantings. There were some fascinating aspects, which is why it gets 3*. I felt as if I was reading something very intelligent but it didn't inspire me to pick up more Koontz any time soon.
The false half of the book was more coherent and, in general, better written than the latter half. I enjoyed the role of the dog (a very realistic and incidental one) in solving this complex and evil crime. The villain is a particularly despicable and creepy poser of good and I found very disturbing.
