https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/161910.Suddenly_You
Why have I waited so long to read this book?Spinster novelist Amanda Briars doesn't want to celebrate her 30th birthday as a virgin, so she decides to hire the services of Mrs. Gemma Bradshaw, a well-established madam (whom anyone who's read Worth Any Price should recognize), to find her a suitable man to take care of her, er, "problem".
During a conversation with Mrs. Bradshaw - no, he isn't one of her customers; he's just the publisher of her book "The Sins of Madam B" - he mentions that he's just bought Ms. Briars' 1st (unpublished) novel "An Unfinished Lady" and his intention of becoming acquainted with her so they could work together and "polish" the novel for publication.
Y Jack Devlin, el protagonista de esta historia, no es una excepción.
No solo es un sinvergüenza fuerte y guapo, sino que es un feminista avant la lettre, que trata a su mujer como una igual y se pasa por el forro de la levita las convenciones sociales, la diferencia de edad y lo que se le ponga por delante para conseguir a su amada Amanda.
Not quite as original as the author’s other books I’ve read, but still good.
I hate it when the hero chooses not to fight for the heroine just because he thinks he doesn’t deserve her.
Although many parts of the story were good, I wanted something else.
I felt like I expected a lot but got less in return.I’m not quite sure whether to rate this one 2 or 3 stars, but since I never once felt like putting it aside and started reading something else, I think I’m going with 3 stars.Please note this is only my personal opinion.
I liked it. 3.75 stars ... “How do I look?" Amanda asked.Jack shook his head ruefully as he glanced at her. No one could mistake the remaining flush on her cheeks, or the soft sparkle of her eyes, or her lusciously swollen mouth, for anything other than the results of physical passion. "Like you've been ravished," he said flatly.She astonished him by smiling. "Hurry, please. I want to go inside my house and consult a looking glass. I've always wanted to know what a ravished woman looks like.”
I liked it.
3.75 stars ...
“How do I look?" Amanda asked.Jack shook his head ruefully as he glanced at her.
No one could mistake the remaining flush on her cheeks, or the soft sparkle of her eyes, or her lusciously swollen mouth, for anything other than the results of physical passion.
"Like you've been ravished," he said flatly.She astonished him by smiling.
"Hurry, please.
I want to go inside my house and consult a looking glass.
I've always wanted to know what a ravished woman looks like.” 
“Good,” he said softly.
“Set the world afire.
Just let me hand you the matches.”
Lately, I've been let down too many times by the romance genre so I chose a tried and loved author to pick up my dragging rating.
*yes, I'm very proud of myself for that play with the name of hero *Enter Jack, a half irish hunk with a delectable accent.And I'm like;GO AMANDA!!!I loved the characters, enjoyed their banter and the build up of their relationship.
The background was a bit different than most historical romances, since these were upper-middle class characters.
I don't know if this would be a 5 stars reading experience any other time but fuck that.
I'm going to spoil the hell out of him, and send him to the best schools, and when he comes back from his grand tour, he's going to run Devlin's for me.""What if we have a girl?""Then she'll run it for me," came his prompt reply."Silly man, a woman could never do such a thing."My daughter could," he informed her.At least it was a pretty explosion...In this book, we have Amanda, a spinster at the age of 30 who is also a pretty popular writer.
You just looked like a filthy whore.
I'll just go die of embarrassment now.Jack Devlin is sexier than sin.
Jack and Amanda are wonderful characters, in and of themselves, but bring them together and you have magic!I love the way Lisa Kleypas defines and develops her characters, making them larger than life but at the same time keeping them grounded in reality.
I find that I become easily invested them, wanting them to have joy, passion and love, and this tells me that she writes people, not just characters.
And her storylines are believable - situations we can, in some way relate to, if not directly than because she knows how to reach us through our shared humanness.I think my favorite thing about Jack and Amada is their independence, each one believing that they could never marry because that would mean giving up control to another person.
And instead of just ending when they would have both organically realized that they loved each other, the plot turned into a lot of unnecessary drama that didn't actually add anything to the story.
(hide spoiler)]Then again, I'm the asshole who skims the love scenes in books and fast forwards through them in movies.
So, maybe I'm not the best person to judge the 'romance level' for this sort of thing.Regardless, this was still a (mostly) adorable book, and pretty much what I've come to expect from this author.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Amanda Briars is unmarried and about to turn 30-years old.
Jack Devlin is a successful publisher, known for printing some racy material.
He’s got a bit of a reputation but that’s not stopping him from trying to sign on Amanda...as a client and a lover.
I chose this book because I liked the idea of an older, independent woman in 1800s England.
It turned out to be a delightful story as Amanda was smart and talented, Jack an extremely interesting and complicated man.
I hated when the story ended as I liked being in Amanda and Jack’s world.
"Irresistible", mi debut con Lisa Kleypas, ¡fue ESPECTACULAR! No me explico por qué tardé tanto en leer a esta autora. ❤️
Reto #39 PopSugar 2018: Un libro que involucre una librería o biblioteca Me gustó, pero la verdad tenía más expectativas. A pesar de los buenos comentarios que tiene este libro en GR y de que Lisa Kleypas es mi autora favorita en romántica, me quedé con un regustillo de desencanto.Como siempre, sus personajes son magníficos, pero sentí este libro tan corto que no alcancé a disfrutarlos como me hubiera gustado. Todo pasó tan rápido que no me alcanzaron a calar.En todo caso, la lectura se disfrut
Reto #39 PopSugar 2018: Un libro que involucre una librería o biblioteca
Me gustó, pero la verdad tenía más expectativas.
A pesar de los buenos comentarios que tiene este libro en GR y de que Lisa Kleypas es mi autora favorita en romántica, me quedé con un regustillo de desencanto.Como siempre, sus personajes son magníficos, pero sentí este libro tan corto que no alcancé a disfrutarlos como me hubiera gustado.

Seguramente ahora le bajaría una estrella ya que al final creo que el tema "hot" se alarga innecesariamente y Lisa Kleypas soluciona temas mediante el sexo que hubiera preferido que fueran conversaciones más desarrolladas.Pese a esto, destaco los siguientes temas:Ella destaca por su carácter moderno, su físico tan opuesto a la época pero, ante todo, por su decisión de contratar un gigoló.
Creo que tan solo (con ese prólogo) ya merece la pena leerloÉl es de esos protagonistas que me gustan tanto y con los que, según mi opinión, Lisa Kleypas acierta tanto.
3.5 starsThis was another atypical historical romance featuring a 30 year old heroine, and let me tell you I am all for more of this - it helps me feel not so old myself lol!
The heroine in this book is feeling her years too, only she decides to celebrate her birthday by hiring a male prostitute to rid herself of her pesky virginity.
Jack ends up being quite a bit more then she ordered and I enjoyed their relationship.
The ending was very surprising for a story that was pretty lighthearted up until that point.
*** 4.5 A chuísle mo chroí.. STARS ***   PopSugar 2018 39. Un libro que involucre una librería o biblioteca Este libro fue mi debut con Lisa Kleypas, el que hizo que me enganchara con sus libros, la primera vez que lo leí me gustó mucho y esta segunda caso raro pero me gustó más que la primera ME ENCANTÓ!! Y por eso le voy a subir una estrella.Es de los libros más sexys que he leído en romántica histórica, con unos personajes con una gran personalidad, contiene diálogos divertidos e ingeniosos,
Al mero día se arrepiente y está decidida a decírselo al hombre al que acude a la cita que para su sorpresa resulta ser sexy como el infierno, cautivador y rechaza sus negativas regalándole una noche de placer pero sin que ella pierda su virginidad por que el está seguro que se volverán a ver.Y por supuesto que se vuelven a ver, porque él no resulta ser lo que ella pensaba, sino que es uno de los editores más famosos, exitosos y sin escrúpulos de toda Inglaterra, dueño de una editorial y librería y quiere trabajar con ella.Amanda es una protagonista, independiente, fuerte, de gran intelecto, es apasionada y divertida, una mujer muy talentosa que a pesar de estar sola ha salido adelante, es de esas mujeres adelantadas a su época, como toda mujer es insegura de sus físico.
4,5 #RetoIntimo3maravillosa delicia, lo he disfrutado todavía más que la primera vez que lo leí. Divino Jack Devlin, DIVINOme ha encantado
1° del reto íntimo.WOW, qué maravillas escribe la Kleypas! A pesar de ser muy diferente a otras de las novelas que he leído de ella, ésta me ha parecido más erótica, más sexual y no me ha decepcionado en absoluto.Totalmente rendida a Jack Devlin😍😍😍🔥🔥🔥
Bravo por crear a una protagonista que, a pesar de la época en la que se desarrolla la trama, trata de tú a tú al género masculino (tan machista en dicha época). Por poner una pega, diría que hay demasiado sexo.
I've given this an A- for both narration and content at AudioGals, so that's 4.5 stars founded up.I was really pleased to see that some of Lisa Kleypas’ older, previously un-recorded/out of print titles are making their way into audio format, and even moreso when Suddenly You popped up at Audible with Beverley A.
(I’m not so pleased that Tantor’s next foray into Ms. Kleypas’ backlist, Someone to Watch Over Me, uses one of the worst narrators I’ve ever heard, but that’s another story!)Suddenly You was originally published in 2001, and it’s easy to understand why it’s such a firm favourite with many.
;)So, when the almost 30 and a confirmed, on the shelf, ‘dried out’ spinster like Amanda goes to an establishment of questionable reputation and asks for a male prostitute to relieve her of her virginity, I wasn’t really surprised; I was feeling the prickly sensation of excitement all over me.
I absolutely loved the way these two talked and Amanda’s thought that she might be making the mistake of her life!Birthday of Amanda: Nobody’s home; one cook, maid and footman is out for a day off.
‘Jack’ even knows she’s a published author, read her books and seems like very interested in them!
Historia original por cómo se inicia y por las profesiones de los protagonistas, que no son vistas en género histórico normalmente.Ambos protagonistas son de mente ágil, despierta y grandes conversadores. La química estalla muy pronto para luego dosificárnosla de forma que entendamos el punto de vista de Amanda y sus prejuicios contra Jack, aunque veamos como se va formando ese amor. Bravo por estos protagonistas adelantados a su tiempo y que luchan por la igualdad.Maravilloso Jack y maravillosa Amanda.No he podido empezar mejor mi incursión en el mundo de Lisa Kleypas.
On the one side you’ve got that 4.5 read with a sexier than sexy alpha, Jack Devlin, who does some wickedly scorching sex scenes unlike anything I’ve ever seen in traditional historical romance (we’re talking glimpses of Emma Holly-like writing here!) but on the other side you’ve got a bit of slow start where you’re wondering when the ol’ party is ever going to get started!
Maybe 4.5 stars is better because the couple meet in a very “unique” way and then those steamy scenes will have you going bug-eyed and checking out the genre on the spine to see if you’re not reading erotica instead of standard historical romance fare!Kleypas does a great job portraying spinster Amanda Briars and the sexy rogue who’s after her Jack Devlin.
Eh... I had big hopes and dreams for this one because everyone else seems to love it but it felt really cheesy and forced to me. Virgin... blah blah doesn't know she is pretty... blah blah. It just didn't bring anything to the table for me personally.I also wasn't in the mood for this type of book when I read it so maybe that was part of the problem. I had really high expectations... unrealistically high I think. I'm going to try another Lisa Kleypas book because everyone raves about her. Maybe a contemporary one would do the trick?
This book started off with a sensual level that was never totally far from the main story plot, although at times it would have gotten on my nerves but it only brought out more from the characters.
Amanda showed Jack there was more to life then being just single without someone to love you for you.
Although both were stubborn to the point I wanted to smack them both over the head, both helped, supported and love one another to move past they’re fears.
This book was pretty hot from the first chapter but it didn’t take away from the main plot or feel and pace of the story.
3.5Suddenly You is pretty much all in the blurb. That doesn't take away anything from the story though. Amanda Briars and Jack Devlin are wonderful together. The story has a bittersweet beginning and right from the moment you meet Amanda you want her to have all the happiness she could get. No, she isn't some whiny woman trying to catch a husband. She has made a decision for her thirtieth birthday and she isn't sorry.  'There were perhaps twenty thousand nights in a woman’s lifetime. For at leas
Amanda Briars and Jack Devlin are wonderful together.
The story has a bittersweet beginning and right from the moment you meet Amanda you want her to have all the happiness she could get.
No, she isn't some whiny woman trying to catch a husband.
She has made a decision for her thirtieth birthday and she isn't sorry.
For at least one of them, she did not want to be alone.'
Next, the way she acts and speaks is refreshing not only to Devlin but to the reader as well.
I’ve never heard that the sexual act requires any particular intelligence.
“Set the world afire. Just let me hand you the matches.”This would have been the most female empowerment I've seen in a historical romance if not for one little thing. It's probably not even a real thing for most people. For me - it's the difference between a five-star rating and four stars. And that thing is? Lack of any other action between all the Jack and Amanda scenes. It's like they don't even exist if they're not talking with or about each other.See how that defeats the purpose?Still, a funny book.Over and out
Adorably fun and sexy read. I fell in love with Jack Devlin!!Jack DevlinAmanda Briars
Sleep deprivation might be the cause of my higher than usual rating. Or maybe it's Jack Devlin. I think I might be in love with that half Irish bastard. God, I need some sleep.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI read this book for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2017 Reading Challenge. For more info about what this is, click here.I've been wanting to read this standalone by Lisa Kleypas for a while now. One, it's a standalone, so I don't have to worry about acquiring the rest of the must-have series; and two, it's about a heroine who is a writer and a hero who is a publisher, and there's plenty of delightful book chatter, which I love
At the last moment, she decides to renege, little knowing that the surprised man who greets her on her porch that day is anything but a prostitute.Jack Devlin is probably one of the better romance heroes I've read this year.
My friend sraxe pointed out that the last half of the book actually got a little boring because there was so much sex crammed into it, and I agree; SUDDENLY YOU has way more sex in it than any other Kleypas book I've read to date.And as much as I wanted to like Amanda's character, her constant put-downs of herself were wearing after a while.
4 stars!So I really wanted to re-visit a fav author of mine so I bought this book back in December but couldn't get to it until recently and booooyyyyy I was not disappointed!Meet my Jack Devlin:Meet my Amanda Briars:So we begin with one of the most unique heroines in historical romance.
I know she touched upon it at the end but, I dunno...I wanted Jack more fleshed out!I really love how supportive Jack was of Amanda and her career and how modern he was in his thinking of women and our rights and how he didn't think it was a hinderance to have a female editor like many from that time would think.
..I'm running out of Lisa Kleypas books...
