https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1658337.Autobiography
His autobiography, published between 1913 and 1923 in three volumes – “My Childhood,” “In the World,” and “My Universities” – chronicles his life over its first three decades and is a beautifully written work, vivid and alive in its descriptions of peasant life in late 19th century Russia, brilliant and perceptive in its characterizations of many different people and personality types.
The book begins with his life in a family and society of harsh and even brutalizing poverty with almost constant domestic violence, moves to his leaving home shortly after he turned 10 when he began working at a variety of menial and grinding occupations, and finishes with the process of his gradual literary and political awakening during a time of great unrest and ferment across Russia.
One can see how Gorky's revolutionary ardour came from his own experience of suffering.
Those who wrote in the Socialist Realist genre because it was the law of the land that they do so, never quite achieved the same level of excellence as Gorky.
Ik heb dit boek gelezen in het Nederlands onder de titel 'Jeugherinneringen'.
Uitgegeven als nr.274 in de geweldige Privé- domeinreeks van de Arbeiderspers.
In 3 delen, 'Kinderjaren', 'Onder de mensen' en 'Mijn universiteiten'.
Gorki is een geweldige schrijver die een zeer indringend beeld schetst van het Rusland vanaf ongeveer 1870 tot 1890.
Waar hij in uitblinkt zijn beschrijvingen van personen,zowel uiterlijk als qua karakter.
Je ziet al die Russen voor je, terwijl ze sappelen om hun vaak zeer schamel kostje bij elkaar te scharrelen.
Bovendien is Gorki heel sterk in zijn beschrijvingen van de natuur.
Zeer aanbevolen.
holy shit that was a long book I really enjoyed Gorky's descriptions and dialogue. He can cast a scene so perfectly and tell so much with such a wry little sentence. "Though she was not fat, she was flabby, resembling an old cat past her mouse-hunting days, sluggish from overeating, who now could only purr over memories of past hunts and frolics." Great writer.
I LOVE MAXIM...I love the struggle of this Marxist author trying to convey the whole idea behind classes/proletarians/bourgeoisie from a very humanistic eye (if you ask me)...Great book to get to know Gorky a bit more.
