https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/119297.The_Girl_Who_Loved_Wild_Horses
One is still not given information as to from exactly where, from which of the sources featured, Goble's tales have been gleaned, which in a good supplemental author's note, should and would be the case.But for me, even more problematic (and yes, I know I am veering a bit off topic here, but I think this is necessary) is that for some of the more recent Iktomi retellings (the ones I found in my local library), Paul Goble has actually (in the front material) poked some rather nasty fun at his critics (mostly his Native American critics).
“The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses” is a true classic tale that every child will enjoy for many years!I have read many Native American folktales in my time, but never have I read one so full of luscious illustrations and an amazing story!
It is a very small image, but still, children who do not like the sight of blood might want to skip over this scene.Overall, “The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses” is a brilliant and memorable book for children who love reading Native American folktales and also has an extreme love for horses!
They trained their fastest horses to hunt the buffalo."With the word 'tipis' in that paragraph Goble suggests that these are Plains people.
The buffalo are another clue that suggests the story is one belonging to the Plains tribes.As the story begins, we learn of "a girl" (we are never given her name) who loved horses.
She and her herd are happy.Meanwhile, her people spend the next year looking for her.
She waved back, but the stallion drove her and the herd away from the hunters.
The girl gives her parents a colt, and she rides away, beside the stallion, reunited with the herd.

Caldecott Medal 1979I was surprised by how much I actually liked the illustrations.
I really appreciated the flow and movement to them with all the vivid colors that captured the Native Americans, their villages, and the flora and fauna in an authentic, yet passive way.
The story was interesting, but I must admit the plot weakened for me when the girl gave her parents a colt as a gift.
That just didn't make sense to me.
Why didn't the horses just live with her and her family?
The ending was a little odd, too.
I guess I wasn't expecting such a strong folklore tale.
Told in a simple, yet beautiful narrative, this story highlights American Indian beliefs in humanity's connection to nature.
A girl who has a special gift to talk to horses, finds that she is more at home with them than her own people, but she never forgets her parents or village and brings them a new colt every year.
There are also two American Indian songs about horses in the back of the book.The picutures are full color black ink and watercolor paintings and are in bright earth tones.
The story shows how a person can move on from their home without turning their back on their culture.
Paul Goble, born September 27, 1933, is author and illustrator of over 40 children’s books about Native Americans.
In this book, Paul Goble retells the legend of how this nation acquired horses, or became “horse people.” The book’s central character is a tribal girl that loves wild horses.
I drew and painted birds and butterflies from books in our home, and from things I saw in museums.”The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses was awarded a Caldecott Medal in 1979.
I read this award-winning picture book with Elizabeth Moseley, a young illustrator of her own stories.
A young girl loves horses and takes on the care of the tribe’s stock.
However, they notice a herd of wild horses, led by a spotted stallion, and they join that herd for help and protection.
Eventually the girl returns to her people, but she finds she misses the wild horses whom she has come to love, so she leaves her home to join the wild horses.
There is a message here about the relationship between people and the natural world, about protecting the resources of the earth, and being thankful for the gifts received from nature.
i recently had a discussion with a friend of mine about which picture books we liked best when we were children.
she mentioned really loving this one and i was surprised that i had never heard of it.so i remedied that by getting it from the library and it was really enjoyable.
they are beautifully painted and laid out in a way that reminds me of a collage, and all the colors are very earthy.
you can really see the fear in the animal's eyes during the big storm and the body language is perfect.the story itself is a bit far-fetched but i really liked it.
(hide spoiler)]
There were a group of horses standing further up the page and they were chopped at the ankles and a white space separated them from what was supposed to be the mirror image of them in the water.
There were random stones hanging in yet again blank white space, going up the page like they were supposed to represent a cliff but it didn’t show that.
The ground should have been colored in so it didn’t look like magic flowers growing out of nothing.The story made no sense to say the people looked everywhere for her but couldn’t find her, but then a year later 2 hunters went into the hills and saw her.
Pek sevemedim, 2.5 da diyebiliriz.
You never got a chance to relate with the main character and the illustrations, while beautiful, did not work with the words but beside them.
I've seen books where the pictures made the words better, they made the words worse, I've seen where the two blend together, fight each other, or merely sit there side by side and do nothing for each other.
That is what felt like was happening here.
The fact that both were done by the same person makes this harder to believe because I've tended to find picture books that do that have a different writer than artist and their parts don't mesh.
The thing is, I really expected to like this book...and didn't.
The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses has been one of my favorite books since I was a young girl.
It is a Navajo story about how a plains girl became one with the horses.
It begins with a young girl getting lost on the plains with her tribes horses she then meets the wild horses and they become one herd.
The young girl lives amoung them until one day men from her tribe find her and bring her home.
This story is a great Navajo Folk tale it explains how the girl became the horse.
These illustrations were beautifully done and really captures the Native American artwork; he used rich colors and intricate details on the clothing.
I especially liked this book because I love horses and have always dreamed about seeing wild mustangs.
What I found odd was that this young girl leaves her tribe to live with the wild horses.
I wonder how she was able to survive by herself out in the wilderness, especially being so young.
If I was to use this book in my classroom, I would read it to go along with the Native American unit.
I would also read other Native American folktales and have the students compare them.
This book gets three stars mostly because I just love the illustration, I think they are so vivid and colorful, I just want to stare at them all day. But I don't care for the story nearly as much as the pictures. I didn't really care for the ending and I thought that some parts of the story were a little weird and I wondered why the characters would act that way. All in all, this is a very pretty book that I think anyone could enjoy.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
This is another story that I thought was a little weird, but I had to put my own 21st century sensibilities away and take it for what it was. My reaction was that something should have been worked out so the girl could be with both the horses and her family but maybe she was older. Even if she was younger, she was happy and healthy and well cared for. The illustrations are wonderful, which explains the Caldecott medal it one.
I love the way Paul Goble creates different landscapes in his illustrations, simply by changing the arrangement of his figures on a white background. The story itself freaked me out a little bit, but I have never been fond of horses. Little girls with that particular obsession will undoubtedly relate much better to the girl’s desire to run with the horses, and to become one.
I love the Goble art, and I enjoy the story while I'm reading it, but it doesn't stay with me.
I think the illustrations still hold up, even decades later. Certainly any child passionate about horses will appreciate the images and concepts.
I absolutely love the illustrations in this book!
I know that the author didn't site the specific tribe or story origins.
Some reviewers are writing that this book should be cast aside because the author is white and didn't site his sources about this Native American Story.
Now obviously, if the author were writing this today, I would certainly want the author to make the correct notations.
I also want everyone to know that I am aware of the author's comments in newer reprints of this book and I think that they are very rude.
Beautiful, unique illustrations fill the pages and are a feast for the eyes. This reminds me of a book I would have read as a child--and probably did. Veg*n parents note: One page shows a buffalo hunt, with an arrow in one of the bison and a small amount of blood. Other hunters ride alongside bison, with bows drawn, preparing to shoot. This is done in the artist's stylized artwork and isn't very graphic. However, this image may still bother young or sensitive children.
Incredibly beautiful and detailed illustrations, but as better reviews and criticisms mention the lack of context, citation, specificity and respect that all in all contribute to negative and harmful cultural attitudes surrounding American Indian peoples and nations is deeply troubling.
This book shows a different culture and all that applies. The illustrations are amazing. The colors are so vivid and many of the animals have incredible detail. There is so much movement in the pictures as well. The girl loves her people, but the horses draw her in. The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses is so powerful with words and pictures.
After reading 62 indigenous children’s books over the past 2 weeks I came to some realizations. These stories need to be told by indigenous people from these communities. This book is blatant cultural appropriation. It is offensive.Goble is a talented artist, hence the 2 stars, but he is creating a work of Pan Indianism. He needs to collaborate with indigenous writers and add notes to the book, similar to what Joseph Bruchac does with his books, detailing the story’s origins.
Her parents agree that she should go back to living with the wild horses, spending so much time with them, she eventually becomes one.
The illustrations in this story show historical significance of Native Americans.
So maybe this book would have grasped my attention as a young child but looking at it now I have different feelings towards it.
If you did enjoy this book you could use it in an animal unit or even a Native American unit.
Culture and heritage is shown through the illustrations in this story.
“The Girl Who Loved Wild Horses” tells the story of a young girl who loves her people, but loves the horses more.
Her people say this is because she had become one of the wild horses herself.
The connection between the girl and the horses show the importance of a connection with nature in the Native American culture and could be read as part of a unit on folktales or the history of the United States.
I think that any student with an interest in folktales, horses, Native American culture, or beautiful illustrations would love this book.
This would be great for a social studies unit when learning about the continent of North America and how there were people who lived here before it was "discovered" by Christopher Columbus.
Once the students returned the next day with their written responses to these questions (they need be no longer than a paragraph but could be as long as a page - and depending on the age of the students, either they or their parents could write the story to be sent in in class) they would paint an illustration of significance having to do with the story their parent or guardian had related to them.
One day, she fell asleep during a storm and after a chain events became lost and could not find her way home.
I don't like picture books with too much text on any one page.
However, I love mythical tradition tales from different cultures.
The illustrations in this book really fit the story.
Sometimes, the pictures of the girl was hard to find, as if she was blending in with the colors and images.
Was this a conscious choice on the part of the author, who also illustrated the book?
In a Native American village, there is a girl who loves the wild horses.
She watches them as they run and graze near her village, but one day a thunderstorm hits and she is accidentally whisked away with the herd.
However, in her time away she had become one with the horses and must decide where she truly belongs.
The idea of the story is a great introduction to Native American culture and stories, making the connection at the end between the tribes and the people of the horses.
It also addresses the issue of deciding between two things you love.The illustrations in this book seemed quite true to Native American art.
I really like the illustrations in this Caldecott winner, and I enjoyed the story.
I am unsure what I think about the controversy, as this book was written over 30 years ago in a different era, and I personally feel like this book feels respectful.
However, I certainly think an author's note and/or bibliography telling the history of the story would be useful.
He does include a Navaho song about horses and a dream an Oglala Sioux had about a singing stallion, but while that does indicate that horses were important to many tribes, it does not give us a clear indication of which tribe or group this story comes from.
