https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13574417-alienated
Actual rating: 1.5 “Your long, shiny hair, healthy skin, and bright eyes show that you’re well-nourished.”“Uh, thank you?”“You’re clearly intelligent.” Then he felt the need to add, “For a human.”“But Eric was probably most attracted to your waist-to-hip ratio.” For a split second, Aelyx resembled a human boy as he leaned back and peered at her caboose. “Hips of that width are likely to pass live offspring without complications.” Oh, please don't stop. I'm swooning already.This book is not sci-f
The plot is simplistic, it doesn't really compel the reader at all, there's supposed to be some sort of "I WILL SAVE OUR SUPERIOR ALIEN RACE" shit, but it just got lost somewhere in the telling.This book is fucking simplistic, and it is an insult to the readers' intelligence.Am I asking so much in wanting the aliens to be a little more...imaginative?
Aelyx (the alien boy)'s favorite meal is PRETTY MUCH THE FUCKING SAME AS A MEAL ON EARTH.
Give them an alien world that's exactly the fucking same as Earth in every way, only have it be, you know, just a little different.
Where can I sign up for the L'eihr exchange program? With the right mix of sizzling omance, action, and suspense, ALIENATED is easily my favorite alien book to date. The chemistry between Cara and Aelyx oozes off the page. The blog bits were perfect and the research on human mating rituals? Ah, I laughed my bum off at that.
WELL WELL WELL.This book has completely captured me in its awesomeness! I have loved the world and it really was the best book to start of the month with. Melissa has flawlessly put together a world of aliens and humans meeting on an epic exchange program. Suspenseful and well..... my heart was destroyed at the end so thats nice ;D
Book 3 is coming!
https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...Yeah...another update.
Look for the audio book online, or request it from your local library.
:) One more update: Readers have been emailing to ask if there is a sequel to ALIENATED.
Yet another update: TRAILER REVEAL at USA Today's HEA blog!
http://t.co/s81p6H8zsf Yippee!Update #3: Some of you had asked me to mention when ALIENATED is available for pre-order.
Linky:http://www.amazon.com/Alienated-Melis...Update #2: COVER REVEAL today!
Here's the giveaway link: http://www.yahighway.com/2013/03/cove...
Congrats to Laura in AZ!)Update #1: Now that we have an approved back-cover blurb, how about a quick-n-dirty pronunciation guide?
THIS BOOK IS PERFECTION LOVED IT SO MUCH!
It was not even that good, I just really liked it. Addicting.
Excuse me while I heal my eyes -They've been rolling too much I fear.◆ This book does not have : Interesting characters- Cara is a fucking bitch : Yes, you read correctly.
Same goes for saying like after every other word." She pointed at Kaitlyn Ray and said, "I'm looking at you, Kaity."Oh, screw you, Cara.
How boring.- There's no plot except the so-called ❝forbidden romance❞ and yeah that's a huge problem when you can't stand the characters - Oh, sorry, there is some ❝mission❞ Aelyx planned with his friends, and to see them trying to hmmmm...
Basic plot: every high school in the country submitted their valedictorians to host one of 3 L'eihr alien ambassadors as exchange students.
Cara is chosen for America and the super gorgeous Aelyx moves in with her family.
Obviously Cara and Aelyx fall in love.
But Aelyx has other plans for Earth he has to carry out for his people aaaand his feelings for Cara make him CONFLICTED.
I think Cara's character is what really hurt this story for me...
I'm just not that into high school angst or aliens right now I guess.
L'eihr wants to make an alliance with Earth and exchanging students is a great way for everyone to get to know each other and become more comfortable.
Cara makes an effort to help him fit in and eventually she starts to see more to him.An alien exchange program isn't supported by all.
Aelyx and the other two exchanges students aren't as supportive as they seem.
They have a plan to stop this alliance but as Aelyx and one other exchange student start to enjoy life on earth everything will soon blow up in their faces.Aaelyx was quite a character.
*4 ALIEN STARS* "Look what I made for you. A bowl of diabetes." I gotta admit, I really enjoyed this book. It wasn't perfect, but it kept me captivated throughout everything and Cara and Aelyx's chemistry was great. The one downside was that things felt a little rushed sometimes, and especially at the start, some things were really predictable. Overall though, I would recommend this to anyone who has a soft spot for books involving aliens, romance and a lot of suspense, especially during the sec
Overall though, I would recommend this to anyone who has a soft spot for books involving aliens, romance and a lot of suspense, especially during the second half.
There was also a lot of humor involved, the quote above especially had me cracking up!Cara was the perfect heroine.
I'm seriously annoyed by female leads who can't stand up for themselves, and Cara really was a breath of fresh air.At first I didn't like Aelyx but in the end, he grew on me big time, especially after dropping the cold act and doing some really sweet things for Cara!I'm definitely going to read the next book, but I just don't have the urge to pick it up immediately, since Aelyx and Cara are probably going to be apart throughout the whole thing, meh...
Alienated brings us a good mix of humor and romance.
Then their difference in thought process for things like affection and modesty - the latter bringing in a good dose of humor.
There's a very strong pull towards an oncoming love triangle, but that aside, I'm thinking book 2 will have to work hard to not catch the middle-book bug.
It did have a touch of originality in terms of the alien vs human culture clashes and dark themes the book takes on, but it still easily compares to many other YA Alien books I have read.
4.5/5 StarsThis book it was so much fun! I haven't read an alien book in awhile and I'm really glad I picked up this one. Definitely recommend it if your looking for something light and easy to read :)
"The simple truth is most people can't manage total freedom. They make poor use of it. I buddy read this book with a couple of my girl friends I met here on gaoodreads and two who have finished earlier don't really like this book. One hated it more than the other. Hehe. (Hi Cam and Mel!) I was so expecting to actually hate this really. The first line of this book was enough to make me cringe and tell myself "oh no! what the hell did I just start reading??!. Surprisingly, I didn't hate this book
I know that even if I don't give out spoilers you guys would probably be able to guess what happens from here...Yes. Cara found an unlikely ally with Aelyx.
One of my friends read this first and she didn't have a good reaction towards the book so I had pretty low expectations.
I have only read 2 YA alien book and both of them I liked the male lead character (Daemon from The Lux Series.
I feel that the only people I liked in this book were Cara's parents.
My name is Mary and during high school I was Northern Arizona's Lincoln-Douglas Debate Runner-Up, Dramatic Interpretation Runner-Up, Debate Club Vice President, in the top fifty of Arizona's Math Competition, top ten percent of my class, volunteer tutor, and I bested my chess club teacher once in four-way chess.I'm not saying any of that to brag because seriously, high school doesn't matter the least in the real world.
It was the one thing that I actually adored in school and to sit here and tell me that Cara made a competitor cry tells me that the author knows very little about debate.
Nothing Cara ever said about debate made me think she was actually in, you know, a debate team.
THIS BOOK WAS CUTE. Cara & Aelyx are goals.I knew I'd really enjoy this because of my love of Aliens and everything to do with outer space adajflhsdfhj gAH. Can't wait to get my hands on the next book!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
I was thoroughly entertained and am happy to have a new alien series to enjoy!Two years ago, an alien race from the planet L’eihr made contact with humans for the first time.
L’eihr will be sending three of their most gifted teenagers to live with three human families.
Alienated may be light on the sci-fi, but I really enjoyed the little details that separated the L’eihrs from humans.
This is what I love about Melissa Landers’ romances, and I wish we had gotten a few more scenes like it.The ending of Alienated has me anxious and excited for the second book, Invaded.
I think I fell in love just a bit ;)) From time to time I fall in love with a cover – hard, instantly – and I never recover from it. You don’t know how much I just love the Alienated cover and how perfect it is for the story!The Good:- Imagining aliens looking like us, a better version of us – smarter, better looking, more advanced in all different ways; for some reason I like this concept, I wouldn’t mind it to be true, LOL.There were many differences between humans and aliens in terms of livin
You don’t know how much I just love the Alienated cover and how perfect it is for the story!The Good:- Imagining aliens looking like us, a better version of us – smarter, better looking, more advanced in all different ways; for some reason I like this concept, I wouldn’t mind it to be true, LOL.There were many differences between humans and aliens in terms of living, eating, behaviour, history, genetics and so on, and I loved discovering more things about Aelyx and his kind.
Thankfully, the phenomenal cover was not strategically created to cover up bad content.Basically, this book is about an adorably nerdy girl named Cara who hosts (lives with) a ridiculously attractive foreign exchange student (and alien) named Aelyx.
I was able to relate with Cara's fondness for academics, as well as with Aelyx's generally reserved personality.
As a consequence of the tenuous relations between humans and aliens, both Cara and Aelyx's lives were almost always at stake.
If you're looking for a mixture of sci-fi, romance and political intrigue, then this is definitely the book for you.
I...am not a fan. This book didn't work for me on any level, from the silly science to the cartoony characters to the broad humor to the painfully obvious romance. I basically enjoyed one scene in the book and that's it. And don't get me started on the whitewashed cover, ugh.Our review discussion is up on the blog:http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...
3.5 starsReview to comeA solid read overall!I promise to write up a full review of my likes and dislikes of this book in a few ...
this is another really cute YA fantasy from this great author!Melissa Landers is quickly becoming one of those "I will pick up anything she writes" sort of authors.
She is the queen of writing characters that feel their age without becoming "what an out of touch adult imagines a teenager sounds like" (you know what I'm talking about).
Her writing is quick and lighthearted and witty without sounding cheesy.
Since reading JLA's Lux series, I've been a massive fan of aliens and think there should be more of them in YA.
He's one of my top book boyfriends and when you read Alienated, you'll know why.
At first, he's a bit mysterious and bland, but as we and Cara gets to know him throughout the book, oh he's just the swooniest character ever.
If you're like me, and want believable and hot off the charts romance, Alienated is a must-read.
(By the way, I love this book title - very clever and bold) Anyway, Alienated will sure be a hit next year when it releases.
I definitely want to dive into the second book right now.
She is one of the few students in the world selected to help one of the alien students around.
Sounds like an awesome exchange student program - right?Well besides Cara, there's Aelys who didn't expect to be apart of this weird ass program.
I guess the one thing he also didn't expect was Cara.These two were so freaking adorable.
So I was really happy to dive into this book because it definitely reminded me of that.
Overall, I loved this book.
I can't wait to dive into the second book because this was just so entertaining.
He later meets Cara, a human with a passionate and gentle heart and a fiery spirit, and she could just be the key to weakening Aelyx's resolve.It may seem really cliché and worn-out due to the premise being written a hundred times in other novels, but reading this book, you'll find yourself grinning to yourself anyway, because the book's strongest point isn't the plot – it's the development between Cara and Aelyx as they learn more about each other.
Such a spectacular novel, this one.All in all, this was a great read, and would be an excellent introduction to the science fiction genre to others out there who are hesitant to try it.
My official comments:Intergalactic exchange students? Yes, please! I fell in love with this story and couldn't put it down.My unofficial comments:OMC. The hotness of some of those scenes. *fans self* (Also isn't that cover fantastic???)
When she’s assigned to host a L’eihr (Aelyx) for the intergalactic exchange program and has no choice but accepting, she knows a lot would change in her life.
Except she never thought she could actually come to like the guy, or shall I say Alien?This novel contains an alternative POV.This was fun and entertaining, exactly the kind of book that you’ll read to relax and have a good time.
But since Cara and Aelyx aren’t part of them, it made reading Alienated a lot more enjoyable.
I look forward to reading the sequel!
4.5/5This book was very good.
I had been wanting to read it for a long time so I was glad that my library got it.
I read it quickly because it was so hard to put down.
I loved the romance between the two characters, Cara and Aelyx, though I thought that it was a bit rushed in the beginning.
I thought that Cara was a good character because she was very smart and could stand up to each other.
Her best friend though I didn't like toward the end of the book.
The action was amazing especially towards the ending.
"How can we understand what we’ve never experienced and adapt without making mistakes"I have been on the fence about this book for quite a while, pondering whether to read it or not.
His arrival however incites the usual prejudice which sadly escalades and turns only too quickly to violence.
And it isn't just the humans - no, the L'eihr aren't perfect either.The novel focuses of course on Cara and Aelyx, from their initial mistrust to reluctant friendship.
Both have their prejudices too but at least are intelligent enough to try to see beyond these.
Loved this book and the slow, building romance. The characters are awesome and really like learning about the home world. I found myself craving pot roast, but not bland pot roast. If you're a sci-fi fan, pick this one up.
3.75/5 or 4/5 I honestly can't decide which fits it more for me.So many of my friends here on Booktube have recommended this book to me, and I am so glad I finally picked it up, especially after reading a lot of fantasy up until it.
I am especially glad that this book was a dual perspective story, I think it worked better this way.I would have preferred for them to have a little bit more relationship because the events of what happened towards the end.On the world-building scale, I thought Landers wrote it very originally.
Ya kitap cooook mu müthiş, kusursuz da beş yıldız verdin?
derseniz...
yok öyle bir şey.
ama kendini öyle hızlı okuttu, elden bıraktırmadi ki, bunu yapmam gerekiyordu.Bu aralar kitapları yavaş okuyordum, bugün kendime bir kitap seçeyim dedim ve @go_kitap'tan çıkan, #melissalanders 'in Yabancı kitabını elime aldım.
Ve beş ya da altı saat sonra bitiverdi.
Gerçekten çok akıcı, hareketli, macerayı hissettiren bir kitaptı.
Hani bu YA kitaplarındaki pembe gözlüklü, laylaylom hikayelerden değildi kesinlikle.
Karakterlerin yaşadıkları ve hissettikleri şeyler size geçen cinsten şeyler.
Gerçekten severek okudum ve tavsiye ederim.
Çünkü son zamanlarda bir kitap okuyorsunuz, muthis.
Umarım öyle değildir, yarın İşgalci'ye başlıyorum
