https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7129598-nevermore
I wrote this book thinking the entire time how much I would have enjoyed reading something like it when I was a teen. And that's the best way I know how to write because then, the rest just follows.
I loved the interactions between the family members: how her little brother seems to care about nothing much expect his video games but is always there to cover for her when she is in trouble, and especially how her dad doesn't hesitate to make a complete fool out of himself in front of a horde of teenagers to help Isobel with her class project.So, in fact, my only complaint here is: Why does it end on such a mean cliffhanger?
The story ended way too apruptly, and hadn't I loved the book so much, I might have been less forgiving about that.
**I am SO happy to be re-reading this one...My baby Varen-You never got a real review!
Hope I can rectify that ♥Omg this book...it was beyond words spectacular and out of this world amazing.
I don't know why I've never read this one before, but for my vacation it has been PERFECT-mesmerizing.
Sitting on the beach (even at this moment), not knowing the difference between dream and reality...just breathtaking.
I adored this book from beginning to end, and I still haven't decided if I rated high enough.
I'll let you know, though ;).Until I post a mini-review again...
Latas ♥For more of my reviews, please visit:
Oh don't give me that look, half the planet swoons over a dead guy whose genitals sparkle in the sunlight, so don't act like this is weird.So, meet Isobel, your typical cheerleader who lives up to every stereotype that comes with being a girl who waves pom poms around in a short skirt.
To make matters even worse: It doesn't go smooth to begin with and Isobel's overprotective (I just say he's jealous and insecure as hell) boyfriend decides to make Varen's life miserable because he wrote his number on Isobel's hand in class.Isobel didn't want Brad to know because he would overreact but her 'friend' Nikki, who I didn't like from the moment I met her, decided to tell anyway.
At first, it very much looks like your garden-variety paranormal YA: jocks, cheerleaders, cliques, mean girls, emo-goths, star crossed lovers, you get the gist.
The story starts, quite predictably, with Isobel - blonde, cheerleader, girlfriend of THE football player of the school - getting paired up for an English project with Varen - goth guy, aloof, antisocial, with a mean girlfriend but magnetically irresistible.
The key seems to be a book of the works of Edgar Allan Poe that Varen has given to her her for the project and that appears to have a life of its own.
But I still love the cover regardless.The characters are what made this novel for me.
Isobel & Varen were extremely well written, well fleshed out characters.
I have to say that I Isobel's new friends were much more appealing.I loved the references to the Poe....
I'm looking forward to reading more.As much as I loved the story, I do have to say that I was a little confused at times durning the last quarter of the novel...
But other than that, I loved the developing relationship between Isobel and Raven....
Unfortunately after finishing the novel I'm sorry to say that it was barely a two star read for me.Nevermore tells the story of Isobel Lanely, a popular blonde cheerleader, who is partnered with super goth, Varen Nethers, for an English project about Edgar Allen Poe. This pairing, which was chosen by the teacher, causes outrage among Isobel's friends.
Isobel is drawn to Varen from the beginning, before she learns that there's more to him than just being a goth, and by the end of the novel, which takes place over the course of a month, she's willing to die for him and risk the lives of her friends and family for him.
This. Book.   Is nothing like I've ever read before. Sure it starts out in a school, like most cliche books. But then it gets creepy and wicked. And considering as how it's based on Edgar Allan Poe's works...it doesn't surprise me. It excites me. :3 Also, it makes me want to read some of his pieces. And I have The Complete Tales and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe myself, so...*hugs it tightly to my chest*I really liked loved this book because it keeps me guessing on what will happen, and what/who peo
Sure it starts out in a school, like most cliche books.
And I have The Complete Tales and Poems of Edgar Allan Poe myself, so...*hugs it tightly to my chest*I really liked loved this book because it keeps me guessing on what will happen, and what/who people are.
Usually, when I read books, I sometimes see stuff coming, or be like, "Oh!
Like, I know Nikki apologized, and you'd think it would be for all four of them..
:D I don't care if (view spoiler)[Brad broke his leg, and ventured off into the unknown land of Varen's mind.
This is what I assumed it would be about: The goth boy, Varen, would have some mental issues (like schizophrenia), and the popular cheerleader girl, Isobel, will fall in love with him and find help for him.
Which is not a bad thing because Isobel & Varen's relationship and everything in the story isn't rushed.
I will not spoil the ending, but let me just say that when I read the last line in the book, I was thinking, There should be sequel.
What I want you to know about this book: Of all the 2010 releases I've read this year, NEVERMORE ties with Tyger Tyger as my favorite.
What I'm trying to say is that this book doesn't just name-drop Poe a few times or make vague, random references to the poet or his works.
Instead, Kelly blends Poe's masterpieces with her own incredible imagination to create an original, engaging and highly addictive story.The characters, too, were so amazing.
And at the same time, Creagh subtly built up the suspense: something's not quite right with Varen, and his peculiar "gift" turns out to be quite a curse.
First read in September 2010:Even though I am not usually into this kind of paranormal stories, and the goth things are not my type either, Nevermore had something really special that kept me reading from the first page to the last one (and wanting for more). The story seems simple in the beginning: Isobel is paired with Varen in an English project and, as different as they are (she - a cheerleader, he - a strange goth boy), they get to know each other better and slowly fell in love one for the
The story seems simple in the beginning: Isobel is paired with Varen in an English project and, as different as they are (she - a cheerleader, he - a strange goth boy), they get to know each other better and slowly fell in love one for the other.
Another thing I love about this book is the fact that it fells 'real' - the connection between main characters, the dialogue, the action, even the paranormal elements were made to feel real, possible.
(some additional thought to come soon)__PS: I definitely have to say one more thing: the English project was NOT just a way to start the story, but it turned to be a great moment in the book too..
WHAAAAAT?!?!I've been sucked in by this book for the last two days - ignoring my family and my life (yes, it was THAT GOOD) - only to come to the uber-shocking, frustrating, non-ending ending.
For the record, let me just say that Nevermore was gearing up to be a 4.5-star read, but the end just left me feeling cheated.Yeah, I get that the ending is a cliffy meant to leave me panting for the next book, but DAMN, that was just plain mean.
OCTOBER 15TH UPDATE:Alrighty...after much thought - and despite the ending - this book was lovely and well worth a 4.5-star rating.
Oh, and yeah, Varen.I think you-- yes you reading this-- understand that when I say I’m sick of the perfect boy that’s all beautiful, sparkles or glows in the dark (whatever's in right now I guess) etc etc, that you agree.
So, this book really drove me into getting back into Poe, because I truly love him!
This is one of those books I got so lost in that I wasn't worrying about page numbers or the length of the chapters, well actually I wanted them to be super long so I could get more of the story but you know what I mean.
For book 2 Enshadowed, see my review here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...I've decided to take some time to pimp my Nevermore's fanart here: “Lady Ligeia," he began again, "is a woman in the literature who returns from the dead, taking over another woman's body to be with her true love.""Oh, yes. Lovely" Isobel blanched. "I guess the other chick didn't mind at all?”  Being a Poe's devotee ever since I was a secondary school student, I was excited to come across Nevermore which takes us
So as a young girl who was currently in a relationship (with a popular boy in her group), wouldn't Isobel have came up with some opinions on Poe's expression of romantic, dark love?While reading the book, I noticed Nevermore is clearly its author's labor of love, by someone who adores Poe's works of art.
After finishing Nevermore I'd very much love to learn more about him, therefore I seriously hope Miss Creagh will write more about Varen in the sequel.
This book. Trying to finish it is like going back to my chubby eight-year-old self loafing along the track on my school sports day, fighting to finish the race, knowing it's a lost cause because I'm humiliated anyway and I may as well just stop, because I'm tasting blood, but if I don't finish the thing I don't get a consolation medal.This book.
Plot Insanity The whole plot hinges around the fact that main character Isobel's entire crew (don't get me started on how annoying it is that a HS senior would refer to her group of friends as "her crew.") ostracizes her for something completely out of her control: her English teacher assigns her a partner for a project who they don't like--creepy, emo, monotone Varen.
I should have been told what was going on sooner than 500 pages.Cliche-orama Every high school cliche is crammed into this book.
(See Problems with Ending)Gwen Liked her a lot, even though the quirky friend is a little cliche.
Yes, I know its a paranormal, but that should make it illogical, not unrealistic.
In real life, at least at my school, there is very little open hostility between goths and jocks.
There were sentences like: "Isobel tried the door.
I wasn't a big fan of either Isobel and Varen.
They were stereotypical, and Isobel annoyed the heck out of me.
And besides, there is only one goth boy in my life: Erik Derenksi.
*shrugs* He acts like he hates me, but he loves me.
The beginning was slow-going, a crazed raven here, a funky dream there, but the end was like WHOOSH.
“There is no exquisite beauty… without some strangeness in the proportion.” When Isobel is paired with Varen for the English class project, she is horrified. Varen is dark and cold and sarcastic and there are lots of rumors about him that make being around him quite uncomfortable. Firstly, she only wants to recieve a good mark, but soon it is not about the project anymore. There is something about Varen and his piercing eyes and Isobel does not know what it is, but she cannot resist being wit
There is something about Varen and his piercing eyes and Isobel does not know what it is, but she cannot resist being with this gloomy Goth.
I was immediately in love with Varen and his piercing eyes and I loved him even more after he said that Sir Edgar Allan Poe is a literary god.
Firstly, she was rather open-minded and though she had a problem with Varen being a Goth at the beginning, it soon changed.
And another aspect I loved about this book was the relationship between Isobel and Varen.
I loved this book from the first until the last page and I loved both Varen and Isobel.
Ingredient #1: Edgar Allan PoeBecause whose tales and poems would make a better foundation for a gothic and slightly creepy book about disappearing into otherworldly dreams?
His stories and verses were so seamlessly woven into and intertwined with this story and added just the right amount of literature and grotesquerie.I never even read any of Poe's tales or poems before I was introduced to his genius through this book and actually bought a special edition of his complete collection, just like the one Varen has in Nevermore.
Those things happen all the time in school - well, they don't like each other.
I was not going to write a review for Nevermore because it was one of those books that kept me reading mouth open, eyes wide, fingers stuck not able to type in any ideas.
Then again, I felt like writing a review would push you guys into giving this book a try.
Worked for me like a charm.And last but not least, the reason why I loved Nevermore so much is Varen.
Do you like reading books?a.
no (0 points)If your answer score is 2 or higher, then Nevermore is the book for you.Read it.Review also posted on
After reading this book, I’m motivated to dive into his writing again because the author did an absolutely POE-fect job blending his style with her imaginative story to take the reader on a mystical, gothic adventure.
I’m so glad I was challenged to read Nevermore because I had no idea how much I was going to LOVE this book!!The only reason I’m removing ½ a star is because the ending has a hellava painful cliffy and second Varen kept going missing every time I wanted more of him.
Oh my God.This was the best book I have ever read in my entire life. At least, way, way up there.I'm speechless. It was amazing.It's better than so many books.It is, without a shadow of doubt, one of the most amazing books I'v ever laid my hands on.I love it so much.It was just perfect. I loved every moment spent devouring it.
We have some SERIOUS tension, anticipation, and one of the most heartfelt romances between yummy, brooding Varen and sharp-witted Isobel.
I hate to say it, but I've not felt this much anticipation and sexual tension between two characters since Twilight.
If this book wasn't so pretty and I didn't love everything about it so much, I would've crossed out some words and improvised a little making out every single paragraph.
She has some of the best lines in the book, which I will go back and re-read plenty of times when I need a laugh.Kelly Creagh has done a wonderful thing with this novel.
I'll be honest- I'm not a big fan of Poe's works, while I've read my share of what he's done, his stories have given me nightmares and while I laugh myself sick watching zombies movies I was pretty leery reading this book( take that as you will) Nevermore surprised me at every turn, Kelly Creagh turned something old into something new, but the best of all was the blooming romance between our main leads Isobel & Varen.
I enjoyed the pace of the story, the only trouble I did have was at the start and toward the finish with the confusing dream scape world Isobel and Varen fall in.
If a book could be described as IMAX then Nevermore is that book; the characters and scenes sprang from the pages of the book to play out in front of me in striking clarity.
I loved how Creagh highlighted the cliques at high school and the way certain people are seen for the way they look and act – goths, jocks, cheerleaders etc.
She cares about school and cheerleading and what her friends think about her, but the slight shallowness of what she deems important is offset by the strength of her character.
And Isobel is definitely a strong character with an ingrained sense of right and wrong.
I don't understand why I ended up loving his creepy character so much...but there it is.
Definitely one of the best books I have read all year, and in fact one of my all time favorites as well.It is fitting that Nevermore, much like the characters of Isobel and Varen, ended up being so much more than I expected.
She's trapped in a satire and it's getting spooky!"Allow me to elaborate.For a class project, preppy, happy blonde cheerleader Isobel gets partnered with Varen, who dresses like a goth and is a total outsider non-conformist and hangs out with people who look just like him and listen to the same music and enjoy going to the same events (they're all totally non-conformists).
Isobel was kind of a cool protagonist: she had the guts to leave her friends when they were dicks, she fought for what she wanted (to stay on the cheerleading squad) but when it came to the last third of the book, she spent the majority of it running around like a headless chicken and not doing anything anyone advised her to.
I mean, dammme is this some seriously sensational story telling!!I'm just going to start with Varen Nethers, cause lets face it, he's the soul of this entire epic story.Varen is probably with out a doubt the most complex and intense character I have ever read, that's right Edward Cullen, push over, your not complex enough me no longer.Everything about him is enticing and intriguing, his look, his mannerisms and his voice.
Her faith and everlasting strength to be a good person, stand up to what she believes in while going through a wide range of unimaginative things and attempts to save the man that she loves from his own escape, merit an 'your totally awesome' in my book.
At last he stopped, and she stared down at the printed column of words, unable to comprehend a single one.
I hope that quote incite you to read this book.
The plot it refreshingly different from other YA paranormal reads.
I don’t want to say to much, but I will say - no vampires, no werewolves, no angels and mostly importantly no love triangle.
It is mysterious, dark and will have you guessing right until the end.
But don’t let that put you off reading this book because this is one of the few books you shouldn‘t miss.
Final rating: 4.5/5 starsFinal rating - for the whole series: 3.75/5 stars  "For all of this, I know, is but a dream.And when, in sleep, at last we wake,I will see you again.”  ⚠ This is a review focusing on the whole series, as well as the first book.
I won't spoil the plots of the other two books, but this will include my opinion on them as well.✍ ☘ ❦ ☕ ❂ ✄ ☸ ⚡ ⚓ ☁ ☂ ✎ ✍ ☘ ❦ ☕ ❂ ✄ ☸ ⚡ ⚓ ☁ ☂ ✎ ☸ ⚡ ⚓ I read this book in August of 2012.
I also read second one shortly after that.
And now, in Octob
So, the both of them, after clearing up misunderstandings, and after dealing with some unpleasantness in between, decide to do a project on Poe. But, Isobel doesn't know that something dark and twisted wants Varen for itself.
Because of this, aka, not letting people finish what they wanted to say, she manages to get herself into even bigger mess.(view spoiler)[ The issue i had with her is that she whined a lot in the last two books - not that i minded that, not really - but i did mind that she, in the end, was not even thinking about the feelings of her family, her brother especially and her best friend, Gwen.
