https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19312.The_Brothers_Lionheart
In high school I loaned this to a girlfriend and then she dumped me and then I called her house like every day all "GIVE ME MY BOOK BACK" until she finally left it outside my door so she wouldn't have to talk to me.I was a pretty big fan of this book.
If you don't like this book you just don't understand anything.Simply one of the best children's books ever written. It treats very serious questions in a truly admirable way and gives hope at the same time. Pure, honest, brave and magical.
And I have read quite a few reflections on the book, as well - mostly discussions about whether or not she was right to break the taboo of death in a children's adventure book.What remains with me are two things: the power of storytelling to make life bearable, and the recurring pattern of human society, regardless of plot, setting, characters and purpose of the story.The first chapter is of the kind that makes you cry helplessly: a poor boy with a deadly illness, probably tuberculosis, overhears his mother talking about his expected death.
remember that book you read in your childhood?
it was in hardcover, it was a bit dusty and used, and you had that feeling that you would like this book.
remember that book in your childhood that, in a way, is the main reason for your deep love to books?
that book that holds magic to you?
that when thinking of your childhood, you also thinking of it?
the book you loved best as a child?
that book that couldn't be replaced?
that one, special book that has a warm place in your heart till this day?
الأخوان ليون هارت اللذان اصطحباني إلي نانجيالا، والآن لا أود العودة من هناك.
A school teacher I knew at the time had read this story aloud to her pupils in school and had made sure to tell the children not to throw themselves from tall buildings because there was no such thing as Nangijala – the magical place that Karl and Jonatan go to after they die (early on in the book, so no spoiler).
I know I’m not the only person to feel this way about The Brothers Lionheart, indeed I believe it’s part of the landscape of childhood for many Scandinavians, which just underlines how wondrous and magical Astrid Lindgren was.
The book that made me who I am today.The one that taught me to stand up for my friends. The book that showed me that Somethings you just HAVE to do, or else you are not a real human being, just a little speck of dirt. Of course, I read it in the original Swedish, but anyone who has half a mind of reading something truly healing should give this a go in English. It is well translated, and she IS, after all, the mother of Pippi Longstockings. I rest my case.Jonatan, jag ser ljuset.
Beautiful, heartbreaking, uplifting and timeless. Astrid Lindgren Forever! :)*****“Why did you save Park's life, was that so good?''I don't know if it was such a good thing to do,' said Jonathan. 'But there are things you have to do, otherwise you're not a human being, just a piece of dirt. I've said this to you before.''But what if he'd realized who you were?' I said. 'And they had caught you!''Well, then they would've caught Lionheart and not a piece of dirt,' said Jonathan.” ― Astrid Lindgren, The Brothers Lionheart
Alligevel kunne jeg ikke lade være med at tænke på, hvor skønt det ville være, hvis vi ikke hele tiden skulle være så stærke og modige."Jeg købte denne bog kort efter jeg sidste sommer var i Junibacken og blev mindet om dette skønne eventyr af Astrid Lindgren, da vi tog med Eventyrtoget rundt, for at se Lindgrens forskellige historier.
Jeg fandt den alt for uhyggelig og jeg brød mig virkelig ikke om, at den handlede så meget om død, men nu, mange år og flere tab senere, værdsætter jeg dog virkelig Lindgrens skønne og hjerteskærende historie.
Bevat alles wat een goed verhaal voor kinderen en volwassenen nodig heeft.
The relationship between Tvebak and Jonathan (the Danish names) is so unbelievably precious, and leaves me in tears, even now, despite it being a childrens book.
It's a wonder of a children's book, really a masterpiece, handling some very difficult themes, and many of the exact things that I value so highly and have struggled with myself: trust, freedom, fighting for what you believe in, loyalty, and keeping the ones you love safe, whatever the cost.
And this presents all of these things in a lovely, heartbreaking and hopeful tale.
There's no doubt I'll be reading this to my own children some day.
Astrid Lindgren schreibt tolle, fantasievolle Märchen für Kinder. Schade, dass ich die Bücher erst jetzt für mich entdeckt habe. "Die Brüder Löwenherz" erzählt ein Abenteuer zweier Brüder, die wirklich zeigen, was Geschwisterliebe ist.
She has the gift of writing books that are read one way by children and another by adults.
It was a strange experience to read the book to my daughter and watch her react to it in the same way I had as a child, while I was now experiencing a different book.
This realisation didn't detract from the story at all, it just made it a different experience.What's more important is that I had trouble keeping my voice steady during the opening chapters, and had to take a break to wipe my tears before I could read on.
No creo que sea un tremendo spoiler cuando digo que ambos mueren porque pasa en las primeras 3 páginas del libro, y pasan a la tierra de sagas y leyendas.Todo va bien hasta alli, y hasta paso que sean dos chicos que quieren pasar aventuras y su idea de la muerte aparte de acampar y pescar sea pasar aventuras que entrañan espionaje, guerra y muertes...
Lo siento, señora autora, pero no lo entiendo.Ahora, leyendo en un sitio comentan que la intención de la autora fue que parece que ¿en realidad la tierra de las sagas en realidad fue un sueño, y al final es cuando en realidad muere?OooO¿Es este un libro para niños?
If I told you one of the most famous Swedish children's books started with two boys dying, would you believe me? Because it's true. And it still manages to be sweet and lighthearted.All makt åt Tengil, vår befriare.
Nezinu, vai ir godīgi tā ņemt un izravēt manu sirdi. Ārkārtīgi smaga grāmata. Nesaprotu, kāpēc pie tās atgriežos, atkal visa esmu lupatās.
Baiss un sirdi plosošs skaistums, kas tik nepiespiesti un pārliecinoši sagrauj visus tabu par to, ka bērniem nevar izstāstīt par nāvi. Izrādās, ka var - ar ģimenes mīlestības neuzvaramo spēku, ar nometnes ugunskuriem un pasakām, ar neaptraipītu cēlumu. Brāļu piedzīvojumiem ir tik daudzas nozīmes, kuras ar katru nākamo lasīšanu nākamajā vecumā šķiet pavisam citas, jo tagad, piemēram, nespēju atbrīvoties no domas, ka Ērkšķrožu ieleja ir Padomju Savienība. Svarīga grāmata."Bet ir tādi darbi, kas jādara, citādi cilvēks ir tikai niecīgs puteklis, to es tev jau esmu teicis."
و تغیرات در روند داستان کاملا ناگهانی رخ میداد که انگار نویسنده ناخودآگاه چیزی یادش آمده و نوشته باشد...داستان های کودکان خیلی بهتر از این نیز خوانده بودم در خود وب سایت نویسنده نوشته بود که در روزی که آسترید به سفری با قطار به طرف دریاچه ی فریکن رفته است و هوا سرد و برفی بوده انگار که دنیایی خارج از این دنیای واقعی ما در جلوی چشمانش پدیدار شده ..آسترید درآنجا تصمیم میگرد که داستانی را بنویسد که در محلی خارج از زمین به وقوع بیوفتد...وقتی با دوستش در قبرستان راه می رفته، نگاهشان به سنگ قبری می افتد که مال دو برادر بوده است..
همینجا میگوید که من چیزی نمی دانم جز این که داستانم در مورد مرگ دو برادر خواهد بود...
You mean kill?" "Yes, what else would I mean?" said Orvar.
"But I can't kill anyone," said Jonathan.
It begins with the tragic deaths of two young brothers who are then reunited in the land of Ningiyama, where the world is still as it was in the age of sagas with many adventures to be had.
Despite what a one-star review on this site claims, the ending actually was foreshadowed earlier on and the world after Ningiyama was named by the elder brother Lionheart.
Still, it's a strange way to end a children's story and I'd like to know what an actual 10-year old reader (the suggested lowest age on my copy of this book) would make of it.
وای که چهقدر کارل رو میفهمیدم... خیلی زیاد...این که همیشه میخواست که هرجور شده پیش برادرش باشه. وقتی که میگفت ماجراهای نانگیالا چطور میتونن خوب باشن وقتی یوناتان پیشش نیست. وقتی که به برادرش گفت: «یوناتان بیچارهام! تو هم دیگر شاد نیستی.کاش فقط میتوانستم تو را شاد کنم!» خیلی دوستداشتنی بود محبت این دو تا برادر...
وای که چه‌قدر کارل رو می‌فهمیدم... خیلی زیاد...این که همیشه می‌خواست که هرجور شده پیش برادرش باشه. وقتی که می‌گفت ماجراهای نانگیالا چطور می‌تونن خوب باشن وقتی یوناتان پیشش نیست. وقتی که به برادرش گفت: «یوناتان بیچاره‌ام! تو هم دیگر شاد نیستی.کاش فقط می‌توانستم تو را شاد کنم!» خیلی دوست‌داشتنی بود محبت این دو تا برادر...
آه...یوناتان...نون قندیِ عزیز دلم... :) :( :*عالی بود و بس.با تمام وجودم دوستش داشتم و درکش کردم ...
Klassikko, jonka uskalsin viimein lukea uudelleen yli kolmenkymmenen vuoden jälkeen. Kannatti.
Jag kan bli irriterad på Astrid Lindgren.
Barnlitteratur är förmodligen bättre och mer upplyft nu än någonsin förut, ändå förbises den alltför ofta under devisen "men ingen kommer ändå slå Astrid Lindgren".
Och absolut, hon är extremt betydelsefull och vid omläsning av denna nyutgåva av Bröderna Lejonhjärta så är det svårt att inte se det.
Men på vissa sätt så står hon i vägen för en Frida Nilsson, en Ylva Karlsson och en Klara Persson.
Tycker inte att de olika versionerna behöver bråka med varandra, båda fyller sin funktion.
Bröderna Lejonhjärta är ändå en fantastisk bok.
(view spoiler)[(Jeg mener, come on - først brødrenes samtaler om døden, og morens veninder der syntes at svagelige Karl skulle være død i stedet for smukke Jonatan under branden, og klasselærerens notits i avisen, og den hvide due i vinduet - og så Karls seddel til moren da han kan mærke at det er den nat han kommer til at dø?
Og det her citat fra slutningen, før den afgørende kamp:(view spoiler)["Jamen, jeg kan ikke dræbe nogen," sagde Jonatan.
(hide spoiler)]Der er håb, men der er også tungt vemod og vanskelige beslutninger og børn som slet ikke er gamle nok til at forholde sig til noget af det, men som kæmper sig igennem alligevel, alene og sammen med hinanden.
Det at vende tilbage til et barndomseventyr, som er blevet fortrængt gennem årene, er en helt fantastisk og unik læseoplevelse - især Astrid Lindgrens eventyr. "Brødrene Løvehjerte" ramte mit hjerte og mine tårer trillede ofte ned ad kinderne under min læsning af det fine eventyr. Jeg sidder nu lidt tom tilbage, og ville ønske at jeg kunne tage med Brødrene Løvehjerte ud på nye eventyr i Nangilima!
Ich bin einfach begeistert, wie Astrid Lindgren es schafft solche ernste Themen so mutig zu behandeln. Und die schönen detaillierten Zeichnungen unterstreichen einfach perfekt die abenterreurereiche, traurige aber immer hoffnungsvolle Geschichte.
Waar gaat het boek niét over?? Moed, doorzettingsvermogen, goed en kwaad, vriendschap, hoop, warmte, geborgenheid en ga nog maar even door!
I remember my mom reading this to me when I was very young.
It's just as good as I remembered it to be.I love the way Karl describes his brother Jonathan, it's full of admiration and love, in a way only a child can describe it.I also really loved grandpa and the way he tested these two young boys.
I remembered it being much more sad, and so I was surprised when I found out that this wasn't necessarily a story about loss, but more so one of courage and love.
For years I've had a strong but vaguely-detailed memory of a book I read as a child.
I knew that a boy followed his brother to a land after death, and I had a blurry image of what was possibly the cover, and I knew that younger-me had been deeply moved by it in some way.
I felt like I read it with two minds: the older-me watching the younger-me rediscovering it with a sense of awe.
Any kid who's a sibling should read this book if only for that.
نعود للشخصيات، الأخوين قلب الأسد: الأكبر هو الأخ المحب لأخيه، وهو القدوة إن صح التعبير، فمواصفات شكله وأخلاقه تعكس نبله، ولكن الأخ الأصغر صاحب الشكل الغير ملفت نهائيا، والذي يعاني من مرضه ويشعر بعجزه هو له الدور المحوري في القصة، لأنه ينتقل من الضعف والخوف إلى الجرأة والشجاعة.هناك شخصيات فرعية كثيرة، فمنها الأم التي تسعى لرعاية ابنيها والتي ذكرت في جزء بسيط من البداية ثم اختفت نهائيا عن الأحداث، والمدرسة التي أطلقت على الأخ الأكبر اسم قلب الأسد -لأسباب ستذكر في القصة- .ثم هناك شخصيات العالم الثاني فهي كثيرة ويمكن القول أن كلا منها يعكس شخصية معينة كالمناضل، أوالخائن، أو التكبر، أو المنعزل وغيره..
