https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/140127.In_the_Hall_of_the_Dragon_King
Its not that I disliked this book so much as I got to about page 120 and thought, "life is too short and there are too many other good books to read for me to waste my time reading something this lame."
I loved this book. Here's the plot line: A kingdom hangs in the balance as a young boy answers the call of duty and heads out on a fantastic quest. Many twists and turns.
I will admit right off the bat that I am not the target audience for this novel -- I don't generally read YA (though I'm not convinced this was originally conceived as a YA novel); I don't like quest fantasy OR Arthurian fantasy OR Christian fiction; and a coming-of-age story has to be pretty potent for me to be at all interested.
WAY too much telling instead of showing (actually, I can't think of a single scene -- the story was all exposition), and the part that really bugged me was that the whole world-view was far too simplistic -- the evil characters were evil because they were evil, and (reminiscent of Saturday morning cartoons) they even seem to think of themselves as evil.
Untried but willing, a youth is called upon to rescue a magically-imprisoned king, in a land where the worship of pagan gods vies with that of the One True. In many respects (basic plot, characters, and setting), this is a fairly typical coming-of-age fantasy, though well-written; it was one of evangelical author Lawhead's earlier works, and doesn't fully reflect the real flowering of his talent that would develop as he honed his craft. What distinguishes it from the pack, even at this early stage, though, is his subtle infusion of a Christian world-view into the story.
Chato. Personagens esteriotipadas. Primeiro livro que pousei no chão de um restaurante sem me preocupar se o pisava sem querer... Irritou-me. O enredo é superficial, aliás, tudo parece TÃO superficial. Não sei como fez sucesso. Só cheguei à página 100, mas já estou encalhada lá há 1 ano. Desisto. A vida é demasiado curta para desperdiçar tempo a ler livros destes.
In a post-Tolkien world, there seem to be an abundance of fantasy books that should never have been written.
This is an overly-predictable, orphan-turned-hero, good-vs-evil story, the kind which is best read before Christmas, after which (hopefully) you will have better stuff to read.
(The logic here bothers me: why was this king missing for 15 years when it only takes a few days to sail to evil Nimrood's castle?) Together with the typical band of heroes, he journeys to the other side of the world to save the day.
** spoiler alert ** This book featured "clunky" writing and a rather heavy-handed religious subtext, but in spite of those issues, I enjoyed the story of Quentin and his comrades in their quest to find and free the Dragon King.
What I liked: The Jher, especially Toli, who accompanies Quentin and becomes both his servant and friend.
And the revelation at the end, that Bria is her daughter, the Princess--totally unbelievable.
(OK, Lawhead never says that Bria is the Eskevar & Alinea's daughter, but she is a Princess of the realm, which would imply that.)
Very good read!! I think I wanted more action but there was no shortage of adventure!
Oh, and ALL "tell", never any "show", so the whole thing is exposition that then awkwardly tells you the characters feelings in bland fact-expository-statements or the horrid use of adverb-verb descriptions of actions to lazily tell you the characters motivations without actually having to show it through dialog or description of the character's inner voice.The evil characters are over the top evil: apparently you can't wear red or black in this universe and not end up cackling (yes, he uses the word cackling, and only ever for evil characters) and twirling your moustache with some plan to take over the world or groveling before those who want to take over the world while secretly planning to backstab them yourself.
O livro tem ainda uma componente religiosa bastante vincada, e a personagem principal chega mesmo a ser alvo de uma aparição.Estamos perante um bom livro de aventuras, destinado claramente a um público mais jovem e que poderá não satisfazer por completo leitores mais adultos e que já leram muita coisa no campo da fantasia, sob pena de se ficar um pouco com a sensação de déjavu – foi isso que me aconteceu.
Words that describe this book: amazing, epic, awesome, great, epic, wonderful.
It has everything I could possibly hope for in a story: adventure, battles, great characters, quests, a bit of romance, and a grand plot.
In other words: I LOVE THIS BOOK.This book also contains one of my very favorite casts of characters.
<3 Toli is my absolute favorite character in this book.
I'm not even that much of a re-reader, but I never get tired of rereading this book.If you love medieval fantasy, a fun adventure, a cool Christian story, or just want to read something awesome, this is the book for you.
This book featured "clunky" writing and a rather heavy-handed religious subtext, but in spite of those issues, I enjoyed the story of Quentin and his comrades in their quest to find and free the Dragon King.What I liked: The Jher, especially Toli, who accompanies Quentin and becomes both his servant and friend.
And the revelation at the end, that Bria is her daughter, the Princess--totally unbelievable.
(OK, Lawhead never says that Bria is the Eskevar & Alinea's daughter, but she is a Princess of the realm, which would imply that.)I liked the story well enough that I will definitely read the rest of the Dragon King trilogy.
I’m a big fan of Lawhead’s Science Fiction books, and so had big expectations for In the Hall of the Dragon King.
While it started out pretty good, I found it bogged down often throughout.
There were some good scenes that captured my interest, but there were many others that had my attention drifting.
This book has a similar flavor to The Wheel of Time by Robert Jordan, but without the complexity of plot development.
It’s also written with a Christian perspective.
Either way, this story did not meet my expectations.
That’s not to say it’s bad, in fact, for the right audience it may very well be a hit.
What an unexpected pleasure! A good plot, tight writing and great characters. I can wait to read the next one!
Quentin's gripping entry into the greater, broken world of the Dragon King is richly told in this riveting epic.
I can't remember how many times I've reread this book growing up, and consider it to be one of the best I've read.
I was fascinated by Lawhead's unique treatment of elves and others in this epic.
Although they are strong and independent, Lawhead sticks close to Quentin's budding appreciation and devotion to his queen, capturing the sense of an old world respect and honor toward women.
*happy sigh* An all time favorite.
In The Hall Of The Dragon King, is an excellent fantasy novel (book one in a series), by one of my favorite author's Stephen R.
Lawhead.
A complicated framework of religions, a variety of cultures, and interesting geopolitics makes for a fascinating read in a immersing world.
The dialogue was one of the book's greatest strengths, the characters were full-fleshed and fully developed, and the settings wonderfully vivid.
My greatest complainant with this book, is the poorly designed map in the beginning: which is visually confusing and lacks many of the places featured in the book.
This work by Lawhead is a intriguing, tantalizing start to the series.
The reading of this book was like tasting the Christmas cookies of my late grandmother - it brought me back to childhood, when fantasy was all about heroic quests, noble deeds and battle between Good and Evil. It is ideal for fans of series like "The Chronicles of Narnia" or "The Belgariad", tired of the cynicism of the genre today. You can read a detailed review, but in Bulgarian, here:http://citadelata.com/in-the-hall-of-...
Decent book. I wish characters had been bit more unique as many filled a slightly generic roll in bit of a stereotypical medieval novel. I may have appreciated this more of I read it before reading most of Lawheads other books as this seems a bit of a practice run compared to the Pendragon Cycle or Celtic Crusades.
If I had to choose one word to describe this whole series, I was say ''fresh''. It took me back to the simplicity of the fairytales I read when I was a child. Each character is multi-dimentional and deep and the plot is superb.
I liked it, because it had some strong Christian themes I identified with.
(But I am getting way ahead of the continuing story and I am strictly speculating.) At times it is a little preachy especially in terms of emphasizing that there is One God. It does not emphasize evangelizing.One of the areas I thought Lawhead was clumsy with is the development of consistent limitations on magic and miracles.
Early on, there is talk that a believer should do nothing in his own power but trust the One God, but then at the end, everyone, including Quentin, is pretty much doing things on their own.Mature themes: other than war battles limited to medieval technology plus magic, there are no mature themes.
Positive Elements:Toli points out that serving is not weakness; Durwin remarks that “Even in war, we must conduct ourselves in a manner worthy of men”; characters show loyalty.Cons:The necromancer’s plans and power are extremely creepy, and might frighten younger readers.Violence:A character is ambushed and wounded; it is mentioned that an enemy’s comrades were beheaded; characters are taken captive, and one is beaten; battle and carnage are semi-described; a character battles a snake.Spiritual Elements:Omens are mentioned; several different gods are referred to (and eventually proved to be false); the antagonist dabbles in the occult; the nameless god is referred to as the Most High and Creator of Life; a character summons the antagonist through a pyramid-like structure; one character observes, in reference to Matthew 6:24, that a man cannot serve two masters; a character meets and places his faith in the Most High; the antagonist puts himself in a trance; another character speaks of two paths, seemingly in reference to Matthew 7:13-14.Other:Wine is used to revive an injured knight.
Although I quite enjoyed this book, I have read things that are a lot better.
The writing style was excellent, and I enjoyed it at least, but I felt there were perhaps just a few too many characters.
I don't mind this much when the author puts 'he laughed' or 'he laughed maniacally' after the characters speech, but instead the laughing was part of his speaking lines, and this just looked rather odd in text.I did enjoy this book though, but not enough to want to read the other two in the series, as the storyline and characters just weren't interesting enough to make me want to read on.
What starts out as a cliché, slightly dull fantasy actually evolves into an entertaining and well-written novel (although still fairly cliché).
Boring exposition in the first half gives way to much more exciting and intriguing details, although the main character disappears slightly during the climax.
His character development, while interesting, is slightly unrealistic and dull, although the rest of the characters are interesting enough.
A well-executed and exciting climax (still cliché) is, unfortunately, followed up by a somewhat lame resolution, where the villain, living up to his unexciting and lethargic character, is put down almost as weak as movie-version Voldemort.
This book was decently enjoyable, as light travel companion. Lawhead's writing is good, but the plot left much to be desired. The story kicked off with a healthy dose of intrigue and complication, but ultimately wound down for a simple, and not particularly satisfying ending. A lot of build up which resulted in an anticlimax, and several things left unexplained. That said, I do plan to find another of Lawhead's books to read, because I enjoy his style of writing. However, I do not intend to go farther in this particular series.
The plot is predictable and frankly generic, the dialogue falls flat and honestly read more like a handful of teenagers doing a high fantasy LARP than anything.The Christian themes (I didn't even know Lawhead was classed as a Christian writer initially) are overdone and a tad gag inducing at times.The book was barely entertaining and the only reason I finished it was because I didn't have anything else on hand to listen to at work.
I liked the end. That’s all I’ll say. And I’m enjoying the second part of the series. I read on because it improved towards the end. Also to have a sense of completion. I love Stevie L’s writing mostly. His coming of age books are some of my favorites of all time. I would recommend his Byzantium and Patrick or Albion books rather. But glad I’m completing this series. Checking off the list of Lawhead literature. I’m a big Lawhead fan.
I read the whole series when I was about 10 or 11 and loved it. 9 years later and I still remember it, I see some comments on here saying it's too typical which, thinking back on the story, I can understand. However when I was 10 or 11 this was the best book I'd read. I even preferred it to the Harry Potter series. With the right audience this book is definitely a hit and it was for me.
I remember enjoying this more as a boy reading it. I wish I could give it a 3.5 score, as I feel it deserves a little more than 3. It was a good story, which likable characters. The writing was a bit stiff, but loosens up as the book goes on. I particularly enjoyed how the author addresses spirituality, clear without being heavy-handed. A good YA novel.,
I enjoyed reading this first booking the Dragon King Series. An enjoyable and easy read that held my attention and made me want to keep reading.This novel has a little bit of everything. War, adventure, quests, fantasy and even some political intrigue all woven in together to create a fantastical story line. I'm looking forward to reading the other two novels in this series.
