https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1442955.Shadow_The_Sheepdog
The book which got me addicted to reading- i must have read it at least 20 times and enjoy flipping pages thru it even now! also the book reponsible for my love for k9 tales! shadow, love u!
This is the first book I ever remember reading and I love it. I always wanted a dog because of this book. It's loveable and endearing and full of important messages for kids growing up. Shadow and the gang are the best. Fond memories.
Uma excelente história para a faixa etária para a qual foi escrita.
My Grand-parents gave me this book for Christmas, when I think I was about six or seven years old. My first ever to read by myself book, I loved it, so much that by the age of ten, I could repeat whole chapters off-by-heart.
I adored this book as a child and read it over and over again. It was one of mum's childhood favourites too. Enid Blyton at her best.
Feel good story about intelligent loyal English Sheepdog (like Lassie) and his sheep-farm boy owner Johnny. Shadow gets up to all sorts of adventures and incurs the jealousy of his fellow working dogs but continues to save Johnny from nasty gypsies and his bravery culminates in saving newborn lambs from vicious Golden Eagles which he kills thereby making this magnificent species extinct in England, incurring a £5,000 fine from the RSPB and being put down. Oh well c'est la vie. (only joking)
it not true what Missis Blighton said what we kilt the eagle no we never Shadow just find it with super strong nose show Johhny Johhny say let take eagle home it die natral corses dont care wot Orris Peaby say was true about gypsies mind Shadow see gypsy Shadow bite
My English Grandma gave me this book for my birthday in the 60's. I still have it. Very sweet story and helped me along the road to my love of reading. Nothing like getting lost in a book.
Wonderful book for kids, well-written and detailed with beautiful text and imagery. Shadow is a great canine character and Shadow's owner is easy for kids to relate to.
this was my first chapter book and i have read it many times. it never looses excitement and i will love it forever.
Childhood favorite. Read it a gazillion times and never tired of it.
My boys (6&3) absolutely loved this one! A 1952 version of the book was being passed around my wider family and all the nieces and nephews ended up talking like dogs when recounting the tales and adventures of Johnny and Shadow.It is a little dated (like most Enid Blighton books these days) but I am not sure why this one hasn't been re-printed like all the others.
I may turn 26 in just over a week, but I can still enjoy a good children’s story. This was my first time reading Shadow the Sheep Dog, I found it on a second-hand bookshelf at work and thought it was worth trying. Having read a number of Enid Blyton books growing up, this one was just as fun. Easy to read, full of adventure and a happy ending.
Remember being read this one at school. then I liked it so much that I went and bought it from a 2nd hand book shop. Was probably the first Blyton book I ever read.
I finished it this evening, so, at somewhere around about 52 years, it stands as the book that has taken me longest to read.
I would guess that it was written in a couple of weeks and that the drafting process was to Blyton unknown.The book is really a collection of (almost) stand alone stories.
They would have held my attention as a young boy growing up on a hill farm.
Life is hard, and sometimes unfair, but that is no reason not to respect your elders and betters.
This is a sweet story (as you might expect from Enid Blyton).
It only takes a few hours to read, too.It's from the point of view of Shadow, the sheep dog, for the most past, but occassionally from Johnny's too.
Shadow belongs to Johnny and they adore each other.To me, it seems like this is almost a collection of short stories, which are fitted together along a chronological timeline.
The stories (chapters) build on each other nicely, though the plot is rather *ahem* relaxed.
They will probably desperately want their own sheep dog after reading this!
It's a fun, cute, uplifting story with good values.
I read this as a kid and enjoyed it and now have a collie.
My daughter wanted to read it because it's about a dog, and she did love it at first, but grew tired of it just a few chapters before the end.
It's really interesting to see how Enid Blyton's books have aged.
We're currently in an age of children's literature which has almost gone too far the other way -- it's all about sickness and tragedy right now.
I purchased a old copy of this book, because I'm into Enid Blyton and I'm reading all of her books.
At first, I didn't like the idea of "talking animals", but then I started reading and I liked the book.
I was going by page 99 when it suddenly changed into 134.
It was a huge printing error.
I stoped reading and I decided to give this book four stars.
It's a shame, because this is the only spanish edition and it's old (there's no new printing since the 60s).Now I'm going to read some of the "Secret" series, also by Blyton.
The first 'book' I read, at age 9. Immensely thankful to Enid Blyton for introducing me to the world of books.The story is simple: a farm lad, Johnny finds a pup, a sheepdog that he is allowed to keep. He calls the pup 'Shadow' since it follows him everywhere. The book is about the adventures they have together as Shadow grows up into a handsome sheepdog.A light and easy read and a book that children will love.
I read this book as a child. It was loaned to me by a Scottish lady, who had named their sheep-dog after the title character. It was one of the books (along with Beautiful Joe & Black Beauty) that shaped my view of animals, my love for animals, and their care and protection. Would love to read it again sometime.
This was read so many times over when I was a child and held such strong memories for me, I decided to find a first edition for my collection. It was with some trepidation I re-read Shadow the Sheepdog as an adult though gladly it was misplaced. The story again captured my attention and had me transported to the farm where Johhny, Shadow and co reside.
A great introduction to chapter books, my young daughter picked this up in a second hand bookshop and read it from start to finish. Animals and their intelligent faithfulness have an important place in our life and thus deserve a place in our literature . Plus anything that encourages kids to read merits praise, good on you Enid, it may be 45 years on, but you still manage to endear!
This is my most cherished book on the bookshelf. I read it repeatedly as a youngster, and never failed to get totally immersed emotionally: falling in love with the characters, and crying along with their grief.This should be a must read for all young avid readers!
My favorite story as a child. It's been passed down from a couple generations and I'm sure it helped me to become an avid reader. I have a lot of wonderful memories of my dad reading this to me every night.
I read this book when I was younger and it's stayed with me my whole life,bi wan to read it again now that I'm all grown up but I'm scared it will change my memory of the story!
I absolutely adored this book as a small child. Obsessively so.
One of the first books I read independently. Never forgot it. It was the start of my reading journey.
i read it when i was about ten. i loved it.
One of my favourite books as I was growing up. I read it countless times!
Love this book! read it as a small child in fact it was the very first one I read all the way through and it gave me a hunger for reading.
