https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425123.Gone_Baby_Gone
Each day in this country, twenty-three hundred children are reported missing. Kenzie and Angie don't really want to take this case. A missing four year old girl that was taken from her home, while her drugged out mom is supposedly next door at her friend's house watching tv. The mom did not even lock the door. She was in such a hurry that she just left it open. With her child inside.I didn't want to find Amanda McCready. I wanted someone else to.But maybe because I'd become as caught up in this
A missing four year old girl that was taken from her home, while her drugged out mom is supposedly next door at her friend's house watching tv.
I wanted someone else to.But maybe because I'd become as caught up in this case over the last few days as the rest of the city, or maybe because it had happened here in my neighborhood, or maybe just because "four-year-old" and "missing" aren't words that should go together in the same sentence.They do end up taking the case and team up with a couple of cops that are on the case.
But Patrick and Angie work with the local missing child unit, bringing in their regular cast of colorful associates to lend their able and sometimes bloody hands.
Casey Affleck as Patrick Kenzie and Michelle Monaghan as Angie Gennaro VERY LARGE(view spoiler)[Ultimately, it turns out that the missing child cops are involved in taking children from problem homes and placing them with discrete families (including their own) where the children can be raised with love and a decent level of material comfort.
This creates issues as Patrick must decide whether to turn in the criminal cops when doing so will mean that children at risk will be returned to awful birth-parents.
Were you really expecting a happy ending?”Yes, I knew it was probably going to be a depressing story, but while I had braced myself for all kinds of terrible things happening to kids (and terrible things do happen), I wasn’t ready for the more banal cruelty and neglect that Lehane sprinkled the book with in regards to how some people treat their children.Amanda’s mother, Helene, is a barfly and small-time doper who doesn’t do anything really bad enough to technically qualify as abuse, but Amanda was usually left to entertain herself in front of the TV.
Amanda's aunt request Petrik and Angie to look for the child.
Patrick and Angie found a big clue about the girl's disappearance but things instead of solving gets messier and scarier.
I found third book in the series to be average but Lehane bounced back superbly and gave us this tightly knit thriller.After completing a book in this series I say to myself, "now you know these two like the back of your hand." but Lehane always proves me wrong and showed me a new side of Patrick and Angie, it's like he is peeling layer after layer in each book.
Posted at Shelf Inflicted I knew this was going to be a very dark story.
I was wrong.Though Patrick and Angie are tired of the violence and inhumanity that plagued their earlier cases, they agree to accept this latest case of a four-year-old girl who was abducted from her bed.
With the help of two detectives in the Boston Police Department who believe in their own brand of justice, the denizens of their rough Dorchester neighborhood, and of course, Bubba, Patrick and Angie plunge headlong into one of their most difficult, complex, and emotional cases, confronting bad parenting, child abuse, pedophilia, and murder.
“Hello, darkness my old friend…”Having read The Grapes of Wrath earlier this year, I didn’t think another book could top it for sheer despair.
It’s as if at the end of the book the Joad’s drove their truck to the local abattoir and let loose on their frustrations.The book centers on an abduction of a four year old and the involvement of Dennis Lehane’s private investigator duo, Kenzie and Gennaro, in the attempt to recover the child.
It’s a journey that takes the reader straight down the dark coal shoot into the blackest abyss.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “Even if MY world is okay, THE world is still a pile of evil shit.”  (Wrong movie - spot-on quote. Also, doesn’t Matt Damon have the most punchable face in all the world? The correct answer is yes. Yes he does.)This was a buddy read with my pal The Jeff, but I can’t wait any longer for his slow ass to finish so my review is going up now ; )In all seriousness, words can’t express how thankful I am that I buddied up with The Jeff for t
And while I don’t find Battfleck as punchable as Matt Damon, I’m not a huge fan of his acting inability.
Yeah, Jeff does too.)I’m obviously not going to tell you who the bad guy is, any twists and turns, or how things play out.
And when things seem a little far-fetched or too hinky, just go with it and be prepared for a read that makes you question everything a lot of the opinions you hold about what is right and what is wrong.
Gone, Baby, Gone was like walking down the sidewalk to get the mail and somehow ending up in Paraguay.Gone, Baby, Gone is the most powerful Lehane book I've read yet.
Like Mrs. Kemper's husband  and I were discussing while I was reading, Angela and Patrick are much better people than Burke so the pieces of excrement they go up against while looking for a missing child seem that much more vile.Lehane's strength is in his characters and he writes them very well.
Patrick and Angela are the same people I've grown to know and love over the past few books.
In Lehane, the sense of pain and loss, especially of lost childhood friends, weighs heavily upon Patrick and Angie, and through them, on us.
This is the surface, the emotions we all share, but it's only the beginning of where Lehane wants to go.“Amanda McCready had been missing for at least sixty hours by this point, maybe as long as seventy, and I didn’t want to find her stuffed in a Dumpster somewhere, her hair matted with blood.
But the silence of a missing child is not something you want to get used to; you refuse to accept it, and so it screams at you.“The silence of the dead says, Goodbye.
I must make a few confessions up front: 1: I saw the movie version of this title a long time ago and it was so good, I’ve always wanted to read the book, because, of course, the book is always better.
I was immensely curious how the book would differ from the movie, since Hollywood is notorious for taking liberties and on many occasions they flub the whole thing up.
This story stayed with me a long time and I still run the details over in mind on occasion, still feel sickened by what happened, and still feel conflicted by the decisions made.
“In the middle of the journey of our life I found myself within a dark woods where the straight way was lost.” - Inferno, DanteThese books crawl under my skin. I always feel brave and strong while reading them because I seem to stomach everything but oh, look at how dumb you are, Anna. They linger in me. My nightmares say it all. More than the what or the who or the how, the emotion flourishes deeper, digging into me and breaking my defenses. These books haunt me - I can't find another word rea
This complexity, always present in Dennis Lehane's book, is what make them so special in my heart.
Definitely Patrick and Angie, the heart of the series, with their sarcastic and badass moves (also, Bubba).
In the first half of Gone, Baby, Gone, it seemed to me that Patrick and Angie were only the shells of themselves.As a standalone, I can't deny that it was an incredible book through and through, even though I found the first half quite slow.
Yet it is not a standalone, but part of a series I LOVE, and during the first 50% I missed Patrick's quick mind and wit.
I just finished this book- like, literally, turned the final page, put it down, and am now writing. So, it's possible that I'm violating some rule of thumb akin to waiting two hours after you eat before swimming or not going to bed angry. However, there's a sort of queasy discomfort I have after finishing this fourth volume of the Kenzie & Gennaro corpus that might dissolve given enough lag time that I wanted to get down.Lehane has left me with the disquieting malaise of a  wicked problem .
I just finished this book- like, literally, turned the final page, put it down, and am now writing.
However, there's a sort of queasy discomfort I have after finishing this fourth volume of the Kenzie & Gennaro corpus that might dissolve given enough lag time that I wanted to get down.Lehane has left me with the disquieting malaise of a 
wicked problem
. Wicked problems are defined (in part) by their lack of definitive solution.
And, at least for me, uncertainty is not a favorite feeling.
This book, of course, is not a discourse in moral philosophy.
If nothing more, this one will definitely make you feel something, but it will likely be a something you can't quite pin down.
*4.5 stars*   Love like that? Hell. It seems so pure, it's damn near criminal.  Soooo....I've missed my Angie and Patrick, I'm not guna lie. So when I got the empty feelings one usually gets after finishing a fantastic book and not knowing what to read, I started to get an ache that couldn't be filled by anything other than a beautifully flawed and tortured detective and his snarky partner in crime. See, there are only 6 books and I decided to break them up so I didn't lose them all at once....I
I don't know what I could say that hasn't already been said on my part, but I feel like this story deserves a review, ya know?
But, in many ways, it's hard to review multiple stories pertaining to one series, and even harder when you hit one in the series that just....isn't as good.
But after the excellence of Darkness, Take My Hand and Sacred, this story fell flat for me.
It might come as a shock to y'all that this book is one of my least favorites...well, the story just didn't compare.Review to come.
“When I was young, I asked my priest how to get to heaven and still protect yourself from all the evil in the world. He told me what God told His children; 'You are sheep among wolves, be wise as the serpent, yet innocent as doves.'”  This is by far the best installment in Dennis Lehane's great series following inner city Boston private detectives Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro (with Darkness, Take My Hand being a close second). And the VERY BEST detective novel I've read so far. I know tha
This is by far the best installment in Dennis Lehane's great series following inner city Boston private detectives Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro (with Darkness, Take My Hand being a close second).
And the VERY BEST detective novel I've read so far.
When a novel in such a crowded and cliché-ridden field as the detective genre can leave you so affected, that book is truly something special.
All of this helps to rank this book as one of the best novels in modern crime fiction, right up there on my list with Clockers, A Simple Plan, The 25th Hour, and the author's other masterwork, Mystic River.
Unfortunately for them, when young Amanda McCready goes missing, Amanda’s grieving Aunt and Uncle are persistent in their requests for the detectives’ help.Patrick and Angie aren’t sure they’ll be able to offer much up in the way of help.
The foursome work together to turn Boston upside down.If you thought Darkness, Take My Hand was a tough read, Gone Baby Gone will rip your heart out.
Patrick and Angie are put through the proverbial thresher, their lives and relationships come under unbelievable strain as they desperately try to recover the missing girl.
Mystery, Crime & Thriller - Sept. 2017 Group Read Aunt Beatrice & Uncle Lionel hire Patrick Kenzie & Angie Gennaro to find their niece Amanda(4). They say Helene(Amanda's mom) leaves her alone almost every night - "Gone, Baby, Gone". Lt.Jack Doyle says his Boston Police detectives are enough help.Patrick/Angie & Det.Remy begin search. Lionel tells them he heard Helene & "Skinny" Ray talk about a NH $200,000 "Drug" money run for "Chesse" Olamon. Helene says she saw Kimmie/Wee
Lt.Jack Doyle says his Boston Police detectives are enough help.Patrick/Angie & Det.Remy begin search.
Lionel tells them he heard Helene & "Skinny" Ray talk about a NH $200,000 "Drug" money run for "Chesse" Olamon.
Helene says she saw Kimmie/WeeDavid were together on the "kidnap" night.
Money is found behind Kimmie/WeeDavid's.
Money & Amanda not found, she is now pronounced dead.
Jack Doyle resigned running a department dedicated to children.The ending could have been better.
Det.Remy, Lionel & Doyle wanted a better life for Amanda.
Did a "kidnap" setup get them $200,000 to split & Amanda a better life?
In Gone, Baby, Gone you really get a taste of darkness and an overdose of evil.
I finished the book a couple of weeks ago, but this was a book that actually was so awful to read, the first Lehane book I had to read in phases, not right through because it was sometimes too awful to read.
Sometimes dwelling in darkness isn't that nice and after Gone, Baby, Gone I just wanted to read easy things and watch fun things on TV.Rating the book was also hard.
I found the book too dark and disturbing for my taste.
It will certainly make me smile watching someone grow deeper into despair reading it.
Mwhahaha!Whilst the subject matter, child kidnapping and peodophiles, makes for less than comfortable reading this book is top notch with great writing and great characters.
If you have read the previous books then there is no need to persuade you to read this as no doubt you are hooked.
If you haven't started this series yet then definitely pick this up.If you like/enjoyed this try:  Seriously, you need this!
WOW...what I ride Lehane takes the reader on through the seedy side of Boston.
This is a brutal story where nothing is black and white.
I did not know that this was part of a series, and being the fourth one I wish I had started at the beginning, though the story did not lose anything....except maybe in reference to some of the characters past.
Once I catch my breath and quit shuddering I may start with book one!
But for fans of hard hitting crime/suspense with steely characters this is the way to go.
This was a truly enjoyable thriller! Well written, non-conformist private detectives, villainous police officers, trustworthy criminals and above all a very good story. So, there you go, I found a new detective writer whose book I enjoyed immensely. Dennis Lehane, you acquired a new fan! I will read all his detective stories over the next years.
It’s the first time a thriller has made me cry.I mean, you don’t shed tears while reading these books, you read one then you read another one.
No, this one is going to haunt me for a long time, like all Dennis Lehane books do.
What is right and what is wrong and who gets to decide that, who is the better judge of all things good or bad in this world.Extremely thought provoking, emotionally stimulating with all the characteristics of a good thriller, this book deserves 5 stars without putting any thought.
I have just one more Kenzie & Gennaro book to read.
What I like about Lehane's books is not only his fantastic writing but also his ability to make a simple promise of a book into something that is hard to put down.
He's just using that because he does not know how to connect the dots without being cliche." I highly recommend Lehane's books.
I hope after Moonlight Mile he does more of Kenzie and Gennaro books.
I really like them and I hope he at least mentions them in some other books, just for shits and giggles.
I thought the opening was strong in this 'Kenzie & Gennaro' segment, and there was plenty of action and hard-edge scenarios to keep me turning pages in this crime/thriller, but there were too many strands in the web that held this plot together.
For those like me who are way behind the curve in this series, let me just give you this warning if you are thinking about wading in; there are some brutal details in these pages involving children.
Who was right, Kenzie, or Gennaro?
I've determined that pretty much every mystery/suspense/thriller/whatever book I read is going to land at three stars.
It takes a lot for these books to break through into the four star range, and I don't think any of them are ever five star caliber.
They're all fine authors, but all of them have a limit to how great they can be, and they all settle for a decent story that is enthralling at times but ultimately forgettable.
This story was just what I expected.
It may be time to leave this genre alone for a minute.
Gone Baby Gone is a great who-done-it story, but also very true to life, because the events that took place in this book could happen to anybody!Gone Baby Gone is about 2 Boston Private Investigators Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro, who are approached by the Aunt of 4 year old girl Amanda McCready, who had disappeared without a trace, and whose Mother is heavy into drugs and alcohol.
Kenzie and Gennaro accept the case and set out to solve the dark mystery behind Amanda's disappearance.I do know that Gone Baby Gone is part of a series, book #4, I've read the first book 
Lehane's Kenzie and Gennaro series is best described as being in the Noir series of detectives (I am reminded of Andrew Vacchs as another excellent member of this genre).
At least, not after you've read Lehane.As my other reviews attest, I'm interested in the lone hero in novels (series only, please), an interest awakened by the Jack Reacher novels of Lee Child and Coben's Myron Bolitar series as well as other excellent novelists (see my other reviews).
Lehane takes this a step further and presents us with a three way split from Jack Reacher: Gennaro (the good), Kenzie (the good mixed with propensity for violence), and Bubba (our favorite sociopath).When it comes to Noir, you can't get any better than Dennis Lehane.
Wonderful writing, but the subject matter and ending were depressing and dark.I’ve read three Lehane books.
All three of them have horrible things happening to children: a father prostituting his son, pedophiles kidnaping and torturing children, drug addicted mothers ignoring and neglecting children.
This book has pedophiles torturing children and disgustingly neglectful mothers.The mystery was solved, but the end was depressing.
The novel is about injustice, the poor, drug users, race and similar problems.I love Lehane’s writing - the way he describes scenes, people, clothes, emotions, smells, - and his dialogue.
this is the Boston of Dennis Lehane, populated by tough guys, lost souls, and heartbreak.
This is the Boston of Patrick Kenzie, flawed hero of several previous Lehane novels.
This is the first Lehane novel I read, and I found it compelling, if not enjoyable.
Kenzie's primary character trait is his nobility - it compels to continue investigating the crime, even though he has several opportunites, and even more reasons, to drop it.
Lehane seeks to question fundamental notions of right and wrong, and he does it in a profoundly disturbing fashion.
Who has the right to determine the answer to that question?
Brilliant, shocking, and disturbing, this suspense thriller is the embodiment of crime and evil. Lehane exposes the darkest streets of Boston, and examines the most heinous of crimes. Well written and dreadfully graphic, Lehane forces the reader to examine relevant questions both morally and legally. Through first person point of view, we see the world through the narrator's eyes, and he leads us into areas of discomfort, love, and tenderness. Patrick is a dichotomy of street kid and choir boy who wrestles with good and evil, but never wavers.
I was told by a friend that Lehane was a good author and I should try him.
Based on this I won't rush to read more.
For me there are plenty of authors writing now on either side of the Atlantic that offer far better.
It feels like the kind of book I would have read 25 years ago - not unreasonable as it was published then.
I worked the story out before the end and the female PI does feel a bit "token".
Not bad but there are plenty of books I want to read that appeal more.
