https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17991738-a-handbook-for-the-perfect-adventurer
A little superb book by the great French 'unknown' writer Pierre Mac Orlan.
"Unknown' to English reading citizens because this may be the only book of his that is translated into English.
Mac Orlan is the ultimate figure in French literature that captures the lifestyle of a romantic writer who lived a great adventuresome life.
Nevertheless he was commissioned by the great Blaise Cendrars in 1920 to write a handbook for writers who want to either have adventure or more likely write an adventure narrative.
The passive fellow or gal are more likely the readers, who want to read the exploits of the active adventurer.
Una pequeña delicia este manual breve, lleno de ironía, que puede leerse como una auténtica Poética de la narración de aventuras en la que los personajes cobran vida y los autores (aventureros pasivos) se convierten a su vez en auténticos personajes.
There’s endnotes explaining each now-obscure point of reference or writer that contains nearly as many words as the main text itself!Mac Orlan defines two different sorts of adventurers:The active adventurer — The person (always a man, women are set pieces — more on this later) who goes off and has some adventure somewhere.
Their defining features are their voracious appetite for reading, their parasitic relationship to the active adventure, and their desire to put it all into writing.Mac Orlan praises the passive adventurer as one who can write tales about lands he has never been to, who lives by reading and finds all the “research” he may need by familiarity with the great writers of his time (or, again, The Tavern).
Primarily, albeit not exclusively, since it somehow manages to read like three books simultaneously: a reader's and/or writer's company to adventure novels by which, I mean, in the Robert Louis Stevenson sense of the word; an authentic, if not earnest, field guide; and, lastly, a tongue-in-check lampoon of the preceding, two books.
That is, of course, in spite of previously seeing Port of Shadows, the 1938 film adaptation of his novel "Quai des Brumes" directed by Marcel Carné of Children of Paradise (1945) fame.
Dissacrante, talvolta cinico manualetto che a tratti dipinge l'avventura in un modo che, alla lontana, mi ha ricordato l'intreccio ariostesco."Orlan scrutò la vita con gli occhi mestamente divertiti di chi, fuori dalla mischia, ne conosce fin troppo bene l'inenarrabile volgarità. E, soprattutto, restituì alla letteratura uno dei suoi sensi più preziosi: quello di essere, prima di ogni altra cosa, un'avventura pericolosamente ludica."
I loved reading this satirical take-d0wn of travel and adventure while traveling through Colombia. Some of the language/references tripped me up and I had to read a few pages multiple times but it's a quick read. It was a fun foil to the real-world adventure I was on.
3'5 estrellas.
La verdad es que es un libro que me sorprendió un montón.Pequeño y grande a la vez. De estos libros que te enseñan con poco y agradeces mucho.Mi reseña en mi blog:http://www.donnaquejica.com/2017/07/o...
una sorta di piccolo manuale sul mondo dell'avventura che in poche pagine riesce a fare a pezzi tanto un genere letterario quanto i suoi lettori, il tutto intriso però di una certa complicità e di parecchia conoscenza della materia. non è un libretto imperdibile, ma regala un'oretta di sorrisi, qualche nome da appuntarsi per riscoprirlo e poi lo si mette via pensando prima o poi di rileggerlo: non è poco...
I really appreciated this short handbook on "The Perfect Adventurer," although I walked away convinced that there is not actually a perfect adventurer. You can see my thoughts on my blog. https://jackofallbooks.wordpress.com/...
Great little book on literary adventurism and the art of cultivating the imagination necessary to write.
7/10
Delightful little book; people on the bus were staring at me because I kept laughing.In the best traditions of freeform French inquiry. Read alongside Eco on popular literature.
