https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29806.The_Pilgrim_s_Regress
Many people are confused about the word "regress," especially since it mirrors Bunyan's "The Pilgrim's Progress." Many people (myself included) are under the impression that the story is about a Christian backsliding in his faith.
However, there are many symbols in the book that are not quite as obvious, especially since they may reference philosophies that have fallen out of popularity since Lewis's time.
For this reason, I highly recommend that the reader find a companion book or website to reference while reading about the pilgrim's journey.
Many people (Lewis included) would say that the allegory has failed, because he intended to generalize about the journey from atheism to Christianity.
Excellent. Finished the audio version in February 2016. In the Afterword, Lewis apologizes for the book, an apology I refuse to accept. Just delightful.
This book described Lewis' conversion to Christianity using an allegory.
In the meanwhile, using John, Lewis tells us how he escaped the snares of various penny-ante yet at the time culturally respectable secular philosophies.The good:Lewis showed how Christianity rehabilitates Plato.
Lewis cuts that off at the pass:‘Your life has been saved all this day by crying out to something which you call bymany names, and you have said to yourself that you used metaphors.’‘Was I wrong, sir?’‘Perhaps not.
If it can answer when you call, then it can speak without your asking.
He wrote it shortly after he became a Christian and it is interesting in its insight into one man's conversion experience and also as a comparison to his later works.Inspired by John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, Lewis wrote his work as an allegory.
John and his parents walk with George to see the Steward.
Finally meeting the Landlord answers that question and also fulfills all of John's deepest longings, which is to be in intimate fellowship with Him.The conversations Lewis writes between a Spiritual pilgrim and every argument against seeking the Landlord makes the book a valuable read.
Actual Ratings: 3.25
This work is quite obscure and hard to follow, at least for my small brain (though he admits the obscurity himself in a later preface in this edition.)Lewis begins with hypocritical Puritan Christianity, and is merciless in his critique, replete with masks, badly told stories, and pious cliches.
He does what Van Til 20 years later called Christians to do: tear down every argument and philosophy opposed to Christ.
The difficulty is that I didn't recognize much of it, 60 years later and through Lewis' prism.
Neither reason, feeling, nor virtue alone will carry us to glory, but we do need all three.If you take it up, be ready for some tough sledding.
I loved this book!
It is clear that it was written with more than a knowledge but rather a deep understanding of "the search" and the many different viewpoints that one comes into contact with along the way.
If I were to liken it to something, and this may be a little strange but bear with me, it would remind me of a flower.
As you lean in to breath its fragrance, you find that you were never holding the flower but standing upon it.
But honestly, I enjoyed this book so much, I would love to read a commentary on it.
It is definitely a must-read for Lewis fans.As The Pilgrim's Regress is Lewis' first novel as a Christian, I am also surprised at how developed his understanding of the faith was, even in its infancy.
This books contains many of the same ideas that will be expressed more clearly in his future works like Mere Christianity and The Great Divorce.
It is not.I read the Wade Annotated Edition of this book.
The Annotated Edition does an excellent job of explaining these references.
John, the main character's, struggle with the various philosophies and philosophers of the world were so vivid and real that you cannot help but think "I have fought this same battle" as you are reading.
I imagine if I were better read in the philosophers which Lewis takes aim at I would have given the book 5 stars.
The reason for leaving the last star off is my own ignorance.Lewis, in the afterword which he wrote 10 years later, laments his own obscurity in the book, and I share that lament.
I was amazed at all the things he managed to pack into this simple literary device -- a little allegory that turned out to not be so little.So many philosophical movements, so many religions, so many emotions and character traits explored -- I loved seeing where John would go next and what pitfall he would discover.
Loved Lewis's note at the end, from the third edition, as well -- a beautiful exploration of his fascination with desire and its basis in Christianity.
I'll definitely be getting my hands on and re-reading this again some day, marking up the margins with notes.
I got a philosophical reference here and there but Lewis was so well versed in philosophy that I was left in the dust and forced back to the drawing board.
Anyone who has studied Lewis probably knows he started as an atheist and after much struggle became a Christian.
This book follows that process through an alagorical journey.Heavy going but still well worth it if you want to put in the time or already have the philosophical chops.C.S.Lewis,  Surprised by Joy: "A young man who wishes to remain a sound atheist cannot be too careful of his reading."
"[Mother Kirk's] empire is always crumbling. But it never quite crumbles: for as often as men become Pagans again, the Landlord again sends them pictures and stirs up sweet desire and so leads them back to Mother Kirk even as he led the actual Pagans long ago. There is, indeed, no other way."
This book is pretty much inaccessible to the general reader.
I enjoyed the aspects where Lewis interacts with the Enlightenment and various modern literary, philosophical, and psychological movements.
Still, this is not going to be a book that most people will enjoy.
I lost interest after John's conversion, and the "regress" (for which the book is named!) seemed to be almost an afterthought.
This book strikes me as primarily important for contextualizing Lewis's larger philosophy of nature and grace and giving the ideas in his other books a more explicit foundation.
It's clear that Lewis is something of a big-tent Anglican Protestant, somewhat perennialist but also definitively Augustinian.
An allegory of the author's intellectual journey6 December 2014 After I started reading this book for a second time I suddenly kicked myself for not reading Pilgrim's Progress beforehand because it is quite clear that the former book has heavily influenced this work. However, I have read it (a while ago) and are somewhat familiar with the story, so it wasn't that big of a mistake. Anyway, following the tradition of Pilgrim's Progress, Lewis sets out to write an allegorical spiritual journey whic
Anyway, following the tradition of Pilgrim's Progress, Lewis sets out to write an allegorical spiritual journey which, while based on his life, is not necessarily strictly following it (and there are a number of instances where the allegory diverges from his own experience).
Once again, like Surprised by Joy Lewis' journey is one through the intellectual sphere as the character John (no doubt taken from the writer of Pilgrim's Progress – John Bunyon) travels to seek the island that as a child gave him so much joy.
Pilgrim's Progress is an allegorical story of everyman's journey from becoming a Christian and the struggles that many face as they go on that journey.
Reading note:I recommend beginning with the Afterword. Your milage may vary, but in it Lewis addresses many of the concerns you may have with the book itself.Book note:Lewis allegorizes his own conversion experience in an attempt to generalize for a wider audience much of what he experienced being drawn to the faith. Cultural and intellectual commentary abounds, but I found the real beauty of the book in its portrayal of the Church, Baptism, and conversion.
Reason's riddles to the Giant are particularly clever, and even when some of the details of the allegory are unclear the overall pattern comes through well.The story is laced with fantasy tropes--the giant, dragons, dwarfs--but is not much like a fantasy adventure, more akin to its titular inspiration, Pilgrim's Progress (which I read some years ago).
The regress occurs because John spends most of the book running away from the Landlord's castle trying to reach the island, but the outcome of that would be a major spoiler.It is well worth reading if you have some knowledge of philosophical ideas of the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, and even without that it does a good job of illustrating the flaws with many of the errors that keep people from faith.
The Space Trilogy can be said to do the same but is even less allegorical than the Narnia Chronicles.Really good allegory, doesn't require a key to give it understanding.
If you're reading this for anything other than entertainment you'll find you probably need to do some work to understand the subtle nuances that Lewis conveys in his use of these maxims as well as some of the names which will not be so readily apparent to the casual reader.
For the fictional world that John (Lewis' author avatar) is from the albino like Pale Men and the beautiful Brown Girls are extremes that can lead one astray from the truth.I do think that, if in Heaven he is thinking it over now, he might have written it over again to avoid unfortunate implications that he didn't really believe.In general, if one can get over the wierdness of certain elements and realize that Lewis was a good man trying to make a point, and not at all any type of bad man, and can have patience with the very in your face allegory, one will greatly enjoy this book.Rating: 3 1/2 Stars.
The beginning of the Book is great however and allegorically speaking it was still good, the end was slow I felt like I really was on a regress with John.
I would like to point out that the seemingly "racist" attitude of C.S Lewis that many sense, is not racism at all.
In the Book the Pilgrims progress which C.S Lewis obviously read and fashioned this book after the hunter of Pilgrims is black; both Bunyan and Lewis understood the common folklore of the 14th century England was that the devil and Demons appeared as Black Folk.
John's was an instant hit and well Lewis's being his first book in atheist England was totally rejected.

This is a very meaningful story. I enjoyed it thoroughly and intend to read it again.
If you thought Narnia's allegory was a bit too subtle, then this is the book for you! Not Lewis' best, an opinion he himself shared
Normally what I love about C.S. Lewis is his ability to make "high-intellectual-ideas" accessible to even the likes of me.
But I don't think it would be fair to say that just because this book was out of my league in many ways, that it therefore wasn't good.
In fact, only one idea really rang out to me so clearly that is still firmly planted in my brain and that is that it is NOT the journey that matters but the destination.
However, I did sort of like the idea that once we have found the real destination of our journey that our days will be filled with singing!
Thought-provoking as ever, CS Lewis gets to the heart of what looking for meaning in life means, the sacrifices and the joys that finding your way entails and the nature and diversity of distractions you will likely meet before you find it.
The critiques here on Wisdom, Science, Reason, Sensibleness, Enlightenment (1 &2) all hit home.
My favourite quote is from a conversation with Mr Sensible: "Reason!
[..] She leads us from our true aim - joy, pleasure, ease, content, […] She is a fanatic who never learned from my master the golden mean and, being a mortal, to think mortal thoughts."
Much more readable than Pilgrim's Progress, though that is but weak praise.
John and his friend Vertue meet with such figures as Media Halfways, Neo-Angular, Savage, Drudge, the inhabitants of Zeitgeistheim, and Mother Kirk as they try to find the Island which John has been seeking his whole life, and make peace with being tenants of the Landlord."You may be sure the Landlord has brought you the shortest way: though I confess it would look an odd journey on a map." So that's worth bearing in mind.
First, it’s a companion to Bunyan, with the characters and settings updated to reflect the philosophical developments of the modern world.Second, it’s an allegorical retelling of Lewis’s own journey from popular realism to Idealism to Pantheism to Theism to Christianity - essentially a fictionalized version of Surprised by Joy.Third, in addition to being a defense of Reason and Christianity, it’s a defense of Romanticism. Along the way we get Lewis’s assessment of philosophical systems, especially the hard rigorism of the North and the porous subjectivism of the South.Finally, it delineates a compelling relationship between morality (Vertue) and faith (John).
I don' think I would have enjoyed this book without Downing's copious annotations explaining all Lewis' quotations, allusions, and connections with other of Lewis' works. That said, this is a wonderful allegory of Lewis\ philosophical journey to faith-- and what a journey!
A peculiar and layered book by C.S. Lewis, strongly annotated by David Downing in a beautiful edition.
Enjoyable but I do recommend reading this AFTER "Surprised by Joy" by C.S. Lewis and Bunyan's "Pilgrims Progress".
This was difficult to understand in audio. Of course, the language is easier than Bunyan's work, but the allegory is much harder to discern. This will demand a revisit later for more understanding. But, there are some good parts that are easy to understand.
