https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815891.The_Chinese_Bell_Murders
All looks calm in the apparently little, peaceful, beautiful walled northern town of Poo-yang, by the Great Canal as the new magistrate Judge Dee his three wives, numerous children, four cunning lieutenants Hoong Liang, Ma Joong, Chiago Tai , Tao Gan and loyal servants arrive there.
The abbot Spiritual Virtue, tries to bribe the honest judge with six heavy bars of gold and silver when Dee begins investigating the nervous monks, his lieutenants feel uneasy.
An old woman gives the tired Judge Dee, aged manuscripts, written by her Mrs. Liang, of the brutal crimes committed by Lin but are they genuine...
Excellent period mystery that draws on the Chinese detective story legacy and diplomat van Gulik's extensive scholarship.
Reading this book was like stepping into a time machine and travelling back in time to imperial China, so well realised is van Gulik's portrayal of the era.
Imagine a less vain Hercule Poirot with Holmes' brawling skills and you have a good idea of the character of Dee. Each mystery is brought to a satisfactory conclusion and much time is spent exploring the seedier sides of like in 7th century China.
Yes, I missed these completely.
All of these Judge Dee books written 70 years ago or more.
But I won't refrain from reading any I can presently find.This is Northern China in the 6th and 7th centuries and the Magistrate of the District is Judge Dee. The characterizations are spectacular and the nuance for the period and the context of the Chinese under the Confucian structures just phenomenal.
And yet every personality differs and has dozens of surfaces to moment and placement.Fairness!
Justice!
Judge Dee with his trusted mentor/assistant and his three main "lieutenants".
Very good and highly entertaining reads.
Admirers of Robert van Gulik's always delightful Judge Dee mysteries have another treat in store with The Chinese Bell Murders.
As in all Judge Dee novels, there are two more mysteries for Judge Dee to solve before the reader happily comes to the end: the case of a decades-long feud between two families who hail from Canton and some nefarious goings-on at a Buddhist temple.
Although in most Judge Dee novels the three mysteries are intertwined, in The Chinese Bell Murders, the mysteries stand alone and are solved consecutively.
Unlike most Judge Dee mysteries, The Chinese Bell Murders begins with an odd supernatural set-up.
It is the case throughout the series that when Dee comes to a new town, mysteries present themselves for him and his friends to solve.
In his first case, Judge Dee finds himself in the Poo-yang district.
There's more: it seems that there is some concern about certain Buddhist monks who are trying to swindle women who cannot get pregnant.
If they give money to the temple, the women will supposedly conceive.
No strand of the story is left undone; Dee's detection skills, along with the help of his group of friends, ensures that there will be no crime left unsolved whenever the magistrate comes into a new area.
I am unfamiliar with the history of Chinese detective novels (Actually, I was completely unaware China had a history of detective stories at all - Though come to think of it, why not?
Every society has crime, and sometimes there are mysteries that need solving.)I liked that there were 3 crimes solved in the book and that the timelines kind of overlapped.
I also really enjoyed Judge Dee's entourage - a little unsavory, but their motives are good.I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who likes police procedurals, but is feeling a little bored with novels about contemporary police detectives.
I loved van Gulik's elegant prose & the simple illustrations that were with this book. I found the construction of the book's plot a bit hard (there are actually 3 different crimes) but will be prepared for that if I read another book in this series.One criticism is that it would be very hard for the reader to solve the crime.
This is one of at least 4 books about Judge Dee, a magistrate in ancient China who moonlights as a detective when cases brought to him in the tribunal, or court, puzzle him and he can’t rule in good conscience.
The great distance in time and place make for interesting reading in this century.There was a real Judge Dee, Judge Dee-Jen Dijeh, who lived from 630 – 700 AD.
His 1950’s books are the result of his translations and although they are labeled “fiction,” they are based on Van Gulick's research.In this volume, Judge Dee looks into 3 cases.
Back in the 1980s, my mother read all Robert van Gulik's Judge Dee books and loved them.
I knew that, sooner or later, I would have to read at least one of them myself.
These cases are all about their ingenious mysteries, all about solving the puzzles.
I also appreciated the glimpse into the life and culture of 7th-century China.This is a series that I feel I can come back to once in a while when I'm in the mood for a "Just the facts, ma'am" mystery.
Even though I am a bone-deep character-driven reader, there is something to be said for occasionally solving a concise puzzle or two.
V jednom je dokonce (spoiler alert) pachatelem náhodný tulák - což je věc, která je tak proti všem detektivním zásadám, že je už vlastně neskutečně originální.
Ale ono to nevadí, protože na nějakých 150 stránkách jsou případy hned tři a do toho ještě spousta různých dalších detailů a popisů výslechů, mučení a poprav, takže na nějaké obří pátrání není čas.
Stojí to na tempu a atmosféře staré Číny, která tu (alespoň na neznalého evropana) funguje a působí poměrně věrohodně.
Ale čtyři knížky z té série mi na nějakou dobu úplně stačily, zase si dám oraz.
I really enjoyed this book, the first Judge Dee mystery I have read.
There is none of the artificially historical in the place of the characters, the mystery is paramount and the setting, both time and place, just add to the enjoyment.
Each of these interlinked mysteries is well plotted and enjoyable, everything is not what it seems at first and Judge Dee's intelligence and skill as he solves them makes them fun to read.
He is a great character, thoughtful and intelligent, and his companions and family are also beautiful drawn.
One of the best in the series. Judge Dee and his four assistants, Sergeant Hoong, Chiao Tao, Ma Joong, and Tao Gan, investigate three cases: a 20-year-old feud between two Cantonese families, a suspiciously wealthy Buddhist temple, and the murder of a young girl. Science fiction writers could learn a thing or two from how van Gulik subtly conveys to the reader how the world of ancient China works.
Excellent historical mystery. I couldn't put it down. Plenty of twists and turns and great puzzles solved by the magistrate with the evil-doers getting their just desserts.
Love the reasoning he uses to solve the crimes and the peek into life in 7th century China. Good character building.
This book is an amazing read! The way the plot is intricately woven around dynamic characters ought to be heralded as an example for mystery writers everywhere.
Have read 2 Judge Dee mysteries. The Chinese Bell Murders is the first of the series. Have really enjoyed both books!
So I was thrilled to discover, in my stack of pending mysteries, that I had a book starring 18th century Chinese Judge (and as a result, detective) Dee.Van Gulik, according to the preface in my book, began writing the Judge Dee stories, based on Tang dynasty historical figure/magistrate and statesman Di Renjie, to present Chinese-style detective novels that show the Chinese as they describe themselves in their own crime literature.
which seems suspicious, to say the least.I could figure out the temple story, but the judge's solutions to these challenges were ingenious.
The best of the three Judge Dee books read so far.
but not enough to make me stop reading ...I really enjoyed the stories in this book, and I did like that the author granted a glimpse into Judge Dee's personal life which made him much more "human".
I do like the cover art of my edition much better - the black and yellow artwork by the author himself is striking.
Of course, the mid-80s edition contains numerous illustrations by the author which add greatly to the books.
Re-reading the books after maybe 30 years is fun ...
Another nice book in this series.
By now the trend is familiar.
Judge Dee arrives in his latest post and is confronted with an immediate case where the culprit seems clear, but the Judge disagrees.
Along with this arrive 2 other cases.
Often the cases are interlinked.
They often involve a threat to the Empire.
His able lieutenants, instructed by the Judge, do a lot of digging and unearth evidence.
Judge Dee sees what other don't and is able to solve all 3 cases quickly.
I don't know much about ancient China, but the authors account is very interesting.
Cuốn này đọc hấp dẫn hơn Hoàng kim án hay Tứ bình phong. Chi tiết thú vị nhất là Địch công đã khôn khéo lùa 20 tên sư hổ mang ra cho nhân dân xử "hội đồng" khi biết mình sẽ không xử được chúng tội chết. Vụ Lâm Phiên cũng có kết cục khá bất ngờ.Tuy nhiên mô típ vẫn như các cuốn khác trong series này, một số chi tiết để phá án bị ẩn giấu. Từ vựng Hán Việt ít lạm dụng hơn Hoàng kim án nhưng vẫn còn.
This volume is my first exposure to the Judge Dee saga. Van Gulik's interpretation is a fast paced, slightly sordid mystery. Indeed, women seem to fare poorly in the world of Judge Dee, primarily portrayed for their sexuality. Criminals are mercilessly tortured and executed. However, the interplay between the Judge and his assistants, alongside the cultural richness of the ancient Chinese tribunal are interesting.
Είχα καιρό να διαβάσω άλλη μια περιπέτεια του δικαστή Τι και ομολογώ ότι μου είχε λείψει!Ειδικά η δεύτερη και η τρίτη ιστορία έχουν και αγωνία και συνωμοσίες και ο αναγνώστης περιμένει πώς και πώς την λύση των εγκλημάτων.Αυτό που μπορεί να σοκάρει λίγο τον αναγνώστη είναι η λεπτομερής περιγραφή της παραδειγματικής τιμωρίας των ενόχων (αποκεφαλισμός, διαμελισμός ενώ είναι ζωντανός κλπ), αλλά σύμφωνα και με τον συγγραφέα είναι κάτι πολύ συνηθισμένο στα αστυνομικά μυθιστορήματα της Κίνας.
I want this to be a movie.Maybe not live action.An animated movie would work fine.I want more!This is a genre of book I had not heard ofChinese Detective Story But not as in a Charlie Chan waybut in actual ancient China.
A Judge Dee mystery - good one with 3 different problems that he solves. Enjoy his 4 assistants and their antics. Looking forward to reading them all (again).
Dee and his assistants get into yet another tricky batch of cases. I like how Dee get smarter over the course of the series.
Mình rất thích tác phẩm này trong series. Địch Công xử lý vụ việc rất có tình , suy xét nhiều mặt của vấn đề. Tác phẩm điển hình dòng trinh thám cổ điển quan án.
Another fine example of the ingenuity of Judge Dee and his extraordinary ability of analysis and deduction. And an unexpected insight in the end...
3.5 STARS OUT OF FIVE
Truyện hay, hấp dẫn. Quyển này dịch tốt hơn nhiều so với Hoàng Kim Án.
The story tells us of the adventures and rulings of Judge Dee in the early days overseeing the tribunal of Poo-yang.
While he and his assistants search for clues to the real murderer, he also finds himself faced with rumors that the monks who inhabit the Buddhist Temple of Boundless Mercy, run by an abbot by the name of "Spiritual Virtue," may not be as virtuous as they seem.
Judge Dee is an interesting character and I do like the way he reasons--and doesn't accept everything at face value, but I don't think this is a series that I could read a whole lot of.
