https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/217046.Diary_of_a_Mad_Housewife
I don't want to ruin it, though this isn't really that kind of book, but basically, everything just gets tied up in a far too terrific way.
Bettina and her husband have been in a silent, seething fight for months, the kind of fight that encompases their entire lives, really, where neither would even consider backing down, because it would be anathema to even think that they might be at fault.
Not that I think he was wrong to do so (obvs, the book is from Bettina's POV, so we're likely going to side with her), but it's almost too wonderful to have him go through such a change of heart like that.
4,5 estrellas
She has a degree from Smith College and two daughters who can be quite spoiled and condescending (that's dad's influence.) And having given up on life as an artist and spending her post-college single youth working as a secretary, she's expected to become a housewife and hostess until the end of her days.
But never trust a man who refers to women as "broads,” ladies.) If you've seen the great movie adaptation of this (which I watched originally in college because my love Frank Langella was in it as the above-mentioned shit heel), you'll see this book was faithfully adapted.
La protagonista es Tina Balser, una ama de casa del Manhattan de los años 60 que, como se suele decir, aparentemente lo tiene todo: un marido que es un abogado de éxito, dos hijas bonitas que son unas buenas alumnas en la escuela cara y elitista a la que asisten, y un piso céntrico y amplio, decorado con gusto y equipado con todas las comodidades.
This is the kind of book that I have always envied for its style which I could never pull off.
My best description would be "controlled stream of consciousness." This story (published in 1967) of a housewife resisting the razor's edge of debilitating anxiety as she goes throughout her daily life is definitely not loosely written.
I was fascinated that (and this is not a spoiler), she became a housewife after living a relatively loose single girl's life because it was seen as a kind of "cure" by her family.
would say more, but that would definitely be a spoiler :)
This book is hysterical. I have read it a half a dozen times and it just gets better as I get older.
Μια μέση νοικοκυρά της δεκαετίας του '60,καταρρέει ψυχολογικά και αποφασίζει να ξεκινήσει ένα ημερολ
Take one part The Group, two parts Bell Jar, a half portion of voyeurism, a dash of bitters, and you have Diary of a Mad Housewife.
Set in the late 60s/early 70s, the novel consists of the secretly scribbled thoughts of Tina, an artist who destroyed her paintings and sought marriage after a nervous breakdown.
The tale stretches over roughly a six month period in the middle of her marriage to a successful and self-centered lawyer in the Upper West Side.
While the story is a bit dated, there's still enough truth in Tina's challenges (and in the asinine behavior of her husband) to make it somewhat relevant for today.
Buen retrato de una época, del matrimonio, de la sociedad en la que se mueve la protagonista (negocios, servicio, hijos perfectos, casa perfecta, esposa perfecta...).
Tina se presenta como una mujer que despierta de todo eso, una mujer que en un momento determinado tuvo inquietudes y ciertos problemas también.
A lo largo de la novela nos cuenta su día a día.
Sin embargo, no he conectado con ella ni con sus problemas o inquietudes.
Para mí es una novela que recomiendo por el retrato que hace y espero que otro conecte más que yo.Pese a todo agradezco el haberla leído.
it was, instead, to my mind, a detailed account of descent by a woman untreated for a strong anxiety disorder, whow as self medicating with various forms of drug/experiences, including her journaling, valium like pills, various psychoanalytical counseling sessions (previous, by an obviously mysonigistic counselor, who figured the way to fix her depression was for her to get married and have children.
Having, of course, better morals and a non social climbing mysoginistic husband, I did not, of course, resort to an affair, nor would ever, but Bettina is so isolated, both from her radically changed spouse, her children, her "friends" who are really backbiting associates, and even from any spiritual side she might have one had, that she felt there was nowhere else to turn.
DIARY OF A MAD HOUSEWIFE by Sue Kaufman (1967) is the novel on which the 1970 film is based.
(My husband graduated high school in 1967; I did in 1970 when we saw and loved the film, which is terrific but not available on DVD.) Betinna Balser, called "teen" by her husband, a disappointed liberal-turned frantic capitalist, begins a secret diary as a means of hanging on to the shreds of her sanity in this domestic comedy.
I regret it's taken me this long to discover the novel, which is, of course, even better than the film.
The film's ending is probably more realistic, but the novel is satisfying and both are wickedly funny.
Unfortunately all that I want to say about it will spoil the story for anyone interested.
It kind of touched on a lot of different emotional responses to the characters.
First, you want to yell at the main character for being a bit of a spoiled brat.
He, and the society they keep, are phony and she is responding feeling out of control of herself and her life (which she kind of is as she's not working, etc).
It was a lot more interesting a story than I thought it would be.
I read this a very long time ago, but recently started flipping through the pages, and recognized the writing like I had read it just yesterday. I like Kaufman's understated style. She allows the characters to speak for themselves and lets the story unfold in an unforced progression of events. There's a lot of substance to this novel.
I adore this book. Some interesting stylistic tics including ironic capitalizations that I didn't see again until bloggery. Written in the 60s, it's surprisingly undated. Pries the dirty tobacco tin lid off marriage and contempt in an amusing way.
Although this book is considered widely to be "feminist" literature, I think the plight of the main character will resonate with any reader who has ever felt trapped, bored, humiliated or lonely, anybody who has ever searched for the extraordinary of the ordinary.
The book was published in 1967, right before feminism would go mainstream and save a lot of (upper middle-class white) women from Bettina's fate, so everyone keep that in mind before passing all kinds of 2018-era judgements, ok?
(If there's one thing that makes me nuts it's people who don't take the era in which books, films, etc were created into consideration/context when reading them in the here-and-now.) Sue Kaufman was a fine and funny writer and I thoroughly enjoyed my second go-round with this, her third novel.
Me ha gustado, aunque los personajes no han terminado de convencerme. Jonathan me cae rematadamente mal, no hay por dónde cogerlo; Tina no tanto, pero tampoco me cae especialmente bien, tiene sus momentos. Lo mismo me pasa con George. Y los demás... pues bueno, sin más. Pese a ello, me quedo con buen recuerdo del libro, la historia me ha parecido buena. Y la vuelta de tuerca del final, aunque me resulta un poco increíble en algún aspecto, me parece que es muy buena.
I really enjoyed this book, even though I was disappointed that it started out focused on mental illness then it kind of steered away from that and was more about real life struggles. I feel like it was misleading in the beginning. However, I like where the author ended up taking the story and how it explored the way human relationships affect each other and influence opinions, perspectives, and self image. Enjoyable read!
I'm in awe that a book can feel so distinctly vintage, and yet feel so timeless.
Maybe it's because a lot of what Tina deals with still hangs around in the present day, 50 years later.
While the first half is a little slow, the pace picks up considerably and, by the midway point, I couldn't put this book down.
It makes me wonder what happened to Tina & Jonathan, as well as their daughters.
(I could give my left arm to read the journal entries of Silvie or Liz, 20 years later.)
A la pobre Tina le limaron los colmillos. Pero la prosa de Kaufman lo compensa. Más afilada que una navaja suiza. Y con un... eso que los angloparlantes llaman timing para la comedia extraordinario.
Na altura deve ter sido uma pedrada no charco: uma dona de casa de classe média alta transtorna-se com a sua vida vazia.
Mais uma vez me espanto com o tipo de vida que permitia (e permite, penso eu) vidas tão «vazias» de sentido, mas contraponho e pergunto-me se não é uma questão de gosto.
Afinal, até parece que a minha vida é super cheia de sentido e maravilhosa, o que não é.
Menos dinheiro, mais preocupações (embora não muito grandes) e uma sensação de tédio gigante, que me levam a compreender perfeitamente esta protagonista.
Ela é tudo menos dona de casa no sentido que lhe damos...
Proto-feminist classic.
Bettina Balser, née Munvies, is a middle class mother on Central Park West.
Her husband is a lawyer and a hopeless social climber.
She is very depressed and just barely holding it together with booze, nembutal, and an extra-marital affair.
It's a very accurate portrayal of depression, but sometimes I had a hard time feeling as sorry for her as I might otherwise because they have a maid and people who come in to do the laundry and caterers and live on fucking Central Park West fer chrissakes.
But all that obviously doesn't make debilitating depression much easier.
La protagonista está harta de no tener la vida que realmente desea y no poder disfrutar de lo que hace.
Todo el mundo alguna vez en la vida dice: ¿Por qué estoy haciendo esto si no es lo que quiero?
En el caso de esta ama de casa le lleva casi a la locura.
O sin el casi...
La historia está contada con mucho sentido del humor pero no deja de ser un tema frustrante.
Usa mucho el sarcasmo para burlarse y quitar importancia al estado de nervios de la protagonista.
Lifelong fave
Kdyby Sue Kaufmanová přidala více komických situací, mohl vzniknout čistě humoristický román, kdyby však ubrala ze své ironie a vtipu, vzniknul by vážný román o manželce, která balancuje nad propastí deprese.
Sue Kaufmanová však namíchala z obojího trochu, takže s Tinou budete místy soucítit, ale také se zasmějete jejímu břitkému a pohotovému humoru.
Chvílemi jsem přemýšlela, jestli se dá tato kniha vnímat i jako nějaká feministická zpověď, ale nemyslím si, že by ji Sue Kaufmanová takto zamýšlela.
Hlavní hrdinka je jako i sám příběh nejednoznačná, čemuž odpovídá i závěr, který jako by implikoval, že žádný z nás není tak úplně bez bázně a hany.
Il commento finale a questo libro è positivo: mi aspettavo qualcosa di totalmente diverso, più alla Kinsella o alla Fielding, invece mi son ritrovata a leggere un libro scritto sì in maniera leggera e divertente, ma dai risvolti molto più seri di quanto si penserebbe.
La storia di Teena è quella di una donna alle prese con un marito distratto e esigente, con due figlie a cui badare e con tutto lo stress che deriva dalla vita mondana a cui lo status del marito la costringe a partecipare.
Questo le porterà una serie di nevrosi e crisi dalla quale riuscirà a uscire, lentamente, ma con grande forza.
This is a well written classic which gave readers insight into the mind of well educated housewives.
Readers can easily surmise that this book was written in a completely different time.
Kaufman still superbly captures the worries and inner world of Bettina Balser.
Bettina's family of origin and brush with mental illness provided context and insight into her current mental state.
Bettina is a wealthy housewife who is thrust into a world of pretentious artists and celebrities by her husband.
Take some time to view the film adaptation so that comparisons to the book can be made.
Another one I read like 185 years ago.
I was probably 17 or 18 at the most and I wonder how much of it just went over my head.
Not that it's a complex read -- it's just, how much can a Midwestern Gen X teenage girl in the late 80s/early 90s understand about a social climbing upper-class middle-aged Manhattan housewife and mom in the 60s?
I think I read it and my assessment afterwards was along the lines of "Oh." I think at that age, I was probably disappointed the book wasn't more sleazy and tawdry than its title and book cover promised.
“Lo que eres y no deberías ser es tan dura contigo misma.”Me es imposible imaginar a alguien leyendo este libro, y no gustar de él en lo más mínimo. Sé exactamente que es lo que lo hace tan maravilloso: Teen y su forma de narrar lo que es una vida aparentemente ordinaria, con su humor tan ácido y su mente trabajando 24/7. Su alma tan libre y su explosiva personalidad. Ha resultado en un personaje, a su manera, encantador y cautivante. Lo que de verdad sería imposible es conocerla y no quererla.
So many of the things that drive me crazy now, drove Bettina crazy then. The difference is, she had to just suck it up and live with most of it. I don't. Thank goodness I was born in the 1970s. We still have a long way to go, but I have my own career, I have my own money and I have my own life. Marriage is great, but it's a partnership. At least in my part of the world, women are (for the most part) no longer chattel. This one got me fired up!
