https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/855914.The_Blue_Hills
This is a re-reading of one of the Torminster trilogy about Henrietta & Hugh Anthony who live with their grandparents in the cathedral close.
Most of the events take place on a single summer day when a large party leaves to go on a picnic to celebrate Hugh Anthony's birthday.
This dreaming day is one when nearly all the invited guests have adventures, explore secret places & find out about themselves & others.
It wouldn't do for me not to read at least one Elizabeth Goudge book this year.
It's a book about the very young and the very old, and having a good and humble heart.
As always with Goudge's novels, Henrietta's House tells a layered story where the plot and many of the characters have a double or sometimes triple meaning and function.
For example, Henrietta is herself, a sweet little girl in the early 1900s, but she also takes on the role of the little girls in fairy tales in this "modern-day, real-life" fairy tale.
I loved this book! I had no idea of what it would be like, as it was another one off my shelves. It is a magical tale of two children and a number of adults - adventures and the way they change. It is thoughtful, gently humorous, and very satisfying. Maybe it is a children's book - but it is one I'll keep and reread.
I remember descriptions, the sense of place, even 'see' faces as described (the illustrations in my tattered 1972 British paperback are nice, but the words really brought the faces and settings to life).
It could be nowhere else than Edwardian England, but the history, famous places, or institutions are never mentioned, this is a quiet backwater.
It reminded me somewhat of A Midsummer's Night's Dream -- but the dream is on a warm summer afternoon, with that golden haze and the sense of time slowing down for a while.A book that could be enjoyed -- loved -- at any age.
After reading the first sentence in this book--"Once upon a time there was a railway station waiting for a train"--I knew this was going to be a delightful story. Just the unique way Miss Goudge words a simple opening scene brings the reader into a world of whimsy--a wondrous weaving of reality with fine rainbow threads of fantasy. My favorite characters in the book, Grandfather, the Old Man, and Henrietta, all exhibit a child-like vision which endears them to me and keeps the story worthy of thoughtful sighs.
one of the most sweetest and joyous reads i have ever read. this is a dream book for me!
unadulterated joy!
The Water Babies and Alice in Wonderland, Undine and The Pilgrim's Progress, Jackanapes and Little Women, The Fairchild Family and A Flat Iron for a Farthing, The Back of the North Wind and The Princess and Curdie went into the basket with startling rapidity, followed by Uncle Remus, Hans Christian Andersen's Fairy Tales, The Swiss Family Robinson, Andrew Lang's Blue Fairy Book, his Red One and his Green One, Mary's Meadow, Lob-lie-by-the-Fire, The Wind in the Willows and The Cocky-Olly Bird.Isn't that enough?' gasped the Old Gentleman.'Yes, I think that's all,' said Henrietta, counting them.
A whimsical story, featuring adventure, very old gentlemen, books, underground caves and rivers, and a delightful surprise for a very loving girl.
Henrietta is ten, her adopted brother Hugh Anthony about to celebrate his birthday.
However most of the characters in the book are adults, the majority quite elderly.
It's a children's book, but I don't know many children nowadays who would appreciate it, other than, perhaps, voracious and eclectic readers of between about nine and twelve.
However, for adults who like Goudge's writing, steeped in history and cathedral culture, it's a pleasant book.
Charming old fashioned story with some very gentle magical realism thrown in. The kind of book that calms you down and makes the world a good place again. Traditional "magic of the woods" theme as in Little White Horse and books by Lewis, Wynne Jones, and Pratchett when writing for children.
Did not realize this was part of a series, as it was loaned to me by a friend who hadn't even finished it. It works as a standalone, but it was only "okay." I feel I need to read the rest of the series before pronouncing my opinion. Perhaps I'm missing out on something?
A lovely little fairy tale and they all lived happily ever after. Loved the end!Found this gem at a used book sale, inscribed by the first owner in 1942. Glad I picked it up!
At that time I thought it was quite sweet but not very exciting.
They all have minor adventures and meet, for example, a stray puppy, a man with a heart made of wax bundled up in the coat-tail pocket of his dress coat (yes it was a long time ago) and a cave system just waiting to be explored, which the owner of the property has not done, supposedly because he waited many years to see if someone would turn up to explore with him.
I got The Last Battle by CS Lewis at the same time, and thought it a far better adventure.
a rather old-fashioned book in which the reader keeps expecting to find out something terrible has happened and in which nothing tragic ever does happen.
everyone ends up happy and even those people who experience a bit of discomfort find something to be happy about until life looks better.
i waffled between really liking the book and really being irritated that nothing ever really seemed to happen–it tended to be a little too sickly sweet.
then he put this anxious thought from him; for if you have done a thing you have done it, and it’s no good worrying, you have to abide by the consequences whether you like them or not.”
This is one of my favourite books ever and my second favourite Goudge book (after The Little White Horse). I was read this by both my parents many years apart, and both times I loved it. In this book, magic, legend, and fate are handled with expertise. It reminds me a bit of Into the Woods. All the characters go into the woods and have adventures that make them learn or helps them achieve a certain dream, fulfill a wish. It is an old book, but it is enjoyable and appropiate for all ages.
This book was about half-way between a realistic fiction story and a fairy tale. I really enjoyed it. Almost the entire book happens within a one-day period. A young boy wants his favorite adults to celebrate his birthday by taking a picnic to the Blue Hills. On the way, the different groups go different ways and certain somewhat magical things happen then they all meet up again for the tea party. A really cool idea!
This is a charming children's book written in the 1940s. It has a lovely fairy-tale atmosphere yet the characters are very real. It's Henrietta's brother's birthday and they are going to fox-glove coombe for a picnic. However things take a strange turn on the way and everyone ends up having an adventure. It is well written and finishes with a moral for everyone!
I never really cared enough about the characters for the resolution to mean much. Must we have both an "Old Man" and an "Old Gentleman," both nameless? Seems overly convoluted, though plenty of lovely writing and worthwhile themes.
Another magical story by Elizabeth Goudge that imparts spiritual realities! Knowing the real God - who is all love and acceptance and no punishment or judgment - is truly like a fairy tale come true..
4.5 stars :) I love it, but not AS much as I love L & R and LWH!
The Torminster Saga #3
Cassettes.
This book gave me nightmares as a nine-year-old. Voodoo and witchcraft!?The cover is truly deceiving. I'm glad no one has heard of this book.
What a delightful little trip.
