https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49742.In_a_Free_State
Their hair was parted low on the left and piled up on the right, in the style known to city African as the English style.” What I liked about this book is the precise writing style of Naipaul and the way in which multiple themes can be explored reading this book especially through the events and conversations during the car trip of Bobby and Linda.
First, they found liberation and freedom of desire in this land but later at the time of tribal conflict and rage they were forced to take a long drive to the safety!I will recommend it to them who have not yet read anything of Naipaul.
I must confess that I do not not enjoy reading V.S. Naipaul. I find his fiction overly pessimistic and bitter, his characters unappealing, passive victims whose lives seem exercises in futility. In a sense, like Joseph Conrad, he explores the backwaters of colonialism (or post-colonialism in Naipuals case), but whereas most of Conrads main characters have a spark of courage, or decency or some positive human value, Naipauls alienated and displaced characters find it difficult to even sustain pet
In a sense, like Joseph Conrad, he explores the backwaters of colonialism (or post-colonialism in Naipual´s case), but whereas most of Conrad´s main characters have a spark of courage, or decency or some positive human value, Naipaul´s alienated and displaced characters find it difficult to even sustain petty or mediocre aspirations.In spite of my personal dislikes, V.S. Naipaul must be considered an important writer because of his deftness in portraying the loneliness, the unsatisfied, and perhaps unsatisfiable, yearning for belonging of the expatriate, the emigrant, the deraciné, whose roots never quite take hold again, who cannot even romanticize his loss of place in the world and who never shakes off his prejudices.In these writings, freedom is thrust upon characters and countries, it is unwelcome, a burden and, ultimately, a charade.
Probably should have DNFed this but forced myself through. The first story was compelling, the second weirdly intriguing but a slog but the title story was painfully boring, telling the story of two white colonists driving through an African country teetering upon civil war. Potentially a great story bogged down by overly detailed writing and odd dialogue. I know already this will be my least favorite Golden Man Booker finalist.
I caught myself thinking a few times while reading this that reading this is better than being high.That is some amazing power of prose right there.Before I picked this up (on the merit of it being a big influence on Kiran Desai's Inheritance of Loss) I knew next to nothing about Naipaul aside that he was considered a great writer.
This was a great damn story and some of the best writing that I have ever read.The second story was lackluster in comparison to the first.
And should be required reading for anyone who is thinking about visiting, let alone living in a foreign land.
I’m not sure if the win was purely, or mainly, meant for the titular story ‘In A Free State’, or if it was meant for the entire book.
The stories in this book all tell of displacement, that migrant feeling of rootlessness and not really belonging anywhere.
These themes are brought home when reading all of these stories collectively.
They make sense, if rather poignantly so, given that Naipaul is a migrant himself.On its own, the titular story might seem to be just a wartime novella.
This sense of freedom turns on its head as the balance of power shifts towards the end of the novella.
Is it Naipaul's best?
I don't know, I haven't read all the novels, but his best is very good indeed.
This is a series of thematically connected stories with two very short journal-entry vignettes bookending the beginning and end.
Naipaul is hard to read.
But his writing is so phenomenal, his eye so acute, and his evocation of the natural and built worlds so penetrating (from beautiful to horrible as the subject requires), that he demands to be read, carefully and thoroughly.ETA: The way Naipaul depicts African people is frequently painful, even more than his usual unsparingly cruel eye.
In A Free State is the Booker winner selection of the 1970’s decade (by Robert McCrum)for the 50th anniversary “Golden Booker” discussion.That’s why I read this, forty seven years after its publication in 1971.My image of V.S. Naipaul was that he was regarded as a bit dated, rather ponderous; and while the colonial (African) subject matter of In A Free State is certainly of it’s time, the writing style is innovative and challenging.
There are three novellas with a very short piece at the beginning and end.
The focus is on being in a foreign/strange land.
The longest novella deals with Africa at the end of empire; two white colonials travelling across an African state (possibly Uganda) at a time of change.
It highlights their fears, prejudices and feelings about the future.
There is a strong sense of threat (real or imagined; you decide) as they travel and a sense of something ending.
The story about an Indian in Wshington DC and his adjustment to a new culture and a foreign land is moving.
This is a collection of short stories that explore the sense of fundamental disorientation by individuals relocated to a dramatically different culture. I appreciated Naipaul’s subtlety.
8.5/10
A hodge-podge collection of stories all sharing the same world of utter bleakness, filled with uninspiring characters for whom bitterness is the only salve and death the only inevitability to aspire to. If I wanted death, mayhem and a situation of no hope in a post-colonial world, I would rather watch Game of Thrones!My Rating - 2/5
Naipaul’s award-winning “In a Free State” is about a topic that continues to gain importance—displacement, the search for happiness in a foreign land.
“In a Free State” is actually a collection of three stories and a prologue.
It is the story of an immigrant lost in America, but who finally just gives in and slips into an unlikely marriage that will give him the stability and legitimacy he needs: “I do not want to understand or learn anymore,” he says, “I have had several lives.
I probably ought to re-read this as I don't think I had enough knowledge to understand it at the time I first read.
Naipaul is masterful in telling the incisive tale of servitude transported, giving each character due measure of inherent decency, self-interest and flawed humanity.
The uncomfortable meeting of worlds is all the more resonant because stories from the point of view of servants are so unusual.
Over and over I was confronted with my own privilege and prejudice, and forced to think again.
As a story of emancipation and readjustment, it's entirely without utopian illusions.
I guess I just have a very different world-view to Naipaul
I think this is one that will stay with me for a long time.I tried to write an actual review, but I'm struggling to put how I feel afterwards into words. I would, however, recommend this to absolutely anybody. There is wisdom and compassion and rage and a sense of lucid detachment that make the book very difficult reading, but make you think very deeply and clearly.I think great literature should transport you to a time and place and you should come away having lived an experience, and in this you get five.
Ordering this book I wasn’t aware that I ordered author’s revised edition, and that the original (awarded) book was collection of three short stories. My edition have only one - In a Free State which is set in Africa, in unnamed state that has recently acquired independence. The tension between white and black residents is described in a very tangible way, and I think that this is the strongest part of the story.
In a Free State  is a collection of stories four to be exact.
I particularly liked the first two stories, that told of the immigrant experience.
I loved how Naipaul wrote of the Immigrant experience in a such an authentic way.
I have to say, I did not enjoy the longest story in this collection- In A Free State, in this story we meet two expats who are driving through "Africa" the continent is on the verge of civil uprising so the drive is a bit uncomfortable.
The story was long and meandering and felt like it was not going anywhere.
The tales in this book are based on the lives of characters who are somehow pitifully depicted as slaves to their socioeconomic conditions, which is a sad and common reality to the human experience, and now it can be related to the many people who are alleged victims of globalization.
The title "In A Free State" sounds sarcastic and hiding a tinge of irony, because based on the outcomes of the characters, they never attained the holy grail of freedom that they sought and on which they based their hard work.
Naipaul is an exquisite writer. This collection of stories addresses states of freedom -- from the intimacy within one's own mind all the way to the vastness of a country's political upheaval, along with various states in between. A malaise surrounds the narratives, all relating to displaced protagonists, wandering, not at home anywhere, I think; I say that because there's a certain disconnectedness roving through the hearts & souls of these words, something that works to keep all of the characters as outsiders from themselves & others &, yet, still human. Is anyone ever really in a free state? Recommended.
في بلاد حرة المرة الأولى التي اقرأ فيها لنايبول الحاصل على نوبل الآداب سنة 2001 م، ورغم أن كتابه هذا حصل على البوكر سنة 1971 م، إلا أنه لم يستهوني كثيراً، والكتاب ليس رواية، بقدر ما هو قصة طويلة وأربع قصص قصيرة، تنتظمها كلها مجموعة من الموضوعات، تتراوح ما بين الغربة والهوية والعنف.
ففي إحدى القصص نتابع حياة مستخدم هندي، يذهب مع سيده إلى أمريكا، حيث نرصد تعامله مع الحياة هناك، وهروبه للعمل في مطعم، وفي أخرى قصة أخ هندي وكفاحه لتعليم أخيه الأصغر، وفي ثالثة نتابع رحلة يقوم به رجل وامرأة بريطانيان في دولة أفريقية مضطربة.
أدب نايبول يفتح لنا عوالم مختلفة، عوالم الهنود والأفارقة المجهولة لنا، ولكنه ليس أدباً سهلاً ولا ممتعاً للأسف.
I don't know whether the sections that were excised from this new version would have helped or changed my opinion, but I found this difficult book to warm to, and it didn't leave me wanting to read more. What remains is a road story of a mismatched and not very likeable pair of English people travelling through an anonymised East African country at a time of civil strife in the post-colonial era, a very bleak read.
Naipul has such an eye for vivisecting the colonial condition. In this novel he applies it ruthlessly to both native subaltern and dominant colonial presence. The last narrative proper, "In A Free State", is a character study of the highest caliber. Next up, A House for Mr Biswas.
I just didn't get this book. I liked the first story but the second story I just didn't get. And, I haven't finished the last story though I keep trying.
Of the three main stories, the second was the hardest to read but in the end was the one that stuck with me the most.
The second main story is powerful, scattered, and it takes the whole of the story to piece together the chronology and how the past triggered the present telling.
Here it becomes absurd -- purposefully by Naipaul -- given the violence that surrounds them.The bookend stories are really just snippets, of what I thought must be a single narrator, traveling.
But as the situation is on the cusp of change with the ascendancy of the president, the characters are forced to confront whether they truly wish to advance Africa - the old colonial marketing spiel - or if they are just using it as a playground for their sexual liberation.
Both Linda and Bobby seem helpless to come to terms with what would truly be best for Africa and Africans, throwing out lines that they dont really mean and using cliche and repeating the colonial lines to mask their fear - the fear that they dont really have answers to the big questions, that they may become victims of black retribution against the white hand.
I liked two stories, one about an Indian servant who leaves India with his employer.
The other about an Indian who wants to give his brother better opportunities, and leaves India after him.
They are about foreignness, loneliness, prejudice, as are the other two lesser stories (well, more of testimonies of brutality) and as is the novella.The novella is disturbing in a way that may be unintentional.
The main characters, Bobby and Linda drive from the capital to the compound, and it's their story as well as England's colonialists' and the colony's.Every bit of movement, word and thought (especially Bobby's) are analyzed and become significant, sometimes against my intuition/logic.
A very well written, interesting, engaging book that includes two very short journal autobiographical entries at the beginning and end, two short stories and one novella.
The issues of immigration, colonialism, exile and colour/race supremacy are prevalent in the book.
Naipaul has a succinct and clearly descriptive way of raising confronting issues of ordinary people and their ways of getting on with their lives in uncomfortable situations.My favourite of the five is 'One out of Many' which is about an Indian manservant from Bombay coping with life in Washington D.C.
It's an uncomfortable journey as the two, Bobby and Linda, have little in common apart from their skin colour.
The journey highlights Bobby and Linda's poor attitude and treatment of the black Africans.
Since I had essentially forgotten the previous book, I was halfway expecting a misanthropic asshole expounding on how everybody, colonizer or colonized, gets what they deserved.That isn't what I got when I read the book.
The long one "In A Free State" is the centerpiece and is a shocking "Heart of Darkness" (Naipaul makes sure you get it by mentioning Conrad several times) tale on the white man losing his privileged point of view.
The title is ambiguous and ironic - the man had carried his "free state" along with him as a white man, the "you can't touch me" attitude.
يصحب بوبي وليندا القاريء عبر السيارة التي تقطع مساحات شاسعة في بلد افريقي، في وقتٍ عصيب يشهد صراعا بين قوم الملك وقوم الرئيس.
في الطريق الطويل نحو "المجمع" أو ما يمكن وصفه بالملاذ الآمن، الكثير من الحوارات العميقة، الساخرة أحيانا، أو تلك التي تكشف مكنونات النفس بشفافية وخفة ودقة.
أعجبت بالرهافة التي كتبت بها قصة "واحد من كثيرين".
وفي قصة "قل لي من أقتل" يقول السارد "أنا لا أهتم بنفسي.
أنا ليست لي حياة" فهو يبدو معنيا فقط بشقيقه الصغير ، وكما حُفرت في ذاكرته صورته وهو يرتجف بالحمى متمددا على الأرضية في إحدى الغرف، ستُحفر أيضا في ذهن القاريء حين يُستدعى المشهد ببراعة، بين الحين والآخر، وهو يكبر.
Naipaul’s prose is so precise and flawless, it is difficult not to enjoy it despite the bitterness and sarcasm. An abrasive masterpiece.
An English odd-couple on a long drive through the deteriorating country-side security of an unnamed African nation don’t have a chance of avoiding an oppressive and eventually violent alienation.Naipaul bookends these fictions with (modified) journal entries from a boat trip to, and a tour within, Egypt, in which he captures episodic human cruelty; the first he views dispassionately, the second he intervenes with, after noting his own (writing?) hand trembling.
An exile himself in his adopted England, he implies that while displacement is part of the human condition, it is second nature for a writer.
