https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/760396.The_One_in_the_Middle_Is_the_Green_Kangaroo
This story is about being a middle child. It sounds tough. Luckily, this middle child found the glory of the theatre and he gets to stand out and be the Green Kangaroo. It helped to give him an identity.This is a beginning reader and a nice little story for kids to start on. It was cute. Judy Blume is such a great author.
After I read In the Unlikely Event I decided I finally needed to read (or re-read) all the Judy Blume books, and this one was first in the list. This was okay, but I am definitely not the target audience. Kids would probably like it, though. Obviously.
I have always enjoyed Judy Blume's books.
I loved them when I was a child and I'm excited to share them with our girls.
I usually associate her work with middle-grade and YA fiction, but she also has a few fun picture books, too.
This is a fun story about the frustration of being the middle child as well as one boy's efforts to find a place in the spotlight.
The narrative is short and engaging and the illustrations are colorful and complement the story nicely.
We enjoyed reading this book together.
Freddy thinks his life is poopy because he is a middle child. But then he tries out for the school play and realizes he is special, and then he decides it's okay to be in the middle. He is happy with who he is. I read my first chapter book! Yay!
I'm reading the books in chronological order of release date because I can and "The One in the Middle is a Green Kangaroo" came first.
Published first in 1969, it is the story of a boy named Freddy who feels the weight of being his family's middle child.
This book is nearly 40 years old, but I read it aloud to the girls and it didn't feel dated or old fashioned.
I'm thinking first grade students would get the most out of this book, but it would also be a great read aloud choice as it can be read, in totality, in about 20-25 minutes.
This was a short book that I thought was very cute and teaches a lesson.

Freddy always wanted to do something special that neither Mike or Ellen have done, so he auditioned for a school play.
I can kind of relate to Freddy, although I am not the middle child, I am the youngest child and with that also comes old clothes and getting to follow in my older brothers footsteps.
I know many students have brother and sisters and this shows them there's always something you can do to be special, whether you are the youngest, the middle, or the oldest child.
I like that this book shows students that each and every one of them is special.
Listened to the audiobook with my son Ben at bedtime. He is the older brother in our house but it helped him see how his little bro feels. Not that he cares :)! Quick and funny it was the perfect story before bed.
This is such a cute book and one I think that kids who are feeling left out (especially middle children) would appreciate.
It’s a pretty book to look at for younger children who are interested in the illustrations rather than the story; the words themselves are fairly lyrical and would offer a fun reading aloud experience.
I’d definitely recommend this for children who have multiple siblings and who might be feeling unappreciated or left out.Also posted on Purple People Readers.
His older brother, Mike, gets all new clothes and Freddy only gets Mike's old ones.
Mike won't let him play with him.
Freddy's younger sister, Ellen, is just a baby.
She got Freddy's old room, and Freddy was forced to move into Mike's.
Plus, Ellen is just a baby, and can't play the games that Freddy wants to play.
If he was in the play, then someone might notice him!This is the first chapter book of Blume's that I've read, and it's very cute.
Blume accurately gets the middle-child syndrome and does a good job with getting into a second-grader's head.
Very cute book where a middle child finds his specialness and identity, driving home the point that everyone is unique and needs to find their own path.
(Though I knew she didn't really have the hand-me-downs problem because we were about the same size for our entire lives.) I think the book does strike that very good balance between highlighting the problems of a middle child (so middle children can relate) and showing the solutions (striving for individuality and deserving it).
Slight.
Realistic Fiction, published in 1992 for grades prek-5.
Themes include family issues, sibling issues and humor.
Freddy is the middle child and tends to be overlooked quite a bit since his older brother and younger sister require more attention.
This all changes when Freddy is offered the role of the green kangaroo in the school play.
His family is very proud of him!!
Guidance counselors could use this book with middle kids and teachers could use this as an introduction to emotions and play acting.
The students could be given an emotion written on paper and the students need to act that emotion out.
This is a realistic fiction book that could be geared towards elementary students.
This story is about Freddy and how he feels excluded in his family.
Freddy is the middle child and feels like he does not get enough attention from his family because of this and feels he has to do something courageous to get his families attention.
Students can connect with this book, especially if they are a middle child.
We can use this book to find ways that each student can shine in his or her family.
Students need to know that just because they are a middle child does not mean that they are forgotten or overlooked.
The middle child in this family seems like the precursor of Blume's more famous character, The Pain.
This youngster is tired of getting the short end of the stick every time: sharing a room, wearing hand-me-downs, and always being second (or third) to experience new things.
What can he do that will be special and get him 100% of everyone's attention?
A part in the school play is just the answer.Blume is a master of family dynamics and those scenes involving sibling bickering and the craziness of family dinner time are the most charming scenes in this transitional reader.Realistic pencil illustrations.
Freddy Dissel, a second grader, always felt like he was left out.
He wasn't big enough to play with his big brother and was too big to play with his little sister.
Freddy hears about a school play and wants to join.
When he finds out the play is only for fifth and sixth graders, his disappointment grows; however, Freddy is allowed to audition for the most important part of all.
This cute book is great for students who are beginning to transition into reading chapter books, but still into books with a lots of pictures.
Freddy was always feeling left out, especially at home because he was the middle child.
He no longer has his own room and didn't have anyone to play with.
However, he uses the school plays as an opportunity to show everyone how special he is and in doing so he learns himself that he is special.
I think a lot of children can relate to Freddy because a lot of children are the middle child of the family and psychologically speaking, they could be treated the same and be feeling the same as Freddy at the beginning of the book.
Sadly I rarely relate to Judy Blume's books - I'm not a middle child, I wasn't anxious to get my period and I didn't know anyone with Scoliosis (Deenie). Nevertheless, these were books that were standard from my childhood. I remember reading them and knowing exactly where Judy Blume's books were located in my elementary library. This story was no exception - I read it several times in 2nd grade if I'm not mistaken. Right up there with Freckle Juice. Not my favorite of them all, but still a good one.
Freddy Dissel is feeling left out of his family, being the middle child is hard for him.
He wants to stand out and not be hidden in between his brothers any longer.
But now for the first time Freddy gets the chance to show everyone how special he is, he proves to himself that he is special too.
This book would help teach the lesson of having confidence and self-esteem to the students.
It is a very engaging read and really connects the reader to Freddy by feeling his emotions with him.
Overall it is a great story for young readers.
The book is about a young boy who is stuck in the middle of his older brother and younger baby sister.
He can never get new clothes because he always receives his brother old clothes.
He can never get a room of his own because he has to share it with his brother becuase of his younger sister.
The young boy just wants to impress his parents.
For first grade children, I would use this book in the classroom to let children know although you have a older and younger sibbling, your parents still love you and haven't forgot about you.
Another classic, about a 2nd grader who's the middle child at home. Nothing really belongs to him, and no one pays him the attention he wants. But when he stars in a school play with older kids, he gets lots of praise. He realizes he's not overlooked after all.This was another quick read with my 8-year-old. It's a Guided Reading Level M, so he could have read it himself in a few days. It's divided into 4-5 short chapters, totaling about 35 pages. But reading it together spawned a good discussion about perspective and self worth.
A second grade, middle child boy who feels neglected and overlooks finds his way into a school play and gets to play a special part. This is a quick tale about how everyone needs to feel special. It's simple, but I think it would resonate with young children who feel overshadowed. It may also open the door to the conversation about how they feel and what can be done to help. Perhaps it will motivate them to find a special activity to do as well.
Delightful is the plot highlighting a second grade boy's development of self-esteem.But how bizarre that artist Amy Aitken drew fifth and sixth graders short and slight.In a classroom setting, I would ask students to illustrate this book, showing a realistic growth differential between seven-year-olds and ten/eleven-year-olds.
I listened to this book in the car with my 6.5 year old son. He liked it fine, but we'd just listened to Frecklejuice, which is much better. Plus it seemed like the reader really yelled a lot and that gave me a headache. Middle children might find something here to relate to, but I found it boring and loud.
I always enjoyed reading Judy Blume when I was younger, and this book is a wonderful transition book for kids. It is a great example of how even the middle child can do something different from the older and younger siblings to stand out. I was cheering this little guy on throughout the story. A real feel-good story. I will have this in my own classroom library.
This book is about finding your place. Freddy is a middle child and feels like he is always left out. Soon he gets a part in a play and this is what helped him feel good about himself. He didn't care that he was in the middle, he was just happy to be Freddy. This is a message I would want to portray to any student.
This book is about a middle child who gets self-confidence from being a kangaroo in a school play. For a chapter book, it is VERY short. I read it to my seven-year-old in probably under ten minutes. To be honest, I think it feels like one chapter of a longer book. But anyway, the basic story was still pretty good.
Freddy Dissel is tired of being nothing more than the middle child. Then the school play gives him the chance to be recognized for himself.Reading Practice, Vocabulary PracticeBook Level: 2.5 Interest Level: Lower Grades (LG K-3) Fiction/Nonfiction: FictionTopic - Subtopic: Arts-Theater/Plays; Family Life-Growing Up; Family Life-Sibling Rivalry
I really enjoyed reading this book. I liked the idea that the main character may relate to a student who feels invisible and found a way to stand out. I enjoyed reading how excited the boy felt when he was finally noticed. This is a great book for students who don't necessary need to rely on the pictures to understand the text.
