https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38746485-becoming
I’d been lucky to have parents, teachers, and mentors who’d fed me with a consistent, simple message: You matter. As an adult, I wanted to pass those words to a new generation. Look, I'm not a happy crier. I might cry at songs about leaving and missing someone; I might cry at books where things don't work out; I might cry at movies where someone dies. I've just never really understood why people get all choked up over happy, inspirational things. But Michelle Obama's kindness and empathy change
I've just never really understood why people get all choked up over happy, inspirational things.
I had the privilege of seeing her speak at The Forum in Inglewood, and she is one of the warmest, funniest, smartest, down-to-earth people I have ever seen in this world.And yes, I know we present what we want the world to see, but I truly do think it's genuine.
I think she is someone who really cares about people - especially kids - and wants to give them better lives and opportunities.
I’m so thrilled to add Becoming to my list! A powerful, surprising and moving book as well as refreshingly candid that I think will be deeply inspirational to many.
MICHELLE MY HEARTthis is going to be good
I didn’t think I could admire and respect former First Lady Michelle Obama any more than I already did.
Her story begins : “I spent much of my childhood listening to the sound of striving.” She speaks lovingly of her roots in this working class family - her parents and her brother and grandparents and how their values shaped the adult she would become.
It felt so intimate as she shares some personal struggles that they faced, ones that I don’t think she ever divulged publicly previous to this.
Her years at Princeton really shows what she went through.I learned something else from Michelle too .....Things about her ‘family’ - her parents - the tight knit ways they all were with one another - her incredible love for he older brother .....
It was impossible not to fall in love with not only Michelle - but her parents - brother Craig - Susan ( Michelle’s best friend in college), and her daughters, Malia and Sasha, My affinity was also warm for people who supported their family in the White House.
I was always wowed by the sheer joy she appeared to have for the job of First Lady, despite the overwhelming amount of cruelty she and her family were subjected to throughout her husband's two terms as President.With 
She talks of her desire to make an impact as First Lady while at the same time ensuring her daughters' lives were as "normal" as they could possibly be, and the successes, frustrations, and disappointments she experienced.I love the matter-of-fact way she shares her feelings and experiences, revealing emotions and fears and moments of anger, as well as the moments of sheer joy, as mother, as wife, as daughter, and as First Lady.
You bet your ass I just preordered this. As a female minority, Queen First Lady Michelle Obama has become one of my most go-to role models, and I already know I'm going to be in tears while reading this.
Per my Amazon account, I purchased The Audacity of Hope by Barack Obama in early 2007.
When I read this book, I was moved and hoped this man would be president one day.
My point is, I’ve always loved the Obamas, but I never knew much about Michelle.
Her story is inspiring, fascinating, and I adore her.If you’re going to read this book, I can’t recommend the audio book enough.
Michelle herself narrates it and I always love when authors narrate their own stories.
I loved reading about her past, her family, and of course when she met Barack and their story.
The inflection and enthusiasm in Michelle Obama’s voice, her feelings of love for this man, it is so evident.
Oh how I miss them.From life in politics, campaigning, being bullied, becoming the First Lady and raising Malia and Sasha in the White House, Michelle Obama gives an honest portrayal of what life was like for her and Barack Obama.
Yet his love for this Nation was and is still evident.There were so many moments while listening to this audiobook that I teared up.
Thank you to Michelle Obama for sharing your life with us.
As most of us know by now, Michelle is from Chicago, grew up with loving and supportive parents, attended Princeton followed by Harvard for law school, then began her position as an associate at the prestigious law firm of Sidley Austin, where she eventually met Barack.
Michelle does not pretend living in the White House was not a privilege or shy away from the associated perks.
Becoming is never giving up on the idea that there’s more growing up to be done.“Highly recommend Becoming for fans Michelle, Barack, and the Obama administration.
I enjoyed reading about Barack's campaigning and how Michelle coped with his decision to run for president as she was honest with her feelings and thoughts throughout this time and I think most wife's and mothers and women could identify with what she must have felt about taking on a life for her family that would be so restrictive and challenging ( I know I for one would have legged it) as I cant even manage to put up a photo of myself on my profile picture.
I have loved Barack Obama since I watched his speech at the Democratic Convention in 2004....
She always strived to do her best and she became very highly educated.There were so many things I was surprised by ...I was brought to tears a few times and laughed quite a bit also.I am so happy that I chose the audiobook..
loved listening to her tell her story!
I just fell in love with her too!There is one fact that I did not like...
she hates politics, the nastiness of it...
and is adamant about never running for president...
I honestly can't wait to read this one! Already preordered the audiobook. A full memoir about her life in her own words? Take all my money Michelle!Release Date: Nov. 13 2018
Hearing Michelle tell her own story is better than reading her words in a book.
On election night in 2007, after the votes had been counted and it was clear Barack would be president, Barack, Michelle and their two girls drove to the celebration party, but Sasha, their youngest child, was worried because there were no other cars on the road.
Michelle presents her views in a polite, thoughtful, balanced and relatively fair manner.I have come to understand the dynamics of the Obama family, the ups and downs the family has progressed through.
Michelle Obama AKA our lord and saviour AKA an actual INSPIRATION!
If you like Michelle Obama, you are going to like this book.
If you don't like Michelle Obama, though, you're going to write a snarky one-star review complaining that she criticizes Donald Trump, conveniently forgetting that he was among the primary architects of the false, racist claim that her husband was lying about his citizenship.
She's got every right to criticize him.
Whatever, the Donald Trump stuff is a relatively small piece of this book.
This is the first political memoir I've ever read, but it was a thoroughly enjoyable book.
In the U.S., Michelle's efforts helped millions of girls sign up for federal student aid; got increased support for school counselors; and launched National College Signing Day - a commemoration of young people and their pursuit of higher education beyond high school.
In addition to kids from working class neighborhoods like hers, there were white students from Chicago's prosperous North Side, and members of the 'African American elite', who belonged to social clubs, took ski vacations and traveled overseas.....things completely off young Michelle's radar.
This book is poorly written. Only fans of M.O. could possibly like this book as it doesn't stick to facts. They are the only ones allowed to give reviews of it. I wonder what is being said about Trump books? My review has been deleted twice. Hopefully I am allowed to say this little bit.
*Dreaming of a world where Trump doesn’t exist and Michelle Obama is President...This was such a great read.
Engrossing from the beginning, it was so interesting to hear her life story; from her childhood and the life she had before she met Barack, to the person she became with him, and to the life they built together with their children and within the Whitehouse.
Her passion for diversity and representation for the poor, females and people of colour is so refreshing and encouraging to read.
She is such a brilliant role model and an incredible person, one I hope many women, especially young girls, look up to.
I know I do.This book is definitely one for the favourites shelf!!
And I’m not even excited just because I have silly fantasies about what it’d be like to be Michelle’s best friend and closest confidant and listening to the 19 hours and 3 minutes of the audio book meant Michelle was speaking about her private reflections directly into my ear.
Having just read the book I’m filled with emotion and admiration and, yes, more hope because of the striking insights and heartfelt openness of Michelle’s story.Read my full review of Becoming by Michelle Obama on LonesomeReader
I'm not super interested in politics so I was pleased to find that Michelle Obama doesn't really like politics either. Her memoir is more about how she created her life, once she discovered she had followed other people's expectations instead of figuring out what she wanted. She is honest and open, more than I would have expected, and I liked hearing how she reconciled living with someone messy (haha), gave up her work for a while, and how she navigated the frustrating world of "optics." I listened to the audio read by the author, highly recommended.
The book follows a basic chronological order, starting with her childhood on the south side of Chicago, covering her college years, then how she met Barack while working at a law firm, and finally their life together, with Barack choosing a career in politics, while Michelle admits she dislikes politics, especially how it can strain family life.There were a lot of great stories in this book, but one I especially liked (in part because it reminded me of my own father) was how frustrated Michelle would get with Barack's constant lateness.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who likes the Obamas, political stories or inspiring memoirs.Favorite Quotes"Now I think it’s one of the most useless questions an adult can ask a child — What do you want to be when you grow up?
I miss you and your husband so much
“I think we should go out,” Barack announced one afternoon as we sat finishing a meal.“What, you and me?” I feigned shock that he even considered it a possibility. “I told you, I don’t date. And I’m your adviser.” He gave a wry laugh. “Like that counts for anything. You’re not my boss,” he said. “And you’re pretty cute.” I feel that Michelle Obama is a truly inspiring woman, a woman who makes you believe in true values, who makes you appreciate the importance of duty and family.... ...But I hav

They were determined to see them achieve their potential.I discovered that I had held an assumption that Michelle Obama’s education at elite colleges was paid for by scholarships.
Mrs. Obama was relentless in working to keep life “normal” for her two daughters.
Perhaps the incidents in the book that impacted me the most were Mrs. Obama's accounts of the Sandy Hook shooting, and soon after, the death of a Chicago honor student Hadiya Pendleton, who had participated in President Obama's second inauguration as part of her school's marching band and was gunned down days later.
What a triumphant memoir!
A beacon of light and positivity this shows Michelle Obama to be such a poised articulate, extremely intelligent, generous and capable woman.
This memoir chronicles Michelle’s life from early childhood to the departure of the White House after two terms showcasing every setback and triumph meticulously.
I could go on and on about this phenomenal woman, instead I urge everyone to read this book.
It’s knowing the good work that the Obama’s leave behind but also the continued work to give voice to the minority groups, the less fortunate and to those that need the most encouragement.
A beautifully written and inspiring story of the most iconic American woman of this centurySUMMARYBecoming is a Michelle Obama’s autobiographical memoir.
It’s a deeply personal account of a woman describing her Chicago roots, finding her professional voice and being a mother.
And so when I hear about negative and false attacks, I really don’t invest any energy in them, because I know who I am.“REVIEWBECOMING is an beautiful and inspiring story of how a woman who grew up on the Southside of Chicago, became the first African-American First Lady of the United States.
It's long, but it's so lovely to hear Michelle Obama's words on her own warm, confident voice.
I loved hearing about her own life as a person who existed before she met the man who would become president, who had dreams of her own, and the will to do the hard work to accomplish them.
But I also loved seeing Barack Obama through her eyes, when he was young, and while he was president.
Hearing their love story was 😍😍😍!
Michelle Obama is such a remarkable woman, and I loved everything about her memoir.
omg omg omg
Hands Down, the Best Memoir of 2018 Now I think it’s one of the most useless questions an adult can ask a child—What do you want to be when you grow up?
I have no words to explain how amazing this book is.
While I am not a big fan of politics and politician, the Obamas stole my heart when they were in power and I still look on deeply fascinated by the life they live.
Also, can we just all pause and acknowledge Barrack and Michelle's love story and how moving it was?
This might be one of the best memoirs I have read to date.
