https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1090902.From_Caligari_to_Hitler
He had found no answers to the modern age in the Weimar Era, but perhaps he could find why they had not been found, or rather why the final answer had become the Final Solution.The flaws of such an approach are expressed very well by Leonardo Quaresima in his introduction when he describes it as “history [being] read backwards and forced to follow its own footsteps.” Caligari to Hitler is an exhaustive survey of most of the films produced by Germany in the Weimar Period, with an emphasis on the plots of the ones Kracauer (sometimes inaccurately) remembers, or has interviewed people about, or has access to (films being not as accessible as they are now, and some lost to time).
a pretty fascinating look at the flow between art and culture. it's a little more of a "chicken and the egg" relationship than the book wants to admit - it basically takes the stance that germany's weimar cinema paved the psychological road for hitler's rise to power - but the bottom line is that it is one of the first serious discussions of films power over political and cultural zeitgeist. just because it's popular entertainment doesn't mean it won't influence the way we think, people.
The book was checked out less than a dozen times since it was purchased by USC Beaufort in 1972.
When it was last checked out I was in elementary school and knew nothing of the joys of German expressionism and silent film.
He is able to refer back to his past writings, and those of his fellow critics, and discern the authoritarian yearnings in mass entertainment.I can’t imagine that this book would be interesting for someone unfamiliar with silent movies.
However, if you’re looking for a book that will give you a deeper understanding of German silent film, this is it.
Kracauer's treatise on that most influential of German Expressionist films is very well-known in film circles and is an interesting read, but it doesn't hold up to today's scrutiny and should really only be read for historical purposes.
His central thesis, that The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari was a reflection of the changing social mindset of post-World War I Germany and predicted the rise of Nazism, is not only far-fetched, but it's not well fleshed out.
Maybe we can forgive him this, because this was before the DVD (or even VHS) era, but it makes the book a real anachronism.
Fascinating for fans of film history. Apply some analysis to your own countries films - you'll be amazed
A super fascinating subject matter - where culture, (evil) politics, and cinema art all meet up. Siegfried Kracauer is very much like Walter Benjamin, in that he looks at popular culture and writes about it in a new light. Basically what this book is about is Germany from the 20's to the 30's. Kind of scary in its scope and how mass entertainment or art can be reflective of what is happening in the (that) world.
A classic in German film studies. How early German film mirrored the pre-Hitler German subconscious.
After reading many books by Kracauer's fellow essayist Walter Benjamin, I was expecting a very heavy book on the history of German cinema.
Where Benjamin can sometimes wonder off topic, Kracauer is focused on linking his analysis of German cinema to the rise of the Third Reich.
The content is heavy without being dense or getting too dry.
It was truly an engrossing read in both its content and historical context (being published near the end of the second world war).
Make sure you have a subscription to a good video streaming service such as FilmStruck so you can watch the films Kracauer describes.
he theorizes that you can watch the rise of fascism through murnau/lang/forgot the other director off top of my head, and he tries to look back, but the whole idea feels cherry-picked for evidence.
the bits about ufa are utterly fascinating, as are the insights into the habits of german film audiences.
but you can pretty much read dialectic of enlightment, by his buddy adorno, and get a better argument.
good reading for german film enthusiasts/scholars, though.
This is an interesting piece of work for anyone who is interested in the german cinema in between the 2 world wars. The point of wiew of Krakauer, who tries to find the prodromes of what will be the political changes in the cinematographic production, might sound aprioristic, however the work is still fascinating and is a must have to every enthusiast of the silent era. Many movies are being analyzed in what it has been "the golden era of german cinema".
Interesante. Aunque pueda parecer que un análisis a posteriori puede enfocarse para que demuestre el resultado que ya conocemos, no es menos cierto que, al menos las grandes películas alemanas de la época que conozco, lo que propone Kracauer no es descabellado.Y sirve también para repasar el cine de esos "tiempos interesantes" (ironía)
The author slowly reveals the hitler foretold on the screen, just as italian cinema invented il duce, while discussing some of the greatest films ever made, including: metropolis, the cabinet of dr caligari and Nosferatu.A terrifying excerpt describing the plot of the film 'The Captain of Kopenick' (1931): "In his despair, the ingenious cobbler finally decides to capitalize on the spell anyofficer's uniform casts over German soldiers and civilians alike.
(Parallels with the current vampire craze, anyone?) His psychological analyses of the general tendencies I found quite convincing, but like most authors with a general thesis he pushes it too far and applies it to immediately in analyzing specific films.Anyone with an interest in the early cinema needs to read this book, if only because every other book on the subject takes it as the starting point, whether they follow his thesis or polemicize against it.
Written by Siegfried Kracauer, a cultural critic in Germany at the very time he describes, the book is rich in detail and insight into the development of Expressionism and what came after.
Kracauer, himself Jewish, fled Germany at the birth of the Nazi regime, eventually settling in the United States, where From Caligari to Hitler was published in 1947.
It's not his fault that the passage of time since the original writing has rendered insignificant many of the movies he considered important, or raised the artistic value of films he dismisses, but such developments make it harder for a modern reader to navigate the intricacies of Kracauer's text.
Não tem um bom panorama histórico, fica tudo meio jogado ou pouco explicado, então eu entendi porque tenho base, mas talvez outros não conseguissem muito bem.Um problema das análises, que, apesar de justo, incomoda, é o fato de serem completamente spoilers.
O lado bom é que minha memória é fraca e eu já esqueci a grande maioria dos finais, sendo que muitos acabam em suicídio (uma obsessão alemã do período).Acho que tem algumas forçações de barra, mas que crítica de cinema não tem?
I can't speak to how this book must have read upon publication, but, at this great remove, it's conclusions (and comments on the German character) strike me as facile and wide of the mark.
I thought the book did a good job when it focused on the workmanlike task of just cataloging films from the silent era when Weimar was a cinema powerhouse equal to Hollywood today, and of course I have no complaints about the photographs.
But the author's remote pedantic tone and dry rendering of this material left me underwhelmed.
And no, scholarly writing doesn't have to have the hermeunetic,arid quality of this work, so that apologia won't wash, either.Not recommended.
An incredibly ambitious attempt to psychoanalyze -- through film -- the cultural components that built up to the Nazi regime. As speculative sociology, it has its flaws; as the performance of an agile, serious-minded (though playful) critic, it's masterful. Perhaps the films don't intrinsically reveal all that Kracauer alleges they do; what's important is that they can be (and have been, in service of this very volume) read this way, and with remarkable insight and theoretical consistency.
Kracauer has a particular point to make; however, his well researched study of the films of the Weimar Republic support his thesis. This is not only a book for film buffs, but a film for anyone interested in the cultural history of Germany and some of the touchstones of its perilous journey to fascisim.
Great work to learn expressionism in the german cinema. Definitely convincing study to understand the relations between German society and their cinema from 1985 to 1933 (and even more). You may have watched early German films but you should watch them again after you read this book. Thus, one can totally understand Kracauer's word on this subject.
Good book if you are interested in German film or even the time just before the rise of Classical Hollywood film. These were the German directors who were wooed to Hollywood to make films in the early years.
Ok, this isnt a light read, but it's fascinating in how it explains the psychological state of Germans after WWI and how it led to WWII. It took me longer than most to finish this, but I was glad I did.
written a few years after the end of WWII this author theorizes that subject matter in German films from the 20's-30's predicited the rise of a leader like Hitler. interesting stuff, lots of fascinating film stills
A superb study on early German cinema and the mass psychology behind it. A fascinating read for any fan of German Expressionist cinema.
