https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59091.Tobacco_Road

None of that was humorous to me, though I have a feeling some found it so.The Lester family is starving -- literally -- and the little they might acquire is consumed by a hierarchy, a survival of the fittest.
The father Jeeter does not act, but he does talk, repeating himself all the time: no one is listening.The book alternates at times between what comes across as almost slapstick (not something I care for, but well done here) and then musings about the Lester family history and their attachment to the land.
Larimer Arts Center, Reid St., Palatka, FloridaWith that said, it bothers me to hear comments that readers didn’t like the book because it was depressing, sad, dark, and inhumane.
There are many other adjectives to describe what’s been said by Goodreads.com readers about Tobacco Road but I agree with Melanie Hierholzer who says “I am amazed that so many people on this website just did not get this book.
Knowing the subject of the book and early in my reading, I was looking for a reader who I thought voiced an opinion that might be similar to mine.
While there were certain humorous passages, I did not find this book in the least bit funny, and I cannot understand the thinking of anyone who did.The Lesters were a family who were caught up in the end of an era - the era of sharecropping, brought on by a sea change in farming practices and the Depression (anyone see any parallels here?).
I found Jeter Lester to be an unsympathetic character for the most part, until the very end, when Lov gave a kind of eulogy about people who love the land and what they expect from it.
This passage gave me a better understanding of Jeter and I read it over and over again.
You go to his place and pray for him right now before it’s too late, and try to make him give up his evil goings-on.’ I looked right back at the Lord, and said, ‘Lord, Jeeter Lester is a powerful sinful man, but I’ll pray for him until the devil goes clear back to hell.’ That’s what I told Him, and here I is.
It’s people like you who ought to be good, instead of letting the devil make you do all sorts of sinful things.” “I knowed the good Lord wouldn’t let me slip and fall in the devil’s hands!” Jeeter shouted, dancing around Bessie’s chair.
There are many messages here about the loss of land, the state of tenant farmers, etc, but there are also messages about personal responsibility.I have seen Tobacco Road labeled as satire -- and I wondered given the degree of realism present.
Otherwise he lets the story provide the details of the rich in power, tenant farmers set loose with nothing, the land being lost to poor use practices over generations.While I agree that government and ownership policy were long to blame, I also find individual actions (or inactions) very much at fault and Caldwell seems to point to that also.
“He sometimes said it was partly his own fault, but he believed steadfastly that his position had been brought about by other people.” ― Erskine Caldwell, Tobacco RoadSometimes, when I'm unable to understand Georgia's ability to support and defend Judge Roy Moore, it helps to read a little bit of Erskine Caldwell.
The Lesters are a family of white sharecropers that are basically rotting into the earth.
Social and economic norms and even the family are lost.
Even new cars are abused and quickly swallowed by the Earth.
It is a good thing the novel was so short, because it was painful to read.
Once considered a classic of American literature, but rarely read today, I suspect, unless it is assigned, Tobacco Road is the remarkable story of the antics and tribulations of a destitute white trash family, the Lesters, written by Erskine Caldwell, and was later adapted into a play that was popular in the 1930s, and then adapted again to film by Nunnally Johnson in 1941.
First published in 1932, it was followed the next year by Caldwell's other great work on poor whites in the South, God's Little Acre, which also went from play form to eventually become a film in 1958, including in its cast Buddy Hackett, Tina Louise, and a young Michael Landon.
Caldwell 0.One of the few times in my time here on goodreads when I feel like writing: OMG.
you will no doubt remember the Peacock family.
(Come to think of it, the writers for the X files may have been one-time fans of Caldwell, and that's where the storyline originated.)I think there is a way to pick up the sadness, sorrow and desperation of being a "dirt poor sharecropper" without resorting to Peacockness.
I guess I just don't need Deliverance delivered on a page, while I'm trying to read in my bedroom late at night.I felt I should be getting up to scrub the walls and wash all the linens, ...
Yet you can find this novel on several lists of best novels of the 20th century.The people from that part of Georgia, around Augusta, despise Caldwell for his portrayal of the locals.
He believed he was calling attention to the plight of these dirt poor tenant farmers during the Great Depression.
What it does call attention to is ignorance, the effect of zero education, of inbreeding, of exploitation of the poor by...well, by everyone.
It's hard to read, hard to listen to the words of ignorance and prejudice, but I believe these people existed, and I think some of their descendants are still trying to pull themselves out of that dark abyss.
Debased by poverty to an elemental state of ignorance and selfishness, the Lesters are preoccupied by their hunger, sexual longings, and fear that they will someday descend to a lower rung on the social ladder than the black families who live near them.My Review: Ye gods and little fishes!
Talk about "been down so long it looks like up to me!"A shockingly honest book when it was published in 1932, it's still a picture that comparatively rich urban Americans need to see.
Likewise, too much tragedy to give it that.Love story?
Did he love them or hate them?
Was he making fun of their ignorance, or making excuses for it?
Lester Jeeter also had a love/hate relationship with God, blaming him for every bad thing that happened, apparently never hearing the adage "God helps those who help themselves." What was Caldwell trying to say there?
Was he making fun of religion, or using it to justify poor people's reliance on it?Maybe that is the brilliance (and it is brilliant) of this short tale of a few days with the Lesters.
I cannot help but dwell on it even when I am not actively reading.Jeeter Lester and his family are unforgettable.
It is an unpleasant story to be sure.Erskine Caldwell aims to take the reader out of their comfort zone into unknown territory.
The social injustice issues of the 1930's, the racial hatreds, the war between rich and poor, and the role of evangelical religion among the poor.But despite all this there are hints of humor within the bleak landscapes and several times I couldn't help but laugh.
A strange paradox.Caldwell highlighted the cruelty of humanity and many will not like it one bit.
Read at your own risk.
Second Reading.Nathaniel Rich writes on "The Daily Beast" website, "As a comedy, Tobacco Road is a modest failure; as a tragedy, it is an abject failure" and that the novel is "as indelible as a freak show or car crash." Dwight Garner on the "Slate" website called it "a greasy hairball of a novel....one of the sickest and most lurid books to have emerged from the literature of the American South." Both writers, however, proceed to give the novel a generally positive review.
At any rate, it seems that a straight line can be drawn from Caldwell to writers such as Harry Crews, who also attempted to combine tragedy and comedy in their novels.Tobacco Road, published in 1932, was meant to be a work of social protest, a condemnation of poverty among the poor whites of the Deep South.
Debased by poverty to an elemental state of ignorance and selfishness, the Lesters are preoccupied by their hunger, sexual longings,and fear that they will someday descend to a lower rung on the social ladder than the black families who live near them."I have underlined what I question.
Does poverty do that to the extent that it is drawn in this book?
****************************Lucille, a GR member has given me some interesting articles about Caldwell:http://www.ohioswallow.com/extras/082...http://nhpr.org/post/archives-author-...http://articles.chicagotribune.com/19...http://writing2.richmond.edu/jessid/e...The first link relates Caldwell's writing to the prevalent theories of eugenics in the 1930s.The second link gives general information about the novel, Caldwell's writing and further reading sources.
The third link names the people Caldwell based his characters on.The fourth link considers humor and Caldwell's writing.
Η φρίκη εδώ δεν κρύβεται στις τελούμενες πράξεις -και ας είναι σκληρές και οδυνηρές για τις αισθήσεις μας-, αλλά στην αταραξία με την οποία αντιμετωπίζουν οι ήρωες όσα ενσκήπτουν καθημερινά, σταθερά, με το ρυθμό της ανατολής και της δύσης του ηλίου ή καλύτερα με εκείνον της σοδειάς του καπνού που στον "κύκλο" του ζουν και πεθαίνουν -με κτηνώδη απουσία ενσυναίσθησης - τα αποκαΐδια της ζωής.
Αλλά το θαύμα που προσμένουν δεν θα προκύψει για να τους σώσει από τον εαυτό τους και το τέλος δεν είναι παρά μια ακόμα επανάληψη της αρχής.
And then a man continues to live ruled by primitive instincts and physiological needs.“When his father died, what was left of the Lester lands and debts was willed to Jeeter.
Captain John allowed Jeeter and his family to live in one of the houses, and to work for him on shares.
There was then to be no more two-thirds’ share of a year’s labor coming to Jeeter, and there was never again to be credit for food and snuff and other necessities at the stores in Fuller.
With him, Captain John took his credit.
Ao contrário dos outros pequenos proprietários — que foram para as cidades trabalhar nas fábricas — Jeeter não consegue abandonar a terra onde sempre viveu e pela qual tem "um amor que lhe vinha dos antepassados, sabendo que se partisse seria a sua morte." Teimosamente, todas as primaveras desbrava o terreno na esperança inglória de que alguém lhe empreste uma mula e lhe dê umas sementes e estrume.
Devorados pela fome tornam-se egoístas e cometem actos impróprios, tais como o roubo e a falta de amor uns pelos outros.
It struck me quite forcefully in the first chapters that I would be enjoying this humourous and mildly sarcastic send-up of self-destroying do-nothings far more than Angela's Ashes, which seemed like suffering without the benefit of 50 years hindsight.The humour goes a long way in explaining how anyone as selfish as Jeeter Lester could make an entertaining and even sympathetic protagonist.
It seems that Caldwell concluded that Jeeter was simply wicked at story's end, but that he and his family became sympathetic because forces greater than them but less than God had turned their people against each other, in the most brutally possible way.
"Tobacco Road", written in 1932 in the tough years of the Great Depression, portrays a dirt poor white sharecropper and his family in Georgia.
Nobody seems to care when Grandmother Lester and a black man are hit by a car in separate incidents.
Bessie spends all her money on a car to attract a man, but has no cash to fix a leaking roof or buy food.Caldwell seems to be calling our attention to unwise agricultural practices, financial inequities, and the plight of the poor in the years before the government provided some kind of financial safety net.
They would tell me stories of poverty and leaving the land and working in the sawmill or the oilfield and the stress on the families and their struggle to exist and their striving for a better life.
Erskine Caldwell's "Tobacco Road" shows that hard life better than any book I've ever read.
It also depicts the stark reality of life led by poor whites in the south, which is shocking even today, and hard for a people trying to forget their difficult past.
This was a tough one to get through.
Almost too raw for me, especially that end scene with the grandmother and the family's treatment of her.
I was extremely disturbed by some scenes and almost hoped Caldwell meant this to be a parody of harsh, destitute country life.
Whereas Steinbeck illuminates our humanity, painting portraits of human dignity and courage in the face of unspeakable tragedy, Caldwell zeros in on our baser natures.
The characters of Tobacco Road are cruel, vicious beings driven solely by primitive urges.
There is no humanity, and certainly no dignity.
I didn't bother to slog all the way through this book and I have no idea what happened to the copy from my shelves.Mr. Caldwell was somewhat controversial in his own day.
Maybe not in some sense, but I hope I can feed the spirit with more than despair.) I didn't finish it and mostly forgot it, till as I said I ran across it here.
By the way, I really don't pay much attention to who thinks what is among the best 100, 1000, or 1,000,000 books in the English language.
Maybe the book is written well in some sense.
Some people have claimed that this book portrays the American South in a negative way.
I can't agree with that...I think it portrays Jeeter Lester in a negative way, and deservedly so.
Remaining in the Lester coop are the misinformed and the malformed: Ellie May with her harelip and her brother Dude.
There is reason to suspect that Pearl was sired on Ada by some party passing through, and this would account for her attractiveness.As the tale unwinds, it becomes obvious that the Lesters are in their plight thanks to Jeeter, a stupid, shiftless scheming man.
Tobacco Road is the quintessential hillbilly book.
Erm… really I want to write more about this but…The thing is, author Erskine Caldwell apparently meant for this book to be a true portrayal of life amongst poverty stricken people in the rural South.
But it is easy to see why so many people mistook Tobacco Road as a comedy.
The few encounters this family has with, well regular people, they are laughed at and taken advantage of… it is easy to see readers doing the same.
Unfortunately Caldwell left their complexity up to the imagination of the reader.
Of course they have their reasons, but the car becomes a metaphor for their lives , as within a short time they have completely destroyed it, while saying with each new dent or ding , that it is still okay because the car in still running ( mostly) but finally ending up right back where they started .
Still Jeeter daily pins his hopes on that never to be planted field, and I finished this book wondering if the whole theme was about hopelessness or hope ???
Just not feeling this book.
At times I thought this book was a comedy act.
Is it possible that these people would continue to starve instead of actually doing something about it....like working?!
I don't blame the children for leaving that life behind.
Nothing was changing and it wasn't "life's greatest mystery" as to why they never had anything.
Poverty and starvation are no laughing matters but when you do nothing to make a go of it, that's wrong.
This seems like more than ignorance to me.
With all these more or less accurate descriptions, what made writers like Faulkner or Saul Bellow prize the book, moreover, why is it included in Modern Library's list of the Best 100 Novels in the English Language and, finally, how come is it, even after almost a century, still readable?Maybe it is so because it belongs to a confusing, fascinating and rather underrated aesthetic category – the grotesque.
And far it goes:At the time he had made a bargain with Jeeter about Pearl, he said he might consider taking Ellie May if Jeeter would take her to Augusta and get a doctor to sew up her mouth.
Often hard to stomach, Caldwell's cast are more caricatures than characters.
For despite his faults, and there are many, the man has noble intentions...at the end of the day, he simply wants to farm his land, earn a living, and continue on in the tradition of his family, except he doesn't have a chance against a progressive world that has no sympathy for his suffering, an indifferent world that is all to happy to send him off to the cotton mill, literally.The Lester family are like a seedy and depressing version of the Beverly Hillbilies before striking oil.
O mal estar apodera-se do leitor logo nas primeiras páginas e não o abandona mais.
Os personagens desta história fizeram-me lembrar as do filme de Ettore Scola , " Feios, Porcos e Maus" .
Suspeito que estes também têm um atraso mental.
Em a " Estrada do Tabaco" o ambiente é o da Grande Depressão.
Na Geórgia , onde outrora havia plantações de tabaco e algodão só resta terra estéril e abandonada .
A miséria extrema torna os Lester seres abomináveis até à náusea.
Caldwell compôs um romance sinistro e inquietante mas que surpreendentemente consegue arrancar - nos boas risadas.
