https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/642423.Between_Two_Worlds
An enthralling story set in the years between the two World Wars. Part romance novel, part manifesto, this book captures the period in a very honest way. War, love, arts, culture, wealth, and poverty--this book has it all. Highly recommended.
To read about the rise of Mussolini and hitler in the midst of this presidential election was mind-blowing. Truly, there is nothing new under the sun.
Between Two Worlds is the second of Upton Sinclair's Lanny Budd novels.Like the first book, World's End, it provides a nice mix of history, adventure, and romance.
There is a mix of historical and fictional characters with the fiction firmly rooted in actual history.
The characters are witness to significant historical events including the rise of Fascism in Italy and of Hitler in Germany.
This episode is rather heavy on the romance.
Sinclair puts in lots of detail about life in Europe and the USA during that period.
The historical detail alone makes it a worthwhile read.

Un libro para paladear y disfrutar, que nos cuenta lo grande y lo pequeño de una época convulsa. La política, la diplomacia, los problemas pero también las fiestas, las modas, los amores.Todo eso y mucho más en un ESPECTACULAR libro para leer despacio y con atención. https://lahierbaroja.wordpress.com/20...
Excellent book.
Through Lanny and his friends, we get a personal view of the results of the war in France, Germany, Italy and England, and the incompatible requirements of all those people for reparations, rescue, reform, or revolution, land seizure and struggles for and against the spread of Communism, and the rise of Mussolini and Hitler filling vacuums left by the punitive and ineffective peace treaty.
It covered a lot of what was going on in the world after WWI, including the rise of fascism in Italy and the rise of the Nazis in Germany.
It was quite gripping.Reading up to that particular moment was fascinating in that the excesses of the “roaring 20s” were portrayed in almost identical language (reminder – this book was written in the 1940s) as the current fiscal crisis.
I could just as easily have been reading about the mortgage crisis in 2009 as the financial collapse of 1929.
A good sequel This is a good follow-up to the first Budd novel. There is not as much action and intrigue as book one and serves more to set up the next books in the series. Well worth the time.
History Repeats ItselfI had not read the first book in the series, but I was able to catch up fairly easily.
This is a story of the 1920's seen through the eyes of Lanny Budd, who is a young man of means living in a world of European privilege.
His family is not a conventional one and his life experiences reflect the world's political and social climate of the times.
Lanny is a devotee of music and art, but also interested in the political circumstances of the era.
However, I hope at sometime to summon the stamina to read the next in the series.
My knowledge of this time is scattered and Sinclair pieces many bits together, he even introduced TE Lawrence which was very exciting.
Its fascinating to read about England, France and Germany in the 1920's from the point of view of a sympathetic American.
It was a unique perspective, most of my reading has been British or Conservative American.
Fascinating also how Italian and German leaders rose from socialism to form unique Nationalism, violent, aggressive and insane.
My only critical note is at times Sinclair gets caught up telling his love stories, it is fair enough I guess in a young mans life.
Second book in Upton Sinclair's "Lanny Budd" novels and just as thoughtful, witty, and beautifully written as the first.
Sinclair wrote these one a year, regular as clockwork and amazing considering the length of each one (600+ pages).
It's incomprehensible to me how these books ever fell out of print, but I'm thankful the whole series is now back as e-books.
The third volume, "Dragon's Teeth," won a Pulitzer in 1942, so these are finely crafted novels.
For anyone (readers or writers) searching for an authentic voice and sense of the time during and between both world wars, these are the books for you.
"Between Two Worlds" by Upton Sinclair is one in a series of historical novels.
The main character, Lanny Budd, is always on the scene of important political, cultural, and economics events and runs into all the important people.
This novel begins after the end of WWI and includes with the 1929 financial crash.
The novel is packed with the historical events leading to the rise of Hilter, Mussolini, Communism, and the super rich.
I think I read several Sinclair Lewis's Lanny Budd novels many, many years ago.
The series makes good reading and good learning
The second book in the Lanny Budd series, set during the period between the Treaty of Versailles and the the stock market crash of 1929.
Wonderful and detailed insight into how Europe became increasingly fracture after the first war, the rise of fascism, and the rapacious consumption of the rich as they gathered more and more wealthy, creating a restless and resentful underclass.We also see how Lanny becomes involved in the art world and his connection to psychic mediums is established, which plays a huge role when he encounters Hitler as a spy for Franklin Roosevelt.
Ah, but that comes in later books!
So far, this book is not as fluid as the first of the series [[book: World's End by Upton Sinclair]]. The story seems more forced and the politics are far more confusing. Also, Lanny is growing up and so his little flirts with love are more like BronteLove than SalingerLove...and therefore suckier in my amateurish opinion.I am still enjoying it, however. I will likely finish this one and the Pulitzer Prize winning novel that follows [[book: Dragon's Teeth]].And yes 'suckier' like so IS a word, Mozilla Firefox!
I have read the whole Lanny Budd series 2 or 3 times in the past and am going through the series again. This book shows how Hitler got his start and the political events which alowed him to rise to power.
I am so enjoying this series -- even though I am reading them out of order. Sinclair provides a good story with lots of historical and sociological facts from pre-WWI through the Cold War.I am recommending all 11 of the books.You can find them on-line as ebooks.
Another amazing era eloquently perceived through the eyes of Lanny Budd. We should all strive to be a Lanny Budd.
The few years after the first world war that were of some peace, in this volume - second book in the series, World's End.
Dragged on at times
Good sequel.
Series
Love this series. Immensely readable and informative.
Lanny Budd Series #2Between Two Worlds was not as good as World's End, Lanny Budd #1. Too much Lanny in this one, not enough history. What a fascinating way to see 20th cent. in the US, EU and RU.
Could not think of a better read to learn history/civics of Europe and the US during the first half of the 20th century. The best series of fiction books ever read. Ever! Have started to read all (11) again because there was so much to absorb in 6500 pages. Written in the vernacular of the time, it is instructive as to our changing language use. Maybe I'v exhibited much enthusiasm here, but Sinclair is my newfound great fiction author. I'v got to find his other 90 some books.
Well worth looking beyond some of the flat characters—and it takes some effort to do this esp with the female ones. Great historical detail, superb pacing, and lucid descriptions, bring this period and key historical players to life and provide a social and political context that is too often overlooked. Sinclair has a superior gift in his use of facts and political and social detail and consequences to capture and sustain interest. It’s a long read but very worthwhile if you’re a 20th century history buff.
This novel details the events that take place after the first world war, leading up the rize of Nazi's in Germany. The crash of the stock market and it's impact on the main characters as well as the US and Europe are all detailed in the climax of this book. I love reading about history from the point of view of a story line and characters that I grow to know and care about. Great book.
