https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45102.Ship_of_Destiny
I almost absolutely loved reading this one, there were a few things I disliked which I’ll get into later but first let me dive talk a bit about the characters in this trilogy.I’ve praised Hobb on her characterizations strength in all my review of her books so far and I envisioned you’re going to see this as an occurring event.
It will save you a HUGE amount of time and believe me, that book deserves to be skip, finishing that one almost made me give up completely on Robin Hobb, and this is coming from someone who actually enjoyed the first and second book in the trilogy.Overall, The Liveship Traders is still a marvelous and satisfying trilogy to read, it’s so much better than the Farseer trilogy in my opinion.
“Do you not see how strange and wonderful that is? That all history balances on an affair of the human heart?”  Well, this was a bittersweet story.Hobb started this right from the end of Mad Ship and we saw all the story arcs going in farther away from each other instead of converging, at least initially. I was frustrated how all the story arcs were taking their on sweet time to reach the conclusion but once I finished reading this, I couldn't help but marvel on how beautifully she brought ever
Well, this was a bittersweet story.Hobb started this right from the end of Mad Ship and we saw all the story arcs going in farther away from each other instead of converging, at least initially.
I was frustrated how all the story arcs were taking their on sweet time to reach the conclusion but once I finished reading this, I couldn't help but marvel on how beautifully she brought everything together.
It was at times uncomfortable to read on but I guess that's what made Kennit such a complex character.
I loved her but then who doesn't love dragons!It was an amazing story and I had a great time reading it.
This made the ending so strong for me because I couldn’t wait to read more.
'The magic behind all this slowly began to reveal itself across the trilogy and, finally, in this book it was released.
(see what I did there)  It all came together in the end  (^^ I love this pic!)The climax was everything it needed to be.
Her development was wonderful; she went from an annoying brat to someone with real character: she grew up.
Some of the other characters had semi-predictable endings.
Ship of Magic- A seafaing 3.5 stars 2.
Another stunning trilogy by Robin Hobb.
How I loved the characters!
They are so vivid and real.
Althea and Brashen are to fall in love with.
Im no big fan of pirate tales, but Robin Hobb just enthralls me.
I just had the best start of the morning by finishing this book.
Woke up before 8 am ( on a day off .....) Decided to read the last few pages ( fell asleep last night on the couch ) and there were cookies next to me....healthy start of the day!Im still convinced everyone should just read Robin Hobb.
(This review contains some spoilers of book 1 and 2)Part of it is very typical Robin Hobb (after 6 books I’m allowed to say that right?) she makes characters so incredible real they become existing people.
It just has all the elements right: Well developed characters, check.
Marvelous world building, check.
Enough tension to keep you going, check.
In my mind, I see Paragon, waiting all those years on the beach for someone who will push him back into the winds.
And at last, the waiting is over, Paragon is sailing again and I loved every second of it!
No intentes alcanzar las estrellas cuando estés rodeada del ancho mar. Reseña general sin "spoilers":Con una trama que partía de una idea sencilla, esta autora me llevó por las corrientes de un mar agresivo y caprichoso hacia el surgimiento de un relato sinfónico. Un relato largo, que se toma su tiempo para golpear, pero que, cuando lo hace, el derramamiento de sangre es seguro. Y la sangre recuerda. La sangre es identidad, y una parte de mi identidad se fue a bordo de las naves que vuelan en s
Reseña general sin "spoilers":Con una trama que partía de una idea sencilla, esta autora me llevó por las corrientes de un mar agresivo y caprichoso hacia el surgimiento de un relato sinfónico.
Un relato largo, que se toma su tiempo para golpear, pero que, cuando lo hace, el derramamiento de sangre es seguro.
Esta escritora logra hacerme ver con cada uno de sus trabajos que personas creadas por la imaginación también pueden ser reales.
El desarrollo de los personajes es tan perfecto como sus diálogos.
I'm just so grateful that this series exists. It is phenomenal. I enjoyed every hour of my life that I spent on these three books. That is all.
And Hobb forces us to look at the redeemable qualities of those characters who, if not totally evil, are pretty close.
However, come the second half of this book, Robin Hobb peels back the layers to reveal who Kennit really is.
Hobb has a reputation for putting her characters through the mill, but this book took it that step further again and led me as the reader into some pretty uncomfortable places.Still, for all the dark and uncomfortable places we are forced to travel there are also some glorious moments,.
My reading of these three 900-page-books has been quite a journey, but in the end I'm glad I stuck to the end and got a great reading experience out of it.
I felt like the story became too silly and too dull, and that was after a great start with the first book that I rated 4 stars.
Robin Hobb rarely leaves you bored in this fantastic world of dragons, ships and traders - I think I just read the second book at the wrong time.
Fantasy lovers as well as people like me who are not that much into fantasy, but who loves a fantastical read once in a while.
Of course. This book is amazing.
I give this book 5 pirates... 5 dragons... no, wait... 5 stars! One of the most emotionally charged fantasy books I have read coming from the master at making fantasy feel real, The Magician, Robin Hobb!  Ship of Destiny (2001) is the third book in the Liveship Traders series by Robin Hobb. An absolute amazing finale! This comes from someone who gave two stars for it's first book, Ship of Magic. This book/trilogy is perfect for anyone who likes the fantasy genre with less action, more deep emot
One of the most emotionally charged fantasy books I have read coming from the master at making fantasy feel real, The Magician, Robin Hobb!
Ship of Destiny (2001) is the third book in the Liveship Traders series by Robin Hobb.
This comes from someone who gave two stars for it's first book, Ship of Magic.
I HATED the first book of Liveship Traders but I ended up LOVING the trilogy.
It's all worth it and more in the end!The character development is AMAZING!
:DIn the end it's not about loving or hating the characters, it's about understanding them, and you will understand them.
It's not often that after reading a 2* book by an author I will continue on with their work but with Hobb I am so thrilled that I did go on to the Liveship books after the Farseer ones because truly she's a miracle writer and her ability to craft convincing, beautiful and stunning characters, worlds and ideas is unparalleled.
Whilst this book had more of a political emphasis than some of the previous ones it didn't lose my interest or irritate me with the amount of politics shown because it still focused in on those characters we know and love.
Ship of Destiny is a great conclusion to a trilogy that brought me much joy.
I loved watching the characters evolve.
Mostly Malta, and yes, I did stop wanting to strangle her eventually and it was with great pleasure that I watched her evolve into one of my favourite characters in this book.This trilogy has so many kick-ass women protagonists!
I can't recommend it enough.Now comes my big but...and it's more a general but and less about the Liveship Trilogy.After six Robin Hobb books, I'm not sure if I should continue reading her work.
But in Liveships there's no one central character: in the first book alone there's Althea, Brashen, Ronica, Keffria, Malta, Vivacia, Wintrow, Kennit, Kyle, Paragon, Amber, Maulkin, Shreever...
But things are heaped against them as they aren't against the men: it could be said that the society Hobb structures around them is what brings that upon them, but it still felt like a barrier to my reading than a natural part of the world.I've discussed a lot of ways the books could be more intriguing, with various people.
I'll write a review when I'm not crying.
4.5 en realidad.Creo que es hora de colocar esta imagen que hace años que conservo como uno de mis tantos fondos de pantalla en mi computadora (sí, tengo una serie de fondos que se van deslizando DÉJENME SER) y que resulta que, sin saberlo, es la portada de uno de los libros de esta saga cuya autora me cautivó desde el principio.
A perfect blend of intricate world building, a rich plot, and most importantly fleshed out characters.One of the things I love about fantasy is that it is able to take true to life problems and injustices and put a fresh face to them.
Stop reading if you absolutely don't want to know...There was a brutal rape (I'm telling you because you should know going in, in case it's something that you absolutely don't want to read about) that happens in the book that made me question whether to give the book 4 or 5 stars.
Makes your vision blurry from reading it constantly.
Relationships suffer because you ignore other people to read said book.
All of this happened to me in the course of reading Ship of Destiny.
And I would not have it any other way.Ms. Hobb played my emotions like a fiddle.
As always, Hobb's writing is exquisite.
She is a master and a wizard and I adore her.If you've read Farseer and want to skip ahead to Tawny Man, don't do it.
Stop and read this series first.
It's magnificent and there are nuggets scattered throughout all 3 books for Farseer fans.
Reading Ship of Destiny fulfilled the majority of my expectations.
Being the third and final book of the Liveship Traders trilogy, I was hoping it would do just that.
Actually, Ship of Destiny exceeded some of my hopes with an open-ended finish.
Matching the standards of the first two books can be no easy task for Robin Hobb, but it’s something I’ve learned not to fear.
Somehow the tension provided in these three books only managed to increase as the story continued, which blows my mind.
A trilogy makes up one complete story, but it also provides a tangent to separate story just down the road.
All three books in the series 4.5*'s. I'm still surprised how much I enjoyed this series after struggling with the Farseer Trilogy and the nightmare of a lead character that is Fitz. This series wasn't without it's flaws and I hated the way Althea's situation was dealt with. That said Hobb did a great job telling this tale and while there were no big surprises it was entertaining from start to finish.
My least favourite character in the first instalment developed to such an extent that in this volume I wished I could be more like her.
Other characters have changed so much in such amazing ways over the course of the trilogy that I was simply left in awe of their journeys.
God damn, that moment is going to be one I wish I could relive for ever and ever.
(view spoiler)[While the ending of the Farseer trilogy had me weeping for Verity and poor Fitz, the happy ending here made me cry simply because it was so lovely.
I cannot in good conscience say that I loved the characters in Liveships Traders or the plot more that the ones in Farseer, the only superiority I saw was in the structure of Liveships Traders and the feeling that Robin Hobb was more at ease with her world and prose that she didn't feel she needed to go on and on about useless details or insignificant happenings or just wandering around in the forest.
Finally there is a Hobb book with a thoroughly satisfying end!
Ship of Destiny, the final piece of a very complex puzzle which reveals so many secrets.
The story continues Althea's quest for her Liveship while the other story line follows the newly awoken dragon.
While some parts of the story were predictable, there were so many well placed twists and revelations that leave you stunned and a few times even sickened.
The narration is excellent as always.
Overall, a great read, not only for Hobb fans, but for any book lover thanks to Hobb's reliance on real life situations and emotions.
***********************************************************Updated Review - Review of all three books in the Robin Hobb The Liveship Traders Trilogy 3 Books Collection Set.I've read the The Farseer Trilogy and throughout the years since I read it parts of the story would keep coming back to me and I couldn't quite remember what book I was recalling it from.
The other thing I loved about this book; when you think that you know how it's going to end, Robin Hobb takes you in another unexpected direction.
I want to keep reading to see where their lives will take them, but I can't and as they say all good stories must come to an end.
A fine, although a bit rushed finish to a remarkable fantasy trilogy.The character development is still strong.
From that point on in the book I had to force myself to finish it and I managed to.
It felt rushed and sloppy and out of character, especially for my aforementioned favourite who abandones her lifelong ambition in favor of marrying and standing by her man, the idea of which she abhorred in previous novels.But the ending really doesn't do justice to this terrific series.
Overall, these novels are certainly one of the best works of fantasy that I have read.
4.75⭐Damn near perfect.
4.75⭐️Damn near perfect.
But ultimately, this ties into my main issue with the novel's conclusion ....- I hated, loathed, absolutely despised the Althea/Kennit rape plot.
It's just not that great to look back and realize you're reading this arc that almost veers into trope, and then at the end you're betrayed even further into that trope with Althea's rape.
I loved reading his sections because, again, Hobb can write characters well, but I'm left with a slightly sour taste in my mouth at the conclusion of the series.- Loved, loved, loved Malta's continual transformation in this book, her relationship with the Satrap, and the eventual reveal of the Reyn/Malta deformities as dragon-born.
5 amazing stars. This has without a doubt become my favorite trilogy of all time. I loved everything about these books; the characters, the setting, the story. Robin Hobb is simply a master at what she does and I can't wait to continue on with the other trilogies set in this world.
A great conclusion to a wonderful trilogy.I loved the development of the characters, especially that of Malta; I loved the liveships and the wonderful description of their journey towards self-discovery, especially that of Paragon.
The way she reacted, the way Vivacia reacted to it as well as the way Althea's relationship with Brashen and Paragon continued, it all seemed a little unrealistic to me.
That's why I only gave it 4 stars.All in all I loved it and even though I was a little dissapointed with some of the things in the end, I still find it a brilliant trilogy.
Hobb is a genius, and I'm so going to miss these characters. Bingtown society was fascinating, and the exploration of tradition and human nature was phenomenal. Trigger warning for rape.
