https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6536233-the-tudor-rose
I loved Elizabeth, who is constantly fearing for the safety of her brothers-The Princes in the Tower, fearing what her uncle Richard III has in store for her and unwilling to marry a rebel from the house of Lancaster.
However, when she hears the story of her brothers being murdered, she is determined to join the rebellion on the side of Henry Tudor and bring down Richard III.The Tudors fascinate me because you could not make up a story as juicy as what they really got up to!
The story leads us to believe in Henry that the man is a wicked imposter but Elizabeth wants to meet him herself to be convinced that her brother is truly dead.
The author covered lots of details and historical moments, but she didn't go into great detail, so knowing the history helps.
The only part she made sure to cover completely was The Battle of Bosworth (which was a conversation between Elizabeth and her court after the fact.) The story starts with Elizabeth's marriage preparations to the French Prince, followed by her father's death, her time in sanctuary, Richard's court and her life with Henry.
Elizabeth wasn't in love with Richard and naive, but the author covers feelings in a realistic way.
I know I need to try to read books without getting my hackles up about the general hatred of Richard, but REALLY?!?! Where is there any historic evidence he was trying to hook up with his niece? Nowhere, that's where.
The roles are much too stereotypical and lack much depth.The first few chapters of The Tudor Rose are each from a varying character’s viewpoint of the events during Richard III’s reign (such as the princes in the tower) which lead up to the Battle of Bosworth.
Not a major issue, but one a history buff will notice.Although not an in-depth look at Elizabeth of York as the title would suggest; The Tudor Rose is still a solid slice of historical fiction presenting an overview of Elizabeth Woodville, Richard III, the princes in the tower, the heir pretenders, etc.
Through Elizabeth's eyes, we see history develop as she takes us through her father, Edward IV's death and its dire consequences.
The imprisonment of the two princes in the Tower (Elizabeth's brothers) by Richard of Gloucester's and later when he ceases the crown and becomes Richard III, the attempts on his life and eventual death at the hands of Henry of Richmond.
Henry VII, the first Tudor King needs her to secure the crown as much as Richard did.
The writer weaves history and fiction almost seamlessly.I love the way she develops and explores the characters in this book.
I do not see how any writer knows what actually went on in privacy between a married couple.
The first Tudor Queen Elizabeth died in childbed in 1509.
The last Tudor Queen, another Elizabeth refused to marry or have children and died in 1603.
The throne then went to James IV Of Scotland through her father's sister, Margaret.This book of course ends long before that with Elizabeth of York's love for her remaining son, who was to become Henry VIII
The story is well written and historical information well documented. I enjoyed this book and would recommend it as an easy read.
This book is a thoughtful exploration of her hopes and (mostly) disappointments, both through events and the deeds of people around her.
The rumor of the murders in the tower was pretty forcibly put forward in this book, and Elizabeth took it so seriously that she blamed Richard without a second thought.
It was an attempt to avenge her brothers' murder, I think; she felt her contribution was vital to his success, though it seems Henry did not particularly agree.
Henry was certainly a major disappointment to Elizabeth.
Margaret Barnes does an admirable job in bringing Elizabeth to life and giving substance to a queen buffeted by events.
Tho based on an interesting woman in Tudor history, Elizabeth of York, the one that literally started a dynasty and gave birth to the scandalous Henry the Eighth, it fell flat.
Her father, King Edward, has died and his son, another Edward is to follow him on the throne, but a greedy uncle Richard imprisons both him and Elizabeth's other brother in the tower and takes the throne for himself.
The princes, Elizabeth's brothers, disappear, presumed to be murdered by Uncle Richard the king.
The novel ends with Henry the Eighth marrying Katharine of Aragon.The part I enjoyed most was when Elizabeth was plotting against her uncle Richard and dressing as a boy.
This book was made more enjoyable by being in England while I read it and visiting key locations mentioned throughout. Also tied some aspects of British history together for me.
Ms. Campbell jogs one's memory of history and in a delightful style, she tells the reader of the story of "The Tudor Rose".
It is the story of an arranged marriage which joined the two houses together to become the house of Tudor.
Very sad story, as English history is bloody and the story is of the life of Elizabeth, Queen of England, mother of Henry VIII.
Then the fight for the crown with the return of Henry VII from France to take the crown, marrying Elizabeth to join together two powerful Royal families.
This is a story of many arranged marriages and of power,and betrayal.
So this is my interpretation of Elizabeth's obvious character change after reading this book...That marriage to an unloving and business-minded man like Henry squashed her Plantagenent spirit slowly and simply over the years.
Eventually she accepted the kind of woman and queen she needed to be for Henry, and became that person, as her personal sacrifice for the peace and prosperity of her country.
But I think she always held a glimmer of hope that things might change between her and Henry, and only after the death of her son Arthur and Henry's quick distraction from grief by thoughts of losing Katherine's dowry, did Elizabeth finally accept that her hope was all in vain.
This is one of the areas of history I love to read books around.
Margaret weaves a fantastic story around a very turbulent point in English History.
All the characters were compelling and a joy to read.
I would recommend to anyone who enjoys books around the Plantagenet's and the Tudor's.
Elizabeth of York is a compelling character to create a story around as so much dramatic change happened in her life of which she is often at the centre.
Margaret creates a relatable and likable version of her that had me eagerly reading to see where she would end in Elizabeth's story.
This is the new Sourcebooks edition due out in September 2009. Once again, you'll find my reading guide in the back. While still in the vein of Tudor-related topics, this takes us away from the focus of Henry VIII and his myriad wives, with an intimate and compassionate look at his mother. MCB is at the top of her game yet again!
Possibly the worst book I've ever read? No, that's too harsh. But dull dull dull dull dull. The topic is exciting. The history is exciting. The novel made me want to put my head through the wall. The characters were badly written. The dialogue was badly written. The plot was badly paced. Was there a plot? I fell asleep.
I have now read three books on Elizabeth of York, all different. Makes you wonder! None of the authors allowed truth to get in the way of a good story.
excellent fictionalized story of the War of the Roses and tge parents of Henry XIII. .... page turner
A good read that kept me moving but very predictable. I felt I could predict the next storyline.
Tudor Rose follows the tumultuous events of the life of Elizabeth of York, one of the Plantagenet and the rightful heir to the throne after her father dies and her uncle Richard has her two brothers murdered.
Once a young girl with high hopes of being married off to French royalty, dreams that are never realized as the nature of political alliance complicates happiness, Elizabeth (Bess) is thrown into drama and intrigue when, just as her young brother Edward is to be crowned King, he is sent to the Tower of London.
The novel chronicles Elizabeth’s life from the time she is a young girl of 17 until just before her death.
Elizabeth has history thrust upon her as she must decide whether to be a loyal Yorkist and support her uncle or whether she will defy him and pledge herself as wife to Henry Tudor, of the Lancastrian line if he will return to England from his exile and defeat her uncle.
Elizabeth, Bess, was the eldest daughter of Henry VI and sister to the princes who were imprisoned in the Tower by their uncle Richard after the death of Henry.
When Richard proposes marriage to her, she turns to her aunt Margaret who wants her to marry her son Henry, who is in exile in France.
When Henry arrives and conquers Richard, Bess is hoping that Henry will be her knight in shining armor.
She is returned to London, but it is two years before he gets around to marrying her, and another two years before she is crowned.

I was looking forward to this book, but I came away disappointed. There are several other more recently written fiction and non-fiction that are much better. With the recent research that has been done, it shows the HenryVII and Elizabeth had a loving relationship. Yes, Henry was very involved in the "business" of running of the counrty, but after 30 years of war this had to be important. I would recommend other books for more historical accuracy.
I read a lot about this historical time period because it has so many interesting twists and turns. This book was an easy read and enjoyable but not great. A good beach book -- easy to follow with some good character development ( different view from other books about the similar period).
Campbell Barnes wrote in the 1940s-1950s, mostly what is now called historical fiction. I remember seeking out her books at the library as her writing felt more lively and interesting than many others who wrote about 'the royals."
I didn't finish this book. I couldn't quite get past the writing style to enjoy reading it. It felt more disjointed than other historical fiction books I've read, and I found myself consistently losing interest.
Really good historical novel of the beginning of the Tudor dynasty. I enjoyed it!
Elizabeth of York is an interesting historical figure. She is the mother of Arthur and Henry VIII. While I enjoyed the book, it was boring at times.
It was okay - I liked that it shed Elizabeth in a different like to another book I've read. However, it was a little hard to follow.
Elizabeth, usually called Bess in the novel, is seen as a sacrificial lamb for the sake of England as she sets her hopes on Henry Tudor.
After England's years of the Wars of the Roses, Henry Tudor ends the Wars with his defeat of Richard at the Battle of Bosworth.
Instead we see everything through her daughter Elizabeth's eyes, as we see her through her younger days, then through her child birthing and we are privy to her many thoughts regarding the passionless husband of hers.Contrary to popular (factual?) belief there is a loving relationship between Margaret Beaufort, Henry's mother, and Elizabeth portrayed throughout.
