https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18646.Galileo_s_Daughter
Well, it’s really about Galileo.
The daughter thing is a hook, and I found that to be the weakest part of the book.
Galileo, in this historical memoir, has had three children by a woman not his wife.
The daughter of the title sends him letters, usually including requests for money.
The Catholic Church is the pre-eminent political institution of its time, and thus, Galileo must deal with the reality he inhabits, trying to find ways around the silliness of revealed truth.
Not a must read, and feel free to skip the letters from his daughter, but a worthwhile read nonetheless.
The next daughter - also placed in the convent - was a depressive, and Maria attempted in her life to combine her duties as a nun with caring for both of them.
Maria's letters show the wavering stages of approval and disapproval of Galileo's conclusions by the Catholic Church.
Galileo insisted throughout his gruelling trial (possibly involving torture) that he was a good Catholic, that his faith was true.
His struggles to reconcile his scientific findings with his Catholic beliefs are particularly well drawn and poignant, although the descriptions of his trial make for harrowing reading.
Yet today so many are comfortable ignoring the facts of climate change, focusing instead on those two inches of debate.
And just as Galileo’s two inch discrepancy was due to air resistance, so too will science address all the complex facets inherent in the vigorous and healthy debate of climate change.
Someone who played with a telescope instead of someone who changed the world.But, in addition to all this, perhaps even above all of this, the book is a beautiful story of the love between a father and his daughter.
What seemed to have animated the book is Sobel's desire to argue there there is no reason to see science and faith as opposed, and to present Galileo as a devout and obedient son of the Catholic Church, particularly as demonstrated through his loving relationship with a supportive, devout daughter dedicated to the religious life.
Nope, it was all just a "tragic mutual misunderstanding." That all reads to me not so much as apologia as satire, yet Sobel does convince me that Galileo truly didn't want a breach with the Church and was a man of faith and science.
As the narrative progresses, Suor Maria Celeste quietly makes her presence known to us and Galileo's friends.
History has saved her letters to Galileo, and Sobel, while letting Galileo move the narrative, let's Suor Maria use her own voice to say her own thoughts.What I loved about this book was how Sobel made the period come to life.
Suor Maria's letters of her convent life, her daily housekeeping transactions and solicitations to and on behalf of her father and relatives during this backwater time period seem so normal.
He did send occasional gifts to the convent (along with his mending and papers for his daughter Maria to transcribe).
Most of the letters involve Maria lavishly praising her father, abasing herself for her own ignorance, thanking him for any small tokens, worrying about his health, and offering occasional thoughts on his projects.
The book provides a well-written overview of Galileo's life and discoveries, so if that's your reason for reading, you may very well enjoy it.
Personally, I was hoping to read more about the life of a 17th century woman involved in science, so this was a disappointment.
As the daughter of a physicist, I couldn't resist this book. It is a biography of both Galileo and his older daughter, who was a nun in a local monastery. Her letters to Galileo are the foundation of the book. I enjoyed reading the history of Galileo's trial for heresy and also the day-to-day events that mostly comprise his daughter's letters. A fascinating look into the life of Galileo and 17th-century Italy.
After 150 pages I decided if this book didn’t end by smashing the patriarchy, I didn’t want to read anymore.
If the other children are girls, bright and dutiful as they may be, put those inconvenient lesser beings in a convent, which operates like an adult orphanage, a workhouse made up of cast-off daughters who live in poverty, as they would in any poorhouse, where they can labor for the church without further ado and through no choice of their own.
The other daughter spent her days depressed and in the convent infirmary for want of a sharp object.
If you are really have to know everything about Galileo, you’d probably like this book, which was not uninteresting.
Galileo, Galileo, Galileo Figaro: MAGNIFICO-O-O-O! SCIENCE AND RELIGION My biggest question, after reading this book, is what did Galileo believe?Science has canonized him as one of their patron saints - and rightfully so. The man was a genius. But he was also a good Catholic - or at least he appeared to be. When the church told him to do something, he did it.Yes, the church treated him completely unfairly. And when one is arguing against those speaking with the authority of God, it's difficult
My biggest question, after reading this book, is what did Galileo believe?Science has canonized him as one of their patron saints - and rightfully so.
Because it seems to me Scientists today make Galileo out to be the enemy of the church, and I don't believe he was.Don't take this the wrong way - I'm no enemy of Science.
Scientists, especially, should know that the world is much more complicated than that.And, while we're talking about Science, it was brought up that Galileo's most enduring discovery wasn't his star-gazing.
Her surviving correspondence with Galileo is the main ingredient used by Sobel to describe the dynamics of this unique father-daughter relationship.
Galileo was lucky to have so many admirers in Europe, including even a few high ranking cardinals who felt enlightened when reading his works.One thing that bothers me was that Galileo did his best to ensure that Dialogue would not cause any ruckus.
This is a biography of Galileo, told in part through letters written to him by his illegitimate daughter, a cloistered nun and Galileo's confidante.
While the familial relationship was interesting, I didn't feel as if the correspondence added much to the narrative, and it seemed as if most of the biographical information about Galileo came from other sources.
I was interested in Galileo's treatment by the church, but at this point I feel like most of that information is common knowledge, and I almost felt as if Sobel's retelling of the story was like reading a high school textbook.
There's not much more to it.In the book, Galileo's daughter, Suor Maria Celeste, having been consigned to a convent as a preteen, is now a nun who rarely sees her father and communicates with him via letters.
Her letters to him have survived and many are included in the book, but they don't shed as much light on Galileo's life as I'd hoped.
I got really, really bored with the narrative, which was a very straightforward telling of the events of Galileo's life.
In my opinion, nonfiction is always best when it reads like a novel and not like a history book.
La vida de Galileo es una de las más emocionantes e intensas de la historia de la ciencia.
Sin embargo, como se amenaza al lector en el título, la hija de Galileo, Sor María Celeste, juega un papel muy importante, y es que la relación padre-hija era muy intensa y está recogida en numerosas cartas.
A mi personalmente estas cartas me aportan poco, más allá del "padre e hija estaban muy unidos", puesto que en la mayor parte de ellas se tratan aspectos irrelevantes de la historia.
It seems ludicrous in today's age of technology and incremental achievements that one man could ever accomplish as much as Galileo, who discovered almost half of the planets we know of today and rubbished claims held scientifically for thousands of years.Galileo Galilei was born into a time and a place that could not have been more perfect for him.
We learn as well that Galileo was a generous benefactor of the Convent, and that Suor Maria Celeste served as an apothecary and was sought out by the abbesses to write important letters.Although the title of the book is ’Galileo’s Daughter’ and the focus is on Suor Maria Celeste, it is Galileo’s life that occupies centre stage.
Suor Maria Celeste’s letters provide another and different insight into Galileo’s life as well as raising quite a few questions about the treatment of daughters (especially illegitimate daughters in the 17th century).
I had grasped more details in the last several years before reading this book, but it gives me an overflowing wealth of information about his life and a much better idea of the history and details of the controversy that led to his trial in Rome.
This book was clearly a labor of love, well researched and with sympathetic, very human depictions of Galileo, his daughter Sister Maria Celeste, and other folks.
But the angle of this book, of Galileo's life being viewed through the eyes of his daughter, who shared his enormous intellect and capabilities and with whom he had a loving relationship, didn't really...work.
Intelligent and accomplished as she seemed to be, she was a cloistered nun her entire (short) life, and, while her letters to Galileo survived, his letters to her did not; both these factors limited Maria Celeste as a main player in the narrative, despite the author's efforts.
A fascinating walk through the story of Galileo and his discoveries, as well as an exploration of how much of a key figure his cloistered daughter was in his life.
I was engrossed in the story, and the characters were brought to life well.Given the actions of some in the church, it's also written from a considerate and sympathetic point of view towards the Catholic church.
This feels right, because of the faith of Galileo himself.
It also inspired me to go have a look at the sky for myself!Highly recommended for those interested in Galileo, astronomy, history of science, church history, or the interaction between science and faith.
Galileo placed his two young daughters at the San Mateo convent, where they devoted themselves to the lives of cloistered nuns and lived their lives in abject poverty, despite the loving financial and emotional support of their father.
The older daughter took upon the name 'Maria Celeste' as an ode to her father's devotion to celestial objects and it is through her letters that we get a glimpse of a daughter's relationship with her famous father, and their loving support to each other.
It was like taking a guided tour of some great historical building, only for the guide to rush you past the most interesting looking rooms.The idea of using his daughter's letters is a very good one and serves to add context for the cares of everyday life and the ways of seeing the world which surrounded Galileo, but in many other respects we are left with too little information.For example, we are told he greatly improved the spyglass and developed it into the telescope.
Generally we are left with little context of the intellectual life of the time which is sorely needed to understand how Galileo both fit into and diverged from it.
I admit, I didn't know much about the man other than that he was the father of modern sciences and was censored by the Catholic church, but I didn't know the details of that.[return][return]This book takes a fascinating approach to Galileo by studying him through his eldest daughter's eyes.
The eldest, dubbed Suor Maria Celeste as a nun, had all of the intelligence and wit of her father.
This book delves heavily into Galileo's Dialogues, a volume that earned him the acclaim of his fellow scientists and the scorn of the Pope (his former friend), and resulted in his prolonged captivity during a time of virulent plague.[return][return]I'm very glad I read this, though at times it was challenging for me.
although galileo was punished (not physically, more like house arrest and his works banned) he couldn't help keep writing and exploring ideas that weren't always accepted or even allowed.
he was a prolific man and a very religious one; even though he was discovering things beyond this planet and finding its logic, not once did he doubt his faith and his belief in God. his persecution was the result of a confusion about his work, the Dialogues, and how to understand it, even though he was stating that it was a hypothesis and not a fact.
galileo's daughter's letters to him make an appearance and give a disctinct angle on his life.
It is quite rare that I quit reading a book, but today this one falls in to that category. It has taken me 2 weeks to get 100 pages into it, and I still can't figure out why it was recommended. If someone has read it and has some great insight as to why I should pickup it up off the floor, where I tossed it, let me know! If any 'friends' want to give it a try let me know.. it is yours!!
2.5 Stars. This is definitely a biography of Galileo and not his daughter, although she is mentioned a bit (as ANY decent biographer would do when writing about a brilliant scientist who also had a genius child). So, because of the misleading title I was mostly disappointed, despite Galileo's contributions in physics and science.
It valued consistency, and in Galileo’s case, there were condemnations of Copernicus who a half century earlier had refuted, on observable and mathematical grounds, the notion of a earth-centered solar system.
Galileo was widely respected, though, and in l616 he got the green light from Cardinal Bellarmine to go ahead with his research, but he could promote his ideas as only “theory” not fact or truth.
He was given a relatively lenient punishment, provided he recanted and admitted his position was false one..Galileo had no argument with the Church overall, just on this particular point.
My only quibble with this book is that I didn't get an impression it succeded in its attemt to raise the daughter above being of marginal significance in Galileo's life.I listened to the audio version of the book narrated by George Guidall, whose performance added authenticity to the archaic and flowery style not only of Suor Maria Celeste's letters but also of the book in general.Parts I and II, which focus on Galileo's attempts to finish and publish his Dialogue on the Two Chief World Systems: Ptolemaic and Copernican, were a bit too slow for my liking and much less interesting than Parts III –VI, the emphasis of which is on the conflict between Church and Galileo.
This is a well researched historical novel about the relationship between Galileo and his eldest daughter Virginia Galilei (1600-1634).
Virginia became Suor Maria Celeste and her sister Livia became Suor Archangela.
She did not go into much detail about the works of Galileo as there are well known and the book was about his relationship with the daughter.
The book has relevance today as science is still under attack by political and religious fundamentalist even thought this is not the year 1600.
Though the story is predominantly about Galileo and his life and struggles, it is told in part from the perspective of Suor Maria Celeste in the letters that she writes regularly to her father.Galileo, born in 1564 in Italy, went on to become the foremost scientist of his day, inventing the first telescope and arguing for the Copernican physical view of the world that placed the Sun at the center of the universe, rather than the Earth.
Though a devout Christian, Galileo was ultimately placed on trial for his views, found guilty of heresy, and forced to spend his remaining years under house arrest.Sobel's novel is unique in the way that it structures the story of Galileo around the letters that his daughter wrote to him and their love and loyalty towards each other.
This was an interesting (and very detailed and well-researched) biography of Galileo mixed in with details about every day life in 17th-century Italy from the surviving letters from his oldest daughter, a nun in a local monastery.
The title implies that the book is about her, but really, it's about him.It was fascinating to read about Galileo's trial for heresy and how he tried to balance his Catholic faith (which meant abiding by the Pope's edicts) and the conflicting scientific observations he made about the sun being the center of the solar system.
The dual poles of filial love and dogmatic obstinacy offer a unique perspective into the tragic life and death of this titan of the early-modern world.
