https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/947642.This_I_Remember
ER's second memoir, covering the years between FDR's courtship and his death and her reentry into public life afterward. More guarded than the first memoir, but still unusually candid in her reflections and her assessments of people and events. A primary source for many other biographies.
This part of US History has always particularly interested me, thanks to Miss Kohler, my exceptional high school history teacher.
Especially interesting after recently seeing "The King's Speech", was the account Eleanor Roosevelt writes of the King and Queen visiting Washington, and her visit with them during WWII.
Also evident is Mrs. Roosevelt's sense of humor when she writes this of some official dinner..."after dinner, which was not a hilarious meal, and during which I made valiant attempts at conversation..." Amazing that I picked this book up for free on a library giveaway shelf.
Next up Doris Kearns Goodwin's book about the Roosevelts.
I love Eleanor Roosevelt! Summers in Maine, visiting her 'cottage' on Campobello, always bring me close to her and her works. This was a fun read and made me feel close to her as a person, a mother, and a wife. What an incredible role model!
excellent, inspiring
This book was good, but I really just couldn't get through it. I love the history in but I found it quite boring, and wasn't able to finish it.
Omg such a beautiful biography. Loved it
A present from Jenna...
This is a woman who did not waste one moment of her life. She was so curious about everything and everyone, and so honest. The last few pages were heart-breaking. Very inspiring.
Interesting read. It gives a detailed look into what life is like living in the White House before and during war.
I have all the respect in the world for Eleanor Roosevelt. In my opinion she was one of few best first ladies. So I'm sorry to say that this book was pretty boring. It was more like a social register than a memoir. Full of names, some famous but now lost to history. Many other names that most people have never heard of.Too bad. I was looking forward to this one.
A little rambling, and she mentions several incidents and people, whom I'm sure I would be interested in if I had lived in her time, but not having done so, I got a little lost at times with the who's and what's, but I loved hearing from her about the lessons she learned in life.
