https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2042884.Chicken_Every_Sunday
Let me just say, "Mother" (originally from Virginia) is ever the contemporary woman, way ahead of her time.
Some of the best and funniest stories are: "Man Hunt" / "God's Day and the Boarders" / "Father Slept on the Floor" / "More Sin at Midnight." Fun stuff!!!In addition to humor, Chicken Every Sunday: My Life with Mother's Boarders is atmospheric and transporting, quite telling of social-customs and culture during the early-to-mid nineteen-hundreds, Arizona.
In many ways, it was a simpler, more delightful and innocent time.
Aside from a bit of derogatory language and profiling, there's not a bad story in the bunch.
I found this book delightful. It reminded me of all that I loved about Cheaper by the Dozen...it's quick and witty character development and turn of the century narrative style had me from page 1. I can't say that I wish I had her life, but I will admit to wishing mine were as colorful! (And okay, I suppose I do wish I were a little more like Rosemary's mother...what a lady!)
A witty autobiography/memoir written in 1945 by a woman who grew up in her mother's rooming house in Tucson Arizona during the days when the 'desert cure' was prescribed by illnesses right and left.
The family itself is zany and quirky, the boarders add another element of wackiness that make this family's life seem like one big circus and picnic.
This is the kind of book you can find at the library book sale in the humor section: believe me, it's worth every penny of the 50 cents you pay for it.
I really enjoyed this book.
It is full of wonderful character sketches.
I find it interesting that the characters of some of the boarders are better developed than those of the children.
Mother of course is my favorite.
She made me start thinking of all the ways to earn a little extra money.
I think my favorite chapter was the one that talked about the secret to successful boarding.
I think it is so true of anyone.
I think we all know of homes we are welcome in and those we are not.
I could have enjoyed a few more stories.
Father seemed like a bit of a shyster: he never heard of a deal that he didn't want in on, and didn't scruple to invest every penny of the family money in the shadiest of schemes.
I loved the stories of her particular way of doing things, like when she watched and took notes as her first house was being built and decided to become her own architect and contractor when the family moved to a different city.
Delectable-sounding entrees and desserts, plus (since they were in Arizona) some of the yummiest descriptions of Mexican cooking that I've ever read.
I really liked this book I thought it had some good humor in it.
I enjoyed the meaning behind it and the service it taught of.
I think that this will be a book that I may read again someday.
I really liked some of the advise that it gave, I used some of it.
The one about the onion works pretty well.
If you can remember it.
I thought it funny how the mom would put her boarders before her children in that they would sleep on the porch.
Read to find out.
Great book.
A book I have picked up and read more than once, first when I was a child and more than once as an adult. The boarders in this book are a great variety and are looked at from the child's point of view. It is interesting reading about the mother, she is a superhero. The straightforward manner in which the mother looks after her family, fighting against all adversity, especially her spouse is inspirational.
Fun little historical memoir, pleasant in an antiquated way. It's a fun and funny window into life in "old Tucson", in the days when the West was being settled and everyone from the rest of the country was running off to sunny Arizona for weather cures. Sweet and light.
Mother, always remembering her hardscrabble early years as the daughter of plantation owners ruined by the Civil War, makes her own money by taking in boarders and catering Mexican-style food for various charity dos.
I found it amazing to realize that in the early 20th century, Tucson was still a brand-new city, and that many people had personal memories of the Civil War. People were still trying to get gold out of abandoned mines, and the days of Earp were not so far in the past.
My husband and I lived in the Chicken Every Sunday house for three years while we were newlywed grad students at U of A in the early 1980s.
It was fun reading the book all these years after having lived there and I could easily picture many of the scenes from the book in my mind.
This memoir is well written overall and entertaining to read.
I recommend this book for its gentle humor and anecdotal tales of growing up in Tucson in the early 20th century, but do be forewarned about the racism and sexism.
XX I looked for this book after reading a review by Pamela.
Published in 1943, I was very lucky to locate a copy, order and receive it, and find time to read it before my trip to see my son Mac and his family in Tucson.
And it is a wonderful, special look at Tucson in the late '30's, early '40's.
If you love Tucson, AZ you need to read this book.
It has not been reprinted, but if you run across a copy, get it - it is a special trip into the tiny, insular village that became the 27th largest county in America.
This is a peach of a book, and is an excellent bit of Americana as well.
It is one of my favorite nonfiction books.The author's parents were settlers in Arizona in the early 1900s.
Her father was a wheeler-dealer who was fond of speculating with his money.
So, to provide for her family, the mother began takin in boarders.
From that point on, the fun began.
This is a wonderful book which deserves much more than to be forgotten.
After reading "When Books Went to War" I decided to read/reread the four books that were most popular with the GIs. This is one I'd never read.
It was fun, it was clean - yet not without double entendres and minor risque elements.
The descriptions of food (including Mexican food!) and the mother's managing ways probably reminded the soldiers of their own mothers.
The details about the early development of Tucson were interesting, too.
I'd compare this to "Cheaper By the Dozen" or "Mama's Bank Account." It's too bad this isn't widely available - had to get it from an academic library.
This was different from what I expected after reading the first few lines. I thought it would be funnier. I was enthralled that a book published in 1943 would start out talking so frankly about pre-marital sex.It was the story of all the boarders Rosemary's mother took in over the years and all the business "mis"adventures her father had.
Absolutely amazing. I've read it a hundred times over, and I still love it. I don't know what the appeal is- it seems, at first glance, vaguely interesting at best, but it is definitely a favorite of mine.
Fun comfort read, though a little dated.
ASE book
I wanted to read this story because the Armed Services Edition of the book was apparently wildly popular with GIs during World War II.
Author Rosemary Taylor lovingly describes her mother's cooking, the landscape of the Arizona desert, her father's many financial adventures, and she also relates some charming stories about the many boarders her ever-industrious mother took into their home to make some extra money.
The most egregious passage, though, is the one in which Taylor casually relates how her mother conspired with a local doctor to sterilize their maid, Angelita, without Angelita's knowledge or consent.
I read this book and enjoyed it a lot.
The reason that I picked this book is because it was one of the stories so favored by our men and women in WWII who were stationed overseas during conflict.
These little 6.5 & 4.5 pocket books could be carried in their pockets and they would take them out to read to bring a little relief from the shellings, bombings and waiting for battles.
I really encourage you to read the reason for these little books.
How far we've come (and thank heavens, too) that many of the terms used in this memoir of early 20th-century boardinghouse life made me once again blush with embarrassment.
Taylor's 1943 memoir, though, was such a homey and recognizable slice-of-life that it was a popular offering in a patriotic program that sent books to soldiers serving overseas in WWII.
And overlooking the dated terms, it is indeed a charming look back at an industrious family's life in old Tucson.
Read it for a look back into how life once was, and then come back to present-day happy that our global family is working to be a more inclusive one.
Rosemary Taylor presents growing up in a boarding house in Arizona in a nostalgic, quaint, and funny way.
This book evokes images of family life gone by, in a similar way to Life With Father.
The descriptions of Mother's cooking and ability to use every bit of food makes me envious.
The bit about the overbearing mother and her poet son who is obsessed with dying has a very satisfying ending.
This is certainly one of those books that is worth getting out of the attic.
This is a fun old book.
Written in the early 40's, the style is simple and energetic.
They are a loving couple all right, but still there is some salt and crust in between to make it interesting.And what's not told here, but this reader has gleaned, is this is one of the founding families of Tucson.
Today, there are many places in that city with this family's surname.Give it a quick read.
You'll learn something about another time in America when things were profoundly different than what we know today.
A humorous story of a slightly dysfunctional family, where the mother saves pennies (including by taking in boarders) and the father gambles on get rich schemes. The push and pull is marked by their children, and leads to more than one incident-- boarders who warn of divine punishment, who suffer from marriage woes, or have money to invest. Funny and touching, full of rich detail and love for the foibles of family life.
I read this book last year and picked it up again. Thoroughly enjoyable story, told well. There is nothing better than a first hand account of history and everyday social commentary from another time. Beats someone writing about how they think it was way back when based on research every time. I would think it would be a popular book out in Arizona since it covers an early period in Arizona history.
This was a hilarious book. The stories were just fun. I found myself laughing out loud. The mother was a very smart woman who found clever ways to make money to support her family. The boarders were also very fun and entertaining. This boarding house is a place that I really would have liked to stay at.
Another book from my aunt's library. I learned so much history from reading all those books from t he 40's, in a way a history book could never convey. Life in turn of the century and later Tuscon. Miss Taylor's mother ran a boarding house, but really, all the boarders became members of the family. Great read.
My mother told me, that her mother told her, that this book was about “our family” ... the woman in the book was the daughter of a woman who was a Virginia Claiborne.Story was a lot of fun, and more about Tucson, in the early days.
Loved it! Loved it! Loved it! It was so refreshing to read a book about such an interesting time in the southwest. I wish this were available on Kindle. I think it would be great for it to be available to a wider audience.
A wonderful, charming book that delighted me to the last page. This book was made into a movie. We happened to buy the DVD before I ever bought the book (but have yet to watch it). I look forward in anticipation to see how Hollywood transformed the written word to the "Silver Screen".
Certainly dated, but I enjoyed the book. Knowing it was the most requested book among soldiers during World War II, I wanted to know what they were reading before, during and after battles. Life was different then. The book reminds me of how things have changed.
