https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4477.Complications
A year or more ago, I mistakenly placed a review for Gawande's book Better under this title.
I have fixed the mix up, and I have now read Complications.Gawande is pure pleasure to read.
The headings for each section of the book--Fallibility, Mystery, and Uncertainty--are thematic in the text.
As one reviewer wrote, "Thank heaven someone wrote this book." Gawande is unapologetic and totally direct in his appraisal of medicine.
What I really appreciate is that in Better, which he wrote after Complications, he gives equal time to discussing ways in which medicine can improve.
However, given the audience of this book (everyone) he does well to treat people about how uncertain medicine really is and how it really comes down to the tricky nature of making decisions and how they should be made in the medical setting:"But the conundrum remains: if both doctors and patients are fallible, who should decide?
I am really really happy that millions of people (future patients) are reading books like this and Groopman's "How doctor's think" as it really does educate them to get real about what medical care is all about.
Gawande divides his stories into three sections: fallibility, mystery, and uncertainty.
But for a doctor to learn how to do a central line, he must have a first patient to try it on.
The mystery section details stories of conditions that cannot be explained by current medical science, like blushing, pain, and nausea.
In each of these cases, the doctors could not explain why the patient had the condition.
The autopsy is how doctors can determine what was actually wrong with the patient.
(Although many times the family is opposed to the autopsy and will not allow it.) Another recurring point is the decision-making power of the patient.
Gawande was able to keep my attention and present points that I could understand in spite of my limited medical knowledge.Admittedly, some of his information scared me.
I also felt discouraged over the problems he presented that really have no attainable answers.In spite of my difficulty with his unanswerable questions, I appreciated Gawande's straightforward honesty about the medical profession and its weakness.
It makes it easier for me to ask questions if I don't expect the doctor to have all the right answers (especially if that doctor is willing to admit such a possibility).
Which is why learning about medicine and healthcare is so important.
However, a lot of books about medicine and healthcare can be pretty dry, which is where Dr. Gawande comes to the rescue.
In this book, Gawande is just starting out his medical career.
And as a doctor, you not only need book smarts, but the ability to navigate unforeseen challenges with integrity and fortitude.
Although I enjoyed this book, I thought it was a bit dull at times.
I would recommend  “Complications”  to medical professionals or anybody who is interested in learning about the healthcare field.
نویسنده تجربه های شخصی خودش رو بیان کرده بود و تفکراتش رو درباره اینکه پیچیدگی ها چطور در پزشکی تنیده شدند در میان آنها قرار داده بوداز اون نوع کتاب هاست که باید نکته های کوچکش رو دریابی
Not quite a 4 star read, but close enough.
They boil down to medicine isn't perfect.Doctors are humans, so need to learn & will make mistakes, even with the best intentions.
Do I want a doctor to learn on me or mine?
Balance between what the doctor recommends & what the patient wants is tough.Medicine has come a LONG way in a short time, but they still don't know a lot.
As it becomes more complicated, it's tougher for doctors to stay on top of even their specialty.
I think this was his first book & it suffered a bit from that.
Atul Gawande writes for The New Yorker, and I always read his articles as soon as I spot the by-line. I read "Better" last year and think it is even, yes, better. But both books have rare qualities. Gawande is a physician who can step back from his ego and write with compassion and insight about the relationship between vulnerable sick people and those whose skill and judgment they are compelled to trust.
Read these sentences and tell me that this writer isn't an unbearable idiot:"If choice [of one's surgeon] cannot go to everyone, maybe it is better when it is not allowed at all.""Taking time to bond with patients is fine, but every X ray must be tracked down and every drug dose must be exactly right." "Hospital lawyers warn doctors that, although they must, of course, tell patients about injuries that occur, they are never to intimate that they were at fault, lest the 'confession' wind up in court as damning evidence in a black-and-white morality tale.""This was not guilt: guilt is what you feel when you have done something wrong.
I agree to middle-rating, (in Indonesia means, lumayanlah..
is a chapter when Atul writes about "the curve of learning".
He statistically showed about transision safety rate of "great artery transposition" surgery, between the convensional and the latest method.
Now, Using the latest method, a child who has born with "great artery transposition" can reach the age of 40.
the safety rate increase.
Like i said before, these days, a child with "great transposition artery" can celebrate his or her 40's birthday..It means, we can never resist a failure.
A medical student can never resist a failure..Too bad, people dont care about it.
Wow!
I loved this and I love Dr. Gawande.
The first section is about how it is necessary for medical residents to learn how to do procedures on people, but how it's just as necessary to sort of glide over that fact with patients.
This was the most exciting part of the book because he went over his own early surgeries and the complications that arose.
The rest of the book is about how, even though medicine is a 'scientific' field, it's ultimately human and fallible.
For a while, I'd think, "Oh, I guess you should never have surgery unless it's absolutely necessary," but then a while later, I'd think, "Oh shit!
this was a very interesting book. i liked his writing style, too. it was far more engaging than the stupid tree book. isn't this author bio a bit sickening, though? "atul gawande, a 2006 macarthur fellow, is a general surgeon at the brigham and women's hospital in boston, a staff writer for the new yorker, an assistant professor at harvard medical school, and a frequent contributor to the new england journal of medicine. gawande lives with his wife and three children in newton, massachusetts." the fact that his kids are named hunter, walker and hattie does lose him points, though.
Great. Reminds me of why I wanted to do medicine.
For one, Gawande has a bad case of the "It was a crisp, sunny day in Autumn when..."s - such rushed, bland scene-setting for the OR anecdotes makes you wish he'd employ his own experiences more as plain old illustrative examples for his thesis rather than attempts to build the empathy and tension of a medical drama.
Maybe for some readers, this enhances the sense that they're reading something important and self-improving, but personally it just made me feel coddled.
"Please do not reward my ego with these rich, chocolatey brownie points for making the effort." Anyway, glad to have read this nonetheless!
Fascinating. I only wish Gawande brought a biblical worldview into the topic. It was the missing dimension in many stories—What role does human depravity play here? How could prayer make a difference there? What if we applied basic principles of wisdom in this case? What if the gospel were presented in that one? Man is so complex—body, mind, and spirit so inextricably intertwined—that we're never going to understand the complexities of any one of them without bringing our knowledge of the others to bear. Someday we'll get there.
Disturbing. Fascinating. Illuminating.
He begins by describing in compulsively readable detail some occasions during which it has failed its patients.
An overarching theme in the book is an idea of what makes a good surgeon; Gawande points out that it's not about innate talent.
(I also read Blink, recently, by Malcolm Gladwell, and he points out that the number of medical malpractice lawsuits a doctor will have filed against him or her can be predicted based on the tone of voice they take with patients during their first appointments- it has almost nothing to do with malpractice and everything to do with the way the doctor made the patient feel.
If you have an infallible faith in doctors and medicine, read this book.
If you think doctors are just regular Joes who don't know much more than the rest of us, read this book.
If you're like me and you just like to read about medical stuff, read this book!Gawande fills 268 pages with just the right balance of anecdote, personal opinion, and references to documented research.
He seems to be not only a well-qualified writer, but also a brilliant doctor.
I may be a bit giddy with admiration at the moment, but I'm not gonna lie: Atul Gawande is my new hero.
Atul has a great way of laying out his ideas and experience through story-telling.
He takes the reader into journeys around a particular topic very smoothly and in an enjoyable way.He's got a nice approach to writing.
This often has to do with a patient he had seen or had been exposed to his/her situation; a very humanizing approach that catches the reader's attention and feelings.He then moves on to put this problem in perspective technical, historical, ...
Then goes back to the patient, the human factor, and finishes off the story, often, with satisfying closure.This is a great book of his.
This National Book Award finalist REALLY makes you think!
It opens your eyes to the imperfections in our system of medical care.
Gawande is a surgical resident (when he wrote it), a thinker and a poet.
He uses case histories to explore the thinking, the philosophy, of medicine.
He speaks of mistakes and intuition, luck and skill, good outcomes despite bad treatement, and devastating outcomes despite excellent care.
This should be required reading for all medical students and regularly re-read by all MDs.After I'd read it I couldn't stop talking about it, and convinced one of my F2F book clubs to read it in July 2005.
I love vacations.
Must-read! Amazing! A self-critical, self-aware, proud yet humble insights of a doctor regarding medicine. It's humbling for a non-medical person to understand what doctors go through in their life-saving career.
The bottom line and conclusion he comes to is that at the end of the day, there's just as many questions as there are answers in modern medicine.
I found the discussion of the never ending battle of a doctor to go with gut instinct or second guess himself when lives are on the line.
Despite being a doctor, the patients were obviously at the center of each story and ultimately their feelings and decisions shaped the outcome.
So when I read this book, I kept thinking of that office visit, which was rather unlike other visits I have had with other doctors, who have always seemed willing to listen and be open.
So often doctors are looked upon as omniscient beings with the whole of medical science at their fingertips, but Gawande blasts away this notion and effectively conveys that they are just as human as the rest of us.A few things bothered me about the book: at times Gawande seems almost too thoughtful, making him seem hesitant and ineffectual; many of his stories are from him just starting out, which may have contributed to this impression.
This book only got three stars from me mostly because even though I enjoyed it as I was reading, I didn't love it as much as I thought I was going to.
Something about the way that he wrote about these issues was what really got me thinking about them.
Overall, I definitely enjoyed this book, which is saying something considering that I'm not a big non-fiction fan.
I would recommend this to those with any interesting in the medical field or even just those looking for an interesting non-fiction read.
Many of the goodreads reviews of this book mention how interesting the stories that Gawande shared were.
I agree that they were interesting stories, but I also agree with reviewers that have complained about the formatting.
The interesting stories and the poor formatting make it difficult for me to rate this book.
Different formatting would have made the book more of a page turner, and it would probably have made me actually want to continue to read it.
Since the stories were so interesting, but I really did not like the formatting, I can only say this book was mediocre.
He brings up difficult questions, like the quandary of giving a patient full disclosure ("Hi, I'm Dr. Gawande, and this is the first time I've ever performed this complicated surgery.
The other doctor in the room has done it plenty of times and will be here to take over if I start botching things too badly!") or accepting that new doctors will never learn how to perform complicated surgeries if someone isn't their first time.
It's a worthwhile read, and gives insight on what it's like to be on the other side of the doctor's table, but isn't focused or thesis-driven enough to leave the reader with any new revelations or convictions.
Any factors that affect success/failures of people in other professions, affect them also." And there are a myriad other things here, like how updated the doctor is, what stage of his career he is, if she's dealing with depression, etc.I was a big fan of Scrubs, the TV show.
This seems to have formed the basis for his most recent book - Being Mortal.I many ways, it is good there are "writer-doctors" like Gawande and Siddhartha Mukherjee.
Books like this which bring out the inner workings in a way people can understand and relate to are needed a lot more.
He discusses mistakes that doctors make in medicine, a collection of hard-to-solve cases, and medical uncertainty.
This is among the first medical-related books that I have ever read, which helped to add to the intrigue and absolute fascination.
he's a surgeon) the problems that a doctor faces when having to make a decision for his patient.
The book as a whole had a powerful delivery and was very well written.
I plan to read more by Dr. Gawande and will probably continually cite them as a confirmation that I want to be a doctor (and maybe even a surgeon - who knows).
I've read several books by doctors about the medical profession and always find them intriguing.
My favorites are those by Richard Selzer (Confessions of a Knife, Letters to a Young Doctor, etc.), who, like this author, is a surgeon.Where Selzer is more literary, this author is more informative and practical about the realities of medicine, such as the necessity of practicing on patients, the role that class plays in quality of treatment received, and the shot-in-the-dark nature of making diagnoses.
I was so fascinated with this book that I read it straight through.
It's easy to read, but not facile, and the author doesn't shy away from making it personal.
