https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111113.Interaction_of_Color
Excellent color theory reference. Highly recommended for anyone in graphic, applied, and fine arts. Much might seem intuitive to a sensitive and attuned individual, but there are exercises that clarify concepts that seem impossible and/or counterintuitive. Engaging and examples are provided to illustrate the concepts. "A strong challenge to a class is to work with 3 or 4 given colors selected by a teacher or student. This and a continued use of disliked colors will teach that preference and dislike--as in life so with color --usually result from prejudices, from lack of experience and insight."
One of the paintings in the series Abstract, by Clare Rojas.
Josef Albers rolls away the color wheel and brings in relational color theory. An example of this is shown on the cover, where one brown looks totally different when placed next to warm or cool tones.From my years of experience as a picture framer before I read this book I found myself in total agreement with Albers. If the color wheel is memorizing multiplication tables Interaction of Color is doing experimental equations. The color world of Josef Albers is hands on, real, as art is.
Of course, I was introduced to the Interaction of Color in art school in the latter 1970s. This is one of the most important works on color theory. I would go so far as to call it mind-altering as it will have some bearing on any work you do after reading it. If you are a young artist, please consider this necessary reading. If you are older, it will be stimulating to your work. I know I should reread it.
The book definitely inspires readers to think more deeply about color, and there are ideas that I found valuable.
There isn't much concrete information that you feel like you're learning and could use.
A lot of it is composed of specific examples, but not a helpful base of ideas that one can use to jump into thought and practice with.
Also, it's very text heavy, which is weird for a book about color.
There are examples in the back with accompanying paragraphs, which I honestly found more helpful than the main text, which can feel cluttered and boring.
I may not be smart enough to get all this, but I really liked the parts about how certain colors together can make us see things differently--even if the change is slight.
色彩互動學 -Interaction of Colors這本書分為兩大部分，前半部描述如何透過色彩互動與實驗來玩弄客觀條件下的色彩，使其主觀感受與客觀條件產生差異，除了提到一些色彩理論與法則，如彩度、明度、灰階，在某些條件固定下，能操作的變形有哪些，作者還擅長用其他藝術來比喻觀看色彩：『在樂曲中，如果只聽到單一樂音，我們就聽不到音樂。聽到音樂的先決條件是，聽出介於樂音與樂音之間的東西，它們的位置與留白。』『寫作時，懂得拼字不代表能理解一首詩。』『同樣的，能一一辨識畫中的色彩也不等同於敏銳的觀看能力，也不代表能理解色彩在畫中的作用。』我們關注的是看見，色彩和色彩之間發生了什麼事，正如康丁斯坦(Kandingsky)所謂閱讀藝術的方式，重點不是讀到甚麼，而是如何讀。書中談到的互動比較偏向創造，實驗，玩的意味，透過色彩彼此之間的影響，被影響，消褪，凸顯，融入，溢出，展示不同效果，而後半部則是對於前半部各種實驗命題的實作展示。像是使用色紙、不透明紙的交疊，面積大小控制，層次，色彩來操作這些命題實驗，再透過實驗結果來得出關於色彩理論的重要發現與結論。如減色：如何讓兩種不同的顏色看起來只剩下一種，或者如何讓四種顏色看起來像是三種，得出混色的結果會受到母色含量的比例影響與其他結論。抑或其實同一個顏色在不同背景下，觀看者會因為其母色明度的差異，讓同一顏色被看成兩種不同顏色。其實我覺得講述色彩互動，很難透過平面文字書籍產生共鳴，因為將文字轉換為圖像，需經過認知消耗，且違背直覺，正所謂”A picture is worth a thousand words.” 。看前半段有點辛苦，但到了後半段就一切豁然開朗。因為後面就是搭配優異的實驗作品。這本書很有趣，有別於以往色彩學教科書，而且充滿創造性的命題，我覺得對設計人士還滿有幫助的，至少知道為了要讓使用者有相同的主觀感受，不同深淺背景下，前景使用的顏色，就不應該再要求一定要客觀條件相同，反而是應該針對母色而進行微調，讓人感覺即使是不同背景，但主體主觀看起來是相同的。哈！不過我看完，第一個想法竟然不是設計師可以用，而是可以讓小朋友玩色紙，來進行這一連串實驗。總之，設計師值得一看，就算不看理論，光學習作者是怎麼看待色彩的這些觀點，也就值得拉。
Really cool exploration of color theory from 1963. Still relevant and still engaging. The prose is written in a concise, almost poetic way, and very easy to read. The plates look great, but my only complaint is that in the 50th anniversary edition they should have reorganized the book so you didn't have to keep flipping to the back to see the color plates.
not so much a lecture as it is poetry. My silly graphic arts prof. for my graduate certificates couldn't think of a book to read for the class. I guess instead of being polite, I should have mentioned this.
50+ years after its release, this still WOWS. Every color exercise brings a new concept forward. There's an interactive app, too. Combines moving color plates, text and audio for a full surround-sound experience. This book is a gem!
I'll be honest...I think a lot of this went over my head.
Even though I read slowly and thoughtfully I often felt there was nuance in the definition of the words (because I'm not an artist and not fluent in German) that went beyond what was being written.
This is an older book (at least my edition) so the plates are in the back.
You have to keep a separate marker for your chapter number and the chapter plates.
Lots of interesting thoughts about the flexibility of color.
Color is not a constant.
This book is full of color experiments which show how color is influenced by its neighbors.
Najhutnejšia a pre mňa i najpodnetnejšia kniha o téme, ktorú ťažko zachytiť slovami, keďže sa venuje tomu najrelatívnejšieho zrakového vnemu- farbe. Žiadne vágne teórie, "iba" cvičenia v pozorovaní jednotlivých farebných situácií. Nabáda k citlivejšiemu vnímaniu a následnej analýze a je skvelým pomocníkom pre učiteľov i študentov výtvarných umení
Josef Albers is a brilliant teacher, he provides enough instruction for a student reading the book to explore, but not too much as to prevent them from thinking flexibly about color.
He uses many analogies to not only help the reader understand color but also understand how one can think about color.On a last note, I would look into getting the iPad app for the book.
As much as I enjoyed reading the book and attempted to create and go through the exercises it's probably better done in the app.
This book would be a great way of introducing students to philosophical questions about color.
These experiments demonstrate spectacularly and undeniably the idea that the way things look is "active" and "relative"--that the color things appear to have depends enormously on their surroundings.
Albers doesn't raise the inevitable question whether there is any such thing as the "real" color of an object, but it is implicit throughout this study, and the answer to it has to be J.L. Austin's answer, that the "real" color of a thing is itself relative to a variety of different factors.
Un libro/workshop sul colore, che consiglio a chiunque di usare in modo pratico.Non si tratta infatti di un manuale con teoremi, assiomi e ferree teorie da leggere annoiandosi.L’autore - alla luce di laboratori/lezioni con studenti - analizza effetti ottici causati dall'accostamento dei colori.
Invoglia il lettore a testare personalmente le teorie riportate, sia per una migliore comprensione della lezione sia per ‘’allenare l’occhio’’ e scoprire ulteriori e inaspettati effetti.
Le tavole sono utilissime, perché se non hai proprio voglia di testare personalmente hai degli esempi chiarissimi, cioé i piú eclatanti che l’autore sia riuscito a riscontrare.
Tutt’ora credo che qualche frase non mi sia particolarmente chiara.
Interaction of Color stands out as the one book and class that changed and expanded the way I see and use color.
It gave me an appreciation abstract art, which had never resonated for me prior to my participatory immersion in the challenges Albers creates.
It also gave me a much deeper understanding of the ways people experience color.
This book is a game changer for any artist who physically does all the exercises and has the benefit of seeing and hearing other students' reactions.
NOTE: I was 18 when I took this class.
Many years later, I am still affected by what I learned.
This is not a casual read. It is a textbook that discusses the way we see color and how colors interact with each other when we look at them. It does provide some interesting and useful information for the artist and about how the colors you choose can have a big effect on the overall "feel" of a painting.
Although Albers is the genius of color his writing is beige. Even informative/expository writings can be entertaining.
great book on color theory
He may fancy Interaction of Color a work of poetry, but I’d really rather read text with a predictable line-length.Form and format aside, the content is quite good.
If you’re a designer, Interaction of Color is a book worth adding to your collection.Regrettably, nowhere in the 50th anniversary is there a mention of how to apply these techniques to screen design for digital designers like myself.I would love to see an updated edition—or perhaps a new book entirely from one of Albers’s students—which corrects the issues listed above, goes beyond staged classroom examples to point out meaningful uses of color in the real world, delves into the differences between print and screen, and overall makes the book more practical and approachable without losing Albers’s pioneering spirit.
I managed to do all the studies in this book and I have learnt a lot in the process.
As a painter I found a lot of the studies centered on theories I use in my work intuitively but I would not have been able to put into words until now.
It has given me a better understanding of colour and how it is used.I highly recommend artists/colourists to read and try doing at least some of the studies which will definitely benefit them in their work.
I would not say this is the be all and end all of colour especially in painting since the studies do not allow for chance.
Another a must-read book for anyone who wants to understand color interactions and effects.
Different with The Art of Colors by Itten which filled with a lot of theories, this book suggests that practice should precedes the understanding of colors, not through theory.
The only limitation to really do the practices of this book, is where the hell can i find very broad range of colored papers in Jakarta?
But I suggest that anyone reading Johannes Itten first (which is more fundamental), and then this book later.
Because then you can compare the different views toward colors on these two books.
5 stars for the 'Interaction of Color' but only 3 for this 1970s edition. I appreciate that colour plates add to production costs but producing a black and white edition of an exemplified book on colour theory without the colour examples, then sticking a whole 8 token colour plates at the end, is ridiculous. Whatever the happy medium between a $200 silk screened edition, and an accessible study aid should have been, it wasn't this.
After seeing Albers work again (at the NC Art Museum) I found my copy of Interaction of Color from college and was reminded again how profoundly his color exercises affected my color perceptions then and now. I'm ready to do another set of his color studies- 40 years later!
Great book! I will do the exercises soon! Probably a summer project.
Read for SGB 2017. I love this book. There's something comforting about it. Challenging, clinical, but comforting.
Es una buena excusa para pensar sobre el color, cómo se relacionan entre sí, que general. También es una lectura romántica del mundo de los colores, con lindas frases para guardar.
All artists must read.
deep book.
The best color theory book of all time.
