https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41821.The_Gods_Themselves
In response to critics who complained about these omissions, he wrote a book about alien sex.
(Mostly.) The other two thirds of the book tell one of the "purest" and "hardest" science fiction stories I've ever read.By pure, I mean that there's a single, science-related "what-if," and that the story hinges upon that.
Not that there's anything at all wrong with a good space opera.) The motivator for The Gods Themselves is the question, "what if there were a parallel universe in which the laws of physics were a little different?"By hard, I mean that the science is accurate.
It received both the Nebula and Hugo awards for best novel (1972 and 1973 respectively).
Foundation, especially, is one of my favourite SF novels.
I am going to go against what appears to be the norm by not giving this novel four or five stars.
It’s a novel I respected rather than enjoyed.I can certainly recognise The Gods Themselves as a good Science Fiction novel.
The universe is going to explode!
In the end it would have been more satisfying if the universe did explode, just to shut up all these people.Now before I get crucified.
I liked the novel (hence the three stars), I just didn’t like it quite enough.
Would humanity easily give up such a gift?It's interesting to read this book, published in 1972, in light of today's problems with humanity's stewardship of the world.
I'm sure, actually, that Mr. Asimov thought his day was bad.This book is told in three separate parts, each of which was published independently in Galaxy Magazine and Worlds of If. They focus on three quite different groups of people and their interaction with the Electron Pump.The first focuses on the physicists who discover and deal with the Electron Pump.
After listening to a Star Wars book, it's interesting to note how little they care about the different gravities of worlds.
Okay, it's sexy and alien, but is it really convincing?
Or, it's alien and convincing, but does it come across as sexy?Anyway, this book is one of the stronger contenders, as Asimov treats us to a graphic, no-holds-barred description of how a three-gendered species get it on.
I found it convincing, and many people agree that it's sexy.
It's been said more than once that you just need to make a few substitutions of words, and it all becomes disappointingly mundane.
What exactly are these substitutions?I'm curious to know what other candidates there might be.
Isaac Asimov is a writer of ideas: and this is one of his best.The concept is mind-boggling.
Also, the shortsightedness of governments regarding possible disasters, when there are goodies available for the taking by ignoring the dangers seem strangely prophetic in the face of the Climate Change controversy we are going through now.
The Schiller quote, which gives the novel its title, is strangely apt.Against stupidity, the gods themselves contend in vain.I am deducting a star for the structure of the novel, which is a mess.
This is one of the best pieces of pure science fiction every written.
But only a handful of other stories such as Forward's Dragon's Egg come to mind as being such excellent science fiction.I am a physicist, mind you.
This is one of the earliest, and best, multiple universe theory books out there, and actually implicitly postulates physics that explains e.g. the big bang by means of a directed coupling across those Universes.
The inhabitants of the second universe who make up the middle third of the book are almost as spectacular as the underlying physical theory -- very, very different and yet not entirely implausible.
The Gods Themselves, Isaac Asimovعنوانها: خدایان هم؛ ایزدان هم؛ نویسنده: ایزاک آسیموف؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه آگوست سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: خدایان هم؛ ایزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: هوشنگ غیاثی نژاد؛ تهران، پاسارگاد، 1373؛ در 383 ص؛ شاهکارهای ادبیات علمی تخیلی؛ عنوان: ایزدان هم؛ ایزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: حسین شهرابی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1393؛ در 344 ص؛ شاهکارهای ادبیات علمی تخیلی؛ 9786001821141؛ ماجرای بیگانه های جهانی موازی، که قوانین فیزیکی آنها با دنیای ما متفاوت است، آنها قصد دارند با رد و بدل کردن ما
The Gods Themselves, Isaac Asimovعنوانها: خدایان هم؛ ایزدان هم؛ نویسنده: ایزاک آسیموف؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و هفتم ماه آگوست سال 2002 میلادیعنوان: خدایان هم؛ ایزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: هوشنگ غیاثی نژاد؛ تهران، پاسارگاد، 1373؛ در 383 ص؛ شاهکارهای ادبیات علمی تخیلی؛ عنوان: ایزدان هم؛ ایزاک آسیموف؛ مترجم: حسین شهرابی؛ تهران، تندیس، 1393؛ در 344 ص؛ شاهکارهای ادبیات علمی تخیلی؛ 9786001821141؛ ماجرای بیگانه‌ های جهانی موازی، که قوانین فیزیکی آنها با دنیای ما متفاوت است، آنها قصد دارند با رد و بدل کردن ماده با زمین، از تفاوت‌های قوانین فیزیکی سود ببرند.
It tells about how Lamont (a self-obsessed scientist) is set to prove that Hallam's (an ego-maniacal scientist) new energy source and the answer to all mankind's energy problems (an electron pump that relies on the transfer of radioactive matter from a parallel universe) is actually going to destroy the earth.
Of course we could not go all the way to the Para-universe just to learn how these aliens like to get freaky, so there's also a lot said about what the aliens think of us and about their no-so-secret agenda for our world.The next and last section is where the action takes place.
The journalist gets onto the trail of secret knowledge that aliens in the alternate universe are the true inventors of the interuniverse pump and that initial warnings of dangers to our universe by a now discredited scientist are well-founded.
Jealousy, pride, ambition, loyalty, shame, and fear are all key human emotions that come into play with the otherwise plausibly plot concerning the threat from insights that come when the Emotional member of the triad transgresses her role by learning more about the physics of the Electron Pump (Positron Pump in their universe).In the third section, decades later, the discredited scientist who prophesied doom arrives as an immigrant to a long-established colony on the Moon.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Dua, Odeen, and Tritt: "The Gods Themselves" by Isaac Asimov"Mit der Dummheit kämpfen Götter selbst vergebens."Friedrich SchillerI admired it much more than I actually enjoyed it. Asimov's ideas are brilliant but his characters are somewhat bloodless and cardboard. Even when he tries to work against this it comes out all embarrassing. The third section on the moon is a pale imitation to Heinlein's 'Moon is a Harsh Mistress'. Given the timing on the publication that can't have been an accident.
Asimov foresees the climate change debate29 May 2012 The title of this book is a part of a longer title, which is used to split up the three sections of the book: Against Stupidity the Gods Themselves Contend in Vain'. I believe that that is actually an Ancient Greek saying, which is not surprising at all. Nope, as it turns out I am incorrect (thankyou Internet), it was in fact a saying of a German Poet named Friedrich von Schiller, but it is not the saying or the meaning of the saying that I re
Nope, as it turns out I am incorrect (thankyou Internet), it was in fact a saying of a German Poet named Friedrich von Schiller, but it is not the saying or the meaning of the saying that I really want to write about here, though I must admit that it is something that I can relate to because, in a way, it is true: even the gods themselves cannot deal with stupid people.
It is interesting because the middle section of the book, which deals with the aliens, has us follow one particular trinity to the point where they metamoph into the new form.
Earth has discovered an infinite source of energy from a device known as an electron pump and it appears to be cheap, clean, and unlimited.
به کسانی که با حد و مرز محدود نشدنی تخیل و مباحث فیزیکی مشکل دارند توصیه نمی شودموجوداتی تصور کنید که جسم متراکم ندارند و شناورند.
سه جنسیت متفاوت دارند و به جای جفت گیری "سه گانه گیری " می کنند و ستاره خورشید مانندی منبع تغذیه آن هاستآینده ای از زمین را تصور کنید که بشر به منابع بی نهایت، پاک و عملا بدون هزینه انرژی دست پیدا کرده است.
Plantea cuestiones muy interesantes para reflexionar.La segunda parte del relato, que está ambientada en el lado alienígena, es sencillamente genial y sorprendente.
La tercera y última parte nos traslada a la luna y seguimos con el problema del intercambio de energías, pero Asimov nos describe la vida en nuestro querido satélite con unas ideas también muy interesantes.En resumen, si te gusta la Sci fi no te la puedes perder por nada del mundo, es imaginativa y original 100%.
Solo por ellos vale la pena el libro :D¿¿¿No escribió Asimov ningún otro libro o relato basado en los seres blandos???

As for the actual story idea, I enjoyed the extrapolation of a modified natural law and the SF conversation Asimov was having with Silverberg, but it turns out that a tiny handful of ideas isn't enough to carry the novel.
I'm a firm believer in truly excellent characters and story.
As this novel is, it's more of a thinly-veiled science instructional tidied up with a few SF tropes and a single good Science Idea mixed with a single good cultural/mental/personal Idea.
Asimov does, too.
Foundation is much better and I had a grand lot of fun with the Robot books.
To tell you the truth, Asimov seems more interested in part 3 in simply detailing what kind of society such a populace might produce, and all the ways it would be so much better than contemporary Earth society; it seems like only an afterthought near the end that one of these people actually comes up with a way to avert the looming crisis being talked about throughout the manuscript, by tapping into yet another para-universe that is in its pre-Big-Bang phase, thus offsetting the massive amounts of nuclear energy that the first para-universe has been pumping into our own.(Spoilers finished!)The argument for it being a classic:Of all the writers in the so-called "Golden Age" of science-fiction, fans say, none were quite as important as Isaac Asimov; he brought to the genre all the mainstream respect of an Arthur C Clarke, the audacity of a Robert Heinlein, the prolific nature of a Ray Bradbury, and an enthusiasm usually only seen in fanboys.

Asimov certainly plots his tales well. Most of his books I've read, this included, consist of a couple interrelated novellas as opposed to a single story - yet Asimov weaves the overall story together masterfully.The first section is a wonderful portrayal of how academia really works, the second section will have your chin on the floor the entire time, and the third section ties in all the details with (virtually) a whole new cast.The second section is so imaginative it would be simply unfilmable. You can't make a movie out of this one.
"Creo que no me afligiría el suicido colectivo de la humanidad por pura malevolencia de corazón, o por mera inconsciencia.
De qué sirve ser hombre si así es como tienen que morir."Novela ganadora de los premios Hugo, Nebula y Locus en la década del 70.
En 1982, Asimov declaró en una carta que "Los propios dioses" era su novela de ciencia ficción favorita.Es un gran libro, sin duda, aunque, en mi escala personal de Asimov, he disfrutado más de otras novelas como El fin de la eternidad y muchas de las novelas en las sagas de Robot y Fundación.
4,5Al principio algo desconcertante. Conforme avanzas páginas 100% atrapante.Una ciencia ficción distinta, sorprendente, original, verosímil en las leyes físicas de su mundo.Racional, emotiva, sexual y con lugar para reflexiones profundas sobre la evolución, la existencia, las relaciones y el egoísmo de la supervivencia.Corta pero suficiente y con un buen final que deja todo atado. Leída del tirón. Me ha encantado.
The first part of the novel takes place on Earth in 22th century, where our protagonist Peter is trying to prove how and why using the revolutionary clean energy source i.e. Electron pump might destroy the world.
To create a whole society of aliens that feels real and unique is always a challange, but to create it and place a memorable set of characters who also happen to be the protagnists in an epic story.
However, Dua is an independent spirit, the sort that most question everything and will hence set things into parallel universe into movement.
This book explores the concept of multiple universes via the drama of two sets of characters, one set in our universe, one in another where the rules of physics are different.Asimov uses the different laws of physics to set up a cool conceit that first promises unlimited energy for all, then threatens to destroy all existence.
He worked hard to create a truly alien alien race, but uses conversational English dialogue to show us how much this race is like ourselves in the need for love, safety and procreation.It is, however, a bit long-winded.
The explorations of the alien culture went more than a bit long for my tastes.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Along with "The End of Eternity" Asimov's best non "Robot" or "Foundation" novel. Winner: Hugo Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1973)Winner: Nebula Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1973)Winner: Locus Award Best Science Fiction Novel (1973)Voted to 1998 Locus List of "All Time Best" Science Fiction Novels (Pre 1990)
A good foreword by Asimov.
It's can be fun to find out the inspiration for a story & since this one involved Silverberg, another giant in the SF genre, that was even better.The basic premise is good, too.
Actually, it might be great, especially the way he leverages it to show the realities & politics behind science & society.
It's easy to see where a catch 22 can & would develop.
Unfortunately, the narrative & characters are so flat that I kept zoning out.
I didn't like any of the characters & the story advanced ponderously.
¿Cinco estrellas? Pues sí. Porque es un grande y porque siempre que leo algo suyo acaba por sorprenderme. Un libro compuesto de tres relatos que hablan sobre los descubrimientos científicos y donde realiza una crítica al ego de sus responsables. La descripción del universo paralelo es para enmarcar.
Yes, there are elements in this novel that others have done but none of them really as well as Asimov.
There are others here who have explained the premise of this novel far better than I could and without giving away little nuggets of information that could, quite possibly ruin the narrative.
What is lacking in the novel are characters of much depth and interest.
Asimov has shown he can write memorable and entertaining characters who have some depth (Bailey and R.
However, here Asimov seems to fall too much in love with the science of what he is trying to explain rather than having interesting characters in the mix.
Asimov nos describe a los alienígenas más sensuales que podremos encontrar en la literatura de ciencia ficción.
La vida de los alienígenas es como una díada freudiana: una parte sensual e infantil y otra parte más seria y adulta.
sin spoilers.La parte sensual de la díada es como el personaje de Lolita, como un niño feliz que explora un cubo de arena de playa lleno de conchas de colores, como el personaje Amelie Poulain en medio de un mercado callejero.
La parte seria no hace falta que la describa.
Who knew that a novel written in 1972 could touch on global warming, woman empowerment, lax views on different sexual orientations, and foreign policy...all with very pristine and at times technically beautiful scientific writing.Some of my favorite quotes from this year come from this book:"Now then, young man, don't ask me to stop the Pumping. The economy and comfort of the entire planet depend on it. Tell me, instead, how to keep the Pumping from exploding the Sun.""There are no happy endings in history, only crisis points that pass"This book should be turned into a play.
I heard good things about The Gods Themselves.
The premise is a delight for the hard science fiction fan: In the twenty-second century Earth obtains limitless, free energy from a source science little understands: an exchange between Earth and a parallel universe, using a process devised by the aliens.Of course there's a catch.
There's always a catch.It's a short and interesting read with believable aliens, who have a fascinating way of structuring their families.
It didn't wow me, but I'm glad I read it.I recommend this book to all science fiction fans who either want to read more Asimov, or more classic SF.
Ovo je knjiga koja se ne može lako pročitati više puta jer sadrži jak "twist" na kraju koji ćete upamtiti po njegovoj snazi no obvezno je morate pročitati barem jednom (ja sam uspio dva puta jer je dosta vremena prošlo)Ako jedan od najvećih majstora SF-a ovo sam smatra svojim najdražim djelom onda vas to mora privući.Ne samo da ga sam smatra, nego ga mnogi kritičari i čitatelji smatraju jednim od najboljih djela žanra uopće.Obvezno štivo!
