https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/463376.The_Claw_of_the_Conciliator
I have the same feeling about The Claw of the Conciliator as I had about the first part of the Book of the New Sun. This series is meant to be read for the second time.And to be able to do that, I have to get through the tedious journey to the end...
But if you, like me, enjoy that dreamy I’m-not-sure-where-I-am-or-how-I-got-here-or-where-I’m-going-but-everything-sure-feels-fine literary experience, then read on, because Severian’s head is a strange and fascinating place to be.The Book of the New Sun is one of those works that some people think is ingenious and others suspect is just drivel.
That’s how it feels to read The Book of the New Sun. How strange and refreshing!At the end of The Claw of the Conciliator, Severian says (just as he did at the end of The Shadow of the Torturer) that he doesn’t blame us if we don’t want to continue walking with him (“it is no easy road”).
Every analysis I've read of this book mentions that even the narrator is unreliable.This can be an effective technique, but in combination with a world of infinite, unpredictable intrigue, Wolfe's story begins to evoke something between a soap opera and a convoluted mystery novel, relying on impossible and contradictory scenarios to mislead the audience.
His followers have said that he isn't 'concerned with being conspicuously witty', but I'd suggest he's merely incapable of being vibrant or intriguing.There were interesting ideas and moments in the book, and I did appreciate what originality Wolfe did have, but I found it strange that such a different mind would produce such hidebound prose, tired descriptions, convenient plots, and unappealing characters.
I like a hero who, however flawed, I can identify with and root for, and the chilly precision of Severian’s voice—frosty even in his frankest revelations—prevents me from fully committing myself either to his story or his fate.
And, not being fully committed, I have come to view Severian’s journeying—however unfairly—as picaresque meanderings, not a quest.
Here we follow our hero (so to speak) through many, varied and esoteric adventures and...finally, at long last, as the book ends (view spoiler)[ we finally get to the city we set out for in the first book.
That comes more to the forefront here.
We waded through the tragedy, the revelations and the machinations and come to another...stopping point.
The book ends with same admonition as the first.
This time I'm considering taking him up on his advice.
If I read the third I think I'll give it some time first.
In the book it is a prostitute that looks exactly like someone famous.algedonic - pertaining to pain, especially in association with pleasure.haematidrosis - sweating blood.megathere - a large extinct ground sloth.algophilist - someone who enjoys pain, like a sadomasochist.piquenaires - a soldier whose main weapon is a type of spear.merychip - a type of horse.odalisque - a female slave or concubine in a harem.oread - a type of nymph that lives in mountains, valleys, or ravines.Septentrion - a word to describe northern regions or the north.epopt - one who has been instructed in the mysteries of a secret system.
There is so much hidden beneath the surface of these cities that you have to read very carefully and try to understand what exactly Severian just told you.At the end of the book Wolfe gives us a big clue regarding the place where our story is taking place.
This world is fascinating due to the fact that it has a technological level which has surpassed us but the people residing in it have completely forgotten this technology, and they describe the technology to us in terms of the magic they see and it is left to the reader to uncover what exactly they are trying to tell.2.Finding some tidbit makes you happy.I think I was able to uncover two to three things which Severian describes to us as completely irrational and I really felt a sense of achievement on being to see clearly.
I really liked the first half of this, but although I still thought the story was cool, I got kind of bored. Still, it was a good story and I'm curious to see where it's going next.
The Book of The New Sun is one of Wolfe's more contraversial post-modernist experimentations in narrative structure, in which it is hard to judge each volume on its own; -to be fair, I feel one should read the cycle as a whole and judge it as a whole....and as to the accusations of misogynism, I don't really see much misogynism in Severian's sexual escapades as much as in his continual judgement of women as being "weak" and his continuous harping on this theme, which does come across as pretty much a machismo attitude, and which I think might be Wolfe's own attitude rather than just that of Severian's - I'd have to re-read other works by the author to be sure of this, though.
Well, this volume starts out by abandoning all the characters introduced to spend time with the last character introduced at the very end of the first volume.
Again the environment seems as much a character as the protangonist, the stalwart Severian.
Half the time while I'm reading I feel I'm way over my head wading through the middle of some allegory of prophetic literature and every sci-fi/fantasy literary allusion that can be tossed in to suit.
The other half I'm bored by the verbose intellectual tone.
Actually my blundering through the book parallels Severian's role in the book...
And there are many powerful moments, as when Severian hears an apocalyptic step in a deep mine, raises his "iron phallus" over Agia, enters Vodalus' forest headquarters atop an elephantine baluchither, looks in a man-sized mirror-paged book in the House Absolute, tosses a coin into the Vatic Fountain there, talks with Dorcas about the Conciliator, and sees and is seen by the mythic Apu-Punchau.
At one point Severian senses Thecla's mind inside his: "We were one, naked and happy and clean, and we knew that she was no more and that I still lived, and we struggled against neither of those things, but with woven hair read from a single book and talked and sang of other matters."
4.5 stars. The second volume in The Book of the New Sun Tetralogy continuing the story began in The Shadow of the Torturer. This is one of the most imaginative science fiction/fantasy epics ever written. Highly Recommended!Winner: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1983)Winner: Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel (1983)Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1983)Nominee: Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1983)Nominee: World Fantasy Award for Best Novel (1983)
This is the second volume in Wolfe's tetralogy "Book of the New Sun".
These books are his memoirs, written from the seat of power.The setting is our world of perhaps thousands of years hence.
Space travel had once been common, as had contact with extraterrestrial races.
Now there is no more space travel, and we're stranded on "Urth", along with the remnants of alien races we've brought here, which have in some cases been genetically spliced with humans.
Severian is an unreliable narrator, and often it seems there is more mystery in the tale than revelation.
I ended up putting the book down, going to sleep, and then backtracking a few pages to read the play from the beginning this morning.
I was able to follow it better after some sleep, but I still didn’t particularly enjoy it.One other thing that got on my nerves was Severian, the narrator, continually reminding the reader that he doesn’t forget anything.
I particularly enjoyed one of the characters who was introduced near the end of the previous book and played a large role throughout much of this book.
It is no easy road.”And I am very tempted to take you up on that offer of abandonment Gene, because your second novel in The Book of the New Sun was such a huge pain in the ass to get through, even at its scant 275 pages.
Although, I'm pretty worried that it'll go the way of LOST and just keep setting up mystery upon mystery upon mystery and never conclude anything in a reasonable way.I'm saving my final opinion until I've read all of them (still not sure if I'm going to), because this is really only 1/4 of the huge novel The Book of the New Sun.
I finished this book over a week ago, before I was away and busy and stressed for a week. I left myself just one note in the draft file for the book review, and it reads: "oh my god, having characters that do not care about anything is not interesting!"Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
While the plot continues with the story Wolfe started in The Shadow of the Torturer, structurally Wolfe gets a little funkier with his second book. I liked it a lot, even though understanding it is sorta like seeking clarity in a broken mirror floating down in swift-flowing river.
Iako sam se nadao da će biti bolje, moram da priznam da sam se razočarao - ono što me je kod Viteza/Čarobnjaka jezivo iznerviralo prisutno je i ovde - bespotrebno putešestvije sa hiljadu skretanja s puta koja ni na koji način ne doprinose priči.U globalu, svet je sjajno osmišljen, protagonista privlačan, poredak stvari obećava, ali realizacija je klimava i, što je nagore, dosadna. Digresije radi digresija radi popunjavanja papira udavile su suštinu.Vulfu dajem kredit zbog trilogije o Latru, naročito zbog prvog dela, ali ovo jednostavno ne pije vodu.
If ever there was a "marmite" series in fantasy, it would be Gene Wolfe's Book of the New Sun. To its admirers, it's one of the most brilliant, literary works in the genre; to its detractors, it's frustrating and overly cryptic.Either way, Wolfe's creation is like nothing else in fantasy.
The little background details have a way of becoming important later, and not everyone is what they seem at first -- even the protagonist.Yet, Wolfe's world-creation rivals Tolkien's in its richness and color.
More of that, please.This is the second book in the series, continuing the picaresque travels of Severian and his companions, including a new one, north from the city of Nessus.
Second of the four volumes of the Book of the New Sun. Last time I attempted the book I only made it 2.5 volumes in.
Hoping I'll do better this time.Dialogue contrived (some of the characters are far too eloquent, and the lower-class ones are indicated primarily by dropped g's).
But this a trip into the deep future, a pleasure to read because the author is smart but he doesn't show it off; the Book of the New Sun is filled with historical and mythological treasures filtered through the eyes of humans one million years from now.
I found this one much more confusing than the first book. Going to try the third one anyways.
I am by no means competent to review this literary masterpiece, but — having read the litany of confusion on the review pages of this volume and its companions — I wish to state the following, simply in order to be helpful.1.
It is impossible to understand The Book of the New Sun on a first reading.
He loves to play with symbols, and he does it on practically every page of this book; but most of the time he does it playfully, as a literary conceit, and for the entertainment of the best-read among his readers.
This book is what I consider a *Difficult Reading Experience*, in the same way that any book that prefers to be overflowing with myth references can be, thoroughly confusing the reader if you're not reading the text on that level and probably confusing the hell out of the reader even if you are.In that respect, this is probably a worse book than the first, which at least had a fairly comprehensible plot, character development, and fairly easy progression.On the other hand, this one had some shockingly great action scenes that led to Severian's capture, reconfirmation within the ranks, a descent into the underworld, a jaunt with the morlocks, and a quiet season at the playhouse.
The worldbuilding became clearer, and a few things (like the antechamber) really caught my attention.
Still didn't really like it though, with all the stomach churning torturer stuff and vaguely misogynistic parts about women's physical weakness and luscious half-clothed bodies.
At this point, I wanted to throw up.) (hide spoiler)]I think what bothers me the most about these first two books of the New Sun is how very much they were written by a man, about a man, for men.
Where it's OK to say squicky things about women, or ignore people of other races, because "only white boys read this stuff, right?" Well...
It weaves a spell perhaps not as powerful as the first, but surreal fantasy is such a hard line to follow. Balancing the character and the events enough to make them connect with the reader and at the same time give the impression of the phantasmagoric can easily become too unmoored and unengaging. Wolfe succeeds and I will read the 3rd installment. Just not real soon. There's only so much odalisquing eidolons with teratoid eremites that apotropaic heliotropes can counter with cacogens.
For an in-depth assessment, check out my blog series SUNS, SUNS, SUNS at Kateofmind.blogspot.com
http://www.fantasyliterature.com/revi...
While brilliant, I can't imagine anyone saying at this point, "wow, exciting series, can't wait for the next one!" And mean it, unless you are a student of mythology, experimental literature and want to do some showing off yourself in reading almost incomprehensible books.
Probably not, but at this point, I would not recommend starting this series unless you are a heavy college literature MFA graduate or wanna be, or perhaps you should read the first one, enjoy it, and quit there.
With all of the water and drowning references in the series, perhaps: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mesoamer...
IMHO it's best to treat all four "books" of The Book of the New Sun as one novel rather than a series, and read them one right after the other -- which, unfortunately, I haven't done to this point.The overall work deserves much more than three stars, though it requires much persistence and determination to both get through it and think about all the subtext and implications (and preferably a reread or two); my three-star rating is just for Claw when considered as a separate novel.
He gives a quiet, thoughtful reading that really works for the material.
Severian had previously been given an artefact, the basis of an old religion, called ‘The Claw of The Conciliator’ and the powers of the claw allowed him to escape.
This helps to place the action within a certain baroque and decadent framework.I confess I do not feel qualified to provide a review that does justice to this series, since I feel, firstly, that one needs to reread it several times to pick up on the hidden items and clues that Wolfe has slipped into the text.However, just as a first reading, it is a marvellous experience, full of colour and adventure, peopled with a galimaufray of characters and narrated by Severian himself, who is surely one of the most complex characters to have emerged from Twentieth Century fiction.
