https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40293.Pastwatch
Orson Scott Card’s very entertaining 1996 novel Pastwatch: The Redemption of Christopher Columbus is a time travel book and so much more.Many great science fiction / fantasy writers have had fun and great success with time travel as an extension of their speculative vision.
There seems to be as many approaches to the time travel conundrum as there are writers, but generally falling into one of two camps.
From here comes the next step of travel, and so Card is off.The subject is good ole Christopher Columbus and his world-changing voyage.
No one can begrudge Card for using Sci-Fi as a field for propaganda: the medium itself (world-creation/world-defining) by nature almost requires it.
If you're the sort who watches the history channel and finds it profound, somehow missing the propaganda within a narrative of human actions throughout recorded time which asserts a long succession of wars to be an adequate measure of the passage of human activity, than perhaps you'll have no problem with Card's proposed defense for european colonialism (his thesis: it could have been worse--we could have let the natives handle things!).
Hunahpu is a Mayan historian whose thesis that a great civilization was on the rise in the Caribbean -- until the arrival of Columbus -- proves unpopular with his colleagues, except for Diko.She believes that Columbus' prophetic vision and his obsession with sailing west was hardly divine but the work of some alternate version of Pastwatch, which reached back in time and tampered with history, perhaps to avert the conquest of Europe by the bloodthirsty tribes of Mesoamerica.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Another superb novel by OSC. Apart from Empire which I did not like, I have found Card's novels to be consistently excellent and both Speaker for the Dead and Hart's Hope are on my list of "All Time Favorites" (with Ender's Game not far behind. I was surprised to see that this novel was not among the list of nominees for any of the SF awards during its year of eligibility. It was certainly worthy of being recognized as one of the best of 1996. RECOMMENDED!!
This book is in the key of C Minor, because it's just that tragic. Final Verdict: 0.0000000000000000000000000000000000000001 Stars Sometimes, English teachers make horrible choices.Pastwatch is no exception.It was a terrible, horrible, no-good, very bad book. Three Big Things that Epically Suck About Pastwatch, in No Particular Order The First: The Plot HolesIn Pastwatch, the characters go back in time and try to prevent the people of the past from dying. In one scene of the book, Manjam (a scie
Sometimes, English teachers make horrible choices.Pastwatch is no exception.It was a terrible, horrible, no-good, very bad book.
In one scene of the book, Manjam (a scientist) explains to them how the Pastwatching works, but this description is shoddy at best, leaving many readers (including myself) totally mindfucked.
The only scene in the entire book that I even partially liked was the last two-and-a-half pages of chapter nine.
I can already tell this is going to be absolutely horrible.I hope you are excited for how much I'm going to tear this book apart.[image error]Five Minutes LaterI'm feeling better about Pastwatch.
In this book, Card is exploring the idea that a group of people would deliberately go back in time to alter events in such a way that human history would work out "better." The height of hubris, definitely, for any group of mortals to think they could predict future events accurately enough to know what to "improve." I think that Card is right that humanity would have to be in the brink of extinction before they would permit such an experiment.There are lots of ideas in this book...global warming, geopolitics, time travel, the complicated and interrelated history of European and ancient American peoples....it's also an exploration of the life of Christopher Columbus, which is very interesting.
Columbus himself is the only fully fleshed-out character in the novel.
But don't read it if you have to have a character you love in order to really enjoy a novel.
Even more dubious is Card's contention that the Native Americans were on the road to huge technological discoveries and massive, centralized empires worthy of competing with European powers in ship-building and exploration.
Columbus' voyage and the succeeding colonizings by European countries stopped this enormous Central-American empire from taking shape.
I put the book down as soon as Card began expounding that Malthus was right: Western culture will lead us in the year 2100 to the total destruction of the Amazon rainforest, all the topsoil in the world, and the total destruction of all arable land in the world.
Thomas Malthus could have written this book.
Orson Scott Card nos enseña como NO narrar. Eso por no mencionar toda la ideología sin masticar qué pretende que nos comamos por su cara bonita.
He believes since he's a highly respected author that it's okay to break every god damn rule of writing (no, I don't me the grey area of rules or even a blending of good or bad to balance out.)It's like he makes a list of all the worst things a writer can do in a story and then goes at it.This book, Pastwatch, is perhaps the worst book I've EVER read.
So they change it back.The only good parts of this book is the stories from the past.
3.5 "Who am I, she thought, if I dare to answer prayers intended for the gods?  Pastwatch es una organización en un futuro post-apocaliptico que se dedica a observar mediante máquinas el pasado de la raza humana. Hay diferentes personas siguiendo diversos proyectos, y la novela se centra en un principio en Tagiri que empieza a estudiar las raices de su familia en África y termina interesada en la esclavitud y la convierte en su 'cruzada'. Y dejenme decirles que hay muchos fanáticos 'cruzados' en
Pero es su hija, Diko, quien más tarde descubre varias cosas que vienen a cambiar el curso de sus investigaciones y se convierte todo en una obsesión acerca de cómo cambió Colón la historia de Europa y América, y quizás más.Después se pasa a convertir en una especulación de si es válido cambiar la Historia, en que dan ganas de citarles hasta al dr.
Y también me gustó la especulación acerca de los cambios que influyen en la Historia, todos esos 'qué pasaria si' que encontré interesantes.“Who is to say that the change these people made didn't end up with a worse result than the events they tried to avoid?” Kemal grinned at them wickedly.
It is later discovered that the past has been changed.
Eventually, it is decided to change the past and destroy the present in order to make the world better by altering the outcome of Columbus' voyage to the New World.
The reason it is decided to change the past is it is clear that in the present mankind has ruined the world and is headed for extinction.
Interspersed with the chapters about Pastwatch are chapters concerning Columbus' attempts to obtain ships for a voyage West.
Two thirds of the way through the book the attempt to change the past is undertaken.
It's a science-fiction, utopian novel as well as a thoughtful and well-researched reflection on History and its twists, a moral tale filled with lovely, compassionate and clever characters.
In the end, I came to realize that a villain was not really needed and would probably have made things more difficult for Card, who chose to stay close to the historical facts.
In any case, it's an intriguing book and definitely worth reading if you enjoy historical novels or science fiction.
I was really excited about this book. Most of Card's works are brilliant. An alt-history-sci-fi tale centered around Christopher Columbus what could go wrong? Well a lot.The characters are emotionless, devoid of any characteristics. Columbus is turned into this demi-sex god who women can't resist. All of this could be forgiven with a decent story, instead we get a heavy handed preaching sermon of the authors beliefs. Nevermind the gaping plot holes with Pastwatch since there is little oversight. This reads more like a college thesis than a novel.
Great, great book. I've mentioned recently in reviews that I've read some time travel books people have recommended as "as good as Connie Willis" and they never turn out to be; this is the only other book I can think of that I put on the same level as Doomsday Book and To Say Nothing of the Dog (though I read it first, so really, it was more like reading Doomsday Book and thinking it was as good as Pastwatch). Highly recommended.
This was a very interesting read- not your typical time-travel sci-fi book. It had a really cool view of history and the book really makes you think. Welker-sensei, I think you'd probably enjoy this one!
Normally I'd give a short summary and then go into my opinions, but I don't feel comfortable giving a summary here because one of the most important plot points isn't something you discover until half way through the book, and I'm not going to ruin that for you guys.One of the most interesting parts of this book is that it takes place during two different time periods, and neither of them is ours.
“I guess every writer who considers writing fiction occasionally has the experience of running across a book whose plot is one he was working on himself, thinking it an original idea.I have had an idea for a SF novel very much along the lines of Pastwatch for at least 10 years.
"Guns of the South" and the "Axis of Time" trilogy are the two most interesting full length novels of this genre I've read in the last ten years and Pastwatch is at least as good.There is one issue that Pastwatch didn't take up that is central to my treatment and that is ...I think I'll keep that a secret in case I ever write my book.(2011) Turns out Arthur C.
Such a headtrip for history buffs, this story invovles time travel, social culpability for genocide, archaeology, and more!
He was just a victim of his own time and circumstance." A weird moral that belongs next to theories like, "Could Hitler have been a great artist instead?" in the big book of, "Things we don't need to waste our time thinking about." Some times people do good things, some times people do bad things.
And when people do really really bad things, I don't think we need to waste our time thinking, "But what if more people would've just helped them do more good things?" Don't waste your time reading the false redemption of one of history's villains, find a book praising one of history's many unsung heroes.
This is only the second Orson Scott Card book I’ve read. When it comes to sci-fi, I’m an  Arthur C. Clarke fan all the way, and don’t dabble in much else. As with  Ender’s Game  I came to Pastwatch via a friend’s recommendation. She had others of Card’s books she liked more, but I opted to try this one because of the subject material. I was curious to see how Card would depict Columbus, a prominent figure in Card’s (and my) native culture of Mormonism. In short, I didn’t find the book especially
This is only the second Orson Scott Card book I’ve read.
When it comes to sci-fi, I’m an  Arthur C.
She had others of Card’s books she liked more, but I opted to try this one because of the subject material.
I was curious to see how Card would depict Columbus, a prominent figure in Card’s (and my) native culture of Mormonism.
As for Mr. Card’s depiction of Columbus?
This is a good story using a well-worn sci-fi premise: humanity manipulating space and time for a noble end.
If you’ve liked other Orson Scott Card, I recommend this one.
I enjoyed this book very much.
It is one of the best fiction books I have read in months.
I have this to say: You will not like this book if you think that Orson Scott Card is an evil person.
You will not like this book if you believe that things like fidelity in marriage and treating others with respect are ridiculous.
The book caused me to introspect and think about the ideas it discusses, and I feel that I am a little bit better for having read it.
Loved it!!!
I LOVE time-travel/historical fiction/alternate reality stories.
I am also in love with books that can broaden my horizons, tell a compelling story, and have great writing.
This definitely fit the bill.
It is well written, had a great plot, the characters were interesting, and it was thought provoking.My love of this genre started for me with "the Magic Tunnel" where children travel back to 1664, when New York was New Amsterdam.
I also loved "The Devil's Arithmetic" where 12 year old Hannah travels back to Poland in the 1940's and experiences the time of the Holocaust.
Pastwatch was one of those books that got better and better as I read. The concept of being able to change history is incredibly fascinating, both from a physics time-travel point of view, and from a historical/philosophical context. The concept of "Pastwatch" - being able to scroll through history as if watching it on film (or microfilm, as it were, which is how I pictured it in the book) is both well-constructed and well-executed in the book. Definitely a recommended read for history buffs, sci-fi nerds, philosophers, and humanitarians.
This has been on my short "got to get to" list for some time now, mainly since hearing Mr. Card speak at a special gathering, and the opportunity presented itself here in the midst of my "catch-up on my missed '90s sci-fi phase." Many in the audience at the OSC event spoke highly of this, and I can sense its appeal when it first came out, back in those halcyon days of so many great science fiction and fantasy television series and books were coming out in waves, and the Bulls could never lose, and life was so good.
Outside of Ender's Game I'm not a big fan of Scott Card's work -- the few I've tried to read have put me to sleep.
I don't think Scott Card fully understands how this world works, though; the explanation of how Pastwatch functions isn't real clear, and when it comes to sending people back in time FOR THE FIRST TIME IN THIS HISTORY, they are inexplicably fully equipped to do this, understand perfectly how it will work...despite never having done it before.
Read this for book club and doubt I would have bothered otherwise, but it was more readable than most of his work outside Ender's Game.
What a fantastic novel! Premise: Historians from the distant future can watch events in the past to learn about humankind. They focus on Christopher Columbus and determine he caused a series of horrible problems when he set sail for the Orient. With twin plotlines following Columbus in the 1400's and the Pastwatchers in the future, this book explores incredible themes of change and the impact of one human life on the world. A must-read for fans of world history, as well as fans of Doctor Who, Back to the Future, and other such fun time-travel romps!
I really hope somebody makes a movie from this book...
The Pastwatchers recognize these figures must be time travellers from an alternate future, a future so bad that its denizens have resorted to altering the past in order to erase it and of course, in the process, themselves.[Why should that be an inevitable consequence?
This notion is spurred by the discovery that the earth is not in fact recovering, as people had thought: any recovery will be centuries or millennia in the future, by which time the human species will be long gone.
Fictional books that relate or discuss actual history get me confused often.
I'm never sure which parts are true and which are fictional.
The author here gets pretty in-depth about Columbus' life leading up to his journey to find an already found land.
Which is pretty interesting, but I've always got that voice in the back of my head wondering how much is BS.
Not BS in a bad way, just kinda BS in a fictional way.Anyway, aside from my own confusion about reading, the story concept was original and well developed.
Pastwatch: The Redemption of Christopher Columbus is no different.It starts out with a small prologue, that explains how the world has ended up in the not so distant future.
It has become, while not Utopian, a more understanding society, interested in learning from mistakes.We then are shot into the past at a look at Christopher Columbus' life.
In the course of their research they also are joined by Hunahpu and Kemal.The researchers come to the conclusion that Columbus must be stopped, but also learn that the future has changed the past before.
