https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183109.The_Mystery_Off_Glen_Road
Possibly because the central conflict (as opposed to the mystery) is heart-warming: Trixie's brother Brian is unable to purchase the jalopy (this is the greatest bit of period language ever) he's saved up for because he uses the money to fix the clubhouse, and Trixie sacrifices every bit of dignity she's ever had to ensure he can get it, after all.There is a lot of goofiness centered on Trixie pretending to be in love with Honey's cousin Ben (introduced in this book), but the thing is, despite what her parents say at the end of the book, I'm convinced no one would have let Trixie use the diamond ring as collateral, and Brian certainly would have objected.
Trixie and the other members of their club, The Bob Whites of the Glen, worked hard to earn the money to repair their new clubhouse, the neglected old gatehouse on the Wheeler Estate.
The kids band together and volunteer to act as gamekeepers for Mr. Wheeler's game preserve on his large estate to earn money, and to ensure that Trixie's brother Brian can still buy the old car he's had his eye on for some time.
:) The Trixie Belden series has 39 books, written between 1948 and 1986.
Oddly sexist and racist, this one required so much on-the-fly editing in reading aloud I can’t recommend it even for big kids you’ve given the old-book-let’s-discuss talk to. I wish they had adjusted the text and at least replaced the “lazy squaw” commentary with something else when they reissued it. Gleeps.I am reminded of the pro-segregation Bobbsey Twins mystery I read in second grade.
I think i must finally be an adult. I spent a lot of this book thinking over and over "why not just *tell* someone????" [because then there wouldn't be a story, of course!] But i still have a lot of residual love for this series (and this particular book - i remembered way more scenes than i expected).
There's not really a 'mystery,' but there's a lot of character building and family bonding and I love it.I'm not really a fan of how Mart calls Trixie and (sometimes) Honey 'squaw' but the special sibling relationship between Mart and Trixie is the greatest.Recommended 9/10+ for scary situations.
In this outing we only get low-stakes tension (dudes being jerks and the inability to have a conversation to resolve problems). We’re a third of the way into the book before the possibility of poachers is introduced. But there’s no actual poachers (because of the failure to have conversations), and the only weird clue is an Encyclopedia Brown mystery. Pacing is off and the teen angst is thick. Going in I didn’t remember anything about this book, nor do I recall anything about the next, so hopefully things get better once the ghost writers come in with book #7.
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
This Trixie Belden book was so boring, there is no mystery to this book and no villain at all.
It's more an adventure type story, there is no sleuthing and not much suspense.
I'm also incredibly irritated by the idea that anyone would consider shooting their own dogs, when it's the owners responsibility not to let them run wild through the woods unattended and you can't blame a dog for acting like an animal.
Regardless of the year this was written that is so wrong and deeply offensive.So far my experience with Trixie Belden books runs hot an cold.
So this one is another favorite of mine in the Trixie Belden series. Mostly because of this: " 'What's all this about a ring?' Ben interrupted. 'It sounds as though you two were engaged or something.' Trixie sniffed. 'If Jim were the last man on earth I wouldn't marry him.' 'Is that so?' Jim gave her a gentle push and Trixie found herself sitting in the snowbank with Di. " AHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH (As you can probably tell, I ship Jixie HARD. SO CUTE. But this is supposed to be a review...woops...you can't expect all of my reviews to be sensible, right?!)
Good again ... enjoying these kids who were my friends when I was their age ... so nice that they haven't grown up!August 2013 ... good read, again. Good, fun reading, easy and quick, and nostalgic, too, as I recall spending so much time with these friends in my youth.
I think it's safe to say that this was my least favorite of the series thus far. And if I never hear the phrase "lazy squaw" again it will be too soon.
Almost always makes my short list of favorites, despite the preposterous "non mystery", for the wonderful bond between the Belden siblings and the fabulous fall setting.
I miss Trixie Belden...maybe I should see if I can find the series in some old book store...
I reread this book because I’m trying to get a handle on young adult fiction for a piece I wanted to write for NaNoWriMo. I adored Trixie Belden as a kid and still have some of my old books.
I think I actually liked her more than Nancy Drew because no one else that I knew read her, so she felt special.
It’s been almost 70 years since this was first written, so I felt like my rating needed to take into account the time period in which it was written plus my thoughts when I first read it.
This a fun story reminiscent of Enid Blyton stories.
One reason I prefer Enid Blyton mysteries over Three Investigators or Hardy Boys is the nice family/friends setting as against narrow focus on the crime and investigation.
As a child, probably the crime and investigation is more fascinating.
There Enid Blyton scores as does this one.
Maybe not as good as Enid Blyton as still there is comparatively more focus on the mystery and less on elements such as food, the friendly banter, enjoy the natural scenery etc.
I slowly amassed the whole series as first editions (it seemed so glamourous as a kid owning precious books that were older than me!) by saving all my pocket money to buy them from the local secondhand store.
They sat in a back corner of the store, thankfully ignored by everyone else, as I slowly acquired them through pocket money and then in a mass swoop for Christmas.
I love reliving my childhood again by reading this entire collection.
This was my very favorite Trixie Belden book as a child. I laughed and laughed and laughed! Then I reread all my favorite parts and laughed some more. :)
I enjoy this book as we get introduced to a new character: Mr. Maypenny, whos is a delightfully charming older man who becomes a good friend to the Bob-Whites. We also see more of Mr. Lytell who owns the country store off Glen Road.This is an easier paced story with not a lot of high-end action or drama, but it is still good and if you are a Trixie fan its a must-read.
In The Mystery Off Glen Road, Trixie is trying to convince her parents she is grown up and feminine enough so they will give her the ring.
The real reason Trixie wants the diamond ring is so she can use it as collateral for her oldest brother, Brian - he is trying to buy his dream jalopy (car), but doesn't have the money for a downpayment.
Trixie feels she and her brothers can earn the money, if they can convince the owner not to sell the car to someone else.
Trixie and Honey agree to take on the gamekeeper's duties - again to help Brian earn money for his car.
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
– Real world, pre - computer pre - air conditioning, pre - cell phone.Written approximately?
– 1956.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning in homes, especially the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden, Honey, Jim, and her brothers work as gamekeepers and discover the elusive Mr. Maypenny.
Jim, Brian, and Mart struggle to repair the clubhouse before the winter storm hits.Notes for the reader: A great mystery!
Trixie and Honey begin working as game wardens on the Wheeler estate when the old game warden quits.
Trixie gives the diamond ring that Jim had given her to Mr. Lytell to hold the car until they get paid for their warden duties.
Turns out that the poacher is Mr. Maypenny, a man who's lived in the woods for decades and who owns twenty acres that he has refused to sell to Mr. Wheeler.
Thus, no real criminal in this book, and Mr. Maypenny takes the job of game warden.
Next book is set in Arizona at Christmas time.
Trixie pretends to be in lurve with Honey's cousin Ben so her dad will get her diamond ring out of the safe deposit box so she can give the ring to Mr. Lytell as security on the jalopy until she and the other kids can make $50 being gamekeepers on the Wheeler estate...
kind of like a low-rent Gift of the Magi.Oh, and there's the whole subplot of Trixie and Honey thinking there's a unicycle-riding poacher operating in the Wheeler game preserve.
It's like if someone doesn't take Bobby off her hands, she'll snap and start throwing the contents of her canning pantry at everyone.
I do not remember when I first read this and then I read them so much after the first reading that I couldn't have kept track of all of them.
So now I am keeping track.
:-)This is probably at least the 20th time I have read this book.
This series was my favorite [along with Narnia]and I read and reread them ALL.
TIME.
This is not one of my favorites of the series.
You do get to meet Mr. Maypenny, who is a great character addition to the books.
Still a fun read.
Having so much fun re-reading these again!!!
Trixie Belden and the Happy Valley Mystery is book number nine in the Trixie Belden mystery series. Trixie Belden and Honey Wheeler are best friends, horse lovers, and detectives who always seem to accidentally find a mystery waiting to be solved. In this book, the pair find themselves as gamekeepers for Honey's dad and they have a suspicion that a dangerous poacher is on the game preserve.I love the Trixie Belden Mystery Series because it combines two of my favorite things - - horses and mystery!
For Christmas, my parents grabbed me the entire Trixie Belden set and I couldn't put them down. Even with a learning disability, I devoured the books. I look back now and I find that Trixie Belden was much more age related to young girls, particularly to me, reading the books than Nancy Drew. I found that they weren't so "over the top" either. I will be doing the same thing with my granddaughters if and when I have them, even if I have to stalk every used bookstore.
The mystery does not actually start until about 80 pages in, but I enjoyed that, unlike some of the others in this series, this had a plausible plot and outcome with no violence and with non-stereotypical bad guys. More fun for young mystery lovers - and something of a lesson in 1950s gender roles. As usual, poor Trixie who is so NOT a 1950s homemaker, has to put up with all the teasing about her tomboy ways. (Published in the early '50s.)
When the Bob-Whites need some quick cash to repair their clubhouse, they take on the job of the Wheeler's gamekeeper. But then Trixie thinks there is a poacher in the preserve. This mystery makes no real sense and is fairly slow. The fun character moments just aren't enough to save this book.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
The fourth book in the Trixie Belden series. This one was a mystery without a mystery as such, which was a bit strange. But, I found it quite in keeping with what you can be like as a kid, and you’re on an adventure, reading a whole lot into very little.Not a whole lot happened with this one, aside from the introduction of Mr Maypenny to the series. Aside from that, it was a fun read.
This is an old favorite. When things get stressful there is nothing better than Trixie. I have always enjoyed Glen Road. The kids are realistic and not perfect but Trixie always comes through with a big heart.
