https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631138.The_Clue_of_the_Dancing_Puppet
Actually taking my time instead of speed-reading gives the twists and turns of a book like this more impact. Tammi reminded me of the character Victoria Justice played in Spectacular!, ironically with the same name (down to the distinct spelling). This one was enjoyable indeed.
HAS THERE EVER BEEN A CREEPIER COVER THAN THIS?!
I was cleaning and I stumbled upon a bunch of these Nancy Drew books.
My mom and grandma used to buy them for me each trip to Half Price way back in the day and I remember being super obessed with this series.
I don't think it was the best Nancy Drew book I've ever read, but it wasn't horrible.
The way the puppet was described was creepy and I wish there had been more of the actual puppet doing stuff.
One of Mr. Drew's clients has a mystery for Nancy to solve and so she and Bess and George head out to the Van Pelt estate.
Yet another excellent addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
I was going through some of things when I discovered this worn out book that I read when I was in 3'rd grade.
I skimmed through it and remembered it immediately.
Some book lover.On to the point, I also remember this book a lot.
It was creepier than other Nancy Drew books and I loved every moment of it.
From then on I told myself I was going to read every Nancy Drew book, but turns out I only read five.
The five books I already read don't count.
And thus my Nancy Drew journey begins!
I recently came into possession of a box of old books, most of them Nancy Drew mysteries!
I have been reading them sequentially, as much as possible!
While reading this volume, I noticed something I hadn't really paid attention to before!
The author(s) end most of their chapters with exclamation points!
I'm all for enthusiasm, but after a while, it gets really annoying!Seriously, folks ...
is there anything 18-year-old Nancy can't do?
In this volume, she's not only a sleuth, but in her spare time, she becomes the lead actress of a local theater group, replacing the erstwhile star on a moment's notice.
Shhh... Not too old to read this... It's another lovely gentle old fashioned mystery where nobody gets hurt (too badly), and it does exactly what you think it will. In some ways, it's a bit like Scooby Doo without Shaggy & Scooby and where Fred is a girl - the same wholesome image with the assurance that the baddies will be caught. One small clue - it's not Old Man Withers...
I picked this up wanting a cute, light read that I knew I would enjoy. I've read it three or four times before, so there wasn't many surprises, but its always fun for me to re-read old favorites. Nancy Drew never fails to entertain me, and make me love her more.
When I first started reading novels, it was the mystery novels I adored the most, especially Nancy Drew. For some reason, the eeriness of this book stood out in my memory, and I found myself in the bookstore buying a copy of it recently.... and I still enjoyed it!
The most interesting character in this book was Tammi Whitlock.
I was also surprised that in a earlier scene, when a suspect's car that hit her car is brought into a garage, Nancy doesn't ask what the owner of the car looks like!
I was also surprised Nancy doesn't suspect a certain person that could be involved with jewelry thieving, especially when it seemed pretty obvious.
Overall though, this is a pretty good book, the story moves along very smoothly, and there isn't as much coincidences here, as there is in most other original ND books.
"The clue of the dancing Puppet" is number 39 in the Nancy Drew mystery series.
The book is sufficiently interesting and intriguing and holds up the Nancy Drew banner high.
The story is about mysterious apparitions of a dancing puppet which seems a bit spooky and eerie in the beginning but the reader gradually starts to piece the puzzle together as the story proceeds.The inclusion of excerpts from the works of Shakespeare made it even more interesting.The charachter of Tammi was rather amusing and added a lot of drama to the book.Definitely not the best of the lot but not bad either.
I remember always liking this one, and I still highly enjoyed it this time around.
There was an interesting moment in chapter one, where it says "Mrs. Drew had passed away from a sudden illness." It was always somewhat of a mystery what happened to Nancy's mother, as it had previously only ever said she died when Nancy was three, giving no details.
Oh, and we can now add acting to the list of things Nancy does better than anyone, and poor Bess has lost five pounds but still has to hear condescending remarks about her weight from George.
I know I say it all the time but: poor Bess.
When I was a young girl, summers included time to read Nancy Drew books. The Clue of the Dancing Puppet was my favorite. There was something very spooky about the life size dancing puppet featured in this book ... plus there was a local theater theme setting. I decided to reread this book over the weekend and thoroughly enjoyed it! Now I am off to dust off more Nancy Drew books here -- and find the others at the local library. Such nostalgic fun!
This was one of my favorites from when I was a young girl reading these books. This was a pretty straightforward mystery for her to solve. Although I did crack up at her car getting damaged (again), and her being able to go directly to the garage (24 hours no less!) to get it fixed immediately. She must have gotten at least 4 car accidents and new cars since reading these again. Great memories.
good Nancy Drew story
A dancing apparition? Seemingly unconnected jewelry heists? Nancy Drew killing it as an amateur actress? Hell yeah.
back to picking on Bess's weight
This was probably one of my least favorite Nancy Drew books. I'm not sure if it is because I've read to many of them, but to me it seemed really obvious who was guilty and what would happen next. For this reason I would recommend that people read a different Nancy Drew book instead of this one. Although if you are looking for a quick mystery, you can certainly read this book
After this when Nancy goes back to the theater she finds the amateur actress, Tammi , dancing like the dancing puppet.
I enjoyed reading the book “Nancy Drew and The Clue of the Dancing Puppet”, because it kept my attention and I never knew what would happen next.
Like on page eighteen Nancy got a call that said “I’m the dancing puppet, go away!” This quote makes you wonder what would happen next and makes you want to keep on reading to find out.
We later find out two crooks are behind the puppet, using the inside mechanics to make it dance by itself and scare people off (quick side-note, it only dances on the lawn in the middle of the night...if it wanted to scare people off, a more convenient time could have been written into the story).
Turns out the Footlighters, who are a group staying at the Van Pelt Estate and performing, have some not so great people working with them, such as Tammi Whitlock.
The Clue of the Dancing Puppet  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 39th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. When the eerie performances of a life-size puppet begin to haunt the old Van Pelt estate, eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew is asked to help an amateur acting group rid themselves of the ghostly dancer. But when Nancy searches the attic of the old mansion, she learns that someone is trying to keep her from solving the case. Will Nancy and her friends be able to solve the m
Will Nancy and her friends be able to solve the mystery before someone is hurt?
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
In fact, I read another book before I finished this one.
Ned and the boys fly in (wow - it must be nice to have enough money to catch a last minute flight with your friends and fly in) to see Nancy step in as the lead actress in a community theatre production being "coached" by professional actors.
The word coached should be replaced with directed and I'm not sure why these professionals are working with this amateur group - it's never stated.
In the end, the bad guys are caught, the theatre company continues and Nancy goes home to pout about not having another mystery to solve.
I read piles of Nancy Drew books (possibly this one, too!) when I was young.
I believe this is the first I have read since I stopped reading them, but I suppose there might have been one thrown in there.There were some uses of the word "girl" that were a little annoying, but mostly, it was a fun diversion.
I think that can actually rather be the case, and I wonder what reading that had on the girls who read these books.
Did it discourage others that they wouldn't be able to ask questions because they didn't think themselves attractive?I was conflicted by the mentions of Bess being on a diet.
Nancy Drew is going to be part of a play first as a backstage crew to the leading lady !. Anyway her real reason for going there is to solve a mystery . Every night there is this strange puppet in a ballerina costume dancing in the front lawn . Will Nancy find out why? to find out read the book.
(There is some hideous fat-shaming in this book; Bess watches TV in order to skip dessert, once a dessert is substituted with a healthier one, and at another time she reaches into the fridge and grabs a jar of mayonnaise, to the immediate derision of George and Nancy.)There's very little plot and it's all in the last two chapters.
We also find that Nancy is a skilled actress, and the troupe she's performing with is called the Footlighters, but every time I see it I think Foo Fighters.Nancy loses consciousness when an unknown assailant throws a cannonball at her head.
Nancy, Bess, and George lose consciousness when someone rams their parked car.
Mr. Drew has a client which is involved with the theater at the Van Pelt Estate.There's a problem with some kind of dancing puppet that appears and then disappears, so Nancy and George go to the estate to join the Footlighters and Bess and try to find out what is going on.There's a nasty character named Tammi who is an actress and opposed to the girls joining, and who is quite opposed to Nancy.The girls do their normal sleuthing and find a witch puppet in a hayloft.
The puppets contain something that they want, badly.At one point Tammi actually physically attacks Nancy, she's that jealous.The story is a good addition to the series.
My love of reading started when i was young, and it gives me immense pleasure to provide books to Spread the Word Nevada, an organization that passes them on to children in the community.
Sometimes I'll find a book I remember reading when I was young and will read it again before passing it on.I don't rate these books using my normal scale, instead I give most of them three stars.
This isn't a Criticism of the book, simply my way of rating them as good for children.
I would recommend this book to a friend because it has alot of detail and the kind of genre the book
This is a decent nancy Drew book, but I enjoy the ones more where she gets to travel and this one is set in her home state.
Plot is about an actor who found a journal that talked about a secret that would make someone a lot of money.
So on top of being jewelry thieves they look for the secret treasure on the side and use mechanical puppets to try to scare away the inhabitants of the home.
the setting is a theatre company which is kind of fun.
There is no big nancy vs.
villain scene where she has to use her wits to escape and capture them.
Nancy really knocks it out of the park in this one.
In addition to solving the big mystery faster than the local police department can, she also takes the stage by storm in a Civil War play performed by the Footlighters, a local amateur theater group.
As I've been reading through these books in non-sequential order, I've noticed that in the later books, Nancy faces quite a bit more danger and physical harm than she does in earlier ones.
But of course, she presses on, and through solving the mystery of the puppets and a local jewelry theft ring, she manages to raise a good bit of funds for the Footlighters.
