https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/826542.The_Love_Machine
Finally I realized what -- besides the endless heat wave -- would make Summer 2010 truly one for the record books: a little summer Love Machine!
The Love Machine isn't a timeless classic of Western Literature like Dolls, but it was sure a lot of fun.
My favorite thing about this book was all the insane period details, which I fervently hope describe a culture that actually existed, even though that's pretty hard to believe.
I LOVE JACQUELINE SUSANN!
Somewhere underneath the shallow exterior of Robin lays a scared boy with a mysterious and questionable past, with major "mama" issues and a severely neglected "inner child" (if that was even a phrase in common usage during the time period of this novel).
And for that, I grew to love Robin, though if he were a real man, I'd want to be several thousand yards away from him and all of his problems.
That all being said, when your brain needs candy and a whirlwind visit to a past that perhaps never existed, pick up a Susann novel and get lost in the scandal.
So guess what this teenage boy did -- I read them in private every time I got a chance.Of course I had heard every one talking about Valley and the movie made from it, but I had never heard anyone talking about The Love Machine, but as much as I enjoyed Valley, I enjoyed The Love Machine that much more.
He ranks up there with my favorite male characters in literature.I saw the movie based on this once, and it does not do the book any justice at all.
The book is a 1000 times better.
Don't make the same mistake.The book needed a good editor to trim out all the irrelevant and depressing side-stories (notable Ethel) and cut it down to maybe 300 pages not over 500 for a start!
It features gay men, seemingly in an effort to be even more phallocentric than the heterosexual main story (which was fragmented and contradictory) allowed.If you are glassy-eyed and nostalgic for a time when men WERE men and acted like it then read this book as a reality check about how depressing it actually would have been.
JACQUELINE SUSANN "MEILĖS MAŠINA"Šią autorę aš tiesiog įsimylėjau perskaičiusi jos debiutinę knygą "Lėlių slėnis".
Mat kerėjo autorės gebėjimas rašyti apie tokius sudėtingus dalykus taip "lengvai" ir mergaitiškai.
Praktktiškai visas Susann knygas vienija panašios temos - populiarumas, karjera, šlovė, televizija, visas minėtų dalykų purvas ir tai apsunkinantys romantiški jausmai.
Ne dėl to jog jų nėra, o dėl to jog jis nieko nesureikšmina.
Tačiau toks požiūris slepia jo prisiminimus, vaikystę ir tikrąją jo asmenybę.
Tai tikrai nėra romanas iš kurio kvatosies ir prisiminsi kaip "lengvą skaitalą".
Nežinau ar tai buvo sugalvota tikslingai, ar taip tiesiog gavosi, tačiau pataikyta tiesiai į dešimtuką.
مش عارفة أكتب ريفيو عنها..
I was hoping for good, fun, and entertaining trash.
This is the prologue that tempted me to read the book:MAN CREATED THE MACHINE.A Machine does not feel love, hate or fear; it does not suffer from ulcers, heart attacks or emotional disturbances.Perhaps man’s only chance of survival is to become a machine.Some men have succeeded.A machine who passes for a man often rules societies – a dictator is a power machine in his country.
My favorite book is Valley of the Dolls, so I was inspired to re-read that and then try out her other books. This one just wasn't up to par. It didn't go anywhere and none of the characters are even likable
It's dated. The females characters are needy, clingy and pathetic, chasing after a vile ass of a man who isn't even likeable, let alone someone to literally worship. Is that what "real" men were imagined to be like in the 60s? Ugh.
Same kind of fun, trashy glamour as Valley of the Dolls and Once Is Not Enough, just not executed nearly as well.
This ain't trash. This is SOLID GOLD!
Just awful. Like, five-star-so-terrible-it's-wonderful awful. I read this book once a year and never, ever get sick of it.
I don't know how Jacqueline Susann was able to make Robin Stone such a prick yet still really likeable
Thanks to Grove-Atlantic Press, the novels of Jacqueline Susann are back in print 15 years after the mass market Bantam editions went out of print.
VALLEY OF THE DOLLS is still, after 30 years, one of the all-time bestselling novel of all time.
Those expecting a weak sophomore effort in LOVE MACHINE will be glad to hear that her second novel is actually the best-written of all her novels.
The reissued VALLEY had a quaint feeling of once being a very blunt and racy novel that had mellowed over the years (probably due to it being the blueprint for countless bestsellers over the next three decades).
I found it under my little sisters bed.
WTF I thought, she is supposed to be an 'intellectual' isn't this the same lady who wrote that 'dolls' book I secretly read at 14?
My (ex) bf wasn't back for days, and I was stuck upstate with too much time on my hands and too much family drama to ignore I decided to read it..Realised the Robin guy was...
Well, my boyfriend!!!
Couldn't put it down.
Decided to hate him.
I don't believe I learned about 'men' because of 'the love machine'.
This book is AWFUL...
No sugar coated love crap..
I'm not embarrassed, and I don't owe an explanation to anyone about this. Yes, I read Jacqueline Susann novels. And if you don't like that, well, clearly you haven't read one, or maybe you have no taste for kitsch, in which case, why are you looking at my page, anyways?? Go away, humorless voyeur!!
Think this suffered the misfortune of resting in the shadow of Valley of The Dolls, so I may have rated it higher had I read it out of that context. But definitely a great read. Hilarious and jaw dropping at parts.Um, good luck Maggie!
My favourite part involved psychoanalysis
The absolute best of all her books.
Depressing.

وصلت لصفحة ٣٣٠ وأحس بأنني اكتفيت من هذا المسلسل المكسيكي الذي لا ينتهي من حب وبغض وخيانات وعلاقات جنسية في غرف الفنادق وحياة خلف الكواليس لممثلين وممثلات وعارضات أزياء.رواية فاشلة ومملة . لا أدري كيف أجبرت نفسي على قراءة هذا العدد من الصفحات .! هل يحق لي تقييمها وأنا لم أُنهيها ؟ بالنسبة لي نعم، لأنّها رواية ذات نمط واحد وبرتابة واحدة ولا تغيير فيها سوى انتقال روبن ستون (البطل) من حضن عاشقة إلى حضن داعرة . الجمعة | ٢٠١٧/١٠/٢٧
Read this years ago. Can’t remember the story, but I read it, so couldn’t have been that bad.
Valley of the Dolls, but boring.
Weirdly boring. Horrible characters; my least favorite is Alfie, although he's a minor character; he's a bitch. And I was disappointed by Sergio, whom I thought was nice--until he almost beat up a woman. Amanda's story touched me. Other than that, it was boring trash.
So, I read this one after loving Valley of the Dolls, like many.
I think it's a structural flaw, actually, because like in Dolls, the really important characters are the ladies, but the plot of this one was held together by Robin Stone, who turned out to be rather boring and predictable but ostensibly draws the plot to its close.
I felt like by the end, Susann didn't know where to go with this sprawling, pretty ambitious novel with tons of characters - the chapters get choppier and choppier, with quick vignette-y check-ups with people you haven't heard from in 100 pages.
It took 21 years to read all three of Jacqueline Susann's big novels but I did it.
Of the three, I enjoyed "The Love Machine" the least.
Robin Stone, the titular "Love Machine" just isn't a likable fella.
In fact, very few characters in this book are likable.
Susann's other books had main characters who made mistakes but you could still enjoy, even Neely O'Hara.
There are a lot of characters in this book who are borderline sociopaths but most get away with some truly vile behavior.
The gay characters are presented far more progressively than in many other books of the time.
So enjoy and happy reading.
The book started off a little slow for me and I think it had a lot to do with the character of Amanda.
The book really picks up when we meet Maggie Stewart who overcomes her obstacles and hardships just to come out stronger and become a perfect match for Robin Stone, the "Love Machine".I think its also important to note that the book had a surprisingly likable and positive gay character named Sergio and a sympathetic Trans character, surprising for a book published in the 60's.
Although they dropped the derogatory f-word a few too many times (no doubt, it was more commonly used then), Sergio was a likable and important character.Like I said not as good as Valley of the Dolls but it had a happier ending which helps.
Okay, so I loved THE VALLEY OF THE DOLLS.
It's probably one of my favorite books of all time.
IT almost felt like the book was written by a man (a sexist ,white republican) but it wasn't.However, I loved everything else about it.
The amount of sex and talks about sex surprised me because this book was published in the 50s, 60s, and all other books I've read from that time either completely skip on the subject or barely allude to it.
This book didn't gloss over it.
I thought this book was way to long with the same drama that continued to repeat itself over and over.
By Chapter 24, I was ready for Robin Stone to be written out of the book and was surprised (and not happily surprised, speechless is more the word) by the ending.
I found it hard to get attached to the characters...especially the women who had nothing better to do but to gravel at the foot of an arrogant young man.
I think this could of been a much better story if it was cut in half and had a better plot that was a bit more substantial with any ending that left you satisfied.
