https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23009402-saint-anything
Saint Anything is my first Sarah Dessen book, which may have been a mistake, but all I know is that this book is a perfect example of how to write great, natural dialogue, fleshed-out characters and relationships, and never once make me feel a single emotion.Despite reading praise after praise about Sarah Dessen, I admit I've avoided her work because her stories just do not sound very compelling.
Maybe it's because I've recently read books about people who are starving, discriminated against, consumed by grief, but I found it hard to be worried what would happen to a pretty, wealthy girl with loving parents and good friends.The story begins with Sydney's brother - Peyton - being sent to jail for crippling a boy while drunk-driving.
Still, Mac and Sydney are cute together--Sarah writes the most wonderful everyday conversations about nothing and boys who manage to be appealing despite not doing anything particularly dramatic--and the brother-sister storyline ended well, even if it didn't quite have the tension or emotional impact that I think was intended.
I fell in love with her after those (and after reading everything she's published except for one book that I'm hoarding for a rainy day), and despite my middling feelings on this one, I'll still happily read anything she writes.
This book is gonna make you want to eat piles and piles of pizza and French fries.
It’s been close to five years since I last read a Sarah Dessen book.
Since I know what it’s like to have an older brother who gets into trouble, I connected with Sydney more than I could have hoped to.
While my brother never actually got sentenced for anything, he did do some, pardon my language, stupid things, just like Peyton did.
It’s not just that Sydney lost her brother; she also lost her parents.
I absolutely believe Sarah Dessen has created some unforgettable characters here.
It’s about her gaining confidence, becoming visible again in the eyes of her family and overcoming her fears.
"That’s the thing, though. You always think you want to be noticed. Until you are."  My first ever Sarah Dessen read and I loved it!It's kind of difficult to explain how I feel about this book by just using words. I don't even think I can give justice to this book through this review, because until now I'm still in a state of an emotional high.Saint Anything is INCREDIBLY AMAZING!I've just marked it as a new favorite, because it's hard not to. Sarah Dessen has written something so powerful and
My first ever Sarah Dessen read and I loved it!It's kind of difficult to explain how I feel about this book by just using words.
I don't even think I can give justice to this book through this review, because until now I'm still in a state of an emotional high.Saint Anything is INCREDIBLY AMAZING!I've just marked it as a new favorite, because it's hard not to.
All throughout the book, I felt the calming, comforting feels which is a rare thing that happens to me when reading a book.Everything in Saint Anything is captivating.
i think this is such an asset when it comes to the type of stories she tells, because the simplicity of the writing strips away any distractions and allows the reader to focus on the heart of the story in a very effective way.
i loved being able to read about sydneys ability to adapt to a really trying situation and also how she was able to learn about herself and grow along the way.
im pretty they could easily be swapped out and put in another sarah dessen novel and i wouldnt even be able to tell the difference.
It is simply just telling you a lovely story.
There are more than four hundred pages to the book and that's kind of long for a YA contemporary novel but this didn't feel long at all.
Finally, even though the plot was not designed to be intense as it mainly portrays how a young girl has lived in the shadows of her older brother whether what he did was good or bad, it was still a very absorbing read.It isn’t a perfectly written story.
I think my book was trying to tell me that: it just took me a long time to listen.
I’m listening now.Not being dramatic, I felt like my life as a reader was being totally crushed that day.
So I will wait for Saint Anything in 2015 with bated breath, and I will be reading it as soon as it comes out:Reaction after reading the book:THANK GOODNESS!I was so worried that I was going to hate this.
It's not that I've ever read a bad Sarah Dessen book, it's just that her past two weren't my favorite and I had my concerns.
“There is a weird thing that happens when something goes from a one-time thing to a habit. Like the problem is no longer a temporary houseguest but has actually moved in.” This story started out good, but then it just bombed.I felt really sorry for Sydney in this story. Even though it was her brother who was a drug addict and had nearly killed someone, her mother acted like Sydney was the bad guy, and her brother Peyton was a saint! She didn’t even care that he had nearly killed someone, or tha
Even though it was her brother who was a drug addict and had nearly killed someone, her mother acted like Sydney was the bad guy, and her brother Peyton was a saint!
She didn’t even care that he had nearly killed someone, or that he was in prison, she acted like the whole thing was one big injustice, and she really annoyed me.
The pace was too slow, very little of interest happened, and Sydney’s parent’s actually got worse!
When Sydney got a little bit interested in a certain boy I was just like ‘where did that come from?’.
I totally read this and was so engrossed I missed my stop on the train and had to wait outside in 7-degree temperatures for 10 minutes for the next one back to my stop and pretty much froze my fingers off but it was worth it. That's all I'm gonna say 'cause it's way too early to do a full-on review!
I didn't fall into it and love the characters or even care about them after the book.
I really felt that Sarah lost her grasp on the story as it continued, with extra plots falling in that weren't needed and just to make the characters go through more trials.
I just hated Sydney's parents, but that's another story completely and I don't want to talk about it in this review.
I liked Mac. He was a great character, who was given a personality, unlike Sydney.
Mac was a great character in the fact that he brought light into Sydney's life.
The moment you see Saint Anything on Netgalley:The moment you see it's for US only:I suppose I'll just have to wait like all mere mortals.THIS IS NOT FAIR.*throws tantrum*
This is my first of Sarah Dessen novel,and I've heard so many great things from my friends about this author(especially from my friend PINKY),who also pushed me to read this and finished a lot more of Sarah Dessen.The story is about a 17 year old young lady named Sydney Stanford(who came from a wealthy family),who is anguished with guilt over what his older brother(Peyton),did to a young bicyclist boy who he had severely injured in a drunk-driving accident,who is now on wheel chair.
I genuinely loved this book.
This books took its time, we really developed the characters and then the story just soared.
She was a girl that any of us would relate to and her family's story was unique and will touch a lot of hearts.
Dealing with family members who are incarcerated is an issue I haven't seen tackled in a lot of YA and I found the story so poignant and important.
I LOVED the Cathams and everything they represented.
This story and its characters captivated my heart and I laughed, I cried and I 100% recommend this book!
3.5 Stars
A novel about 'family, self-discovery and change', Saint Anything was a spectacular end to the summer.Sydney feels invisible compared to her accomplished older brother Peyton, even when his rebellious behaviour ends in a tragic accident that leaves a boy in a wheelchair and Peyton with a prison sentence.
As she spends more time with them, Sydney finally begins to explore who she is.Saint Anything may be sold as a contemporary romance story – the slow-building romance between Sydney and Mac is wonderful – but I adored watching Sydney discover who she is outside of her brother's shadow.
High school can be a tumultuous time even without your brother landing himself in prison, but I often felt like I wasn't sure which plotline to care about the most.
Sydney's relationship with her parents?
The fact that Ames was so creepy all the time, and Sydney never once tried to tell her parents?
I also wish the carousel had been in more than one scene, because it was cool, and that cover made me want to read this book in the first place....
I think the Ames storyline could have used its own book.
Same with Layla's boyfriend, and Sydney's obsession with David Ibarra.
Saint Anything is a perfect example of Sarah Dessen’s ability to pen a worthy Young Adult contemporary that’s filled with a great cast and a story that allows for a sense of connection.In this novel, we meet Sydney who has always been overshadowed by her bigger-than-life older brother Peyton.
She places more of an emphasis on friendships, family dynamics and character self-development, which was clearly evident in this book.The light romance between Mac and Sydney was fun to witness because it was so subtle, yet meaningful.
Very heartwarming.Overall Saint Anything was signature of Dessen’s ability create a meaningful story about family and friends.
While the novel offers Dessen's signature soothing detail and trademark spot-on voice, it lacks the emotional pull of her previous works, in particular when compared to stellar reads like The Truth About Forever and Just Listen.Sydney has always felt invisible next to her older brother Peyton.
Expanding Sydney's voice and her growth across the entirety of the book could have made her and the other characters more real, grabbing, and meaningful.Overall, a solid novel about a young woman who starts to find her place after feeling invisible for a long time.
They are wild and spontaneous and they introduce Sydney to a world full of ride and self-discovery.It’s been forever since I’ve read a Sarah Dessen novel.
She wrote one of my favorite contemporary books, Lock and Key. And as expected from Dessen, Saint Anything is a pleasing read.
I like it, but I was underwhelmed with the story.I gravitate towards books that highly focus on family and friendship, but Saint Anything felt like it was trying too hard.
Much like Dessen's past coming-of-age tales, she introduces characters that are flawed and situations that may mimic reality for various readers.
It's got the romance, the friendships, and the self-discovery/growth that we always crave from Dessen's books.Sydney, the protagonist, starts off a little bit shaky.
At first, I was a bit confused as to why it would start this way, in such a choppy and admittedly confusing matter, but then it hit me: Sydney is putting her brother, Peyton, ahead of her because everyone has always looked to him first rather than her.
This whole novel is a bit of a struggle for Sydney as she tries to leave behind the shadow of her brother's large personality.
The dichotomy of Sydney’s family to that of Mac & Layla was reminiscent of that of Sam & Jase in My Life Next Door, and I think that is part of what I loved about them so much.
Ultimately this is Sydney’s story… her story of building friendships, hanging on to the ones that matter and finding new ones that are life changing.
It’s about coming to terms with things in your past and finding the strength to create a future and of course there’s some romance… though that definitely takes a backseat in this story.
This and other reviews can be found on The Psychotic NerdI received an ecopy of this book via First to Read in exchange for an honest review. MY THOUGHTS I've read almost every Sarah Dessen book and this one has to be one of my favorites! It was absolutely beautiful!Sydney has always felt like she was in her older brother's shadow, but for the past few years her brother has been in and out of holding cells and escorted home by officers. Then her brother drives drunk and hits a teenager on a bike
Sydney decides to move to a new school, away from the whispers, and ends up becoming friends with a girl, Layla, whose family works in a pizza shop.
Sydney's parents, especially her mom, become very controlling of Sydney in this book, as if she is her brother.
She's at a school where no one knows her brother's past and she has friends that like hanging out with her.
It's hard for Sydney to have a life like this because of her parents who always seemed like they liked Peyton more, especially now.
Sarah Dessen was my favorite writer when I was in High School & because of this I've been trying to read all her books and to still never miss one.
I highly suggest her books."Peyton, Sydney's charismatic older brother, has always been the star of the family, receiving the lion's share of their parents' attention and—lately—concern.
When Peyton's increasingly reckless behavior culminates in an accident, a drunk driving conviction, and a jail sentence, Sydney is cast adrift, searching for her place in the family and the world.
Here Sydney experiences unquestioning acceptance.
Before I start this review, I just wanted to say that it's funny how I read Maybe Someday before this and both books have the main character named as Sydney.
(That's a good thing by the way!) And it felt so nice to feel like I belonged in the story, it was a very nice ride!
Layla is amazing and I wish I had a friend like her in real life, but sometimes, she gets too caught up in other things and might forget you.
Like the bond between Layla and Sydney, it was nice to see how their friendship developed.
I just loved this book so much I feel like my heart is overflowing.
There was just something about the characters and the writing and the general atmosphere of this book that made me fall in love with it.
I just know that while I read it my chest was brimming with emotions that spilled over and out at the end of the book.
(view spoiler)[There was one scene towards the end between Sydney and a man that meant a lot to me.
The man was sexually assaulting her and she said "no" once then yelled "no", then she aggressively pushed him away.
Actual rating: 3.5 starsNot my favorite Sarah Dessen book but I still liked it. Full review to come.
3.5 stars It started great then all the issues dragged on for too long.
I like how Saint Anything explored these types of friendships and highlighted what it is to be a good friend.While Layla and Mac are from a different walk of life, they make Sydney feel comfortable and are there for her, no matter what.
He’s simply there as a part of Sydney’s growth and character development.Saint Anything is different to Sarah Dessen’s lighter summer romances and represents an honest, poignant story of a jailed sibling and the lasting impact on his family.
But my final reaction when I slapped shut this book was:Because: 1- An unusual pace: fast at times and very slow and dragged the other times.2- An average story: kind of straight forward sans any twists and turns, not really my cup of tea.3- An average description and minimum feels: for instance, when Dessen describes all friends hanging out together, I didn't get any feels.
Mac was a good boy and that's it.
5- Sketchy relationships: Sydney's relationship with her former friends, Jess and Meredith was full of holes, a half package which got in and out of the picture when need be.
"Hey. Sydney." "Yeah?""You had on a shirt with mushrooms on it, and your hair was pulled back. Silver earrings. Pepperoni slice. No lollipop."I just looked at him, confused. Layla was walking toward us now. "The first time you came into Seaside," he said. "You weren't invisible, not to me. Just so you know.”   This is probably one of those rare occasions when I think that a book was a bit too long.I liked the characters,especially Layla and Mac and their amazing mother.The main character is pr
This is probably one of those rare occasions when I think that a book was a bit too long.I liked the characters,especially Layla and Mac and their amazing mother.The main character is pretty great and I really wanted to see if her and her brother will solve their issues and maybe start behaving normally.I liked the music aspect of this book and I really enjoyed reading about Rosie-I simply loved the part where the author describes Rosie's haunting voice.However,Sarah Dessen always does one thing that irritates me - she always writes weird,obsessive,blind-to-their-kids-problems type of parents.Sydney's mother is seriously messed up,even Peyton realizes this.
