https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1440196.Deathworld_Trilogy
I myself, liked him more as a protagonist the further that I read.A few thoughts about each individual novel, plus the included short story, in this omnibus:"Deathworld 1" -- great beginning, so much so that I was sad to see Jason and Kerk leave the planet and head over to the main setting of the plot.
Harrison knows when to fast-forward a plot, and he does so to great effect at the end of the series."The Moth-balled Spaceship" -- This was a fun short story and suggested a potential new direction for the series.

Fun when you're young. Probably does not stand up well if you read it as an adult.
Я в классике фантастики немного профан, поэтому иногда знакомлюсь с тем, что когда-то будоражило умы любителей фантастики. Это приключенческая фантастика про новые опасные миры, на которых судьба забрасывает главного героя (напрашивается сравнение с героем боевика 80-х:)). Написано просто по современным меркам, но интересно и с юмором. Первые два романа цикла более интересные. Отлично заходит после твердой НФ:)
This was my first attempt at reading anything from Harrison, and I absolutely LOVE his clear writing style.
Barbarism is in the Foundation books, but I think that's one area where TELLING is much better than SHOWING, and Asimov does that telling very well.
I just wish Asimov had also been better on the writing-about-women front.
Has he written anything more like what Asimov does, not focusing on barbarism for eons but just touching on things when necessary and moving on to more positive stuff?
I stayed up too late on the strength of the book's beginning and wish Harrison had kept going in that direction with the casino stuff!
Years of working with used books made me familiar with Harrison's Stainless Steel Rat series, novels that i knew instinctively I would not find funny.
Then there was Make Room Make Room, a novel I never read since Charlton Heston had already told me, "Soylent Green is people!"The Deathworld Trilogy was new to me when I looked into Harrison again.
The novel opens with planet-hopping professional gambler Jason dinAlt receiving an offer he can't refuse.
Kerk, resident of Pyrrus aka Deathworld, want dinAlt to turn a 27 million credit bankroll into three billion credits in one night of gambling.
The Deathworld Trilogy is old-school sci-fi writing, with plenty of action, derring-do, hard science and hardscrabble living on alien worlds.
The stories are absorbing, exciting, energetic and lively with robust dialogue, action and settings.
I simply couldn’t find any flaw in these books and was really sorry to have them come to an end.
This is one of the rare SF books that not only entertains but teaches as well, in a manner of very diverse subjects.
What it doesn’t teach, it makes so interesting that the reader is tempted to go out and learn about these subjects in depth.
This is a fun novel (or 3 novels) from the 1950s--one of my favorites from that era.
Fun, but hasn't aged well culturally.
The books get less good with each sequel. I would give the first one five stars, the second one four, and the third three. That averages into four, for what it's worth.
Ok action about very tough humans, though the first book is definitely the best.
The Deathworld TrilogyHarry HarrisonBerkley Publishing Corporation1976 (original copyright - 1960, 1964, 1968)DeathworldIn this first book, Jason, a gambler with a psi advantage is pulled into a plot to raise funds for a mysterious individual and the planet he represents.
The other characters are rather flat and Jason and the author definitely have a pre-women's lib view of females.Book 1 seems to be Harrison's "give peace and environmentalism a chance" soapbox.Deathworld 2Oh, no!
This is Harrison's "The problem with religions" soapbox.Book 3: [Deathworld 3]This third book in the series finds Jason and the Pyrrans on a new world battling a barbarian race for the right to colonize and mine the planet.
Deathworld was written in 1960 and - like myself - is showing its age a little.
The protagonist, Jason Dinalt, is a little on the Flash Gordon side - not surprising given that Harrison at one time wrote FG comics.
But if you can deal with those temporal limitations, you'll find Deathworld a thoroughly entertaining read which still asks questions about human society and conflict that remain unanswered fifty years on.
Deathworld has a very abrupt ending, possibly with the sequel in mind.
Had it reached a fuller resolution, in spite of its cobwebs, I would have given it four stars.
I found it a bit disconcerting that though the title of the second book in the series is "Deathworld 2" it deals with a different planet...
And the fact that the protagonist suddenly obtained additional skills not mentioned in the first.
In the first book he has the psi ability (used to control objects, read the moods, command animals) and he's a successful gambler.
In the second book suddenly he's a technician, he knows a whole bunch about chemistry, about distilling oil and servicing engines, about electrical gadgets (he "invents" radio and telephone among other things), etc.
Third book, apparently there's another planet yet...
I started reading the Deathworld books as a little kid, picking up the original novel at Knack's Drugstore in Bridgman, Michigan while still in elementary school.
By my immature standards it was very sexy and the violence exciting, so I picked up the second one when it became available as well.
By 1968, when the three were bound in one hardcover available through The Science Fiction Bookclub, I ordered it and read the last of the three volumes, no longer anywhere near as impressed as I was previously.Recently I listened to a portion of the original Deathworld on a website which provides books on tape.
The first book is really good classic sf.
A gambler is coerced into helping a planet that needs weapons.
The second and third books are not as good.
In the second, Jason is kidnapped and becomes a slave on a primitive planet, where different tribes keep different aspects of technology as tribal secrets.
Naturally Jason is able to reinvent the technology.
The third is a bit too similar to the second with another primitive planet.
This time he helps out a Genghis Khan type leader.
The female love interest is interesting in the first book but virtually nonexistent in the others.
See my reviews for the individual novels:  Deathworld 1 ,  Deathworld 2 , and  Deathworld 3 . I actually re-read these novels with short breaks between them, and I read them from the recent Benbella hardcover, which includes "The Mothballed Spaceship", a Deathworld short story that Harrison wrote as a memorial to John Campbell, Jr. when Campbell died. (One of my good friends gave me this older edition after he got the Benbella hardcover.)
Kind of an anachronism, but still good.The Deathworld trilogy is three novels/novelettes in one.
The stories revolve around a group of people who colonize a world that really doesn't want them there.
Everything that creeps, crawls or flies attacks the colonists with tooth, claw and stinger.
Even some plants get in on the act.
The others stories are about the efforts of the colonists, who are all strong, rugged people, to find an alternate home.
The anachronism for me was the obvious twentieth century weapons technology in a future involving interstellar travel.
But if you can suspend your disbelief it's still a good read.
Finished this a while ago, just catching up.Any one of these novellas deserves a higher rating than three stars.
They are excellent, classic science fiction.
However, there is both painful repetition (philosophical themes) and a lack of continuity in some character attributes.
Trying not to get into spoiler territory here.Each of the novellas has its own attributes that makes it interesting and fun despite these complaints, and they all have a place in science fiction history.
So, despite the luke-warm rating, I feel like I almost have to recommend them.
The plus side is, even combining all three it's not a long read.

In the interest of fairness and semi- i mean self- transparency, I must and I do confess that before I retourned to reading serious fikshan, such as Middlemarch, I fell from grace almost completely, and wallowed in trash:three novels by Harry Harrison. I still love the first one, having read it probably every few months all through my very young teen years. No 2 and 3 kinda suck. I can only imagine how terrible are the later sequels, the ones he wrote just for the Russian market. (I'm not kidding you, they are not available in English at all).
A great read by one of the classic writers of science fiction. I read Deathworld many years ago as a teenager. I had never read Deathworld 2 and 3 until now. I bought this book at a used bookstore and I am glad I did. Some of the older science fiction from the 60's and before is pretty dated but except for a couple of small things these books have withstood the test of time. I recommend these books to anyone who enjoys Space Opera, action, or military type science fiction.
Lots of fun & adventure, this contains 3 adventures of Jason, a gambler with a touch of psi ability that makes him a very comfortable living at the craps table. In the first story, he meets up with the Pyrann's, humans from possibly the most dangerous planet in the explored universe. In the second, he is kidnapped & winds up playing something similar to the Connecticut Yankee. In the third, he works on a new home for the Pyranns. It's funny, somewhat educational & always interesting.
Was turned on to this through a friend in high school -- kind of a grittier take on the same turf trod by Harrison in "The Stainless Steel Rat" (which is superb). First book is the best; second is more like Robinson Crusoe in space; third is a reworking of the Genghis Khan story. All are buoyed up by the hero's acid humor and some clever situations. First installment also deserves to be filmed, although I wonder if at this point people would make unfair comparisons to "Avatar". Sigh.
Pretty solid old school sci-fi if you are looking for a light read. I really dug some of the more hippie-ish overtones that you don't always see in sci-fi (care for the environment, pitfalls of closed source technology).There are big plot-holes and unanswered questions throughout the three novels, but if you're worried about those you're probably thinking to much. Just sit back and enjoy your anti-hero getting out of increasingly improbable situations.
I thoroughly enjoyed the first book; didn't like the second one much; the third one was okay. I found the unique qualities of the first book were totally lost in the second and third, and I don't understand why he went so far afield from a winning combination of character, plot, and suspense. Too bad.
Just got a copy of the science fiction book club copy of this trilogy. I used to own a copy back when, haven't read it but the one time in the 70s, and so (like many books I used to own) I've just bought a copy to replace the long-lost one in my library. I'll report back in when I finally get to rereading it. I'm sure it'll be somewhat dated, but I recall it as a fun read.
The first book is a fantastic (and fantastically silly) sci-fi adventure. It's pulpy and ridiculous and fun. The second book is a terribly-written polemic defending a ridiculous position. It's full of straw men and boring discussions. It's barely a novel. The third book is totally ok all the way around. I would recommend just reading the first one.
В книге три романа - Неукротимая планета, Специалист по этике, Мир смерти, а также рассказ Линкор в нафталине. Бодрая такая крепкая сай-фай. Главный герой - хитрый, умный, прагматичный и зовется Язоном, что должно начитанным людям намекать. В целом отличный сборник, и не зря на обложке вынесен теглайн "заезды мировой фантастики".
The first book that I read when I started keeping my second book list in April of 1975. The one I read was the Science Fiction Book Club printing of the original hardcover from 1968. Since it is now 2010, I remember liking the three books (Deathworld, Deathworld 2, and Deathworld 3) but that is about all.
