https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/902366.River_of_Fire
This story happened during the glorious days of Awadh and revolved around its cultural and linguistic superiorities.In the end, its a story of Champa Ahmad, Gautam Nilambar, Cyril Ashley, Kamaluddin, Nirmala and so on and this was in the post-colonial India.I didn't find any similarities between these stories accept names used are similar in some stories and you can find some character related similarities such as intellectual and emotional relativeness.Apart from this all the stories are distinct and set up in different time periods.*you may need basic understanding and knowledge of Indian ancient and premodern history to fully comprehend*
One of the best books I’ve ever read by an Indian author!
Sweeping through over two thousand years of Indian history - from the Vedic times to post-independence - Hyder’s novel blurs the lines of religious differences while simultaneously glorifying the millennia of Hindustan’s rich heritage.
Maybe an attempt by the author to wrap up her epic by highlighting what possibly could be her personal experience as she survived this tumultuous phase of Indian history?In all, an extremely ambitious novel that has been rightly compared to GGM’s “One Hundred Years of Solitude” and delivers on the mark!
This theme is carried out throughout the novel by Qurat ul Ain in great depth.The story starts in 400 BC, the age of Chankya, the first Indian philosophical giant the implementations of whom's political and religious philosophy kept the Sub continent united and under control.
Qurat ul Ain Haider emphasis is on the portrayal of such rule from the lenses of the most native people, the subalterns if you will; a theme that is persistent through out the novel.
A novel that evolves in the grey area and does not talk in absolutes is a pretty rare thing in Urdu, and for that Urdu will always be grateful to Qurat ul Ain Haider for that.
I understand the hyphen of the Hinid-Urdu better, and am expecting far more of the likes of Penny Dreadful's Dr. Jekyll portrayals of Victorian times, but I got less of the upper crust and more of the strata I prefer in texts encountered previous to this.
I can't say going out to some of the places mentioned would help my case any, mostly cause I'd likely spend the whole trip crying and be of absolutely no use to anyone or myself.
(In this case, "The Reader" being 'me' informs of one's linguistic horizons.) Personal names, geographical names, religious and cultural and political terms are not written in the Tom Dick Harry and Jane English one might have learned in the Fly=Over States of Middle America.
Rather, this is one of those novels about which Steven Moore once quip'd re: Genji's Tale :: "It wasn't written for you, dear reader."The Times Lit=Sup says of it thusly "To Urdu Fiction what 100 years of solitude is to Hispanic Lit." And who's to argue?
Who of us know nothing about Urdu Lit?
But I do know that if you're going to read something Urdu you could perhaps do much=much less than Hyder's novel.
So it wasn't easy to keep reading for an illiterate guy like me.I didn't stop reading and I gradually I got hold of it when I reached in mid of it.My head kept shivering and my spine felt a wave when I finally finished.I just want to rip my shirt and want to start dirge that I really don't know history where am I standing right now.
I am holding a hammer in my hand and I am imagining how did they feel who left their factories behind to be called Pakistani but they were humiliated here.I think I have right to dream that it will be really called "Country" one day.
"3 it's not you,its me stars"It took me two long months to finish it and I tried,I really did.But I can't recall anything I read.I think I'll try rereading it in a few more years after improving my Urdu.
The body is like a house which is on fire but we keep talking!
I thought the first half did a great job of establishing the characters and much of the history - especially focusing on the Hindu and Buddhist roots, as well as the British occupation - but once it reaches the 20th century it bogged down for me.I'll admit that much of this book - both from a social and historic perspective - went a bit over my head, as mostly all of Indian culture and history is pretty unknown to me, and the book doesn't waste much time with footnotes (there are a handful).
One of the most beautiful books I've ever read. Hope I can some day gather the strength to read it in Urdu.
The historical breadth of this novel is so large that four hundred pages is really not enough to do justice to the generations that populate it: history overwhelms the psychology of the main characters.
This is telling: River of Fire is an enlarging work of literary and cultural history, but more importantly, it is a painful and haunting lyric on dislocation, impermanence and memory.
This is a philosophically enriched novel with few original and extraordinary point of view on the Partition of India and Israel's ideology. It raises many fundamental questions as well. The only minus point of this book is its 'difficulty'. It took a lot of patience and effort to continue reading this piece of Urdu literature. Those who want to read this extra ordinary novel must keep in mind that this novel is going to require a re-read.
Ghaas ki bheeni khushbu,pathron ki khunki aur mitti ki quwat us ne apney talwon ke neeche mehsoos ki. us ne bazoo phela kar hawa ko chua aur aahista aahista dohrana shorow kia: Zameen! teri paharian,barfani pahar aur jangal muskura rahey hain. main teri satah par khara hoon,main magloob nahin hua,mujhe koi gazand nahin puhuncha mujhe zakham nahin lagey. main salim hoon,mujhe koi khatam nahin kar saka(Aag ka dariya se iqtibas)
The religious meditation on renunciation, the medieval Islamic travel narrative, the colonial adventure story, the Lucknowi novel of manners, the novel of betrayed national aspirations, the novel of exiles, etc.
Haider is (correctly) vicious in her characterization of the national movements of South Asia and the people involved with the formal political movements at the time.
It destroys the youthful generation who come of age at that time, the nation states betraying their idealism and turning them into the parents they defied.
That is a blinded view of this wonderful text, that really tells a story of human impermanence in the face of the brutality of time.
"We have all betrayed one another."The story of India's Lost Generations does get a little lost in translation.
The book seems more poignant in light of BJP's win in UP today (March 11) since a large chunk of the book too deals with UP.
The fanatical idealism gives way to melancholic reality and I guess that's where I connect...
we connect with the characters.
Kamal's decision seems brimming with anger but it's also such a poignant insight into how the relentless world envelopes you in its jadedness.
The Pakistan/India debate is no different than the Hindu/Muslim one at times.

I can easily imagine Qurratulain Hyder rejoicing with culmination at having written Aag Ka Darya.
Undoubtedly a masterpiece, now I know why it's often considered as the greatest Urdu novel ever.
Immaculate research, absorbing characters and beautiful Urdu prose are what make Aag Ka Darya the phenomenon it is.
Covering four eras of India's history spread over some two thousand years, the novel plays amazingly along the merciless passing of time.
The flowing river which she uses as an emblem of this is haunting.
They say it right: there's nothing like Aag Ka Darya for sure!
i really wanted to like this book, and i really enjoyed the first segment---but then, maybe because I was always kind of sleepy while reading, I got really confused at the transition from one segment to the next and I had no idea what was going on. So I gave up and went to sleep. And the next night I still didn't understand. so I recommend this for people more alert than myself. maybe if the book had some "for dummies" features, like section breaks announcing massive changes in time and space, that might have helped.
The novel covers two thousand years of Indian history and culture in fictional form. But I am afraid I enjoyed it because my educational background is in history of art and religions of India. It may not be as delightful for a person with no background in this field. However, I feel certain Qurratulain Hyder's original novel, Aag Ka Darya in Urdu would be much more pleasurable and profound.
Definitely good, with good potential, but perhaps I need lighter fare for my commute.
Read it in Urdu language. An epic saga of time's merciless onslaught on mankind.
Does the world feel fleshed out and fully developed?
Much of Hyder’s tracing of the lives of Gautam or Champa feel too obviously narrated.
Outside of Gautam existing to tell me the woes of his empire, outside of Champa telling me the similarities between the Turks and the Persians and how they both inspired Delhi, I do not feel like they think much.
I truly feel closer to the religions of my heritage, I get what Hyder was doing and think as a writer that I would have liked to have done it myself.
Maybe it is the English transcreation (by the author herself) of this highly original and conceptually intriguing Urdu novel that makes the description and the dialog so stodgy (sometimes reminding me of our high school essays), but the vision to cover Indian history from the Gupta period down to Partition through stories of fictional characters witnessing and participating in pivotal events is impressive.
excellent
Nice
very nice book specially for young people
Aag Ka Duriya (River of Fire) is a landmark novel that explores the vast sweep of time and history. It tells a story that moves from the fourth century BC to the post-Independence period in India and Pakistan, pausing at the many crucial epochs of history. Aamer Hussein in The Times Literary Supplement wrote that  'River of Fire'  is to Urdu fiction what 'One Hundred Years of Solitude' is to Hispanic literature.
An Urdu classic and filled with beautiful symbology, but at times it was frustratingly slow and at others it seemed to cut out just as it got good or skip so many pieces that I wasn't able to follow. Close to no character development early on.
That invincibility when you know you control all, you can conquer all. When you read it, it grows on you and long after you are done reading it for the first time, even in your sub conscience, it keeps growing on you layer by layer.....
A great book indeed !! read it about 14 years ago but so want to read it again
Ainee aapa's thoughts reverberate heavily during my village visits. The cusp of urdu and brij bhasha is remarkable.
