https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107772.The_Prize
When Royce finds out that there's no sister Danielle and that he's been had by the cunning Nicholaa, he can't help but appreciate how clever she is and surprises his men by laughing instead of getting furious with her deception.Arrogant that he is, Royce doesn't see Nicholaa's escape as a defeat, as he's sure he'll be able to leave her sanctuary and go with him to meet his King William in London.
As it happens, Royce does get Nicholaa to leave her sanctuary and go with him to London, even though she keeps trying to escape every chance she gets along the way.
Lady Nicolaa is a clever young Saxon woman who tricks Royce into believing that she is at first a nun, then a married woman with a baby.
Of course, Royce and his men are a cut above what the Norman usurper sent before, and they quickly overtake Nicolaa's home and men.
One problem that I had with the way her character is portrayed is that while Nicolaa sure does like to put her foot down and take a hard stance about certain issues, she always seems to cave in and bow to Royce.
What I liked most about this book was Royce's character (he's not one Garwood's prototypical hero) and the relationship between him and the heroine, Nicholla.
He's powerful, driven, and a true leader; but he also possess a strong benevolent side that makes him one of the most charming, endearing, and truly swoon worthy heroes Julie Garwood has created.Royce's and Nicholla's relationship is fabulous.
Both characters are open, honest, and even blunt about their feelings (once they recognized them, of course).
The Prize is a wonderful, feel-good romance you'll be happy to have read.
You can't beat Julie Garwood.
Beauty is in the eye of the beholderAnother awesome Julie Garwood historical romance done and dusted.
I'm loving re-reading/listening to these classics.
In The Prize, we meet the beautiful and feisty Nicholaa and the scarred warrior Royce.
Nicholaa loves her family and will do anything to protect them.
Royce is determined to have a peaceful life...if only Nicholaa would obey his rules.The Prize captivated my attention so much I was in danger of heading out to Woop Woop instead of work.
It's too easy to relax on the train listening to my audio and forget that I actually have a set destination to reach.
I will definitely be listening to more Julie Garwood in the future.
She was either acting like an insecure adolescent, seeking approval and attention, or she was raising hell.
Read enough historical romance novels and you'll begin to wonder if there were any ugly or even just passably good-looking noblewomen in all of medieval England.
This was my fourth historical romance in as many days and without fail, the heroine in each of them could have been sisters, or even identical quadruplets.
If you demand a little more depth for your reading experience, this isn't the book that's going to deliver it for you.
Written October 13, 20143.8 Stars - Safely, securely and precisely what expected. - Sweet charming, well written 'oldish' HRA Ms Garwood historical read (or listening) can not be but heartwaring and enjoying. The Prize a historical from 1991, here narrated by a very professional Anne Flosnik in a 12 hrs audiobook, is no exception.  Perhaps you don't hear or see me sing and dance with joy after this novel, but at least I warm up for some very happy cheer jump step. A sweetie one!*****************
- Sweet charming, well written 'oldish' HRA Ms Garwood historical read (or listening) can not be but heartwaring and enjoying.
A sweetie one!***********************************************************England 1066 in William the Conqueror's court..The lovely Saxon captive Lady Nicholaa was forced to choose a husband from the assembled Norman nobles.She chose Royce, a baron warrior.
Nicholaa is young, cute and charming.
Easily digestible, well-written and very nicely narrated in this audio edition.
Either she's pretty or she isn't.
It will most certainly be more delightful medieval romances written by her in the future.I LIKE - it's good to be there in the romantic 1060:s
[image error]★★★★ (This is a review of the audiobook.) Anne Flosnik reads this classic medieval Julie Garwood tale rather nicely. If she is somewhat “stilted” in areas, she makes up for it in others. By “stilted” I mean where the story is pure narrative she sounds stiff. I also wasn’t crazy over our Norman hero, Baron Royce’s voice; by trying to lower him to a baritone, he comes across sounding “stuffy” and that isn’t the way I heard him in my head (always a difficult – if not impossible – job!)
[image error]★★★★½ (This is a review of the audiobook.) Anne Flosnik reads this classic medieval Julie Garwood tale rather nicely.
By “stilted” I mean where the story is pure narrative she sounds stiff.
I also wasn’t crazy over our Norman hero, Baron Royce’s voice; by trying to lower him to a baritone, he comes across sounding “stuffy” and that isn’t the way I heard him in my head (always a difficult – if not impossible – job!).Call to Arms, by Edmund Blair LeightonNevertheless, Ms. Flosnik does a wonderful job with our Saxon heroine, Lady Nicholaa, and handles the humor and action with the right tone and animation.
She was going to be The Prize for the lucky knight who won the battle for her.
The King was allowing his knights to compete for her hand in marriage.
So the king changed his mind and allowed Nicholaa to choose from any of the single knights.
Of course since she had already spent a week or so with Royce she choose's him because she knew he would not hurt her.
Both Nicolaa and Royce are believable ,lovable characters.If you love a great story with a great H/H then Please please read, you won't be disappointed.
There’s that and the fact that the hero is painfully overbearing and you think he’s going to get the oh so deserved whack upside the head eventually but he never does unfortunately which is a shame because it could have done him a world of good :)Briefly, the story is about Nicolaa (no that’s not a typo there really are two “a”s in her name), a Saxon, who ends up being taken as chattel by Royce, the Norman, in the name of William the Conqueror.
4.75 ‘Captured Legend’ StarsArghhhh, how have I not read this HR brilliancy until now?! *slaps herself in the forehead*What an amazing story! I couldn’t have loved Royce and Nicholaa any more than I did! Had we all the loose ends like Thurston and Clarisse and Hugh tied up better, and of course the ever required Epilogue, it would have been 5+++ Stars. But it was still a SPECTACULAR read that I will no doubt add to my all time fav HR, and forever remember.Julie Garwood did it again. She truly is a Historical Romance genius! <3 <3 <3 <3 <3
Odlično! :)
evet, eski zaman savaşlarına dair pek çok kitap okudum ama hiç kimse (KMM hariç) Garwood kadar bu hödüklük-aşık çizgisini iyi çizemiyor.
ben bu kadar muhteşem bir erkek okumayalı çünkü bayağı uzun oldu, çok iyi karakterler okudum öldüm bittim ama Royce gibi bir erkeğin düşü için bile yaşanır!
Royce Nicholaa'ya başka bir siyah vezir yapıyordu.Nicholaa bütün kesiklerin nereden geldiğini o vakit anladı.
Ama hepsinden daha çok, başka bir şey anladı: Royce onu seviyordu."pisliğin teki, kızın babasının emek ve anı dolu anlarda yaptığı satranç takımından siyah veziri kırıp ateşe atıyor.
3,5 gibi ama inisiyatif kullanmayacak kadar cimriliğim üzerimde bugün.@İlknur a.ka.
iko’cumun yorumu üzerine bu ay okumayı düşündüğüm ama bir türlü karar veremediğim Garwood kitabı oldu Ödül.
Sıkıcı bir çeviri, rezil kapak kısmını işin dışında bırakırsak güzel başladı kitap.Kendisini yeni İngiltere kralına götürmek için gelen üç şövalyeyi eli boş yollamayı başaran Nicholaa, bu sefer Baron Royce ile mücadele etmek zorunda kalıyor.
Normanların ülkelerini istila ettiğini düşünen kızımız canını dişine takıp savaşıyor ancak en sonunda kralın karşısına çıkarılıyor.Kralın şövalyelerinden birine ödül olarak vermek istediği bu güzel kadının Royce’u kandırması, sapanı kullanışı vs eğlenceliydi.
Ama evlilik olayından sonra biraz sıkıldım ben, ne yalan söyleyeyim.
It does not matter how many times I read it, it always brings me to laughter and good mood.
This review is the story from from the pov of the female lead, Nicholaa.
She was spunky, brave and deserves something different.Nicholaa - The Normans and Saxtons are at war, the Normans are winning.
I keep trying to escape but he finds it amusing and is in control, patient at all times.
I keep planning for the same with Royce but all my plans are for nought.
Marriage is like a map, Royce says.
He commands his army, his household & our marriage with ease.
Maybe its time to give Royce the obedient wife he believes he wants...
Fourth re-read. A classic! One of my very favorites! Checkmate!
Aku sukaaaaaaaaaaaaa buku ini..... [image error]relieved after baca buku gak jelas dengan hero gak jelas...kali ini sodara2...Hero nya beneran...heroine nya beneran adorable.... [image error]Once upon a time, waktu jaman tahun 1066 saat perang Saxon dan Norman, Lady Nicolaa ternyata jadi legenda dan kisah nya di ceritakan di seluruh penjuru Inggris...Sehebat apa ya si Lady Nicolaa ini....Yuk kita simak cerita nya... [image error]Lady Nicolaa kecil2 mematikan, dengan ketapel nya yang hebat dia be
[image error]Sampai di London, semuaaaaaaaa prajurit dan ksatria Raja terpana melihat kecantikan Nicolaa, cuma Royce aja yang pura2 cuek (padahal sih hati nya mendamba,dan gak tahan buat meninju orang yang deket2 Nicolaa)....Istri Raja William, tau banget waktu bicara sama Nicolaa kalo Nicolaa jatuh cinta sama Royce, dari reaksi Nicolaa terhadap Royce, trus bisik2 lah si Ratu dan Raja...gak usahlah ksatria itu bertarung, biar aja Nicolaa yang memilih sendiri pengantin nya....
[image error]Hm,bicara soal uhuk2 pasangan ini lumayan hot juga sih hihihihihi.....sampai Lawrence (tangan kanan Royce yg ganteng) tersipu sendiri waktu mereka mau uhuk2 dengan jendela terbuka wkwkkwkwkkwkwSampai di London, ada intrik mematikan yg akhir nya membuat Royce akhir nya mau ngaku kalo dia emang cinta sama Nicolaa dan gak bisa hidup tanpa Nicolaa....unyu sekali nih disini...apalagi Nicola kembali jadi legenda after menyelamatkan nyawa raja....sigh
33 year-old me acknowledges that it is not actually the bee's knees, but it remains divine in its own way.Of all the historical romance authors who rose to prominence in the 1980s, I most prefer Julie Garwood.
While the plot and character development aren't overly, well, developed, resulting in stories that border on simple and saccharine, Garwood injected plenty of humor and adventure and heartfelt emotion to make for a truly enjoyable reading experience.Set during the Norman conquest, this novel charts the love story between Saxon noble Nicholaa and Norman commander Royce.
Unlike many bodice-ripper counterparts, they do not spend 95% of the novel either fighting or having hate-sex.
Royce and Nicholaa were a lovely couple.
Entertaining, endearing and passionate.In The Prize, Nicholaa’s home is invaded by the Normans and she’s captured as a prize to be delivered to King William.
Royce is the king’s loyal subject that is tasked with bringing this headstrong Saxon to the king, which proves to be a series of small battles the entire journey.
Check mate…I loved Royce and Nicholaa’s story!
They were a beautiful couple that had many tender moments, fun dialog and a few small battle of wills that kept things fun and interesting.
This is my first Julie Garwood and if this is how she writes her stories, then I think I would be reading some of her books in the future.The Prize is fluffy book, one that I didn't expect from a medieval novel.
I've always thought that books that are set during the time of William the Conqueror is kinda boorish or stuffy.
Which is wrong because if Julie Garwood'S novel is to be set as an example, then this era is more "loose" than the Victorian era.
Smart, loyal, and when she realizes she loves Royce, decides she will be the kind of wife he keeps lecturing her she should be.
I loved Royce cause he treats Nicholaa with respect throughout the book and realizes how smart his wife is.
I found myself loving Justin as much as Nicholaa and wished that Garwoord had written a sequel telling his story, since there is still the loose end of one of Nicholaa's brothers who is hell-bent on killing William the Conqueror and the rest of the Normans.
But on the week long journey, Nicolaa barely thinks about the fact that she's going to be turned over to a stranger who will have the power of LIFE AND DEATH over her.For a more realistic portrayal of what that would be like, read "Maid of Lorne" by Terri Brisbin.
Because that's what you would feel like if you were ABOUT TO BE RAPED.I'm not saying, "Stop putting rape in historical novels." It's realistic, it's accurate, it has its place no matter how much you, as a reader, rail against it.
But the author just writes it off like every woman in that time period wouldn't care one way or the other.
I liked Nicholaa at first - she was interesting, smart and drew your in - Royce seemed sweet with not too much of a temper, only then they got married.
It seemed like as soon they got hitched, he became a pig and she became plain annoying.
It seemed like every time she got annoyed at Royce he'd pet her a little and all would be well.
And as for Royce, he didn't want a wife and a home, he wanted a soldier he could sleep with!
I really wanted to love this author, because I love reading historical genres, but every book I read by her is basically the same underlying theme and the heroes are not desirable, at all.I know the times were different and the gender roles were different in those centuries, but geeeez can't we challenge the hero just a little???
Judith McNaught basically does the same with her characters, the heroine ends up "bending" so to speak, but McNaught challenges her heroes with a rollercoaster of emotions along the way.
Just really wanted to like this author because of all the great reviews, but once again was disappointed...On to the next.
4.5 starsOh I want my own Royce!!! ♥♥♥This is the best Julie Garwood novel I've read so far. It was a sweet read. Nicholaa and Royce are so sweet and cute together, I was giddy most of the time reading it. However, it seems like the story finished too early that I thought there's a second book or something. I just wish there had been more.
3 to 3.5 stars. I liked it, but nowhere near as much as her Highlander romances. I do think that the sense of any conflict or real excitement was lacking. It's sweet with very low angst if that's what you're in the mood for. Garwood can definitely be good for that. I like to read her when I'm in a negative mood, she can usually make me smile.
The best, delightful medieval romance. I really enjoyed it. I love how the characters developed with so much love.A must read if you want to get the best of Julie Garwood.
I picked this book because I was of a mind to read ‘lighter’ stories after Helen Hollick’s sober Saxon series (The Forever Queen / I Am the Chosen King) and because Norman Conquest, which is the period depicted in this novel, is my current favorite historical theme.
Also, I have never read a Julie Garwood novel before and it intrigued me to find out why many readers seem captivated by her romance stories.The story follows Nicholaa, a young Saxon noblewoman, who is forced to marry one of William the Conqueror’s vassals to secure her fealty to the new sovereign and help restore peace in her lands.
Oh how I loved Julie Garwood when I was 15.
But she had a few books which feature heroines that I have always wanted to strangle.
The story was ok but with Nicholaa as the heroine I was rolling my eyes all the time.
A woman who wants her warrior husband to love her, playing childish games and the author makes these childish attempts into some kind of a great allure.
I couldn't warm up to Nicholaa and Royce was kind of dull too.
The book could have been much better had Garwood written Nicholaa differently.
I have never met a Garwood hero or heroine that I did not like and Royce and Nicholaa from The Prize are no exception!This story has some factual parts to it as it takes place in England in the year 1066 when King William (The Conqueror) and his Norman warriors had invaded England and were suppressing the Saxons in what was called the Norman Conquest.
The King sent his warriors to defeat the rebels and this is where our fictional story begins.Nicholaa had been left to defend her family's home against the Norman invaders.
