https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78427.The_Total_Money_Makeover
Although I agree that most people are better off avoiding credit cards because they can't resist the temptation to abuse them, I like to use cash-back and other rewards cards to pay for the things I'd be purchasing anyway.
I don't think I spend more money simply because I charge purchases rather than dropping cash or using my debit card.
You'll make higher returns by putting this money in mutual funds.Buy a house for 100% down, or if that's absolutely not possible, get a 15-year fixed-rate mortgage.You don't have to wait until retirement to do what you love.
This provided a nice way to share the major concepts of the book with her, while providing a strong reminder for me.As you can imagine, personal finance isn't exactly the most entertaining topic.
His personal story of bankruptcy and how he was able to turn around his finances was inspirational.
Most importantly, they would have to evaluate their attitudes toward money and be willing to make some changes in their behavior.Although I'm not a very religious person, I wasn't bothered by the bible verses that were interspersed throughout the book.
It was neither here nor there for me.All in all, I think that this is a great book.
Buy it, live it! An amazing system that's not a system--just living within one's means. Worth the investment many times over!
I was amazed when I saw how much money is going toward our last debt!
When that debt is gone and we have our 3-6 month savings we'll start it up again.
There is so much peace in being in control of our money and our marriage is so much better because we have GOALS that we plan together.
We've been debt free for the past 10 years.
My husband started his own company--debt free and has never borrowed money for it.
We have paid college tuition, missionary support and cash flowed a wedding.
*Listened to the audio version of this book*
This book is debt-centric, so, if you're in debt, then yes, you really should read this book.However, while focusing on getting out of debt is a crucially important step of freeing up your income (because if the money you make every month is spent every month, you're not financially fit), there are many aspects of your financial self that are not addressed in this book.
And, while Mr. Ramsey would probably tell you that these aspects of your financial self can wait until you're out of debt, I don't think it's wise to procrastinate an awareness of your financial whole.This is not to say that you should rationalize being in debt and/or put off getting out of it; and Mr. Ramsey has a sure-fire way of doing that.
He uses unrealistic examples of people having a mortgage of $50,000, or someone paying $250/month for a small apartment while paying off debt.
We don’t pay for manicures, we cut everybody’s hair in the family, we don’t buy meat, our vacations are mini-vacations within an hour’s drive from our home, we drive 15-year-old cars, and we live in a small condo.Perhaps his most arrogant statement is that “there is no excuse to retire without financial dignity in the United States today.”If you are educated, hard-working, disciplined, and understand how money works, you will waste your money on this book.
You can learn a lot more about money and compassion from Suze Orman than from Dave Ramsey.
Buy a book by Suze Orman instead.
Anyway, I think Ramsey has some great ideas for getting back on the right track with your money.One thing he does say, over and over again, is that it is not hard to follow his plan, but it's very difficult to actually pull it off.
He sets out baby steps for a Total Money Makeover, beginning with scrimping and saving until you have a $1,000 emergency fund (Ramsey notes that things like Christmas are not emergencies: "Christmas is not an emergency; it does not sneak up on you.
This guy's claim is basically that the key to accumulating a lot of money is to (1) become debt free, (2) save a sizeable nest egg (3-10k)for the big emergencies that typically send people into debt in the first place, and (3) put the rest of your savings in mutual funds.
Good advice, but it would help if he offered more insights on how to follow it, especially since he seems to think that even those deeply in debt can achieve steps (1) and (2)in a year or two.
This book is a great step by step plan to help you get control of your finances by walking you through the 7 baby steps.1. Small Emergency Fund of $10002. Pay off all debt except house with debt snowball3. Fully Fund Emergency Fund to 3-6x of living expenses4. Invest 15% of income for retirement5. Fund kids college fund6. Pay off mortgage7. Have fun, give and investDefinitely a must read and the companion website www.mytotalmoneymakeover.com is hands down the best most practical website I've ever seen from making a budget to tracking all your goals to forums and plenty more.
After hearing about Dave Ramsey from a number of people, I decided to pick this up out of curiosity.
Most of his actual advice (pay for things with cash, don't buy what you can't afford, live below your means, start investing for retirement early) consists of things my parents have been telling me since they started giving me an allowance.
I would like to find a book that's more explicit about budgeting and investing, and one that doesn't tell me being in debt is like being fat, or that our government is completely incompetent at every opportunity, or one that doesn't belittle my chosen career path.
But in essence, the plan is like this: 1) stop buying things, sell off everything you don't need, stop using credit cards, etc.2) save up a $1000 emergency fund3) throw all possible cash toward paying off your smallest debt4) once the first debt is paid off, throw all possible cash toward paying off your second smallest debt, and so on until all you have left is your mortgage (if you have one)5) save up a 3-6 month emergency fund6) start a college fund (if you have kids) and pay off your mortgage7) invest, have fun, etc.Oh, and while Ramsey uses some Bible quotes here and there, it's pretty easy to ignore the parts about "God's plan for you" and other religious nonsense, and focus on the financial advice.
This book is so helpful, straightforward, and inspiring.
I have spent my twenties in the misery of consumer debt and student loans.
I am now credit card debt free and am busting up my student loans.
The very first thing you do is to get 1,000 dollars together BEFORE you start tackling your credit cards.
To be free of the unrelenting hundreds of dollars of credit card debt is the best thing that has happened to me in so long.
You gotta buy this book.
This book is an insult to the intelligence of any rational human being who has even the slightest notion of what personal finance is all about. Full of filler, fluff, weak-sauce stories trying to be inspirational. Let me tell you in one sentence what this book took over 200 pages to tell:Take personal responsibility for your finances and start living within your means; you'll be happy and wealthy eventually because of it.Don't read this book!
I listen to his talk radio show every day without fail, and I'm an active member of his subscription website called MyTMMO (http://www.mytotalmoneymakeover.com).My husband and I began working the baby steps in September 2005.
We paid off more than $36,000 and our income jumped up dramatically during that period of time using Ramsey's baby steps.
Dave does something he calls "Debt Free Fridays" where callers who've paid off all their debts can call in and scream.
The show has become a bit famous for it.The principles in Ramsey's book really are simple.
The Total Money Makeover book has helped me go from paycheck-to-paycheck-thinking to wealth-building-thinking.
Once my eyes were opened (I read the book in 2 days) I knew my financial life would never be the same.
Once we saw what "keeping up with the Joneses" does to your greatest wealth building tool (income), we decided that we could cut our life down to "rice & beans" for 2 to 2 1/2 years, clean up the massive mess we had made, and reclaim the nearly $2,000 per month we were paying on debt.
I love Dave Ramsey.
We have been doing the Total Money Makeover since Jan 1 of this year (we started after reading Dave's book "Financial Peace") and we are already seeing plenty of success with our baby steps.
We pay for everything in cash now and if we don't have the cash, we don't buy it.
And best of all, we are in debt reduction mode - we had cut up all the credit cards Jan 1 and now we only see balances getting smaller or eliminated.I highly recommend Dave's book.
Win/Win.When I first started listening to Dave's radio show + podcasts (20years+), I was certainly part of his target audience: someone who was never taught about finance and made bad financial decisions.
When I got to college, credit card companies (they were set up outside the student union and dorms like vultures) quickly taught me more than I wanted to know about finance.
We JUST bought the house - can you imagine what it would have been like without an emergency fund?
*whispers* I stop listening to Dave when I want to spend money.
I won this book as part of a prize from a radio quiz contest.Dave Ramsey is a radio talk show host of The Total Money Makeover. It's on every weekend.This book basically repeats everything he says on his show: Invest your money wisely, stay out of debt, etc. A lot of the advice is just common sense, but some of it is pretty handy.If you like his radio show, you'll like the book. If not, you pay your money and take your chances.
If you like animated religious sermons, Fox News infomercials and make payments on your Lexus with payday loans then this book is for you. I'm still on the hunt for a book that will teach me how to invest.
When we compare "free money" after the snowball debt and you've saved enough to live off of for 3-6 months, he talks about putting 15% of your income into various things to gain wealth including retirement savings plans (that are also different in other countries - so keep that in mind) and saving for your children's college, etc.
Here is the but...But, in most places, with that income average, there is no "free money" and everything is spoken for because of living expenses.
They can get out of debt by a lot of hard work, selling things, etc.
الفكرة من هذه النقطة انه في حال حصل شي مثل الطرد من العمل، فانك تملك مبلغ يجعلك تستمر على نفس نمط حياتك المعتاد لمدة ثلاث او ستة شهور حتى تستطيع ان تحل مشكلتك.
و انا اراه جنون، اتجه دائما لقسط الخمسة عشر سنه7- استثمر الفائض و اعط الاخرينقد تبدو الخطوات جافه، لكن تذكر ان باسفل كل نقطه كم كبير من النصائح و الافكار، قراءة الكتاب شي اساسي لفهم هذه الخطوات، ايضا كثير من النصائح كما ذكرت سابقا تناسب الفرد الامريكي فقط، حاول ان تاخذ الفكره و تبحث عن بديل مشابه لها في بلدك و نظامك المالي
What makes this book so effective and successful is that it lays out a very appealing vision, which motivates the reader to make the dramatic changes necessary to become financially secure.
By the end of the book, you are motivated and energized to do whatever it takes to achieve the vision of wealth described in this book.
My husband & I have come up with a budget & decided to follow Dave Ramsey's 7 step plan to become completely debt free, including our mortgage!
The great thing about this plan is that it is NOT a "Get-Rich-Quick Scheme".
I like the fact that there's a plan for an emergency fund.
You can have a safety net while you are eliminating your debt.
First, you have to change your mind-set.
It does not matter how much debt you are in.
You CAN make the change!
Make a plan & follow it with "gazelle-like intensity".
The book starts off with debunking myths that every individual has with regards to wealth and money usage.
The inclusion of testimonies of those who have used and applied the Total Money Makeover Plan intensifies the appeal of the book and gives one hope that there are similar individuals in life who have gone through a hard time and have been able to overcome those difficult times.A great book that youth, businessmen, and all individuals need to read.
The inclusion of subjects such as financial management would greatly influence students and ensure personal as well as financial success.
Giselle wanted the two of us to listen to this, and I got a few things out of it for sure - but much of it doesn't apply to every situation, regardless of how much the author wants you to think it does. Also the audiobook was kind of hilarious because it's just a guy yelling at you - literally - for 4 hours, haha.
I'm always cautious about books or products which supposedly save you money.
What's the old adage?
"How do you make a lot of money?
Write a book about how to make a lot of money"This book did that annoying thing where it spends the first few chapters telling you how great the system works, but doesn't give the system out until the second half of the book.
I'm not a fan of that particular literary device.Also, I felt like many pages of "success stories" were overkill.
A few would have been great, but there are so many as to make them superfluous.
I didn't read this whole thing. I've read it before. I just read about 1/2 of it and skimmed the rest so I could re-motivate myself in the area of my finances. I didn't read most of the personal stories, but think they're great in helping people to see that Dave Ramsey's plan really works. I like how the "baby steps" are very practical and make the idea of being debt free seem an achievable goal. I'm in!
He also mentions many helpful Biblical passages that talk about money and ends the book with some encouragement to be a generous person once you've saved and been smart with your money.
I liked that he didn't bash being rich and smart and saving up money for the future.
I've read a few books recently that emphasized giving to the point of (what I thought) was detrimental to your future emergency funds, childrens' education, and retirement and even your wills.
This book finds a smart balance and emphasizes being wise, hard-working, thoughtful, and generous.
Ramsey's steps for financial security and wealth building seem common sense, but if it was he wouldn't have a job right?His money makeover comes down to budgeting to the last dollar, having an emergency fund immediately available, and not having any debt payments other than a mortgage.
From there you can save for retirement, invest, etc.Seems obvious but in my opinion it works.
I have practiced budgeting to the dollar and even that step is eye opening in regards to what you value and what you have to work towards.
Definitely a worthwhile read regardless of your financial situation.
