https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/299813.G_
non è particolarmente interessante.Come non lo sono suo padre e sua madre: personaggi abbastanza ordinari che niente hanno da spartire con i protagonisti presenti nelle altre opere narrative di Berger, epici e sovrumani, pur se inseriti negli ultimi gradini della scala sociale.Il passaggio dalla prima alla terza persona è uno stile già presente altrove in Berger: qui assume però caratteristiche diverse, perché l’io è proprio il narratore, lo scrittore John Berger, non il protagonista - si tratta di un parlare in prima persona verboso e prolisso, che si spinge finanche a indirizzarsi direttamente al lettore.
Parts of this are beautifully written, especially the descriptions relating to the early aviators.
G inherits his father's wealth, is seduced by a female relative at 14 and pretty much wanders through life in an amoral way until the redemptive ending when he works for Italy in Trieste in the war.
There are similarities with some stream of consciouness novels and I noted flashes of Proustian description, especially in the descriptions of blackberries and the symbolic way particular blackberries represent all blackberries.
Women find him massively charming and irresisitible and he can do whatever he likes with them and does.
One may interpret one’s feelings differently, the outcome may be different, but the state of feeling and of being is the same.A pre-condition is necessary for a five-year-old boy to fall in love.
He must have lost his parents or, at least, lost any close contact with them, and no foster-parents should have taken their place.
Then he is eligible.Being in love is an elaborate state of anticipation for the continual exchanging of certain kinds of gifts.
The further it goes the more grotesque it turns.The state of being in love was usually short-lived – except in unhappy cases of unrequited love.
Here, for example, is one about blackberries (the fruit, not the phone) and sexual experience--"Why does writing about sexual experience reveal so strikingly what may be a general limitation of literature in relation to aspects of all experience?"In sex, a quality of 'firstness' is felt as continually re-creatable.
The third person and the narrative form are clauses in a contract agreed between writer and reader, on the basis that the two of them can understand the third person more fully than he can understand himself; and this destroys the very terms of the equation."Applied to the central moment of sex, all written nouns denote their objects in such a way that they reject the meaning of the experience to which they are meant to apply.
Wikipedia has very little to say about the book so although there is a bit of chat about it here on GoodReads I presume that it isn’t widely read and nobody feels confident about writing the definitive entry about it for Wikipedia.
The central character is the English-Italian G, and if Berger explained why he doesn’t have a proper name, I missed it.
Following this line of thought I remembered that Giuseppe is an Italian variant of the Hebrew name Joseph (Son of Jacob, the one with the many-coloured coat) because the name means ‘one who enlarges’ – but it all seems a bit tenuous because G is more of a Don Juan than a proper spy.
The instructor of the class asked what book I had.
The style is highly digressive, at times making it as much a collection of essays as a novel.
Indeed the book's relative fall into oblivion becomes easy to understand.
In my view, Berger is able to avoid this by the sheer depth of his commitments, his fidelity to what he sees and understands in the world.
This book is often labeled "postmodern," and not totally without reason given its style; still Berger's preoccupation are more properly seen as modernist.
جي.....جون برجرهذه الرواية لم تُكتب للقاريء المحافظ، الذي يخشى أفكاره، ويخاف التفكير فيها، لم تُكتب 
Cinsellik, siyaset ve en çok da gençlik yanılgıları üstüne çok iyi bir roman.
I suppose that's part of the book's narrator, a wealthy vagabond who starts having his eyes opened by class consciousness.
really sees women as things to sleep with without consequence, and when that gets shoved down your throat repeatedly enough you start to forget that it is just supposed to be the narrator and not see it seeping into the worldview of the book itself.
But I think the so-called experimental style gets in the way of the novel's purpose.
This was one of the easier Booker prize winners to read, despite (or maybe because of) its disjointed style. The protagonist is interesting but I almost feel like the author connects the reader to him much better when he is a child than when he is an adult. There are interesting statements made on relationships, some silly and unnecessary drawings, and set before WWI in Europe.
Berger'den her şey dahil ya da ortaya karışık diyebileceğimiz türde bir roman. Aşk, tutku, siyaset, tarih, çokça alıntı... hepsi bir arada. Bu durum, hikâyenin önüne geçmiş. Ama ben sevdim. Çünkü hikâye basit ama metin keyifli.
So I sent somebody, a writer (a better writer than me, in fact), an email not too long ago about how I was loving this book by John Berger called G. And she wrote back and asked me what I loved about it. So I responded, but this same email also included an attachment of some of my own work, and I felt like I needed to preface my work with, you know, my doubts about whether or not it cohered, arrived, whatever. Anyway: this was the prefatory stuff, about my work:  I do think it does *something* (
So I sent somebody, a writer (a better writer than me, in fact), an email not too long ago about how I was loving this book by John Berger called G.
I do think it does *something* (and that's maybe the best way to say it) -- I'll let you decide if you can figure out what you think that *something* is.
I say all that to set up this, the bulleted list I sent to said better-writer-than-me regarding John Berger's stunning book, G.:Things I Love About G.
Etc....All that said, ultimately it's a novel written by a painter, literally and figuratively.And those are still (and always) the things I love about it.
He comes off more or less as a twat with some grand theory about every little thing who has to stop the action every five seconds to say something like:"In morality there are no mysteries.
A new, profoundly surprising fact cannot be accommodated by morality..."That's in the middle of a scene when the protagonist and a married woman are driving off to have sex for the first time.
And Berger wants to get all semantic about what morality is and isn't.
The fact that most of the book, and thus most of the theorizing, is pretty much about sex makes it even smarmier.
G is a very interesting but somewhat strange novel; well deserving of the Booker it won for beautiful prose and some great paragraphs about relationships - among the best introspective descriptions of people in a romantic and erotic context and not only I've read.The structure in paragraphs linked in a whole as well as the authorial insertion about this or that works well despite the seeming scattering in the beginning.G the main hero is a mystery almost to the end and he is reflected through women and violent events he is mostly a bystander until they engulf himHighly recommendedFBC Rv:INTRODUCTION: Sometime ago I stumbled by chance upon a remark that "G" by John Berger is the strangest book to have won the Man Booker prize (in 1972), not to speak of the author's acceptance speech that became notorious.
He pursues women whom he claims to love (frequently on no stronger a basis than first sight), indifferent to the chaos he causes in their lives.Initially, his tendency to admire in his inamoratas features that might otherwise be unattractive gave the impression that he was drawn to their inner beauties.
It is a paean to his marvelous self-awareness.Perhaps by placing the stories of G.'s love affairs cheek by jowl with the wonders and horrors of the early 20th century Berger intends to make a statement, but I fail to comprehend what it might be.
This has been a hard review to get started on.
And I wrote that sentence only to pause and wonder what else to write.
(Of course, that could be because I'm trying to write my thesis conclusion and that's being difficult as well.
All writing is feeling a little difficult this week.) I'll press on, though, to at least get this done and out.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Berger also sometimes breaks from the story completely to discuss abstract concepts with the reader, such as the appreciation of the female form or the expression of love.
G.’s tale unfolds at unerringly different paces; Berger at times spends pages describing a single afternoon, building up a truly beautiful descriptive picture of a scene, but then spoils it by rushing crucial elements of the story (G.’s death in particular feels like an after-thought that was hurried along in order to meet a publisher’s deadline).
The sweeping historical viewpoint, while at times interesting, has a didactic air about it which gives Berger the feel of a lecturer attempting to impose his views on his readers rather than independently presenting the narrative.
G. isn't the worst of the lot, but it distinguishes itself by being virulently misogynist, pretentious, and overwritten; the whole book feels like Berger making a bunch of super confident, random assertions about things he seems to know nothing about, and in that, it is a stunning example of white male literature / why the 70s literary scene sucked.
For example, take the random section on the Boer War. There's a lot of rambling about Afrikaaners and their particular cultural identity; having lived in South Africa and researched what Berger's talking about, none of what he says is accurate!!
It's never going to be a popular or an easy read, but it was surprisingly enjoyable. Although at first blush it looks extremely European, there are links to a British tradition (Tom Jones, Tristram Shandy, Samuel Pepys).
My review is somewhere in the comments below!
Okay, I get it, every human experience is subjective and impossible to share satisfactorily but did you really have to break the fourth wall every five paragraphs to tell me this? Tedious. It's all so boring. There's so much sex, politics and art in it, but it's still, so, so boring. Obviously the Booker panel in 1972 were easily pleased (either that or having a brother and sister shagging helps swing it - it keeps popping up in winning books).
Littered with interesting ideas and profound statements, but way too dense for a novel. It is essentially a winding, complex, philosophical essay with a loose theme surrounding a young man called G. There are gems buried within, but you've got to work hard to get at them.
DNF. Life's too short to waste time on something this disappointing.
بحزن جدا لما ألاقي عمل حلو، الترجمة تكون ظلماه بشكل لا يغتفر.
Quando cominciarono ad affluire le prime foto, ci rendemmo conto che ci avevamo preso: la teutonica dei cuoricini aveva un delizioso visino lentigginato sotto una frangia biondo-ariana, l’inglese con cui dialogo io sembrava il ritratto di un boiler.Adesso, ogni volta che sento dire “ha una bella scrittura”, riferito ad un autore che fa della forma narrativa il suo forte, mi vien sempre quel pensiero lì.
Non conta che noi si legga un carattere, è per me inevitabile che chi “scrive bene” debba avere anche una bella calligrafia.Ok: se dovessi immaginare John Berger sulla base della sua scrittura, direi che è un incrocio fra Brad Pitt, Keanu Reeves e il fascino brizzolato di Sean Connery.
1972I first read this when reading my way through early Booker winners and admired the language and style without really noticing the undercurrent of satirical humour.
He is something of a libertine as an adult and there is a lot of sex; Berger is one of very few writers who can write about it well and without embarrassment, capturing its mixture of tenderness, yearning, selfishness and animalism.Berger was regarded as one of the 'angry young men' and we can see the anger, but he differs from his peers in that this is not in any way a miserable, dreary or depressing book.Sam Jordison, reviewer for the Guardian, revisited Booker winners back in 2008.
There are very odd little descriptions of sexual goings on throughout the book including a couple of drawings.
For instance this one where Marika is watching G dance with Nusa and sees his erect penis and imagines him on a stick horse:
On this stick he rode towards her, his legs and feet dangling either side.
In bed, seen from above or from the side, a penis looks like an object or a vegetable or a fish.
Its head shifted a little from side to side, as a horse’s head when galloping.
I did not understand chunks of this book at all.
There were sentences and phrases that were sheer brilliance, and I understand it was supposed to post-modernist - i.e. difficult to follow, but I didn't really see why it fulfilled postmodernist criteria (perhaps that is silly thing to say in itself.) The opening part about the protagonists childhood made sense, and then the seduction by a female relative, whilst not really worth writing home about, at least fit with the blurb on the back.
Wasted a good deal of time ploughing through it and now feeling quite stupid that my understanding was so little.

This is a difficult one to review. I liked To the Wedding a lot, and I'm always interested in Booker winners, but having just finished reading this I'm genuinely unsure how I feel about it. On one level a picaresque with a central character loosely based on Don Giovanni, it also covers a broad sweep of European history in the late 19th and early 20th century, largely focused on Italy, and is full of interesting ideas.
