https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2137.A_Home_at_the_End_of_the_World
There is a sadness in his work that fills me with a profound loneliness that I find myself both overwhelmed by and grateful for."A Home at the End of the World" tells the story of Jonathan and Bobby, friends since their childhood in Cleveland.
Clare and Jonathan, in the classic gay-man-straight-woman pact, have already agreed to have a baby together, but Clare and Bobby immediately become lovers and Clare quickly becomes pregnant.
Cunningham manages, beautifully, to shed new light on the old questions: how do we find home and how are we best loved?
3.5
This is the "Less than Zero"ish novel of the popular NYC writer, and just like Bret Easton Ellis' depiction of the derelict children of sunny Cali in the 80's, Cunningham encapsulates the latter 80's in the East Village & early 60's, 70's in the stark midwest) with lost souls and unique individuals.The plot is this: Two guys and a gal play house together because they are (equally?) in love.Obviously there is more to it, as it differs somewhat from the pretty damn good movie with an additional character Erich (he, not Jonathan, gets AIDS!) & a fourth point of view: that of Alice, the pot smoking desperate housewife (later widow).This episodic drama is written carefully, it seems, and it sometimes drifts into insane allusions (see: The Hours) while keeping the normalcy so entertaining to behold.
A million stars. What an amazing book. The writing is incredible - just beautiful, beautiful words. I can’t even be coherent about this thing. One of the very, very few books I’ve read populated by REAL people. READ IT. EVERYONE READ IT.
Directly after I've finished the book: THAT, my friends, is an excellent example of a literary fiction. And it is not easy to rate the books of the genre. They could be everything - from 2 to 5 stars. Well, I have to decide between 4 or 5 in this specific case, but it won't be easier to write a review for it. The reason WHY I love literary fiction-it makes you not only feel, but think, think a lot. Oh, yes, it can even detect our hidden individual talent for philosophy.Now I'll go into my tub t
There is no rules for love, it is genderless and ageless, and timeless.And because all my dear friends wanted to know if there is a HEA:It is a very realistic ending, full of hope and mererly present and at the same it is an open ending - Michael Cunningham trusts his readers to draw the right conclusions about his characters - and this ending is melancholic, poignant and simply BEAUTIFUL.My only complaint, a very tiny one - the multiple first person's POV.
It is this kind of books you NEED to talk about while/after reading it.
It is a kind of book you shouldn't read alone.
This is one of those books that you read a sentence or a paragraph or a scene and it hits you deep down, sometimes in the places where you're most insecure.
Get a *box* of pencils.) There were times when I was sad or upset about something and would read another book instead because I didn't want to feel everything that this one brought up.I'm making this book sound like a big downer.
It's exhilarating, like all the best books, because it tells you what you know is true and then makes you look at it all again.
It wasn't remarkable, but it wasn't awful.It basically follows a set of three friends - one women, two men - and examines their relationships, both with each other, and with people from the outside world (mothers, fathers, girlfriends, boyfriends).It reads almost a little blandly.
But then I couldn't say that it was very successful, because I didn't feel connected to any of the characters.
There's not a lot of joy in this book, so after awhile it feels like the characters are just holding on to each other out of history and obligation.
I kind of want to read The Hours, but this makes me a little wary.
This is the story of Bobby and Jonathan -- best friends, almost brothers, almost in love -- how they grow up together, how they grow apart, how they meet Clare, and how they all try to make a home together.
Cunningham has an easy way with language; his prose is simple and honest, with wonderful spots of color and noise: If Bobby moved with the methodical, slightly bovine will of a vacuum cleaner, sucking up each errand and task, Jonathan clattered along like an eggbeater.
As is this book.Three stars for affecting, sympathetic characters and Cunningham's effortlessly interesting prose.
The first half is especially engaging with the dynamic between the boys and Johnathan's mum, but I will admit it lost be a bit with the introduction of Clare, she never truly felt like a real character to me.I also didn't like the focus one character took towards the end, it felt a bit more like introducing an 'issue' instead of the character feeling organic.Ultimately, while this book seems to sell itself on it's unconventional relationship, to me it was more about a fear of loneliness and them trying to fix that.
Jonathan cerca l’approvazione di un padre che non lo vede, padre che per lui è sicurezza, bellezza e che piano nella sua vita si trasforma con il passare del tempo in paura, quasi orrore perché legato alla malattia, alla morte.Bobby si lascia vivere.
Ha paura di stare solo per quell’abbandono del fratello che mai supera, si attacca come un figlio ad una famiglia che non è la sua, cerca conferme e se ne va in giro per il mondo con gli occhi della meraviglia, silenzioso.
Ed è ai confini del mondo, in quella casa già con una vita, che sembrano trovare la loro pace, la loro dimensione.
This novel reminds me a lot of his most recent novel, The Snow Queen, another story about a trio, quartet if you want to count Alice in this novel, and Liz in the other novel.
It feels like Cunningham uses his novels to work through personal experiences, like maybe there is a Clare/Liz person in his life, maybe he had a Bobby/Tyler brother figure.
It is no wonder that The Snow Queen concerns itself with a young woman dying of cancer, and not the unhappy housewife of earlier novels.
Each of the three characters narrate chapters in the book, with Jonathan's mother Alice (the unhappy housewife) narrating some chapters as well.
The story of a relationship between two childhood friends and a woman who enters their lives in adulthood, A Home at the End of the World is difficult to summarize because its plot is wide, rambling, and only half the point.
Meandering from the childhood deaths that leave Bobby bereft, distant, and desperate for connection, to Jonathan's burgeoning sexuality and his fixation on Bobby, to the entrance of world-weary Clare and the fragile three-way relationship that forms on the basis of the shared love--but disparate sexuality--between them, the book offers constant forward motion but few concrete goals.
They are all a collection of surfaces; Cunningham constantly explains them to us, but does little to justify his explanations, and their supposed virtues just make them cowards.* Also, although it is a novel in alternating first person chapters, none of them have unique voices - they all sound like each other, there are no psychological/verbal idiosyncrasies.
You want something more nuanced and developed from a novel like this - and something more challenging, too.
It sort of gave me second-hand embarrassment.* Like, if you want to read that, Hemingway, Wharton, and Fitzgerald are your go-to writers, right?
Cunningham, bu kitabı Saatler'den 8 yıl önce yazmış.
Dünyanın Sonundaki Ev'de çocukluk arkadaşları olan Bobby ve Jonathan'ın birlikte geçirdikleri zamanlara, ikisinin de belli bir şeylerden ve biraz da birbirlerinden kaçıp sonra New York'ta tekrar bir araya gelmelerine tanık oluyoruz.
Cunningham hikayeyi farklı farklı karakterlerin ağzından anlatıyor; hepsini teker teker tanırken, bir yandan da diğerlerinin gözünden nasıl göründüklerine de şahit oluyoruz.GoodReads'de bu kitaba yorum yazanlardan biri, "okurken satırların altını çiziyorsanız yeni kalemler alın; hatta bir kutu yeni kalem alın" yazmış.
Bu da Cunningham'in kelimeleri ne kadar ustaca kullandığını açıkça gösteriyor diye düşünüyorum.
Cunningham ise Bobby'nin ağabeyinin ölümünün ardından nasıl bir ruh halinde olduğunu bir ceketle gösteriyor bize.
tik skaisti un neparasti, īsti un gaisīgi. par pieaugšanu, sevis meklēšanu un citu atrašanu sevī. par sadzīvošanu un par dzīvi kopumā. esmu sajūsmā par Kaningema rakstības manieri un Brices burvīgo tulkojumu, šādā kombinācijā par dzīves ritējumu varētu lasīt daudz un dikti, neremdināmi. vairāk šeit - http://naktsskapitis.blogspot.com/201...
I want every character in this book to shut the fuck up.
Khi còn là một thiếu nữ hay ngay cả khi đã biết yêu tôi luôn tin rằng trên đời này vẫn tồn tại một thứ tình yêu không tình dục, đó là:  tri kỷ, tâm giao.
Sau khi kết hôn tôi nghĩ rằng thứ tình yêu không tình dục không bao giờ tồn tại, cái gọi là tri kỷ, tâm giao có chăng cũng chỉ là ánh sao vụt qua trong màn đêm bất tận.
Jonathan coi Clare như bạn tâm giao nhưng lại yêu Bobby bằng thứ ty vô cùng dịu dàng, thân thiết hơn cả tình anh em, sự đồng điệu giữa họ khiến ngay cả Clare cũng không thể xen vào.
a me di questo libro è piaciuta solo la colonna sonora. I personaggi girano attorno al loro ombelico, convinti che sia "al centro del mondo", incapaci di crescere, e l'unico con un po' di attenzione verso gli altri, che sa farsi carico del dolore altrui, ovvero Bobby, è guardato con affettuosa sufficienza, come fosse l'adorato cane di casa.
"A Home at the End of the World" was my first Cunningham's book and I can already say that it's not going to be the last one.
The first thing that comes to mind when I think about "A Home at the End of the World" is that it is an awkward book.
Just the opposite, while reading it, I felt thrown into all the complexity of it and in some way it stayed with me even after I finished the book.The book speaks in four different voices and takes the reader through a long period of lives of the four characters.
I wish we could do half stars -- I would like to give this book 2.5 stars to rate it a C.I really wanted to like it more than I did; however, I felt there was not enough internal distinction among the characters to make the shifting viewpoints work. Each person's narrative voice sounded like all the others, resulting in homogenous characters that did not seem sufficiently fleshed out.
Каждый раз при встрече с Каннингемом у меня чувство соприкосновения с чем-то запредельным. Как будто жизнь с ее необъяснимыми словами интимностью и подводными водами одиночества приобретает одновременно и материальную и эфемерную ткань. Такое ощущение, что через океан живет и пишет родственная душа, такая близкая, понятная, давно тебе знакомая и прожившая с тобой большие и важные куски жизни. Это просто невероятно.
It has lots of my favorite things in a novel: New York, suburban malaise, love, the 80s, parenting.
It follows them into their adulthood where they meet the third character, Clare, and fall in love with her.
Each time a chapter started I would think 'oh good this character is really my favorite'.
I loved Alice's chapters near the beginning.
I wish she hadn't, I don't think it was the right thing to do.
Sometimes the intensity of emotion in this book was a bit too full on.
Then again that's actually a really good thing right?
A Home at the End of The World  is a love story.
And then they graduate high school, and what once seemed inseparable, separates.I love novels where I am privileged to see the character grow, both in age and in substance.
The characters in A Home at the End of The World  stay active in the search.
Erich, an afterthought of a character who weasels his way into the novel’s conclusion with unsettled aplomb, searches first for success, and then for the crumbs of a hard-won love.
Searching for our home at the end of the world.
Se dovessi definire questo romanzo con una sola parola, userei inevitabilmente il termine "strano".Strani sono i personaggi, tanto per cominciare: due gay poco convinti ed una donna divorziata che accetta un manage a trois con loro.
Strana è la vicenda, strani sono i ragionamenti dei personaggi, con il loro contraddirsi continuamente, partire, fuggire, tornare, fuggire di nuovo.
Perché, ed è evidente vista la vicenda narrata, puoi pure trovare una strada alternativa da percorrere, una vita vissuta ai confini del mondo e della società, ma non è detto tu riesca ad esserne davvero felice.
I love New York stories, I love the '80s. The plot is captivating, and for someone coming from Eastern Europe, such a story taking place while they grew up, - in a different part of the world, of course - seems pretty unbelievable.
There was something opaque about each of the main trio - Jon, Bobby & Clare.
Bobby, to begin with seems a very observant young person.
As a gay man in 80s America, I can understand how hard it must have been for him, but that's just hindsight on my part - had I been ignorant of the persecution and of the AIDS epidemic, I don't think reading Jonathan would make me understand or sympathize for him.I didn't like Clare at all, but I'm not sure we're at all meant to like her.
She's the third angle in Bobby and Jon's relationship and for all that Jon says that he loves both of them, Clare ultimately is a nonentity.
I think thematically there are some similarities here (stifling suburbia being one), but overall I liked A Home at the End of the World, though I don’t think Cunningham is ever going to be a favorite author of mine.There isn’t a story really but rather the trajectories of four characters who alternately come together and move apart over the space of about 20 years: Alice, the suburban housewife stranded in Cleveland; Jonathan, her gay son who escapes Ohio as soon as he is able; Bobby, Johnathan’s best friend and sometimes lover; and Clare, Johnathan’s best friend/roommate in NYC.
Cunningham steers his book clear of the tawdry turns this type of story could take, but keeps the complicated emotions front and center.There is a break in the book and we flash forward to the early 90s and Jonathan is living in New York with a woman named Clare, the quintessential gay man and kooky straight girl roommate combination.
There's an absolutely heart-breaking moment involving a riding lawnmower that I may never forget.I was nervous at the outset with this book because I tend to be skeptical of tons-of-drugs adolescence stories, and I was suspicious that once the boys got to New York it would rapidly turn into RENT, the novel.
E poi c'è tutto un discorso sullo stile, discorso che nascerà da una specie di deformazione professionale e che non interesserà a nessuno, ma che faccio lo stesso:1) Ogni volta che ci sono più punti di vista e la storia è scritta in prima persona mi viene naturale chiedermi chi/quando/perché/a chi scrive, specie se — come in questo caso — abbiamo ben quattro voci narranti.
Most of the narration is told by two of the main characters, Jonathan Glover and Bobby Morrow, but two additional characters also add their perspective, Jonathan’s mother Alice and a woman named Clare who is introduced about one-third of the way into the book.Jonathan and Bobby meet as thirteen-year olds in suburban Cleveland in the 1970's.
Complicating matters Bobby comes to New York, moves in with Jonathan and Clare and is soon seduced by her.
I’ve learned that the book was adapted into a 2004 film starring Colin Farrell as Bobby, Dallas Roberts as Jonathan, Robin Wright Penn as Clare and Sissy Spacek as Alice.
