https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85866.Tales_of_Nev_r_on
This is where Delany steps in and demonstrates that it is possible to write a metaphysical sword & sorcery book to compete with the classical tales of Robert E Howard or Edgar Rice Burroughs, to rival in imagination the worlds of Fritz Leiber or Jack Vance, to create characters more introspective and analytical than Michael Moorcock.There are five novellas in the first collection, all set in a mythical world of dragons and competing cultures, all with a parallel timeline and recurring characters.
The Tale of Small Sarg  presents a different tribe of so called 'savages' , another look at the definition of civilization, another aspect of the institution of slavery, with the added bonus of the return of Gorgik, who challenges us this time to reflect on sexual emancipation or same-sex couples.
There's a recurring thread in various Delany stories wherein being provincial (geographically, or socio-economically) may limit one's scope of experience, but should never be confused with intelligence.
And so this idea may play into the very form he selected for Neveryon: the genre-provincialism of the barbarian adventure story does not, here, suggest anything simple or intellectually un-developed.
Given the prominence of isolated "primitive" societies in anthropology class, in Delany's hands, barbarian stories seem like a natural setting for extending these ideas.
In its settings and basest aesthetic themes it is Sword & Sorcery, filled with high adventure, barbaric people and their customs.
A recurring theme is mirrors and reflections, which is an apt symbol, as the story itself, though taking place in a fictional world with fictional people, is intended as reflection of our real world modern customs and people.
It is unfortunate that perhaps the format of the story, being sword & sorcery and being philosophy, will turn away readers from both fields.
However, the depth and insight and moral philosophical implications of this work rate as high as any from famous freethinkers, and in that aspect it would receive a 4.5.
The appendix is titled "Some Informal Remarks Towards the Modular Calculus, Part Three," indicating its place as the third entry in another series of Delany's which starts with Trouble on Triton, a science fiction novel that is also (thematically at least, though maybe also through some bending of space and time; I have not read that work so I couldn't say for sure) a preface to the Nevèrÿon tales.
At one point in this book, when the introduction of writing is critiqued, because writing's first uses were to convenience slavery, I thought of a revelatory chapter in The Art of Not Being Governed: An Anarchist History of Upland Southeast Asia, ‘Orality, Writing and Texts’ about why peoples might want to hang onto the freedoms of an oral culture and resist writing.
If you have read any Samuel R. Delany, you know he is a complex dude, and even his simplest stories are complex in some way. Tales of Nevèrÿon is no exception. Largely branded sword-and-sorcery, it’s actually an attempt to deconstruct this subgenre and provide commentary on the relationship between capitalism and slavery. And, for bonus points, if you read closely enough you start to see patterns and echoes from some of his other work, including  Triton  and  Dhalgren .I picked up what appear to
Overall, the stories form a kind of tapestry of tales that provide us with an understanding of Nevèrÿon, its cultures, and the changes underway in this empire.This might be one of those rare situations where briefly looking at each story would genuinely be helpful!“The Tale of Gorgik” is the first and pivotal story, since Gorgik goes on to play important roles in most of the subsequent stories (and, I am given to understand, later books in the series).
I think it’s possible to enjoy Tales of Nevèrÿon on the strength of the stories alone without worrying too much about what Delany is doing here.
I have a love/hate relationship with Delany. He is utterly unappreciated by African-American critics, mainly because he rarely chooses to discuss race explicitly, but his explorations of power and desire are vivid, creative, and insightful. Although I can't seem to digest any of his "cyberpunk" writings, this sword-and-sorcery series Return to Neveryon is my kind of fantasy read. The masters are dark-skinned and the slaves are white (heh) and as the people of Neveryon discover the value of currency, literacy, and sexual freedom, you start to think...hey, Delany may not be writing about some prehistoric past...
I thought this would be a nice light fantasy read, however I was proven wrong from the get go. Delany creates a ancient world that puts one to thinking, and a world that is starting to civilize, money making an appearance over barter, first writings, new inventions and improved inventions, with all this the world is still most brutal. There are Dragons. And women are at the forefront.
Delightful - using the tropes of sword and sorcery fantasy to explore postmodern questions of gender, slavery, economics, and the meaning of power. Chapter epigraphs by Foucault and Derrida, female ships' captains, mysterious bouncing rubber balls, and a slave revolt! I'll definitely be reading the other 3 books in the series.
Beautifully and lovingly written. The stories are really more literary fiction than anything. If you ask me. Great world building detail, but the action was rather slim. Enjoyable if you're in the right kind of mood.
It's pulp fantasy, but overloaded with philosophical weight. Imagine halfway between Conan the Barbarian and Derrida.
The stories are entertaining and thought-provoking on their own, but if you want to get the whole arc, you're signing up for four books and 1300+ pages.
And you'll probably want to take notes to keep track of who's who and what's happened; details from previous stories suddenly become significant in later ones.So it's not light reading, but I expect it'd be really rewarding if you're willing to commit to it.
I've only gotten through the first book so far.
I'm not sure I'm ready to tackle the rest of it yet, but probably someday.
Presumably later entries in the series follow more on that last 20 pages, but either way this first entry shows Delany’s got a pretty enticing set of priorities for a fantasy author.
It’s not just that female characters in all strata of society get the majority of the screentime, or that a woman (from a matriarchal culture that feels pretty genuinely badass if a bit much) is the most competent fighter in the book or even that it favors women’s work over fighting or political intrigue.
On top of everything else it’s a pretty great fuck-you to the sexual politics of previous Sword and Sorcery novels.
What if Franz Fanon and Julia Kristeva had written Conan the Barbarian? You get Sam Delaney's Return to Neveryon. I am not kidding. Read it.
Sword and Sorcery is turned on its head and made into a setting to explore issues of race, sexuality, slavery, economics, and language within the nested narrative that is Nevèrÿon.
This is ponderous despite itself--the philosophical, talky style frequently drowns out the readability of the short fiction format and sword and sorcery genre.
But going in with those expectations--expectations which the framing narrative insists on--also make it a compelling and effective experiment.
I find that I like this more than I enjoy it, because I admire what it does but the reading experience perpetually kept me at a distance.
I seem to read this book about once every fifteen years – the first time being around the age of fifteen, the second sometime in my thirties and the third now.
With this book, it seems to have taken thirty years for me to “grow into” it.
It’s just possible that I’ve finally reached the point where I won’t get much more out of future readings.It is a fantasy set at a time “when the world was young,” in an indeterminate but temperate region of earth with a few relatively new cities and empires beginning to flourish.
A novel in stories and novellas set in a prehistorical world where life is changing from barter and trade to a monetary system, where slavery is a fact of life, but only provincially, where written systems are developing, but reading and writing are still quite rare.These stories deal with power, most clearly, from political to social to sexual to academic.
We follow him from his adolescence to his slavery [which happens, simply, because the great powers of the country change hands--the former ruling house is replaced by a different one] to his freedom [also accidental].The fall and rise of Gorgik shows how power is rarely in our hands and, even when we're unaware of its mysteries, it controls, very strictly, who we are and what we are allowed to become.
Review is for the series: Set in a long ago time in a forgotten kingdom, Delany explores the structures of civilization in this four novel “sword and sorcery” series comprised of eleven interlinking stories surrounding Gorgik the Slave Liberator.
Even when the story creaks and shakes from the weight of Delany’s ideas, it never falls apart and, like a Rube Goldberg machine, its near destruction makes its eventual success all the more fun and awe-inducing.
The second book Neveryóna, a stand-alone novel chronicling the adventures of a young girl named Prym, is the most cohesive and successful of them all.
God. Incredible fantasy that investigates what fantasy actually is, and makes the homoeroticism of sword & sorcery finally explicit, and deals with race, slavery, rebellion, and s/m, and tons of stuff about gender and relation of gender oppression to money, and the relation of general oppression to money, and a bunch of other shit.
And there is more to the series - this collects the first 5 stories and there are other novels and novellas and stuff to follow.
There were passages I had to read repeatedly, both because they were hard but they also were thrilling and dialectical and felt important.
Delany uses the scaffolding of genre fiction to launch a dense and satisfying expedition into language, commerce, sexuality and culture. The stories in this project dance between adventure fiction and philosophical essay, and while that's a very weird and potentially off-putting idea I find myself returning to them again and again.
Loved it. An interesting hermeneutic tale about language, master/slave relationships (in a historical sense, a BDSM sense, and a larger conceptual sense), and memory. Not a traditional fantasy novel, and a fun read.
A promising beginning was sunk by a straight up lecture on gender, political economy and semiotics jammed gracelessly into the text -- I shouldn't feel like I'm studying for an exam when I'm reading a novel.
More a meditation on our current world and it economies and gender politics than "simple" sword and sorcery. Deft and cutting. Delany has an academic style to his prose that appeals to me, though I could see others not finding it so delicious.
...review at a future date...
I was reading this one for my book club, but I was pleasantly surpried. I rarely read a more intelligent book in my life!
Maybe it's because his writing in Tales of Nevèrÿon is less dense than some of the other works I've picked up.
Or maybe it's because Tales of Nevèrÿon is fantasy, and I'm more drawn to fantasy than Delany's usual science fiction.Whatever the case, I'm happy to say that I made it through.
And I enjoyed it...mostly.I love the characters that Delany has created and the way they reappear over time.
What I guess I'm missing is an appreciation for the way that the stories in Tales of Nevèrÿon hang together.
I love ambiguous movie endings, but apparently I don't appreciate them quite so much in novels.

This is functionally really good but I'm also pretty skeptical as to its ultimate goal, which as indicated by all those sparkly Foucault and Derrida quotes, is to illustrate political ideas and messages about gender, capital, and society using a medieval fantasy.
And its not like that's been done before, but there's something about how Samuel Delaney does it where he seems to forget that most of his characters have to be autonomous of that intent that really bothers me.
Delaney just wants Gorgik and Raven to illustrate MESSAGES, and that's both counter-productive to a story and fundamentally bothers me.

The world of Neveryon Delaney builds is a complex, intruguing place that combines varieties of geography with a vast diversity of human conditions – from the capital city of Kolhari which changes before our eyes (and through the eyes of several of its inhabitants), all the way to the Ulvayan islands, themselves the home of at least two distinct tribes of people.
In the shortest of the five tales – and the one perhaps most fraught with portents – master and slave become lovers, and Delaney offers a startling reflection on desire and love.
Delaney here (remember that this reads like a possible history) creates an uncomfortable parallel with contemporary society where the evils of the system (racial injustice or rigid class barriers) are diffused and seem impersonal.
