https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3.Harry_Potter_and_the_Sorcerer_s_Stone
It's a spectacular little romp with funny, courageous, and endearing characters that you can't help but love.It has talking chess pieces, singing hats, a giant three-headed dog named Fluffy, a hilarious giant with a dragon fetish, a master wizard that's just a little bit crazy, mail carrier owls, goblins running a bank, unicorns, centaurs(!), trolls .
And then there's the lead characters: Hermione, the young scholar who starts out prim and up-tight but soon becomes a true friend; Ron, the boy who has little money but who has an abundance of family and loyalty to his friends to make up for it; and then there's Harry, the boy who starts out sleeping in a closet and ends up being a hero.
Jackson in Pulp Fiction: It "ain't the same fuckin' ballpark, it ain't the same league, it ain't even the same fuckin' sport." There was a day when I thought I needed to defend Harry Potter, in the midst of the now dead Twilight craze, and you can see that below in what was my original review.
Original review (circa 2010) A note in regard to the on-going Potter vs Twilight debate: Go ahed, tell me Twilight is better.
Those who think the topic of Harry Potter or Twilight is worth debating and arguing over, are utterly stupid.
Harry Potter, books 1 through 3.
She had heard of the books before, of course, since they were a constant presence on the NYT bestsellers list, but she had always avoided them, thinking of them as children's novels.At the grand age of 14, surely she was too old for a little kid's fantasy novel.
Surely, at 14, Khanh was ready for more mature novels.And that did not include Harry Potter.
Khanh was a teenager, dammit.But the Harry Potter books were new.
And Khanh was tempted.She picked up the first book in the series: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone.The end.Or rather, the beginning.
I'm on page 27. I can already tell this is going to be a big hit someday. Everyone take note of this author. He's going places. Couldn't find him on Twitter, though. Wanted to tell him how great I thought page 23 was.
IT'S HARRY FREAKIN POTTER OF COURSE I LOVE IT*reread in March 2017 (for the first time in like 5 years)(STILL WONDERFUL)
I've FINALLY read a Harry Potter book!!!(Watch my review here): https://youtu.be/oUZ0EMsggSk
Update September 2016: Currently rereading this series again! (I need to sort out my priorities.)I will never ever rate this lower than 5 stars. BEAUTIFUL.
Why the heck did I not read Harry Potter before now...its flipping magical (literally)!
This is a disgrace to all pure bloods. My head looked quite dashing on that strange professor's head.. If only I could have extended my stay. Harry Potter.. This is not over yet.
There are no words to do this book justice.
Damn crazy kids.Also here was a line in Dumbledore's chocolate frog card bio that said AND I QUOTE, "Professor Dumbledore enjoys chamber music and tenpin bowling." HAHAHAHA WHAT EVEN.
NOW I'M IMAGINING HIM BOWLING DRAMATICALLY TO CHAMBER MUSIC.Rowling is the queen forever and always.Re-Read in July 2012GINNY'S FANGIRLING IN THIS BOOK IS JUST TOO GOOD.Also, the Dursleys aren't as bad as people think they are, because after all, they DID pick Harry up at the end of the year rather than just abandoning him.
So THAT'S worth something.mmmm, this book smells so good.
It's good to be back.
Can you hear me screaming?As expected, the illustrations brought this book to a whole new level. I legitimately want to buy another copy, solely to take it apart and frame it. Each page is just bursting with new life. Honestly, how could you  not  love such beautiful images? I just can't get over how much detail is present in these pictures! I think at this point, everyone and their great-great-grandmother has heard of this book.Harry Potter, orphaned before he was one, was sent to live with his
Can you hear me screaming?As expected, the illustrations brought this book to a whole new level.
I think at this point, everyone and their great-great-grandmother has heard of this book.Harry Potter, orphaned before he was one, was sent to live with his Aunt Petunia and Uncle Vernon.
Not only are these full-color, high quality images  but there are so many of them.Often, illustrated books have a picture here or there but not HP.
There's pages and pages of pictures like this - and often the pages without full-sized images will have a small illustrations here and there between the large ones.
***Because I got hate in the comments for OMG swearing in a children's book review (which I get, I guess...), DON'T READ THIS IF YOU ARE UNDER 18.
I FINALLY read my first Harry Potter book...and in the same year as its 20th anniversary no less.But better late than never, no?Annnnd I already ordered the illustrated hardback.
Because nothing says, “I’m a thirty-fucking-five-year-old adult” like asking Daddy for Harry Potter for Christmas.
***I have never read Harry Potter.
I was too busy reading about men in kilts fucking the milkmaid.
And since my friend's 9 year old demanded that I read his copy, I now have the paperback in my possession.
Perfection
Doing a listen of the entire series, Stephen Fry edition.
When I was a kid my Mom would take me to the mall and I would spend tons of time hanging out at Waldenbooks (who here remembers Waldenbooks?) Right when I became legally old enough to work, I went in and submitted my application and a few weeks later I was selling literature to the masses.Why do I tell you this story on this review, you ask?
I remember the display at the front of the store, and selling a few copies, but I didn't realize what it would become.A few years later (early 2000s), I had kinda gotten out of the loop on what was big in books.
Here are three reasons why Harry Potter rocks my socks:1.
A Better WorldOne of the main reasons Harry Potter is so wonderful is because Rowling shows you a boring world; it is the world of reality, dry, boring and ordinary.
2. We’re all a bit like HarryOkay so not many of us are orphans, and not many of us are practically abused in their own homes, but a lot of us feel isolated in the world, a lot of us wish for a fantastic group of friends as a child.
The magicSeems a bit of an obvious point doesn’t it?
And who doesn’t like books on magic?

On my list of reasons why my daughters are the bestest thing to ever happen to me, Number 14,577 is that they gave me, at 41 years old, the perfect excuse to revisit the Harry Potter series.
Inside these pages, you can find the impetus to see the better angels of humanity’s nature, and feel just a little better about the world around you.How is that not worthy of praise?As for Harry himself, he’s just a good kid.
Like I said, I was feeling nostalgic and maybe the gush got a tad away from me.
She is not fond of movies and she still does not show interest on reading Harry Potter.
However, I am now a bookworm and the other week, I was with my 4 Goodreads friends and 3 of them raved (two of them, again) about Harry Potter books.
Are all of those 39 friends of mine in Goodreads wrong in giving this 5 stars?
But I am in Goodreads already so I can make this review long.These are what some of them say: it was a great book i enjoyed reading it For an eloquent reviewer, she must have been too happy to express herself.
❝This boy will be famous. There won't be a child in our world who doesn't know his name.❞ Everyone grew up with Harry Potter. They read all the books when they were young and watched all the films. They would re-watch and re-read them. They would fall in love with the Wizarding World and would completely adore Harry, Ron, and Hermione. They would talk about them non stop, about Hogwarts, about its teachings, about them wanting to become students there and pretending they are, about joining the
But now, as 2016 and having over 500 friends that are caught up and have read the recently published novel, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, I have finally read the first book and am able to continue the series and watch the films.
As for me, I have finally entered it and feel young and new and early to this, because I am new to this all.Other than that, Harry Potter is considered a Children's book but in my opinion, it's in between middle grade and young adult because it can be hard to read for some.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: Despite a weak climax, it’s a delightful read: an excellent introduction to its richly layered, wildly imaginative world.
I'm not going to tell every little thing about the book as most have read it and some that haven't just might take a little peek :-) Let's sum this up to say that Harry gets on the Quidditch team (read to find out what that is), there are trolls with nasty snot, a secret the group are trying to figure out, great times spent with Hagrid, many magical moments and an appearance of sorts by someone that will not be named......I'm going to leave you with some pictures from the book, I had no idea that Jim Kay who is the illustrator is the same man who illustrated, "A Monster Calls," by Patrick Ness and he also has a rescued greyhound like me :-) Yay!
An universe where your worst misfortune is to be a non-magical, a sad "muggle" who will never be able to see the platform nine and three quarters.Let me dream.Vote: 10Lasciatemi sognare.Mentre leggo per la prima volta a mia figlia (6 anni) questo volume, personalmente (37 anni) sono alla terza rilettura di "Harry Potter e la Pietra Filosofale".
«In fin dei conti, per una mente ben organizzata, la morte non è che una nuova, grande avventura» ci dice Silente, il maestro di vita, la figura più carismatica dell'universo creato dalla Rowling.
I don't think I have to tell you guys about how good this book is because most of you have already read it anyway.I haven't written a review so far because I just did not feel the need to put this obvious opinion into words.
But I've just read the illustrated edition by Jim Kay and if it is possible, it makes this book even more outstanding than it already is.
Jim Kay is awesome.
If not, you should definitley reconsider your life choices.I am certainly going to buy an edition of this, it's so pretty I could die.
Yes, I've been living under a rock.
This doesn't really need a review, does it?This series is brilliant and it will live on forever in our hearts and minds.
As wonderful and magical as promised. Because I didn't remember the movie, the third act of the book was a delightful surprise to me.I wish I'd had this book when I was a kid, because the idea that someone could be special without knowing it, and then get to visit a special world where the things that made him different were the same things that made him awesome would have been really inspiring to me.Anne's finishing this, too, and I have to wait for her before I start in on the second book ... HURRY UP ANNE!
