https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36840397-a-place-for-us
July 2, 2018: I am so excited about this: I did an interview with the lovely Fatima on my blog! We talked about A Place for Us, working with Sarah Jessica Parker, and favourite books! She could hold in her heart a belief in Islam as well as the unwavering belief that every human had the right to choose who they loved, and how, and that belief was in exact accordance with her faith: that it is the individual's right to choose, and the individual's duty to empathize with one another. Do you love t
We talked about A Place for Us, working with Sarah Jessica Parker, and favourite books!
This book tells a similar story, yet the divisions exist within one single family instead of between two.
As this family is drawn in detail, we are also taken through experiences relating to 9/11, forbidden love, and the loss of a close friend whose death affects them all.Ultimately, A Place for Us is about what it means to be both American and Muslim; it is about the clash of religious and cultural tradition with modern ideas and the right to choose.
It isn’t often that a book manages to tiptoe quietly into my life and steal a piece of my heart as effortlessly as this enthralling beauty. Thought-provoking, insightful and rife with stunning passages, A Place for Us is much  more  than just a novel to spend a few days with—it's one to appreciate, grow from and reflect back on.Within the first few pages it’s clear, Fatima Farheen Mirza’s writing is something special—there's a distinct beauty to her storytelling. From the intriguing opening, to
More than just words on a page, this is a living, breathing, body of work that allows the reader to feel each and every possibility, loving connection, heartbreak and misunderstanding.The story opens with Amar, returning to his family after a three-year estrangement, to partake in his eldest sister, Hadia’s wedding.
At times, the number of rules—especially those imposed on women—are a bit stifling, but there’s an undeniable beauty to some of the customs and rich culture Rafiq and Layla try so hard to instill in their children, things they were once taught by their own parents.
It is with tremendous excitement that I’m sharing Fatima Farheen Mirza’s novel, A Place for Us, the first book on the SJP for Hogarth list. When we first conceived of this imprint, and imagined the kinds of books we wanted to publish, I went back to my own bookshelves—to books I loved, books that expanded my horizons, and opened me up to other worlds. In A Place for Us, I found all this and more: an exquisitely tender-hearted story of a Muslim Indian American family caught between cultures, and a deeply moving story of identity and belonging.
*All the stars, and the beautiful moon that follows each of us, always*Symbolic, realistic-storytelling at its finest! A colorful masterpiece and truly a story to savor, A PLACE FOR US uses a soothing voice to deliver a powerful message that will hug the hearts and hold the hands of its readers! This author lets us know quite distinctly that we are not just readers; we are powerful beings capable of changing the world by altering the way we think. By making an effort to view life through the eye
Every single moment in this story is made to materialize before your eyes through writing so profound and poetic it will cause you to pause in tiny moments of silence just to fully absorb the enormous weight of a single delicate sentence.We not only witness the struggles of this beautiful Indian-American Muslim family, but we are invited to step inside their minds, embody their pain, cry through their failures, and rejoice within their triumphs.
I found myself in tears more times than I can count, from being so utterly moved, and so humbly inspired.Being a character-driven story at heart, I feel compelled to introduce you to this family, because there is nothing better than characters so well-constructed they end up feeling like friends.
I looked for any excuse to get away from the book.(I know, it’s cheating to put that snarky last item on the list, but I can’t help it.)Complaint Board-I want noise!
A big crime, since it led to prolonged torture, was that this book was WAY too long, like a hundred pages too long.
And as the end was approaching (oh baby let me be done with this book!), the pages became more and more full of religion.
I can’t say what I wanted and expected to happen because I don’t want to give spoilers, but I can say that it was drama I was craving.
This story is just as gorgeous and beautiful as that cover!A PLACE FOR US by FATIMA FARHEEN MIRZA was an absolutely fantastic, powerful, thought-provoking, moving, and heartfelt novel that has affected me in ways that no other novel has ever done before.
FATIMA FARHEEN MIRZA delivers a steady-paced, fascinating and beautifully written story here with interesting, compelling, realistic and believable characters that I absolutely fell in love with.
This book has the power to change the way we think and feel and has reminded me of all the reasons of why I love to read!
This is a story of an Indian Muslim family living in California, and of course, it is in so many ways about cultural traditions, religious beliefs, but at its core it is a story of a family, how much they love each other, how they make mistakes and hurt each other, how deeply they feel sorrow and regret for things they do and say, sometimes too late.
The narrative that perhaps struck me the most, the deepest was that of Rafiq, the father who we come to know in the last part of the book.
whose review made me know I had to read this book.
Every word read, causing an emotional chill and creating a sensation that coursed through me, making my heart all a flutter.
“A Place For Us” is a novel about a family of five: Rafiq, Layla, Hadia, Huda and Amar, all of whom struggle to be true to themselves, while trying to remain faithful to each other, their religion and their traditions as Muslim Americans.
I am there, scared straight, watching, waiting, all eyes on Amar.Fatima Farheen Mizra created characters who I felt a complete and utter kinship with, almost a “oneness” with when reading this.
Trying to carvea path between cultural and religious beliefs and the lessening of this expectation to fit with the place they now find themselves.
It is full of anguish and remorse, and we clearly see for the first time what this Muslim, husband, father has gone through, from his own childhood to the way he tried to instill family values and religious beliefs in his children.
I wasn't ready to leave them at books end, and I believe if you read, or at least I hope, that you will see some of the same values, if not the religious beliefs, that we try to instill in our own families.
We get to know the characters well and are drawn into their inner most emotional lives — ( really personal storytelling), allowing for us - the reader to better understand them as individuals- and as a family - with all their many trials and tribulations.
I didn’t think it was an accident that author Fatima Farheen Mirza lives in California and places much of this story in California.
We have hints of this strained father/son relationship at the start of the novel when Amar returns home for his sisters, Hadia’s wedding, having not seen his family in 3 years.
I knew my review wouldn’t do this book justice but here it is:Like coming home.Like a long, slow hug.Like a song that you can’t get out of your head.A Place For Us by Fatima Farheen Mirza is one of the most extraordinary, thought provoking pieces of literature I have read in a very long time and I cannot recommend it highly enough.
But this could be the story of any family, which is what affected me so deeply - the daily struggles, attempting to do what you think is best for yourself and your children - and how these decisions can affect your family dynamic forever.
What unfolds is a gentle layering of time, past and present over decades, told in the voices of the family; all culminating in an honest portrait of this complex and loving family, with each member searching for belonging, or “place.” A Place for Us was a book to read slowly and savor.
Thank you to the Traveling Sisters for this unforgettable group read, to Fatima Farheen Mirza for writing this treasure, Sarah Jessica Parker for selecting this book, Crown/SJP for Hogarth and Goodreads for sending us the physical copies for our group read, and to Netgalley.
we have read and love many books together, but this was hands-down the best discussion we have ever had...
each of these amazing ladies brought their own life experiences to the discussion and it touched each and every one of us in an unique and special way....
creating an amazing story....
A story that was above all else about love....The family in this book faced challenges that many families do, some a little more challenging because of their strict religious beliefs...
4.5 stars, rounded up.Poignant, warm, and thought-provoking,  A Place for Us  is a tremendously self-assured look at an American Muslim family, and the obligations and tangles that family and religion create.Family and friends of Rafiq and Layla gather for the wedding of their oldest daughter, Hadia, who has broken tradition by marrying for love and not marrying a match arranged by her parents.Hadia has always been headstrong, but she has made her parents proud by becoming a doctor, again, not a
is a tremendously self-assured look at an American Muslim family, and the obligations and tangles that family and religion create.Family and friends of Rafiq and Layla gather for the wedding of their oldest daughter, Hadia, who has broken tradition by marrying for love and not marrying a match arranged by her parents.Hadia has always been headstrong, but she has made her parents proud by becoming a doctor, again, not a choice usually made by Muslim daughters.
The book also moves beyond the wedding, looking at the aftereffects of events that happened that night.The majority of the book alternates the narration between Layla, Hadia, and Amar, while later chapters are also narrated by Rafiq.
I love how Sarah Jessica Parker described the writing on the very first page of the book, "Told with a delicacy as though every sentence is spun from glass.
It did have some suspense, that kept me turning the pages, to find out what happened to Amar.I loved this beautiful emotional book that really moved me.
It deals with the pleasures and pains of family life including love, faith, betrayal and forgiveness.I think this book will move you as well as it moved me.
This was a Traveling Sister read and I think it moved all of us.
I used the wrong words.
I acted the wrong ways.
I will wait, until you are ready.
I will always wait for you...What a wonderful, still, thoughtful and at the same time emotional read this was....
Absolutely at loss for words actually.
What a great read.
I have to say, halfway through I did think the story was a bit long in the sense that an edit could have been necessary, but especially the last part, where the father contemplates and looks back at his life and his family, the conflicts and the love, that really hit me in the heart.
Wonderful read, totally deserves a full 5 stars, highlight of my 2018 reading year.
Five superb stars⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐A powerful debut novel that explores the complicated relationship of a traditional family existing in a modern world.Tradition. Respect. Strong words that run deep. Words not only meant to guide ones’ life, but in many ways define it.Some stay within the tight circle of what they hold to be true. Others, rebellious and curious, seek the lure of the unknown. Would it be possible to find the joy and happiness everyone seeks somewhere in the middle? To be sure, a delicate line
Five superb stars⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️A powerful debut novel that explores the complicated relationship of a traditional family existing in a modern world.Tradition.
Words not only meant to guide ones’ life, but in many ways define it.Some stay within the tight circle of what they hold to be true.
The very human desire to stay true to who you are without losing your self.Hadia and her 2 siblings have grown up in a traditional Muslim family in a modern American culture.
The discussions showed how this book can touch every reader in a different way.
And Amar is sensitive and stubborn, but kind and good to all people despite his struggles with his faith and his role in the family and community.The way this book is written is so beautiful, not only in the words chosen, but in how the story is constructed.
This is a book filled with beautiful, breathtaking, heartbreaking, uplifting love.I read this book with a group of my Traveling Sisters.
I loved reading this book and discussing it with my Sisters so much.
I also want to thank the Traveling Sisters, and especially Brenda and Norma, for the opportunity to have such a wonderful reading experience and discussion.
my review cannot do this book justice in how powerful and beautiful this piece of literature truly is but I will try!
Fatima Farheen Mirza's debut explores an inspiring masterpiece about love, identity, culture, and a sense of belonging.
Fatima's writing is absolutely flawless....
This novel is an intimate character driven story at it's finest that will leave you falling in love over and over again with this Indian- American Muslim family.
I absolutely LOVED this family.This story is told from alternate perspectives of Amar, Hadia, and Layla.
(view spoiler)[Then I realized what it was: I wanted to know what had happened to Amar, in many ways the most complex character in the novel.
Nor could he forgive himself for giving action to the hatred he had felt for his father, wanting to hurt him the way he had been hurt by him.There were moments here where Mirza truly brought these characters into focus even from a Western standpoint, painting them at the time of 9/11—their reaction to it and the fear they carried with them not at all unlike our own.
”There's a place for us, Somewhere a place for us. Peace and quiet and open air Wait for us Somewhere. “There's a time for us, Some day a time for us, Time together with time to spare, Time to look, time to care, Someday! Somewhere. We'll find a new way of living, We'll find a way of forgiving Somewhere.” -- Somewhere (A Place For Us) - West Side Story, by Leonard Bernstein; lyrics by Stephen Sondheim A Muslim family struggles to maintain their religion, traditions and values, all the while hopi
We'll find a new way of living, We'll find a way of forgiving Somewhere.”	-- Somewhere (A Place For Us) - West Side Story, by Leonard Bernstein; lyrics by Stephen Sondheim A Muslim family struggles to maintain their religion, traditions and values, all the while hoping for acceptance in modern-day America.
Living in California, Rafiq his wife, Layla, and their children, who are no longer children as this story begins - Hadia, Huda and Amar - and a wedding is imminent.
A day of celebration, a joining together of Hadia and Tariq, while family and friends gather, witnessing, all in the name of love.
Fatima Farheen Mirza took us on an emotional journey like we have never experienced before and we really wished we could have been lost in a coulee for real reading this together and hiding from the demands of life to solely focus on this read and reading experience.
Through this journey, we experienced so many emotions as we read and discussed this story together.
So much emotional depth to this one and we dug deep into the layers and really took our time discussing this story.
The eldest daughter, Hadia, is getting married which brings the family back together under one roof after being apart for the last few years.
She writes with such maturity, elegance and beauty that the words have no choice but to lift off the page and work their way deep into your heart.These characters are real.
Each and every character came to life for me – they stirred up my emotions and had me enthralled in this heart wrenching story.
Thank you to all my lovely Traveling Sisters who participated in this discussion, largely enhancing my reading enjoyment!
It’s been a long time since a book affected me this deeply.Although an Indian Muslim family is at its center, there’s such a universality to Mizra’s writing that each reader will find it relatable in some way.
The author explores all of these themes with a tenderness and compassion that is extraordinary.This debut of 26-year-old Mirza is the first book from Sarah Jessica Parker's imprint at Hogarth.
I can’t wait to see what the author and the imprint publishes next.*I read this book with the Traveling Sisters group, and it inspired deep discussions.
I may bump this up to 5 stars (but I like to sit with it a while first). This is one of the best, most emotionally resonant books I've read in a while. Complex, wistful, melancholy.
A Place For Us is a first novel for Fatima Farheen Mirza, and a first literary work acquired by Sarah Jessica Parker as editorial director for SJP for Hogarth.This is the story of a Muslim Indian American family, and their community, living in California.
The novel goes back and forth in time through the years of the children’s growing to adulthood.The author did such a great job of of exploring the issues of love and loss, familial and cultural expectations, honor, betrayal, faith and tradition...
I loved this family and will be thinking about them for quite some time, I’m sure.Thank you to NetGalley, SJP for Hogarth, and especially to Fatima for a beautiful first novel!!!
A wedding reunites a family together after 3 years. The past is relived through each family member. The struggles they have had adapting and growing up in America and hanging onto their indian heritage, culture and religion.A son, Amar, returns after a 3 year absence that has created much pain for every family member. Coping with individual losses, this is a story of compassion; Of hurt; of love. Many misunderstandings and miscommunications creating a life of regrets.This will squeeze and twist your heart.5⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
She is gifted in making you feel the characters’ emotions from their own viewpoint and from other perspectives, gradually revealing different aspects without retelling the story.A Place For Us begins at Hadia’s wedding in California.
We see how an Indian Muslim family might feel conflicted with the parent’s family traditions of faith from prior generations, and the current American culture they are accustomed to where their children have grown up and are a part of.This wonderful Indian, Muslim American family in many ways is like any other family, lots of love, sibling rivalry and parental discipline, yet they follow strict religious rules and traditions which at times complicate their relationships with each other and others.
Due to traditional expectations, each family member feels personal conflict as they strive for social acceptance, grapple with religious beliefs and search for individual happiness.
The characters are complex and well-developed, and I could relate to each of them at different points of the story.The author did an excellent job at drawing you in from the start.
The novel opens up with a richly-depicted wedding.
After years of being estranged from his family, Amar has returned to attend his sister's wedding.
From then on, the author takes us on a journey from present to past and back to the present.
We learn and grow with the characters, there were intricate descriptions about the dynamics, foods, customs, Urdu words, and much more.Overall, a wonderful, rich story.
Children are not born with a manual and parenting is something we all figure out as we go along.
Are we to blame for our children's mistakes ?
I found the first half of the book really strong and engaging but the second half became repetive and drawn out and by the end I was glad to finish this one.Some readers enjoy a family saga and may well love this book as it is well written, characters real and interesting but I just couldn't give it any more than three stars as it just didnt pack any real punch for me.
