https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/338798.Ulysses
5 stars because it's a work of genius, so everyone says.4 stars because it has so many deep literary and classical references that to say one understood the book, is like saying one is very well educated.3 stars because the words, strung together in a stream-of-consciousness mellifluous, onomatopoeic way, read just beautifully.2 stars because it was boring as hell.
It got wet when I dropped it in the bath and the pages stuck together when I dried it out.
Life is too short to read Ulysses.
I Can't do it, It fell in my toilet and didn't dry well, and I'm accepting it as an act of god. I decided against burning it, and just threw it out.Yes, I am a horrible person.
Each chapter is rated out of ten for difficulty, obscenity, general mindblowing brilliance and beauty of language.Note : if you're after my short course bluffer's guide to ulysses, here it is :http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...But now...
Difficulty : 5 (now we are getting used to the S of C and Bloom's S is so much easier than Stephen's S - although also a great deal less lovely) General mindblowing brilliance : 5 Obscenity : 8 Beauty of language : 3 We jump back to breakfast time and enter the house and mind of Leopold Bloom who's rustling up some breakfast for himself and his dear lady wife.
As Leopold Bloom goes through this day in Dublin, all kinds of things are happening all around him and it is a virtual reality experience in four dimensions - ending with for me one of the most beautiful chapters ever written, the stream of conscious dialog of Bloom's wife posing as Ulysses' Penelope.
If you put forward one personal challenge for a great summer read, make it Ulysses!I was recently in Dublin and spent a good 30 cold minutes with a strong wind on the turret where Buck Mulligan has his shave in Chapter 1 - amazing!
Sometimes reading a Great Work of Literature is like drinking fine French wine, say an aged Burgundy or Mersault.
You're not enjoying it.But then you read the label more closely and realize that although it tastes just like a fine burgundy your wine was made in the Abarca Hills of Chile.
Por mi parte, traté de informarme de qué manera estaba estructurado, es decir, de que se compone de tres partes (Telemaquía, Odisea y Nostos) que a su vez contienen dieciocho capítulos y que todos ellos tienen una relación directa con La Odisea de Homero, libro que le agradezco a Zeus de todo corazón haber leído para poder orientarme a los largo de las casi setecientas páginas que componen este ladrillo literario.Era fundamental saber que Leopoldo Bloom y Ulises realizan sus viajes odiseicos de manera similar con la diferencia que todo lo que sucede en Ulises pasa en sólo un día en la vida de Leopoldo Bloom (Ulises), Stephen Dedalus (Telémaco) y Molly Bloom (Penélope).
I have left this book unrated because I simply cannot rate it. I cannot review it either or try to criticise it. Instead, I’ve decided to share my experience with something I cannot define. But first, here’s what James Joyce had to say about it:  'I’ve put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant, and that’s the only way of insuring one’s immortality.’ The accuracy of this statement balances out the sheer arrogance of Joyce’s as
But after a while the ideas started to contradict each other and fade out of the narrative only to randomly pop up again and vanish.Here’s three quotes I pulled out from the beginning though: “Old England is dying…….” “And what is death she asked…..” “In a dream she had come to him after death…..”Death, and its shadow, seemed to haunt the early part of the writing.
Not lost as engrossed, but lost in the sense that I had no idea where the hell I was in this labyrinth of writing and that’s before I lost my page.
I made the mistake of inviting Joyce - via Ulysses - to join my literary conversation.
Every once in a while he'd quote - or try to ridicule - something he'd read somewhere, but that's not really conversation is it?
I can write at least as well as James Joyce.Reading Ulysses is something akin to reading a very long list of spelling words...many of them without spaces between them.
The second form - epitomized by James Joyce and William Faulkner - involves the mere stringing together of unrelated words perhaps with the intention of revealing the depth of the psychosis of their characters.
Combining the heavy use of cryptic and dated allusions, obfuscating narration, an enviable vocabulary and pages of dense prose to decipher, Joyce intentionally set out to create a literary odyssey of words to conquer saying ‘I’ve put in so many enigmas and puzzles that it will keep the professors busy for centuries arguing over what I meant, and that’s the only way of ensuring one’s immortality.’ Readers should be warned this is a tough novel.
"Now, how many understood what you read?" The crowd laughed and half as many hands stayed up and I realized my extended arm wavered some too.I have looked at Ulysses over the years like it was a high and formidable mountain to climb.
Ulysses was long and in stream of consciousness prose.And so the years went by and I could not bring myself to begin the climb, did not feel up to sloshing through the swamp of adjectives and relentless narration.When I did finally begin, I was pleasantly surprised.
Yes, Ulysses is a radical departure from the traditional novels of the past.
Yes, but Ulysses is a novel that deserves being gushed over.Friends on Goodreads have mentioned to me that they hope I will explain Ulysses to them with my review.
I doubt that few people understand and comprehend Ulysses, and that's exactly what James Joyce wanted.
I believe this final chapter, Molly Bloom's Soliloquy to be the single greatest piece of writing I have ever encoutered.
Molly's soliloquy ties all of Ulysses together.
In the end, it is actually Molly's voice that is the most powerful in the pages of Ulysses.
we revel in our snobbery and gloat about having read 'gravity's rainbow' and 'ulysses' start to finish.well, i may be in the minority when i say i didn't care for this book at all.
i'm hesitant to say that anyone who gives this book 'five stars' does so because 'ulysses' carries such a cachet amongt the academic elite and intelligentsia, but i think most of them probably do.
if you do decide to read it, definitely get a copy with judge john m.
it's the standard by which all judicial opinions should be judged [no pun intended!].maybe you'll read 'ulysses,' maybe you won't.
I did it. I finished it. And it was everything everyone said it would be: difficult, infuriating, brilliant, insane, genius, painful, etc. You get the idea, I'm sure. I can't even rate it. How do you rate a book that left you wide-eyed with awe at the author's brilliance, yet simultaneously made you want to bring him back to life just so you could kill him?
But by ‘novel’, I don’t mean experimental in an obscure or inaccessible way, as its reputation seems to imply: I found Flan O’Brian’s At Swim Two Birds quite difficult to follow in a way that Ulysses is definitely not and I’m finding Beckett’s Molloy, which I’m currently reading, much more difficult to get involved with; Ulysses was pure pleasure in comparison.
When I bought my copy some fifteen years ago, I read about a third of it with great pleasure but as I had young children at the time and limited free moments, I had to give up when the reading experience became more challenging.
If you prefer exciting, stimulating, rewarding reading experiences, Ulysses is definitely for you.
Reading this so late, so long after its lessons have been absorbed and modified and abandoned and resurrected (see Will Self's Umbrella), I can't imagine what it was like for a first-time reader in 1922-23.
Not sure if this is a pattern yet, but so far Joyce seems to alternate chapters of rich allusion (Stephen Dedalus and others discussing Hamlet at National Library in the Scylla and Charibdis chapter) with chapters of pretty straightforward action (Conmee, Bloom's peripatetic progress).
The Wandering Rocks chapter is Ulysses's center where Joyce parades virtually his entire cast past the reader as the Governor makes what smacks as a triumphal progress through Dublin.
Luckily for her, the real Kalliope, the Grand, the Muse, springing out of GR where she has been dwelling in the recent past, took pity on her and after visiting the gods of literature and seeking their acceptance, decided to assist the spirally and guide her through the imposing Labyrinth.As the Grand Kalliope-the-Muse thought that Spirally would need further assistance once she entered the traitorous mesh, she awarded her three magic weapons: an edition with footnotes; a textual companion; and an audio version.
The Labyrinth has shifting walls and to find the right way one needs to listen to its inner reverberations and echoes.
This intimidating text often tames the ambition of a reader I had heard, sometimes right in the beginning, and occasionally, mid-way, of reading it in full.
But if my experience helps in any way, I am happy to share it under the spoiler :) (view spoiler)[When I started, I had two versions of Ulysses with me; a kindle version and a paperback.
There are loads of stuff offline and online and I am mentioning here only those that I sort of feel would be useful: Ulysses Annotated is a rich book for those looking for annotations to help understand certain contexts of political, commercial and religious heat of that time.
Joyce is the man you read in bed, furiously tongue-fingering the pages to see what seminal modernist technique he invents, masters, inverts, spins on its head like a circus freak with a whirligig in his bonce.
Look, Joyce loves his reader!
Joyce believes in you.
So what if Joyce was wrong and every reader would need The New Bloomsday Book merely to scratch the surface of this amorphous, expanding superbrain of a book?
Everything that followed Ulysses expanded, plundered and rehashed Ulysses.
If you like any books at all, anything post-Ulysses, you’re an ideal candidate to read Ulysses.
It comes to the same thing.(THE GIRLFRIEND gives him a irritated look)THE REVIEWER: [Smugly] Don't get your knickors in a twistor.[They have reached a bookstall full of lurid French paperbacks.
THE GIRLFRIEND: Speak English, you old fart.[EINSTEIN shrugs and calls over LAWRENCE KRAUSS and RICHARD DAWKINS to join him.
They sing together in uncertain harmony]ALBERT EINSTEIN: Space is curved.LAWRENCE KRAUSS: But it's flat.RICHARD DAWKINS: Well, that's put an end to that.THE REVIEWER: I'm not sure I follow---RICHARD DAWKINS: [Irritated] There is no God. Do I have to explain everything?
[He raises his glass in salutation to THE REVIEWER, who follows his GIRLFRIEND across the Route de Carouge.

But that initial setting down of the book was likely a blessing, as fresh Shakespeare and Homer reads go a long way toward increasing a layered understanding of and gratification from this novel.
Bloom and Stephen are real people with thoughts and actions, ranging from the tedious to the generous to the despicable, that are often wincingly human.
In a later episode, I thought that side character Gerty (a stand in for The Odyssey’s Nausicaa) had spied out a sad-looking Stephen Dedalus on the beach, but a few pages later we find out this man with the despondent countenance is actually Bloom.
Joyce writes sections in the style of a newspaper, in musical motifs, and in Chapter 14, in almost every literary style used in the British Isles since the pre-Roman era.Aside from this technical virtuosity, there are some astounding experiments in human psychology, written in a stream-of-consciousness style, as seen most famously in Daedalus' internal monologue in Chapter 3 and Molly Bloom's titanic rambling sentences in the final chapter.
In Chapter 10, 'Wandering Rocks', we see the divergent streams of multiple characters in the city itself, and Joyce skips from person to person, demonstrating their vast differences as part of a broader whole.But aside from these broad literary themes, what is the book about?
It has something else in mind.Virginia Woolf famously called Ulysses the work of "a queasy undergraduate scratching his pimples," but she also said of it, "If we want life itself, here surely we have it." It was a clear influence on Mrs. Dalloway, but she "invites the suspicion that she is awkwardly straining to rationalize an aversion that she cannot justify by logical means," and I bring this up in order to point out that a super smart lady feels the same way I do and therefore I'm right or at least not definitely wrong.Because here's my problem with Ulysses: my problem is James Joyce.
Y así como nadie puede ignorar la importancia del Ulises en la literatura, nadie puede negar la influencia que este libro tuvo (y tiene) en los escritores constitutivos que la alimentan.
Ya decía William Gaddis, quien, con tan solo haber leído el monólogo interior final de Molly Bloom, se refirió a Joyce como una influencia más allá de la práctica, casi metafísica o religiosa, de las letras.El Ulises es único, inigualable, una violenta forma de arte que tiende a tomar al lector por las orejas e incrustarlo en una historia simple pero plagada de elementos enciclopédicos que hacen de su lectura una muestra expuesta de profunda desesperación.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Leopold Bloom, A Man For All Time: "Ulysses" by James JoyceI started off thinking Ulysses was a pile of incoherent drivel, even though I'd never got past the first page.
At 30 I decided to put up or shut up by actually reading it so that I could explain why it was incoherent drivel.
The result was that I was drawn into it and have read it five times cover-to-cover.
Like a lot of challenging literature, it requires a bit of life experience to get into.More stuff on the other side of the rainbow.
According to Declan Kiberd, "Before Joyce, no writer of fiction had so foregrounded the process of thinking".Ulysses chronicles the peripatetic appointments and encounters of Leopold Bloom in Dublin in the course of an ordinary day, 16 June 1904.
The novel is highly allusive and also imitates the styles of different periods of English literature.Episode 12, Cyclops: This chapter is narrated by an unnamed denizen of Dublin.
ز» به‌ آجدان‌ مک‌فادان‌ از تۀ‌ دل‌ تبریک‌ گفتند، در حالی‌ که‌ از بدن‌ چند تن‌ از آنان‌ خون‌ فراوانی‌ می‌رفت‌».
Okay, well here it is!!http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AuULcV...I finished Ulysses!
It looked like this:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s1kVX8...*******To prepare for this journey, I consulted many on-line resources that provided the fundamentals I would need for comprehending this beast of a novel.
I procured a reading buddy to accompany me on the expedition, acquired a copy of the novel, got lots of rest and had a good, hearty meal, then began my trek.We got off to a quick start.
If you’d like to read an actual awesome review of this novel, may I direct you to s.penkevich’s: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/....
TEASES US OUT OF THOUGHT... diceva Keats.Così è con Joyce, ci fa uscire di testa, ci porta al punto in cui l'intelletto non serve. Milo O’Shea/Leopold Bloom e Geoffrey Golden in “Ulysses” di Joseph Strick, 1967, liberamente ispirato al romanzo di Joyce.Sono altri gli organi sollecitati dalla scrittura, altri neuroni: abbandonarsi, non capire, capire a metà, fraintendere, ascoltare il brusio incessante del linguaggio, seguirne le capriole...Il bel bianco e nero del film....Ho ancora il sapore del rognone che sfrigola nel burro sulla padella...And I schschschschschsch. And did you chachachachacha? And why did you?Milo O’Shea/Leopold Bloom.
You know, towards the end, Joyce described Bloom and Stephen as somnambulists (sleepwalkers) and my mind exploded—i.e. the whole book was the nightmare the characters were trying to wake up from.Then I thought about how much Joyce references works of other literature (especially Shakespeare, holy shit there’s a lot of shakespeare in this thing).
