https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76949.The_Hooded_Hawk_Mystery
Good...but I've read better in this series.
I used to be a fan of the Hardy Boys, though I've only read a couple of books from the series.
This might be my third or fourth one.
Though the plot points seem logical, I can't help but think outside a PG-13 setting were criminals are more ruthless and cold-blooded than normally depicted in the series.
The boys occasionally get kidnapped and LIVE because all these men can do is tie them up and gag them.
I also cringe at the fact that these criminals easily let these boys shove them around, beat them up, and give in easily to questioning.
The Hardy boys enter a mystery which involves there friend a Hawk that is named Miss. Peregrine, I think.They randomly received the hawk as a gift. And while the boys Frank and Joe send the bird outside. The hawk flies up and comes back to them with a pigeon that was holding rubies. Apparently the rubies were sent to other criminals to pay a ransom of the governer's missing son. After close encounters with death and losing thier hawk. The boys once again save a hostage and capture the criminals.
This book was a great continuation of the Hardy Boys books! It still let readers pick it up and have a basic knowledge of what is happening. This book had action, mystery, and hawks to intercept the messenger pigeons. The genera of this book was mystery. With not having much character development compared with the other books it still was a great book. I would recommend this book for any readers between the ages 8-12.
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
When Frank and Joe receive a peregrine falcon, they never could have expected it to bring back a homing pigeon carrying a bag of rubies, or the perils witnessing the jewels carries! Dixon will have young readers caught up in a grand mystery with this entry!
Yeah this one was kinda weird... whenever they smuggle illegal aliens, it gets a bit strange. Eh.
Charlie and I continue our way through the Hardy Boys series. We really liked the unusualness of the story being based around falconry. Taught Charlie about something he never knew existed.
The Hardy Boys sires is written by Franklin W Dixion and most of them have a good plot.
Most falcon hunt different things, the peregrine falcon (which happens to be the kind the Hardy's have) hunts pigeons and boy were they surprised when they saw it take down a carrier pigeon that had rubies in its container.
Most of the book has to do with India and Indians which leads to awesome plot twists.
Man, they were even more surprised to hear that an Indian prince was kidnapped and the kidnappers asked for a ransom of rubies .
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books. The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.The two boys live in the fictional city of Bayport (on Barmet Bay) with their famous father, Fenton Hardy, a private detective formerly with the New York Police Department, their mother Laura Hardy (erroneously called Mildred in The Flying Express), and their Aunt Gertrude, a character often used for comic relief.
These pole-vaulting, jujitsu-loving Hardy Boys will whip a brown man's ass, and don't you forget it!This one is so far-fetched it's really laughable. I mean, these international human traffickers get their asses KICKED by these two boys. The funniest part was when they told their mother that they were going to the smugglers' hideout, and Moms was like, "OK, but you two be careful now, hear?"They really jumped the shark with this one.
So, any book that has a chapter titled 'A Big Boner' probably isn't usually suitable for kids, but these were different times. So different, in fact, that Fenton Hardy's tow sons are not taken into care when he does nothing to stop the two teens from investigating the crimes of people who have tried to blow up their house. One of the least realistic books of the series, though filled with facts about hawks that some kids might enjoy.
i really enjoyed this particular one. i thought it was really fascinating that they actually told you about having a "hooded hawk". i thought it was a great new way to help solve the mystery, cause they had never really used any animals to solve a case before.
I wish I had a pet like in the issue Frank and Joe get a pet Hawk from their dad's friend. I bet it's great having a pet but their also a huge responsibility. I bet it's worth it since Hawks can be used to catch birds carrying secret messages and other objects. What do you think about having a pet?
I think the Hardy Boy books helped me with learning deductive and inductive skills. I had to work through logic. Who knew? I enjoyed all these books.
Just read another book in the series with my eleven year-old son. The series are great for a young man.
Frank and Joe have a new hawk!!! and the BOOK? AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! so much ACTION and MYSTERY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! :) :) :) :) :)
This one is one of my favorite ones. The plot is really interesting and action-packed.
Having never read a Hardy Boys book, I thought I'd try one. I expected it to be somewhat juvenile, but it turned out to be an enjoyable read after all. I intend to read some more titles.
SM
The best Hardy Boys book yet!
The Hardys get mixed up with kidnappers after finding a homing pigeon with rubies
Dixon, Franklin W.
Read in 2005.
I read the entire Hardy Boys series, but this was one of my favorites.
My book has the same cover as shown in this listing but was published in 1971.
I loved this book, it kept me on the edge of my seat (figuratively) I'm anxious to get my hands on another Hardy Boys book soon... :)
One of my favorite Hardy Boys books.
This book was my favorite in the Hardy Boys series. If you still enjoy a quick and enjoyable read, I highly recommend it.
