https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266978.The_Keepers_of_the_House
Keepers of the House by Shirley Ann Grau is the October 2016 pre 1980 read for the Southern Literary Trail group on Goodreads.
A novel featuring exquisite prose and a captivating story, Keepers of the House weaves a tale of many generations of one interlocking family in a rural southern community.
Even though he largely raised his granddaughter Abigail, he keeps this secret from her for the rest of his life.Shirley Grau weaves a tale of politics, race relations, and magical realism that often comes to the surface in southern tales.
He also said: "Our children grow old and elbow us into the grave." And that is why Money and Power would finally get a human face: Abigail Howland Mason Tolliver.
What if William Howland did not venture into the swamps to find the hidden stills of the Robertson brothers and met Margaret Carmichael washing her clothes in a remote spot of the river?What if Abigail, his daughter, did not marry Gregory Edward Mason?What if Abigail, his granddaughter, did not marry John Tolliver?What if William Howland made his only son, Robert, his rightful heir?What if Abigail did not inherited his power and wealth from her grandfather?What if Abigail blamed her own choices for the tragedy that ensued, and not other people?
I first read this book about 15 years ago when I assigned it for my bookclub.
With 200 years of living on the same land, in the same house, we get the stories of the predecessors of Will Howland and his grand-daughter Abigail.
Will spent his last 30 years living with his black "housekeeper", and had 3 children with her.
Beautiful, poetic prose, wonderful nature writing, an understanding of how to build a story, and some powerful characters determined to protect their own make this a great book.
Highly recommended to anyone needing a really good book to get involved in.
Will’s granddaughter, Abigail, is left to handle the consequences of this legacy, and she draws on the strength of her grandfather’s blood in a way that leaves you cheering for her aloud.The most shocking thing about this book is that it is not more widely known and appreciated.
How many of us have the courage to lead a life that is opposed to that norm?Along the way, Grau scatters little bits of wisdom that are completely true, completely universal, and yet so seldom voiced:We’ll remember him, she thought.
In so many ways, that is what this book is really about, the passage of time and the passage of something unidentifiable, in the blood, that is about who we are and where we come from.
1965 Pulitzer winner, I Found akin to Being Made to Eat a Heaping Helping of Turnip Greens [yuck!] Because I was a "Growing Boy"The Unfair Bait-and-SwitchI read this novel for two reasons: it won the Pulitzer the year I was born, and it's set in a fictional county in the deep American South during a time of racial hatred and violence.
The characters are rather shallow, and it seems to me that Ms. Grau could have cut the book in half and still achieved her goal.
If I had to nominate any single book to represent and capture the American South, this would be it.--There are eccentric family secrets and they are indelicate, but the delicacy of the voice that delivers the words soothes with gentleness.
--These are also some of the best descriptions of our Natural world, this amazingly skilled author delivers beautiful vignettes while keeping a kinetic thread of activity.
Action passes through nature and leaves a poets keen observances of the beautiful and the violent.--I recommend this to everyone.
If Harper Lee, Henry David Thoreau and Wallace Stegner had a triracial love child it might read something like this 1965 Pulitzer Prize winner. Wait a second... Triracialism... I think I need to go back and reread some things in Margaret's section before I continue trying to write this. In the meantime (and I case I don't), let me just say that it's a crime that this isn't as widely read as To Kill a Mockingbird. I learned so much more from it. 5 stars.
November evenings are quiet and still and dry.
The river is small this time of year, drought-shrunken.
I shall destroy as much as I have lost.It's a way to live, you know.
And that's enough for now.These are the first and last paragraphs of the brief first section of Chapter 1 of The Keepers of the House, a wonderful tale of several generations of a Southern family.
It is a delicious slice of Southern culture and of the painful effects of sex-roles and racial conflicts on the lives of the family's members.
Abigail, the granddaughter of William Howland, reflects back on the family's history in the Howland's large home.
In the last days of his political campaign, new information comes to light about William and Margaret's relationship.
Abigail vows to uphold the honor of the Howlands and take revenge on the people who hurt her family.There is a real sense of place in the descriptions so the reader feels enveloped by the Southern atmosphere.
Building in layers, this is a powerful book with strong people--Abigail, William, and Margaret--as the three main characters.
For more thoughts, read along:There has got to be a glitch in the Goodreads rating system (as of the writing of this review this book is rated at 3.82).
She can turn the script on a dime; shifting from one side story to another mid-sentence without pushing in the clutch in the slightest......yet, she didn't perturb me in the slightest as can often be the result when author's get fancy trying to twist me around like that.
Trying like heck to avoid a spoiler, but I would simply say hang on until the end- you will not be disappointed.
This is a wonderfully written book which tells the story of a house, the land it sits on and the Howland family who lived in it for well over a century.
Grau has created her own corner of the South here, presenting men and women of varying strengths and weaknesses, all caught up in the ongoing history of that area including the complications, terrors and pain of race relations.Multiple generations have lived and died on this land and the white family has always had black hands working the land with them.
Back in February 2014 my husband mentioned I needed to read this book.
I said "yeah, I'll get to it" but here I am 2 1/2 years later saying "he was right and I was wrong for putting it off".
I love a strong female character (she does have some flaws, but who doesn't).
You see some real independence by the end of the book.
I also like that it hints at a daughter who is following in the footsteps of her mother.
This is a great multi-generational story that I thoroughly enjoyed.
Don't skip the epilogue....you won't be disappointed in the ending.
To call this book "an indictment of racism" was quite an exaggeration. Most of this book is almost a stream of consciousness family history - not terribly interesting if it's not your family. Maybe the inclusion of a mixed race marriage was bold in the 1960s so the Pulitzer Prize committee could congratulate itself about how progressive it was. Otherwise, I have no idea why this book won the prize.
Not just his hands and face and neck, not just the exposed skin, but his whole body burned as the tiny insects slipped inside his clothing."But this Alabama swamp and the house the first William built on a bluff above a river in the early 1800's is just part of the story.
Grau writes a lot about loss in this book, through the voice of Abigail Mason Howland Tolliver, as she proceeds through the lives of six generations of Howlands - the 'keepers of the house': "They are dead, all of them.
Personally, I preferred hanging out with William in a skiff in the swamp, hunting for a hidden likker still, to the final half of the book.
They were just on sale, and I liked the sample, so I took a chance and realized after I started listening to the book that it fits my trend.
All I, an outsider listening to the story of the Howland history, needed to know was that he went on a quest to find a whiskey still as a personal bet to himself, and on his way back home he ran into the girl that he would hire as a housekeeper.
Likewise, I felt that our narrator, Abigail Howland (the 2nd), was not very adept at communicating the relevant bits of her story.
But the more I got to know Abigail, the more I felt like I didn't understand her at all.
This book begins rather slowly by setting up the charismatic characters of the Howland family, who now led by a tough (but endearing and wise ) patriarch William, have flourished in Alabama for 7 generations as great landowners and pillars of Southern society, and setting up a beautiful descriptive environment in which further action will take place .
But stick with it, there is plenty of action on the way as many years after the death of his first wife William begins a relationship with Margaret who was briefly his black servant .
With William, with Margaret, and with the granddaughter Abby- all of them- THE EYES!!
Superb natural world descriptions but always through character reaction within that nature and not apart from the human immersion within it.
Regardless, this is a strong, warm and human tale of that couple William/ Margaret and the power of character.
And also the fierce iron-clad self-identity of Abigail who through her Grandfather understood the nearly 200 year connection to that house place and ridge edge.
Most times never by any choice for a permanence of establishment in the sense that Abigail's family held in this book.
3 1/2 This book read the Pulitzer awhile ago and it is a expose somewhat on the race tensions in the south. I enjoyed reading about William the best, really liked how he didn't care what anyone thought, but took care of his family.
The Depression, WW2, the Korean War, and the rise of the Civil Rights Movement slide by, but the focus is on the people living there in the South.
But what makes this book better than others that focus on the question of bi-racial identity?
It is in the way she describes their lives and their surroundings: the nearby swamp, the fires, the weddings, the funerals and an old man watching his children and their children and the following generations grow up, watching and observing and making his own life choices.
What makes this story so perfect is in the author's way of telling it.
I thought how much I - and some of my GR friends - like works in which the sense of place is as much a part as any of the characters.The short hard winter passed.
Fine early-spring rains began, light delicate ones like fog or smoke, that dusted the surfaces of houses and trees and earth—the gentle ones.
For them, early spring was a time of rest, almost like the winter had been.Told in 4 parts and an Epilogue by Abigail Howland, her grandfather William, and William's Negro mistress, Margaret.
A little bit confusing with all the same names(prob. because of audio book) but good characters. and a pretty surprising end!sweet revenge.I loved all the descriptions of the swap. This was also a nice companion read to "hunter's horn", fox hunts, and moonshine stills, and a lot of of gossip.audio book on hoopla.
Shortly after his death when Howland’s actual marriage to Margaret is exposed, all hell breaks loose, and Abigail is forced to defend her home against her white neighbors who try to set it on fire.Grau has woven an intricate story with memorable characters in an authentic setting.
Some have imbibed the bigotry of the times and the place; others try to navigate their bi-racial relationships and bi-racial identities the best way they know how in an environment that is hostile to both.This is a complex novel with complex characters.
By the end of the novel, Abigail Howland has earned her title as the keeper of the house.A powerful story told with eloquence, passion, and heart.
Before a few months ago I had never even heard of it, and now, having read it, I can only place it in my personal pantheon of Great American Novels.
The Keepers of the House is exquisite in everything from its sultry and at times disturbing language to its irrepressibly keen perspective on race relations in the American South.Winner of the Pulitzer Prize in 1965, this masterpiece of a novel should be read by anyone who is interested in understanding the painful subtleties of American racism and the hypocrisy and violence that inevitably follow.More at my BLOG .
#2016-USA-Geography-Challenge: week one ~ ALABAMAThis is quite an explosive story that deals with racism and segregation in the South.
Grau tells the story of the Howland family, whose founder settled in the county and built the original homestead 150 years before the setting of the story.
The title 'The Keepers of the House' gives a hint to how important that house was to the family.
Abigal Howland Tollivar is married to a man who is certain to be the next governor of the state...until her late grandfather's secret is revealed and all hell breaks loose.
Although it takes a while to develop, the story picks up the pace as it reaches its shattering conclusion.
A 1965 Pulitzer Prize winner did not disappoint. This book gained steam in the second half of the book where we hear from Abigail, that was my favourite part of the book. If you liked To Kill a Mockingbird, this book is for you.
This book is initially slow-paced, taking a long time to set up scenery and family histories, but the final vindictive and vindicating crescendo is so pleasurable that any amount of time put into it is well worth your while.
In fact, I loved Keepers of the House precisely because of the sophistication of its very conception--it's not just message fiction, or else it would be outdated as an Andrea Dworkin book in many parts of the country.
Grau certainly is not attempting to make multiracial families seem "other," in fact, isn't she actually writing to accentuate, examine, and undermine our conception of what is "black" or "white"?
The main charachters didn 't have much depth and I didn't care what happened to them.
(they were never fully explained, their motives were unclear)But i finished reading it after all, i was trying to see if anything at all happens towards the end, which still says something, otherwise I would have just stopped reading it.
There were parts I liked, but if I am honest, the only reason I kept reading this is that it had won the Pulitzer and its so famous.
I won't be doing this again any time soon (continuing reading a book I am not completely thrilled with)
It took me 42 days to read the first 200 pages of Shirley Ann Grau’s 1965 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel “The Keepers of the House” and one sitting to finish its final 109 pages.
But then, much to my satisfaction, “The Keepers of the House” took off.Shirley Ann Grau’s novel is about real life, as it was lived in the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s in rural Alabama.
Margaret spends time with her in the kitchen while William makes his calls in a separate room.“You hungry?” Margaret asked.“No.”“Didn’t have lunch?”“I’m not hungry.”“Soup,” she said.
From me, the genre is literary fiction and for me The Keepers of The House is one of those books that reminds me why I am a literary fiction reader.
They are not all of the Howlands (including Abigail) are white, there is small a branch of the family that is mixed race and their role in the story is not prominent until the end.
The Keeper of The House starts off the the narrator, Abigail, reflecting on how her and her children ended up where they are.
They all had good qualities and bad.The Keepers of The House reminded me a lot of John Steinbeck's East of Eden (which I loved).
This book read in a very authentic and genuine way, meaning I would be shocked to find that Shirley Ann Grau was not a Southern woman that spent part of her life in a small town.
The things that provide tension and interest in the rest of the book (dialogue, social interaction, acidity) and where Grau is so stellar, are not available in the swamp.
So that part sat less naturally and was far less engaging, but hoo boy, the rest was phenomenal.And I agree with a lot of the other reviewers of this book, that this is one of the more (undeservedly)underrated Pulitzers.
