https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/871284.Billy_Bathgate
He describes his streets and adventures in the way that an intelligent boy of his age would see them, and he soon convinces the reader both of the believability of his character and of his reliability as a narrator.
Doctorow never has to tell us this; he does it all with a slight shift of style.Another virtue of the book—something all good gangster novels should have--is vivid, gritty scenes of sex and violence.
He granted himself his authorial wish, but—in my opinion—he had to do violence to the shape of the book to make such a neat ending possible.
He seemed like a fascinating person, and now I'm interested in reading more about him, as well as his "accountant," math genius "Abbadabba" Berman, who helped Schultz with the numbers racket.But the story here is about -- and narrated by -- fictional young Billy, who grew up poor in the Bronx until one day Schultz, a local hero to many, took notice of Billy juggling in front of one of his warehouses and called him "a capable boy," which basically awed and changed Billy to the point that his entire goal in life was to be close to Dutch and his crew.

دکتروف نویسنده مورد علاقه منه...هم فیلمشو دیده ام و هم کتابشو خوندم....عالی بود...شاید در سطح هومر و لنگلی و رگتایم نبود ولی باز هم دکتروف عالی بود....
189. Billy Bathgate, E.L. DoctorowBilly Bathgate is a 1989 novel by author E. L. Doctorow that won the 1989 National Book Critics Circle award for fiction for 1990, the 1990 PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction, the 1990 William Dean Howells Medal, and was the runner-up for the 1990 Pulitzer Prize and the 1989 National Book Award. The story is told in the first person by Billy "Bathgate" Behan, a fifteen year-old boy who first becomes the gofer and then surrogate son of mobster Dutch Schultz. A 1991 f
A 1991 film based on the novel starred Loren Dean as Billy, Dustin Hoffman as Schultz, Steven Hill as Otto Berman, Nicole Kidman as Drew, and Bruce Willis as Bo.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: سال 1999 میلادیعنوان: بیلی باتگیت؛ نویسنده: ای.ال.
دکتروف؛ مترجم: نجف دریا بندری؛ تهران، طرح نو، 1377؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، کارنامه، 1386؛ در 464 ص؛ شابک: 9789644310782؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، طرح نقد، 1396؛ در 398 ص؛ شابک: 9786008582250؛ داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مدر دوران رکود اقتصادی تاریخی، در سالهای 1930 میلادی، در محله ی فقر زده ی برانکس نیویورک، گانگستری به نام داچ شولتز، پسرکی را در خیابان میبیند، که با همسالانش شعبه بازی میکند، او به عنوان دستخوش، یک اسکناس ده دلاری به او میدهد.
وقتی کتاب خیلی خوبی از نویسندهای میخوانم یک تصویر بزرگ از او در ذهنم ایجاد میشود و ستون بلندی از توقعات و انتظارات. به خودم میگویم او نابغه است. درست مثل وقتی که «رگتایم» را خواندم. و شخصیت هری هودینی با وجود تکثر شخصیتها هنوز توی ذهنم هست. بیلی بتگیت در نگاه من شخصیت ماندگاری نیست. یعنی آنطور که بشود بعدها به یادش آورد. مخاطراتی که برای بیلی اتفاق میافتد هر چند برای یک پسر نوجوان زیادی بزرگ و زیادی مصیبتبار است اما نمیتوان بیشتر از باقی شخصیتها برایش دل سوزاند. برخورد او با ماجرای کتاب چندان مخ
وقتی کتاب خیلی خوبی از نویسنده‌ای می‌خوانم یک تصویر بزرگ از او در ذهنم ایجاد می‌شود و ستون بلندی از توقعات و انتظارات.
و شخصیت هری هودینی با وجود تکثر شخصیت‌ها هنوز توی ذهنم هست.
بیلی بتگیت در نگاه من شخصیت ماندگاری نیست.
مخاطراتی که برای بیلی اتفاق می‌افتد هر چند برای یک پسر نوجوان زیادی بزرگ و زیادی مصیبت‌بار است اما نمی‌توان بیش‌تر از باقی شخصیت‌ها برایش دل سوزاند.
برخورد او با ماجرای کتاب چندان مخصوص و ویژه نیست.
بعد از خواندن رگتایم دو کتاب دیگر از دکتروف خوانده‌ام و همچنان لذت خواندن آن اولی برایم مخصوص و بی‌تکرار است.

Like Ragtime, like Book of Daniel, like Homer & Langley, Billy Bathgate is an awesome read that not only tells an individual story, but captures an era so well you are helpless but to be drawn wholly into the romanticism of that era.
This is a coming-of-age story, but unlike most stories like that, Billy Bathgate is presented to us in one of the most moving narrative voices ever to grace that niche.
To me, that is the mark of genius, that subtle seduction with words that makes it okay to root for the bad guy.This was an awesome book.
این درست که بیلی باگتیت به نسبت بقیه داستانهای گنگستری، از هیجان و حادثه کمتری برخوردار است ولی مگر میشود از یک داستان نسبتا شخصیت محور توقعی جز این داشت؟ در عوض شخصیت پردازی منحصر بفرد، توصیف موقعیت ها و ارتباط بین کاراکترهای داستان تو یِ خواننده را آنچنان مسحور می کند که در پایان داستان به خود میآیی و میبینی یک تبهکار و آدمکش بالقوه شدهای که خدا خدا می کند بیلی به خونخواهی از آقای شولتش و برمن آن خیانتکار را سوراخ سوراخ کندکمی بعد از خواندن کتاب، به دیدن فیلم اقتباسی به کارگردانی رابرت بنتون ن
لذت بردن از فیلمی با یک چنین داستان و ستارگانی چون داستین هافمن و نیکول کیدمن توقع زیادی نیست، اما به هیچ عنوان انتخاب رضایت‌بخشی نبود.
تمام جذابیت داستان از بین رفته بود و با یک اکشن کم‌سرعت و حوصله‌ سربر روبرو شدم.
پایان بی‌مزه فیلم هم که با داستان اصلی کاملا مغایرت داشت به کنار
Doctorow is such a master wordsmith.
His vocabulary is impressive, his turn of phrase striking, the cadence in his character’s voices is captivating.
This is Billy’s story of his attempt to escape his impoverished tenement neighborhood in the 1930s by affiliation with a well-known gang of mobsters.
This runs from funny to morbid, from tender to cruel with amazing agility.
My only problem was that Billy’s narrative voice was too sophisticated for a minimally educated 15 year old.
It is not until the final chapter that we learn that Billy is relating this story as an adult with many experiences that would have shaped his voice.
My first misfire since I came home in November.Huge run on sentences, extensive description, and I'm outta here.There are only two humans on earth who should be able to bend the rules of the English language to tell their story: Cormac McCarthy and James Ellroy. I realize Doctorow came well before these authors, so I can understand why some people may have a soft spot for him. Not me.This same plotline of boy meets mafia was done much better in Nicholas Pileggi's Wiseguy, which later became the basis for the movie Goodfellas. Stick to that one.
This is not a book I would have chosen to read on my own, even though I enjoy historical fiction and coming of age stories.
He tells the story from a time, somewhere in the future, when he's an adult, looking back on a handful of months that changed his life and the lives of those he encountered when joining the Dutch Schultz gang.
First off, the story was rich in historical detail, the author expertly building that world to the point where I never slipped out of that time period when reading about it.
Am meisten nervt die überfrachtete Sprache, die nicht zum geringsten zu einem Gassenjungen aus der Bronx passt (auch wenn die Erinnerungen an jenes entscheidende Jahr Jahrzehnte später von einem reichen und angesehenen Mann zu Papier gebracht werden, der sich nach seiner Zeit bei der Schultz-Gang als Hochbegabter entpuppt.)Ein kurzes, immerhin vergleichsweise brillantes Beispiel dieser etwas verstiegenen Prosa, im Nebenzimmer hat sich gerade ein Mord ereignet: Die alles dauerte gut eine Stunde, wenn nicht noch länger, und dann, es muss gegen elf gewesen sein, hörte ich tatsächlich den Schuss, man fragt sich nicht mehr, was es ist, wenn man es hört, die Kunde ist eindeutig, sie bohrt sich durch die Kammern des Ohrs und als das Echo verhallt war, vernahm ich die Stille der plötzlichen Subtraktion eines Lebens von der Welt, und in der bebenden Wirklichkeit dessen, was ich wusste, saß ich auf dem Rand meines Betts, diesmal zu gelähmt um auch nur aufzustehen und meine Zimmertür abzuschließen.
There were a couple of instances of somewhat graphic violence - this was Dutch Schultz's gang - but not in a squeamish way and so much that I was fearful.
There was also a somewhat graphic sex scene.
He is a bit free with his sentence structure and there were a couple of times I went back to reread, wondering if my mind had wandered and I had missed something.
A lot of of clauses and a lot of commas in a few instances.
Although this is told in the first person, I would not characterize the style as stream of consciousness.
Mafia italiană își construiește imperiul, mafiile locale se războiesc pentru control și supremație, iar poliția mai degrabă asistă pasivă la acest război civil, în parte datorită corupției generalizate.În lumea aceasta, puștiul Billy Bathgate își croiește repede drumul spre cercul intim al Olandezului.
Fascinat de bani, de strălucirea pompoasă a eliteri gangsterilor, Billy asistă la crime, fraude, violența de zi cu zi a bandei.
Un roman bine scris, palpitant, cu multe portrete inspirate din lumea reală a Americii anilor 30, un roman care redă o geografie palpabilă a vieții și a modului de a trăi în acei ani.
مادری که حرفی از اشتباهات پسرش نمیزنه و تنها حضورش حتی باوجود افسردگی که داره باعث دلخوشیه بیلیه.عاشق مادرم بودم چون این همه جنایت دورو برش شکل میگرفت و او همچنان معصوم مانده بود, درست مثل پیامبری که نگران امت خویش است.
ص107و چه نگاه زیبا و توصیفات دلنشینی داره دکتروف مثل توصیف شب چراغها خاموش بود و صدای زنجره ها در کشتزارهای اونونداگا چون نبض بلند شب مینواخت, انگار شب موجودی عظیم چو دریاست که در آن زندگی میکنند, عشق می ورزند و می میرند.و یا وقتی از اندوه تنها ماندن بیلی بعد از مرگ کسانی که میشناخته میگه چرا همگی چنین بناگاه رفته اند, انگار مرگ هم مراوده وهم است.
He adds a few fictional characters (typically the narrator), some propulsive but not modernist prose, and the story tells itself!This time it is Dutch Schultz, Lucky Luciano and the other gangsters of the Prohibition (and just post) era.
The narrator is a teenaged boy from the Bronx, adopted as a side-kick to the Schultz gang, and the events of 1935 are recounted quite faithfully.
In some sense the whole book, the way the known facts are slightly shaped novelistically, is meant to provide some context for understanding Schultz's famously surrealist "last words" speech, though it still, of course, remains rather elusive.
I do enjoy reading Doctorow but I can't find a word, a relevant sentence, something which reveals my high respect to him and his works / novels. بیل باتگیت با ترجمه ی زیبای نجف دریابندری به فارسی منتشر شده است.
Excellent, wordy but excellent.
First, the story is told from the point of view of Billy, a 15-year-old boy.
These aspects of the text didn't discourage me from reading the book, but if you're looking for a fast and easy read, this book is not for you.Billy Behan is a 15-year-old boy who gets involved with Dutch Schultz's gang in the New York of the 1930s.
The book starts with the killing of Bo Weinberg, one of Dutch's top men, who betrayed his boss.
Despite his fear of Dutch's temper, Billy admires and even loves the man.
In this novel, Doctorow looks at this life through the eyes of the tiitle character, a 15 year old who not only witnesses murders of those who turn on the main gang leader (Dutch Schultz), but also becomes almost a protege of this leader.
However, Doctorow's masterful grasp of the history of that period, much as he had in his novel "Ragtime" (a significant part of the final few chapters involves District Attorney Thomas Dewey, future governor of New York and two time Republican presidential candidate in 1944 and 1948) gives the story a sense of reality that lets the reader enjoy himself back in the time of the bootleggers.
While reading this novel, nothing else existed for me.
Doctorow has created an unforgettable character in Billy, a 15-year-old boy from the Bronx tenements who goes to work for one of the most notorious gangsters of the 1930s, Dutch Schultz.
Billy's hero worship of Schultz alternates with fear and dread as he is exposed to the gangster's murderous impulses, and I was with Billy every step of the way as he tried to make sense of it all.
Building a story around a fictional character dropped into the real-life world of the Schultz gang, Doctorow has crafted a magnificent novel, one of his best.
Doctorow is skilled with both.This one is a period piece, a look at a hard time and the ugly risks that some folks took from desperation and perhaps a misplaced idea of what greatness might look like.
To be sure, the government wasn't exactly setting a good example; those who searched for less-than-conventional means were, in my view, right to reject the American Dream as a lot of smoke and mist.
Doctorow shows that pretty well too.All told, it isn't the moral I seek in a book like this, so much as a good story.
( Lila is one of her finest works for me.) Besides, it attests to the fact that E.L Doctorow was a genius writer, and no wonder he was considered by former US President Barack Obama as one of America’s greatest contemporary writers; he had exceptional skills in giving life to his novels steeped in American social issues.That’s why an Asian reader like me tends to engross myself in them.The concept of the story is not new to me.
Billy es un adolescente que, a bordo de un barco en el estuario que hay junto a Manhattan, ve el destino que el mafioso Dutch Schultz le tiene preparado a uno de sus lugartenientes, Bo Weinberg, al que previamente Billy vio reunirse con miembros de un grupo rival.
Billy entró en el mundo del crimen organizado cuando le cayó en gracia a Schultz, que le puso a trabajar como limpiador y chico para todo, posición que le permitía ser testigo de muchas de las actividades del delincuente.
Antes de morir, Weinberg le pide a Billy que cuide de su pareja, Drew Preston, que también está en el barco.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
گفت: مثل اینکه مشکلی داری؟...گفتم : مادرم مریضه ، موندم مستاصلناراحتی اش چیه ؟-.مشاعرش خوب کار نمی کنه ،رفتارش طبیعی نیستچه کار می کنه ؟-کارهای احمقانه؟مویش را شونه می زنه؟-چی ؟.گفتم ، مویش را شانه می زنه ؟ تا وقتی زنی مویش را شونه بزنه جای نگرانی نیست- .گفتم از وقتی برگشته ام این کار رو می کنه.گفت : خب پس شاید وضعش اونقدرها هم بد نباشه-.کتاب جالبی بود ولی آخرش خیلی رویایی ویک جورایی فانتزی بود
Din colecția Romanul secolului XX de la Univers. Când am citit-o, parcă mă gândeam că nu am întâlnit carte din acea colecție care să nu îmi placă.
o radiografie a unei societăți care încă nu a apus în întregime
This is the story of a young man self christened Billy Bathgate, local neighborhood kid slash aspiring gangster circa early 1930's.
Billy asserts himself and kind of accidently wiggles his way into the Dutch Schultz mob, a gang famous for it's gambling, racketeering, murdering as well as various other undercover activities.
Where Billy was just another ordinary kid from around the corner in the neighborhood, taken under the wing of the gang, he learns he can be useful to it's members.
On the surface there is the story of what is currently happening with the Dutch Schultz mob and their troubles around the time that Billy enters the picture.
After this encounter, Billy ingratiates himself with Dutch Schultz and works to become, gradually, his protege, doing menial jobs at first, but soon gaining the boss's trust and taking part in the darker aspects of gangster life.In this book, E.L. Doctorow does a masterful job of portraying the road that an ambitious and brazen young man might have followed in the gang world of New York in the 1930s.
And it is this boy, Billy Bathgate (a moniker he gives himself to protect his identity), that is the center point of this book.
Doctorow's prose style is surprisingly smooth and hypnotic, making this book about a boy's rise through the ranks of organized crime in the 1930s a wonderful read. I was pleasantly surprised by the way Doctorow made both his protagonist and his story clear-sighted and balanced. Billy never deludes himself about the ugly and violent side of gangland life even while he is attracted by and continues to pursue it. Doctorow also gives a lot of attention to the emotional and psychological experience of involvement of organized crime without losing any narrative drive.
This is a remarkable book told from the viewpoint of "a capable boy" from the tenement streets of the East Bronx who is taken in by the crimeland figure Dutch Shultz. It is E.L. Doctorow at the near-peak of his powers creating a fascinating story by winding history and fiction together. My only criticism was that I didn't quite believe the romance of a sub-plot which I won't discuss here as it would create a spoiler. But, when Doctorow is describing the sites and sounds of the streets or creating the other characters, he is an absolute master.
من هیچ نمی فهمیدم چه طور ممکن است سرزمین روستا اینقدر قشنگ باشد و در عین حال بدون این که پیدا باشد این قدر گرفتاری داشته باشد ...
چیزی که بار اول به اسم سکوت به گوشم خورد معلوم شد هوای پر از صداهای طبیعی است مثل باد و نسیم و گردباد که لای بته ها می پیچد و جیر جیر و چهچهه و وزوز و تیک تیک و قورقور که منشا هیچ کدامشان پیدا نبود.
انگار بینایی در عالم طبیعت زمخت ترین حس آدمیزاد است...!
As a reader opens the pages of "Billy Bathgate" they are taken back to the days of prohibition and notorious gangsters.One of those famous gangsters wi Dutch Schultz.
He comes to idolize Schultz from his power, the way he's revered in the community and by many of New York jet setters.There are many shady characters in the story.
Their stories may be gone but in this story, some of the events of that time are brought to life once more.The characters are well developed and become likable in their own way.
Just one tiny inch away from a real masterpiece.
Per Doctorow, the language is dense and the syntax spirals on. Yet, rather than alienating or being at odds with the narrator and story, it actually makes both epic. I love the rendering of 1930s America, and I love the idea of a mob story beginning on the decline of the characters--it's more like Greek tragedy as opposed to Shakespearean (I knew things were going to fall apart, but the question was how), except of course for Bathgate. The final sentence was killer.
I stayed up 'til way-too-late o'clock finishing this book. Like Ragtime, Doctorow illuminates and enlivens American history -- in this case, the story of Dutch Schultz and the NYC gangster scene. Doctorow's writing style has a certain stream-of-consciousness, POV flow that initially might turn off some readers but is well worth the trouble.
Did anyone read this? *SPOILER ALERT* It didn't really make sense to me that Billy and his mother wound up with Drew's baby. She was very much the aborting type, and if she hadn't, I feel like she had the kind of marriage and lifestyle where they would have just left the baby with a nanny. Thoughts?
I'm not sure why Doctorow even bothered to use punctuation because there seems to be little rationale behind his choices of commas over periods.
Doctorow is, by all accounts, a master craftsman, so I'm sure he was trying to achieve a particular effect with all these strange choices.
But sadly for me, the only effect of the screwball punctuation was to make me ignore it, and the only effect of the looping, confusing narrative was to make me lose interest in the particulars of the plot, and focus only on the descriptions of 1930s New York (which admittedly were great).
In Doctorow’s own words this is a “story of a boy’s adventures” in the New York district of the Bronx in the 1930s.
15 year old Billy is a child of the Depression and, like many of the deprived youth of the area, idolises gangster life and particularly the notorious Dutch Shultz mob.
Doctorow’s writing conjures up vivid images of the East Bronx in those days, part of the Depression-era underworld of New York City.
Doctorow's remarkable novel, "City of God," explores contemporary New York City in the context of secular Jews and of highly liberal Jews who have adopted beliefs and practices far different from traditional Judaism.In "Billy Bathgate", Doctorow offers an unforgettable picture of gangland New York City and of Jewish mobsters dominated by the figure of Dutch Schultz, as Doctorow takes the reader away from the humdrum everyday and into a world of rawness, danger, and excitement.
Rival gangs and New York officialdom, including District Attorney Thomas Dewey also receive a rich portrayal.Much of the symbolism of the book revolves around the use of words and of change, as Billy Bathgate, Abadabba Berman, and Dutch Schultz, among others, adopt names not their own.
Doctorow died in July 2015, so I checked my records to see what books of his I had read and was surprised to find the only book I had read was “Ragtime”.
Now I have another reading project, which is to read all of Doctorow’s books.“Billy Bathgate” is Doctorow’s eighth novel (1989).
The story takes place during the decline of Dutch Schultz and his gang after the repeal of prohibition.
As a horse person I enjoyed the part when they went to the races and horse action at Saratoga Springs.The book is well written.
It is in the first person narrative of Billy.
The book is a historical novel.
A mí me ha gustado prácticamente todo lo que he leído de él, algunos libros incluso me parecen magistrales, y sin embargo, si tuviese que dar diez nombres de escritores favoritos, por decir una cifra, no creo que apareciese en mi lista.
Doctorow es un escritor con oficio, con multitud de premios a sus espaldas y varias nominaciones al Nobel, y sin duda se trata de uno de los mejores autores del siglo XX.’Billy Bathgate’ empieza con un primer capítulo deslumbrante, de esos que deberían enseñar en las clases de literatura.
Billy, un joven de quince años, sueña con ser admitido como gangster en la banda de Dutch Schultz, una de las más poderosas de la ciudad.
I am not, by nature, a big fan of literature.
Not that I lack the intellectual capacity to understand and respect them, I just don't enjoy reading them.I knew that "Billy Bathgate" is a lit book before I started reading it.
Feel free not to take it too seriously.If you like literature and you're a fan of Doctorow's writing, this is closer to four stars, however, I wasn't able to enjoy it enough to give it more than a three.
But again, I'm not a big lit fan so take that for what it's worth.
E.L. Doctorow's characters have a depth that I doubt would be conveyed in the movie adaptations (this book and others of his have been adapted for film). His characters are believable and authentic, admirable, likable and frustrating. Certain parts are tragic without being moralising statements. He is gifted with a style and turn-of-phrase that shapes itself into true artistry. A beautiful, immersive and dangerous dive into 1930s New York. Could not put it down.
