https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/909331.There_Was_an_Old_Woman
And the father/son detective team is a classic in this genre.Place=4: A New York mansion facing the Hudson River is beautifully drawn: it's a classic Dame Christie country house you'll enjoy exploring (lawns, terraces, oddities of architecture) as the plot evolves.Summary: There are enough twists and turns to keep even the most discerning who-done-it readers entertained.
Many of of Ellery Queen's murder mysteries render Agatha Christie's body of work truly 'cozy', for better or worse: it just depends on what you're in the mood for.
Calamity Town = 3.4 starsThere Was An Old Woman = 2.8 starsEllery Queen author average = 3.1 stars.
***1/2.Believe it or not, this is the first novel I’ve ever read by Ellery Queen.
One of the first children has some problems with his sense of ‘honor,’ and challenges one of the twins from the second set of children to a duel.
Ellery Queen, who is now on the spot, decides that he will replace the live rounds in the pistols with blanks, thereby avoiding a killing.
It didn’t work; someone replaced his blank with a live bullet and the twin is shot and killed.
This was an easy read, and, for me, a good introduction to their novels.
en yleensä lue rikostarinoita. ei ole mun suosikki laji. mutta kunhan löysin kirjan kreeta-saarella muiden suomenkielisen kirjoiden kanssa ja jätin muita kirjoja sinne, oli pakko lukea sen. toivon, että myös tämä auttaisi suomen kielen taidon säilyttämiseen. juoni oli hyvää ja täytyy sanoa että varsin kirjan keski- ja loppuosa veivat mukaan. oli tarpeeksi nerokas, tarina eteni aluksi hitaasti, sitten nopeammalla tahdilla. hahmot olivat tärkeät, mutta eivät tehnyt niin suuren vaikutuksen minulle. pitkät selitykset elleryltä, miten sai rikokset selvittyä, olivat vähän tuskallisia. niitä tulikin monta. olisi pitänyt saada niitä vähemmällä sanoilla kasaan.
The title comes from the Mother Goose nursery rhyme, "There was an old woman who lived in a shoe," and indeed, she has quite a number of children.
Most of whom seem...unusual, most of whom are feuding, all of whom are living together due to a fortune the old woman has built...in shoes.
We also have the husband (#2), the husband's ne'er-do-well best friend, and a passel of long-suffering servants (emphasis on the "suffering") who must put up not just with the family, and abuse from the old woman who is a piece of work indeed, and incredibly odd murder #1, but the additional odd occurrences that come like clockwork.
The craziness moves quickly onto Thurlow challenging his younger half-brother to a duel and killing the competent man at dawn despite the attempts of Ellery to avert the tragedy.Insanity continues as more family members die.Finally Ellery begins to put together the motive and plot behind all the murders and death.I found this story difficult to get into at the beginning due to all the slang from the reporters and police officers covering the slander case.
Once I got to the Palace, the house where the old woman raised her children, I was quite enjoying the twists and turns and additions from Mother Goose.And I’m glad Ellery saved the innocent family members in the end, but the last chapter, could have been left off.
This Queen "mystery" is an unfortunate one where it's clear the author's knew the ending and then forced the poor constructed story.There really is no excuse for how bad this is.
Something happens very early that the Queen character would never have missed.
Of course, that oversight was what the authors had to use to continue the story.
This really comes down to the horrible , obvious ending that is written as if Queen was a brilliant genius.
Certainly this is the worse book I've read in the series.Nevertheless, if all could be ignored, the writing is good...Bottom line: i don't recommend this book.
3.5* I'm not sure if I ever read an Ellery Queen story before (maybe in the early 70s), but after getting through the first 15 pages, I really enjoyed this story.
Because this is an older mystery written in 1943, it was at first difficult for me to get adjusted to the writing style, language, etc.
But, once I got the hang of it, it was a great little mystery.
This has fun characters with lots of clues and twists for Ellery to puzzle out to help his Dad, a police Inspector, solve the 'whodunit' mystery.
Good little mystery with some humor and an entertaining story.
The setup was certainly interesting, but the craziness of the characters and settings started to feel a bit claustrophobia-inducing over time.
The writers came up with an interesting cast of characters, to be sure, and they might sustain interest if the writers hadn't brought their insanity and eccentric behavior into every possible paragraph.
And there were several important, fairly obvious clues that Queen missed, but instead of noticing those clues and working out the solution from there, he finally came to the right conclusion based on a tiny thing that he improbably noticed at the very last moment and that the readers hadn't been informed of before.
In this book a mean and nasty woman pits her children against each other and the world.
She is old and ill and uses her considerable power as the matriarch of a shoe manufacturing empire to manipulate her offspring.
When one brother kills another in a duel over "honor" it seems cut and dried.
When another brother is killed things get really complex.
Ellery sees the happenings as living out the children's poem "There was an old woman who,lived in a shoe...".
These Ellery Queen books are quite old and the slang is sometimes hackneyed, but the plot of this story has several twists and turns that make it enjoyable.
Queen likes to have odd, quirky characters in his books, and this one provides them in droves. Half of the Potts clan are eccentric, borderline lunatics. Half are level-headed, sane types. And it seems someone is killing off the sane ones. A good tale, although you have to swallow some unlikely events (would they really have let Cornelia Potts get off with just a slap on the wrist after nearly murdering Sgt. Velie?) And the "introduction" of Nikki Porter at the end seemed strange and tacked on for no good reason.
I bought this book because I've read mysteries set in earlier time periods and most set in the current day so I wanted to read one set in the 1940s or 50s (this one in the 40s). I also heard good things about Ellery Queen. I enjoyed the plot and the characters. The only thing about this one I didn't like was how most of the book is written like a normal novel, but a few scenes are written in the format of a movie script.
My first Ellery Queen novel. (I've scene the Jim Hutton series and read one of the short stories). Obvious ly a period piece now but once it got going it had its fair share of twists and turns. right up to the last couple of pages.
Listened to the audiobook. I think this was my first Ellery Queen book ever--not sure what took me so long. It was entertaining (if absurd, as many mysteries are) and had some enjoyable twists. I do have a gripe, though: those investigating the crimes were sometimes foolish and dense and missed obvious points, which had to be spelled out. I thought they should be a lot keener.
I had never read an Ellery Queen book before, so when I found this at a church fair book table, I figured it was an omen.
So, now I can say I've read Ellery Queen.
Some of the plot seemed a bit improbable, and for people so smart as Ellery Queen and his father, some of the things that happened wouldn't have happened if they had been thinking even reasonably clearly.
Ellery was there when the first murder happened.
He and Inspector Queen were both there when the second murder was done.
Both by the same family member.
Insane!But then half of this family seems insane and the other half normal.
The scary part is the insane side seems to be killing off the sane side.The Potts name is synonymous with shoes.
"Potts shoes are America's shoes.
The Old Lady is obsessed over this and so is one of her offspring.Ellery applies his brain power and solves this mystery, but it takes 3 go rounds to get all the loose ends.
Immensely wealthy and just as tyrannical, Mrs. Potts has three children by each of her two husbands. Her older children are, to be polite, eccentric; the younger children are "the sane ones." When her oldest son challenges one of his younger brothers to a duel, Ellery Queen and his father work out a method to prevent bloodshed. Unfortunately, it doesn't work. A second murder adds to Inspector Queen's dismay. But Ellery has a few more rabbits to pull out of his hat, including one of his most startling accusations.
Ellery Queen finds himself witnessing a murder that could be stopped but didn't, and he is left to unravel the mystery behind it. A story with a lot of turns that keeps the reader in suspense and eager to go on reading to see who is the murderer.
A solid, well-plotted whodunnit, very much of its day. A well thought-out solution that played mostly fair with the reader. Written with style to burn; the authors are not afraid to play with literary conventions at all, making this a lot of fun to read.
Enjoyed it, but I think the ending was prolonged past where it needed to be. A lot of explanation, not all of which turned out to be true, leading to an extra twist which wasn't all that surprising if you were following closely.
Murder mystery...not very good.
A hodge-podge of earlier characters and themes, it's still an interesting read in terms of the Queen character and the interests of the authors.
