https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/956986.Cherry_Ames_Visiting_Nurse
Wonderful nostalgia.
This series is absolutely recruiting propaganda for various types of nursing (nobody dies in Cherry's care in her 3 months as a visiting nurse as far as we can tell, and there are no bugs), and I can see it would have worked.
There's a lot of paternalism here-- the settlement house, the visiting nurse association telling people how they can help themselves-- and yet the VNA and the settlement houses did help people, and Cherry and her cohorts are depicted acting the way we want social services to act now towards the elderly, sick and lonely.
Cherry Ames, Visiting Nurse by Helen Wells in the eighth book in the Cherry Ames series. The first half of the book was cute, and I enjoyed reading it. I thought it was fun how all the Spencer girls were living together and I liked reading about their adventures with decorating their apartment. However, the second half which mostly involved the mystery was awful. The mystery was rushed and boring, and the conclusion was only on the last two pages. It left me with a bad impression of the book and overshadowed the good parts.2.5 stars out of 5.
Nancy gets a visiting nurse's job in Greenwich Village and has some difficulty in adjusting to the different environment.
Some of the other girls from Spencer are there and they all live together, although the place they live is is not really great and the janitor is very nasty.They are also working in a very poor part of the town so their job is quite difficult.
Kids make fun of her and no one seems to know what her story is.Cherry, though, gets to find out what the truth is about the woman and works to get her to overcome her problems and finally take her place in society.
This time Cherry moves to New York with her nurse friends to try her hand at being a visiting nurse.
It felt very much like "Call the Midwife," each nurse having their own area to cover, a home base where the nurses report to, and bringing the medical care to others' homes rather than to a clinic or hospital.
The mystery in this one is a woman who has stayed in her home for almost two decades, seeing and speaking to no one in all that time.
We also get to see an old love interest of Cherry's return.
Cherry joins several of her nursing friends in renting an apartment in Greenwich Village. As is obvious from the title, she is a visiting nurse. It was fascinating learning about nursing and social work from that time. And the people were poor but self sufficient. Naturally, Cherry comes in and changes everyone's life. Heartwarming and simple story.
Oh, how I longed to be Cherry Ames. I’m still shocked I didn’t become a nurse, just because of her.If I had girls, I'd buy these books for them. Cherry Ames was smart and hardworking and she didn't go all googly over every guy that passed.
Really good!
Enjoyed these books as a kid and am enjoying them again as an adult. Like the adventures that Cherry has. Looking forward to rest of the series.
Set in New York City in the 1940s with plenty of familiar, favorite characters, intrigue, and highlighting another facet of nursing, this was my 2nd favorite in the series so far.
My mother and older sister are both nurses, so whenever I would stumble on Cherry Ames books I would always try to read them. Helen Wells did well in showing the work that nurses do and the duties that they have. In spite of its being a children's book, however, the reality and importance of nursing is still recognized. In this book Cherry is a visiting nurse, and was instrumental in helping a social outcast regain trust in society once more.
A snapshot of community nursing in New York City in the late 1940's
enjoyable fast light read
