https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10920.Cold_Mountain
It's not for the faint of heart, however, as it's time consuming and requires a great deal of patience as Frazier takes his time with his descriptions of the landscape and the people as Inman, a soldier broken in spirit by the futility and waste of the Civil War, decides to walk home to Ada and his beloved Cold Mountain.
That is not to say that Frazier wastes the reader's time or goes off on unnecessary tangents (although for those who like quick narratives, it may seem that way), but he is in no hurry to rush the novel to its conclusion.
"Be strong, saith my heart; I am a soldier; I have seen worse sights than this." —Homer, The OdysseyHaving recently read The Odyssey, I was prompted by Goodreads friend, @JulieGrippo, to go on this journey - namely, Homer’s epic voyage transposed to the terrain of 19th-century North America.Inman (not as heroic as Odysseus), an army deserter wounded in the American Civil War, faces a treacherous, interminable journey home to his love, Ada (i.e. Odysseus’ Penelope).You can see from my five-star
—Homer, The OdysseyHaving recently read The Odyssey, I was prompted by Goodreads friend, @JulieGrippo, to go on this journey - namely, Homer’s epic voyage transposed to the terrain of 19th-century North America.Inman (not as heroic as Odysseus), an army deserter wounded in the American Civil War, faces a treacherous, interminable journey home to his love, Ada (i.e. Odysseus’ Penelope).You can see from my five-star rating that I was captivated by this book, but it could just have easily been demoted to three stars as it was very nearly hoisted by a petard of its own poetic prose.So I’ll just get my two gripes out of the way first, then we can all sit down and have a nice cup of tea…Gripe #1One of my pet peeves is seeing dialogue that isn’t neatly nested between some perfectly respectable speech marks.
Considering the widespread acclaim this book and its subsequent film adaptation have received, I'm reluctant to write a negative review.
This was absolutely the most boring book I have ever read.
I can't understand why the lovers at the center of the plot even like eachother, and in general I find the characters' motivation for doing anything completely inexplicable.
I don't wish to spoil the story (such as it is) for any would be readers, so I'll refrain from posting plot details.
Suffice it to say that the entire plot hinges on a series of events that conveniently take place, but seem to have no basis in reality.
Did not like it. Although it has an interesting structure and pretext, it is so intellectualized that it is hard to care about the characters at all. It seems like Frazier is more interested in showing off than in writing a gripping work of fiction.
This is a beautiful, understated, unsentimental Odyssey of quiet longing, endurance, and transformation."This journey will be the axle of my life."Inman's journey is across hundreds of dangerous miles, fleeing war and trying to get to where his love lives, four years after they parted.
a powerful argument against the notion that things just happen."CouplesAt least as important as the relationship between Ada and Inman, and possibly more interesting, is that between Ada (educated, city girl, now alone in the country) and Ruby (an illiterate who was an almost feral child).
There is no other."  is the refrain of a Cherokee curse that marks every step Inman takes.Yet, glimpses of his former character resurface in the way he takes the part of the less fortunate than himself, usually women in distress (like Sara - a teenage war widow with a small child and a pig: "There was nothing about her story remarkable other than that it was her life.").
As he leaves the lower lands and comes closer to the high hills, Inman's struggles become more desperate due to lack of food and exhaustion, yet his spirit becomes free of his flesh and soars: God, if I could sprout wings and fly, I would be gone from this place, my great wings bearing me up and out, long feathers hissing in the wind.
i nearly plucked my own eyes from my skull in frustration.the dullity was like another character in the story, grimly tugging at my sleeve to expound at length on the state of his bunion, and what it meant in relation to the larger struggle of humanity to achieve some fool thing or another.very, very slowly.
It won Oscars.But it cannot begin to capture the truly spectacular parts of this story because they are not the surface level narratives that make it onto the big screen.Before you can truly appreciate the quality of this book, you need to be familiar with at least Homer's Odyssey, Dante's Inferno, and parts of the Bible.
You need to be on guard for a depth of symbolism and complexity of foreshadowing and allusion that will boggle your mind.I always knew the movie didn't really get the book, but when my dad (who has not read the book) referred to it as "a chick flick" because he thought of it primarily as a love story (which it is, but not that kind), then I really realized what one misses when one has not read the book.
Yes. This book is best described as an epic...for those that felt it was too long or boring, have you ever read The Odyssey?
This is a book that took me close to a year to read as well, because I chose to walk away from it for a month sometimes and return to it when I needed a moment to escape from current times.
Bittersweet because I assumed Frazier had waited so long to write because he had one true novel in him, and his debut would be his only book.
I am cherishing this one, too!Sidenote: If you haven't read the book, I guess the movie is ok.
This book is the perfect example of timing being everything.
I tried to read this book when it was first released and I don't think I got passed the first 25 pages.
I tried again after I saw the movie with the same outcome.
It is a slow burn and you have to be patient and take your time but the reward is so worth it.
The story is beautiful and haunting and I am so glad that I kept trying and finally found the right time to read this.
This is a superb chronicle of a wayward soldier seeking escape from the Civil War. Frazier masterfully evokes the time period through his vivid prose of characters and the natural environment. The journey of Inman and this beautiful book still dwell in my thoughts 16 years later.
She is quite a contrast to the sophisticated and educated Ada. But, Ruby understood survival and the tricks of running a farm.There are quite a few interesting characters in the novel, both good and evil.
I would mention two – Sara, a young widow, a girl actually, who would selflessly offer whatever help she could to strangers, and Stobrod, Ada’s father, the irresponsible drunk who went to war and deserted a changed man – a man who will redemption through music.I was not very impressed with the chemistry between Inman and Ada. But, I liked one thing about them – both of them sought shelter and solace in books.
This book far exceeded my expectations. It was grim and beautiful. It's a historical novel that brings you to the time and place with such an easy touch...no awkward passages setting the stage, just outstanding storytelling. The characters are well developed and authentic in their complexity. Also, it rang true with my experience of life, meaning that not everything ended satisfyingly for the characters. I wholeheartedly recommend this book.
It is a story of the Civil War as it affected those who were marginal to the state and had least to gain from the war, the hard-scrabble farmers of the Blue Ridge Mountains.
A beautifully written work of fiction, in everything from the finely honed descriptions of the topography and botany and zoology of the Blue Ridge Mountains to the lovingly detailed descriptions of the preparation of Appalachian food to the brilliant evocations of loss and loneliness and resilience of those caught up directly in the violence of war as well as those who wait for them to come home.
I really shouldn't like this book as much as I do.
A historical romance?
Come on.
Frazier's prose is in the tradition of that poetic backwoods style that you might find in some Faulkner or in the films of Terrence Malick and David Gordon Green.
Definitely the product of a learned man trying to sound like he's from the sticks, equal parts Old Testament fire-and-brimstone and rootsy colloquialism.
His story is ambitious in its attempts to convey feelings of the grandeur of America, smouldering passions that impossible distances can't dull, and the world-weariness felt by every generation as soon as it realized the scope of evil in humanity.
Sometimes you need to read something like this.
Slavery wasn't so bad.
We weren't fighting for slavery.
The war was not our fault.
Slavery was not our fault.
Nothing is ever anyone's fault, except for the damned meddling Yankees who started the war for no reason at all!
and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah!But at the same time there are plenty of groovy new lies, too.
And the new lies are custom-made for an aging baby-boom generation that never quite outgrew its own monumental self-pity.
He's empty-eyed Peter Fonda, on the road like Kerouac, looking for America and not finding it anywhere.
I didn't like this book very much.

The story itself is enjoyable, but what I liked even more was the detailed description of life in the civil war era.
We have the idea from many movies and books that the south in the Civil War was all plantations and cotton, lovely ladies and dashing gentlemen.
This south is something that Margaret Mitchell simply did not acknowledge, and it is probably much more true to what the majority if southerners lives were like during the time.
I enjoyed the movie mostly as a star-crossed love story.
The book I enjoyed for it's descriptive narrative as much as for the story.
I read this book before the movie was planned (at least to my knowledge), and I loved it from the beginning.
It probably isn't the type of book you can read with lots of distraction around you, it requires a quiet setting where you can immerse yourself in the beautiful writing.
Set in the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains the story of the Civil War is told as it relates to the lives of those who live in this rural area, and the devastating effect it has on everyone.
However, the story is much more about love, forgiveness and hope than just the despair of the seemingly endless days until Inman returns.
There are so many good reviews on this book.
Cold Mountain is forever 5 Stars for me.
This is a book I can read many times.
Inman, the wounded Confederate soldier has released himself from further fighting and is walking back to Cold Mountain.
The pages flew by as I lost myself in learning to survive at Black Cove or trekking through the Blue Ridge mountains.
At its’ most basic, this is a story of a soldier leaving the horrors of war in search of his one love and a woman’s journey from dependent to independent.
After barely having time to strike up a romance, North Carolina farmboy Inman is sent off to fight in the Amerian Civil War, leaving high society Charleston-bred Ada at home with a father who soon dies, forcing her to run their large farm and fend for herself in a world previously ignored by her as she focused on her literature, art, and music.Their stories are told in alternating chapters.
In one chapter we read of Inman's Homeric trek, wounded in the neck, from a North Carolina hospital back to Cold Mountain where Ada dwells, wondering along the way if she'll even have him, and encountering a wild mix of characters and grim situations.
The best experience I ever had reading a book.
I recommend reading it in the winter, but whatever.
The winter I read it was the coldest & saddest winter I have ever experienced.
The book, taking place in the late 1800's, reminded me that some things cannot ever change with the times: Struggle.
Heartbreak.
Love.
Adversity.
Fear.
Uncertainty.
The human inclination to survive.
That said, though, this was not a depressing book.
Somehow, it gave me an unexpected and strange kind of faith in myself, and perhaps, in the universe in general.
That's saying a lot, in my book.
I enjoyed how her characterization was so vivid and memorable and also appreciated the great atmospheric quality this novel held.Normally the author narrating their own book really adds an extra spark to the story, but in this case, I wish the publisher would have utilized a professional narrator.
Had I read this one traditionally instead of listening to it, it may have resulted in a higher rating.
The author reads in a very rhythmic, monotonous tone that is unwavering regardless of what is currently developing in the plot, and detracts from the story.
I look forward to reading other books by this author, particularly Nightwoods.
I hated this book.
It's not that it isn't well written, it's not that the characters aren't done well.
In the words of a friend of mine when her husband talked her into reading it..."Why would I like this thing?"Some will not agree with me, and that's fine, but I have lived through relatively tough times, I've lost loved ones, I've struggled for something only to have it fall through.
These are not my leisure time activities.
This is another book in the "life is hard and then you die" school.
I gave it 1 star, there are well written parts of it, but for me the rest just isn't worth it.
She sees the harvest."Ruby said that she did, and Ada asked if Ruby thought Stobrod had written the song.
Ruby said there were many songs that you could not say anybody in particular made by himself.
A song went around from fiddler to fiddler and each one added something and took something away so that in time the song became a different thing than what it had been, barely recognizable in either tune or lyric.
Everything added meant something lost, and about as often as not the thing lost was preferable to the thing gained, so that over time we'd be lucky if we just broke even.
Any thought otherwise was empty pride."I liked this book.
I loved this book!Favourite quotes:The woman looked as if she thought Inman spoke the greatest foolishness she had ever heard.
Marrying a woman for her beauty makes no more sense than eating a bird for its singing.
But it's a common mistake nonetheless.In his experience, great wounds sometimes healed, small sometimes festered.
The why of it, like much in life, offered little access to logic.And then she thought that you went on living one day after another, and in time you were somebody else, your previous self only like a close relative, a sister or brother, with whom you shared a past.
In this book you get to see the war from both sides: Inman, a young man from Cold Mountain, goes off to fight for probably glory but instead he is wounded and left to die on the battlefield.
When he does, he decides that the war is not all it was cracked up to be and he doesn't want to face such odds again.Meanwhile, Ada, whose father was a preacher from Chicago serving the Cold Mountain congregation.
Ada's journey was growth as she learned what she needed to live and the value of a good friend but it was also almost always a struggle.
When I was thinking of what to say about The Namesake, which I liked alot, I started thinking that maybe we need an asterisk for books that are truly special to us, that knock our socks off.
(Along with Bel Canto, The Fountain Overflows, and The Golden Compass) This is probably my third reading of Cold Mountain, and seemed a logical extension of our spring break trip to the Smokies.
I know that a book will be important to me when I start to slow down as I get close to the end.
Beautiful writing and storytelling. The writing is very detailed but it is so worth taking your time with this one.
This book proved special to me for this same reason for it was a long love letter to nature.
Written in the back drop of the American Civil War and taking its cues from Homer's epic of one man's journey back to his lady love is  Cold Mountain .
Death's presence in this tale is like a traveller who walks with you all through your wanderings and then with a sense of finality remind you that the sand in the hourglass has run out !While I loved the writing and the content in the book, the plot is very much common place.
