https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15018.Conversations_With_God
I ovo bi bio završetak razgovora s Bogom..
Ponoviti neke stvari, produbiti neke ideje iz prve dvije knjige..
Te malo dublje ući u neke novije teme.
Za ponavljanja sam uvijek (ponavljanje je majka znanja) i stvarno su dobro došla, jer čovjek zaboravi neke sitnice..
No, ovaj put dublje o temi koja vidim meni još uvijek nije na istoj valnoj, jer bih rekla da mi je prekompleksno.
Čitkala sam u pauzama između drugih naslova, prije spavanja, laganini..
Tako mi je odgovaralo!Sigurna sam da će ova trilogija nakon nekog vremena biti ponovno pročitana.
Od mene preporuke, no imajte na umu da je ovo doslovno razgovor s Bogom!
It was wonderful to read a book that illustrated almost every belief that I have about the universe so completely. This book describes the meaning of life. Read it now or find out eventually in another life.
Mesmerising!Even before I had finished the previous two books in this series, I had already read the part in this book about highly evolved beings (HEBs) and life on other planets, because it answered a question I had repeatedly asked myself ever since I was a child i.e. was there life on other planets?
Many of these other inhabited planets have highly evolved civilisations and I found the descriptions of these societies absolutely mesmerising!
HEBs communicate absolutely truthfully and telepathically (in fact, you can tell how evolved a society is by its dependance or otherwise on words for communication); there is no concept of ownership or loss; they share everything they have; and their children set their own curriculum at school.
I read all three books of this series somewhere around 2001... and it said so many things that I had felt, but could never find any literature that had the same thoughts and feelings. It also expanded my thinking... and really, really made me OK with everything!This series of books came out around the time that a lot of the "new thought" books and leaders starting showing themselves, at the turn of the century. A must read and addition to anyone's spiritual library!
These books (Conversations With God 1, 2, 3) are the books that got me into spirituality, and that was the doorway to becoming me! I was fascinated by this series and felt a connection I had never felt to anything or anyone before. As a teenager who was at the time, looking for something to connect to this series of books really helped me!
so far pretty amazing. i like this god.
There isn't a doubt in my mind that I was led to find this series of books, and it couldn't have happened at a more perfect time.
You need to read this book with an open mind.Something happens to you and you get really mad and you lash out at God in some way.
You really should start by reading the first in the series.The main message from "God" in the book is to remember Who You Are and Who You Choose To Be. If you make all your life decisions based on that idea you will lead a more fulfilled life.
Wow...Chapters 3 and 12 blew me away....I have read the whole trilogy ....The first book was nice....I didn't care fore the second book (it just reviewed the first book)....But this book...Book III....was beyond what I expected.....Sure there was some repetition, but it got the point(s) across.....I read these books from my local library, now I have to buy them for myself....Definite re-reads
It can be in several places at once.We should only think of good and righteous things, and not on negativity and darkness.Whatever we think of is what we create and experience, though there is a time lapse between thought and creation.There is no time but now and no place but here.God repeats things over and over so that we better can take them in.Everything that occurs is the outward physical manifestation of our innermost “thoughts, choices, ideas and determinations.”He tells us that after death we will “instantly and automatically be surrounded by beings of high consciousness – and by high consciousness itself”.Though Hell does not exist, people can experience it.After death you will experience exactly what you expect and choose to experience.
Hope you get what i am saying or in simple terms THE WORD is the en-grafted word of God and words are those formulated by man without God's guidance.Or may be that is how 'God' revealed it to him, i wont judge for the bible tells us in Mathew 7;7'jugde not that you might not be judged for the way you judge others will be the same that you will be judged'All that am saying is that one should always be ware of all that is put before their eyes coz you might not know what is right from that which is wrong therefore i encourage all Christians to always seek God's guidance and help not only when in trouble/problems but also in times of not understanding what the truth is.
God is truth,love and joy.
God is a process to be experienced,not a person, place, or thing.
In order for the human collective consciousness to awaken and come into being and find peace on our planet we must observe fully what works and what doesn't work, communicate truthfully, and choose wisely.I absolutely LOVE the messages of this book and all of the books in the series.
The dialogue gets a little much for me as it is very repetitive to help the author's understanding, and the author tends to sensationalize what God is saying, which I think does a disservice to the dialogue.
I read books 1,2,3 and 4 of this series and was fascinated at the pure intellectual skill in Neale's writing style.
One needs to read his books slowly in order to absorb the sheer depth of his concept line by line.
Naturally, if you read the first in his series, you read the next and the next because you have the innate sense that he is leading you to his version of truth and have earned the right to learn it, whether you subscribe to it or not.
You just know that whether his theories are right or wrong, that this is the most fascinating read you will ever undertake.
I read all the Conversations With God books a few years ago, and loved them. Anything that makes you question the things you believe and why, and that resonates with you is a real treasure.
I am God I wrote this book for you and packed it with awesome ideas.Instead of Have-Do-Be. First Be, then Do, then Have Enjoy Death - both yours and other people's death. Death is freedom.+ others but we don't want to spoil this book for you.. so:Enjoy!
Sondan başladım:)
The god of this book is full of contradictions. For example, "god" first says "{there is no such thing as wrong" and later says it is "wrong" for parents to raise their children.
It's staring at the sun on the one hand---impossible without looking away lest you go blind---and having one of the warm light LED lamps on the other.In fact, I can easily see pieces of Conversations with God be used 200 years from now in the same way the Bible is quoted today, with the difference that the former draws from profound sources and delivers meaning and advice that can be useful to people living in the 21st century instead of the trite, hollow, more traditionalist than insightful Old Testament passages that so often make their appearances in American media and try to pass themselves off as spiritual---and which frankly annoy me to no end.To drive the point home, even though I did thoroughly enjoy CwG#3 in audiobook format unlike the first two which I read on my Kindle, I must say I would recommend reading the books instead of listening to them.
Conversations with God: An Uncommon dialogue, Vol. 3This is how my reading of this trilogy has progressed, over the last ten years.
Finally, have read book 3 again to the end.
And, I think it is a fantastic book with really empowering messages.
It helps hugely to have read the previous two volumes so that some of the core messages are familiar.
A book written by/through God?' and dismiss it on that score.
But I suggest you read it, and then decide whether the material it contains is helpful to you.

It is definitely a wonderful read through. Very nice book, which speaks about the insight of the Universal Love. The relationship with cosmology and to this astric body. I was infact able to relate somany bible verse when I came across concepts and their explanation. The explanation and the characteristic of Highly Evolved Beings(HEB) is really an insight of how an ideal human being should be. Above all the last chapter just blew my mind off explaining the Time Space Continuum concluding that everything which you see and possess is not real. Amazing book to read.
This trilogy (book 1, 2 and 3) is one of the most intersting book I read in the last 2 years. Neale Walsch questions our preconceptions on everything.Every one should have read these 3 books. It will surprise many and force you to put things into perspective and re evaluate your convictions.I enjoyed all 3 books very much.
very interesting and makes you feel as if God is speaking directly to you. He could be faking it but I find it hard to know why or how. I just watched the dvd last night about the story of his life. I didn't know he was homeless for a while.
I do not recommend this book. This book will find you when you’re ready.
The last of the three volumes. Should be taken in totality with the other two volumes in order to appreciate its full spiritual viewpoints.
Book 3 brings the series to a well worth waiting for end. This series of book (1,2,&3)will definitely shift your perspective on God...unless it don't :-)
If you don't want to read the 1st and 2nd...you could just read this. It recaps the first two and adds a lot as well. Wonderful, compelling, and profound. Read with an open mind and open heart.
words cannot explain; it is a awakening for me; my life can never be the same after reading Conversations with God, Neale Donald Walsch.
But you start realising that certain books come to you at the moment of your readiness and openness; those that you can handle, those that widen your perceptions, those that still make you have a bit of a panic attack at 4 a.m. but I have learned to love those heart mending palpitations because they just mean adjustment to concepts that were never within my breathing and living system.
After all, it is a given that if you bear a child you're the only one in charge of raising ,educating and passing on your life's acquired knowledge and experiences to your offspring.
Rather, it is a matter of experience and knowledge of life in general that has been consolidated into the word "wisdom".It is therefore only wise to leave the child raising to the elders.
Immature parents only pass on to their offspring what they have acquired in knowledge from their parents.
Why do "immature" parents Instil fear and guilt in their children towards subjects they are ethically unsure of such as sexual relationships.
Our culture is primitive because we still think in terms of "mine" and "yours." I do agree with all that I've mentioned here, in principle, but how could Walsch know for sure about alien lifeforms from the Holy Spirit?
It's one thing to listen to one's Spirit for the answers to questions, but this is a matter of fact or fiction.
I believe we all have God's spirit within us, but that doesn't mean we are all prophetic or psychic, does it?Pages: 377; Publication Date: 1998; Part of my book collection.
