https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323589.Carrots_Love_Tomatoes
Because someday I will have a garden; Oh yes, it will be mine.
While the folksy tone of this book is kind of charming, I found it to be a frustrating read, particularly as a new and inexperienced gardener.
The book seemed a bit riddled with inconsistencies - like for example mentioning carrots as good companions in the "tomatoes" section but then not mentioning tomatoes in the "carrots" section.
I also would have appreciated a bit more detail about the basic ideas behind companion planting.
Why put two plants together as "companions" when they have completely different watering needs?
That seems counter to other gardening advice I've read.
I started out using it as a reference for companion planting in my garden, focusing only on the first few chapters about vegetables and herbs.
The information in some of the entries is lacking at times, and I had to search out a vegetable or herb in the index, only to find it did not have its own entry but was only mentioned in another plant's entry.
While I wouldn't call this a must-read, it definitely has some good information on gardening and an array of plants.
This book has a lot of helpful tips and pieces of advice, but they are all buried throughout sometimes random articles in the encyclopedic format.
Watermelons do well with potatoes, but don't plant potatoes with any melons.
(Inferring from a few vague comments and reading the Latin names, this might be because watermelons aren't in the same family as other melons, cukes and squashes?
It's not explained well.) There are a few topic-specific chapters in the back which were helpful, including a sketch of the author's garden.
But all in all, I'm glad I read it and it's a useful reference for specific purposes.
For those of us who have never seen where a carrot would prefer to grow in the wilds, this book allows us to plant companion plants that help each other out.I really don't like the idea of adding any sort of sprays or fertilizers to my gardens, especially the vegetable and herb beds.
So, compost and companion planting are my personal solutions for most "problems" encountered in the suburban garden plot.You can read this like a bed-time story (cover to cover), or just flip through,stopping at the illustrations.
Choose your desired herbs or veggies, then go to the Index to find out more about their preferred buddies.
I picked this up at the library years ago and actually tried the principles of companion planting.
I now always plant marigolds by my potatoes because the scent keeps yucky bugs away.Some other plant companions I enjoyed were carrots and tomatoes because carrots are a root plant and tomatoes grow above ground; pumpkins planted around the corn--to prevent racoons from wanting to traipse through the stickery vines to eat the corn; and peas, spinach, and onions, since they harvest at different times and can be planted quite close together.There are some combinations to avoid as well, but I don't remember what.
I guess I'll have to pick up the book again.
After years of wanting to have a garden, I finally dove in and attempted to do some container gardening since I didn't officially have a backyard.
And I made it one of my goals for the year to read more gardening books to learn the Do's and Don'ts.
It is packed full of useful information on companion planing, an ancient technique where you plant certain plants together that are beneficial to each other.
A must have for anyone wanting to start learning about companion planting.
This book was in such high demand at the library, I had to wait six weeks to check out a copy. It is an interesting philosophy of which plants do well together, and which plants you should plant far away from everything else (fennel does not love anything, apparently). It is hard to give the book a rating without having tested out its advice, but I plan to put dill where I harvested radishes, and next year will try some of their suggestions to keep cabbages healthy. A lot of things love tomatoes, it seems, including basil and carrots.
This book is a bit higgeldy piggeldy organizationally but the information is excellent. I find myself opening it every spring to remind myself which plants like /dislike eachother. I agree with another reviewer who suggested that this book would be wonderful with a chart or two. It would save so much fumbling around. The author is a woman in her twilight years with many decades of experience.**just found out she passed away in 1998 at age 89
I would use this mainly as a reference book. I has information for vegetables, flowers, shrubs, trees, fruit, and herbs. I like that it seems to have quite a bit of information on natural pest control.
Though not completely applicable to my region, there are tons of great tips for using companion planting. I read another book focused on what thrives in my region and then this one to help plan out what I should plant together. I think that even gardeners who are way more experienced than I am will be able to find helpful information. I'll keep this in my library as a resource to refer back to when necessary.
Will probably want to have this book nearby when planning the plot layout. A little less useful than I had hoped because while it says what to plant nearby and avoid planting together, there's not a ton of explanation of why. So I can follow the directions, but I won't really understand why it works.
I use this book every time I plan my vegetable garden for the year. I do wish it were just a little bigger, with information about a few more herbs and vegetables, but it has been so helpful. I recommend this to any gardener!
Really enjoyed this and will use it as a reference book for all my gardening questions.
Lena loves allopathy. Allopathy loves plants. Plants love allopathy. And so on.
Extremely helpful - I planted my garden, for the first time, based off the information from this book. Informative and very well organized.
I liked why planting this near that was helpful. I took notes in my gardening journal. Even some critter help.
Very good guide to companion planting for growing vegetables.
Muy util, excelente recurso para los que quieran organizar un huerto eficiente...
Gardening is my passion. That being said, if I had only one gardening book this would have to be it. I had been growing my own food for decades and when I read this book many mysteries were solved and my gardens started to flourish at their fullest potential. Happy growing!
I would say that it takes a couple years of applying the strategies to figure out how to make it work, and Riotte states quite clearly that it ultimately depends on what works for the individual gardener.
And I'm still figuring out how to integrate a companion strategy with rotation.Finally, as with all books of folk wisdom, a caveat: a lot of the tips here are based on observation and untested.
Overall, I have personally found this book useful in spite of its flaws and often refer to it when I'm planning my garden for each year.
A trifle haphazard in organization and a bit of repeat information (for example if you look up tomatoes, you discover they love carrots but have an ongoing feud with the cabbage family - so you can find information going either direction).What makes this book the best is how fun it is to read.
With Carrots Love Tomatoes, you start reading the next entry, and then maybe jump to another part of the book because you want to find out about this other plant you were thinking of and that leads to ...
How have I gone so long without such a must-have, classic book?
There are no flashy photographs in this book nor dreamy prose.
If only I had known last year that dill may affect carrot growth in a negative way, I may have ended up with carrots that weren't the size of cocktail weenies.
If you don't plant the right guys next to each other, you'll end up with HBO-worthy fighting over nutrients that will prevent one or both of them from flourishing.
A great little reference book from which I learned quite a bit to apply to this gardening season alone.
We had a bumper crop of little tomatoes and I planted bee balm and nasturtium throughout.
I also really went to town in using and remembering to care for the couple of comfrey bushes (?) our son planted a few years ago and put leaves in a pail to break down and be used as high nitrogen fertilizer and/or compost starter-invigorator.
My favourite projects book this gardening season and a leg up for next year's garden.
This is the seminal work on companion planting, a must for anyone interested in organic gardening or for anyone who wants to be a more efficient, more knowledgeable gardener. Using the book as a guideline, with companion planting you are able to let the plants do the work of soil improvement, insect repellent, bolstering disease resistance, and improving crop yields and flavor. This book also includes recommendations for planning a companion garden and instructions for making your own soil amendments, foliar sprays, and repellents for insects, rodents, and other critters of garden mischief and malfeasance.
This is a great gardening book.
If you have a small space or a huge garden you will find helpful hints on what plants to place next to each other and which should have some space so they can all grow well.
It covers herbs, vegetables, flowers and even fruit trees.
Some of the suggested plants will even help prevent bugs from being attracted to your other vegetable plants.
It does include some recipes to mix different bug repellents from some of the leaves and flowers of some of the different herbs too.
I'm definitely going to give these plants a try!
This is a way fun garden book to read.
I liked it.
She is like talking to a funny southern grandma who has all sorts of tidbits of information about plants.
I think that I want to buy this as a reference for certain things.
I only gave it 3 stars because as a real "garden reference" book it is more on the folk wisdom side-- which is still pretty interesting, but not one you would use as a complete guide for your garden.
I wish that we could grow some of the plants she talks about here in our climate!
Very interesting information in this book about plants, weeds, flowers, and vegetables. I had no idea that alfalfa's roots can good as deep as almost 100 feet. That is what some researcher's have found. For Lavender, to get it's best quality of fragrance and oil it needs to be grown in poor soil. Hardly anything likes to be grown my Strawberry's, but Carrots and Tomatoes do like each other. Haha! I'll find out. I did plant carrots and tomatoes together, so now the experiment has begun.....for this year.
The sources section lists plant and seed nurseries exclusively, while the suggested reading section recommends general organic gardening books. I was hoping to see some controlled field studies listed as I've browsed through inconclusive research by scientists interested in the supposed phenomena of companion planting-- anything that can improve agriculture can get some funding. But without even a hint of a credible source means that this book is just a compendium of hearsay and unsubstantiated claims.
Covers more than just companion planting. Not necessarily a book to read like a novel, more of a reference book with headings for each vegetable, herb, and flower chosen as topics. Some plants are covered more than once as this is a combination of two separate books. My personal bias thinks the author gives too much accolade to hybrids at the expense of open-pollinated and landrace varieties, although she certainly is not against the latter. The graphics and garden plan drawings could be clearer; the hand-drawings are difficult to read requiring a bit of effort.
