https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101255.On_Food_and_Cooking
This book is endlessly fascinating. Interesting tidbits McGee's has taught me: raw pineapple will curdle milk, but cooked pineapple will not. Some of our fellow humans will be repulsed by cheese because of an instinctual reaction to fermented foods. See? Fascinating!McGee's contains necessary information that you can not get from a recipe on practically every dish and ingredient known to man. This is the kind of book that will sit next to the stove, dog-eared and grease-spattered, eternally useful, until Personal Chef Robots become fixtures in all of our homes.
From Plato’s views on cooking to electron micrographs of cheese to a description of how eggs form in a chicken’s body to the history of beer and chocolate, this book offers an intoxicating wealth of food information, trivia, and science.
Did you know that the cell walls of mushrooms aren’t made up of cellulose, like plants, but rather of chitin, the carbohydrate-amine complex that makes up the outer skeletons of insects?
Practical information, like how to tell stale eggs from fresh, is liberally sprinkled amid the science and anecdotes.
Even if you don’t cook and only rarely eat, this is a fascinating book.
They presume lots of knowledge on the part of the reader and they give directions that theoretically make the food what it's supposed to be, rarely explaining WHY you want to cook this meat at temperature x or mince this thing instead of slice, or whatever.
And while it has not exactly unlocked the black art of cooking for me, it's a great resource book to have in the kitchen.
Any time I'm using a technique or ingredient I haven't used before, I consult Good Harry McGee. And it's a pretty well-written and researched book too (with lots of great historical context), and as such, it's fun to pick up and read random sections from, on occasion.
The 2nd edition.
thesis look sheepish.This is definitely a reference book to be laid open on a table and lovingly dipped into by an enquiring mind.
Not held open in the hands: too heavy.
However, I’ll keep my (much smaller) copy of the 1st edition, because I want to follow how McGee’s thinking has modified and changed over the twenty years between 1984 and 2004.Every school library ought to have a copy on their shelves.
How better to turn children onto the joys of science than a book on ‘edible science’?
This is an invaluable resource when your kids ask "does THIS cheese have mold in it" or "why does it all stick together if you cook it too long" or when you want to know what makes espresso different from coffee. Is is not about cooking, but about why and how cooking works, about where the flavor is in the spices and why the tomato ripens, what makes a sauce a sauce instead of gravy or soup, and what nougat really is. The style is accessible but unafraid of chemistry. A wonderful companion to the cookbooks you read for recipes.
I think I am going to be currently reading this for a very very long time. Its 800 pages, small print, massive index (essential) and bibliography. Human imagination and cultural complexity regarding food being as it is, not even 800 pages will be enough, so I dont think it has EVERYTHING on food but it does have practically everything of the most common kind, in a wide global way. First thing - this is not a recipe book and it is a pretty serious book. You can use it as dictionary, using the ver
I think I am going to be currently reading this for a very very long time.
Human imagination and cultural complexity regarding food being as it is, not even 800 pages will be enough, so I don´t think it has EVERYTHING on food but it does have practically everything of the most common kind, in a wide global way.
I have been reading about cooking, and experimenting since I was a child, I own too many cookbooks to easily confess, and this is finally a book which puts things in context, which makes me understand the science of why this or that, put into cultural and historical context.
On Food and Cooking is one of those few books that I can drop on a table, let it fall open to any page, and read for the next hour.
Nearly anything you might want to know about the history, etymology, and process of gastronomy is covered in this volume, but even that is too dry a description to really explain how fun it is.
Want to know why there are so many Sugar Loaf mountains around the U.S. countryside?
Want to read a description of all the kinds of distillation there are?
But right next to all of them should be On Food and Cooking.
It would be a stretch to say that I am a cook or a 'foodie', but I imagine that every culinary master in America must own this book.This is NOT a cookbook -- it's a guide to food, a dynamic explanation about where your food comes from, the science behind how it cooks/blends/rises and how preparation techniques impact taste. It's a book that is hard to peg, and not one that you'll read cover-to-cover in one sitting. The writing is succinct but not tedious to follow, and every chapter packs in a spectrum of interesting facts.
At $25, it's rather more palatable (pun intended!) than Modernist Cuisine's $675, and was referenced in the same New Yorker article. According to GnuCash, I spent more money last year on cigarettes than groceries; changing that seems a noble enough objective. I'll likely start by stocking pepper.btw, wenger, i dig your taking up of my "*-acquire*" bookshelf semantics!
Being a total food nerd, this book was heaven for me. I am curious about the chemistry, preparation and anthropology of food and McGee has all of those bases covered. If you cannot handle information purveyed to you in a dry, textbook-like manner this is not the book for you. However if you want to know everything there is to know about eggs, milk, herbs, veggies, meat and more and why they all work together so well (or don't) you definitely need to pick this one up!
But if you read this book from cover to cover, you probably should skip some of it, too.
And it makes for a good reference book, if you ever feel like learning about some given food or cooking process.The main takeaway I got from this book is the sheer magnitude of how much we as a species shape our food for our diverse and often competing needs and desires, and have for thousands of years.
Organic vs processed is such a gross oversimplification, and means very different things from one type of food to the next.I read the ebook on my Kindle Fire, and there were some issues with the formatting.
Who knew that food science could keep you up late at night? This is a can't-put-it-down explanation of how cooking, pickling,preserving, fluffing, rising, kneading and all manner of other cooking techniques work. I return to McGee's explanations again and again. I am a better cook and a more appreciative eater as a result. Bravo Mr. McGee!
I'm actually reading it for my thesis, what with McGee being a pre-eminent food scientist and all, and it's so much more pleasurable to read than your average science textbook.
Describing the science behind food - why does bread rise?
- McGee takes you not only through the science but also into some of the history, and this is a large part of its charm.
Only bad point from my current perspective is that it's so easy to get distracted by other non-thesis related topics, like how to make cakes and how beer works.
Very comprehensive book for the average person who is really into food.
It goes into the historical and scientific background of various foods.
The writing style is easy to follow, so there's no getting lost with this book!I found the author's writing style to be a little too flowery, but it may just be that I am not enough of a food connoisseur to understand some of his descriptions.
For example, he describes buffalo milk as being barnyardy and reminiscent of mushrooms and freshly-cut grass.
These descriptions seem a bit subjective to me, but what do I know?
Still a bit dull for reading on your own though.
When I ruined cream sauce by cooking it at a too hot temperature (so that instead of thickening, the cream just broke down into water and oil), I thought I needed to know a little more about exactly what was going on when I cooked. I asked my brother (scientist and cook) to get me something like that for my birthday, and he sent this book. Lots of interesting information for cooking geeks. I am not sure yet if it has improved my cooking, but it's still fun to read. Most interesting to me: the sections on nuts and bread.
Such a fun and interesting book. As a foodie and a scientist I appreciate his approach to cooking and food. I also love the sense of joyful curiosity that suffuses the book. I was lucky enough to attend a talk by Harold McGee and he is still just as charming and enthusiastic as he seems in the book. He had so many interesting facts to impart that I wished the talk was three times as long. I'd love to sit down and chat with him.
Finally! I'm not sure how many people read this book cover to cover, but I did! I learned a lot about food and cooking food and feel this has already helped me become a better cook. Probably too dry for most people, though, especially if you're not into the minutia of cooking... down to how atoms and molecules react. I learned about this book from the HarvardX class on EdX called: Science & Cooking. A great class if you're into cooking and/or science.
This is the most hardcore, badass book about food I have ever seen. Any time you want to know what you're actually doing when you're in the kitchen, this will spell it out for you. If the OED had a one night stand with your O-Chem textbook while watching to food network, this would be their lovechild.
This book is a MUST for the kitchen. I was never one for math, chemistry or any sort of science until I started cooking. This book is a great resource and packed tight with incredibly interesting food knowledge.
If you love cooking and want to know the minutiae of the science behind cooking, then this book is for you.
Great reading about a lot of facts on cooking, or debunking a lot of urban legends such as 'sealing' the meat in order to preserve tenderness.
Of course i did not read it all, used it selectively as reference.
The finest book on food science and food history on the market!I will never actually be done reading as I go back to it all the time.
tutto ma proprio tutto quello che si vuole sapere sul cibo, dal punto di vista storico, gastronomico, biologico...
"Cooking is applied chemistry, and the basic concept of chemistry-molecules, energy, heat, reactions-are keys to a clearer understanding of what our foods are and how we transform them." This book it has an immeasurable value.The author did a huge research in order to write it.
Also you can find good tips and tricks which you can apply it at home or in a professional kitchen.It should be a must read for all the professional cooks.
Would read in future the other two books from Harold Mcgee:Keys to good cooking and The curious cook.
For lovers of Cooks Illustrated and America's Test Kitchen. This the best of materialist explorations of food preparation. McGee gets into the foundational molecular details and interactions of ingredients and explores basic components like sauces and dough. This is not fussy though - it's imminently readable, and he covers both technique and historical trends. I've been reading straight through, but I'm glad it's in the library, so I can re-read as I delve into new cooking practices.
Excellent read! Very interesting and informative while balancing readability. Does a great job of incorporating science, food history, and use. I wish they would publish updates regularly but the topic is so broad that it's probably a mammoth task. I am typically a fiction reader and have been able to work my way through this which is unusual for me.
Cookbooks tell you the "how" of food preparation; this book tells you the "why." Namely, why particular techniques are required for certain foods, and specifically, why things go wrong. If you are a professional cook or an interested experimenter (like me, I am a food historian in training), this is an important book for your shelf.
An excellent guide to food for people just starting to understand the why of cooking. Having spent a life in kitchens (home and professional) there wasn't enough new to entice me to finish it, but that doesn't mean I can't appreciate what's here.
Any hobbyist cook or anyone interested in food science should read this. Every time I try something new I read up on the chapter about that food. Eg...Making sourdough for the first time? Check out the detailed breakdown of the importance of fermentation time of the starter.
