https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/351985.334
To share a glimpse of what a reader is in for, below are commentary on two of the chapters: first, a longer one, a tale about college student Birdie Ludd in battle with the forces of darkness; and the second, a shorter tale, a vivid sketch of an outing at a most unusual art exhibit: THE DEATH OF SOCRATESBirdie Ludd has finally made it out of high school (P.S. 141) into one of New York City’s colleges only to sit in class listening to a professor on a TV yack nonstop about the life of Dante and how nearly everyone according to the Italian author’s Inferno will be tormented in hell, most certainly all the Jews.
Like most of Thomas Disch, this book is criminally underrated.
It's a series of episodes centering around the same set of characters, living in a dystopian near-future New York City; it's hard to know whether to call it a loosely-structured novel, or a tightly integrated collection of short stories.
Another one I found particularly memorable is about a woman who falls in love with her social worker, after he reads her a passage from a novel featuring a sex scene on a sofa with a defective leg.
I doubt that Michael Bay has ever considered filming it, and it's not the sort of book that's likely to leave you smiling.
New Wave SF became a feature of the counterculture, and I’d like to explain all that but I’m exhausted thinking about it.
After several hot sf novels and many littler sf stories Disch appears to have discovered that there isn’t any money in sf, which I think anyone could have told him & so swerved into horror.
I think Thomas Disch had a great novel in him but didn’t get round to writing it.
The first half of this are somewhat interconnected short stories in the not too distant future which range from entertaining (Bodies), disorienting (Everyday Life), strangely sweet (Emancipation), chilling (Death of Socrates), and phenomenal (Angouleme).
The second half are vignettes about a family living in a lower income housing project of a not too distant dystopian future New York.
At times it can be very challenging with little explanation provided as to how this society came to be, but that's part of the reason why its so appealing: Disch allows the readers to make their own interpretations of all the raw data provided within 334's pages.

And when one can't buy in, one kills oneself (as Disch did in 2008).So, this novel starts out with a country dominated by standardized tests--and this was published in 1974!
Except in Disch's world, you need a high score in order to be allowed to breed.
But what happens when one was insured for a proper cremation by unknown relatives and they must get the body back?My favorite episode centered on a drug he made up that allowed users to take part in forming their own hallucinations.
So a college graduate who'd majored in history--completely unemployable--lives simultaneously in the present and in the 300-400 AD or so range.
Delany, who argued that despite the absence of scientific themes its speculative setting made it inherently science fiction.
The science fiction is there in places but played down to the everyday while the social realism is played up, to the point that 334 takes the reader into immersive layers of intricacy, and with a Dickensian eye for detail that shrugs off the fact that this is all meant to be about ‘the future’.
Neither was it ever meant to be a fun read in the way that 
Disch is an impressive writer, with poetic turns of phrase and artfully unusual constructions.
The storyline is intricate, and near the end I had to refer back earlier sections because of the twists and turns and intersections (the diagram of the last third of the book was great!).
By the end I felt that my brain had been turned inside out, and looking at the book I had the sense that I was holding not a linear representation of a tale with a beginning, middle, and end, but a tiny four-dimensional model of a chunk of space-time, which is a pretty neat trick.
Tampoco se pueden reproducir libremente debido a la escasez de recursos, hay que pasar una serie de tests para ello.Los dos primeros relatos "La muerte de Sócrates" y "Cuerpos" me gustaron tanto, que pensé seriamente que este libro iba a convertirse en uno de mis favoritos de toda la vida, con esa atmósfera entre Blade Runner y Max Headroom que tienen.
Además tengo que decir que me encantó la forma de escribir de Disch, por lo que este libro no va a ser el único que lea de este autor."El fin del mundo.
Another very dark and sick speculative fiction. You name it, this book has it - murder, suicide, incest, prostitution, necrophilia, exotic sex, racism, etc. There isn't much of storyline except that each story takes place in or around the grim apartment complex 334 and has many members of common family. It uses a poor technique seen quite a lot in the 60s and 70s of extrapolating situations to the dire end. To add to the confusion, the second half of the book jumps non-linearly through time.
I'd give it 4 stars, generally, but just 3 for Disch. He keeps my expectations very, very high.Kept.They're still up there. It's just, you know, he is to. Up there. In the ether.
Really unconvincing, really wasn't enjoying it, couldn't bring myself to finish it because I just didn't care.I think maybe I'm getting burned out on New Wave SF in general.
Sometimes you have a book which you just keep reading because you're sure something will - if not actually happen -coalesce from the strands to make it interesting.
"334" (and do not be swayed by the false promise of the spaceship cover) is quite simply a tiresome, difficult mess.
A cast of barely distinguishable characters fail to live well in a sketchily realised future society.
Any potential is wrecked by the scattershot rendering of disengaging prose.
More a collection of vignettes than a novel I would consider this unpublishable if it wasn't in my hand.
I have a collection of his stories, entitled Fun with Your New Head that is amongst my very favorite books.334 is called a novel, but it fits that descriptor loosely.
I found one sentence on page 102 that seemed to encapsulate the spirit of the whole book:Smells filmed every surface like cheap skin cream.Of course it's hard to sustain interest over the length of a novel in characters who are thoroughly unsympathetic.
In other words, I didn't find his vision thoroughly convincing.The tales in Fun with Your New Head are bleak too, but with a darker, more horrific edge.
The problem with a thoroughly realistic bleakness is that it's not very much fun.
The first part is little different than a collection of short stories, but they each hint and themes and characters developed later.
There's a *chart* to help the reader follow the narrative leaps in the second half, across 3 characters, different years (out of sequence), and narrative type ('another point-of-view', fantasy, reality, and monolog).
For example, there is a drug depicted in the novel that gives certain characters an elaborately detailed fantasy life--a sort of pharmacological virtual reality.
For example, a seemingly throwaway character from one of the early stories (Martinez) turns out to be the estranged husband of one of the main characters (Juan).
Stumbling across Disch's "The Brave Little Toaster Goes to Mars" (which I plan to read) triggered the dormant synapse that I had read "334" a long time ago, in a galaxy far away (i.e, Washington, D.C., 1978).
I had just finished "A Canticle for Liebowitz" and was looking for something a little edgier and immediate.
"334" is not exactly what I would call "science fiction".
I found the characters difficult to care about.
The real protagonist in this novel is the future society in which the characters' quotidian lives are "lived".
Think Paul Auster meets Julio Cortazar, but Disch was neither.
-Distopía depresiva y descorazonadora donde las haya.-Género.
En un futuro cercano, en el 334 Este Calle Undécima de Manhattan hay un edificio que forma parte de los proyectos federales MODICUM, con sólo un 30% más de habitantes que el número óptimo planificado y en el que viven o con el que tienen relación diferentes personajes cuyas vidas, a veces sólo pinceladas de las mismas, vamos conociendo.
Novela compuesta por diferentes relatos y novelas cortas relacionados entre sí, escritos entre 1967 y 1973 pero unidos para dar forma a este volumen en 1974.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
So I bought this book around 16 years ago when I first moved to Florida.
At the time I was a working on a huge tracking project that had the project code 334.
This project is what allowed me to move to Florida and keep my job, because no one else was familiar with the project, so my company had to let me work from home.
Unfortunately, I finally started reading it (long after project 334 had ended and I changed jobs) and didn't like it at all.
I stopped reading this book.
I know that the gentleman who loaned it to my grandson who loaned it, unread, to me would say I stopped because I'm a prude.
At the time 334 was written, it was cutting edge to be as blunt as possible about sex, and the mere fact of putting it ...
Disch uses his characters' thoughts and experiences with sex to good effect--telling us about the characters and society in ways different than any other ways would do.
I just prefer other ways.Guess that does make me kind of a prude, after all!
Brilliantly written book about the imagined future in New York circa 2020. The writer has a feel for the place and the first several stories are great, especially the woman who uses drugs to dream of being an ancient Roman matron and even has a therapist to help her live the fantasy, the invasion of the barbarians overlaid onto modern New York. The coherence starts to fray at the edges when we get to 334 itself. I never understood all of the interrelations among the characters. Probably a second read would clear it up.
Inventive and very complex...very dark and confusing at times..there is very little like this book no matter whether or not you find it enjoyable...some very powerful scenes spread throughout...
A Dickensian dystopia, this is a future as bleak as it can get. Told in short stories that were fashioned into a novel, this book describes a welfare state gone mad. A very good read.
Solamente los degenerados de un barrio-hongo neoyorkino lleno de inmigrantes parece que son los suficientemente animales como para pensar en el sexo, como si no tuvieran suficientes problemas ya.Se sugiere en varios párrafos: lo único a lo que pueden recurrir algunos personajes de la novela (sobre todo los niños) es la a biblioteca pública.
Pero de una familia lejana con la que está bien cenar y charlar un poco una vez cada diez años, para luego salir huyendo por las escaleras, como hace el estudiante Len Rude.Bueno, en realidad 334 no es una novela.
The book begins with five short stories, followed by a series of vignettes narrating the tribulation and ultimately the demise of one family.
Shifting constantly between characters, points of views and time, it seems confusing and hard to follow at first, but it gets progressively clearer, as Disch deftly drops hints allowing the reader to get a better picture of what is happening.
But we do emerge with a strong sense of the atmosphere of this future created by Disch.
I don’t really know much about Thomas Disch, but this book felt to me like it was written by someone that really meant it, if that makes sense.
read the first story/chapter and then accepted this just isn't my jam..
skimmed, stopped and read, skipped, stopped, drudgery in text form...
New Wave Sci-Fi, Dystopian Fiction, whatever the hell you want to call it, this did not work for me at all...
maybe in the chronological development of science fiction this charted new territory or was some sort of diversion or possibly some Dadaist way of approaching the growing depersonalization of the world or just as likely there were lots of drugs and sex and craziness afoot...
even the inherent awfulness of dystopian fiction can be done well, for me this failed...
Maybe for its copious amounts of anti-Semitism; Thomas M Disch didn't just create one or two anti-Semitic characters who may or may not have been echoing the author's sentiments, he created an atmosphere of anti-Semitism in all of 334.
It may or may not have been Disch's own sentiments, but I don't care for them.
And if I don't like something, I don't waste my time reading it.
If you don't like my review, read it for yourself and write your own review.
When I first read the synopsis, it sounded right up my alley; dystopian/alternate reality fiction is something I read above all other types of novels.
I liked the first few sections - The Death of Socrates left me with a sick taste in my mouth, and Bodies was especially disgusting.
But the middle of this novel fell apart, as far as I’m concerned...
it was difficult to understand what was going on, and the connections to characters weren’t as strong as the first section.
I’m going to be thinking about this novel and some of its quotes for a long time.
I got the feeling that the second half of the book was written in chronological order, but then Disch took a pair of scissors to the manuscript, threw all of the fragments in a hat, and drew them out one by one to make the book seem more clever than it actually was.
Parts of the book were a good read, especially the first few chapters and the last few, but I was disappointed by this book as a whole.
If the book had been only about Birdie (the main character in the first part of the book), I think I would have liked it better.
A hidden masterpiece. Forget the description here or on the back cover that makes the plot sound third-rate and predictable. A fascinating dystopic near future - think Blade Runner in a socially subsidized apartment complex. Fantasy interweaves with religion, drugs and welfare cases, and Disch values his reader enough to reveal his world gradually and only through the lives of his characters. Instant favorite.
This is a very good book but it's also very depressing. I recommend having a funny book lined up once you finish it.
