https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/86147.Bright_Lights_Big_City
However, to say specifically why this is so would be to say too much since the more complete story of what the narrator is going through is not disclosed until the closing chapters.Below are my comments coupled with one-line snappers from the novel’s main character, a 24-year old coke-snorting would-be writer working as a fact-checker for a New Yorker-like magazine and living in a downtown apartment by himself after Amanda, his fashion model wife, called telling him she isn’t coming back and he will be hearing from her lawyer to settle the divorce:“The girl with the shaved head has a scar tattooed on her scalp.
So it remains to say, which one's better?
This, or Bret Easton Ellis's literary debut, "Less Than Zero"?
They both have that quality that makes a reader almost fanatically impatient for their next written work.My opinion is that THIS ONE gets top prize.
(Although Ellis's "Rules of Attraction" is better than both of these).
The protagonist gets some help from the ever-elusive second person narrator treatment...
For you are the guy, YOU, and are trapped in your own particular time & space (obviously conveying the very way he feels trapped, just like the reader becomes trapped inside the narrative).
This quality makes it especially endearing.It's important & one true page turner on top of it!
E anche negli anni dell’edonismo reaganiano, degli yuppie, dell’economia che andava a gonfie vele, e tutto sembrava in crescita, quando finalmente l’uomo bianco occidentale, forse per la prima volta, si trovava tra le mani una vita che sembra senza punti negativi, anche in quel momento, dietro la copertina luccicante, scostando il velo…Kiefer Sutherland è l’amico Tad che procura la cocaina al protagonista.Come mai questo protagonista è così depresso da non avere neanche un nome?Perché la sua bellissima moglie l’ha appena lasciato.
This book is one I believe everyone should read. The subject matter is poignant, still relevant and (given the subject matter) extremely clean. Along with many, this book seems to me a prequel to Bret Easton Ellis‘s take on hip New York. While finishing it, I considered starting it over from the beginning immediately but have decided to reread American Psycho first. Bright Lights, Big City is a fast read and I think it is worth your time.
You've been meaning to read BRIGHT LIGHTS, BIG CITY for years, ever since hearing that it's written in the second person.
You brought an optimistic two novels and didn't even open them, so it wasn't until after your return that you finally started BRIGHT LIGHTS, BIG CITY.The second-person narration was strange at first.
You kept stopping to stare at that word and analyze how it made you feel to be cast in the role of a coke-fueled, miserable young guy in early '80s New York.
Thanks to Bookface, you no longer get this book mixed up with American Psycho, and can now easily tell the difference between Bret Easton Ellis and Jay MacInerney.
Good thing you cleared that right up before you embarrassed yourself at one of those writerly New York parties you're always getting invited to.
whew!This book is about how terrible people's lives were before the Internet was invented.It is exactly what you expect it to be, only slightly more palatable.
It's actually a fairly good substance abuse yarn (not normally your favorite genre), and it's a passable coming-to-ny/period-piece novel.
perhaps the best things i can say about this one are that it perfectly captured a perfectly nauseating time period in the mid-80s and it certainly reinvigorated the use of second-person narrative with surprising elan; perhaps the worst thing i could say about this one is that It Drove Me Up The Wall With Its Pathetically Entitled Non-Entity Of A So-Called Protagonist And It Somehow Made It Okay To Be A Pretentious Whiny Twit And Nihilistic Fuck. well ok then. man i guess it's all about you mark, you're so Bright Lights, Big City.
Bright Lights, Big City is grown-up in comparison with its themes of love, work, and family; the party culture is more of a backdrop than the main stage for the events that take place.The next time I read this I'll do it with a pen in hand--several lines struck me as poignant or funny.
(I'll probably have to buy my own copy for this exercise.) Here's one such line, when he's trying to make sense of a break-up: "But what you are left with is a premonition of the way your life will fade behind you, like a book you have read too quickly, leaving a dwindling trail of images and emotions, until all you can remember is a name."
You decide to read this book because it was written in the second person.
You ignore the fact that dance clubs and cocaine still exist, and you could actually choose this life if you wanted but you actively avoid it.McInerney, you realize, actually wrote that book that every 20 or 30 something guy with a liberal arts degree who spends their time wandering the city imagines they are constantly on the verge of writing.
You realize that lots of other people have done the same exact thing.
You decide you don't want to be a bandwagon reviewer.
You decide to leave the review as written.
Published in 1984, Bright Lights, Big City is famous for being a novel narrated entirely in the second person; although it's neither the first or the only book to do that, somehow it became one of the better known examples of this technique.
Unfortunately, that republic is Italy."), but Jay McInerney is no Bret Easton Ellis, and Bright Lights, Big City is not Less Than Zero and definitely not American Psycho, both of which feature similar themes but are much better books.

Ehhhhhhhh.I do not care about this man, whose story is told in the second-person.
I do not care about his job.
I do not care about his cocaine habit.
I do not care about his parties.
I do not care about the clumsy Nicholas Sparks story of his dying mother.
I do not care about anything he says or does.
All of it is superficial, glimmering, an example of the era and lifestyle which it attempts to parody.
McInerney cannot decide whether he seriously loves that hideous era in American history, or whether he hates it.
On the one hand, it's got a lot of very good prose (and funny, too, e.g.
Unfortunately, that republic is Italy."), and you pretty much have to identify with the main character...he is you, after all.* On the other hand, and maybe this is symptomatic of first novels, but McInerney seems to feel the need to heap on some unnecessary dramatic events either in a quest for Total Sympathy or as a justification for the protagonist's ennui.
Plus, he crucially drops the ball on a couple of scenes near the end.
Suddenly we have lines like "'How's it going?' You start to laugh.
People are funny.
You get used to reading a novel in second person pretty quickly, so it's not really that annoying.
You enjoy how quickly the pages turn, how quickly the plot flows.
It's a fun read, if not a deep one.
You recognize the parallels with your own life, but don't feel the need to dwell on this.
You end up liking the main character, even though you know he's an asshole.
You're a bit resistant to some implied moralizing at the end, but you let it go.
And you will make use of the metaphor of cocaine use as Bolivian Marching Powder in future conversations.
Read this book if you’re looking for a one-night thing, a quickie reading that’s mainly for pleasure and the heck of it.
If you’re looking for something serious, move on or read the part of this review under Sensuality vs Intellectualism.
If the purpose of intellect is to lead us to a pleasurable sensual life, then should intellectual growth be pursued?
People want greater pleasure, they strive for intellect growth.
If there is something that can tip the scales, that can show that humanity is more intellectual than sensual, it’s one thing.
Ma le parole entusiastiche dell’editor su questo scrittore enfant prodige, di cui pubblicò nel 1984 “Le mille luci di New York”, del quale dice che “occuperà sempre un posto speciale.
La delusione è stata più forte anche per il fatto che questo romanzo può ritenersi un bell’involucro esteriormente, un pacco dono con i fiocchi e i ricci ben confezionato –come dice Fisketjon, è impeccabile dal punto di vista letterario-, ma dentro c’è poco o nulla, nel senso che rimane in superficie, in generale non approfondisce i personaggi che ricordano i manichini delle luccicanti vetrine newyorkesi, messi nelle posizioni più strampalate.
I think it is good to read out of my comfort zone, though this is not the first book of this kind (drug-addled entitled and oblivious individuals in their twenties running around a city) which I have read.
They fed off of eachother, with Ellis leaning towards horror and McInerney towards something which more readers will be able to relate to.
McInerney's main character in this book is more human than any character I have so far read created by Ellis.
I was able to relate to this book on nearly every level, excluding the drugs.
It was contemplative and the main character destructive, in an accepted-by-the-city and his peers kind of way.
I got no personal reading done in Paris, and this book, despite being only 230 something pages, has been on my shelf since this summer until I got to it this fall.
"Bright Lights Big City" couldn't have come at a better time for me.The novel is best known for it's use of second person narration, but this took little to no adaptation for me.
I was "that girl" laughing aloud on the SI Ferry on more than one occasion.Perhaps it was my ability to identify with being a young twenty something struggling for a professional and personal identity in New York City.
Frenesia e inadeguatezza sono le prime parole che mi vengono in mente se penso a questo romanzo.Ci si ritrova, fin da subito, catapultati nella vita della New York degli anni ottanta tra grattacieli, taxi, luci e discoteche.
Il protagonista, un giovane uomo di nemmeno trent'anni che lavora per un'importante rivista ed è stato da poco lasciato dalla bellissima moglie, cede alle lusinghe della cocaina per evitare di pensare alla piega triste che ha preso la sua vita.La narrazione in seconda persona sembra quasi un atto di accusa del protagonista contro se stesso, un puntare il dito verso la propria vita superficiale e svuotata di tutte le cose importanti.
E, nonostante sia stato scritto trent'anni fa, contiene già tutta la disillusione che pervade il ventunesimo secolo.
3,5
It would be an understatement to say that I read and loved this book.
It's more like snorting coke, hanging around with this Allagash dude, partying every night, struggling with writer blocks, hating job....you get the idea, typical well-read, shallow, cynical young men with a thing for art.
I've read a good chunk of second person narrated books lately - Suicide by Edouard Leve, The reluctant fundamentalist, Fall by Camus, but this is the only book that served the whole purpose of the style.
This one's compared with Less Than Zero, which is definitely one of my top fives, but I'd prefer that; mostly because I'm the sort of person who'd defend Ellis's sick books.
Libro che ha la capacità di trascinare in un vortice temporale diretto verso gli anni ’80: inizia come un mix fra Afterhours di Scorsese e alcune delle migliori pagine di Bret Easton Ellis, continua come Office Space di Mike Judge per poi trovare una sua via originale che va oltre e supera tutti questi riferimenti.
Ah: il titolo originale è Bright lights, big city, preso da quello dell’omonimo blues di Jimmy Reed.P.S. poi il film l'ho visto e non è così male, a parte alcune scelte di casting poco centrate.
By day he works in the fact-checking department of a prestigious magazine, by night he’s out clubbing with his friend Tad and trying to “lose himself” in drugs and (possibly) sexual encounters of the one-night stand kind.The entire narrative is told in the second person employing a voice that is by turns self-deprecating and pathetic.
Od onda je prošlo trideset godina i to su sada uspješni ljudi u pedesetim godinama, usprkos tome što neki od njih (khm, Bret, khm) još uvijek zapravo pišu tekstove na istu tematiku.No iako nisam čitao Tamu Janowitz, sličnosti između radova Breta i Jaya definitivno su vidljive.
Ovaj roman sasvim je suprotan po tom pitanju, jer glavni lik konstantno želi pobjeći od svojih emocija, on želi biti ono što Bretovi likovi jesu, ali do toga se ipak ne može doći tek tako.U konačnici mogu reći da ovo zapravo i nije roman previše sličan Bretovim (to zapravo nije mjerilo za išta, ali teško mi je ne vući te paralele).
But I ended up liking the book.
After reading a sentence, my eyes would often retrace it and then connect it to the sentences before and after it.
(I also can't help but do this when I read Palahniuk, even though I don't particularly like his style and all I can hear is Edward Norton's voice from Fight Club reading aloud.
Palahniuk's and McInerney's prose styles are so unique that paying special attention cannot be avoided.) I'd like to know how much editing McInerney has to do to give his prose the kind of polish it has.
I will read more McInerney.
McInerney also does a good job of painting all the Manhattan scenes- the clubs and bars where his protagonist spends his nights, and the offices of The New Yorker, where he works during the day and slowly cracks up.
If the novel fails a little towards the end, that's probably appropriate as it's a lot like a cocaine trip: the beginning is a lot of fun, and the middle is pretty good, but the end never works out the way you'd like.
A useful comparison would be to Easton Ellis' "Less Than Zero" another Catcher in The Rye set in the 80s.
Insaziabilmente spiritoso. Le battute si rincorrono come cani da caccia, tutte fanno centro, tutte divertono.Narrare la storia in seconda persona singolare è stata senza dubbio alcuno una mossa intrigante.Il finale è scenografico e poetico al tempo stesso.Ma, purtroppo, il romanzo mi è rimasto addosso come una distratta passata di smalto scadente: troppi i fatti - schiacciati come sardine (elencati) in centocinquanta paginette, e personaggi di plastica, come condannato ad essere plastificato risulta lo stesso dramma (sepolto dalla fretta e dalle battute in saldo).
Love the use of second person. Love feeling like I'm hitting all the best parties in NYC. Love all the fun names for cocaine. I even love the twin towers depicted on the cover.Maybe a little short on plot and character but this is a fun novel not a sleep inducing, thought provoking, literary work.
If Delillo is the master philosopher of the post-modern novel, Rushdie the satiric fantasist, and Bret Easton Ellis the brazen provocateur, then, based solely upon this, my initial introduction, Jay MacInerney seems to be the genre's humanist.
That the lead character, referred to only only in second person, works in the Department of Factual Verification, weeding out errors in articles written by his lazy Ivy League colleagues at a posh magazine, during a time where he cannot even be sure of who he is, or if objective truth can even exist is one of the highlights of this often witty, rarely profound, first effort.
That's how you know you're reading something timeless: The period details matter so much less than the human predicaments and how they're handled, and Bright Lights, Big City gets most of that exactly right.This is a brief, quick read, and thinking back on it a week after finishing, what I remember most vividly is the bracing beginning—a headlong plunge right into 1980s Manhattan—and the end, when things take a turn for the somber.
And when the ride is over, you understand why this book made such a splash at the time as well as why it's endured well past the decade it portrays.
Is this really a book all New Yorkers have to read?
I feel like "Bright Lights, Big City" belongs on a shelf with "American Psycho" and "Bonfire of the Vanities." The literary brat pack connection is obvious, the Tom Wolfe one maybe less so, but all three of these books start with shallow characters sinking in 80s excess and try to remove the facade.
Of the three, "American Psycho" is my favorite - and the most successful.
Maybe it's just that I was 20 when I read a lot of Coupland.
Read for the second time and oh my god this book is just so good. It’s ever better than Less Than Zero which really hurts me to admit.—Incredible. Oh my god. It had a different tone than I expected but I soon got used to it, and when I did I just couldn't stop reading. Finished it in less than 12 hours. Definitely going to be reading more McInerney after this one. If you like books about writers stumbling about New York and getting drunk with no real direction then read this now.
Although this book is tiny, the writing is sassy and smart. Set in the 80's New York young professional coke scene, think American Psycho but with less mutilation and more moping. Apparently they made a movie out of it with Michael J. Fox. I have no desire to see it.
Both are more or less clueless, though this narrator (whose annoying second-person becomes synonymous with first-person fairly quickly) experiences routine domestic trauma sufficient to cause his difficulties.
There's a weird section wherein dude thinks of himself in the third person (34), alien among the second-personism.Though he feels as though he were "the only man in the city without group affiliation" (57), we can be certain that this pedestrian white boy is fairly generic; considering that his alleged lack of affiliation is set against "these Dracula Jews and zonked-out Africans," fair to conclude that this lack is the same as the lament WhY iS tHeRe No WhItE HiStOrY MoNtH?
I've been reading literature seriously for 15 years, and I have no idea how I've just now read Bright Lights, Big City. My first impression is that this is a classic. It's shocking to me that this book, which made a huge splash during its 1984 release, seems to have been largely forgotten. The writing is perfect from a technical standpoint; the story is a page-turner, and the portrait of the protagonist is raw, verisimilitudinous, and in the end deeply moving.
The unnamed protagonist of this brilliant novel is a writer who works as a fact checker for a high-brow magazine.
At night he loses himself in parties, using and abusing cocaine.Our protagonist does not want to find himself sober.
His answer is to embrace the hedonism of the 1980s yuppie party scene.Told from the second person narrative viewpoint, the novel is perfect for the disassociation with self and soullessness of this decade.I use the opening line as an example of this surreal viewpoint in every class I teach.
"You are not the kind of guy who would be at a place like this at this time of the morning." It is a brilliant novel.
I loved this book. McInerney pulls off this narrative all in the second person. He moves from to scene to scene in such a fluid way that the book's end comes as a shock, not because of content but because it snuck up. There's a tremendous amount of courage in ending a book at page 180. Sure, there is more to know, greater depths to dip down into, but often those can live in our imaginations.
In the end it was all just SO funny and clever and moved so fast and packed so much information and sharpness and heartache into such simple short sentences, that I couldn't get enough of it.
what kind of person the protagonist actually comes off as being, and the sort of painful comedic almost like Rube Goldberg machine plot sequences where you see almost in slow motion the protagonist making this choice, and saying that thing, which causes this thing, which causes this thing, which all results in him shooting himself in the foot (metaphorically).
At this point I could now just sit & type like 50 sentences in a row that I loved & were totally hilarous, but instead I'll stop.
The end!==50 pages in and LOVING it.
Το μυθιστόρημα αυτό ακολουθεί έναν 24χρονο νέο που ζει στο Μανχάταν της Νέας Υόρκης και βλέπουμε την ζωή του στα διάφορα νάιτκλαμπς, σε επιδείξεις μόδας, σε διάφορα πάρτι σε σπίτια διάσημων, αλλά και στο γραφείο του περιοδικού όπου εργάζεται ως διορθωτής κειμένων.
Γενικά είναι ένας νέος που πίνει πολλά ποτά και σνιφάρει κόκα, αλλά γενικά μπορεί να πει κανείς ότι δεν ξεφεύγει πολύ, συν τοις άλλοις είναι συμπαθής και ψάχνει να βρει ένα νόημα στη ζωή του, να ανακαλύψει τον καλύτερό του εαυτό.
Η γραφή πολύ καλή, η ατμόσφαιρα της Νέας Υόρκης ωραία, η ιστορία ενδιαφέρουσα αλλά χωρίς ιδιαίτερη πλοκή, γενικά ένα κλασικό στο είδος του βιβλίο που διαβάζεται πολύ γρήγορα και ευχάριστα.
So you decide pick a book or two off a must-read list of 25, and one of them is Bright Lights, Big City by Jay McInerney and you open it up to find that it's a first person narrator writing in the second person.
Then, more and more, you feel like the narrator is calling "you" "you" and you object that you aren't in this night club at all but reading about someone who's in this night club and calling himself "you" when he really means "I." The more this goes on, the more annoyed you become.You also become annoyed at the constant clubbing and coke-sniffing as well as at the strained trying-too-hard-for-laffs prose:The layout suggests a condo for high-rise gophers.
so i ended up reading this as a book (like the bell jar and catcher in the rye) about a young adult more or less alone in new york city who has some serious emotional and/or mental and/or personal issues that are going unaddressed and are derailing his or her life.
all three novels play out in similar fashions and end up making the case that, for all its merits, new york city is just about the most lonely, alienating place to be when you're mentally/emotionally out of sorts.
Absolutely LOVED this little book and I only just read it for the first time in early 2018. What can I say? Its funny, its honest, its creative and amusing. I'd heard about this book for so many years and had never taken the time to read it. I really enjoyed how it was written in second person narrative voice and also the rumor that so much of it was based on Jay Mcinerny's life in New York. One of my favorite books, and a part of my permanent collection.
Read in high school as the 80s were winding to a close, or perhaps the 90s were just beginning, although I'd argue that 90-91 (my final year of HS) was just the decade's death throes before grunge and Generation X rose from its ashes.
I don't remember much about the book that I can separate in my mind from the Michael J.
Perhaps I thought I understood a little more about life in the City after reading this.
The reading of this book is a relic from a time in my life I've mostly forgotten.
I read this because it recently entered as choice in the curriculum of a class I'm teaching.
Of course, I remember when it came out; Jay McInerney and Brett Easton Ellis were the Hot Young Authors of the 1980s.
For no good reason, I did not read it then but I absorbed its feel somehow.
My own failed attempt at the Great American Novel in the early 90s had a lot in common with this book, for better and for worse.
This is the only novel I've read that's entirely in second person, and it's a gripping story, but I thought the ending was a real letdown.
Enjoyable. Money-Lite.
