https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/510539.SS_GB
Deighton wrote a murder mystery/espionage novel set in Nazi occupied Britain 1941.
There are no over the top super charged heroics.Our hero (like previous Deighton protagonists) is more of an observer of events - though he does get involved near the end.In other words Deighton wrote a classic British mystery novel.........only with Nazi's running around in an England that is now controlled by them.
If you like classic British mystery stories you'll like this one and if you do enjoy Alternative History books you'll want to read SS-GB if for no other reason than it was one of the first AH novels to enjoy mainstream popularity.
Description: It’s 1941, the Luftwaffe have defeated the RAF in the Battle of Britain, and Hitler’s Wehrmacht have conquered Southern England.
The Nazis have won.That’s the fascinating premise of Len Deighton’s counterfactual novel, SS-GB, and now, some forty years since he wrote it, it’s been adapted for TV.
As this lavish five part series begins transmission, I spoke to executive producer Sally Woodward Gentle about the challenges of bringing Deighton’s classic thriller to the small screen.
sourceDon't kid yourself: if the Nazis had occupied Britain, they would have found many willing collaborators  sourceCR SS-GB3* The Ipcress FileTR Winter
I have been watching the new BBC series SS-GB (of this Len Deighton 1978 book). It's been almost 40 years since I read the book, but I do remember The Horror it engendered in me.The TV series atmosphere is very claustrophobic, frightening and surreal. We came so close to this reality. "The Few" who repeatedly frustrated the Germans in the Battle of Britain were surely and forever recognized by Churchill's "Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few". If any young people doubt this, SS-GB will be a terrifying wakeup call.
majstor ostaje majstor, ma o čemu pisao. Deighton je maestralno spojio svoju vještinu pisanja političkih trilera i svoje znanje povijesti drugog svjetskog rata u uzbudljivu knjigu iz žanra 'kako je moglo biti', i kako u posebnim okolnostima nešto tako banalno kao što je istraga ubojstva može posati...posebno. Kraj me pomalo iznenadio, i zbog osjećaja koji ostavlja smanjio ocjenu za jednu zvjezdicu.vidjet ćemo što će BBC napraviti od toga svega...
Shell craters, and heaped rubble, were marked only by yellow tapes, soiled and drooping between roughly made stakes.”At Scotland Yard, Detective Superintendent Douglas Archer reports to SS General Fritz Kellerman, “whose police powers extended over the whole country.” The Superintendent is “Archer of the Yard,” “the Sherlock Holmes of the 1940s.” He’s the country’s most famous detective because of his success in closing several high-profile murder cases.
Archer, Huth, and Kellerman warily circle around each other in a high-stakes game that puts all their careers—and their lives—at risk.Resistance is widespreadMeanwhile, Resistance to the German occupation is growing.
Detective Douglas Archer finds himself working under the brutal SS in occupied London.Episode 1 of 5It is 1941 and the Germans have won the Battle of Britain.
When the glamorous US journalist Barbara Barga is spotted at the scene of the crime, Archer's gut feeling that this crime is far bigger than it would at first seem is confirmed, and he soon finds himself embroiled in a deadly plot.Episode 2 of 5 An unexpected meeting with Himmler and Huth's boss, Professor Springer, underlines to Archer why the SS so desperately needs to track down the elusive Dr John Spode.
Un policier noir scris corect, dar pentru mine mai degrabă plictisitor.
Oarecum original e mai degrabă background-ul - Axa a câștigat WW2, dar din 1978 (când e scrisă cartea) a mai fost folosit de multe ori și a devenit destul de banal; pe deasupra, SS-iștii nu mi s-au părut credibili - se comportă ca niște lorzi britanici, nu ca militari fanatici ai unei dictaturi.
Dacă vă așteptați (ca mine), la un fel de ”Omul din Castelul Înalt” (cartea, nu leșinătura de serial), veți fi dezamăgiți.

A story set in 1941, when Britain has surrendered to Germany and is occupied with Churchill executed and the King in the Tower of London. A clever construct for Superintendent Archer to operate in and investigate a murder, with the German Army and the SS in different political camps and a secret Resistance in play. I have to say the espionage all got too complicated for me and I lost the plot!
I know there are people who met and knew each other briefly in WWII before they were married [and whose marriages lasted a lifetime], but this ‘relationship’ in the book made no sense whatsoever (view spoiler)[other than, possibly, to push Archer further into the ‘arms’ of the resistance movement and away from his German collaboration, except that Barbara is murdered apparently murdered by members of the resistance (hide spoiler)].To be honest, I did not care about any of the ‘main’ characters.
(hide spoiler)]It is kind of funny, but it never hit me until I actually started reading the book that the title might be referring to England [GB] as being occupied by the Germans [SS].

Occupied London is certainly a very drab place (both psychologically and weather-wise) and there is little (with the exception of a quick romantic romp between Archer and American journalist, Barbara Barga, to ‘lighten the mood’.
In the end, the invalid King (George VI) is killed in a rescue (and recovery of atomic documentation) raid and Kellerman – the head Nazi honcho – outwits Huth, his SS counterpart while Mayhew outwits Archer and achieving his goal of pulling the Americans into the war (with the implication that the Allies, with their superior atomic capability, will go on to defeat the Nazis in the near future).
Even in alt-hist Nazi occupied england, people are shot and murders have to be investigated.
But this being a novel, nothing is simple, and our protagonist, Douglas Archer, finds himself drawn into a deadly web of intrigue between factions in the SS, Wehrmacht, and the struggling British Resistance.
It is a very, very gray novel.
Even the Nazis refuse to be cast as genocidal monsters; merely self-interested conquerors who are taking advantage of the moment to loot everything not nailed down.
And as for the setting, it's great alternate history.
Great book, lots of fun, if that level of grimness is your thing.
The story itself is well thought out and written, albeit not too challenging.
I found the first third of the book a joy to read but for about 100 pages in the middle thought it was a bit of a drag.
The inclusion of romance provides a nice breath of fresh air in what is otherwise a dark view over occupied Britain.
The final hundred pages are an absolute joy to read and nothing short of a masterpiece.
All in all, brilliant book!
This book is definitely recommended to anyone who would like a view of Britain under German rule.
Whilst I enjoyed the alternative history set up of SS-GB, I feel Deighton failed to capitalise on it and instead created a look-warm and frankly humdrum account of a Nazi Britain.
The story is at times, very good, but the majority of the book is boring, full of needless talking and jargon.
In SS-GB Deighton has managed to create one of the least thrilling thrillers I've read in a long time.
The main focus of the book is all over the place and it is then all rounded up in a rushed and bare-bones final few pages which reveal everything - but by this point its difficult to care.
Deighton builds a plausible world in which the UK faces a military occupation à la France, and our central character struggles to maintain his day to day existence as homicide detective in Scotland Yard serving under SS commanders.
While Deighton struggles with his female characters - really, they seem to exist as empty ciphers to prolong the plot - the tale moves along at a clip and doesn't get too silly.
Things are not as they seem, and I did like the narrative thread as a simple murder investigation descends down a rabbit hole of intrigue that is the playground for far more powerful forces.Recommended.
If you enjoy alternative World War II History - you will love SS-GB; the historical detail is in-depth and comes alive visually. BBC-1 has just released a television series based upon SS-GB. Can't wait for it to come to US!
Fictional tale about a Scotland Yard detective caught up in German intrigue in Nazi occupied London. Book was very good in describing what daily life in London may have been like under German rule, the actual detective story line was less interesting.
I wasn’t too sure about this until the very end. It started well but I felt the pace dropped off, and then the last quarter was quite jumpy and lacked the flow of the start. However, I’ve given it 4 stars because it is a decent book, but the overall premise is so interesting and well-tackled - it provides a pretty interesting glimpse into an alternative world.
However, SS-GB takes place in Nazi-controlled 1941 London and stars a British detective who is forced to work with his new German masters, and who becomes a pawn in the various German Army-SS rivalries.(SPOILER): Both books involve neat additional twists on history - Fatherland's detective is trying to expose the Holocaust, which in this story is still a well-kept German secret; while SS-GB involves Germany's attempt to develop an atomic bomb, which they could then use to invade America.
(END SPOILER)In any case, I highly recommend both books to any fan of either WWII or alternate history fiction.
I don't particularly care for alternate history, there are too many good real history and historical fiction out there to spend time reading about things that didn't happen. SS-GB is an exception. I have carried the book around for years and just finished it. A chilling look at what could have happened if the Nazis had successfully invaded England. Looking forward to seeing the TV adaptation when it gets to the States. 4 Stars because alternate history is not my thing and this one succeeded.
Deighton does a great job in describing a Nazi-occupied Great Britain. Well thought-out, the occupation structure and details could well be real, and this makes this book a very interesting one. The plot itself is nothing spectacular, but does hold and is entertaining to say the least.All in all, a page-turner and probably quite better than Jo Walton's Ha'penny and farthing.
I love the literary idea, and I had once read a disastrous novel about it; the author didn’t know the German character and it spoiled everything.
Archer is trying to investigate a murder, which turns out to be far more complicated than it first appeared.As Mr Deighton mentions, the idea of a murder investigation is the ideal premise for this type of story.
The Jewish question was barely mentioned, and I would wish for the author – or any author approved by Mr Deighton – to write that book.I knew SS-GB would be interesting, but it is utterly riveting, and so much better than I hoped.
This is a book of alternative history like Fatherland https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5...
and Operation Sealion https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2..., showing a London under Nazi control in 1941.
the author describes the book as a murder mystery or police procedural cloaked in a nightmare locale.The main character, Archer of the Yard, Douglas Archer is a widower and Scotland yard inspector.
Under the Nazis the police have been made part of the government.
But of course if you are in the know or in with the Nazis you can get anything you want from art work to beluga caviar.
What seems like a simple Black market murder evolves into secrets of the atom bomb and a vast conspiracy.
As a guilty pleasure I have always enjoyed alternate history novels, I guess something about them stirs up a 'what if?' Imagination within myself.This is an intriguing story which, if you let yourself to be really taken in by the main character Douglas Archer, you will find a man who i believe is certainly patriotic to his county, but can then seem at ease with his countries invaders. Superintendent Archer is in for a surprise of the political machinations that involve war torn countries!Great read and highly recommended!!

I have not read a Len Deighton book for a long time and I must say I was a bit disappointed. I started watching SS-GB on TV and thinking that the book would be better so I stopped watching the TV show after a few minutes so I could read the book. The book reads to me more like a screenplay than a novel. There is a gratuitous female love interest; nothing makes sense until the last page and then it all wraps up too neatly after you understand that everyone has been triple-crossing everyone all the time.
✭✭✭✭
Every bit as good as I remembered it from 1980, and yet I'd forgotten enough of the plot that the end took me by surprise.
A Real ThrilllerSS G B, is a tale that I am glad never happened. The intrigue the author and depth of knowledge is worth the reading. A Must Read.
