https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14769.Davita_s_Harp
But in the country of the halt, the man who is surest he has no limp may be the worst-crippled." Potok shows the reader that we are living "in the country of the halt," and that if we don't realize we are limping and allow ourselves a crutch, we will remain permanently broken.
And here I am reminded of what Richard John Nuehaus wrote in his meditation Death on a Friday Afternoon, and this I think sums up the message I felt was subtly and emotionally painted for me by Potok's book: "For paradise we long.
It's sad to me that everyone reads THE CHOSEN in school, and not this amazing gem of a book.
I barely remember THE CHOSEN, but I could rhapsodize for hours about DAVITA'S HARP.
The characters are wonderful and real, and Davita's search for truth, for knowledge, and for family is heartbreaking and lovely.
The daughter of two left-wing activists, Davita's sudden fascination with the Hasidic world her mother abandoned is baffling to her parents and their friends.
It's, quite simply, a shining jewel of a book, and it makes me want to both hold Davita close to my heart to comfort her, and to have a deep philosophical conversation with her.
Her parent's decisions and activism, their friends and political struggles lie at the heart of Davita's young life - they move frequently and her nights are spent in a strange dream of "Spain" and "Fascism."Before I read this book I had no sense that the second World War played such a vital role within the context of the story, and the communist movement within America at the start of the war is a perspective I have never read about before.
Ambientato durante il periodo della guerra civile spagnola, vi viene rappresentato, attraverso gli occhi semplici di una bambina, un mondo drammatico di guerre e persecuzioni, di odio e violenza: Davita riesce a sopportare la realtà quotidiana grazie alla fantasia e all'immaginazione, così da trasformare il racconto in un succedersi melodioso di suoni e di immagini.
, presso il "Musée Marc Chagall" di Nizza: mondi colorati e onirici, con i personaggi che si sollevano sopra città e colline, pervasi da una nostalgia diffusa...Intensa anche la descrizione del dipinto 
di Picasso, attraverso il quale Davita rivive la morte del padre.
At first I was wondering if the stories were going to entwine because of the setting and time, because of the age of the characters and both Davita's and Asher's similarly unique ways of thinking and speaking.
I personally gravitate towards darker things: colors, books, film , and general dark topics.
A big tension point was the relationship with Davita's mother, and her 'Uncle' Jakob Daw. I loved Jakob Daws' stories, but found his character unnerving, and didn't enjoy his presence when he was with the Chandal family.
I especially felt anxiety over Jakob when Potok would hint that Jakob and Channah, Davita's mother, were having an affair.
Communism has replaced the religions of their childhood - The Eastern European Hasidism of Ilana's mother, and the New England Episcopalian life of her father.
Time and time again, the characters are forced to lo "lose their religion" - to examine their politics, their religion, their love for a flawed family member.This is a slow, thoughtful book.
Hannah is a particularly neglectful parent by today's standards - she leaves barely 10 year old Ilana alone in their apartment at night to attend political meetings and rallies, and seems blind to her daughter's difficulties at school and inability to fit in.
E bello vedere anche come questo scrittore, nonostante sia rabbino, sembra capire la disegualianza che c'è tra uomini e donne nella sua religione e attraverso Ilana le mette in evidenza.Ma oltre a Davita e i genitori, il libro è pieno di bellissime persone come Jackob Daw e Zia Sarah, ma anche il Signor Dinn, David, i signori Helfman e la figlia Ruthie....
e dopo tutto quello che ho scritto, ho l'impressione di non essere riuscita in pieno a descrivere la bellezza di questo libro ...
There's also an uncle of sorts in there, a prototype of Chaim Potok - a Yiddish writer.
Besdies Davita, he was my favorite character, speaking in beautiful but undecipherable parables.
In spite of her left wing background, Davita becomes enamored of traditional Judaism and becomes a baalas teshuva of sorts.
I say "of sorts" because Chaim Potok is notoriously inaccurate in his portrayal of Orthodox and Hasidic Jews.
Speaking as an ex-lefty who did teshuva, I loved this book once upon a time.
But everyone reading Chaim Potok should be forewarned, he's no expert on the real inner life of Hasidic Jews.
Davita's first person narrative was a little choppy; I assume the author created simplistic sentences and dialog in keeping with her age.
It is my observation that his stories portray tension between Jewish sects or between Jew vs.
He then proceeds to create a breakthrough of understanding between the factions that is enormously heartwarming and affirms your hope in mankind.Another earmark of Potok's writing is his use of symbolism.
In this book it is a door harp and though it is a lovely symbol, it could have been treated more subtly.
I guess I don't think about the authors of books very often as I'm reading them.
But the contents of this book were so beautifully written and so masterfully unfolded that I found myself thinking often about Potok's incredible skill in writing it.
A lot of books are about growing up and about losing and finding and discovering and building identity and finding one's place and realizing important things after such a long time of feeling like you don't understand anything at all.
This book is about those things too, but its quality is so exceptionally unique and extensive.
I really loved this book.
One poignant lesson I learned was that there are many truths out there that seem threatening to my belief system, and they may or may not be, but to really find hidden truths I have to be open minded and willing to see things from a different point of view.
Another thing I learned while reading this book is that I need to be sure of my "source" of truth.
If I have complete faith in my "source", which for me is my Heavenly Father, then He will help me find the truths that I need to complete the mission He has given me.
Potok's deliberate pace, where the thoughts and consequences of one step can occupy two pages, also allows for us to guess the hidden implications that Davita may not explicitly divine - especially as he returns to these questions at various points in the story; the differing juxtapositions of these divinations - where what-Davita-guesses meets up with different parts of what-we-guess - can make repeated readings of this book a rewarding exercises.Repeat readings can make Potok's machinations more clear - and, while at times the layers of suggestion and emphasis offer a pleasure that the narrator herself shares (often while thinking of Jakob's stories or reading his letters), at some points the intent of Potok's elisions become less clear.
Her life is changed when her reporter father goes to Spain to write on the Civil War there.
While this was good in terms of getting inside the experiences of a girl growing up in that time period, I wish that more had been done with her faith search.
She begins attending Sabbath services out of curiosity, following a Jewish neighbor and then goes back each week because she likes the singing.
Next thing you know, she's attending Jewish school and is actively seeking to keep the commandments.
Still, a good book and a look into the Jewish community in Brooklyn in the '30's and '40's.
It captured this incredible mind of young, remarkable girl living in the mid nineteen hundreds Davita Chandal.
It captured her struggle to accept the world and it's injustices.
It has to be clear to you though, that you can not solve all of the worlds problems.
Davita learned that you must live through the struggles of the real life, face it's truth, and continue moving on.
Everyone has a place in the world, and it is up to you to find it.
Through imagination, stories, struggle, perseverance, love, and thought, Davita learned these lessons.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone who loves deep thought and meaning.
However, this is a very smart girl with parents who don't protect her from the horrors going on in the world, so she does have thoughts you wouldn't normally attribute to such a young girl.
I thought it was a really good book, but I still kind of wish I hadn't read it.
Reading how the Orthodox Jewish community in NYC during the 30s treat this extremely smart girl and let her know in ways large and small that she doesn't count because she's a girl was very difficult for me.
Kind of made me feel bad to be a Jewish woman.
Dear black bird,Though the quantity of your contribution to ‘Davita’s Harp’ is about as small as you are, you – and your creator the fantastic Jakob Dew - taught me and Ilana Davita a memorable lesson.
This lesson is still so valuable to me today, because I always try to look away whenever something bad happens.
Your bravery made this book an unforgettable journey for me.I hope you have found peace in Davita’s lovely door harp.
May you never close your eyes,A deeply touched readerPS If you happen to know any black birds in my neighbourhood, please tell them that my door harp is still vacant.
As slow and seemingly uneventful as Davita's Harp may seem at first, it has such a great pay off just in seeing Ilana Davita etch a place for herself and her own thoughts while surrounded by people with such extreme opinions and beliefs.
The most powerful parts of the narrative are when Ilana breaks the mold of what's expected of her (like when she says Kaddish for the first time, or when she steps out of the boat).
Especially goosebump-inducing is when she sees herself from the outside and the narrative changes to third person.
Perhaps I really like coming of age stories, but this is one of my favorite books.
I would never have read it, or maybe any Potok, had not someone in my book club chosen it.
Interesting that many of the women give it higher reviews than the men, but as a man, I found it also touched my heart.
I thought the evocation of the 30's, the Spanish Civil War, the somewhat "naive" leftist/Communist idealism of that time were all very well portrayed.
The struggle to come to terms with spirituality and hypocrisy were very well-done.
A small book that contains a lot thought, feeling, and complexity.
La storia di Davita è una di quelle che restano dentro. Durante la lettura a volte mi sono sentita come tradita nelle aspettative, ma ora ogni tanto mi soffermo a ripensare all'arpa eolia e ai due uccellini che vi hanno fatto il nido, alla visione del mondo di Davita e al suo modo di vivere con naturalezza e caparbietà le cose che ama. L'ho vissuto come un romanzo sincero: un pezzo di mondo narrato con garbo da una bambina, senza l'artificio di 'effetti speciali' per creare sensazionalismi inutili.
This is a beautiful story of a young girl growing up in the 1930's. Davita's parents are activists in the communist party in America. The book explores some ideas on the importance of religion and history and finding what is important to you. It is also just a wonderful story of a child growing up.
The author's nuanced ability to get into the mind of an adolescent girl struggling with reconciling her parent's communist views with the Judaism of her community is amazing. The struggles she goes through are so poignant and well written.
One of my favorite re-reads.
Een prachtig boek. Fictie en realiteit zijn mooi met elkaar verweven. De plaats van de vrouw in het jodendom wordt kritisch bekeken. Een boek met inhoud, het lezen waard!
The characters feel like schedules: you have aunt Sarah representing the spiritual/christian-side, there are the parents who are typical communists and there is Jakob who is the kind of writer that speaks sentences like 'writers' typically do in cartoons or young-adult novels.
In other words: this novel contains lots of flat, dull writing and dialogues which seem to go on for ever:'Yes''I'm sorry''Is uncle Jakob going away soon?''Yes. On monday.''To Europe?''Yes''But there's a war in Europe.'...'Was it a bad war?''There are no good wars, Ilana.'Davita isn't immediately the kind of character who draws an impression - like Oscar in 'The tin drum' by Günter Grass or Paddy Clark in Roddy Doyle's 'Paddy Clark ha ha ha'.
In a way this feels like 'Fiddler on the roof', which is not immediately a good thing.
Like the others I’ve read, it’s a coming of age story about a young, smart, Jewish kid; unlike the others I’ve read, this one is about a girl, and that makes all the difference.
They are Communists (when that wasn’t quite as unfashionable as it would be today) with hopes and beliefs about making the world a better place.
Davita never quite understands her parents and their beliefs, but she loves them dearly and respects their desire to make the world better.
As she grows, she learns more about her parents and about her place in the world, both as a girl and the daughter of Communists.
Potok clearly uses alot of symbolism in this book (the bird, the harp etc.) but it never feels contrived since these symbols are real in Ilana Davita's imagination.
In de the beginning of the book I had a hard time connecting to Ilana (maybe because she is so young) making the story feel distant.
All I know is that I was glad that Ilana chose to go her own way, picking up the good parts of the different worlds she was exposed to.
Ondanks alle angst en pijn slaagt Davita erin iets met zich mee te dragen dat haar innerlijk verwarmt: de zachte tonen van een harp die aan elke deur hing van de huizen waar ze met haar ouders in woonde.Op aanraden van mijn moeder, voor een reading challenge van 2015, een van haar lievelingsboeken gelezen.
Potok beschrijft nog net niet wat Davita ontbijt of hoe de omgeving er uit ziet, maar neemt voor mijn gevoel veel zijwegen in het verhaal.
Met davita's harp krijgt de lezer een interessant inzicht in het opgroeien van een jong meisje wat niet perse op zoek is naar een geloof, maar zich identificeert met onderdelen van verschillende geloven.
I've been reading the novels of Chaim Potok for ages but one gets tired of The Chosen and My Name is Asher Lev.After sepnding quite a bit of time on the latest volume of Caro's massive biography of LBJ I decided it was time for a little pleasure reading.
I had fond memories of Potok's Davita's Harp which I first read when it was published in 1985.
When I fist read the novel I learned it was Potok's only novel with a female protagonist.
I later read in his obituary in "The Times" that it was the last time he used such a character.No more.
The world can be a truly brutal place, and devoting yourself to a cause or faith can heal both your soul and your world in powerful ways.
Potok doesn't offer any tidy answers or solutions to the problems he raises, but still celebrates the value of "sacred discontent" - listening to that spark within us that leads us to face the brutal world and do what we can.This isn't my favorite of his (if you're new to him, start with My Name is Asher Lev or The Chosen), but I did thoroughly enjoy it.
Story told by a 6 year daughter of Michael & Annie.
Michael who was raised Christian and left his faith due to a crime he witnessed and his wife Annie that left Judiasm.
They both turned to ideals (communism) and their daughter tells the story of their passion to change the world while trying to find more about of her self.
The second most interesting is the story of Annie & Michael was that they had great passion for an ideal that in the end crumbled and they felt betrayed by it.
That their ideals did not go against the realities of this world.
