https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1009996.Artisan_Bread_in_Five_Minutes_a_Day
Put that bowl of dough in the fridge and it will last for days, and you can make pretty much anything out of it, sometimes three or four servings of anything, and you'd never know it was no-knead bread.This book explains the theory behind this no-knead approach, goes over the ingredients and materials needed to make it, and offers several base doughs, as well as recipes for specialty breads.
There are a few brown and white photographs throughout the book, with a group of color inserts in the middle.The "discovery that revolutionizes home baking" is a big deal.
I felt like some of the recipes are padding, things to eat with bread rather than breads themselves, and I wanted more color photographs.
My first batch of dough is now in the fridge ready for our first loaf in the morning.
I know purists may scoff at the premise of this book, but if this is a way I can have real bread each day, with that great smell in the morning, and my kids eat it, then rock on.
Josh loved to see how much the dough rose.The idea is to make a big wet batch of dough that you keep in the fridge for a week, taking off a chunk each morning and cooking it.
We're half way through a light wheat dough batch.
He is, weirdly enough, an MD who just really loves carbs.) have totally simplified the recipes and changed up the method so that you can mix, store, and bake bread just like a pro.
I think it's an attempt to make it seem easy and friendly for non-bakers.
I love his introduction about how much he loves bread, but the basic recipe and method instructions are really wordy, and I had to read it over and over the first time to make sure that I wasn't missing some key step along with all the admonishments not to worry and to go ahead and blah blah blah.
I LOVE to bake bread.
I received this book as a Christmas gift from my mom and have to admit, I was skeptical whether it would deliver on the promises it makes.
Does this book deliver!
And I bake a lot of bread!
The outside is crusty, inside is wonderful, beautiful, amazing!
I can't wait to try out some of the other breads and am sure that I will eventually have a variety of different doughs in the fridge.
Have you ever baked artisan bread before?
And yes, I WILL make the aubergine tartine, it sounds wonderful.
The theory here is that you make a big batch of dough one day then stick it in your fridge for up to 2 weeks (it becomes more like sourdough the longer it is in there) then it is ready when you want it, hence the 5 minutes a day.
It's an amazingly simple recipe with no kneading required (my favorite feature), however it is "artisan bread" so I have to remind myself not to expect a big loaf of soft crusted wheat bread.
A little round loaf with crusty outside and chewy inside.
Some recipes were too fancy and unappealing - Aubergine Tartine anyone?
- but others were perfect - soft pretzels - and some I have yet to try - spinach feta bread.
With this book it tells you how to make up a big batch of "wet" dough and store it in your fridge for 5 to 14 days (depending on recipe) and then pull from it and make bread daily or every other day - whatever works for you.
It says 5 minutes a day because you pull the dough off the big batch you made already and shape - in 5 minutes.
I feel the recipes of this book are going to be mainstays in our home.
A dough recipe that you can make in large batches and refrigerate!The process is a little different from making traditional doughs, but it's streamlined.It's perfect for somebody who wants a loaf of bread in 30 minutes instead of 2.5 hours. I find that I'm not willing to put in that much time/effort all at once unless it's a weekend.The book centers itself around one master recipe, and the other recipes are versatile modifications. I've baked 8 loaves of the master recipe and haven't gotten sick of it yet. Sometime soon I'll try the others.
I wonder if the book tastes better than the bread, because three of three loaves from the master recipe tasted like newspaper.Preheat your oven, lower your expectations, and prepare to taste disappointment.
The directions for making the dough is confusing at first (what's a gluten cloak?) but once you get the hang of it, it's all good.
I don't have a pizza stone or a pizza peel so I simply use a cornmeal-dusted sheet of foil on a cookie sheet and all of my boule-formed loaves came out great.
The bread recipes seem to be fairly forgiving if you do the ingredient ratios correctly.There's a bunch of non-bread recipes in there too which look good but I haven't tried making any yet.
The only recipe that came out bad was the pumpernickel, which tasted like wheat bread flavored with coffee.
I love making bread and have several bread recipes, but none were for a good crusty artisan loaf until I tried the "Master Recipe" in this book.
I will try the pretzel recipe as well but even if I go no further, this book gave me what I wanted.So why only four stars?
But I went ahead with what I had, baking bleached flour dough on my cast iron skillet (and later my sub roll pan) in my possibly uncalibrated oven, and like I noted above, I was perfectly happy with what I got.
First, the positive: this is the book that started me baking bread.
A complete baking novice, I read the article in Mother Earth News, bought the book, and found that it really was an easy, fool-proof recipe.
The flavor improves, the crumb opens up and you save a TON on yeast.
While it's certainly not my favorite bread, it was the reason I started baking in the first place.
If you're interested, get it from the library or find the recipe on the Mother Earth News website and try it before you go out and buy it.
The Master Recipe in this book makes baking delicious fresh bread daily so easy you will not believe it.
I purchased this book back when it first came out in 2007 and loved the process.
During several years of sad low carb living the cookbook languished on the book shelf.
Pulled it back out and voila!
On my third batch and week of delicious bread daily.
My family is ecstatic.
In addition to the master recipe I now tried the Rye and the Portugese corn bread; all delicious.
The bread is that good.
Yes, that's right, the title is right - baking bread in five minutes. I discovered this cookbook from a friend of mine who is also a baker at Zomick's. Some 4 years ago when I first read it, I found a real jewel of a recipe. It was an old challah recipe that traditionally originated from Eastern Europe. Till this day I'm still offering that challah bread on the shelves at Zomick's bakery. And that is just one example; there are plenty of recipes I've tried and all are excelent.
The smell of freshly baked bread wafting through the house has got to be one of the most comforting, tantalizing aromas ever.
And it makes me happy.
This book makes baking artisan bread a total breeze.
The most difficult part of the process is getting set-up with the proper equipment needed to mix, house, and bake the bread dough.
You mix up your dough, let it rise, then pop it in the fridge until you are ready to bake up a delicious loaf.
If you love homemade bread but have been intimated at the thought of attempting to make it, give this book a try.
I thought the title sounded a little gimmicky and was not overly excited although I do like fresh baked bread.
The first recipe I tried was a Rye & Coffee bread.
In the past I have made bread from various recipes, usually ones online that I can never find again and only turn out well 50% of the time.
The idea of baking bread on a stone instead of in a loaf pan was new to me.
I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in baking bread.
Truly, this was a life-altering book.
Imagine Tom Hanks in that scene from Castaway, where he beats his chest and yells "I have made fire." Well, that was me, yelling "I have made bread," while my husband rolls his eyes and I eat another slice of the most wonderful bread I have ever eaten.
And it seems ridiculous that I can make bread that tastes so fantastic in my own oven at home in 5 minutes.
I have been making bread for years in my Bosch, but this is a whole new level of bread making.
Ridiculously easy, fantastically delicious and stinking cheap.
For years I've attempted bread, only to be bitterly disappointed at the leaden loaves I've produced. This is the first bread recipe which has actually worked for me. Not only does my bread look delicious but it tastes wonderful and it actually looks like artisan bread, down to the "bubbles" inside the loaf itself. The only problem with this book is that now I'm eating much more bread than I really should. I console myself with the fact that I'm probably saving a lot of money and I know each and every ingredient in the bread that I'm eating.
Great recipes and wonderful tips! Borrowed this book from the library and loved it so much I went out and bought a copy. Now my family enjoys fresh bread every week.
If you want to learn how to bake artisan bread without too much effort, you HAVE to own this book. Absolutely worth every penny.
I was looking for a more general book about "bread wisdom" when it comes to baking rustic artisanal loaves etc.
Instead this book leans gimmicky w/r/t/ delivering on the title's promise.
You're making bread, but you're making a specific type of moist no-knead dough that you store in the refrigerator so that you can break off chunks every day and have small super-fresh loaves.This is not a bad thing, this just isn't what I'm looking for vis-à-vis bread knowledge at this time in my personal quest.
I suspect I'll circle back around on it at some point, because this is an interesting proposition.
Ok, here's the thing.This is a great method for baking bread and the results in my own kitchen have been nothing short of astonishing.But it doesn't take "5 minutes a day".It takes more like 10 minutes, once a week to mix a batch of dough which will yield about 4 loaves.Once the batch of dough is mixed, it will rise for about 2 hours, after which you put it in the fridge and then you can pull from this batch during the week to make individual loaves of bread.To bake a loaf, you pull off some dough and shape it.
After you shape it, the dough needs to rest for 40 minutes, then bake for 30 more.
It's hard to make a sandwich between two slices of beet, and I say this from experience.7/23/2013 Note: If you're tempted to try the "revolutionary" (and it is) way of making bread, but you hesitate because you generally eschew white-flour baked goods, you may wish to see my review of "Healthy Bread in Five Minutes a Day".
Or skip the reviews and go make some bread!
At this time, I can only point out that 1) it's annoying that the culture uses the word "healthy" when "wholesome; health-promoting" is what is really meant, and 2) this wonderful, crusty bread is really es-chewy.
I made one (small) loaf after the first rise the first day, two loaves after the dough had been in the fridge for a few days, and a pizza tonight.
So good.It is a bit misleading (I think) to say "five minutes", but it gives you the general idea of a streamlined process.
Though the dough doesn't need to be kneaded or punched down or dealt with delicately, there is still an initial rise time of two hours and a rest time the day you bake of 40-90 minutes and a bake time of 30 minutes.
I was frustrated that I was not very good at baking - I was given a bread machine years ago - used it a lot at first but was never really satisfied with the bread or just the dough that came out of it.
I love this book!
Note: I have found that if you are going to make lots of bread - buy SAF yeast (Whole Foods carries this) - lasts a long time and easy to convert for all bread recipes.
If you ever had the desire to bake good artisan bread - buy this book today!
I love this book.
Having discovered The Tassajara Bread Book, I developed a renewed love for freshly baked bread.
But it also allows me to enjoy fresh baked bread more often--it's just not possible for me to bake a fresh loaf of bread in the middle of the work week.
It's satisfying to know that there is dough in my fridge ready to bake when I'm ready for bread--or pizza, which has been great, too.
I'll still use my Tassajara Bread Book, but this book has been a great introduction to a whole other level of bread-love.
Go to the author's website: Artisan Bread in Five Minutes a Day and follow the "errors" link.
I did and just wrote the changes in my book.This premise is not super convenient for the working chef with more than a 5 minute commute!
So since I work until 5, commute 45 minutes, and don't want to eat at 8pm, it's problematic for me.
I received this book as a gift and concept is so cool.
It is a great way to make homemade bread, impress people with its rustic allure, without putting in the hours of work!
The basic idea here is to make a batch of dough that will stay in the fridge, then to pull off grapefruit-sized pieces to bake for your fresh bread when you want it. Pretty neat, and there were many tasty-sounding recipes that I want to try. We picked it up from the library, but will probably purchase it because there is no other good way to try all of the recipes and make notes in-book about our thoughts and modifications.Rating: PG, for suggestions of strong drinks to go with different breads or meals. :)
I thought myself very clever when I bought this book for my former professional baker husband. What could be better than a book that teaches you how to bake fabulous slow-rise bread while saving time and money? Turns out, he had been using this method for years because he likes to sleep late. His baguettes are by far the best I've ever tasted (cf reviews for Mr. Smith's Bakery Cafe), so I highly recommend this unread book.
What's not to like about baking your own damn bread? I am POWERFUL, I am the shiznitt for sure. My house smells like a bakery, my man and kids and neighbors are impressed, and when the world ends, I won't die without Wonder Bread. Hear me roar.Have tried several different recipies and all have been splendid. Do me a favor? Have a sandwich on a slice of bread that you made yourself from scratch and tell me if you will never, ever, ever eat at Subway again. Do it right now!
I have wanted to read this cookbook for a looong time. Good thing we're not gluten free because this bread it diviiiine! If we never move past the basic recipe, I don't think anyone would care, but there are so many delicious breads to try! It really is very little work to make delicious breads! Oh and you don't even need the fancy tools that they recommend having. I don't have them and our bread was wonderful!
