https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14839.Last_Man_Standing
This book was too long for me. The plot convoluted in a way, I had problems with connecting with the protagonist that should have been a guy to really like. He was a troubled but highly skilled FBI agent with issues, which were resolved in a way, but still lacking any final resolution. Even a loosely possible romantic situation didn't eventuate. I was disappointed with this, but as always, my audio cd's are limited as I only borrow from the library and never seem to choose anything decent. Disappointing, and all I can really articulate is that it was okay.
Ultimately I was disappointed with too many plot elements, clichés, and implausible components.Web London is the sole survivor of an FBI hostage rescue squad’s disastrous drug raid in Washington, DC.
His best lead is a young boy who was a witness on the scene of the raid who has been mysteriously swept away by some fake FBI agents.He begins to work with a female psychiatrist, who begins to dig painfully into abuse in his childhood and his guilt over a past raid on a religious cult that led to the death of a child hostage.
The intrigue starts at the opening page when Web London, a highly-trained sniper in the FBI's Hostage Rescue Team (HRT), proceeds with his team into an ill-fated operation.
What follows next is Web's struggle to not only understand what happened but to clear his name.
I looked forward to listening to this story daily and actually awakened in the middle of one night with the revelation of what happened to Web!
I also enjoyed the narrator who had the tough task of distinguishing so many characters.
I enjoyed this story that's classic Baldacci, even though the ending wasn't quite what I needed.
David Baldacci never fails to amaze, another solid thriller! A few chapters really seemed to drag and the story seemed to be going nowhere, but it was like connecting the dots, the antagonists are all a mystery until the very end, and they weren't who I was expecting. This is however another book that I wish Baldacci had written a sequel to because it just ended too abruptly, and some things were left unanswered.But I'm not gonna complain, it was a very enjoyable read, and highly recommended!
While seeing a psychiatrist in an attempt to understand what made him hold back, he investigates the shooting and uncovers a conspiracy involving drug dealers, white supremacists, undercover feds and a horse ranch.Spoilers follow...The biggest problem the book has is its hero.
Finally, toward the end, he has in his sniper sights a man who helped his investigation -- not to mention the guy was as much a victim of the conspiracy as Web -- and he threatens to kill him.
They could've had Web die in the shootout and had Cove be the hero trying to figure out what happened.
I gave up after only 100 pages.One hundred pages was enough for me to grow utterly indifferent to the fate of the book's protagonist, Web London, the FBI superagent who battles mysterious forces in his attempt to unravel the mystery of a disappeared African-American boy and the death by ambush of his elite team of shoot'em up good guys.It was also enough for me to feel I had experienced every single cliché in the genre: The cop hero being ordered to 'stay the hell away from this investigation', the obligatory weeping widows to whom the hero vows he will 'find those responsible', the tougher than tough macho man who is slowly destroying himself on the inside...It was also enough for me to cringe, literally cringe, at the racial stereotypes and the contrived dialogue.No fear of plot spoilers from this reviewer.
This really powerful FBI thriller was fast-paced, suspenseful, vivid and exciting; I found myself not wanting to put it down from the first page onwards and it was definitely worth reading.
This is the first Baldacci book I didn't enjoy.
6/10A run of the mill thriller story which was overly bloated with some interesting ideas which never really took off.The overall plot is quite a good idea with a SWAT team like leader taking his team into a situation which ends badly leaving him the "Last Man Standing".
This all happened relatively quickly in the book to say it is just over 550 pages and then teased out things that happened after which made the pace slow and ponderous.
The pacing of the book, because of the above, was very slow and didn't move on and found itself trying to develop conspiracy theories that weren't interesting.
A very interesting read – enjoyed the audio as this is a fast paced thriller! Action packed with suspense, plot twists and the main character Wed, a member of FBI HRT—leaving him the last man standing after a wipeout of the team. Taking you from the past to the present as you learn more – as he unravels the mystery with colorful characters along the way --- great job from Baldacci!
I’ve read several Baldacci novels and enjoyed them, but this one disappointed me.Cover blurbs call this book a ‘killer thriller’ and the action nearly nonstop.I disagree.
The nonstop action claimed on the cover slows to a walk (and sometimes stands on the sidewalk) too often.I expect a thriller to be a page turner.
That’s way too late in a thriller for the action to burst into a flat-out run.Sorry, Mr. Baldacci, you'll have to do better if you want me to read more of your work.

Some characters I felt like I didn’t know very well, or I would have liked to get to know them more, but in the end you knew everything you needed in order for the book to be successful.Like, straight up classic “how does that make you feel,” and “Let’s talk about your daddy issues.” At one point it felt like a parody it was so bad.
Clearly there was a lot of research done for this book what with all the locations and guns and FBI stuff.
Why a psychiatrist-study didn’t make the list I’ll never know.The book was exciting and fulfilling at the end.
I received this book as a birthday present and the gift brought a grateful smile to my face since I have enjoyed many of David Baldacci's novels, i.e., Absolute Power, A Simple Truth and others and within a few days I was reading Last Man Standing.
As an FBI hostage team assaulter he seemed more like a loose cannon rather than a team player which I suspect is the SOP for the FBI.
The story is plastered with police that have nothing to fill their time with except to shoot bazookas like guns and love every minute of their destruction.
The problems with this book are that it should've been at least 200 pages shorter, the story should've been more believable, and the ending should've been totally different.
He couldn't take 2 more pages to resolve the ending?
After slogging through so many unfulfilling, boring pages, that's ridiculous to me.
There were so many unnecessary characters in this that it was just bogged down, and all the false leads were ridiculous.
So, in conclusion, I slogged through this very boring and way too long book just to find out "who dun it".
I wish I'd read the reviews of this book first, and skipped it.
And a brief appearance by a topless porn star with breasts so enormous they almost hide her abdomen.
Most of the novel's fun bits were provided by Italian-American sidekick Paulie Romano.
Also, an interesting hint at where super-secret undercover FBI men can hide documents in plain sight.
But did Baldacci have to leave every last bit of his research in the novel?
Critical Mick says: Last Man Standing reads like a Jerry Bruckheimer / Michael Bay film that is so bad, it went beyond Straight-to-Video and into Straight-to-Novelization.Full review on criticalmick.com
Very disappointing. Can't believe this is from the same author that gave us "Memory Man". Just too much unnecessary detail, 100 words when 10 would have done, and far too long. It redeemed itself in the last 100 pages or so when it all came together and there was lots of action but not enough to deserve more than 2.5 stars.
Web London is an FBI agent in one of the 'special forces' called out in crisis situations. An inside informant led his team to such a situation and every member of his team was killed. He was the last man standing. Baldacci carves a great story into this nice, satisfying and delightfully fat book.
I thought that this was pretty silly. THis was my second Baldacci novel and it took me a few weeks to read. Just couldn't get into it. The storyline seemed contrived and the punchline left me with a lot to be desired. I may give DB another shot, but it'll be a while from now before i do.
Completely formulaic thriller -- cardboard characters, unbelievable situations. Baldacci at his best writes only serviceable thrillers, but this reads as if it was written by someone else.
The main character, Web, was a tormented soul.
I kept pulling for Web througout the book, but the conclusion suggests that he may never come to terms with all of his pent up issues.
So many of the characters end up dead which was a bit over the top for my taste.
It seemed that Baldacci killed off characters for gratuitous reasons.
Also, one character transforms 180 degrees within a couple of pages.
If you're a Baldacci fan, and I am one, you come to realize at the end that you've read some of his better efforts before Last Man Standing.
http://ajitabhpandey.info/2014/06/last-man-standing/Rescue Team which was all wiped out in a drug raid.
The story revolves around what happens in Web's life after that incident.
Determined to find the culprit, Web was struggling with personal psychological problems and also suspicions from his own FBI, he decided to take professional help from a psychiatrist.
In the process lot of interesting events unfolded including Web's previous visits to another psychiatrist and his undergoing hypnosis.The climax was somewhat unexpected and the actual culprit came as a surprise to me.
Lots of different scenarios keep on switching very fast and often the traction from the main plot was lost sometime.
Popcorn FBI book.
I read the Camel Club series by Baldacci, and while the names and background has changed you could have inserted the same chars here.
The rough FBI guy who each respects, but dislike become buds.
And there is this vast conspiracy where it looks like one thing, then no it's not!!!
Although the not wasn't really surprising as it was just like the other stories he has written.
The chars are nothing special, and I don't see myself likely continuing with the series (appeared to have a sequel coming).
If you read the Camel Club series you can probably be done with this author.
Not Baldacci's best effort. Too many characters and too many of them underdeveloped, especially the women. Finished it in spite of the fact that their were too many false leads. The book is not the usual crisp Baldacci product. Debated giving it two stars, but there was enough action to drag me to the end.
Interesting premise and story. Boring execution. Most of the book is spent repeating the same details of the main character's life, over and over and over again. And int he end they don't really end up being all that meaningful to the story's resolution.
I was glad to be done with this book. I can't recommend it. Too many cliches, and an implausable plot made it difficult to read.
Love Baldacci, but this book really needed to be edited down. Too long and too much.
I love David Baldacci's work. This one seemed like the early years. Lots of details... and as it was an audiobook no skimming!But I made it through the endless details and to the grit of the book.By mid-way it had picked up nicely and ended on a good note.Thought I had it solved ... HA! Nice twist David!
I liked this story - didn't see the ending coming until the last few chapters.
There was way too much going on in this book for me to like it much. I don't mind stories that twist and turn, but this one just felt convoluted and long, and the ending was hardly worth reaching.
