https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2120932.The_Battle_of_the_Labyrinth
this is my favorite in the series so far! let's see if the last olympian will top it. full video review coming sooooooon.
(A-) 83% | Very GoodNotes: It’s about awakenings, transgressive cracks, and how dread, desire and death indwell the formless chaos of potential.
I love the core trio (Percy, Annabeth and Grover) but the outliers that Rick Riordan has added on over the course of the series (like Tyson, Rachel Elizabeth Dare and Thalia) have grown on me as well.
Riordan doesn't disappoint with the setting either, instead he utilizes the magical properties of the Labyrinth to introduce a whole host of memorable locations, creatures and events.
While I think Riordan's ability to write characters and plot a story is definitely improving, in some ways I wish the prose would slow down a bit and describe things a little bit more.
SO MUCH YES.
Why did I wait so long to read these?
On the upside I don't have to agonize for the long wait for new books to come out, but still...
This time around Annabeth is in charge of the quest and they will have to find Daedalus, the creator of the Labyrinth, to stop Kronos from attacking Camp Half-Blood.
Can Percy, Annabeth, Grover, and Tyson solve the maze in time to find Daedalus before Luke does?
Percy is growing up." Just like they all are.
As you can tell I'm totally pumped to read the last book which I  know  will not disappoint.
At first I was going to rate it 4.5 stars, but that ending made me smile so much and I think that was what I've been looking for in this saga. I wanted a PJO book to end leaving me with a warm feeling in my heart and I didn't get it until this book <3. I love Nico so much. Also, I really like Poseidon :').So 5 stars!
I mean, the first, the second and the third book were all pretty good and they could make me laugh.
But this book, it wasn't funny and I might smiled once or twice but I didn't laugh and I also have this problem with Annabeth.
"So, Rachel," Annabeth said, "where are you from, exactly?"  She said it like, What planet are you from?
look, I don't know what was Annabeth's problem until she acted that way towards Rachel.
Tyson told Rachel she was pretty, which made Annabeth's nostrils flare like she was going to blow fire.
it's not like the first, the second or the third book.
And the Luke/Kronos plot comes to a bubble.I also liked the rather silly Mrs O'Leary hell hound and the issue of giant dog biscuits and squeaky pink full-sized buffalo chew toys.Normally the inconsistent level of farce and semi-seriousness would bug me, but the series' style and charm has somehow inured me to it.Celyn continues to make her 'yes' sign when I ask if I should give these books 5* and who am I to argue with the expert?
Percy hits 16 next book - should be fun!Join my 3-emails-a-year newsletter #prizes..
I know, I’m a mess.To be fair, every time I thought of actually  writing  a review for this series it just made me scream for the remaining hours of the day, like that’s how unstable I get.
How Uncle Rick manages this, I don’t know.Percy, my son, has the best luck in the world.
Not only does the mysterious mortal girl he met in the previous book appear during his freshman orientation, but he also manages to get on the bad side of demon cheerleaders.His life is a dream, I know.
And when you break a person, he can't be fixed.” 4.5 stars!!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I still have to write reviews for the previous TWO books in this series .
The Battle of the Labyrinth (Percy Jackson and the Olympians, #4), Rick RiordanThe Battle of the Labyrinth is a 2008 fantasy-adventure novel based on Greek mythology written by Rick Riordan.
It is the fourth novel in the Percy Jackson & the Olympians series.
The book follows the adventures of modern-day fifteen-year-old demigod Percy Jackson, the son of a mortal woman and the Greek god Poseidon.
داستان با این موضوع آغاز میشود که: لوک، از طریق هزارتوی ددالوس، قصد دارد به اردوگاه حمله کند.
آنابت، پرسی، گروور، و تایسون، به مقصدی خطرناک برای جلوگیری از این رخداد، راهی میشوند، یعنی به درون هـزارتوی ددالوس...
And also to find the god of wild, Pan, to save Grover's career.=> Characters of Percy and Annabeth were the best in this book.
Although the narration of Percy became less humorous, I still loved this book.
I must admit that the prophecy of this quest wasn't that amazing.
Anyway, I didn't pay much attention to this fact as I was so busy in enjoying this book.
In this book, she played a significant role.
It can be ignored.=> The quest was amazing!
Unlike the previous book, in which three returned safely.Overall, I loved this.
This series gets better with each book!
part four in what I call the “I cry about my childhood and ignore real life” program
It was the best book of the series so far. Wow. Percy. Annabeth. Nico. Holy crap. So good.. So good. (And let's not mention the kiss. Okay bye.)
After a week of some truly disappointing reads, I am thoroughly glad to say that  Percy Jackson and The Battle of The Labyrinth  lived up to my expectations and was utterly engaging................................Half-boy, half-God Percy Jackson starts off the new school year by battling a pair of ‘ Empousai ’ and blowing up his school. Again. He also runs into Rachel Elizabeth Dare, the mysterious mortal girl who can see through the mist. It’s time to head back to Camp Half-Blood, because troub
lived up to my expectations and was utterly engaging................................Half-boy, half-God Percy Jackson starts off the new school year by battling a pair of ‘
Kronos' plan is to invade Camp Half-Blood, raze it to the ground along with it’s heroes and then head off to destroy the Olympians.Although the camp members were under the impression that Camp Half-Blood was impenetrable, they soon realize that Luke intends to invade it through one of the exits of the famous underground Labyrinth.
Percy and gang decide to head into the Labyrinth themselves and discover Daedalus’s (the creator of the Labyrinth) workshop, so that they can find a way to stop the invasion.Piece o'cake, right?
Complete 5 Golden Starsmy favourite one in the series (actually it was so hard to choose one as favourite because I love 3rd & 5th too!)all the funny comments & sarcasms,all the thrilling adventures,the cool & creepy labyrinth itself,etc etc.made this book so amazing!tbh, I don't assume Percy Jackson as middle grade.
I read some real middle grade ones this year & they were just okay-ish (not even sure if I will continue them or not tho).
but anything Rick Riordan writes, is perfectly well for my age too.
(my first read of his series was 3 years ago, when I was 22.
Bisher mein liebster Band der Reihe - glaube ich zumindest.
Der Schreibstil war wie gewohnt leicht und humorvoll, genau das richtige um als Bettlektüre nach einem langen und anstrengenden Tag herzuhalten.Ich mochte den Plot hier echt gerne, die ganze Story um das Labyrinth mit Dädalus und Co. Einziges Manko waren für mich ein paar kleine Logikfehler und dass Rick Riordan anscheinend nicht allzu fokussiert auf den Zeitstrang war 🤷🏼‍♀️😅Und das Ende hat mich echt neugierig auf den letzten Band gemacht, vielleicht schaffe ich es ja die Reihe noch dieses Jahr zu beenden 😅💪🏻
Another super fun adventure with Percy and the gang. <3 Can I just get a whole series about Tyson? RTC!
“Be careful of love. It'll twist your brain around and leave you thinking up is down and right is wrong.”  My favorite of this series. Everything in The Battle of the Labyrinth has developed from the last book. The relationship of Percy and Annabeth is more complicate, I see how much they grow up and the others facets of these characters. Likewise, the plot is smart and intricate with getting lost in the labyrinth, we'll see many unexpected things happen through the book. “Don't feel bad, I'm u
Everything in The Battle of the Labyrinth has developed from the last book.
Likewise, the plot is smart and intricate with getting lost in the labyrinth, we'll see many unexpected things happen through the book.
Finding Daedalus in the labyrinth is hardship for Percy and the others.
I loved Nico, he's just adorable and has his style which impressed me so much.
And I see some potentials between Percy and Nico, when Nico feels lonely and insecure, Percy is the one being with him, and I was so glad.All in all, The Battle of the Labyrinth is so amazing.
Okay, so this is probably my favorite book in the Percy Jackson series so far!!
I loved all of the characters in this book, but my favorites would definitely have to be Annabeth and Percy!!!!!
"squeals" :D This book was very action-packed and fast-paced to me and I enjoyed it very much.
I am so glad that I stared this series, but I am also so sad because there is only one book left :( I am trying to decide if I should just read The Last Olympian now, or wait so I won't be finished with the series lol :p
WOW. This series is getting so intense and I can't wait to see how the final book plays out! Although I enjoyed this book, it was a little repetitive at times and my interest wavered. However, I will definitely be picking up the last book soon!
This was happy and sad at the same time. *sigh*
REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOK MY FAVORITE FROM THIS SERIES, SO FAR.I'm crossing my fingers that the last book would be even better!Usually, I hate series, and I tend to stop mid-series run because I get bored or lose interest. That isn't the case with this one. I am absolutely, irrevocably, hooked with The Percy Jackson world, and I would, most definitely, read the other spin-off series.RICK RIORDAN, you are amazing! Keep these myth-inspired books coming! LONG STORY SHORT A lost GodLove-squar
I am absolutely, irrevocably, hooked with The Percy Jackson world, and I would, most definitely, read the other spin-off series.RICK RIORDAN, you are amazing!
I liked that Rick Riordan did not forget this when he wrote about Percy.
One thing I would like to commend Riordan is how he didn't push for these two to be together right away.
It could seem like you're walking for an hour in the same line, but before you know it, you're coming out of the Labyrinth from the opposite side of the world from which you came in from.
Boy, did I enjoy this book. I have yet to read The Last Olympian, but I'm pretty sure this one is best one in the series.
CAN I JUST SAY THAT I HAVE WARMED UP TO ABSOLUTELY LOVE THESE BOOKS?!!
And in the end (view spoiler)[ Nico just leaves Camp Half Blood really thinking he has no friends.
I mean, it wasn't sad, and the very last page is him returning to talk to Percy...but I would've loved it if Percy had just kiiiind of dropped hints that he wanted to be friends.
*sigh*  (hide spoiler)]As always the way the Greek myths are modernised are THE BEST.
I seriously love Annabeth.
And they dropped so many hints that Kronos is really controlling Luke that I've started to wonder how much has even BEEN Luke in these last few books.
ANOTHER AMAZING 5 STARS FOR AN AMAZING BOOK
As much as I love this one I still prefer the previous book, The world building and writing just keeps getting better. Annabeth finally gets her dream and leads this quest into the Labyrinth to hunt for Deadelas(not sure I spelt that well).Annabeth was a bitch almost throughout the book, I just do not get her loyalty to Luke despite everything, I wonder why Percy even puts up with that.I so did not know about this before ‘Percy, you know how Athena was born?’‘She sprang from the head of Zeus in
Annabeth finally gets her dream and leads this quest into the Labyrinth to hunt for Deadelas(not sure I spelt that well).Annabeth was a bitch almost throughout the book, I just do not get her loyalty to Luke despite everything, I wonder why Percy even puts up with that.I so did not know about this before
‘Percy, you know how Athena was born?’‘She sprang from the head of Zeus in full battle armour or something.’‘Exactly.
Tyson is also in this, I so love the big guy, his loyalty to his brother and friends is so admirable, him and Grover finally got along in this.
The simplistic writing style fits any age, and the humor and fun adventures speak to the inner child I have tucked somewhere in my head.The quests aren’t as intense as some of the previous novels, but the main focus is a confusing Labyrinth that has a long and twisted backstory.
We get glimpses into the past to see the building of the Labyrinth and all the characters involved with it – fascinating stuff, especially a horribly sad scene with the creator’s son.
Calypso’s scenes were top of the series as a whole.Pretty much every book starts with Percy getting into trouble at school somehow, and this one isn’t an exception.
Percy and his friends go into Labyrinth and Grover succeeds in finding Pan.Daedalus, the creator of Labyrinth decides to help Percy at-last and dies for the Labyrinth destruction. Luke gave his body as a host for Kronos.And as I expected Mr. D has been a praiseworthy character since he cured the half-blood who'd gone insane in the Labyrinth.The story keeps getting better with every single book along with the writing style and humor.
MY MOST FAVORITE SO FAR. I AM DECEASED.
