https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/135611.Shakespeare
I'm really not a fan of Shakespeare but reading this book really did help explain his popularity, at least in my mind.
I enjoyed the book though, I learnt a lot I didn't know before and I think the author did a good job going over the information we have about Shakespeare as well as the popular theories involving him, especially all the things about who actually wrote the plays attributed to Shakespeare.
Also I really appreciated that he acknowledged that Shakespeare doesn't make any sense some times because for some reason everyone seems resistant to agreeing when I mention it, but come on some times the writing is incoherent.
Bryson himself says that the world does not need yet another biography but the series Eminent Lives by Harper-Collins did.And we are glad they did.
We get to hear about urban development and palaces in London, about the state of its hygiene and health, about life expectancy and children death-rate, about the set-up of schools and academic curricula, about the making of books and theatrical practices, and about the functioning of the legal system, etc.For a better assimilation of the capsule, Bryson needs to correct our modern expectations, and remind us that to know so little about a sixteenth century craftsman is nothing out of the ordinary.
This is a very strange and frustrating book: • It reads like a lighthearted text book for teenagers/high school - except that it has no index (a cardinal sin for any non-fiction book). • It is about a wordsmith, but the first chapter focuses on what he may have looked like. • Its mission and content is to tell us about Shakespeare, yet it tells us in exhaustive and repetitive detail that almost nothing is or can be known about the man ("a wealth of text but poverty of context").Irrelevant FactsT
Absence of FactsAll the way through, Bryson alternates between cagtaloguing all the unknowns of Shakespeare's life and trying to describe it; consequently, his text is heavily sprinkled with "probably" and other, even weaker caveats.
Related to that, Shakespeare is credited with coining huge numbers of words, but in truth, it’s often just that his texts are the oldest authentic documents to use them; we don’t know if he actually coined them, or they were common parlance down his way (as Blackadder said to Dr Johnson in my favourite episode: Ink and Incapability - but the link isn't to that line).
It is by choosing a gift to the biography department that my eye has been attracted by this little pocket lost in the middle of other historical bios.
This was the case with most of the known authors of the 16th century in England who left no trace of them either.
This book tells us in great lengths that there is nothing to affirm, about the man Shakespeare was, on his emotional side, about his sexuality.
Bryson imagines Shakespeare in the hard times of the 16th century.
A short, witty, highly readable biography of the Bard by one of the our best beloved writers. Bryson doesn't go incredibly in-depth with this work but I applaud him on that. A lot of biographies can be bogged down by completely unnecessary information which causes the page number to rise to the thousands. This 200-page biog contains about as much information as we casual readers need on Shakespeare. I would definitely include it on a list as one of my most enjoyable biographies in recent memory.
The size of London, the way it nestled inside the city walls, people packed in there like sardines; the diseases that swept the city (and England) every few years, particularly the Plague; the fact that the first theaters were made to locate outside the city walls, in a horrible “suburbs” filled with tanning houses, brothels, graveyards, and other dreadful establishments and waste areas that must have presented theater-goers with a number of sensory (olfactory) challenges.Bryson presents a great number of interesting comparisons between the Shakespeare we know, and his fellow playwrights of the era: John Fletcher, Ben Johnson, Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Kyd, Thomas Decker, John Webster, Cyril Tourneur and others.
As well as being utterly frank about what we do (or more to the point) do not know about William Shakespeare.As a reader of Bryson's books and somewhat of a Shakespeare obsessive (it took me around 30 years to see theatre productions of all 37 of his plays – many several times) I had high hopes for this book and wasn’t disappointed.Above all, what Bryson has given us here is a celebration and a very good one, of the staggering and awe inspiring literary genius that was and always will be William Shakespeare.
In this relatively slim volume (it's less than 200 pages), Bryson researched what few facts are known about Shakespeare and synthesized them into chapters on his childhood, his "lost years" (1585-1592), his time in London, his plays, his fame, his death and, finally, the strange claims that Shakespeare did not write the works attributed to him.Like most Americans, I was first introduced to Shakespeare in high school, when we read Romeo and Juliet, Hamlet, and a few of his sonnets.
After reading Bryson's book, I feel like I know as much as any modern person can know, simply because so few facts have survived.
Secondly, there isn't much known about Shakespeare, so biographies of him should be short.
I'm glad Bryson touched on the authorship question.
"Did Shakespeare write all this stuff?" I entertained the notion when I encountered it back in school, but having looked at the evidence and given it a good think, I've come to the conclusion that it is a ludicrous question.
Bryson agrees and lays out why.Is this a scholarly work?
After all (and for example) one of the leading proponents of the anti-Shakespeare movement was a woman who wanted to claim all of the plays for her cousin Sir Francis Bacon.
Looking for a basic bio on Shakespeare?
I am not a big fan of either audio books or Shakespeare, but I needed a short something to listen to recently.
It was only 5.5 hrs longSo I listened to this one and was pleasantly entertained and learned a lot of very interesting things presented in an amusing way.
One of the things I learned is that Bill Bryson has a very British accent after having lived in England for many years, despite the fact that he was born and raised in Iowa.
Not a bad way to spend a few hours, but still not a fan of audio books.
The Droeshout engraving of Shakespeare, authenticatedas a true likeness by Ben Johnson.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~When I worked as a secretary on a tabloid newspaper, many years ago, journalists writing stories based only only a few facts would say they were 'cooking with gas'. This is a cheerful and entertaining read where Bryson is doing just that - so little is known about Shakespeare's life. Yet I think he does a great job. He talks about Tudor England - and the general exper
Of the approximate three thousand plays thought to have been staged in London from about the time of Shakespeare's birth to the closure of the theatres by the Puritans in 1642, 80 per cent are known only by title....The madness of (some) scholarsFaced with a wealth of text but a poverty of context, scholars have focused obsessively on what they can know.
Shakespeare Quarterly the most exhaustive of bibliographers, logs about four thousand serious new works - books, monographs, other studies - every year.An aside.....the madness of sugar in Tudor EnglandPeople of all classes loved their foods sweet.
What a great entertaining listen! I listened to it on my way to work and doing the dishes this week. I did not get bored one minute - full of interesting facts about Shakespeare's life and his times. Entertaining, erudite and fun. Now, that's a combo hard to beat.
After reading this book I have learned loads about Shakespeare - NOT!
My best memory of learning about Shakespeare was being asked to write an essay on the use of natural symbolism in "A Winters Tale".
Being a slightly cocky and beligerent teenager I turned in an essay entitled "Why Shakespeare is literatures greatest plagiarist", obviously this was not well received but having read this book I think some of my points were pretty salient.This book essentially poses more questions rather than answers; Was Shakespeare gay?
Over the centuries, then, it has led to wild speculation about Shakespeare's life on the part of thousands, and an entire wing of academic study about the man so in the center of all Western artistic thought.So for those like me who hardly know anything about the subject, Bill Bryson's new book Shakespeare: The World as Stage is going to be a godsend; it is a tight, funny 200-page overview of what exactly we factually know about the man and what we don't, peppered with a lot of anecdotes about the various crackpots over the years who have gotten obsessed with the question.
This man was so good as disguising his feeling that we can’t ever be sure that he had any. In many ways Shakespeare is the perfect subject for a Bryson book. Shakespeare scholars have included some colorful and eccentric characters—such as Delia Bacon and J. Thomas Looney—which is one of Bryson’s specialties. Shakespeare is also sufficiently mysterious, most of his life being buried in the oblivion of history—an important thing for Bryson, who is attracted to gaps in our knowledge. Two more of
In many ways Shakespeare is the perfect subject for a Bryson book.
Shakespeare is also sufficiently mysterious, most of his life being buried in the oblivion of history—an important thing for Bryson, who is attracted to gaps in our knowledge.
More than any other author, Shakespeare attracts untold myths, legends, theories, and pure idolatry; but Bryson’s approach is cool and investigative.
You might say the book is limited to this investigative track.
Bryson is no literary critic and does not attempt any serious appreciation of Shakespeare’s works.
I know it marks me out as a bit freaky, but I'll admit it anyway: I would give a lot to be able to go and spend 18 hours a day studying cramped and often faded and illegible 16th century documents looking for mentions of Shakespeare.
For a book like this I need to be able to flip back and see what year the will was found, and remind myself of names of the Folger Library archivists Bryson talked to, and how many Shakespeare-related publications he mentioned were there, and so on.
Shakespeare went out and observed, and read, and talked to lawyers.
I can't say I know much more about Sweet Will now than I did before reading the book, but Bryson is not to blame.
Furthermore, no one anticipated Shakespeare's enduring popularity, so they weren't clamoring to write his biography while he was still alive.
If not for the dedicated efforts of John Heminges and Henry Condell in compiling the First Folio, eighteen of Shakespeare's plays would probably have been lost to us.
Both men were dead by 1630, only seven years after the First Folio was published.Bryson succeeds admirably in providing a context for Shakespeare's life and works.
Nobody even interviewed his surviving relatives and friends about him -- the first biography came out a hundred years after his death and has been proved to be mostly wrong anyway.So you can't get any image of this guy at all, unless you read way too far into his plays/sonnets and assume that he's speaking as himself (which, if you try it, just gets you tons of contradictions).Oh, and even the plays/poems themselves -- there's no real definitive version: he never published his works himself, so all the versions we have are either heavily edited by his contemporaries or bad transcriptions by audience members.
Only one man had the circumstances and gifts to give us such incomparable works, and William Shakespeare of Stratford was unquestionably that man- whoever he was.
:)I hope I'm not maligning Bryson more than is strictly speaking necessary by saying this feels like a book one could write in a week or three via google.
Black is the badge of hell, The hue of dungeons, and the school of night; And beauty's crest becomes the heavens well.he says 'What exactly he means by 'the school of the night' is really anybody's guess.'This suggests to me a complete ignorance of the idea of The School of Night which for a period kept some academics in wages and the masses like me entertained.
It's a lovely romantic idea that completely fits the period.
From my limited experience with author biographies, I've learned that the less I know about an author, the happier I am.
The aim of this slender book is to collect all of what we know about Shakespeare, which is precious little indeed.
He died in April of 1616, shortly after finishing his will, in which he left his wife only his second best bed, a fact that strikes me as both hilarious and deeply sad.
Most importantly, however, we know that this Shakspere fellow wrote some vastly important and deeply beloved literature and it's a blessing and nearly a miracle that we have them.
An entire book that basically talks about how little there is to talk about what the book is supposed to talk about!The fact is, and this is something that was a bit of an eye-opener for me, we hardly know anything about Shakespeare the person.
Bryson comes at his subject as a sort of curator, rifling through what is known and inferred about Shakespeare as a man, allowing for detours into epistemological commentary.
(Though in the interest of full disclosure, I am predisposed to think Bill Bryson would entertain even if writing about, say, mosses.) Many people like to call him "readable." I think this readability comes from his talent for choosing exactly the most perfectly efficient words to articulate a given thought.
But he supports his view, at least to my standards, adequately.And finally, it just occured to me that Bill Bryson did indeed entertain me when he wrote about mosses: pages 427 - 429 in  A Short History of Nearly Everything.
Definitely a good read but not the best book Bryson has ever written. I really love Shakespeare and was therefore fascinated to find out how little we actually know about him and how much we simply assume. Hence, really interesting. But, sadly, not as funny as other books by Bryson.
This is a great introduction to Shakespeare and probably one of the best biographies you can read about a man we know so much, yet so little about. It explains why facts are missing, what we can conjecture and why people still read and love his work today.
বিল বরাইসনের লেখার সাথে পরথম পরিচয় ঘটেছিল তাঁর লেখা “A Short History of Nearly Everything” পড়ে। বরাইসনের পরাঞজল ভাষায় বিজঞানের জানা বিষয় গুলি নতুন করে পড়ে ভীষণ ভকত হয়ে গিয়েছিলাম লেখকের। এরপর একদিন নীলকষেতে ঘুরতে ঘুরতে হঠাৎ নজরে পড়ে যায় একসাথে সারিবদধ করে রাখা বরাইসনের লেখা পুরনো কিনতু ঝকঝকে কয়েকটি পেপারবযাক। সেদিন দেরি না করে কিনে ফেলেছিলাম “The Lost Continent”, “Notes from a Small Island”, “A Walk in the Woods” এবং “Shakespeare: The World as Stage”।শেষোকত বইটি পড়ে শেষ করলাম এক বসায়। আমার ইংরেজি

He does so to great effect in Shakespeare, his two-hundred-page biography of the man affectionately known as the Bard, which will delight Shakespeare aficionados as well as people who know virtually nothing about Stratford's most famous export product, such as myself.
On top of pointing out fatal flaws in the various authors' reasoning (often in a single sentence), Bryson observes with great relish that three of the many, many people who have come up with outlandish theories on the authorship of Shakespeare's plays were called Silliman, Battey and Looney.
I love details like that, which more serious scholars would be too polite to point out.
It's a quick read and is ideal for any student who is starting at in the study of Shakespeare.
For a long time student, the best bit of the book is the last chapter where Bryson demolished the "Shakespeare didn't write Shakespeare" heretics, sillies, nutters, people's arguments.Overall Bryson simply presents the facts and doesn't not speculate or guess (I love what he said about A.
While overall Bryson presents a very even handed description of Shakespeare's marriage, he does slip in a strange word.
I wonder if Shakespeare had been eight years older than his bride if Bryson would have used "considerably older husband".
If you ever wanted to read about conspiracy theories - this book could easily have been called Shakespeare, the theories.The riches this man brought to our language are staggering, not just in terms of his plays, but the number of words he brought into the language and the seemingly endless quotable quotes that are now virtually cliches.This was a quick and easy read and quite a fun read.
I don't know if it will improve my understanding of Shakespeare's plays or poetry, but a good read all the same.

