https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/560930.China_to_Me
And that really wasn't interesting.One of the themes of the book was Hahn's writing a book about the Soong Sisters, who were prominent in Chinese politics of the time.
In the meanwhile, Hahn continued to drop names of random people as if we were all friends and the reader should somehow know who they were and be interested in them.
There is very little political analysis of whatever is happening, despite there being a war going on.
The readers of the time would also have been acquainted with the endless cast of uninteresting characters who probably made it to the tabloids every Sunday.
In 1940 Hahn traveled inland to the mountainous city of Chungking (now Chongqing) to interview one of the Soong sisters, who I’m ashamed to say I had never heard of, for a book she was writing about the family.
This memoir is well over 400 pages, and I did find myself skimming at times, but like many of my favorite books, China to Me sent me into passionate internet research mode, and it’s added several titles to my TBR list--I for sure have to read Hahn’s book about the Soong sisters.
Writer Emily Hahn - known to her friends as Mickey - traveled from the USA to China in 1935 and she didn't come home until she was repatriated - with her daughter - in 1943.She hadn't intended to stay for so long, but she found so many reasons to stay and establish a life there.She was offered an interesting job, in newspaper journalism; and that led her into a business partnership and a romantic alliance with her - married - Chinese publisher.She mixed with the rich and powerful, mainly British and other European expatriates.She found and furnished an apartment in Shanghai's red light district, and she kept a pet gibbon who she named Mr. Mills and who often accompanied her to social events.Starting to read this book was a little like stepping into a party not knowing any of the other guests and catching the voice of a warm and witty raconteur with a great deal to talk about.
I was hoping that this memoir of an American woman living and working in 1936 Shanghai would be evocative of the time, but she spends a lot of her time writing sbout the socializing and local politics, all which would have been relevant to a reader at that time, but left me feeling kind of lost. Couldn't finish it.
This is like the most ladylike book ever.
You can look at any bio of her for the big picture, but it doesn't get across the blithe and casual way she runs her terribly topical and engaging social life.
You might overlook her as being too ladylike and engaging to be serious, but she has a very firm way of telling a story by merely setting the events out and not making pronouncements about their meaning.ETA: If you read it, get ready for some terribly ladylike racism, but it's okay.
In spite of all the airy things I had been saying about rape, now that I thought my time had come I was so afraid of it that I turned to jelly.Along the way she occasionally finds time to write a poem or to analyze, cold-bloodedly, the political use of rape, or to point out that all the English and American journalists didn’t know diddly about the communists in China (which made the book anathema to certain journalists in the USA).Here is how her baby came about — she had dinner at a restaurant with Charles (her lover) and some guests.
Is it a catalogue of names and events recorded for posterity?
The first third of the book sheds light on Mickey's character as well as the life of foreigners living in China in the 1930's.
The remainder describes life in Hong Kong during the Japanese occupation.
In the center of it all is a love story which might be the essence of minimialism, presented in such a matter of fact way that the reader knows it was completely different.Her experiences during the occupation of Hong Kong seem at odds with the stories that came out of the internment camps.
In her autobiographical writing, Hahn is brutally honest about her complicated life and nobody could ever accuse her of taking the easy road.
(Please note, I last read this book a number of years ago and also her biography so some of this may have shown up in the bio instead of the memoir.) I once had a professor at Yale tell me about having dinner with Hahn and Boxer many years later and he remembered that at the end of the meal Hahn dumped a vase of water over Boxer's head when he flirted with a young woman at their table.
This is essentially a travelogue from an American journalist/adventurer-ess in China prior to and during the Japanese invasion of China.
The style of the book was a little off-putting at first.
It is very "chatty" and extremely detailed in terms of people and places.
It takes time to grasp all the people she describes only to have her then move to another city and introduce a whole new pack.
The events that she witnessed and the live she lived make for a fascinating read, if you have a little time and patience.
Just waiting for a train wreckHigh tales of China in the 30's and 40's. I amazed that the author through good fortune rather than good planning emerges unscathed . The real China and Hong Kong don't seem to emerge. Rather tales revolve around the high and mighty; the coolies are coolies and the servants have at least names.
Wow, what an amazing life this woman lead, from the high life of an ex-pat in Shanghai in 1935 to starvation in Hong Kong under the Japanese. And all written without a self-pitying attitude, she was quite a character.
Very interesting to hear first-hand experience of someone during the invasion of China by the Japanese and occupation of Hong Kong.More interesting to read from a reporter's perspective at that time.Even more interesting to read from a western, female reporter's perspective.
Just starting this in bits and chunks.
From the jacket flap: "This book has not been condensed. Its bulk is less because of government paper quota regulations on all publishers."It has an EH monogram embossed on the front cover.
I was a boy and learned about the adventures of a courageous woman missionary in China during WWII. I would like to know more about Emily Hahn, the author.
