https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764165.The_Snow_Leopard
I read the Snow Leopard after I read his obit three weeks ago and discovered he was the only person (?) to win the National Book Award for BOTH fiction and nonfiction.
I figured 'The Snow Leopard' was a good place to start.
Part travel writing, part nature writing, part spiritual journey, this book has it all.
At its heart Matthiessen is traveling with his field biologist friend George Schaller (GS) into the remote mountains of Nepal to study the Blue Sheep and hopefully see the elusive snow leopard (and hell, maybe a Yeti).
I’m mostly writing it for myself, but you are welcome to come along for my (reading) journey.The Snow Leopard is one of the best and important books I have ever read, and I finally read it not in some hippie solo way or at an Ashram or something, but on a one-month road trip (in a mini-van, no less, ha!) with three kids and my wife, making a big western circle of the U.S., leaving Chicago and going through Montana to Seattle, down the Oregon coastline to Monterey Bay, across the desert (stopping at Vegas for a day, which was of course surreal in comparison with everything else), through the Rockies and across the Great Plains back home.
This is a beautiful book about a personal and physical journey in Nepal by Peter Matthiessen. It is also a spiritual journey where the goal becomes completely interiorized by the author as it progresses. A wonderful book for meditation on higher values in these times of, well, no values.
Well, it might have been shelved with books on science, but despite the title there's really little here about the snow leopard and not enough really about nature.
I found his attitude towards the Sherpas and porters all the more annoying because some of them shared his faith--at one point he compares amulets with one of them--and yet he displays plenty of condescension towards them--describing them more than once as "childlike." Admittedly, I don't agree with his philosophy, though after reading Thich Nhat Hanh, Thoreau and Emerson and Joseph Campbell within the last few months, I also felt as if the way Matthiessen conveyed Buddhist philosophy was trite.
I really took my time with this book.
I didn't want to be disturbed by the sounds of subway trains, interrupted by phone calls or daily trivialities.
This wasn't a read I just 'fit in' but truly savored.
And oh, my heart hurts a little now that it is over.
It is a slow book, and thus may not appeal to those looking for action or conclusion even.
It is a book that celebrates the spark of life that propels us towards transcending our heavy human existence in pursuit of something...more.
Unfortunately, these are too few and too far between for my enjoyment.I read 85 pages, then skimmed/skipped to the end.
He simply included a very short letter from George Schaller which briefly stated that he did manage to see one in the end (and after Matthiessen had returned home).
(hide spoiler)]I get that there may be some beauty in Matthiessen's writing, his musings, and his dealing with grief after the loss of his wife, but all that esoteric babble just isn't for me, especially not when I expected the book to focus more on the expedition and the wildlife.
THE SNOW LEOPARD was a book I nearly didn't finish. It does get trying in some parts. This is one of the few books that I actually had a dream about while reading it. It seemed profound at the time, and I was very glad that I soldiered on to the end of Matthiessen's wonderful story.
Matthiessen was a novice at this kind of extreme expedition, as who among us wouldn't be, yet turned in 10- and 12- hour days walking up and down icy, fragile, whip-thin mountain trails.
The power of it is such that, a couple of weeks ago, walking before the rest of the world was awake, in a city park after a snowfall, I saw a pure cobalt sky and brilliant, glittering snow with Peter Matthiessen eyes.Here's a quote from page 73 of the Penguin edition:"From deep in the earth, the roar of the river rises.
However the third of the book that was the hiking expedition and the third that was about the flora and fauna was great, and I am glad I persisted.Despite a few more forays into the spiritual journey, the expedition and scientific research parts of the book are much more heavily featured in the following chapters.The book is Matthiessen's account of his two months in Nepal, in 1973.
There are interludes of wolf, snow leopard, various birdlife, yeti and the interactions with the Tibetan / Nepalese passing through, and with Schaller and the sherpa, all of which make fascinating reading.The journey out has them heading further west, to Jumla, near the Indian border, from where they can fly back to Kathmandu.

You do get a feel for how liberating, calming, centering, that it would be to walk out of the modern world to the cold and quiet mountains and let it all go…all the complications and illusions of life.
I think if this were a different book I would like it better…but these people, this place…his attempt to be 'zen' all the time, it just feels detached and that we are missing lots of wonderful, dirty, complicated, vivid stuff.
Perhaps Tukten would have shown him the real people, the real place that he was walking past in his 'bubble'...
I am here to be here, like these rocks and sky and snow, like this hail that is falling down out of the sun." -p.108"This wayfaring in shifting sun, in snow and cloud worlds, so close to the weather, makes me happy; the morbid feeling of this dawn has passed away.
I would like to reach the Crystal Monastery, I would like to see a snow leopard, but if I do not, that is all right, too.
I decided it was time to give this memoir, The Snow Leopard (1978) recounting his climb of Mount Everest in search of Blue Sheep and a quest to spot the elusive snow leopard a try.The Line – On Acceptance In its wholehearted acceptance of what is, this is just what Soen Roshi might have said: “I feel as if he had struck me in the chest.
Isn’t that wonderful?”The Sinker – Having read many recent books capturing a climb of the famous Mount Everest, the pacing of The Snow Leopard initially left me cold.
“Amazingly, we take for granted that instinct for survival, fear of death, must separate us from the happiness of pure and uninterrupted experience in which body, mind, and nature and the same.” (42) Matthiessen’s book is part travelogue, part naturalist observations, and part coming to terms with loss. About a year after the death of his wife, Matthiessen travels along with a friend in search of a snow leopard, really in the search of big blue sheep. It’s much hiking and camping, and eating. Ea
“Amazingly, we take for granted that instinct for survival, fear of death, must separate us from the happiness of pure and uninterrupted experience in which body, mind, and nature and the same.” (42)	Matthiessen’s book is part travelogue, part naturalist observations, and part coming to terms with loss.
It’s a book about coming to terms with one’s self, with loss, with life.
Or what “Walt Whitman celebrated the most ancient secret, that no God could be found more divine than yourself” (63)	The point is that Matthiessen is able to make this a book about enlightenment, both his and the readers, so much so that one does agree with GS who wonders if it would perhaps be better if the snow leopard remained unseen.
I started reading this book, expecting to enjoy it. I love travelogues, natural history and animal discoveries, studying animal behavior... and I put this book down. Matthiessen's tone drove me bonkers. I may try it again later. He is not a lens through which to observe a part of the world...it's all about him, and, quite frankly, I found him boring.
"Crezco en estas montañas como el musgo.
También estoy enamorado de los milagros corrientes: el murmullo de mis amigos al llegar la noche, los fuegos de enebro humeante en hornos de barro, los alimentos toscos e insípidos, las privaciones y la sencillez, la satisfacción de no hacer más que una cosa en cada momento: cuando cojo la taza azul de estaño, eso es todo lo que hago.
No hemos tenido noticias de lo que pasa en el mundo desde finales de septiembre, seguiremos sin tenerlas hasta diciembre y, poco a poco, la mente se me ha ido aclarando y el viento y el sol me pasan por la cabeza como si fuese una campana.
Read this, which I've had for years, in 3 days.
Brilliant, vivid account of Matthiessen's journey with a biologist and a team of porters and sherpas through the quiet, snow-covered and strange Himalayas.
The biologist is seeking to observe the rutting of the region's unique blue sheep.
Matthiessen is seeking an encounter with the more secret snow leopard, a not-so-vieled metaphor to the real substance of the journey, which is a quest for enlightenment.
Interwoven are reflections on the history of (mostly Zen) Buddhism, his own acquaintance with zen practice and heartwrenching remembrances of his late wife and her death from cancer.
Lovely! This is mostly travel, but also part reminiscence, part religion and part natural history. It is one of the most nicely written travel works I have read. Matthiesen’s descriptions of nature are stunning. My reading speed slowed down due to his style.Mattiesen’s travels were as much an inner journey as a journey to Inner Dolpo in Tibet studying sheep and hoping to glimpse the reclusive snow leopard. Travel is not just about visiting faraway places, but can also be a lot closer than we think.If you’re in the mood for a deep travel read, then this will do nicely.
This one of those books, that make you think deeply about the greatness of nature and how small mankind is.
I'll make this book one of my all time favorites, because when I finished it, I wanted to start reading it again.
There's so much in it to think about and so much that I missed reading this first time.
I have a crush on countries with mountains, and especially those with snowcovered caps.
Whenever I'm is Switzerland, or Norway I'm enjoying the great glaciers: those mighty rivers of ice.
Long after we will be gone, those mountains will still stand.
This memoir chronicles, in the form of a daily log, the months-long trek Matthiessen took in the Himalaya with legendary wildlife biologist George Schaller.
GS had planned the expedition to observe montane wildlife - primarily the snow leopard and its prey, the blue sheep.
Their ultimate destination was a range so remote it was nearly impenetrable by travelers and its villages seemed lost in time.
But Matthiessen's observations of both his inner and outer worlds are *astonishing* in their simplicity and clarity.
Like scripture, this book should be published in a hardbound pocket-sized edition; right now I want to keep it with me at all times.
Whilst they are on there, they are hoping to spot a snow leopard, a rare almost mythical creature, that Schaller has glimpsed very occasionally.Matthiessen is a Zen Buddhist, and this for him is as much a spiritually journey as a physical one, and he uses the metaphorical journey to look back at events in his life, including the death of his wife.
I thought that the title was a bit of misnomer as they are trying to find the snow leopard, and though they do find evidence of them, they never see one.
Read years before as a young man interested in travel/nature writing: recently, I lost one of my beloved dogs and so I read this again more as a journey about mourning and exploring Buddhist principles. Really a beautiful book that one can get a good feel for by sharing a haiku written by the field biologist Matthiessen accompanies through this Himalayan region:Cloud-men beneath loads.A dark line of tracks in Snow.Suddenly nothing.
An often-lovely meditation on an extended climbing/scientific expedition/meditation thing.
So noting that the journey is more important than the destination fits here, in a book whose title refers to the author's quest to view the snow leopard in its Himalayan habitat during a perilous late fall journey to the remote Dolpo region of Nepal, an area so far from the rest of the world that the author's traveling companion notes the total absence of machine sound, even the engine noise of a plane.
Like all good travel writers, he gives more than just descriptions (although his descriptions of the mountains and their people are stunning).
But this work is more than a travelogue, it is a journey of spiritual quest and discovery for the author with the elusive Snow Leopard serving as a token of his goal.
Accompanied by a world renowned expert on the Himalayan Blue Sheep, the scientific goal of the trip is to climb high enough to watch the rut.
The author however worries throughout about becoming snowed in and not making it back home for the holidays.
Well worth reading for the journey and the insights and lessons that the author an adherent of Zen experiences.
Actual Rating: 4.5This book has been a very refreshing and a peaceful read.In the beginning, Mr. Pico Iyer introduces this book as a mystical book which takes you on a journey in Himalayas where you can feel each and every blister on your feet.
What if it is just like any other travel book?However, I decided to read it.
I liked his mysticism mixed with his present climbing situations.
I especially liked how he was able to reflect on his own life while climbing the Himalaya.
Reading this while eating alone in restaurants gave the impression of a conversation with Matthiessen that stopped and started with my meals, and also lying in bed.
Such an ideal way to read this book.
In Nong Khiaw, a roach as big as a mouse crawled under my door and under my bed, and thanks to Matthiessen's writing, I was able to think only of the present of the roach as creature rather than feeling the horror of future possibilities (potentially crawling on me, etc.).
It was a very slow read, and one of those books that I could read every few years and have a different experience.
A beautifully poetic account of two journeys - one physical and one spiritual.I loved Matthiessen's descriptions of Nepal and the Himalayas, there are passages of exceptional beauty, especially around the Crystal Mountain.
Time really does seem to stand still in this region.
Matthiessen writes with a humility that is inspiring to read, this was very much a spiritual journey for him having recently lost his wife to cancer and we are with him, every step of the way, as he looks to find peace.
It’s taking me forever to finish THE SNOW LEOPARD by Peter Matthiessen - a brilliant and beautiful masterwork, a meditation on Zen Buddhism, a travelogue and a moving memoir. Reading only a few pages at a time because I don’t want it to end. Ever.
He describes (what he considers) his personal failings, such as his distrust of strangers; his lessons (when the strangers later help him in some way); and his moments of clarity (when he realizes these lessons).Also, he brings you along with his sense of moving from one world to another along each step his journey as he leaves the reminders of modern society (radios, motos, etc...) to the older lifestyle at the shey.
