https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/851541.Process_and_Reality
your mom is an eternal object.
But I don't mean to disparage the book by saying this as regardless of the self-evidence of process thought - at least from my vantage point - this book is still significant as no philosopher had fully explicated such notions before.
I'd recommend reading an introductory text or two on Whitehead or process theology before embarking on this so you can kind of read the system's essentials into the text.
I've been told many times that I should look at Whitehead, but I have always been put off by his writing, which is decidedly not "analytic" even though he is an important figure in analytic philosophy (the co-author of Principia for Christ's sake!) It turns out that I had a lot in common with Whitehead without knowing it: actual discrete events, potentials and forces are, for me, the fundamentals of a truly "physicalist" view of reality, the underlying basis of an extended world of matter and motion described by physics, and it appears something similar is true for him.
I abhor swimming, sand, people, and seagull excrete equally."They then tried to persuade me with a cooler of ice cold Hoegaarden beer, not knowing I was going on a year without smoking or drinking: "Yes, I quit both simultaneously and yes, I know that is insane to think about.
I took it to Peter Luger's steakhouse to finish Process and Reality for the first time.Mind expansion through drug intake is pedestrian goyim nonsense compared to Whitehead edited by Griffin, 9/11's subterranean Grand Inquisitor.
Fuck the beach and the sun, give me Process and Reality.
Although almost inaccessible to the layman, this seminal work in metaphysics is nonetheless one giant leap forward for human thought.
In it, Whitehead elaborates the true work of metaphysics, namely the activity of building a conceptual system that links together the particular systems of the particular sciences and humanities into one coherent and logical framework.
Metaphysics is not reductionism, but "descriptive generalization." He then spends the rest of the text laying out his own attempt at a metaphysical picture of the world.
Although not every detail is convincing, his overall picture of the world is remarkable in its power and scope.
Not just a book--it's a hobby. There is so much to chew through in this book that it could take a LIFETIME to really understand it.
For Whitehead, the back of the stamp might read "Reject substance, fact-based philosophy in favor of a philosophy of breadth, continued process and change".I am unable to summarize this book but will offer instead some of what I took from it.
The discussion of God that appears most fully in the final section of "Process and Reality" has inspired a theological school known as "Process Theology".In the important "Preface" to this lengthy book, Whitehead offers his own nine-point summary of the prevalent habits of philosophical thought his work tries to displace.
It remains, I think, a major work of 20th Century philosophy worthy to be considered and compared with more widely-read but difficult books such as Heidegger's "Being and Time" and Wittgenstein's "Philosophical Investigations".Robin Friedman
this is perhaps the most consequential piece of philosophy or maybe even written thing in the western canon in the 20th century, but god this was so annoying to read.
i mean, i guess i'll come back one day and can pick through all the technical particulars of whitehead's thrilling metaphysic structuralist lattice of cosmological jargonings, but god let me just tell you what it was like reading this shit.
the word quark is merely the material-semiotic product of a decision, and it satisfies a metaphysical need that is always fleeting, always changing, never giving in to a static predictable structure, much like quantum observation.
Whitehead did not figure prominently in my philosophical studies, but we did read process and reality in a class I took up at SUNY Binghamton.
Dr. Stephen Ross was the professor, he is an incredibly rigorous and challenging thinker who has the particularly powerful gift of being nondoctrinaire in his approach to philosophy.
As a result, he had no compunction in presenting Whitehead as a philosopher as challenging and important as Spinoza, Bergson, of Hegel.
Whitehead's process philosophy is incredibly interesting, particularly since one of its strong implications is that we live in a multiverse with physical rules that are not the only possible rules for a given universe.
Kant is not the last word in Philosophy.
Suggested by Ilya Prigogine as providing a way to emphasize relations over things
July 28, 2012 Introduction The scope and magnitude of Process and Reality is nearly incomprehensible in and of itself. The task of outlining metaphysical principles of Process and Reality is closer to the incomprehensible than the scope and magnitude, by the fact that Whitehead’s genius is exemplified by the onerous clarity and simplicity of the system. It seems as though every part is perfectly placed so as to reemphasize past propositional data to be remembered and reflected upon for considera
A Few Preliminary PointsWhen I use the phrase immediacy of an actual occasion I am talking about the actual occasion or actual entity that has not reached satisfaction but is either (a) premature as to its synthesis of feelings, (b) premature as to its comparisons and contrasts of forms of definiteness, or (c) simply has not yet been characterized by “satisfaction”, completing concrescence and thereby perpetuated by its essence as an object or superject.
Takes great determination, but the effort could pay back in spades. Time will tell.
Seminal piece of metaphysics. Essential reading for breaking substantialist mindsets.
It is not possible to unpack the full meaning of these words until one has read Process and Reality, and Whitehead's earlier works (particularly Adventures of Ideas).
This is not a new idea by any means, dating back to Heraclitus.
And yet it is a thinker of Whitehead's caliber who is needed to articulate this paradigm in ways we can understand.
I would not say he is a neo-Platonic thinker, which is to say one who thinks about Plato.
I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in speculative/process philosophy.
This book requires some serious dedication to get your head around it properly in my opinion. A Brilliant man, but to do him justice, I think I'll need to take a class with a good professor and go through it with more intensity. Many people skipped Whitehead, and I think new interest in his work is merited. If you think quantum mechanics is pleasurable, then you'll love this stuff! Make sure you have a solid understanding of every major philosopher and mathematician since Thales and Pythagoras. Good Luck to you
Although I claim to have read this, I haven't read every last word, and its a book hat requires rereading. It's a lifelong project. Stunning book, completely changed my understanding of the world and what we are doing here. Also extremely useful in my professional life, forms the basis for a new kind of design practice. All that said, the book is one of the most difficult things I have ever read, bar none.
Whitehead's unique vernacular forces dimensional stretching of one's axonic-synaptic-dendrictic ontology (slavery)--his unique verbage and masterful powers of mental organization/elucidation can make one feel more comfortable floating celestially free of charge. give it a dip
The most difficult book I've ever read, but also one of the most refreshing takes on metaphysics.
Not comfortable assigning a star rating to this yet as I feel I am not quite ready, though I do have a very strong feeling this will be very significant to me a little down the road...
My undergraduate degree in philosophy focused on Whitehead. This was prior to my own conversion. While I now am quite critical of Whitehead, I acknowledge him as an import modern thinker.
More difficult than Hegel for Chrissake!
While Whitehead's magnum opus is admittedly dense, it is a treasure trove of philosophical genius. A must-read for anyone interested in the "other side" of Western philosophical thought.
Antiquated and prevalent simultaneously.
Great book, very dry material and expects foreknowledge of most previous philosophers.
Whitehead's Metaphysical theory includes a demonstrate of how the Self is not a fixed entity, but an ongoing process.
Excessive jargon made it unreadable in places, which is a shame, because those parts that are written clearly are very interesting, even beautiful at times.
Process philosophy has its flaws, but this book is an excellent exposition and defense of the subject, and is quite the seminal work in the field.
