https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1145862.Stand_Tall_Molly_Lou_Melon
One of my kids favorite books. The moral to the story is how Molly Lou Melon is different from everyone else, but that it's okay. Wise words from Grandma encourage Molly to stand up for herself, be true to herself, smile and be happy, and never give up. This is a book that I'll keep to read to my Grand babies one day in the very far future...no Goodwill for this one! Huge five stars. Ages 4 to 94...
I just adore Molly Lou for her sweet self-confidence and the joy she finds in (and brings to) life.
But, her grandmother taught her that, if she carries herself with confidence, the world will look up to her...
Can Molly Lou maintain her self-confidence and maybe even win some new friends?Since this is a children's book, it should come as no surprise that she DOES.
I also love the celebration of nature and that Molly Lou seems such a kindred spirit with the animals.
And it's nice to see a grandmother celebrated for her wonderful wisdom.
So I just learned about this site, We Give Books, where you can read books online, for free, and support literacy programs.
Where has this site been all my life?!
Obviously I signed up, and read my first book within 5 minutes.
It seems that they are all children's books, which is fine with me.
They are easy, cute and reading them makes a difference.
Plus this has a couple great messages: Love yourself and don't let the critics get you down, and bullies never win against someone who refuses to be intimidated.
A couple messages that everyone, of all ages, can do with remembering.
Molly Lou Melon is the cutest little eensy-weensy girl you've ever seen.
She needs a ladder to climb up onto her bed.
Her self-confidence, however, is bigger than Andre the Giant.
No matter what ugly things that stereotypically-red-headed class bully Ronald Durkin says to her, she just grins her giant grinning grin and goes right ahead doing whatever it is she's doing, from creating the most beautiful paper snowflake ever to scoring a touchdown even though she's wearing a football helmet that comes all the way down to her navel.
You gotta love Molly Lou Melon.
Gotta.
Love.
David Catrow's wonderful and wacky illustrations fit the story and Molly Lou Melon's personality perfectly.
My favorite is the close-up view of Molly Lou Melon smiling big so the world will smile right alongside her.
Molly Lou Melon certainly never does anything by halves!There are so many interesting and fun details in this book - in both the story and the illustrations.
I noticed something new every time I read it.
For example, Molly Lou Melon is never called "Molly Lou" or "Molly." She is ALWAYS "Molly Lou Melon."My favorite part of the entire book, though, is the very last page.
This is a very sweet story about being happy with yourself. This book reminds me of "I Like Myself" by Karen Beaumont (also illustrated by David Catrow). These two books could be used to compare and contrast, but could also be used for a lesson having children draw/write about things they like about themselves.
It turned out this was one of two books I read in one day that had the same illustrator: David Catrow, and I love his work.This is a wonderful book for any child who’s teased or who feels different from other kids, and great for kids who need to learn to stand up for themselves.
I really loved the message. Loving yourself has a big impact on how others think of you. Molly never let anyone take away her joy. Molly's inner beauty shown so great that even the haters began to see things in a more positive light.
This is a terrific book that encourages children to be proud of who they are and not let bullies tear them down.
We love David Catrow's books, so I was excited to read this book with our girls.
Our youngest was sure that we'd already read it, but I don't remember it.
I love that Molly Lou has a close relationship with her grandmother (who is a lot like Molly Lou), and that they maintain that closeness even when Molly Lou moves away.
We really enjoyed reading this book together.
Title / Author / Publication Date: Stand Tall, Molly Lou Melon. / Patty Lovell. David Catrow (ill.) / 2001. Genre: Fiction.Format: Picturebook - print.Plot summary:"Even when the class bully at her new school makes fun of her, Molly remembers what her grandmother told her and she feels good about herself" (NoveList).Considerations or precautions for readers advisory: self-esteem, bullying, relationship with grandmothers Review citation:“What keeps the storytelling fresh is the crisp prose and the heroine's full-speed-ahead determination” (Publishers Weekly).Section source used to find the material: Best Books for Children Preschool through Grade 6 (9th ed.)Recommended age: Ages 2 - 6.
If I could give this book more than five stars, I would. We received this book as a gift, and I wasn't too sure about it because the illustrations are not my style. But I was hooked by the first couple of pages. Molly Lou Melon, a short, bullfrog-voiced, buck-toothed dynamo shows kids how to stand up for themselves and love their individuality with humor and grace.The illustrations are full of hidden gems, the story is short and full of meaning, and kids of all ages will get a kick out of Molly Lou's antics. A must-read!
Even though Molly Lou Melon is small, has buck teeth, and has a voice like a horn, but Molly Lou's grandma tells her she is special and she finds a way to build her self-esteem. Then, Molly Lou moves, away from grandma, but she knows in her heart that grandma is right. A great read-aloud book for self-esteem and bullying.
I read this book to my class every year. It is a wonderful story.
This story teaches you that whoever you are, you are SPECIAL!
Quinncey Sept. A favorite for girls age 6 !!
Summary: "Stand Tall, Molly Lou Melon" is about a young girl who has flaws, just like everyone else. Molly Lou Melon's grandmother teacher Molly to appreciate her flaws and to be proud of who she is. Evaluation: I rated this book a 4. This book is engaging to its readers with such appealing images. It also gives young children a wonderful message of appreciating theirselves. Teaching Tip: Teachers could read this book to his/her students, and then have the students write a text-to-self connection. (some connections could be about the students' flaws, someone teaching them to overcome something, etc.)
I adore the message in this book. I like how it gives children the confidence in themselves when it comes to their own uniqueness. I like also how their is an adult who promotes this confidence in the book that is not a parent. I think children can relate to having an adult, not necessarily a parent, give them acceptance. I chose this book because not everyone in life is going to like you, there will be Ronald's along the way. This book gives the message to be true to yourself no matter who shows up.
This book is an absolutely awesome book!
Molly is just a little bit smaller then the other children and unique in her in ways.
Her grandmother encouraged her to love all the things that made her different.
I also enjoyed the dialogue from the grandmother and how Molly Lou Mellon listened to her.
As a teacher, I believe this book would be a wonderful book to use in the classroom to teach children to not only accept their differences, but be proud of who you are and your uniqueness.
I will most definitely be using this book in my classroom!
Funny, adorable, and empowering. Molly Lou Melon isn’t having any of your insults. She is strong and confident in a itsy-bitsy package. The kids and I liked this one a lot.
Text-to-WorldIn my opinion, this book teaches self-confidence.
In the reading was a little girl named Molly Lou Melon, who had features that she was not too fond of.
However, her loving grandmother always taught her to love and appreciate herself, and in return, the people that surrounds you will love you for those same reasons.
In hindsight, this book can reinsure children to always love themselves and don't worry about people negative comments and to just be you.
One activity that I would consider, would be putting all the children's name in a bowl and have each kid pick a name.
This was silly and I liked the story!
Text to text connection:This book reminded me of “I like myself” by Karen Beaumont.
Both books are about two little girls who have things that aren’t so lovely about themselves.
But they both choose to embrace their flaws and insecurities and just be themselves.
They were taught that Beauty comes from a good heart and they display that beauty despite their shortcomings.
This is a great message for all students despite gender.
And it is also a great lesson that we should choose kindness because we never know what someone else is feeling.
Molly Lou Melon is a short girl, who gets bullied at school. Throughout the story Molly Lou Melon proves her bully wrong and keeps her head up, or as her grandma says "Stand Tall." I recommend this story to everyone because it focuses on differences and learning how to embrace uniqueness. For this story, I would read aloud this story, then have my students come up with ways they are unique. As a class we would go around the room and allow each students explain why he or she is unique.
We absolutely loved this book . I have found other Molly Lou Melon books to be just ok . This one I loved !!! It took bullying head on. My five year old son loved how she killed the bully with kindness and just kept being herself .
Molly Lou Melon is short and clumsy, has buck teeth, and “has a voice that sounds like a bullfrog being squeezed by a boa constrictor.” She doesn’t mind.
But then Molly Lou has to start in a new school and meets a horrid bully named Ronald Durkin who picks on her on the very first day.
But Molly Lou Melon, thanks to her grandmother’s advice to “Sing out clear and strong and the world will cry tears of joy,” knows just what to do about that.
It’s about a bully and a little girl, but I promise it’s not the story you think.
Very sweet. Great message. Stand tall. Be proud of yourself and don't give in to others nasty comments. Quite simply, believe in yourself no matter how small or different.
My above remark about the cover might suggest that Catrow’s pencil and watercolor illustrations in Stand Tall Molly Lou Melon are just not my cup of tea.
When the story talks about Molly Lou’s buck teeth, and shared grandma’s advice to “smile big and the world will smile right alongside you,” the next page turn features that “and grandma was right” moment…and I (the world) did not smile right with her.
Write a good narrative like Stand Tall Molly Lou Melon, embrace the straightforward intent and make that advice ring true.recommendations… this is the kind of book I would recommend reading when a child is young and not yet in school or even dealing with bullies yet.
I don't remember much about this book, but I put a star next to it. I think I liked it because it shows kids that no matter how hurtful people can be to you, you should always stand tall. Kids can always learn from that lesson so I think I would read this book to my class.
The bully, Ronald Durkin, test everything Molly Lou Melon learns from her grandmother about 'standing tall.' Melon's grandmother imparts life lesson in her to accept herself fully and to show up in the world as all of who she is.
Eventually, Molly Lou Melon wins the new school over-bully, Ronald Durkin, included!
I love this story and the illustrations, but ever without the great artwork, I feel as though I would have a good understanding of what Molly Lou Melon would look and sound like.
After reading the whole book, I would like to start a discussion about what she, the writer, thinks about how well the author does or does not create the character.
• Stand Tall, Molly Lou Melono Summary: Molly Lou Mellon is a little girl who is very different than everyone else that is in her first grade class. He grandmother teaches her to embrace her differences and it makes her proud of the way she is. Molly has to move schools and she is going away from her grandmother and all of her friends. When she gets to her new school a bully starts to pick on her every day. Every day that the bully picks on her, she does something to prove that she is very proud
Every day that the bully picks on her, she does something to prove that she is very proud of being the different person she is which results in everyone liking her in the end, even the bully.o	Grade level: 2ndo	Appropriate classroom use can read aloud to the entire class for story time.
o	Whole class use: Can read aloud and the students can act out all the different things that Molly Lou Melons Grandmother told her to do.o	Related books in genre/subject or content area: Not Your Typical Dragon is a book that has the same subject and lesson.o	Multimedia connections available: This book is available as an audio-book online.
