https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250.Tropic_of_Capricorn
"I am so thoroughly healthy and empty. No dreams, no desires. I am like the luscious deceptive fruit which hangs on the Californian trees. One more ray of sun and I will be rotten." Henry MillerThe first thing, if you are lucky, that you discover about Henry Miller is that you shouldn't introduce him to your wife, your sister, your mother or any other female that you care to leave unsullied. He is like a bloodhound once he catches the scent of a female that he has not had carnal knowledge with.
If you have read any of Henry's books you know that he shares his life, everything, even the stuff that makes him look like a lout."When I got home my wife was awake and sore as hell because I had stayed out so long.
Like every other fool I know...I've lent Henry money.
To be civilized is to have complicated needs, And a man, when he is full blown, shouldn't need a thing." The thing of it is Henry couldn't be Henry except for the existence of people like myself who are always willing to buy him a drink and marvel at his stories.
But in reaching out, in the effort to grasp, to attach myself, left high and dry as I was, I nevertheless found something I had not looked for – myself.The narration comes as a rave of a cynical lunatic… And this madman abides in the hallucinatory world of his own making.
The woman hanging on my arm was pregnant and in six or seven years the thing she was carrying inside her would be able to read the letters in the sky and he or she or it would know that it was a cigarette and later would smoke the cigarette, perhaps a package a day.And the narration comes as an obscene prayer to the goddess Astarte… Capricorn is a lascivious goat after all… And tropic is a gateway to the hottest and wettest equatorial zone…My eyes are useless, for they render back only the image of the known.
All throughout this book I was thinking about one thing: when was Cancer and when was Capricorn written.
Inconsiderate, definitely – his wife was having a second abortion while he was screwing his secretary who borrowed them money for the hospital.
But, maybe I like this book more than Tropic of Cancer because he instead of talking about actual physical sex, sorrowness and how high he is, he writes about retrospection, perception and introspection of his own life and people around him.
Another, I hate the "c" word for female genitalia and Miller peppers this book with it.Horizon expanded by maybe half a foot.Do NOT read the below hidden quote if you are sensitive to vulgar language.(view spoiler)["This is all a figurative way of speaking about what is unmentionable.
What is unmentionable is pure fuck and pure cunt; it must be mentioned only in deluxe editions, otherwise the world will fall apart.
What holds the world together, as I have learned from bitter experience, is sexual intercourse.
Βαθμολογία: ★★★Όσο με ενθουσίασε στην αρχή, άλλο τόσο με έχασε προς το τέλος, για ακόμη μια φορά. Δομή που κουράζει απίστευτα, έλλειψη κεφαλαίων, γραφή τόσο συνειρμική που μπορείς να προσπεράσεις μερικές σελίδες και να συνεχίσεις να διαβάζεις χωρίς να χαθείς. Αναγνωρίζω πάντως τη λογοτεχνική του αξία, σε αντίθεση με τον Bukowski και άλλους συγγραφείς του είδους.
Late in the novel, Miller uses a metaphor to describe his process as going from skating to swimming to being a stone.
Miller makes it clear in his denouement that his essential concern is not to do with eternity or God or justice, but that it’s human vitality, and the capacity of man to express that vitality....what a man does is of no great importance, it’s what he is that counts.There is only an imaginary line between the Tropics, that is, how we name them, how we make them be.
Zor bir kitap "Oğlak Dönencesi".Yazarın "Yengeç Dönencesi"ni okuduğum yakın zamanda, Henry Miller'ı keşfetmemin ne kadar geç kaldığını anladığımda büyük bir panik hali yaşamış ve en kısa zamanda "Oğlak Dönencesi"ni okuma kararı almıştım.
Zira Miller tempolu bir hayat içerisinde, dikkatinizi vermeniz gereken onca başka şey varken okunacak eserler yazmıyor.
Henry Miller olay odaklı ve kronolojik bir anlatım benimsemediğinden okuması hayli zor ve meşakkatli oluyor.
Okuyucusunu belirleyen bir yazar Miller.
Çok daha başına buyruk, savruk, kavramsal bir dili var Miller'in.
Okurken farkına varıyorsunuz, diyorsunuz ki 'bu adam boşuna çağın en önemli yazarlarından biri olmamış'.Tabulara karşı sanatın her dalında karşıtlık oluşturan eserlere hayranlık duyan benim için "Oğlak Dönencesi"ni beğenmem kaçınılmazdı.
I read the first few chapters...it was boring....then I skipped chapters hoping he would get more interesting..he didn't....kept going...it was still boring...towards the end...he is pathetically sentimental, self-indulgent and boring...I think it is because he was mooching off his wife while trying to shag someone else's wives in order to mooch off them too...and too much mooching off the labours of women while being an annoying left bank Parisian bum, made him go "cunt, cunt, cunt" a lot...but it did not make him an interesting writer with a plot or indeed a man whose rant an intelligent thinking, post-modern woman could stand...given his misogyny and his endless rants....without a plot.Like Bukowski, rather Bukowski copied him...he tried to give the impression of being good in bed and all that....but uses too many words and in short, I consider this genre of writing ...EARLY Dick-lit.!However if you randomly pick out a phrase or two ...he had very interesting way of using the english language fusing it with Americanism.

I was a senseless child when I read The Tropic of Cancer and I thought he was a machist and so on and you know what?
I want to read the freaking Tropic of Cancer again!
But I had the book in Portuguese though and I want to read it in English, so it was not so bad after all.
Anyway, it was one of the happy moments of 2014: recognizing that Henry Miller is an intelligent, sensitive human-being and that I want to read more from him.
Found it completely pointless. Maybe I dont get surreal style at all. Maybe this zig-zag approach to reality makes me dizzy.Point is, I am sure many of his admirers, if they missed the famous author name, would feel as I do about this book.
cunt cunt cunt. I hate this book. I love this book. At moments I'm completely swept away or disgusted. Lost in a bleakness and shaking my head in pity for Henry. At times his existence is loathsome like a bad acid trip. Other times it's over the top sexy. Juices tumbling out of groins. I feel like I'm in between those loins.
Ένα καταιγιστικό βιβλίο, αλλόκοτο, χωρίς πλοκή, χωρίς ειρμό. Χειμαρρώδες, όμορφο, κολασμένο, ονειρικό, χλευαστικό, ανήθικο, διδακτικό. Ο Μίλερ είναι ένας άξιος εκπρόσωπος του υπερρεαλισμού. Αν και έχει γνωρίσει τον ντανταϊσμό, δεν τον ενστερνίζεται. Ακροβατεί ανάμεσα στο παραλήρημα και τη φτηνή αυτοβιογραφία. Φτύνει το κατεστημένο, την πραγματικότητα. Ταυτόχρονα ζει την πραγματικότητα, το τώρα, ως το μεδούλι. Υμνεί τη γυναίκα και τις ωοθήκες της, την ίδια στιγμή που τη φοβάται και τη λατρεύει σαν θεά.Ο Τροπικός του Αιγόκερω είναι ένα βιβλίο-μνημείο των ακραίων ατραπών που μπορεί να βαδίσει ο ανθρώπινος εγκέφαλος, χωρίς να χάσει το δρόμο του.
المهم وأنا في تلك الحالة، وبينما أجوب شوارع وسط البلد مع صديقة لي، ضاع الكتاب.
هنري يلهمني وأنا أكتب.
أين الكتاب؟ كان معك (أجابتني) وخرجنا نبحث عن الكتاب.
وأنا في حالة من الضياع والتشتت.
كنت قد تجاوزت 65 صفحة فقط من الكتاب.
كنت أقرأ بتأن واستمتاع بالغين.
هذه هي فاتحة الكتاب.
ويبدو أن هذه هي تيمة الكتاب كله.
هنري حزين جدا في مدار الجدي علي حال الانسان المنسحق من فوق، ومن الآلة، ومن الشغل، ومن المخدرات، والجنس..هنري يبكي حاله، وحال أميركا، وحال العالم..هذا أول كتاب يضيع مني يا هنري، ماذا أفعل؟ سأذهب لدلتا فينوس كتاب صديقتك نن..
Racist. Sexist. Let's move on.
"I wanted to be wide awake without talking or writing about it, in order to accept life absolutely." Tropic of Cancer was incredible, undeniably so, even if at times Henry Miller perhaps tried too hard to push the envelope. In between those moments, however, was pure literary ecstasy. However, Tropic of Capricorn is certainly a much more mature and controlled novel. One of the most intellectually stimulating works of literature I've ever read.
Miller expectorates vehemently about the country he calls a “cesspool” where “everything is sucked down and drained away to everlasting shit”, before asserting that everything he had “endured was in the nature of a preparation for that moment when, putting on my hat one evening, I walked out of the office, out of my hitherto private life, and sought the woman who was to liberate me from a living death.” The woman sought was Miller’s second wife, June Mansfield Smith, the great nostrum who turned into an obsession leading to his emotional labefaction.
Es una novela que te hace explotar la cabeza, porque es como una explosión.Seguimos la vida ficcionalizada de Henry Miller, su vida como jefe de personal en una compañía de telégrafos y de sus amistades, salidas, vida familiar, prostitutas, su odio por Estados Unidos, sus reflexiones sobre la vida que lleva, sus recuerdos de infancia, entre muchas otras cosas.
Yo lo llamaría como una especie de sexo-místico, porque hay cierta espiritualidad en lo que quiere vivir Miller y en lo que es su filosofía de vida: decir sí a todo, porque es la única forma de poder vivir honradamente como hombre y ser humano.
And this book has no plot.Ten years ago, when I was a senior in high school, I read Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer.
I liked it.This time, I read Tropic of Capricorn, ten years after reading the first book.
He has sex with several women in the book, and it seems that he is the most virile character in literature that I have encountered so far.
And after reading this book, I am glad that I did pick it up, even though it was ten years after I read the first book.
I recently reread the first page and counted five cliches.* I'd've found more had I the strength to continue.
Of course, he couldn't see that, blinded as he was by his outsized ego.*More than five, actually: "given up the ghost" "dead certainty" "I was my own worst enemy." "bored me to tears" "sympathetic to a fault" "a change of heart" "at first blush"There were many other soft cliches and tired turns of phrase, all on page one.
His writing, in all of his books (the eight or so that I've read, anyway) is replete with laziness (intermingled with bits of careless genius).
Asta aș putea spune despre Tropicele lui Henry Miller.Privind retrospectiv ambele lecturi, mă simt ca și coborât dintr-un astfel de monstru de distracții.
Iată mașinăria milleriană.Pentru Miller, unde ai zice că-i autobiografie în cazul ambelor cărți, este de fapt o distorsiune a realității și ficțiunii, o punere a acestora într-un malaxor din care iese o compoziție cel puțin ciudată.Tropicul Capricornului vine în susținerea celuilalt tropic (Tropicul Cancerului) publicat în 1934.
Privind atipic modernismul și facerile modernității, naratorul se detașează prin trăiri intense, făcând uz de realitate pentru a o străpunge prin cele mai sensibile puncte, mai ales cele morale.Restul aici: http://adispune.ro/henry-miller-tropi...
Tropic of Capricorn, along with Tropic of Cancer, may have been groundbreaking at the time, but without the historical context they're just crude, misogynistic, violent, and ugly.
Miller writes like a stoned undergrad, contemplating his place in the universe through endless oblique metaphor--basically, he's that guy who always used song lyrics as his status updates and then if you ask him what they mean, he would smugly say, "Oh, nothing."Not worth the time it took to read.
Contemplated throwing it away multiple times while reading it but I wanted to give it a chance to see if it improved.
I want my time back.
Most readers and critics seem to focus on the sexual aspects of Miller's work, or else the profanity, or that his work was autobiographical, and they tend to say that his work isn't relevant to a 21st Century audience.
I disagree; while his language might be more suited to an audience from an earlier time, and his cynicism and sexual explicitness might put readers off (personally, I think his sex scenes were poorly written and the least important aspect of his work), his ideas, especially concerning his life as an artist, are more relevant and illuminating than anything the publishing industry has vomited out in the last twenty years.
In the contraversal debates on Fifty Shades of Grey this was one of the books suggested as being a better read. So I thought I'd try it. I'm almost halfway through the book after much skim reading - for me on the negativity of life - I'm ready to throw the towel in and move onto a more pleasant book.
Sounds like quite an industrial sabotage plan, adopting the capitalist’s requirements to destroy the system that renders those requirements inexorable—but it is sadly vitiated by the narrator’s personal opportunism: “the best thing about the new day was the introduction of female messengers”—to “promise them a job but to get a free fuck first” (29).
(It’s not just the narrator; it seems to be a general phenomenon: “it was the most natural thing in the world, at the end of the evening, for him to say—‘come on upstairs a minute, I want to show you my cock’” (95), which is reminiscent of a recent judicial confirmation hearing.)We see that the jeremiad and the misogyny come to coincide without remainder:  it always happens that way to a peaceable people.
Miller is just intense, and he writes with passion and bluntness.
Personal hyper-sensitivities should be left out when reading Miller.
He writes about his raw desires with zeal and intensity and he doesn’t see a need to post-script it with “oh, and I’m not saying that women should not be respected or don’t have anything else to offer other than sex.” Expecting every male writer to say or imply such thing is just another form of vanity.
Some women need to get over their obsession to analyze every male write, looking for signs of “misogyny.”
Ciò che colpisce è la disarmante verità di cui questa sua opera è intrisa.Tropico del Capricorno è un romanzo dove i dialoghi sono quasi assenti e dove la verità di Miller è cruenta e cruda.
Dal di fuori, sembra un bell'alveare con tutte le api che si scavalcano, ma da dentro è un macello, e ciascuno uccide il suo prossimo e gli succhia il midollo delle ossa".E' anche la storia di un uomo in balìa di se stesso, del suo essere e della sua condizione.
Un romanzo che entra dentro le ossa, una lettura che necessita della massima concentrazione e attenzione e che alla fine vi lascia saturi.
Miller is either a sheer genius or a madman; perhaps both.
This is the companion work to Tropic of Cancer, and actually predates it in chronological time line.
Miller exhibits an extra-ordinary ego, an inability to focus on much anything beyond sex and money both of which he seems to feel entitled, without commitment.
As he says in this book there is nothing between the Tropic of Cancer and the Tropic of Capricorn but an imaginary line.
Perhaps a bookmark?Three star rating includes a star for the stature of the work on both of these.
Call me "puritanical", but when I read a line like "The sad thing about Valeska was the fact that she had n****r blood in her veins" (pg. 57) I lose interest in a book. Why do I want to read about a blatant racist/sexist? His musings aren't that interesting. Nelson Algren put it best when he said: "Henry Miller has one fault, he thinks he thinks."
One of those fierce books I've usually read in homeopathic doses so I won't die of an homme de lettres overdose.
