https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11442575-dead-men-s-money
Fast-paced 1920 mystery told in the first person.
A strange lodger in Hugh's mother's boardinghouse sends Hugh to meet a man at midnight, because the lodger is too ill to go himself.
At his destination Hugh finds a man murdered, and upon returning finds the lodger dead from his illness.
The body count increases while the authorities, with Hugh's help, try to find the murderer.The narrator, Hugh, is a likable character, if a bit naive.
The chapters are short and most end with some sort of tantalizing info that makes you want to read the next chapter to find out more.
A fun mystery that's a quick read.
The novel dates to the golden age of mystery writing, the nineteen-twenties and -thirties, and is an appealing “cozy.” When I read books from this era I always enjoy picturing the hissing steam engines, compartmented passenger coaches, and smoky railway stations that were such a romantic aspect of the time.The story is set mostly in Berwick-upon-Tweed, a town on the English side of the border with Scotland, but the characters walk and bicycle about the surrounding countryside (often at night!), visit a stately home, and do a fair bit of travelling by rail.
Another fast-paced murder mystery by J.S. Fletcher.
It was first published in 1920, and has just the right stock of truly good characters, balanced by a couple of nasties.
A young apprentice solicitor in a rural English town bordering Scotland, is riding his bike through lonely stretches of countryside very late in the evening, to run a strange errand for a mysterious lodger at his mother's house.
He finds a recently murdered body at the end of his ride, and the mysteries keep piling up from there.
He's WAY too trusting, and that trait gets him into serious trouble several times.
Another quiet little cozy from Fletcher. His books always deliver good characters, a couple of well handled twists, and nice quiet plot. No blood. No gore. No sex. Perfect as a "palate cleanser" after a week spent immersed in modern and classic noir. Every time I finish one of his books, I ask the same question: Why isn't this guy better known? He may not be as good as the Great Christie, but he's definitely in the running for second place.
My first exposure to J.S. Fletcher, and an overall "like but not love" experience.
I enjoyed the plot, and some of the characters, but the ending was pretty abrupt, without tying up loose plot threads.
It's always frustrating to me when a story's development depends on the main character's repeated incompetence and denseness, and that's unfortunately the case here.
But I absolutely adored the fact that major characters got around by bicycle, and it was the most normal thing in the world.
So civilized and sensible.The voice actors for the Librivox recording were generally quite good, though the sound level and recording quality was all over the place.
Hugh Moneylaws a lawyer's clerk, on an errand for his mother's lodger discovers a body. Mr. Lindsey, the lawyer and Hugh attempt to unravel the mystery if his name and make sense of everything that follows, as Hugh is not really the brightest of people. But an enjoyable tale, set and written in 1919.
The dumbest protagonist I've ever read. Bar none. Every decision this guy makes had me shaking my head. I can't believe he didn't die, or go to prison himself. Other characters make questionable decisions as well, but he's the worst. And then once we add in an abrupt and unsatisfying ending, this book is more frustration than it's worth. I'd give it a miss, if I were you, dear reader.
Great read. Cute english dramaThe story line was well written. It kept you guessing. My only problem was Maisie. I kind had it figured out but the actual turn of events caught me off guard. Good read based on the English side of the Scotland border. Language was G+.mp
Very good rreadA fine story and good suspense. Would read more of his work.I am very glad to have fun into it.
He even sits through a discussion of same said topic, and it’s not until someone spells it out – that man is someone else – that Hugh M almost falls out of his chair with amazed shock.
Hugh merrily sets off on his way, in the semi darkness sees a suspicious character, and when he arrives at the meeting place, discovers a dead murdered and bloody body… What would you do?
Even when another potential witness is murdered, he doesn’t think that he perhaps ought to mention what he really saw.
Good old murder mystery set in English Scottish border town of Berwick Upon Tweed.
An old seafaring type turns up from nowhere seeking lodgings with the narrators mother.
He is taken ill and while incapacitated he receives a letter.
He then asks the narrator,Hugh, who is a solicitors clerk, to keep an appointment for him and explain that he is too ill to come himself.
He goes out late at night and, of course, finds the person murdered.The police do not figure much in this story but there is a good deal of detection done by Hugh and his employer.
This my first exposure to J.S. Fletcher's books. This story is one of those warm, fuzzy British murder mysteries. It takes place primarily in Berwick, but there is Scottish influence included. I enjoyed this who-done-it although every time I thought it was about done, it headed out into another twist. Then when I thought there was going to be one more twist, it was over. Written almost a century ago, I found this novel quite quaint and interesting. I shall read more of these quaint stories ----and they cost almost nothing.
Published in 1920, this is a classic little mystery that contains many twists and turns. While the main character, Hugh, isn't too bright this also makes him appealing in just the right way. And perhaps intellect is redeemed in the ever-thinking Lindsey. Even though I still prefer more modern mysteries it's nice to take time to read something a bit more quaint. I might have to try another one of Fletcher's mysteries.
Once you get over the dim-wittedness and naivety of the protagonist, Hugh, this is an engaging mystery set back in the days when everyone got about on bicycles, often in the middle of the night, and the baddie would not murder the goodie if the latter promised on his honour not to snitch about the baddie! An interesting and intriguing murder mystery where nothing is as it seems and the plot races along at a fair clip while all the time holding your attention. Definitely recommended.
gripping story, thought i'd read a little bit before going to bed, ended up reading until 4am (finishing the book) without realising.some things might be clear to the reader before they are to the main character (who isn't exactly the brightest spark in the box) but that doesn't lessen the tension.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book except for the ending. It seemed uncharacteristic of the the rest of the story. I have come to love early twentieth century mysteries though, more, I think, than pulp fiction as of late.
Good book. I always like Christi's books.
Long-winded and somewhat predictable.
Realy excellent old time thriller
Loved it I dare say! Of course, you can't hang it in the hall of fame of the intellectual cold-blooded classic detective novels which I prefer mostly. but overall not bad!
Good classic mystery.
Another fun mystery, this one full of murder, red herrings, romance, an old castle, a reuined castle at night, chests of gold, and English lawyers.
An amusing adventure/mystery set in 1920's rural Britain. Good enough to read once, but I'm not likely to reread it anytime soon.
Bodies keep showing up everywhere, while the mysterious Sir Gilbert does his deeds.
