https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12444297-burned
You can find review after review of complaints about the direction Moning took here and I'm going to be completely honest with you: I expected this book to be terrible.Most fans know the story by now but I'll just do a quick recap for those who don't.
Moning released Iced way back in 2012 and her fans were in uproar!
Had I not known the story behind the book about Moning's change of plans, I would never have guessed.
Apart from a few lovable tiffs, Moning has thankfully moved beyond the Mac/Barrons relationship story.
☆  Spoilers marked and colorful language abound!
I wasn't sure how to write this review.
So much of what I want to talk about is a complete spoiler, and I wouldn't do that to you guys.
I could rip this book apart plot point by plot point, it's held together with shoe string and gum, but that would be too easy.
With a heavy heart and red rimmed eyes, I'm going to muster through the best I can.
I do not have the words to express how sad I feel.
This books is a travesty as far as I am concerned and
Burned was not the book she wanted to write and you feel it on every single page.
KMM put Mac and Barrons to rest, she gave them the ending that she wanted to give them, and moved on with her mind and her heart when she wrote Iced.
With the avalanche of shit she got for Dani's age and all that goes along with Ryodan, I think she felt insecure and penned in, like she lost control of her own story.
This was not true to the story, this was Dani's book and it was told from Mac's POV.
She grows more spine in the second half of the book but she still doesn't feel like Mac 5.0.Now for the total cop-out.
Major spoilers ahead, do not click on the tags if you haven't read the book.(view spoiler)[Dani: the moment she disappeared in the Silvers I knew this was KMM's cheap trick to make her age.
This book is overloaded with POVs (Mac, Dani, Lor, the Unseelie King, Christian, Kat…) so throwing Ryo's and Barrons' in the mix would have meant instant combustion.
(hide spoiler)]What makes me even sadder here is that there were great things in this book.
AND DANI NEEDS TO GROW UP OR ELSE IM GOING BAT SHIT CRAY CRAY BECAUSE I DO NOT WANT THAT FECKING JO ON RYODAN'S ARMS BECAUSE SHE'S SO ANNOYING UGH****may contain spoilers below!!!!!****(view spoiler)[UPDATED REVIEW (sort of): so I finally got to read the book I was dying to read for ages, I can move on with my life now.
YASSS good.Okay so what I said earlier about Mac, actually you know what I kinda liked it, I mean yeah when I started the book I was like *groans* WHERE IS DANI I MISS HER ALREADY, but as the story progressed I find myself going back to the Fever world, where we started with Mac, so I was alright with it.
If you Hated ICED, well this was nothing like that.If you Loved the original Fever Five, well this was nothing like that.If you wanted More Barrons, He is thereIf you wanted More Mac, She is lostIf you wanted Nice Ryodan, you got it but that is just sad.If you needed Older Dani, she showed upWho might save this for me Lor, Lor he is the Man if he can't do it no one can. Full Review to Come.
Not that I am against hating on books - I spent quite a bit of time hating Moning's previous "Iced" myself - but "Burned" is just fine, a good entertainment, if you care to know what I think of it.
If I have to find something to complain about, it is that "Burned" is a bit too gratuitous and romance-heavy.
"Burned" might surprise you in a good and not a bad way.
Now to curb that death by sex so he can have an HEA in a highlander book...
3.I like Jada' fierceness but I REALLY want Dani back.
And with that I hang my head and push on through my TBR pileUpdate 1/27/14: Well it happened again folks...Burned has been delayed until January 2015...that sounds like the future.
My initial reaction:But now I'm just feeling like this:Update 8/20/13: Just read on FB that is has been pushed back to July 2014 but that Dani will be 17 in Burned which is great!April 2013 Update: Freaking January??!!!March 2013: KMM said on facebook: "It's very possible there will be 14 months between ICED and BURNED.
the book is sloppy, its presentation feels mismatched, characters seem "out-of character", and overall the wrapping up of plot points from Iced at moments seem contrived.
Pri-ya was probably one of the better literary devices to push Mac's character along and I do not want a water downed version of it in Dani's development.
I think there were many factors that shaped the outcome of Burned- from marketing, sales, fans, and even Moning maybe felt Mac was easier for her to write.
Iced was a book that read well and the plot was pushed forward with character development and good storytelling.
My feelings are spewed all over the place in the comment thread, and don't open spoilers if you don't want to be spoiled, but I have to add this: Michelle made a comment on Erica's review that was a total epiphany for me. She said:  "for Moning who has always had so much secrecy behind the motive of her characters having everything Ryo and the other characters did spelled out felt like a slap in the face.'   It's so true!!!!! I was livid over the plot device she used, but livid was a little extr
I was livid over the plot device she used, but livid was a little extreme and I couldn't figure out what was really pissing me off so bad about that specific element.
Actually, you know what, my love of the past books is coloring my rating here.
I'm so emotionally involved in this series that I don't even like to separate them like this, but my original 3.5 was just too generous in the extreme.
I really hope that the people who screamed for Dani to be aged really fucking love this book because otherwise all that was accomplished was the ruination of a spectacular series.
After Iced I wondered where the author would go with the cliffhanger we were left with.Mac’s world that we first entered in the first book of this series is certainly changing….darker and grittier. The fight between good and evil continues.   So, okay, Jericho & Mac are back again…….I missed them in Ice….  and still as hot together!!!!  Just blown away what happens to Mac half way thru….(view spoiler)[what, she becomes invincible!!!! (hide spoiler)] That was sooo unexpected!!And Dani……..the
After Iced I wondered where the author would go with the cliffhanger we were left with.Mac’s world that we first entered in the first book of this series is certainly changing….darker and grittier.
Just blown away what happens to Mac half way thru….(view spoiler)[what, she becomes invincible!!!!
(hide spoiler)] That was sooo unexpected!!And Dani……..the Mega we know….
…well….(view spoiler)[she comes back from the Silvers, where she has now aged to an acceptable age…allright….she’s now 19…yikes!!!!
And what do you know….Dani now has multiple personalities..what!!!!!
(hide spoiler)]she’s now a cold-hearted, snarky and takes no shit gal going by the name of Jada!!!!!
what a hell of a cliffhanger!!!!
There were some really good parts (view spoiler)[Lor and defeating the Crimson Hag are standouts for me in both reads (hide spoiler)], but Mac annoyed me in this more than she did in the other books.
(hide spoiler)]- Kat (I thought she was boring in Iced, but I'm interested to see where she goes in the next book.)- DANI (I could be in the minority, but I LOVE what happened with her!)(view spoiler)[I knew she would be aged in the Silvers.
(hide spoiler)]Things I didn't like:- WTH was up with all the comments from Mac about wanting sex with Barrons (but not actually getting any)?
People I literally don't know how I can go on.I mean what the fuck am I supposed to do with this:“You’re talking about my favorite human.
Not even if it meant splitting herself into pieces to deal with things, so she could laugh and want to go on living.“You don’t snuff a life like that,” Ryodan says softly.
Karen Marie Moning basically just wrote a 512 page book fucking with everybody's head to the point where i just stopped for a moment while reading this and just contemplated my very existence.
Here's hoping Karen Marie Moning knows what the fuck shes doing because i sure as hell don't.
Dancer is NOT a part of the Unseelie King.-We will learn more about the Nine, but the Nine will NOT be paired up like the Black Dagger Brotherhood series with books for each of them.-We will get Mac's POV in Burned.
Update June 24, 2013: (My girlfriend remembered a few additional tidbits from Saturday's event)-Movie option for the Fever series has expired, but KMM is happy about that.
2,5-3 Super-Surprised Stars BR with my awesome MacHalo Girls. (If we have any boys sorry, haven't noticed you.) When I was little and I did something wrong I would never apologise, even when I knew I was wrong. So my mom would ground me and yell and generally force the words "I'm sorry" out of my mouth because she thought that being unable to say sorry at such a young age was unhealthy but the words would come out fake and lose some of their value. Now you're probably all wondering what the hell
I hope she stays(or at least part of her).Fact, (view spoiler)[The Unseelie Princess thing was a great twist.
(hide spoiler)]Fact, the UK and the Concubine were one of my favorite things in this book.
(hide spoiler)]Fact, the whole Mac vs Book thing can evolve to greatness.
I hated it when we weren't sure if it was fact or lie and (view spoiler)[confirming it happened (hide spoiler)] didn't make me like it more.Fact, Mac in this book was a puny, silly, doormat version of herself.
(hide spoiler)]Fact, (view spoiler)[while I do like Jada, I thought the way KMM chose to grow Dani up was anti-climatic.
"Welcome to war games, Mac, where the terrain never stops changing and he who adapts fastest wins." Mac is back! For those of you who either skipped or disliked Iced because of Dani, have no fears, Burned is mainly told from Mac's POV, and it starts with a scene from Barrons POV. *sigh*The world is still in chaos.Mac is fighting inner 'demons'.Dani undergoes a change.Christian is still suffering attacks from the Crimson Hag.Mac makes a few discoveries about Barrons and the Nines.Alliances are m
For those of you who either skipped or disliked Iced because of Dani, have no fears, Burned is mainly told from Mac's POV, and it starts with a scene from Barrons POV.
*sigh*The world is still in chaos.Mac is fighting inner 'demons'.Dani undergoes a change.Christian is still suffering attacks from the Crimson Hag.Mac makes a few discoveries about Barrons and the Nines.Alliances are made and broken, while some characters finally meet their maker.I enjoyed catching up with the gang.
All the multiple POVs did get a little overwhelming at times, and I may be in the minority, but I really missed a certain character, (view spoiler)[ Dani.
Two years and two months later, Karen Marie Moning releases the seventh book in the highly anticipated Fever series with BURNED. After the countless delays and near-tear devastation readers experienced since the last release, the Moning Maniacs are in a frenzy waiting for this bomb to drop.True to her signature style, KMM approaches this book with the same intensity of all her previous books – but combine that and you get BURNED. The questions that arise in the previous book get answered, but t
After the countless delays and near-tear devastation readers experienced since the last release, the Moning Maniacs are in a frenzy waiting for this bomb to drop.True to her signature style, KMM approaches this book with the same intensity of all her previous books – but combine that and you get BURNED.
The questions that arise in the previous book get answered, but that’s not to say that there aren’t more twists and more questions along the way.Every time I read a KMM book, I try to speculate what is going to happen.
How do they come up with this stuff--hold parental powwows for brainstorming diametrically opposed ethics?You probably know, if you've read my Iced review, that Ryodan was my biggest problem in its pages.
Running prior conversations through my mind, realizing the man I believed moderately intelligent and highly manipulative of others--to their own detriment and destruction--is in fact highly intelligent and enormously manipulative of others, but I've begun to suspect it's because he's trying to fix what he perceives as the things they want fixed but don't know how.
I feel like they're going to be a problem for Mac and Co. at some point.2.
Waited for over two years on this book and done with reading in a few days... *sigh*
It felt like Karen was lost in the direction she wanted to go due to reader demands.
I think Karen wanted to stamp out Iced, and because the story is so rushed it turned out very messy.
Nothing actually happens for most of the book.
Barrons and Mac got all the praise.
It's like Karen didn't know what else to give us so she kept describing how amazingly great looking everyone is and they would be amazing in bed.
And because of the personality changes in the characters, this story reads like a romance novel.
The other P.O.Vs (Barrons, Christian, Lor, UK, Kat) combined got more page time than her.
Then when a situation arose where she could have proved the greatness that she claimed--when she faced Jada with Ryo & Barrons while they were fighting over the stones, in thirty seconds flat Mac got a bloody nose and three broken fingers.
I wonder how KMM plans for Ryo to eclipse Barrons when she keeps pushing Barrons as the greater one?Despite the exhausting-to-read P.O.Vs from Mac, I still enjoyed the little development we got from the story.
(KMM's blog post in aswer to some negativ reviews: https://www.goodreads.com/author_blog...) After reading Burned I want more than anything else for Karen Marie Moning to write the story of the Unseelie King from the concubine perspective.
Karen Marie Moning knows how to write and in my opinion you can see it, feel it best in those few chapters in Burned that are from his perspective.
For me Karen Marie Moning started a Young Adult series with Iced about Dani, a troubled teenager with great powers in an apocalyptical fantasy world.
Reading Burned erased my anger but instead now I am sad for Karen Moning.
Yes.Was Burned a good enough continuation of the series?
I haven't read any recent theories on Dani, so if mine have been dis-proven, I wouldn't know yet.
(view spoiler)[It says in the glossary at the end of the book that there are rumors of a female member of The Nine.
About Jada : I have the feeling that Jada will be separated from Dani's body at some point.
I think that Jada is Christian's soulmate and Dani is Ryo's, and since they are two distinct personalities, they might work in two separate bodies.
Ya know ...
I have many many feels now, got even more unanswered questions, I was prepared for this book to totally suck!
And guess what?
not for me anyways!
I don't know if it was because I missed Mac and Barrons so bloody much but I can honestly say that I liked it and I'm very much intrigued of what's coming after.
I do hope though we won't have to wait another millennia for the next book -___-Optimistic much!?
yeah ...
yeah ...
Those were the stones to your garden dear Moning.
Anywho ..
I wanted to know more about Cruce, the Unseelie/Seelie, and Mac and co trying to rebuild the walls/world - something that was actually overarching to the series as a whole, instead of the crappy villain/problem of the week type plot.-My opinion of Barrons went way down in this, he used to have a huge presence, not to mention great chemistry with Mac. In this he was so forgettable, it was like he couldn't be bothered with anyone or anything (maybe because his son died/got erased?
KMM made the unfortunate decision to go back to Mac’s whiny, irritating, endless monologue to please her old fans, while Dani fans sit here and wonder why we lost an amazing refreshing, original, voice in Urban Fantasy.
Let's be realistic here: KMM has no intention for Ryodan to surpass Barrons or she would have properly given him the 3 novels with Dani.
Everyone’s suddenly getting paired off with a love interest that it’s starting to feel like a soap opera with Ryodan and Lor arguing and fighting over Jo especially.
It’s disappointing to see such an amazing series crash and burn like this.
3.75 Stars ”You only know who you are in opposition to something, what you choose to fight for and against. The rest doesn’t matter.” This story is told from a few povs but mostly it's in Mac’s (This book is part of the Dani O'Malley trilogy so yeah WTH?) and had a lot going on. Mac is still sharing her body with the book and battles it's constant temptations. The main goal is for an unlikely grouping of leaders to work together in the attempt to free Christian from the Crimson Hag. The King str
This story is told from a few povs but mostly it's in Mac’s (This book is part of the Dani O'Malley trilogy so yeah WTH?) and had a lot going on.
Dani undergoes some crazy changes.
Lor gets his sexy on big time.
"Sex either blows your fucking mind or it's not good enough.
You want me to blow your fucking mind, Ms. Lane?
Be a big girl."
The story once again ends with a cliffhanger but I found it bearable.
I will say that my favorite girl's new developments (view spoiler)[WTH too many haters on Dani's age I guess but I want my girl back!!
The other one seemed to fit the story better, but this one's just doing the typical PNR cover of a guy flexing his abs :(.Update: 5/28/13What I think will happen in Burned:Warning: Spoilers for the Fever series and Iced are in this.
So these guesses will probably be wrong.Christian is either going to become good, or he will die.At the end of Iced, he was kidnapped by the Crimson Hag. I think Dani will rescue him.The fact that the nine can die is going to be important.
Update 9/16/2014: Wow, the new blurb is out and it looks like Mac will now be a main protagonist, not just Dani. Is this why the book took so long? The direction of this series apparently took a sharp left turn. "To reiterate, Mac and Dani are both primary protagonists in BURNED." -- KMM, Facebook-----------------------I can't wait, I can't wait!! Oh wait, I still have to wait...
Review posted at Ja čitam, a ti? Dani are you OK? Are you OK, Dani? (will you tell us that you're OK) Tanja: Glass, sorry it was stronger than me. Anyhow as each chapter in this book starts of with some popular lyrics I shall do the same (with some changes, though). But still it sums up the whole book for me. So, if you are ready let's discuss it.Glass: LOL, it does sum up latest Fever novel - I've been waiting for so long to find out what happened with Dani. But... I thought that Burned would b
So, if you are ready let's discuss it.Glass: LOL, it does sum up latest Fever novel - I've been waiting for so long to find out what happened with Dani.
And Burned crushed all of them.Tanja: Somehow I'm used to that when it comes to Moning.
It was unexpected (which is good thing), but also I'm disappointed because I'm pretty sure that it is not how the story should have developed judging by Iced.Tanja: Yes it was certainly unexpected, but then again I have no idea what to think of it.
A masterwork by an incomparable writer. Burned is brilliant, sexy, and dangerous. I adore Moning! No one does it better.
