https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8726744-the-twilight-saga-complete-collection
I think the only reason I was able to enjoy the movies was A) because I've read the books and know there's much more than the lame one-line dialogue they chuck out in the films and B) Robert Pattinson.
I have plenty of other reasons as to why I enjoyed this series and here they are.- I love the idea of living in a world where Vampires & Werewolves exist.
And I don't see Bella's choices as being much of a sacrifice.(view spoiler)[I remember the first time I read Twilight and within the first half of the book I already felt she was meant to be a vampire.
Hmm, what can I say about this book series. It's been a while since I've read it, and for what I can remember, the fist book was good, quick paced and interesting, the second, darker and got a better view on Bella's feelings, the third seriously boring and the fourth just did not worth it. So, 2,5 out of 5.
3.5-4 starsNot my favorite kind of vampires, but a sweet series.
I honestly could've made a drinking game out of the book: How many times does Bella say Edward is attractive, someone says an asinine line, and how many times I wanted to chuck the book in the trash.The characters were static and very annoying to read, the plot in all four books could be described in one short sentence, the writing was shoddy, and it didn't convey a good message (no, "I would become a vampire for the guy I just met" and "always date crazy-obsessive people" doesn't count.).Honestly, as a fellow writer, I wrote a better story at 11 than this.
Twilight is about how important it is to have a boyfriend.”PREACH.The one thing I will hand to Stephanie Meyer, however, is that somehow she is still aware of EXACTLY what a teenage girl wants to read.
When I first read the books, I loved Edward, and I thought Bella was juuuust like meeeeeeee.
As do most of the other girls on the planet, I imagine.
So kudos to Meyer for managing to bottle down in *only* four books every instance of wish fulfilment a girl could ever need in her literature.
Bella insists she's not pretty, yet no less than three guys immediately jump in to flirt with her in awkward high school ways, and from what Edward said, "that's not what every single male in the school was thinking".If that isn't a shout-out to all Mary Sue traits, then I don't know what is.Bella spends half of every book swooning and gushing over his goregeous, angel-like model looks, worrying over how plain she is next to him, and how he's so rich and it makes her feel awkward.
Keeping in mind the target audience and not expecting great literary depth, I highly enjoyed the book.
The depth of love between the main characters is a bit unsupported and unbelievable in the first book, but it is a fantasy after all.
5 starsBook 2: New Moon (The Twilight Saga, Book 2) by Stephenie Meyer.
If this book disappoints, hang in there, the 4th is by far the best.
3 StarsBook 3: Eclipse (The Twilight Saga, Book 3) by Stephenie Meyer.
4 stars.Book 4: Breaking Dawn (The Twilight Saga Book 4) by Stephenie Meyer.
By far the best of the 4 books.
Though we all have an image of what Edward and Bella look like if we were to read it now but it still doesn't take away from the glorious vampiric world that Stephenie Meyer created.
The beauty of reading it before the casting was you had your own idea of what the characters looked like and that is the great thing about books.
For me, I was entranced from Page of 1 of the first Twilight book about this meek, clumsy girl named Bella (told in first perspective so I immediately projected myself into Bella and saw the world through her eyes) and the day she encountered that mysterious and charming man that would change her life forever.
My brain has been a bit burnt out recently, so I felt like reading something a bit lighter, and I was curious about the Twilight Saga having heard a great deal about the sexual connotations of the vampire narratives and the link to preservation of virginity movements in the USA.
This is a little reminiscent of the old myth about domestic violence - "he never meant to hurt me" - which is brought out disturbingly when Bella and Edward finally have sex in the final book, Breaking Dawn.
she is given a lot of attention by author, more than she deserves, i mean like come on, a normal backward girl who is not assertive and not the "beautifullest" or outgoing is chased by allot of handsome hunks?
if people would be asking alice out, or even rosalie, take at least jennifer who are far more mixing and awesome than this lame girl.
I can understand the fact why author made the lead girl so lame and a person who is not mixing and wants to hide from the world, but then making every guy after her?
The Twilight Saga is undeniably one of my guilty pleasures.
I think Breaking Dawn is the very best of the four volumes, and Renesmee, the daughter of Edward and Bella, is a cute little half-human, half vampire kid.
Vampire Bella, as opposed to human Bella is also pretty intense.
The Twilight Saga, while not a thing to be taken seriously (and will never be as good a fantasy tale as Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings, or the Chronicles of Narnia), is still an entertaining wish fulfillment saga with a supernatural twist, which is just what it's supposed to be.
I'll be honest. I read these books because my daughter and my students were reading it and I like to be able to intelligently converse with them about things that are important to them. I think the reading/vocabulary is actually simplistic and easy-to-read so it is great for those who aren't the "best" readers and it got many of my reluctant readers to read avidly! I don't love the vampire/werewolf fad but I think it is basically the same old good/evil theme in play. Remember,that Edward and the Cullens are "good" and don't seek to harm humans at all.
Promotes domestic abuse :(
Excellent series! One of my favorites. So much better than the movies.
Good to read
Do I really need to say anything? For the love of God why ?? Just no
Love these books 😍
Really that's what bugs me about the series the most is that Edward's and Bella's and even Jacob's behavior is not only really annoying and unrealistic, but it's now what every Twilight Tweenie Bopper fan (and some ladies too) want.
However, I don't think it'd be a problem for those who have a firm grasp on what is fantasy and how stupid, detrimental, and dangerous some of the behavior in this book would be in real life.Still, for all it's faults, the book plays straight to those deep dark (or not so deep and dark) fantasies and day dreams that girls have (and perhaps some guys too) and that makes the whole thing a lot like crack.
I had a hard time with this book, it was easy to read, but I did not like the weak female lead (Bella) who had to be saved numerous times contrasted with the super-everything-vampire.To be fair, the idea of turning the vampire myths on its head was great!
First, that someone has a secret and Bella has to use her wits to figure it out herself (sort of like Book 1 but with Jacob instead of Edward).
Bella also has a special ability as a vampire and is able to protect her family.I enjoyed the wrapup to the series immensely.
First, I have absolutely no problem with the people that like/love these books.
Anything that gets people to read more is a plus for me.
I had no idea what I was getting into when I picked up this plotless book full of stereotypes (particularly the character that represents the author herself).
If vampires are so good and sparkly, why wouldn't everyone that knows about them want to be turned into a vampire?
To show how special Bella is, I guess.
I think the theme throughout all of the books was love and sacrafice.
And in the third book a theme could be Good vs Bad because the Cullens try to kill all the bad vampires.
I think the subject of the book was to show that anyone can fall in love.
I think that Stephanie Meyer wrote this book because she wanted to write a love story but with an unusual twist.
I think Stephanie Meyer is a great author.
I most definitely reccomend it if your are the kind of person who likes a mix between love stories and a little something extra.
as far as word candy goes, this is sticky sweet, initially satisfying, but in the end, i regretted it.i found the books initially entertaining, even though edward and bella (and well all of them) found ways to annoy me.
i couldn't believe i was supposed to be happily going along with this!i did enjoy the initial descriptions of what it first felt like to BE a vampire.
who hasn't secretly desired to know that power and freedom?but in the end, i realized how messed up the relationship between bella and edward was.
i mean, could bella be a WORSE example for a young girl?
don't do anything so silly as BELIEVE him!"and edward.
I know there are a lot of criticisms of Meyers Vamps, but I love the characters and the developments of each of them.
I love Edward for his flaws and his attributes, and I appreciate that Meyers created a man for modern men to live up to.
I respect the ideals of virginity and marriage so much, props to Meyers.Still, I think that the books could have been achieved with far less trees executed.
I think I may have to read them again to try to sort out my opinions on each, but overall I liked them a lot.(I loved The Host though, far more than Twilight Saga.
But before Twilight, vampires had a cape and chased Scooby-Doo around, ya know?
And look at the effect it had, there are like millions of more vampire stories being written because of this series.
But after seeing to many interviews or Rob Pattinson trash talk Edward, I did take a step back.
It's pretty ridiculous and the whole Edward/Jacob thing just bothered me.
I read Breaking Dawn the day it was released and felt like it belonged to a different book series.
It had a major cultural impact, no lie, and it's not trash but o.m.g I could just laugh at some of the stuff in these books.
Although I'm not sure that this is the best written story, it is still a good read.
While I find Bella to be such a wimp, and so in need of a man, at such a young age, it is still a beautiful story of love.
Such a triangle of love, as young Bella is torn between two men, who wrap her into a world of the supernatural.
She's in love with Edward, the vampire, and can't seem to be able to live without him.
But, she's also in love with Jacob, the wolf.
I had a YA Literature professor who reffered to some books as "potato chip books".
But once you have finished the "chip bag" so to speak, you didnt really get any nutrients out of it.Thats how I felt about this series.
Its one of the first series of books I ever completed.
I read each one of them in a day or two.I always want to go back for more, but at the end of the day, when the series is finished...
I learned nothing from reading these books.
oh, I also learned that Bella hearts Edward.
This is the second time I've read this complete seriesThe first time as for many I had to wait for e
You can read my reviews of each book separately:Twilight, New Moon, Eclipse, Breaking Dawn, & The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner.*Not impressed. The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner is the exception to the series.
I reread afterwards and felt incredibly stupid.
Her writing is not nearly at the level I appreciate most and I felt guilty for calling her amazing.
I could rant about her needing to go back to school to learn how to use proper imagery, being contradicting, and favoring emotionally abusive relationships (Yes, I count being constantly told by the 'love of your life' that you're not wanted as emotionally abusive), but it's kind of a waste of my time.
The love-sick fans will probably get all pissy at me, others may or may not understand until they read it themselves, and I can't force people to change their opinions.
Because after all, all these reviews are opinions and those should be respected even if one disagrees.
Honestly, I loved it at that time.
But when I turnd 14 and I read it again, I just really felt..
nothing reading it.
It wasn't really that good, but I just wanted so much to feel the same thing as I felt when I was younger.
But honestly..
the novel isn't really exciting, but what I truly love(d) was the relationship between Jacob and Bella.
But it was just like nothing went on but Bella being shy and Jacob jelly.
If I read it now (again) I would see all the (in my opinion) boring things it contains.
