https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12842.Journey_to_Ixtlan


This is the first in a series of books which Castaneda wrote after he realized that his prior emphasis on psychotropic drugs was a misleading and "erroneous" means of conveying the lessons he gained from his apprenticeship with don Juan.I began reading with few expectations and progressed with delight at how engrossed I became.
I also found myself laughing out loud at various times throughout this book.
It seems to me that all the ideas in that book have been articulated a million times before, although in more individualized, artistic and passionate language.
Don Juan encapsulates the entire message of Tolle's book in two sentences: ".
The Don Juan series, of which Journey to Ixtlan is the central volume, were initially acclaimed as a breakthrough in anthropological field research.
Journey to Ixtlan became his UCLA doctoral dissertation, and was the most noted book of the series because in it Carlos turns away from psychedelic plants and follows Don Juan as his apprentice.
Journey to Ixtlan feels so real, and we get so involved with Carlos' struggle to learn a separate reality, that we become in some sense believers in his alternative universe.
Whatever genre Journey to Ixtlan fits into, or if it fits into none at all, it's a life changing read.
If we follow the second and erase personal history, we create a fog around us, a very exciting and mysterious state in which nobody knows where the rabbit will pop out, not even ourselves." p34-35"Death is the only wise adviser that we have.""The thing to do when you're impatient, is to turn to your left and ask advice of your death." p55"He said the only thing that counted was action, acting instead of talking." p61"When a man decides to do something he must go all the way, but he must take responsibility for what he does.
I read all three, one after the other, while working at the Chicago Womens' Athletic Club during the summer between college and seminary.Although it appears to be the case that Castaneda, the author, fabricated some of the material appearing in his accounts, including that of his doctoral dissertation which begins the series, it also appears to be the case that he knows a good deal about altered states of consciousness.
In other words, the other worlds are real--indeed, they are truer in the sense of being more meaningful than the quotidian routines of our normal lives.Phenomenologically, this is certainly the case to many, whether they experience non-ordinary realities through the use of drugs, spiritual exercise or because such things happen to them, either occasionally or regularly.
I have read all of Castenedas books and this is the one you should start with. The first three books tell the same story, but Ixtlan gets it right and you miss little of importance from the first two books. From Tales of Power on, I give the books five stars. To those who say it's fiction, I say so what? The wisdom and knowledge of Don Juan is a priceless gift to all of us warriors on the path of knowledge and the books are page turners of the first order.
Well, almost 10 years has it been now, since I read this book.There have been odd discussions about 
شما هر روز با هم بودید، تا آنجا که جز ملال احساسی برای هم نداشتید. اینطور نیست؟
As I’ve stated before, Castaneda admits later on that his compulsive obsession on non ordinary reality as produced by hallucinogenic plants was the wrong area to fixate, and in Journey to Ixtlan, he recapitulates on many of the notes previously discarded.It is in this wonderful story that Carlos introduces many concepts, or rather elucidates on many concepts, which Don Juan had introduced since their initial encounter; not-doing, stopping the world, living as a warrior, and dreaming.What baffles me the most is that skeptics-and I was one-fixate on the impossibility of the story without so much as trying any of the prescribed techniques.I remember being a small child.
بسیاری از مولفه های ادیان ابتدایی , در این عرفان یافت می شود.
این عرفان دارای پیشینه ای قدیمی در حوزه قبایل سرخ پوستی ست.کاستاندا خود را شاگرد مرشدی به نام دون خوان معرفی میکند و حاصل رابطه استاد و شاگردی تعالیمیست که در کتاب آمده.میان این دو دوستی عمیقی برقرار می شود و دون خوان هم خود را شخصی معرفی میکند که دارای معرفت عظیمی ست و توانایی درک و مشاهده چیزهایی را دارد که دریافت معمولی ما قادر به درک و مشاهده آن نیست ...از نظر دون خوان ما در یک حباب ادراک هستیم.
Hm. This is a tough one for me!A friend of mine, someone I've always admired, recently recommended this book along with several others.
I wrote them all down and immediately went to look for them at my local library.Upon arriving, I discovered that, not only had I forgotten the list of books, I had no idea how to navigate the nonfiction section.
I told my friend and he said, "It's that kind of book.
You'll see." And then he reminded me of the Dewey Decimal System.Yes, it is that kind of book.
And, I can see why my friend recommended it to me.
بنظرم رفتن به عالم بالا یا ابعاد فراتر بوسیله مواد مخدر یا توهم زا که در این کتاب شدیدا مستقیم بهش اشاره میشه هیچ چیز باارزشی نداره.هی تاکید براینکه انسان چیز خاصی نیستم زیاد قشنگ نیست البته به جز اون قسمت که به کارلوس میگه:به گل بگو معذرت میخوام که تورو میکنم و مطمئن باش که من خودم تا چند وقت دیگه خوراک تو میشم پس با تو برابرم.کلا هدف این کتاب خیلی مشخص نیست و نظم خاصی هم نداره .
که البته من بهش حق میدم و اگر جای اون بودم هیچوقت کسی مثل دون خوان رو به ارشدی نمیپذیرفتم .
That dishonesty, and the consequent inaccuracies added to the body of anthropological work, and to the subject of metaphysics, has to be considered when reviewing Journey to Ixtlan (or Castaenda's other works in the series).
If you are seeking metaphysical understanding, then reject these works as literal truth - but decide for yourself whether they serve you well as allegory and metaphor.
They're not the most sophisticated works on various philosophical concepts, but they're an entertaining overview for novices.I found this a much better book than the previous two in the series, The Teachings of Don Juan and A Separate Reality.
However…well, there's a lot of fantastic magic that takes place in front of this eye-witness.In spite of all of that, I feel as though I picked up a lot from reading it, and I felt as though much of what I go through in my own life has only been confirmed by Don Juan's teachings to Carlos.
I liked that.But, the last chapter, the confession of knowing once you make this transformation, there's no turning back, and one is still human once conquering their "ally" and seeing the other worlds…and one cannot go back to the place they once called home in spite of taking the rest of their life to journey back.
This and its follow-up book Tales of Power changed my life when I read them in my mid-20s...
If you are open to the teachings in these books, they can truly be powerful and life-changing and, living far away from home as I was in my mid-20s in Finland, I was captivated by Don Juan's teachings since, as a youth, I had traveled a lot with my family in Mexico and the American Southwest so I could visualize (from Finland) the landscapes and culture they were part of.
Anyway, this book goes into my all-time favorites list because of how its teachings so shaped who I became as an adult.
This third installment really filled in the gaps of the first two books with Don Juan. I really appreciated the fact that he disregarded his original emphasis on the significance of phsychotropic drugs in the teachings of Don Juan and really focused more on the changing of one's consciousness without using drugs.
I took this book out of the library on a whim, because I like looking at different points of view.
He went to study and ended up on a series of strange journeys with don Juan Matus, a sorcerer or shaman, and the student became his apprentice.The book is full of incomprehensible statements and alternate ways of looking at reality which are difficult to understand--at least this was my experience.
If so, some people who want to gain confidence in themselves might find the alternate perspectives in this book thought provoking.This author wrote other similar books; for me however, one was enough.
My favourite of Carlos' books.
I came to his works at the tail end of a very long and extensive reading campaign, the purpose of which was to attain *practical* utilisable enhancement of self.
I would read with a red pen, underlining what was of value, and could be applied, copying out those underlinings into large notebooks.
When I came to Carlos, my trusty pen worked overtime.
A fabulous book in terms of starting one's journey.
I wanted to like this book and expected to get a lot out of it as my first read by Castaneda, but I found I had to force myself to read it in fits and starts and it took me the better part of a month.
I think we all want to believe that ancient primitive cultures have a deep "knowing" that we've all forgotten in our "civilized ways," and tapping into that can be a profound experience.
Apologies to all the Castaneda fans out there but for my money if you're into this type of reading I think Paulo Coelho is better.Don R.
(Particularly given the primary theme of questioning reality and the "phantoms" that populate it.) Also, these books are not about peyote or other drugs.
One of the most creative things about Castenada is his ability to identify "non ordinary reality", or insinuations of it, in otherwise mundane but overlooked aspects of daily life.
(E.g., the colored spots you see when you close your eyes.) The drug bent to me seems just a way to lend his descriptions some plausibility for the reader until the reader gets far enough along to consider that altered states may indeed be achievable -- even unavoidable -- when stone cold sober.
It is books like this that I really enjoy finding.
I am not sure why I held off reading Castaneda's works for so long, perhaps I just wasn't at a place to enjoy them, who knows.
This is the third book in the series but if you want to know the truth it is the first book that should be read.
When he realized all the real information that he had discarded which were the core teachings of Don Juan he wrote this book.
The basic teachings of how to view the world.
This is the second book in the series written by Carlos Castaneda.
I started this book in 1983, I was 19 years old, out of high school with no direction.
I was travelling to Brooklyn, by bus, one hour each way; so I needed a book to pass the time.
Castaneda starts off with a scientist view, as a skeptic and later is blown away by what happens to him, which then becomes his life long pursuits.
If you plan on reading these books, start with the Yaqui Way of Life, which is the first book and be prepared to be engrossed in Don Juan's teachings.
کتاب جالبیه، و حرف هایی می زنه که از جنس دنیای من نیست، شاید هنوز امادگی عرفان سرخپوستی رو ندارم. در هرحال، چیزی که نوشته، در خوشبینانه ترین حالت اگر واقعی باشه، چیزینیست که بتونی تجربه اش رو با خوندن به دست بیاری
کتاب جالبیه، و حرف هایی می زنه که از جنس دنیای من نیست، شاید هنوز امادگی عرفان سرخپوستی رو ندارم. در هرحال، چیزی که نوشته،‌ در خوشبینانه ترین حالت اگر واقعی باشه، چیزی‌نیست که بتونی تجربه اش رو با خوندن به دست بیاری
No me gustó y no la terminé. Rayos. No me gusta dejar libros a medias pero al llegar a la mitad y ver que sólo lo leía por inercia y por encargo me sentí muy mal con ese libro. Quizás más adelante lo logre. Por lo pronto, sigo sin creerle a Castañeda su trabajo. Queda en ficción, nada más.
This is the Castaneda book that many of my friends say is their favorite. So if you are only planning on reading one, pick this one. You don't need to read the first book, for IXTLAN to make sense.
La razón es que "Viaje a Ixtlán" no nos ofrece la continuidad de los hechos narrados en el tomo anterior, sino que retrocede en el tiempo, al punto mismo en que inicia la historia.
Entonces, los personajes solamente aspiran a convivir con las fuerzas ocultas de la naturaleza y de ser posible aprovecharlas en su favor, pero no pretenden en ningún modo comprenderlas.Aún así, me parece incorrecto que se relacione esta literatura con el movimiento New Age, (una ideología "light" que terminó siendo un motivo más de consumo).
I find all of Castaneda’s books unique, fascinating and engrossing, and this one is no exception,We are told about how Carlos met Juan Matus in a bus station in Arizona, and that this was the start of a ten-year apprenticeship.Carlos first learns about the importance of erasing one’s personal history since this makes us free from the encumbering thoughts of other people.
Carlos sees “the lines of the world”.We understand that Carlos’ time with Don Juan has come to an end, since it is time for the latter to leave this world.
“Our ring of power,” Don Juan says, is “hooked to the doing of the world in order to make the world.” Forgoing rationality, and decentering to see the world as it is, not as it is from our perspective, is one way to look at this book, but I think that this might not be what Castaneda is about.
It’s for the hunter and warrior who finds himself (herself?) in two worlds – the phantom world of the here and now, the world of ego and control, the world of loved ones; and the real world that is something quite other.
دون خوان گفتـ ما برای همه اعمالمان نياز به رفتار جنگجو داریم .
اگر نه دچار انحراف و زشتی میشویم .
زندگی بدون چنين رفتاری عاری از اقتدار است .
خودت را نگاه کن .
عصبانی وخشمگين می شوی ، ناله می کنی ، شکایت می کنی و گمان می کنی هر کس تـورا به ساز خـودش مـی رقصـاند و تـو برگـی در گـرو بـاد هسـتی .
در زنـدگی تـو اقتـدارنيست .
وای که چه وحشتناک است !
درعوض یک جنگجو ماننـد یـک شـکارچی همـهچيز را محاسبه می کند .
ولـی وقتـی همـه چيـز رامحاسبه کرد ، اقدام می کند .
برای یک جنگجو تـا‬‫وقتی که خودش رفتار صحيحی دارد هيچ چيز برخورنده ای در اعمال همنوعانش وجـود‬‫ندارد۰‫تو دیشب از دست شير خشمگين نشدی و از اینکه ما را دنبال کـرد عصـبانی نبـودی .
حال اگر تو تنها بودی و شير تو را می گرفت و پـاره پـاره مـی کـرد ، هرگـز‬‫بفکرت نمی رسيد که شکوه و شکایت کنی ، یا خود را سر افکنده ببينی .
بـرای جـان‬سالم بدر بردن از نيرنگهای دنيا و مردم آن تو به رفتار جنگجو نياز داری‬۰‫برایش توضيح دادم که شير کوهی و هـم نوعـان مـرا نمـی شـود در یـک ردیـف قـرار داد .
