https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31623.Blow_Fly
Book Review  3 out of 5 stars to Blow Fly, the 12th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" thriller and mystery series, written in 2003 by Patricia Cornwell. In this book, Cornwell changes the point of view to third person, which is different from previous books. It was awkward at first, but I am usually good with these types of switches. I found some problems with it, but I wasn't as concerned as several other readers were. What did bug me a little was this felt a bit like the Hannibal Lecter series for
Book Review
3 out of 5 stars to Blow Fly, the 12th book in the "Kay Scarpetta" thriller and mystery series, written in 2003 by Patricia Cornwell.
In this book, Cornwell changes the point of view to third person, which is different from previous books.
And suddenly, the Wolfman (a killer from previous books) who is still in jail, asks to see Kay. And he's got information about what's going on.
I was like "wait wait wait..." but then it takes different turns, so it's OK.
Given the interesting changes and confusion, I wasn't super keen on this book; however the plot and mystery aspects were strong, so I it evened-out for me.
Reading through many of the reviews of this book on goodreads it's impossible to ignore the negative feedback Cornwell received after publishing this 12th installment of her Kay Scarpetta series.
I was a devoted Scarpetta reader and many years ago I quit following this series after reading Blow Fly. It wasn't because I thought the book was badly written.
In Blow Fly, Cornwell decides to bring him back and for some reason it rubbed me the wrong way as a long time reader.
Blow Fly was published in 2003 and Cornwell has just released her 21st Scarpetta novel this year.
Good entertainment, good build-up with a dicey ending.Lots of characters but the book is well compartmentalized – over 120 chapters. Not really a Kay Scarpetta-pathologist mystery. The ending lets one of the(view spoiler)[ main protagonists escape (hide spoiler)] setting up a sequel which I will not read. This book does have references to previous ones, but it didn’t hinder plot understanding. One loop-hole is of the (view spoiler)[murder of Marino’s son in Poland – what happened to the car that
Good entertainment, good build-up with a dicey ending.Lots of characters but the book is well compartmentalized – over 120 chapters.
The ending lets one of the(view spoiler)[ main protagonists escape  (hide spoiler)] setting up a sequel which I will not read.
This book does have references to previous ones, but it didn’t hinder plot understanding.
One loop-hole is of the (view spoiler)[murder of Marino’s son in Poland – what happened to the car that Rudy used to get to the Polish city?
This scene was logically constructed from the point of view of Lucy (Scarpetta’s niece), much less so for Rudy.
(hide spoiler)]
On a second read I found the multiple narrators less of an issue - because I was expecting it this time round - and it was interesting to see how the other characters in Kay's world viewed her and their places in her life.
I enjoyed the interconnected plots and how Blow Fly ties up a lot of loose threads from previous books whilst opening a new storyline for the next book.
(view spoiler)[ I also love the fact that Benton is back and alive and Kay now knows about him!
This was one of the few Scarpetta books that I hadn't read yet, and I must say that it doesn't live up to the expectations that Cornwell set with the earlier Scarpetta books. Not much mention through the entire book of the actual forensic work or investigation. I am a huge Cornwell fan and this one left me quite disappointed!
I really used to like Corwell's books but the Scarpetta series seems to have become more and more ludicrous as time has passed.
All fair enough I suppose but to lead the reader through these corridors of fantasy to end the story in about five pages as though running out of time on an exam essay cheats us.
The plot had plenty of merit, the story not badly told although perhaps lacking some of the scientific investigation of previous tomes.
A great disappointment, more so if you have enjoyed previous Scarpetta escapades..
I didn't recognise that I'd already read this when I found it in a charity shop.
This is one of the ones where Cornwell's lost the plot completely as far as I am concerned.
(Who did the shopping / cleaning in the mega mansion?) But at the end of each book she had to get a huge promotion which meant that very quickly the only possible promotion was divinity so then Cornwell decided to blow Scarpetta's perfect world apart - about as plausibly as the Smersh plots in James Bond.
Her earlier books put her at the top of the genre, but this one is sad indeed.
I understand better than most how hard it is to keep the writing on a series fresh, but this radical departure was like going to my favorite Italian restaurant and finding they were now serving hot dogs and pretzels.
Very little Scarpetta, no forensics, and I was lost half the time because it's been a while since I read the previous book.
They say the next one is better, but had I read this as the first example of her work, I'd read no more.
I used to really like Patricia Cornwell, especially the Scarpetta series. However, this being the 12th in the series, she's getting a little wild. Cornwell has gotten much gorier and more gruesome in her writing. I think she's reaching rather than telling another story in Scarpetta's life.
La Scarpetta seems to mesmerise men, among her followers are police investigator and whinger Pete Marino, whose son Rocco is the lawyer for the crime family, and her lover Benton, presumed dead, but ghosting under the witness protection program while manipulating everyone.
The bright spot in this gruesome killing saga is the interlude to the port city of Szcsecin in Poland, not far from the border with Germany, where Scapetta’s niece Lucy and Rudy (both former FBI agents with the Hostage Rescue Team), bring about the assassination of Marino’s son, Rocco.400 pages in our happy little group converges on Baton Rouge - Scarpetta collecting 2 more admirers - and as the pages dwindled I thought I was about to be duded by yet another ‘cliffhanger’, tempting me to buy the next book in the series.
The Dr. Kay Scarpetta series is one of my very favorite mystery series. The character development from book to book is quite good, you really get to know them. The bad guys are really bad and, of course, there is one that keeps returning. There's some real good twists. Also, I loved the forensics.
Cornwell makes many changes to the twelfth novel in the Scarpetta series, easily identifiable to series regulars.
When Scarpetta heads to Texas to face the Wolfman on death row, everything comes to a head and the eerie sensation Cornwell painted in her past two novels pushes to a higher level.
With a powerful ending, Blow Fly keeps readers wondering what else Scarpetta might face in adventures to come.Cornwell’s changes will shock series regulars, but, at least in this novel, proved both useful and effective.
Three stories blended into one, with cliffhangers at many turns, makes the use of these shorter chapters effective.
At first, I was sorry Ms. Cornwell killed him off, but now I'd rather see a more appealing character than him written in, one who doesn't need a fire built under him, than have Benton back to do little more than contribute to Scarpetta's already gloom-ridden persona.
There could be some interesting new character spin-offs, however, with regard to the Chandonne grandson, who is now parentless and grandmotherless.
Scarpetta personally kills Wolfman (and soon), she adopts the little boy, then lives tragically ever after, depressed and wondering if the weird kid is a chip off the old block, i.e., Jay Talley.
YA-AWN!Why do I keep reading books that are part of a series that I've never read?
Because people give them to me and say "this is a really good book!" And maybe it was to people who have read the Kay Scarpetta series from book one, and are really into the personal relationships of the characters, but I have not, and I was not.There were hints along the way of an actual murder mystery going on, you know ...
On page 370 of 467!
Why did I waste my time on the first 370 pages ...
the Wolfman got away so there's sure to be another boring-ass book coming soon!
Pants crapping awful.
r local politicians and people of importance trying to cover up something and why has it been brought to her attention by jean baptiste?
the usual characters r here but in all honesty i think u would be wise to read these books in chronological order just a few questions - nic did not follow up on the vehicle registration; no mention was made of camera footage either in the car park or stores; how could jean baptiste read letters?
a lot of unanswered questions and clues that leave it open for a sequel bev
On Texas' Death Row a sadistic killer is days from his execution. He has a plan to kill Dr. Kay Scarpetta who is now in private practice. In Louisiana his fraternal twin is killing and butchering women who resemble Kay. Kay's niece and friends work to protect her.
Blow Fly is the third and final in a trilogy of books within the series that focuses on recurring and linked, bizarre serial killers and the disintegrating personal and professional lives of the main characters.
But alas, Cornwell cannot resist resurrecting Benton in Blow Fly. Thankfully, all of the bad guys finally get dead in this book and, in future books, Cornwell can move Scarpetta back to her Richmond, Virginia roots in an attempt to try to recapture a bit of what lured fans to the initial books in the series.
Poor contination of the Scarpetta/Chardonne ugly soap opera...That we've had to wait a few years since the "Last Precinct" [skipping the wretched non-Scarpetta "Isle of Dogs" and Cornwell's non-fiction book about Jack the Ripper:] made us anxious to devour Kay Scarpetta's return.
He manages to escape from prison while on death row (seriously?!) and apparently is still at large at the end, so something tells me we haven't seen the last of him.This dark work sees Scarpetta as just a shell of her former self; dwells on Lucy as some sort of goddess; and disappoints from short chapter to short chapter (124 in all).
Her continual grumbling and carry-on in "The Last Precinct" was enough for me to tell her shove it, but this book gave different insights as we saw things from the killers, the cops and our other favourite characters' perspective.
"Blow Fly" I found was a refreshing change which gave the many answers for which readers sought throughout the previous novel (which gave anything but).
I thoroughly enjoyed "Blow Fly" and look forward to the next one in the series as we see the characters fall into their new roles, and Scarpetta settle into private practice in Miami
This was a total disappointment.
I've always loved that Scarpetta was smart and capable.
But the Scarpetta in this book has sunk into depression and dwells on how far she's fallen since she was pushed out of her Chief Medical examiner's position largely by politics.
The most disappointing thing to me was that Scarpetta doesn't have any agency of her own instead only reacting to the manipulations of others.
Perhaps Cornwell has some brilliant plan to revive Scarpetta, in future books (and at this time there are currently a total of 19 Scarpetta books), but I'm really coming to doubt that.
That annoying grown up Lucy/Kay dynamic is not as central and mind-numbingly repetitive and boring as it is in several other of the later books.
(I mean, could that Lucy character be ANY more blandly self-obsessed?)Despite being built around the ridiculous antagonist from the silly wolfman book set in Paris, this time around he's used to much better and more persuasive effect--for the first 3/4 or 4/5 of the book.
Then, as so often happens in Cornwell's later books, the whole story is wrapped up in a matter of a few pages with a couple of utterly implausible or deus ex machina like plot developments.
It is hard getting used to the third person recitations of these later Kay Scarpetta novels, but they do have one positive aspect, you really are getting to know the mindsets of Lucy, Marino and Benton.
The book also introduces at least one new character who will play a part in future novels, and his backstory explains why Lucy really left the FBI.
Although it seems a bit scattered at first the book builds with a lot of suspense and really comes together at the end.
I do miss the first person narration of Kay but I can't say this was a bad entry into the series.
Sigh. Well, it was airplane reading that lasted a little longer than the flights. Frustrating, because I think Cornwell is capable of slightly better writing. The book is a walking definition of MELODRAMA!
The worst ending to a book ever. I mean it wasn't great up until then, but it was really like she couldn't be arsed anymore and thought "Screw it, five more pages is all I can be bothered with."
Dang this one makes me mad.
I am going to write a very short review that contains no spoilers -- but I have to say there are two huge issues with this book.1.
On of the main characters is always just over the line with respect to the law.
Unfortunately this volume sees her commit murder.
Not self defense.
Not defense of others.
Murder!2.
I quit this series the last time after another main character was killed.
I am almost as mad that he was brought back from the dead as I was that he was killed in the first place.
My review includes slight spoilers...So for all the descriptions, lead ins, following of the different stories... I felt the wrap up was way too quick and short. Like let wrap up this entire novel in like 4 paragraphs. All the loose ends explained very briefly. I really felt it need more description at the end. Sort of like she had to turn in the novel and didn't really get to finish it. Not really sure if I'd read another novel in the series.I did listen to this about 90% by audiobook.
I felt Kay Scarpetta got lost in this book. Finding Chandonne story a little boring but have a feeling is going to be stretched out for a few more books yet. Despite this look forward to reading the next in the series.
i'm on the fence plot-wise;ocr errors aggravate the matter
I'm sure it's all down to money with author and publishers.Reference book and cut and paste writing.No regard to continuity on the part of author or editor, gets in the way of making money I guess.Still quick reads and caters for masochistic traits.
