https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/196764.A_Piece_of_Cake
But this is a situation where those six words could never be more true.Following the death of her mother, Cupcake finds herself in a string of heinous and abusive foster homes.
Attempting to run away several times, unafraid of whatever consequences will come her way, Cupcake is introduced to Candy, a prostitute.
Cupcake's story is soul-shattering, yet, it is also life-affirming.
It also sheds light on some pretty hard-hitting topics, e.g., abuse and the foster care system, prostitution, gangs, and drug use.
It's Cupcake's story.Trigger Warning: This book contains graphic descriptions of rape and child abuse.
Did you ever read Push or see the film (it was called Precious)?
That was like an extract from this book.
I've never read anything like it.
I am seeing life not from a girl at the very bottom of the ladder, but one who had violin lessons and then became a victim of a system that does not help those it doesn't want to._________Update I'm three-quarters of the way through.
It will end up being 90 mins of Hollywood glamour rather than the street-grit of documentary film-making the subject cries out for.
I really liked it.Of those who didn't they complained generally about one of two (or both) things:1) The story was too unbelievable; therefore, it must be exaggerated or falsified in some way; and2) The book is poorly written--has bad grammar and obvious transitions, for example--and probably should have been written by a ghost-writer.I disagree with both of these points.
If there's one thing this memoir is, it is real, in every sense of the word......which brings me to point 2: the writing.
The writing makes this book a quick read, and it also makes it real.
The story is so incredible, at times I felt like I was reading another Frey memoir that was somewhat embellished.
If you don't like rough language- this one will be tough.
Isn't that what is so great about reading!
This book put a slightly different spin on how I might view the underbelly of society, it isn't always a choice- but the better choice from what they were given as a start in life.
We can all use a bit more compassion and Cupcake endures all to make her own choices in life.
She's a woman I'd like to meet in person.
This memoir is the life story of Cupcake Brown, a woman who has overcome abuse, drug and alcohol addiction, prostitution, domestic violence and gang life to become a successful attorney and thanks to this book, a best-selling author.
Almost all the early chapters end with some over the top dramatic sentences that were something like "I had no idea that my whole life was about to change" or "All of that stopped with what happened next." Too much.
All in all, this is a very compelling life story that deserves a better writer, so it can be told properly.
This is a great story, but even that can not make up for the horrible writing techniques.
The author has had an amazing life and her story is truly amazing and leaves a feeling of hope for those who have friends or family involved in addiction.
However, she tends to ramble and repeat her situations to the point that the story becomes boring and redundant.
I feel that if someone else had written this story for her and shortened it by about 100 pages (the repetitiveness)it would be much higher in my list of recommendations.
I first read this book years ago and fell in love with it but I don't think I was able to fully appreciate then as I did this time around.
Because truly, I don't think there's any word more fitting to describe what Cupcake went through than hell.
And that made me appreciate Cupcake's story all the more because not only did she truly hit rock bottom, but she fought and clawed her way out of it and (not without A LOT of hard work) made a wonderful, sober life for herself.
I don't think I've ever read a better book on the subject of drug and alcohol addiction and recovery.
Knowing enough about addiction and recovery to know that this is an honest account only made it that much better for me.
After reading A Million Little Pieces and knowing it was a load of crap before the "truth" came out- reading a HONEST recollection of someones addiction and subsequent recovery was refreshing.
The fact that she went from drug and alcohol addict to a lawyer and author is astounding and shows us that anything is possible.
I'd recommend this to ANYONE who enjoys memoirs and/or books on addiction recovery.
I read this a long time ago ...( I still own it) It was a hard book to put down. Are they really making a movie?Yikes!
This book started out as a great read. I loved her stories of life in foster care and on the street. About halfway through the book it became redundant. Towards the end it picks up again and became more interesting. Part of the problem is her grammar. She tries to use street talk and then transform into more educated prose, but she doesn't do a very good job. The story of her amazing life is hidden behind poor writing.
This is a raw account of Cupcake Brown and her real life of drugs, sex and redemption and how yuou can turn it all around if you just believe in yourself. Not for the faint of heart or those who believe that life is all cupcakes and puppy dogs. I love the way she uncovered the raw truth of how the world, foster system and sometimes even your own flesh and blood can be real ugly. A definite favorite. Visit her website for more info, just Google her name.
Hmmm, well, I really don't know how to describe Cupcake Brown's A Piece of Cake: A Memoir.
No one writes just to write - there is a mission and I think part of Brown's mission was to provide a story so unbelievable, so hurtful, so shocking that you'd feel sympathy for her.
Anyway, back to the reasons why I don't like A Piece of Cake.
Additionally, I found the book a bit boring and I think Brown could have shortened it a lot!
Not the story of a drug addicted young woman who rises to a position of prestige through hard work and determination.
Cupcake Brown (that's her real name) was 11 in 1976 when her mother died.
Custody of Brown and her brother was given to a stranger—their birth father—who only wanted their social security checks.
He then left them with an abusive foster mother who encouraged her nephew to rape Brown repeatedly.
Brown got better and better at running away.
A prostitute taught her to drink, smoke marijuana and charge for sex.
Her next foster father traded her LSD and cocaine for oral sex.
A boyfriend taught her to freebase, but then there was crack, which was easier.
Wow........ just wow! Well done cupcake brown, I was hooked from the first couple of pages (excuse my pun) the way everything was described I felt I was there! One of the best books ive read, a huge 5*s .... a huge hug and thumbs up to the author cupcake Brown☺☺
At a certain point in this memoir, I just had to question the unbelieveable events of Cupcake Brown's life.
It can't possible be true, can it?But for Cupcake Brown, she's lived every moment of it.There are two things that I truly appreciate about this memoir: it gives a very detailed view of addiction, particularly to crack cocaine and addiction generally, and it makes it clear that care and protection of children is a paramount task for any society that even dreams of calling itself civilized.
The memoir would have been even better, if it had been slightly shorter, particularly around Brown's partying.
I see a lot of people complaining about the writing of this book, and, ok, it takes some getting used to.
The sentence structuring is weird, and in places there are cliches and over the top dramatic sentences, but, that's how people talk.
I would be really easy for me, a white, middle class woman with a perfectly nice upbringing, to feel alienated by the world depicted in this book, but the inclusive tone kept me hooked.Cupcake's story is amazing, dark, inspiring - but, more than that, it is full of personal detail and thought.
This book is good but very hard to read!
It's about Cupcake Brown's life after she was thrown into the foster care system back when there was zero regard for the best interest regarding placements.
When I met with my teenage client the other day, I was thinking about Cupcake's experiences.
Nonetheless, it is super good to read for the sheer fact that we should know what effects our work has on the kids we serve (though I hope that most of them do not suffer so much!) You can borrow it when I'm done!
I never got to read it because each successive copy would either 'come up missing' (taken without permission and never returned) or I would lend it to one of my group home kids in an attempt to get them to read.
I know that my group home kids loved the book because it spoke to their own experiences in foster care and the juvenile justice system.
The middle section, when Cupcake is working as a paralegal as a cover for her addiction, tends to be repetitive but I think gives a lived-in experience of an addict's insane behaviors and bizarre expectations.
I'm only about 100 pages in, and I find myself doubting almost every word this woman is saying.
To start, the fact that her biological dad was able to step in after her mother died, after never having seen the kids ever before in their lives, when they were both under shared custody with their step-father, doesn't make any sense.
Second, the fact that EVERY SINGLE foster home was as abusive as she claims, is downright naive.
Couldn't stand to read one more page of the terrible, poor excuse of "writing." Disappointed.
I read this years ago and suddenly just thought of it today.Cupcake Brown's story is a powerful one and a very honest one.
I think where the story fell short for me is her recording her drug use.
It became almost monotonous (as drug use can be!) with highs, scores and lows.
Withdrawals, scores, highs, it was all terribly cyclical and nearly drove me up the wall.But I enjoyed her writing style and found it a readable book, even though I read it in a time before I really started to enjoy memoirs.
When someone recommended it, it sounded interesting enough, the story of a girl's descent into drugs and prostitution.
It was 300 hundred pages of repetition of her doing drugs, telling herself she wasn't an addict, doing a few "business arrangements" when she needed the money.
Just when I thought her life couldn't get any worse and that she hit rock bottom, I turned the page and found out I was wrong.
The story quality, if it's even all true, which I sincerely doubt given her heavy drug and alcohol abuse, doesn't make up for the poor writing.
Honestly, I had no idea what this book was about when I read it.
This book is an autobiography.
It walks the reader through the author's journey through abuse and addiction and her struggle with her higher power.
It's a testament to how one can achieve and exceed their wildest dreams with the help of a sound support system and their relationship with their higher power.
It's informative and inspirational!
As a counselor who works with mothers in recovery I felt the need to buy a copy for my clients to borrow because I know many of them can relate and/or find some inspiration from this memoir.
I rated this book a 1 star because at the time I was very upset that a woman named cupcake brown who smoked crack and did ampehetamines on her lunch break had mulitple jobs as a legal secretary.
I've probably read this book three or four times over the past several years; my copy is now well worn and probably needs replacing.
The market is saturated with memoirs and autobiographies of this kind; people who were abused or neglected as a child who struggle through life until they find emotional peace.
Ms Brown "did not have the best start in life" is an understatement.
It is truly shocking how one girl can take so much abuse.
Often I re read a paragraph because I was sure I had misread because it was just too shocking.
The book spent to much time taking me through every bad experience in her life.
The book is 465pgs.
Half way thorugh I just wanted her to hit rock bottom, wake up in a gutter somewhere then get it together.
It kind of reminds me about "A Million Little Peices" After a while I just wanted it to end.
Because I can not relate to this life style, I don't even know anyone with a drug problem, or even drinks to much, that after a while the story just become annoying.
I believe my love for reading is deeper than most people's.
I have always read to escape, to take break from my problems for a while and climb inside someone else mind and gain a different perspective and every time I do this I come away with something new.
But A Piece of Cake has given me more than I could have ever expected.
This book is for any person who has ever doubted whether they have the ability to change themselves for the better.
For the people that have every reason to give up but do not.
Cupcake Brown's A Piece of Cake has forever changed me.
One of the books chosen for The Reader's Den. I think its typical for this genre of memoir. Cupcake Brown obviously went through a lot in her life, but it just seemed repetitive and her voice was almost praising what her lifestyle was like.
probably the most engrossing, vivid and even, at times, humorous account of drug addiction i've read. brown really has both a special voice and a unique perspective that elevated this book above and beyond other addiction memoirs.
I'm glad I read it all the way through and it does seem like a book with overall good reviews (It is a New York Times Bestseller), but I did have several problems with it.Things that went wrong that hurt the quality of the story:1) The author glorified her experiences turning them into war stories rather than just explaining what happened.
I read it as if the author was telling a story (since she did make present day references such as "Little did I know, the next few years...") and I think that made it more frustrating because I felt like the author learned nothing from her experiences.
I just really, really did not enjoy reading this book.The story takes so excruciatingly long to unfold, in part because every little incident and detail gets spelled out explicitly, and in part because Brown's writing style is extremely repetitive.
And so many of the stories just feel like repetitions of previous stories, which is probably an accurate depiction of what life is like when you're an addict, but it's a slog to read through.A symptom of Brown's every-little-detail way of writing is the lists.
