https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107783.The_Lion_s_Lady
It was so well written and touching that it left me feeling that Black Eagle and Merry were well deserving of their own story.Christina is one of the funniest of Garwood's characters I've read and Lyon the most determined.
To show her he'd meant exactly what he said, he took hold of her hand and started pulling her out the front doorway.Aunt Harriet cut them off at the bottom step.Christina had the good grace to look contrite.
Lyon looked exasperated.Aunt Harriet didn't budge from her posistion.
Both Lyon and his aunt looked at her.
"Glad to have you on staff.""Thank you, my lord," Elbert returned.Lyon notice Brown standing in the open doorway then.
"Good afternoon, my lord," Brown called out.
"Divorced.""Cast out, my lord, pushed aside, forgotten, dead in her heart--""I get you meaning Elbert," Lyon muttered in exasperation.
"What is the significance of the shoes?""They signify your departure, my lord," Brown said.The butler tried not to stare at the incredulous look on his master's face.
"Did she cut her hair?" he called out."She did," Elbert shouted before Brown could open his mouth.
There is some family and friend drama, a little suspense, some sexy times, and some laugh-out-loud moments...and they get a HEA ending.POV: This alternated between focusing mainly on Christina and Lyon in third person narrative.Overall Pace of Story:  Good.
They have some good tension, chemistry, and scenes -- but not so much it takes away from the story.Descriptive sex: YesOW/OM drama: Yes (view spoiler)[ There is an OW that the H had an affair with that comes around and causes some (mild) drama for the h.
She intends to go back to her Dakota family as soon as her task in England is completed, and she knows that won't happen if she falls in love with Lyon.
Will Lyon be able to protect her if he doesn't know what's happening?I really enjoyed this read, especially the way Ms. Garwood chose to reveal what Christine's reason for returning to England was.
As the book ends, she's happily settled and reproducing with Lyon in England, and there's no mention of her ever visiting her NA family again.
This book was fun! I had a blast with the banter between Christina and Lyon. Its not one of my favorites by Julie Garwood but it was a good book overall.
I forgot how funny this story was...Julie Garwood was one of the first romance authors I read as a teenager and her historical romances are still my favourites.
Lyon is gruff and snarly on the outside with a loving inside that he shares only with Christina.
I loved that Lyon could scream the house down in displeasure and Christina would yell right back.
Not all accents or characters were bad but the worst ones were Lyon's and Christina's which alas were the most used.Even though the narrator wasn't my favourite, listening to The Lion's Lady was a lot of fun.
Totally loved this story. Loved the prologue. Laughed a lot. My only complaint was Christina's patience with her aunt. But I loved her and Lyon. Wished they had gone to visit her family though. Minor OW drama. Former paramour tried to warn her off. Christina gave her ALOT more tan she was expecting! It was hilarious!
ADORED this one even more then The Bride! Perfect hero and heroine! I loved how enchanted by her he was from the very beginning! And her wild spirit and sassiness were fantastic! They really brought to surface his OTT alpha protectiveness -even though she could defend herself better than anyone - and possessiveness, as well as love and caring! Completely swoon worthy! Lyon and his Lioness really were PERFECT
(Always a plus!)Surprisingly, my least favorite voice was Christina’s, the heroine’s, making her sound – I thought at first – a bit too young.
Nevertheless, it is equally a good mystery, with the right amount of suspense for a Historical Romance novel.
All in all a GoodRead – or listen!---*Crazy Horse was NOT depicted in this novel; however, he was from the Dakota area, which is where Christina was raised.
I thought her knife, which played such a major role in the story, could have looked like this one.From Wiki: Crazy Horse, literally “His-Horse-Is-Crazy” or “His-Horse-Is-Spirited,” was a Native American war leader of the Oglala Lakota.
Loved this so very much. I've been slow on reading lately but I really enjoyed every moment I could spend in this romantic world Julie created. Her heroines just fit me and I adore the humor and the passion. Its just so exactly what I need every time.
Thoughts on my first Julie Garwood novel : This book was an enjoyable, engaging read with a great story.Lyon and Christina, both have been raised in different cultures and this led to a lot of funny moments.
Christina was raised by Native Americans, Lyon in conventional London, so this was a fresh, unconventional pair.
Lyon had a mysterious past which added an edge to his character.
The banter between Christina and Lyon was funny and sweet, they were a great couple.
Each character had preconceived notions but with time they saw things differently.
Have you ever watched a preview or read an excerpt that made you laugh so hard you wanted to read/watch the whole thing - only to be disappointed that the one funny scene that entranced you is at the very end?
I liked both main characters and the heroines native american background and tenuous grasp of the english language makes for some hilarity.
I know she needed to keep her background a secret and could not lash out at him or defend herself but the hero was a pushy jerk most of the time.
I had a hard time liking or respecting him by the end.
Solid 4 starsI wasn't sure I'd like or remain interested in this book after reading the first few pages; however, that feeling changed once the story picked up in the second chapter. I became enchanted with and enjoyed this fun and engaging book. I was captivated with and loved Christina's and Lyon's characters. Their continual banter kept me laughing and the side characters were simply wonderful. I did find some of the situations toward the end of the book bordering on the ridiculous. That being said, I still I couldn't help fall in love with this fun and endearing story.
4.5 Stars
Absolutely one of the funniest historical romances I have read, with all the language and culture differences between Christina, raised among the Dakota tribe, and Lyon, raised to become a wealthy English Marquess.
Scene 1, under attack: "Christina had to run to keep up with Lyon.
And many more chuckle-worthy scenes.
Scene 2, departing the reception for the wedding night:Aunt Harriott looked at Lyon.
Both Lyon and his aunt looked at her.
"She means me, Christina," Lyon said dryly.Content: At least three explicit sex scenes.
Mild violence with a fight scene, but old diary and old war records describe grizzly murder scenes.
Perhaps she should try to swoon after all, Christina considered.
No, the settee was already taken, and the floor didn't look all that appealing.
It was the best she could do to look upset." The first book in the Crown's Spies series.
Julie Garwood writes some of the best heroes in the business in my humble opinion.
Lyon, Marquess of Lyonwood, has met his match in Christina, the mysterious princess.
Christina is a wonderful heroine.
Lyon has decided to discover all the secrets of the beautiful princess.
Lyon is my favorite type of hero.
This was a great light, feel-good listen.
Great for when you just want something to put a smile on your face (like most Julie Garwood's).
The narrator, Susan Duerden really brings the story alive.
The increasingly ridiculous lies the heroine tells the hero to hide her true identity are pretty funny.
The heroine was a white girl raised by Dakota Indians who has taken her place in the Ton to try and fulfill her deceased mother's wishes and bring justice to her evil father.
Likely quite light on historical/cultural accuracy, but entertaining all the same.
AMAZING! I loved this one. I was laughing out loud at so many moments and then going aww the next! I found the heroine to be so feisty and refreshing! She was just amazing!The poor hero didn't stand a chance in front of her. She befuddled him at each turn. There are so many favourite moments from this one. I will definitely re-read this.
4.5 starsAfter reading several books recently about troubled marriages, finally, a very sweet, happy and funny story - Julie Garwood always delivers:) The Lion's Lady is the first in the Crown's Spies series, but I read the third one first, The Gift, which I also loved.
Christina and Lyon are a great couple - love or attraction at first sight.
There is a lot more emphasis on Christina's past than Lyon's, which is actually good.
(view spoiler)[ Lyon's biggest problem is that he's been burned before and doesn't want to fall in love or get married.
The story opens with the Dakota Indians and Christina's advent into their lives - when I read the first couple of pages, I was pretty sceptical that I would enjoy the book.
My main hurdle to 'believability' was that the h had lovely soft white skin despite having been raised by Indians in Dakota for the first 16 years of her life.
And a very gullible and accepting English ton (c'mon, she'd been living as an indian only 2 years prior!).
Despite my critique on believability - I loved the story - none of those factors affected my enjoyment.
DNF.
I just found the plot and the characters silly, contrived and dated.
I could tell this was a romance novel written in the 1980s.
The hero is extra Alpha-y with an especially dated "all women are liars and I know this because of my experience with my ex-wife" type of mindset.
The side plot with the heroine's mother and father is also pretty unbelievable, tbh.
It's just poorly written and executed.So, yeah.
I DNF'd this book after about 150 pages and skimmed to the end.
I really wanted to like this book, but it's not my cup of tea, sadly.
My Fav!!!
This book gets better each time I read it.
I just have one word: LOVE.12/10 - I forget how much I enjoy Garwood's regency titles, especially The Lion's Lady.
But Christina is the exception.
Though he starts out quite jaded and cynical, it isn't long before he realizes what a gem Christina is.
I especially love that he totally "gets" her.
She kept thinking he wanted only the "civilized" version of herself, but he proves time and again that he loves all of her..even her wild, savage side.
Especially her wild, savage side.
Bayıldımmm cidden bu kitaba bayıldım :)))Julie okumayı çok özlemişim bunu hatırladım okurken :) Lyon ve Christina çok ilginç bir çiftti.
Özellikle kızımızın her tür yalanina rağmen ona inanan ve sinsi sinsi merakina yenik dusuverip aşık olan Lyon karakterini çok sevdim.
Evet kızımız oldukça farklıydı ve su kelimeleri "kelime" olarak anlama huyu bile çok iyi islenmisti.
Belirli sayfalarda bildiginiz kahkaha attım.
Misal "çalıları yiyen sarışın " sahnesi hahaha:))Neyse efendim kısacası çok beğendim ve öneririm.
Şu Dakota'lılara da ayrı bir hayran oldum.
Ilk sayfalardaki küçük disi aslan sayfaları oldukça iyiydi.
Kara kurdun, Lyon ile karşılaşmasını istedim evet kabul ediyorum :P
Ya Christina çok tatlıydı yaaaaaaaaaa <3 Aşırı sempatikti. Sonu da çok güzeldi, özellikle buldukları isimler konusu :D Lyon da çok tatlıydı bence. Bu kadının karakterlerini bu kadar güzel işlemesine bayılıyorum ya. Şu güne kadar okuduğum hiçbir Julie Garwood kitabında baş karakterlere sinir olmadım. Öyle güzel karakterler yaratıyor ki sevmemek mümkün değil. Bu kadının kitapları da benim için kenarda bekletip bir şey okumakta zorlandığım zamanlarda okuduğum kitaplardan. Çünkü öyle tak tak okuyup harcamaya gelmez ne de olsa yayınevi Epsilon. :D
Mysterious Christina Bennet, (or Princess Christina as the nobility call her), gives all the appearance of all that’s proper and wanted in London society.
Given that background of true nobility, she is able to eschew the machinations of not only society- but her own relatives who will stop at nothing to get what they want from her.The marquis of Lyonwood takes one look at Princess Christina and decides he wants to find out what the beauty is all about.
A Lyon and Lioness-they are each other’s destiny.This novel from the romance novel glory days of the late 80’s starts off with a prologue defining the heroine as unique from page one.
I don't usually like Julie Garwood books but she is really popular and I have read The Secret and enjoyed it enough that I'm eager to give her a chance.
On the contrary, I have already read the second book in this series Guardian Angel and I didn't finished it because the heroine is so irritating.
Still, I couldn't forget that in fact Lyon and Christina don't know each other before they get married.
(hide spoiler)]Reading this book was quite entertaining and I liked it a bit more than the other historical romances by Julie Garwood.
4 1/2 stars!Fabulous and funny read by the incomparable Julie Garwood! This book was the exact book I needed to read at this time. Good humor is so hard to write well, and Garwood truly has the gift of wit!I loved both the hero AND the heroine and highly recommend this book!
I am not a prologue person, All I want to do is be done with it so I can get on with the story, You see I am a very eager reader.
But this is the first ever book whose prologue captured me so much that I re-read it before going on with the story.
And I am very disappointed that I didn't get to read more of them in the Book, I really really wanted to read about Lyon's meeting with the Indians and Christiana's reunion with her family,since I am feeling very sad that all these things didnt happen I could not give it 5 stars.
3.5
