https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2153405.Still_Alice
I felt Alice's frustration at forgetting words and people and most of all being shut out because she was stigmatized with this disease as though she were already dead.Because the narration is told through Alice, there are a few plot points that get lost, but I think we gain more than we lose from her perspective.
(hide spoiler)]Even though the story is told through Alice's unreliable eyes, I felt for each of the characters in her family as well.
Is my identity something that transcends neurons, proteins, and defective molecules of DNA? Is my soul and spirit immune to the ravages of Alzheimer's? I believe it is. I read this book for three reasons. 1) I have never read a book about Alzheimer's disease, 2) For personal reasons, I have an interest in Alzheimer's, and 3) It has an incredibly high average rating on goodreads. That being said, I have to confess that I didn't really go into this expecting to like it. I picked it up from the li
It's about an intelligent woman suddenly finding that she can no longer rely on her mind, she tries every day to hold onto her memories, her sense of understanding, and we are taken on a terrifying journey into what it must be like to know you are slowly losing pieces of yourself day by day.
We all forget small things every day, that's just a fact and it happens to everyone, but what if one day those forgotten memories don't come back straight away?
I give this book 5 stars not because its an amazing piece of literature but because of its impact on me.
It is the story of Alice, a brilliant professor of cognitive psychology at Harvard and a world-renowned expert in linguistics who discovers she has early onset Alzheimer's disease.
This book is beautiful and terrifying - ringing true in every word.
To quote a reviewer, "with a master storyteller's easy eloquence, Genova shines a searing spotlight on this Alice's surreal wonderland.
You owe it to yourself and your loved ones to read this book.
I spent the last hour trying to convince my family to put aside the trashy entertaining movies they usually watch and watch the movie adaptation of this one instead (as if they’ll ever read the book LOL).
But as soon as I mentioned ‘‘Alzheimer,’’ they started to lose interest.
It’s about so much more – family, love, what it means to live a meaningful life, the pieces that hold us together.
I learned so much from this book and enjoyed it thoroughly, and you guys know how rarely I read adult fiction.
Hope to break that cycle soon.
Perhaps it was the progress through a disease that strikes at random and about which we know almost nothing from the sufferer's point of view?Lisa Genova self-published the book and it has reached the rank of 150 in 'books' on Amazon.
But when a self-published book attracts 190 reviews and a 5 star rating, I know that the book is definitely worth considering, not just for my own reading pleasure but also to order for my bookshop.
No one understands the high stakes associated with making a book recommendation like a serious reader, especially when it's to a good friend, co-worker, or family member.
It changed my life!" It's also why I try to avoid talking to strangers in bookstores who want to unload all their favorites on me without knowing a thing about me.
I'm not knocking them, I just know what I like...and it's not that!This summer when I was shopping for books at a local thrift store, a woman shoved Still Alice into my overflowing shopping cart.
“Still Alice” has a wonderful premise: let’s tell the story of Alzheimer’s from the patient’s point of view, but somehow the book sounds like a professor telling you the Alzheimer’s story from a patient’s point of view, rather than having the patient tell her own story.
I never totally felt connected with Alice as a real person.I thought that the supporting cast around Alice could have been better developed, but her children were fairly one dimensional people and her conversations with them were about one subject only given that the children had only one thing that defined each of them (i.e., having a baby, auditioning for a play).
This was a very powerful book! I had never really intended to read this, but after watching the movie recently, I couldn't resist. I would definitely recommend both the book and the movie, but read the book first if you don't want to spoil the experience for yourself. The way it's written really adds a lot of feeling to the story.
This book is one that I still think about to this day. It’s so real and scary at the same time. I cried reading so many parts of this book and it left a profound impact on me and my thoughts as I get older of how external fears are not as great as the fear of losing our minds. I recommend this book.
“... just because [butterflies'] lives were short didn't mean they were tragic... See, they have a beautiful life.” ― Lisa Genova, Still Alice Strong message. Made me cry and think about the lifeI would definitely recommend. Just GO read this book.
It seems I'm behind the eight ball again, having only just read my first novel by this outstandingly talented author.
What an inspiring, emotional and ultimately rewarding read, on a topic that is real and wretched and terribly sad.
If a reader was to have personal experience with this topic, I would understand their having doubts with this one, but I think it actually may be a wise choice?I loved Alice, I adore a book where I can say that about the central character.
I'm a happy reader right now, please read this one, it's so good!
Really, at the end of the day, there is nothing you can do, it is a disease which is out of your control, in the end, unfortunately you just have to accept and hope that someday, with research, a cure will be found.It was upsetting to read about the slow digression of Alice's state of mind both in connection with her work and her family and friends.
Initially I thought that Genova should have allowed John, Alice's husband, a voice in the book, allowed him to give his side of the story, tell us how the disease affected him and share his thoughts with us as he made this journey with Alice.
Alice tried to leave herself reminders and notes, and I suspect I would do the same, but as you lose your memory, you may not trust your former self or even recognise that person, so perhaps it’s pointless.Alice Howland is only 50, a Harvard professor of cognitive psychology and in a perfect position, one would think, to chronicle how she will deal with her diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer’s.
She has opted out of university, much to Alice’s dismay, and studies acting and drama, supported not-so-secretly by Dad. He may be a scientist, but he appreciates The Arts (and her independence).She gets lost one day, very early in the story, just walking as usual when a woman confronts her with a pamphlet, which unnerves her so she crosses the street.
My mother was every bit as intelligent and involved in things as Alice.
Yet she never had the insight that Alice did about what was wrong with her.As I said, each case is different, but I felt that the author gave Alice too much insight and self-awareness, especially when the disease was pretty far advanced.
Granted, Alice couldn't express her articulate thoughts in words to her family, but I had a hard time believing someone as far gone as she was would have such insightful, articulate thoughts at all.Still, I found the last 1/3 of the book to be interesting and affecting.
I especially liked the way the Alice's answers to her self quiz deteriorated without her being aware of it.
Fifty year old Alice Howland, a world-renowned expert in linguistics and a cognitive psychology professor at Harvard is diagnosed with early-onset Alzheimer's disease.
Still Alice is the story of the unraveling of Alice's life as her disease progresses.I started out not enjoying this book.
Alice's relationships with her family and their varying responses to Alice's decline are extremely believable, and the most touching parts of the book are the evolution of Alice's relationships with her husband and children as her disease progresses.
Still Alice is a fantastic book that provides an incredible window into the progression of Alzheimer's disease and is both terrifying and heart-rending.
2018 UPDATE: I just watched the film and it was amazing :)The stereotype of Alzheimer's is usually something like this:Of course, what a lot of people don't realize is how early in life Alzheimer's can appear, and how many people it affects around the world, from famous fiction author Terry Pratchett, to our neighbors, our family members, even in some cases ourselves.
Still Alice gives a fictional face to these people everywhere by sharing the same story that so many people are dealing with right now.
The book is fairly breezy, refusing to delve much past the expected feelings of frustration, loneliness, and confusion that accompanies Alzheimer’s, and it often times felt rather clinical and pamphlet-y.
It strikes the reader as remaining fairly true to the experiences of someone beginning to lose the required synapses necessary to retain memory and cognitive function—my second grader would call this “realistic fiction”—and as of its publication, it is in fact the only novel ever to have been endorsed by the Alzheimer’s Association.And what I’m saying here is that I guess I am endorsing it a little bit, too.
Yet, this book brought a few.Maybe the old tear ducts need a good cleaning once in a while.
It's probably healthy.Next time, this is how I'll clean them.Anyway, read this one if you want to cry.
Or, if you want to get really scared, because truthfully, all of the early signs of Alzheimer's are there for most of us.Forgetting words and using "thingy" in place?
CheckForgetting what I was looking for or why I came in that room?
Unless you really need to clean those tear ducts, or you know someone going through this and want understanding, you should probably stay away.
I couldn't put this book down. And, I agree with other reviews of this book that it was heartbreaking. But, I saw something else in this story. Pain and heartache and change comes into everyone's life in some form and not everything that comes from that is bad. Genova does a good job of showing the devastation in Alzheimers but also the beauty in redefined relationships.
There are an estimated five hundred thousand people in the United States with early-onset Alzheimer’s disease (as at 2007 when this book was first published). Early-onset is defined as Alzheimer’s under the age of sixty-five. Symptoms can develop in the thirties and forties. Having worked in the pharmaceutical industry, I’ve always been interested in disease, genetics, clinical trials and finally being able to see, after so many years of research and many failures included, a medicinal product
I cannot fault it in any respect.But where can one possibly begin with this incredible book?Imagine that you are a fifty year old, apparently healthy and have had a successful twenty-five year career in psycholinguistics and are the “eminent William James” Professor of Psychology at Harvard University; a happily married woman called Alice (Ali to her husband John, a scientist) and three children who on the whole she was very proud of – Anna, Tom and Lydia.
Is he worried that his wife Alice’s early-onset Alzheimer’s at the age of fifty makes their future look rather grim?
What a great heartfelt book. Takes you into the world of dementia and the frustrating lives of those with Alzheimer's, and at the same time, keeps you interested in the characters and plot unable to put the book down.Update: June 12, 2015 Finally watched the movie......thought book was so much better!
Intensely readable, relatable, and devastating. I read this when my children were still so little and I distinctly remember rushing off to the other room every chance I got to read a page here and a page there. Thus began my love for Lisa Genova. 5 stars
Alice Howland is a fifty years old and is a psychology professor at Harvard University.
After numerous questions and tests Alice is diagnosed with early onset Alzheimer's disease.
This is not only hard for Alice, but also for her loved ones as they try to cope from one day to the next.This is a very moving story which touched me very deeply.
I have dealt with this debilitating disease quite a lot over the last few years and truly it is hard on everyone involved.
This novel paints a portrait of how heartbreaking the disease of early onset Alzheimer's can be.
A beautifully written and heartbreaking story of a cognitive psychology professor who is diagnosed with early on-set Alzheimer's disease (at age 50).
I have recently watched the film and I think Julianne Moore did a brilliant job portraying Alice (she won an Oscar for it, rightfully so).
I also felt the movie stayed faithful to the novel.
I recommend reading "Still Alice" and then viewing the film afterwards.
The novel is full of emotion.
I loved the way Lisa Genova described a delicate and yet honest account of a woman who loses everything she has worked for to a cruel disease.
Not because its a bad book, no, because its terrifyingly accurate.I worked for many years in a nursing home, specifically in the dementia ward.
It was hard to work with these wonderful, beautiful people, and to see their minds ravaged by this horrible, insidious disease.
I needed the buffer of time between my experiences and the heartbreaking story within these pages.I think this is an important book that everyone should read.
Many people think dementia is just old age; being a bit forgetful, something that happens with the progression of time.
This book was very unsettling but I think it's a book everyone should read.
I liked how it was written from the perspective of Alice.
I think seeing her experience her memory loss through her eyes made it feel more realistic and left a stronger impact.
Even though it was difficult to get through some parts, I like how she takes a gentle approach to the difficult topics.
She enlightens the reader on the subject matter but also does an amazing job of expressing her characters’ most candid thoughts and feelings.
I mostly listened to the audiobook but recommend reading this one instead because of all the dialogue.
I am sobbed out, hollowed out.My beloved Nanna was only diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease in the last year or so and thus, the reading of this novel took on an even more personal meaning for me.Lisa Genova's expert and exquisite depiction of Alzheimer's disease (in Alice Howland's case - early onset) is riveting, enthralling, and breathtakingly tragic.
*sob* My favourite quote from this immensely emotional story..."My yesterdays are disappearing, and my tomorrows are uncertain, so what do I live for?
But just because I'll forget it some tomorrow, doesn't mean that I didn't live every second of it today.
I will forget today but that doesn't mean today doesn't matter"It breaks my heart to want to call this book "unforgettable"...*sob*
اما همیشه برایم سوال بود که آیا فرد مبتلا به آلزایمر فراموش کردن را به یاد می آورد؟ می تواند جای خالی خاطرات را احساس کند؟ آلیس در ابتدا نوعی احساس گمگشتگی دارد اما در نهایت همان احساس را هم از دست می دهد.
واقعاً بلد نبود؟ دو سه سال بود که خورش نپخته بود، بعد ناگهان برای یکی از نوه های تازه داماد شده و عروسش، قیمه پخت به چه خوشمزگی!
اگر چیزی را به یادش می آوردیم یا سعی می کردیم کمکش کنیم، می گفت مگر من بچه ی دو ساله ام؟ خودش آشپزی نمی کرد و به هیچ کس دیگری هم اجازه نمی داد غذا بپزد.
I think Lisa Genova does a wonderful job of portraying what Alzheimer's Disease would be like and how a person with Alzheimer's is still a person with wants, likes and dislikes.
In the Q & A with Lisa Genova at the end of the book, I noticed that Lisa states Oliver Sacks is her inspiration (I love his writing as well).
She also states a quote by him  "In examining disease, we gain wisdom about anatomy and physiology and biology.
In examining the person with disease, we gain wisdom about life"  and this is what she was hoping to achieve in her writing.
ایشان به مرور زمان درمییابند که مسائل ساده را به آسانی فراموش میکند، و مبحثی را که باید در کلاس درس دهد یادش میرود.
نخست موضوع را چندان جدی نمی‌گیرد، اما با افزون شدن دشواری پیش پزشک میرود و پس از انجام آزمایشات، درمییابد که به نوعی بیماری آلزایمر بسیار ویژه مبتلاست.
