https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/216361.The_World_Jones_Made
However, Cussick is in a tight spot – following the nuclear war caused in large measure by Mohammedans and Christian fanatics, Fedgov, the ruling power, has taken on the character of totalitarianism with its many forced labor camps, prisons and detention centers.
Oh, yes, in the new world order Jones proposes, since he can see into the future, he himself will hold sole authority and power as absolute ruler.
Nina is bored with the lackluster, dull, dreary world of Fedgov; she years for excitement and change, thus she turns to the Jones movement.
Bradburyesque PKD, this is dark, brooding and humanistic; reminiscent of Messiah by Gore Vidal and also, vaguely, of H.P. Lovecraft.
The reader sees erudite observations of social, political and theological dynamics in a dystopian, totalitarian society, themes that would later characterize his work, as well as common PKD elements such as secret or above the law police systems, paranoia, drug use and isolation.
Like his later masterpiece Dr. Bloodmoney he describes a sentient fetus, and explores situations unique to this imaginative vehicle.
And this is after all PKD, resplendent with his signature imagination, the reader will enjoy the scenes with the pornographic mutant hermaphrodites.
The World Jones Made is like four different stories stitched together by a plot that serves little purpose other than to stitch those four stories together.
Jones can see the future and this is the second and best part of the story.
In both his birth and his death, Jones experiences existence and non-existence simultaneously.
Relativism will not allow a defensive response because, of course, who’s to say if the drifters are good or evil?
For Jones and his people, however, an absolutist response is possible.
If Jones is the Messiah, then the drifters are evil.
Dick, The World Jones Made"He was a man with his eyes in the present and his body in the past."― Philip K.
Dick, The World Jones MadeAn early (1956) PKD novel that brings together four semi-united threads: mutants, aliens, precognition, and a philosophic tyranny (a form of relativism to the absurd).
The spore-like aliens that suddenly appear are the catalyst between Jones and the philosociety he lives in.
It wasn't as funky or messy as some and not nearly as brilliant as others, but the seeds and spores of future great novels were beginning to disperse and look for another PKD book another mind to infect and control.
(Today, that 35-cent paperback is likely to fetch 70 times its original price.) Dick's follow-up novel came the next year, and that novel, "The World Jones Made," also initially appeared as an Ace double (D-150), paired with Margaret St. Clair's "Agent of the Unknown." Dick's second full-length work finds the future Hugo winner already displaying many of the strengths and obsessions that would become the hallmarks of his glorious writing career.
(Dick was one of the few sci-fi authors who largely refrained from churning out sequels.) A more in-depth examination of the Jones character would certainly have been nice, and some of the personages in the book (such as Tyler Fleming, a remarkably capable, 17-year-old Fedgov employee) just kind of peter out.
Sure, there are gadgets and phenomenon, but it is the uses and implications of these things that Dick places in the forefront of his fiction.In this book, Jones is a man who can see one year into the future.
What caught my attention is that Dick takes the time to help us understand what this seeing into the future is really like.
Jones sees one year ahead, which means that his present is already known to him, and so, nothing is a surprise.
His power makes him God-like and unstoppable, but at the same time he is a prisoner to time.Jones bases his meteoric rise and eventual toppling of the government on the Drifters, strange single cellular quasi-living “ships” that have mysteriously begun falling to Earth and the other planets in increasing numbers.
(Of course, at the time Dick didn't know that the harsh, intolerable Venusian landscape he depicted at the time looks like a paradise compared to the nightmarish hellhole that Venus actually is.)On the whole, while perhaps a bit more slow-paced, The World Jones Made is a thoughtful and intriguing book, better written and plotted than Solar Lottery.
Still, at times it seems as if Dick cobbled together several disparate ideas at the short story level, namely: (1) the colonization of Venus; (2) a charismatic leader who can foretell what will happen a year from the present; and (3) an invasion of our solar system by spores resembling giant protozoa.The hero is a police officer named Cussick who marries a Danish blonde named Nina.
The two drift apart, with Cussick loyal to Fedgov's security forces, and Nina entranced by the charismatic Jones.
Eventually, Jones and his followers win; but what happens is a surprise.The World Jones made is not one of Dick's best works, but it is interesting enough to keep the reader guessing.
El Fedgov deberá golpear la mesa para evitar que este debilitado mundo colapse y sean en vano sus esfuerzos de reconstrucción.Así parte la historia, no voy a dar más detalles del argumento posterior (lo dejo para mis apuntes o se conversan por interno) pero el giro es demencial y fascinante (en particular la verdadera naturaleza de los drifters y el destino de Jones).
Por último, la relación entre Nina y Dough, otros personajes principales, me parece que raya con la esquizofrenia e incluso no me resultan convincentes: sus roles son casi instrumentales al devenir de la historia.Pero fuera de las críticas, es una obra muy entretenida, es una recomendación de cuatro puntos con fuerza (diría incluso 4,5) y me confirmó como un fan de PKD.
This live and let live code must be enforced by an elaborate security police force, and Cussick, the central character, is on the force.Jones threatens this world because he is a prophet, able to see into the future for up to one year.
Cussick's gorgeous Scandinavian wife aligns herself with the Jones movement and becomes a senior officer in the organization.
The characters, other than Jones, are exhausted and justifiably pessimistic, caught up in defending a world order they know is doomed and which they no longer really believe in.
Dystopia set on Earth in 2002. Easy read, lots of ideas - transhumanism with precognition, relativism, mobility, public drug and sex consumption, hermaphroditic sex, mutants ready for Venus, Venusian environment, alien blobs. Also references to Hitler and Mengele, no wonder 10 years after WWII. On the negative side lots of sloppiness quite typical for PKD, missing protagonist motivations, unbelievable biological models.I wouldn't consider it as one of his better works, maybe only for completionists who want to read an early PKD with less formed style but same intensity.
I'm just going to come out and say this: legendary science fiction author or not, this novel is an awful, incoherent mess.Let's see, we have post-nuclear war, dystopia, space exploration & planetary colonization, genetic engineering, mutants, precognition, revolution,... and oh yeah, aliens! And it's all pretty much tossed into a blender to make a meatball fudge ripple milkshake.For all that, it still feels like there are missing pieces, the what's and whys.
Here though, we have tons of ideas but, I thought, not enough book to hold them all!
The World Jones Made is short yet combines three strong storylines - to which other authors would probably given a book apiece.
The eponymous Jones is a fascinating character, Cassandra-like initially, but realising the satisfaction of actually being believed and venerated for his skill.
Overall though, I just wanted this book to have been at least twice its length and to delve much more deeply into the questions it raises.
I felt characters and setting were sketched rather than fully drawn so were ultimately unsatisfying.
Such grand ideas deserve a Really Big Book!
Their lives are marked by frustration and purposelessness, with them not knowing who they are and why they exist (more I can't say here without spoilers).Into this world comes Floyd Jones of the title of the book.
How can Relativism exist alongside someone who is able to see into the future and so actually know Truth?
The main character of the book, Cussick, is forced to confront this question as part of his work for the state as his life and Jones' intertwine.I've read a number of Philip K.
Only two problems: 1) the picture of Venus he has was I'm pretty sure obsolete by the mid-'50's, when he wrote this; and, a lot more significantly, 2) the notion of Jones seeing a year into the future was not quite believable.
So the whole thing was pretty much of a ruse?...but on the plus side it's well-constructed, with a rare non-predatory female character from him (Nina)--and Jones is complex and interesting too, at least until the end when he peculiarly decides to set himself up as a martyr (thus seeming to stultify all the alienation mojo he'd had building up).
This was a used paperback I read a few years ago.
A co-worker/friend is currently reading this book.
The protagonist, Jones, can see up to one year into the future.
Dick uses science fiction tropes to explore philosophical issues.
Here, PKD uses the science fiction trope of precognition to explore the issue of fate and free will.
One of the conflicts in the story is between Jones and an extra-terristrial threat.In some respects, the book is dated.
Our current state of scientific knowledge holds that Venus would be deadly for humans.But I can imagine the story updated and modified into a good science fiction movie.

Page 134: thing spelt thhingPage 194: most spelt moseIt started off alright, got better as it went onJones precognition is a massive hole: he should be having perception of perceiving a year into the future in a year, giving two year's notice.
& the whole issue of how would things work out if someone asked whether they'd say heads or tails, & then said opposite of what he said.
See also The Halting Problem.
I was hoping it'd stick to 'general future'Writing could've been tighter without losing anything.
Finally Dick surprise me again with the first book I (chronologically) hear him talking about precogs. This is a nice adventure in a possible-dystopic world where the ruler can predict the future, and thus guide everyone to the best possible future... or are we sure of it.Colonization of planets is also a reality in this world and that makes the universe in this PKD's novel really compelling and interesting.
Det gör fan ont i själen att behöva ge en stjärna till en bok av Philip K. Dick, men nu behövde jag det, tyvärr. Han har alltid haft en tendens åt att vara spretig och ofokuserad men det här var extremt till och med för honom. Finns det intressanta ideér? Ja. Det är ju ändå PKD. Men inte någon av hans bättre verk. Alldeles för långsam och med flera olika trådar som aldrig riktigt knyts ihop eller kommer till något klimax.
6/10
See, there's an alien life form called Drifters that Jones says is invading Earth and the surrounding planets and he is intent on saving Earth from the oncoming war.
I don't want to give the final plot away -- whether Jones lives or dies -- but you can imagine it'd be hard to kill someone who can see into the future and knows everything that will happen.
Still, at the climax of the book, it's Jones who has the final say and Cussick and his family escape to Venus, where they live in their own Refuge, communicating occasionally with the mutants.
The ruling philosophy, Relativism, has made right and wrong irrelevant; basically anything goes except for dreaming about the good old days or even about any different kind of days.Cussick works in security for the FedGov and comes into conflict with Jones, because the man has somewhat unintentionally become a messiah of forbidden dreaming and must be stopped.
The World Jones Made is Dick's second novel and shares some clunky attributes such as wooden characters and dialogue but lacks the excitement of Solar Lottery.
It may have been because I rushed through the first reading, but whatever the reason I needed to go through some parts of the story again to fully enjoy or understand them after knowing how it would all end.From the start, I felt something was off in this book.
Like the "Prestonites" in Solar Lottery, I felt the Venusians line wasn't well linked to the whole story, although in the end it plays an important role and the book would definitely make less sense without it.I think I kind of like other characters by PKD (I mean in other novels) because they are so miserable and helpless and kind of pathetic, and I empathise with them and the interest of the book is to know whether they will improve or not.
Dick's novels are like fever dreams.
Eventually, pieces come together, but just when you think the novel will provide a conventional climax, the story takes a hard left and you end up somewhere completely unexpected, begging more questions.
Then, just like a pesky alarm clock, you reach the last page and the story is over.
I know I haven't said anything specific about the book itself, but to me, Dick's novels are more about the style than the content.
All of Dick's books are fast-paced and frustratingly short, but I guess it's best to leave them wanting more.
Great classic 50's "pulp" SF that I picked up for $2.00.
Lots of overlapping cool SF ideas, and already some familiar Dick tropes (mildly sentient household appliances, flying driverless cars, mild precognition, young women with short, dark hair who distract the older married male protragonist), all of which occur again and again in later novels.
In the 1960s, Dick himself left his wife for a younger woman with short, dark hair (rendering us to suspect that he himself was mildly precognitive?).Anyway, a fine example of early Philip K.
Dick, and of classic era SF.
This was a really good early Philip K Dick novel.
It reminded me how much I really enjoy his books.
It was fairly straight forward, there were mutants, a man who could see a year into the future and amoeba like aliens, and a post-apocalyptic totalitarian government built along the lines that everything was valid.
Despite being quite a positive story it had some really quite depressing parts, the club where the wife did heroin and hermaphrodites had sex was pretty horrendously despair filled.
Likewise the description of the man's life who was able to see into the future felt equally hopeless.
I really must finish reading all his novels.
İyi bir bilim-kurgu okuyucusu herhangibir PKD romanına başlarken emindir ki öykü orjinal fikirlerle doludur. The World Jones Made (Türkçe'ye Yaratılan Dünya diye çevrilmiş) bu açıdan beklentileri karşılasa da metnin edebi-kurgusunun zayıf kaldığı aşikar. Bölümlerarası geçişlerde kopukluk yaşanıyor ve neden-sonuç ilişkisini satır arası boşluklardan arayıp çıkarmanız gerekiyor. Romana mesafemin asıl nedeni ise kitap kahramanları ile bağ kuramamış olmam. Okurken yerimi ne geleceği gören Jones'un ne de ajan Cussick'in yanında alabildim. Baştan itibaren sempatimi koruyabildiğim sadece küçük Venüs'lüler oldu. Keşke roman sadece onların üzerinden ilerleseydi..
Plotwise, this book sort of sucks, and is all over the place- a precog who can see vastly into the future, drifting weird aliens, yet another oppressed society- but I just sort of loved how all these loose ends roamed around together. I can't remember which oppressive society it was this time, but Dick was great at really haunting "endless blackness of Death" scenes (there is another great but brief one in Solar Lottery) and the one in this one was killer.
Not too impressed by this one. I'll write more after we record the podcast discussion for SFF Audio.
