https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36687393-stinger
Sure it's infused with a lot of 80's pop culture and lingo, (all the good looking girls are smash-foxes), but that was a special time for me, and for the horror genre, so I have no problem with that.Also, I think it's possible that STINGER has influenced a lot of authors, (it's difficult not to see a connection to King's UNDER THE DOME), whether they were conscious of it or not.
If you're looking for many hours of listening enjoyment and alien invasion action, STINGER is the book for you!*Thank you to the narrator for the free Audible edition in exchange for my honest feedback.
Most people are leaving town and the two gangs, The Rattlesnakes and the Renegades, are like vultures on Inferno's corpse.
Everything gets turned upside down the day an alien ship crashes and the alien takes over the body of a little girl.
It's a picnic, however, compared to the second alien that shows up...Stinger is the story of a dying town turned upside down by two aliens.
The story was fast-paced, especially after Stinger showed up, and reminded me of the movies The Predator and Tremors at times.
There is, however, a lot more than that lying just beneath the surface (no pun intended), and the plot was a little more layered than I had anticipated.What had sounded like an army was only one creature, but the sight of such an ungodly thing speared terror through [him].
He felt as if his insides were shrivelling.Stinger doesn’t break a lot of new ground (again, no pun intended), and you could conceivable draw comparisons with other 80s horror novels where the antagonist manifests itself in different forms, although the scientific spin McCammon introduces here does at least attempt to make some sense of what would otherwise have been a lot of metaphysical weirdness.
What can I say about this book?
- It's one of the creepiest books ever Where's the guardian?
It's the only time where I've seen 'mind hopping' done effectively - It all takes place within 24 hours and is non stop - Did I mention it's creepy as all hell??A must read for all horror fans and those who like a good alien story.
I will be reading this one again.
Dare I say, this has creeped its way into my top 5 of all time...
I'm pretty sure I read this as a teenager, but if I did, I sure don't remember it, so this book was entirely new to me.
And what a great book it was!
I'm a HUGE fan of Robert McCammon and have slowly been reading and re-reading all of his books.
By doing so I've been treated to to the birth and growth of an incredible author, and a damn fine good time.
All this in a late 80s story that still rings true today.
I LOVED this story, and if the above sounds good to you, I'll bet that you will love it too!
McCammon masterfully spins 80's horror/sc-fi tale for the ages. This one ranks right up there with the author's spectacular epic Swan Song as one of his best, most enduring works. I'm completely satisfied with this book. Read it!
This is copy 285 of 1000 signed numbered copies signed by Robert McCammon.
4.5 actually. I have not read an unentertaining book by Robert McCammon. I've read the great: Swan Song and Boy's Life, and the good: Mine and The Five, but not yet the bad. Stinger is close to being great and I can't quite put in words what it's lacking. The 80s vibe was killer and it successfully straddled the line between horror and sci-fi, with a little bit of the whole teen/angst The Outsiders thread thrown in. Maximum fun-ness.
I have to say that it appears besides "Boy's Life" I'm not destined to like any of Robert McCammon's books.
When a spacecraft crashes, the remaining members of the town are left to fight off an alien calling itself Stinger.
Stinger is after another alien that calls itself Daufin.
Ultimately I think if the book had been edited a bit more, or we stuck with very few POVs that it could have worked better for me.
I also didn't really like Daufin that much.
And McCammon has been able to make me cry due to his writing.
I think jumping between 10-15 characters is what did it.
My sample size is small yet as this is only my second McCammon, but I might prefer him to King.A small Texas town is rocked by the crash landing of an object of unknown origin.
While something a little strange is going on with a local veterinarians young daughter who interacted with the busted up remnants first, the foreign object is not anything that the nearest air force base and personal can't contain and research...that is until a follow up arrival on a much larger scale brings a less than friendly visitor with a mission - one who traps a whole town for one terrifying night.At 550 pages, I really expected to be reading this for awhile.
The town’s people are dragged into a war for their survival as the Stinger kills everyone in its path to reach Daufin.With a vast array of b-movie-esque characters fulfilling every possible cliché going, ‘Stinger’ is a non-stop sci-fi horror thrill.
This delivers the usual b-movie message of overcoming each others rivalries in order to face the common evil.The pace of the storyline takes a few chapters to get going, but once it’s underway the novel maintains a constant fast pace throughout.
With the interwoven subplots surrounding the main storyline, McCammon manages to keep a highly entertaining novel going, with action packaged chapters leaving the reader with regular cliff hangers.The novel ends with a dramatic and well managed conclusion.
By the time I was 400 pages in, it seemed action was just a little too drawn on, and I was getting to the point of, okay, can we please just wrap this up already?One thing did bother me because I am a stickler for accuracy: It seemed every time these gang members were in a battle-lust, it was after they had smoked marijuana.
Re-read remains a solid 5 stars!
One of my favourite books ever and a study in how a horror book should be made. Great characters, awesome setting, terror at every corner and excellent writing.
Robert McCammon is quite gifted at taking old ideas and infusing them with new life.
He also tends to write like he is writing with the movies in mind.
He wrote Stinger like he had a TV movie in mind.
The author does manage to write some excellent action segments and the ending moves like a runaway train ablaze.
McCammon uses every small town cliche in the book and throw in a little Romeo and Juliet too.
For an action-adventure novel it ranks a solid three stars.
Yet I really wished he had thought enough of the plot to infuse some new life into his protagonists.
4 StarsWhat a blast, that was!
It was like a B-Movie on acid.
Much better than Invasion of the Killer Tomatoes.
It had all the elements: Fat, loser sheriff; goody-two shoes family, crotchety old rich lady; town drunkard, racial tension, bullied-by-everyone-town-nerd, and gangs.
Oh, and did I mention the gloriously, disgusting monster who also happens to be a "bounty hunter!??" It doesn't get any better than this.
I really had no expectations of greatness, but this was a great horror story, and would be great on the small screen with a bunch of friends on a Friday night.
I ain't young no more, so Fridays will have to do.
An alien spaceship crashes near a small Texas border town, its occupant a bounty hunter on the trail of another alien of a different species who has recently escaped from a prison planet.
The nature of the bounty-hunter alien (nicknamed “Stinger”) is a scorpion-like, mucus producing, monster with the ability to rapidly replicate allies using spare machine parts and captured human bodies.
Awesome!Most of the novel is devoted to developing the many characters of the small town of Inferno.
That served to lengthen the novel a bit and slow down the build-up to the action sequences.A UFO/alien/horror story can be pretty standard fare but in the hands of this author, it truly shines.
I attribute this to the fact that it was written in the 80′s and not that McCammon is a bad writer, the decade just called out for cheesy rivalries like this.
Additionally the friction between Cody and is father (the drunken Curt Lockett who’s all sad about his dead wife) feels transparent and cliché right up to the inevitable redemption of the father that feels like it came right out of Independence Day (again, this predates that movie by a decade so I can forgive that).All that said, this is a book that will keep you reading and provide some entertainment.
The power within this book is 100% the characters.
McCammon gives us such string characters that we have no choice but to get wrapped up in the story.
His whole book could have been about the stuggle between the two gangs, or the relationship between Cody and Curt (son and drunk dad), or just about the Hammond family.
But what it all boils down to is he made a book crammed full of wonderful characters, a book where the only REAL bad guy is Stinger.
It's books like this that made me fall in love with reading.
Now there are a lot of McCammon fans out there and I rate Wolf's Hour and Boy's Life as superb novels....but I could not enjoy Stinger and had great trouble finishing.
I'ts basically the story of an alien invasion on a small community and the effect that this has on the day to day life of the residents.
I did quite enjoy the first 200 pages (before the baddies arrived) and found some likeable characters and looked forward to the development of the plot line...however...once the invasion happened we have the big fight of good v evil (in the form of a scorpion like stinger alien!)and this struggle went on for some 300+ pages and frankly it bored the *** of me.
What can I say? McCammon's got it as usual. It wasn't on the same level as Swan Song, Boy's Life, or Usher's Passing, but it was still a solid five star read. Excellent B-Movie style sci-fi horror premise that went on to a fun story with some heart.

One -- Daufin -- is on the run and the other -- Stinger -- is a bounty hunter looking for the criminal alien force.I know what you're thinking -- that sounds like the plot of a cheaply-made B-movie, and not a very good one at that.
However, what sets this 1988 novel apart from your run-of-the-mill alien stories is the characters McCammon creates.
If you're looking for a quick and fun summer read filled with a great cast of characters, lots of scares, and a good deal of heart, look no further.
While reader a paper book I prefer falling asleep while reading with my kindle (voyage had an inbuild light that switches off after a short while so I am reading 2 books.The Dark Son and this one.
I have been thinking of picking another ebook to read because the town he sketches, the people that he describes are all so depressing and the story began so slow.
Most were not appealing and I did not care for them so then you as a reader do not care what happens to them.I did read nearly half so It was just not my book but I will definitely read more books written by Robert McCammon
Simply put...it's books like this which are the reason I read books. I'd give it six stars if I could as it's tops most of my favorite five star books.
I was in the mood for an alien invasion story, and Stinger is that.
However, despite a prologue that seemed to set the stage for the horrors to come, nothing really happened that had anything to do with aliens until about 80 pages in.
If I were going to recommend some McCammon, I’d recommend a book like “They Thirst,” or his short story collection, “Blue World.” Both are outstanding works.
And if you’re in the mood for a kind of ET meets Alien book that builds slowly, “Stinger” might be for you.
Oh, this book was a page turner!The plot isn`t very hard to get in, but the style of the writing mixed with a good evolution of the action and, also, a nice range of characters, goes hand in hand to ensure the success of this book.Being entertaining and impressive, at some levels, it`s very easy to recommend this book.For the lovers of the 80's horrors & sci-fi movies this could be a surprise and a real treat.
Oh, this book was a page turner!The plot isn`t very hard to get in, but the style of the writing mixed with a good evolution of the action and, also, a nice range of characters, goes hand in hand to ensure the success of this book.Being entertaining and impressive, at some levels, it`s very easy to recommend this book.For the lovers of the 80's horrors & sci-fi movies this could be a surprise and a real treat.
Disclaimer: Received a copy from the narrator for review consideration.Swan Song was an amazing book, and I enjoyed every bit of the tale that Robert McCammon had to tell in it.
Luckily that changed up a bit by the end of the book.I don’t think that Stinger sucks, or anything like that.
That, combined with the sometimes unpleasant voices (perfectly fitting the story just not my ears), and the obsession with the ‘gang war’ in the beginning of the book meant that Stinger was not an audio book I was eager to keep listening to.
Very entertaining, I liked pretty much everything about this book. McCammon did a great job with the two alien races, very original.
I read Stinger about six years ago and liked it.
If you like your aliens mean, unmerciful, and horrifying, then you need to meet Stinger.
Written in 1988, the story takes place in one 24-hour period and centers on the Texas town of Inferno where one alien (the bad guy) is in hot pursuit of another alien (the good guy).
What I love most about McCammon's writing is the way he writes characters.
But what sets McCammon apart from mediocre writers is the way he writes characters.
Empathy, sympathy, anger, frustration, love, hatred, I felt all these and more for the characters in Stinger.
That's why I read Robert McCammon's stories.
