https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/218709.The_Wanderer
Tidal forces, you see.
I think it's a metaphor for the arrival of sex in modern science fiction.
But then, suddenly, tidal forces!
The lecherous general has had his eye on the hot secretary for a while, but her interests are in a different place.
Someone once told her that she had "strangler's fingers".
Well, says the secretary to the general, why don't we make sure our last moments are pleasant ones?
he asks slyly as he begins to take her clothes off.Not exactly, she replies, and her long, strong, strangler's fingers dart out and fasten around his neck.
An interesting premise, a planet-sized spacecraft appearing in near-Earth orbit, is thrown off track by frequent hopping amongst several groups of characters, mostly unrelated.
These asides do show the destruction caused by the now out-of-control tidal forces on our planet but Leiber spends too much time with some of these characters.
Not enough is made of the aliens either, leaving just the disaster as the main concern.
For more gripping planetary calamity I'd point people to Niven & Pournelle's LUCIFER'S HAMMER (or even their alien invasion potboiler, FOOTFALL)
oh wait, no that's pretty much a standard of SF.Seriously, aside from the times, which may or may not let you guys forgive the casual references to casual racism, sexism, and the oddly frank depiction of a lesbian woman deciding right before she drowns that she wants to have sex with the misogynic man as they both drown and wanting to strangle him to death before the water does the job, the novel really is a quick and fun dance around the tidal effects of the earth getting a new moon by way of HYPERSPACE.It really was pretty neat, but let's put it in context.

Overblown disaster story. Traveling planet pops out of hyperspace near the Moon, causes massive tidal disruption on earth. Novel follows way too many dispersed characters across the world, most of whom are of no consequence at all.
A planet space ship appears above Earth and eats the moon, catastrophic floods and earthquakes kill millions, all the ladies sleep with the men (in what I imagine are filthy conditions too, ew!), and one lucky guy gets sexy masturbation times with the cat-lady alien. There's a little space battle.The second half was very tedious to get through, like starting a disaster movie that should be brainless fun... until you get super irritated by the endless dumb CGI moments.I bet it was fantastic in the 60's.
The predecessor of the disaster movie, or even better, the spoof Disaster Movie. Characters of all walks survive tidal chaos when a new planet comes to visit. Fun, but Fritz steals the show with his funny observations on culture and SF.
A mysterious planet of approximately the same mass as Earth appears from hyperspace within the orbit of our moon, tearing the satellite to pieces and inflicting tremendous damage on our planet through vastly increased tidal forces.
When author Fritz Leiber keeps his focus on that basic premise, detailing the effects of the Wanderer's appearance and mankind's efforts to cope with it, this novel really flies, particularly in an early sequence wherein an astronaut barely escapes the shattering of the Moon and finds himself in orbit around the new planet.
There are far too many characters and many of them are handled in such sketchy fashion that not even Leiber seems interested in them.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 1/5Writing Style: 2/5World: 2/5This had potential. It should have been a book I liked. I'm a fan of the subgenre (view spoiler)[the big-dumb object variety (hide spoiler)]. I like hard science fiction. I enjoy seeing the sociological ramifications of whatever science fiction innovations the author has to show. Leiber did all these things, and I still found it a miserable reading experience. There characters were just awful. This was the worst use of the shifting perspec
I like hard science fiction.
Leiber did all these things, and I still found it a miserable reading experience.
Leiber had no idea what he wanted to do with the characters or what should happen to them.
To the extent that a book can be painful to read, this one was a punishing.Still, there were things I liked.
I thought the hard science fiction and problem solving was more than just okay; it was fairly good.
It was one of the few things that Leiber did right with both the characters and the writing, letting the problem-solving be character-developing and slipping it into the story smoothly.
There’s lots and lots of mass destruction and sex, although the sex is only hinted at while the mass destruction is described in excruciating detail.I almost gave up in disgust about two-hundred pages into the book when Leiber kills off one of the most interesting characters, but by then I’d invested quite a bit of time and energy in it and there were only about a hundred thirty pages to go, so I pressed on, cheating a bit by skimming through the exposition and trying to catch as much of the story as I could from the dialog, until I came to the part where one of the main characters speaks to another character via hologram, which he explains away as “actually an advanced method of communication; incidentally, I’m in space right now!” When the dialog fails to hold your interest any longer, that’s a hint it’s time to give up any hope of finishing the story.I took one last stab at making it all the way to the end by taking it to bed with me.
Perhaps our Science Fiction sensibilities have just changed quite a bit since 1964.
This book threatens to derail my plans to read every Hugo Best Novel winner; apparently the award has occasionally been an unreliable yardstick.On second thought, it must have been a slow year; I have not read Davy, The Planet Buyer, or The Whole Man, 1965's other contenders, so I can't say.
But the previous year the nominees were Cat's Cradle, Dune, Glory Road, Way Station, and Witch World.
If you've been a science fiction fan for a while, at least one of those is probably a book you enjoyed.
I like classic sci-fi, and this book spends a lot of type on unrepentant homage to classic sci-fi staples like Heinlein and Burroughs.
But at some point, I just had to accept that this was a pretty lousy book.
Maybe if it was about a hundred pages shorter, say if he had cut out about half of the drug and sex addled perspectives that added nothing, I could have embraced the ridiculous plot on the strength of the weird, but not dreadful, premise.But ultimately, this is a kind of embarrassing smorgasbord of pimply-faced sci-fi geek fantasies.
Fritz Leiber is known for Fantasy, both Swords and Sorcery and Urban Fantasy (a genre he practically invented), but The Wanderer is a mixture of disaster/apocalypse and first contact novel.
Leiber follows several groups of people through the story including two who have direct contact with the inhabitants of the Wanderer.
It is an interesting novel but it is something of a mixed bag.
The disaster scenes are well done, although I think Leiber should have focused on fewer groups stories.
A good but not great book, but interesting nonetheless just for Leiber's take on science fiction.
This is one book I could have actually judged by its cover - very cheesy. I have no idea how this won a Hugo Award. The author tries to tell a story of aliens coming to Earth from many different perspectives, but ends up just confusing the reader by never giving any depth to any of the characters. Also, many of the storylines are pointless and end without ever giving any insight as to their importance.The whole thing is very dated. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.
This book has not aged well.
Non avendo però a disposizione il testo inglese, mi limito a fare alcune considerazioni sulla storia, precedute dalla considerazione banale che non ho capito perché il titolo italiano non poteva essere la letterale traduzione di quello originale, "il Vagabondo".
Leiber ha tentato, come nota anche Giuseppe Lippi nella postfazione, di scrivere un libro di fantascienza che entrasse contemporaneamente in più generi: dalla space opera avventurosa degli anni '30 e '40 (non per nulla E.E.
Questa mancanza di unitarietà globale è una pecca del libro, così come il finale, che è davvero anticlimatico e sembra quasi essere stato messo lì posticcio per darci un taglio.
I found myself thinking, "Wow...
This may be original earth disaster/cataclysm/dystopia novel!"And then we begin plodding along with the same shallow characters for page after page, seeing them deal with, lament over, and gripe about all the effects of this new planet upon the earth.And then the cat aliens come...And that about sums it up for me: A good strong start and I book that I thought I was going to love devolving into endlessly whining characters and plot lines that could have been expressed in far fewer pages.While touching upon a few very intriguing ideas and hooking the reader with that initial hard SF edge, this book just doesn't, at least for me, do well in keeping its initial steam.*-This was the Hugo Award Winner for Best Novel for 1965.
Picked this one up at Knack's Drugstore on Lake Street in Bridgman, Michigan and read it up at the cabin in Livingston Hills.
Found it slow going, but was fascinated by one memorable element, namely the peculiar relationship between the feline commander of the enormous spacecraft and a human male, a relationship with an erotic culmination.
She, the commander, is not only nonhuman and dominant, but she is also a female.
If she had been a toad-like alien and he had accomplished the same erotic tension, then, of course, he'd get five stars.
If I didn't have a life goal of reading all the Hugo winners.....I don't know that I would have finished this book. It's really not very good. Pointless POV, terrible treatment of women and people of color. i mean really - why does every single woman, scratch that EVERY FEMALE in this book end up having sex with some douche!? Somehow it won the Hugo so it gets an extra star......
A mixture of Ellison's speculative fiction and Campbell's rocket stories. Another drug induced poorly written and edited book (attempted to do too much). The story starts with everyone being crazy and soon the whole world is a disaster and everything is crazy. Tried to tear down boundaries that early science fiction had setup (sex, drugs, death, etc).
A new planet appears out of nowhere"," and calamity ensues. Its gravity destroys the Moon"," and its tides cause devastating earthquakes"," tsunamis"," and flooding.It becomes apparent that the planet is under intelligent control"," that it was piloted through hyperspace. Are aliens coming to invade the Earth"," or is it all some cosmic accident?
Audiobook narrated by William Dietz. Fun example of classic hard SF, in some ways broader ranging and better written than other books of its type and era (1964), although the human / alien catgirl romance is a bit cringeworthy. Won the Hugo Award in 1965.
The effects on earth are horrific, as the Wanderer (as the new planet is called) causes massive tides as well as increased earthquakes and volcanic eruptions.
The novel has two (or maybe two and a half) major threads and a number of minor ones:  -- on earth, it follows a small group of people who had been attending a flying saucer/eclipse meet up.
There are a number of other threads, involving characters in New York, Florida, the UK, and around the world.
The main threads would have made an effective, powerful novel.
OK, sounds interesting and novel...But Leiber spends a third of the book just setting up the science for the whole scenario (very badly, at that!
The too many point-of-view characters all spend far too much time just moving from place to place, and we don't get even a hint of the reason for the sudden appearance of this planet until we're 80% of the way through the book.Finally, near the end we think that the characters have managed at least a little self-realization.
The combined gravity of the moon and planet cause disaster on Earth, with massive earthquakes, volcano's erupting, and ocean tides never seen before.
Next flying saucers appear in the skies around earths cities, apparently trying to mitigate some of the disastrous effects.
Then another planet arrives, causing further disaster on Earth with the addition of yet more gravity pulling on the planet.
Then a battle in space takes place between the newly arrived planet and  the first one that was called the Wandered, Then both leave, one fleeing, the other pursuing, and the skies above Earth are empty again.
I'm not sure I would have finished it, had I not seen another cover with a sexy cat alien on the cover.
However, I actually became more bored with the story and even started skimming through some chapters (something I hate doing) after the aliens were finally revealed.
But overall, this one didn't have enough of what I love him for in "The Big Time" and the Fafherd and the Grey Mouser stories.
It reminds me of why I usually prefer to get my fantasy fix in comic form...less time commitment.
One of the all time greatsIf you are old enough to have been aware of the culture of the early 1960’s, and were a reader of sf then, you must love this novel!
Modern readers may balk at the way the African American characters are portrayed, but I assure you that they were not intended in a demeaning way.
Yes, I love it for the touchstone it is to that time of my life at the fading of the Beat Generation and just before the hippy/revolution generation.
Of course, the characters reading like they were drawn from a sf readers club of the time does wonders for me too.
Unfortunately he had all these characters lying around that he just had to use, which means it took way too long to get to the cat alien (the cover illustration of said cat alien being the main reason I bought this over the other Leibers) and the inside of the Wanderer, which was very much like the cover of an early Yes album - obviously I dug this.
Yes, you'd have lost some pretty cool and interesting characters but they could have gone off and found their own novels, or stories, to be in - they weren't doing that much anyway, mostly dying or trying not to - and we could have got to the sexy Tigerishka and the reasons for the Wander's appearance much sooner, which would have been swell.
This was an interesting story, but it felt a little bit disjointed. That could just be the style at the time, though, as other books from that era are similar. Worth it if you're going through all the Hugo Award winners.
A guy in my book club said he liked this book "because unlike most people, I don't really care if there is a well constructed plot or interesting character development. I just want the science to make sense." I'm most people, and I really don't get how it won the Hugo.
