https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1175120.The_Chalet_School_in_Exile
Brent-Dyer's plot for this entire book was a necessary one: her fictional boarding school was located in the magnificent idyll of the Tiernsee (based on the real-life Achensee) in Austria.
There was no need for Brent-Dyer to tell this particular story at this particular time: she could have relocated the school off-stage, so to speak, but instead she chose to delve into the horrors of the early years of the great war with remarkable insight and prescience.
It's in this book that Joey weathers great trauma and finds great love, as well.In later years, Brent-Dyer's books grow ever more insulated from the real world, subsisting in a pleasant cocoon of the past and tradition.
Five stars on the strength of this book's year of publication: 1940.It takes real foresight to depict the Nazis as accurately as Brent-Dyer does here; doing that barely into the start of World War II (because surely this must have been written pre-1940s publication!) is astounding.This is still a school story, so almost everyone survives - and Jo gets engaged and married and has triplets - but even the usual shenanigans are tempered a little, in a surprisingly mature way, by the menace of the war.I'll need to reread this to really respond more to the story, but that's my main impression: there's a sort of heroic foresight to this, not just in its awareness of the viciousness of the Nazi regime, but in its willingness to acknowledge that not all Germans were sympathetic to the Nazis, while some ordinary citizens bought in fully and were spies from the start -- though I will note that the casual response to Germany in the beginning, when Madge is shocked at the idea of war, means that the girls' careful behavior in the train compartment doesn't quite jive.And I'd like to know how hair can go white overnight.
That nuanced ideology doesn't end there, even after the Gestapo persecute the Chalet School community and lead to a group of the girls, Miss Wilson, Jack Maynard and Gottfreid Mensch escaping through the mountains to freedom.
There's a deliberate and conscious separation of the women of the Chalet School from the 'men's war' and even that most assimilated man into the community, Jack Maynard, very clearly refers to the Chalet School Peace League as "yours" and not his.
Words and language are how these women fight - and survive - and the power of these words is potent, when the Peace League itself faces discovery.So we've got all that, which to be honest is a book and a half by itself.
Setting a boarding school in Austria was such a great idea... until World War II came along! And obviously, not even a fictional school could stay put. Loved this one, one of my favourites of the series. Very much "of the times" and all the more better for it; I'm glad E.M. Brent-Dyer didn't just pretend away the War and keep her girls in a cosy little AU.
I can actually smell this book still, My sister bought it from a Jumble Sale for 5 whole pence, and she struggled to read it, every night out came this musty old book and every night I would hear the really slow adventure not get going until, one fateful night the book vanished!!-.- heehee
It's only when I read the GGBP editions of Chalet School books that I realise just how much the Armada editions could cut out without ruining the books.
The version of this I originally read had a whole chapter cut.
She treats her babies as dolls, and seems more attached to her dog than the triplets.This is a strange book, and one that does not stand up well to re-reading as an adult.
The original Chalet School was set in the Austrian Tyrol and by the late 1930s it was untenable for Brent Dyer to continue setting contemporary books in Austria because of the Nazi invasion.
Unfortunately Brent-Dyer picked Guernsey as the new home of the Chalet School and had to move the school on again when the Nazi's invaded the Channel Islands.The reason I was rereading this book is not just because it was a childhood favourite but because I read an Armada paperback version produced in the 1970s which I later found out were heavily edited versions of the original stories and this episode was one of the most heavily edited.
Elinor Brent-Dyer was an extraordinarily prolific author who wrote more than 100 books in total, many of them in the famous Chalet School series about a 1930s girls’ school set in the Austrian Tyrol.
It’s an extraordinarily vivid snapshot of a time and a place, and one of the few children’s books of the era to deal directly with the terror of the Nazis.
An original first edition hardback with the original dust-jacket showing a SS officer confronting the girls is worth over $1,000 (though this is cheap compared to the almost $4,000 you need to fork out for a first edition copy of the first book in the series, The School at the Chalet).
Another wonderful Chalet School book, this really intrigued me, especially as I have recently been studying that period of time in History (in which the book was set.) For me, I was really quite saddened when the School leaves the Tiernsee for Guernsey.
I found it to be a pivotal moment in the book, and although Guernsey was probably a nice place, it could never take the place of Tyrol.
Robin surprised me a lot in this book.
I thought she was never going to grow up!All in all, I would recommend this book, to anyone.
Wow, this episode of the chalet school was so exciting!
So much happened and it was so moving.
It was great to see how the war was brought into the story and what exciting adventures they had with hiding the league document and then escaping from the Germans.
How quickly her life changed!
Engaged, married and pregnant!
I loved the descriptions alluding to her pregnancy, that she wasn't well or mustn't be bothered with bad news!
Then Madge says is it all over!
It moved me to tears the scene in the San when she visits the three girls.
A seemingly innocent agreement to avoid conflict casts the Chalet School girls into danger, and they find it necessary to flee their beloved Tyrolean Alps and the beautiful Tiernsee for a new location for the school. Madge settles on Guernsey, where she can borrow an estate for the duration of the war. (Oops!) As they struggle to safety, on foot ("Sound of Music" style--the musical, not real life), handsome young medic Dr. Jack Maynard confesses his love for our young Joey, and they get engaged.
Best in the series for plot, action, character development, and adventure.Easily the worst for editing! Did Chambers actually *have* an editor for this book? It's not just the inconsistencies with previous books in the series - I can forgive those, it was a different world then - it's the inconsistencies within the book itself, even *within chapters*, that spoil what would otherwise undoubtedly be the best Chalet of them all.
An important book in the lengthy Chalet School series, and one of my favourites. Naziism arrives in Austria, forcing the school to re-locate. High drama surrounds the escape of a small group after a nasty incident, told with realism. Joey, still a schoolgirl at heart at the start of the book, finally grows up and surprises her family and friends. There are warm friendships, believable characters, and an extremely moving ending.
One of the best books of the series. Far better read in its unabridged state (Chambers hardback or Girls Gone By paperback) as the Armada-abridged edition cuts a whole chapter and much more, and makes a lot of references that remain nonsensical. I'll leave a proper review for the book in the near future. Just a note for war historians: it's best read as a slight "alternate universe" with regard to the Guernsey plot.
High drama, extremely well told too. WW2 forces the school out of Austria. What must it have felt like to read this book when it was first published in 1940, when London was being bombed night after night with high explosive & the eventual victory of the Allies still lying in the distant future? Elinor M. Brent Dyer succeeds in producing realistic and lively action sensitively balanced with moments that I think any wartime child would have found greatly reassuring.
One of my favorites in this series! There's quite a lot of history in this book, as it's set around the time of Hitler. Joey and a few of the others have to escape from their home, and make their way to safety to another country, as they're under suspicion of espionage. Joey gets engaged, and readers will be surprised as to what happens to her at the end!
Finally, an unabridged version! The cut down version of this instalment was fine enough but the original really is a wonderful addition to the series as well as being more fully a transitional piece, I think.
Another book I want to read because it was recommended by Val McDermid as one of her childhood favorites.
Unabridged hardback with facsimile dustwrapper; 334 pages (needs librarian editing). Read 22-23 February 2014 for 2014 challenge.
The best work in the series.
I'm not a Chalet School aficionado, but was tempted to read this one by a number of favourable comments on a Facebook group I follow.
The only other Chalet book I have read was the first one, so I was somewhat confused by the many characters who floated in and left without contributing much to the story.
However, this book feels as if it is a significant connecting part of the overall Chalet story - many new characters are introduced who may be important in later books, and the stories of many old characters come to an end in this Chalet book.
I am glad to have read it, but it did not tempt me to read other Chalet books.
Brilliant! This book resulted in my tears at the end. Friedas rousing speech left me emotionally ovetwhelmed as I was swept up in her words of loyalty and dignity and pride for the Chalet School. The remarkable occurrence of triplets left me astounded. A thoroughly good wholesome read. The social commentary of the era is a sober reminder of the 2nd World War and it's affect on the people a previously innocent world.
