https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1470.Euripides_II
Very important tragedies, best translation, although I prefer the original one in ancient Greek!
The Cyclops - William Arrowsmith - 3 starsHeracles - William Arrowsmith - 4 starsIphigenia in Tauris - Witter Bynner - 4 starsHelen - Richard Lattimore - 3 stars
One group, called the select plays (Alcestis, Andromache, Bacchae, Hecuba, Hippolytus, Medea, Orestes, Phoenician Women, Rhesus and Trojan Women), were the ten prescribed as required reading in the late Greek and Byzantine school system—all fourteen of the tragedies we have by Sophocles and Aeschylus belong to the same category—which is to say, all of these plays are acknowledged classics.The other group are called the alphabetic plays (Electra, Helen, Heracles, Heracles' Children, Hiketes [The Suppliants], Ion, Iphigenia in Aulis, Iphigenia among the Taurians, and Kyklops [Cyclops]), because they come most likely from one part (volume two?) of a complete set of Euripides' work, originally organized in roughly alphabetical order.
Good but--This collection contains the only satyr play apparently surviving, Cyclopes, a non-Aristotelian tragedy, Heracles, and two romance plays, Iphigenia in Tauris and Helen, which share an almost identical plot, where a woman who thought was dead is actually alive in a foreign land farm from Greece, is then reunited with her brother/husband, escapes the foreign land by trickery, and divinity coming to their aid at the end à la deus ex machina.Cyclopes is short and vulgar, and could be funny (depending on your sense of humor), which is what satyr plays are supposed to be.
It is a lesson that anyone in the 20th and 21st centuries would be familiar with and could sympathize with.The Heracles may be the weakest of the four plays in this series, but stresses the title hero's humanity rather than his divinity, introducing a great deal of pathos as when he has reached his zenith of fame and power, he is brought to his own personal nadir.The last two plays, the Iphigenia in Tauris and the Helen, now two of my most favorite Euripidean plays, show many similarities, including the clever ruses of the leading women to get the leading men (and themselves) out of danger's way.
I might fill in more stuff later but:The Cyclops - 4 StarsHeracles - 5 StarsIphigenia in Tauris - 5 StarsHelen - 4 StarsI felt that Helen suffered by being included directly after Iphigenia, mostly because in many ways they are the same play, in that they share a lot of plot points. Even with that being said though, I do feel Iphigenia is stronger in terms of composition.
Ancient Greek Drama is always spectacular. This being said, this particular set of plays covers more niche, obscure events in mythology. The stories are well told, but you can see Euripides experimenting with dramatic styles and patterns throughout. Euripides has better works, but no one could question the value of any of his plays.
Only read Helen in this one. It operates based on a different version of the myth in which Helen isn't a villain but was rather whisked away to Egypt. The rest of the play is equally fanciful, making for one of the least tragic tragedies of all time. (Though not exactly for that reason,) it didn't really do much for me.
Iphagenia in Taurus was worth reading, and it makes an interesting melodrama, not really a tragedy. This volume does contain the only Satyr play to survive complete from the three great Athenian tragedians.
Repeating myself, I know, but.... What can I say? All of the well-known Greek playwrights are important reading, both for their historical significance as well as the fact that they're excellent plays. They haven't remained famous for 2,400 years because they're not worthy of it.
These plays are cool. Iphegenia in Tauris is pretty neat. But I love the Helen drama.
*the only thing that i've read from this is Helen, though i've also read The Bacchae & Trojan Women as well, but i can't remember in what book.
It's an interesting read, don't get me wrong, but I was not what I was expecting nor hoping for in this book. Although, I did find his interpretation of Helen quite refreshing.
