https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/36388243-something-in-the-water
Have you ever wondered how long it takes to dig a grave? Wonder no longer. It takes an age. However long you think it takes, double that. Let me start by giving credit where it’s due—Catherine Steadman nails the first chapter . . . hands down. Very few openers have acquired my attention as adeptly as those four simple sentences.How could any suspense reader not be enthralled with a woman who turns to Google to learn the proper depth to bury a body or look away as she carries on, one painstaking
Any guesses at the decision the couple makes?Things start to get a bit dicey when Erin and Mark find themselves back home in London, pretending to carry on as if nothing has changed.
What kills me, this could should have been so much more.The entire story is told from Erin’s perspective and it’s my belief, the author’s writing style will be hit-or-miss with readers.
Again, that’s just my take on the steady diet of nonsense the author chose to spoon-feed the reader.I'm going to end things on this note: when writing a story, or heck, even in real life, simply thinking about something, doesn’t necessarily breath it in to fruition—regardless of how many times this plot tries to persuade you otherwise.
I was unsure about this book at first, but I have to say I ended up really enjoying it and found it to be a tantalizing premise for a story.
I don’t want to make those though because I don’t think readers should go into this book expecting something similar to what they’ve already read.
From the time the boat hits the THUNK THUNK, readers will NOT be able to put this book down!
I wanted to avoid saying much about the plot beyond the discovery, because readers will absolutely love the ride this book will take them on!
Full disclosure I was running behind on my reviews so I purchased this on audio on release day and I was even a little hesitant because I saw the author was narrating....
And this book kept me on the edge of my seat from about 30% on...Erin and Mark are a happy newly married couple on their honeymoon in Bora Bora...
What is the ethical thing to do?Erin and Mark were both fabulous characters...
and the voice of eddie is absolutely the best in this audio!This really was a book unlike any other I have read before...
The story was just “meh” for me. The audio was incredible. The author is an actress from Downton Abby. If you don’t read a lot of thrillers you might enjoy this. If you do read a lot of thrillers you might find it just ok.I’m still in a rut. On to the next!
do you ever have books where you get so frustrated with the characters that you just want to scream?
I noticed that Erin and Mark both have been keeping secrets from one another.
But, Erin isn't so innocent either and has been keeping just as much from her husband Mark.
While on their honeymoon, Mark and Erin find a mysterious black bag in the ocean.
I felt that some of the events that transpired from Mark and Erin's decisions were just too unbelievable.
I felt that it would be almost impossible to get away with some of the things that Mark and Erin got away with.
Slightly predictable morality tale with a nice hook and a few clever twists-You just got married, you’re in financial straits, looking at a drastic change in your quality of living standards, but you’ve already got a nice honeymoon planned in Bora Bora- so why not enjoy every minute of your vacation?
Overall, the story is a little predictable, but I was very engaged, and very interested to see how everything would turn out in the end.
She can also write like the pros, if not better.
Listen, I accidentally read the "spoilest spoilers" EVER in the New York Times and Kirkus Reviews.
I would have enjoyed it so much more if I didn't already know what the something in the water was!
Take my word for it.The pacing is brisk, the narrator is unreliable (BUT NOT A DRUNK!) and the story translates quite believably as a realistic situation.
It's my favorite kind of suspense-building story.
Steadman writes in a slick, sophisticated manner.
Steadman acts as her own icy, sexy narrator and you will quickly understand why she is such a wonderful actress!
3.5 "money is the root of all evil" stars for this impressive debut!Erin is a filmmaker working on a prison documentary, and she is about to marry a banker named Mark Roberts.
Both Mark's banking contacts and Erin's ties with her prison documentary subjects drive the suspense in this novel, although there is a syndicate-level undertone that leaves literally everything up in the air.
Mark and Erin's relationship has both beautiful synchronicity and juxtaposition: They respect each other's ideas but have different ways of getting what they want.
Yes, she wanted desperately to prove that she was capable of making smart decisions on her own.
The story just sort of fell flat for me.The two main characters are Erin and Mark and the book is told from Erin’s POV.
There were parts in the book where I just couldn’t stand her character and wanted to scream.
Not only that, Mark can be a jerk when he wants to be and I had a hard time figuring him out in the beginning.
The ending was fairly predictable and I could see where it was going though.One of my biggest issues with the book was all the added details and some of the secondary characters.
If I read a book straight through the night, can't put it down at work, interrupt meals to get back to it, it's worthy of five stars.
And this was the case for Something in the Water.
Very few books, achem, thrillers deserve five stars, imho.
I thought this thriller was expertly plotted and quick-paced.
What is Something in the Water about?
A couple, Erin and Mark, having just gotten married, set forth on their honeymoon in Bora, Bora.
I couldn't put it down, and for me, that is the mark of killer thriller.Thank you to the publisher for providing me with an ARC in exchange for review
3.5⭐Wow! What dynamite first chapter! Thought I’d be in for the thriller of the summer. If only...This book reminded me of the old slasher movies where you’re screaming at the characters not to go into the basement. I found myself screaming at Erin and Mike, Not to open the duffel bag!But of course characters aren’t going to listen to me. At seemingly every turn they’d be doing something that would just make me cringe and screaming, “stop!!” 😱“ Have you ever wondered how long it takes to dig a g
If only...This book reminded me of the old slasher movies where you’re screaming at the characters not to go into the basement.
I found myself screaming at Erin and Mike, Not to open the duffel bag!But of course characters aren’t going to listen to me.
At seemingly every turn they’d be doing something that would just make me cringe and screaming, “stop!!” 😱“ Have you ever wondered how long it takes to dig a grave?”The book held my interest, even though I was almost hoarse from yelling at the characters.
I’d like to say I walked loving it...
How deep is deep enough?Catherine Steadman creates quite the electrically charged happenings in Something In The Water.
We, as readers, are going to remember their faces as well.Just keep in mind your usual response in a darkened movie theater to the girl who has her hand on the doorknob: Don't, please don't, go down in that creepy basement alone, sweetheart.
And Erin is going to find out the hard way what that's all about even before the web is spun.I've got to hand it to Catherine Steadman for keeping the tension on high voltage throughout this one.
Then the more I read, the more I became sure: there is no reason for us reading a wedding reception 3 course menu, and prices, for pages, OR how our character interprets a pregnancy test for at least a few page (I mean not emotionally but literally with the blue crosses and a lot of ‘fuck’ and ‘shits’),OR how do we learn about Glock’s for at least 5 pages – at that point I asked myself, I can read this in Wikipedia-Honestly, as far as I know it’s better to tell something with less words.
This one starts with a bang! The opening chapter was one of the most intriguing I've read in a very long time. I was instantly curious and wanted to know what happened ( an event in the end of the story is revealed in the beginning chapter).  Let's just say I was  hooked! I listened to this one on Audible and the narrator (who happens to be the author Catherine Steadman ) was perfection.  The timeline shifts back to tell the story of Erin and Mark, who are newlyweds, passionately in love and pl
I was instantly curious and wanted to know what happened ( an event in the end of the story is revealed in the beginning chapter).
I listened to this one on Audible and the narrator (who happens to be the author Catherine Steadman ) was perfection.
The timeline shifts back to tell the story of Erin and Mark, who are newlyweds, passionately in love and planning a trip in the sun to Bora, Bora.
Well, turns out plenty.I loved the unreliable characters, the twisty edge of your seat plot, and rather frantic pace.
4 shocking stars to Something in the Water!
🏝 🏝 🏝 🏝 Erin films documentaries, and her new husband, Mark, is an investment banker.
Everything is tropical and picture-perfect, until they find something in the water while scuba diving.
Erin and Mark have to decide if they will tell the truth or keep a secret.
The side characters who are prisoners Erin is filming in her documentary added a secondary story that I found enthralling.
Something in the Water is both thrilling and engaging.
Something in the Water will be released on June 5, 2018.
Have you ever wondered how long it takes to dig a grave? Wonder no longer. It takes an age. However long you think it takes, double that. And with an opening sentence like that, I was in. I cannot deny that the suspense build was good here and certainly had me glued to the pages in front of me. I was desperate to know what it is this passionately in love couple found in the water on their honeymoon in Bora Bora that would set them on this course of destruction. The issue is: the payoff of that
And the random tangents the narrator would go off on to give paragraphs of information that is completely irrelevant to the plot at hand...I should've known this would be a thing when the detail of what it takes to dig a grave in that first chapter was so elaborate that I could've then gone to dig a grave myself without needing to google any of the specifications including depth necessary to be successful.
I copped it to a build of suspense..because who isn't intrigued by an opening chapter where a woman is digging a grave and gets into the intricacies of what needs to be done.
SOMETHING IN THE WATER by CATHERINE STEADMAN is an engaging, refreshing, and a steady paced thriller that immediately drew me in with its opening scene and had me totally intrigued in finding out what was in the water.
There were so many parts that I enjoyed and was totally entertained by, but then after finishing it, I was a little underwhelmed and disappointed by the whole story in general.
Although, I will say that I thoroughly enjoyed CATHERINE STEADMAN’S descriptive writing style though which kept me totally invested in this story.
I will say though that I actually quite enjoyed the main character and didn’t experience some of the same issues that other readers did.
This is a thriller about a couple who find themselves in financial distress weeks before their wedding and the decisions they make afterwards will have life-changing consequences.
Erin is a documentary filmmaker and Mark is a banker who loses his job days before the big day.
The book opens up with an engaging scene where Erin is digging a grave to bury a body.
It is true that the factors such as motivation and opportunity were present for Erin and Mark to behave the way they did, but still.
Overall, the novel was engaging and the author kept the plot moving forward.
I found Erin initially very irritating.
She did grow on me and by the end of the book I liked her and appreciated her initiative.
This is a very slow burn leading up to the big discovery.
And even after the discovery, the pace doesn’t really pick up until the very end.
It’s just a pretty slow moving book.
That said, the ending is very good.
But it was just too apparent to me what was happening and how we ended up with that dead body.
Steadman does a very good job narrating her own book.
Something in the Water was such a page turner! It started off a little slow, but then something happens and the pace picks up and never slows. I won't give away any plot details, because there are lots of twists and turns, but it was definitely an engaging story with multi-dimensional characters. I zipped through this book over the weekend and absolutely recommend it as a gripping, clever and entertaining summer read!Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
4.25 Stars → This anxiety-inducing book was A LOT of fun to read.
I had to know what’s in the water!!The opening chapter starts with a bang.
I think I was just TOO impatient - waiting, waiting, waiting - to find out what was in the water.
And then, thunk thunk thunk...SOMETHING IN THE WATER was such an entertaining book, but also made me very nervous!
What were you thinking??After the big discovery, the author did a fantastic job keeping the suspense going and the pages turning.
I can't think of a more perfect "beach" thriller to read this summer.
The story begins by setting the scene of their daily life in London and their wedding planning.
The couple goes to Bora Bora for their honeymoon and while scuba diving, finds something in the water that changes their lives moving forward.
The rest of the story follows their course of action as Erin and Mark decide what to do, and how to do it.
That said, I did really enjoy Something in the Water, finding myself curious to see what Erin and Mark’s next moves would be, as each move heightened the story and I remained interested in the outcome through the end of the book.
This is a refreshing take on the psychological thriller trope. The beginning is more than just a little intriguing. How long does it actually take to bury a body? From there the build and character development slow down significantly until it picks up about midway. Ethics come into question, criminal behavior is more exhausting than one might imagine and you may not know another as well as you think you do. Satisfying but not necessarily harrowing.
What an intriguing and clever page turner, just the book to wile away the hours by the pool on my holidaySomething in the water by Catherine Steadman grabbed my attention while I was reading a goodread's friends review and I knew this was going to be on my holiday read list.
This is the sort of book where the compulsion to continue reading never wanes.
The Novel opens with a woman digging a grave and her descriptions of same really feed the reader's imagination and you just want to find out the whys and when and how.
The story opens with a great line: “Have you ever wondered how long it takes to dig a grave?
Until I read/listened to roughly 10 pages of details about the intricacies and details of digging a grave, including the cubic feet of the hole, and how much the soil weighs.
But who cares???Knowing the protagonist actually had the wherewithal to google how to dig a grave made me think she was a sociopath.
Erin is shocked when Mark has to spell out in detail that the loss of his job means they will have to cut back on the wedding.
After that, there is a slow build to the something in the water  and the tumultuous set of events that happen after.Erin, a documentary filmmaker with the chance of a career breakthrough; Mark, a handsome investment banker.
Mistakes come down to three things: (1) lack of time, (2) lack of initiative, (3) lack of care.While Erin's actions have been criticised (by myself included), Catherine Steadman does a brilliant job at delving into the logical and illogical psyche that most of us have, which can lead to making questionable decisions.
"Digging a grave is very hard" as you will discover after reading the first chapter entitled, of course, The Grave.
It all begins with an actual grave being dug, then quickly reverts back in time to the start of a new relationship, marriage and big plans for the future.
Then, even though a big disappointment for the newlyweds rears itself, the expensive first class South Pacific honeymoon goes on....and an eerie and intense atmosphere ensues.
And, ok, one downside (for me).....one of the main characters is naive, reckless and, YES, just plain stupid at times, but STILL.....great summer read!
Something In The Water by Catherine Steadman is a thriller that certainly had an opening that should grab readers right away, the main character digging a grave.
After finding out that there would be a need for a grave readers jump back in time to find out just what led to that event.Erin and Mark seem to be very much in love and excited to be planning their wedding and honeymoon.
Sun and surf and adventure seems to be just what the couple need to bring them right back together.
Let’s move on then.THE PLOT: We open with Erin, our protagonist, digging this grave for her husband.
At this point, I’m innocently thinking these guys will connect to the story in a logical way.Then finally, at their honeymoon in Bora Bora, they find a plane wreck and a bag full of money and diamonds, a USB and a phone.
It even hurts to write this.If you’re not even convinced with the plot, let’s move on to the UN-ATTENTION to DETAIL:Apparently Ashar Farooq is a Turkish name according to the book.
They also discover a bag containing money, diamonds, a phone, and an USB drive.
With this discovery life swerves and changes into something neither of them had planned for.
That bag and its contents will change everything for this couple.
As the couple navigates through what the contents of this bag means for them, they embark on a life not so perfect as they had planned, with its many twists and turns.
Catherine Steadman has created a novel that is fascinating to read.
(Bob Menendez) For Erin and Mark this journey is not one bit pretty.
