https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43328.Rage_of_Angels
The boss swears to destroy her after he finds out about her affair with the politician and the child resulting from the affair.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفدهم ماه جولای سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: خشم فرشتگان ؛ نویسنده: سیدنی شلدون؛ مترجم: هادی عادلپور؛ تهران، کوشش، 1373؛ در 511 ص؛ چاپ سوم 1379؛ چاپ پنجم 1388؛ شابک: 9646326269؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مداستان دختری به نام جنفیر پارکر است.
دختری که از ممتازترین شاگردان در دانشگاه حقوق بود.
اما در نخستین روز حضورش در دادگاه، اتفاقی برای جنیفر افتاد، رخدادی غیرقابل پیش بینی، اتفاقی که سرنوشت او را عوض کرد.
Amoung four Sheldon's books, This one has to be my most fave!The plot is so intense and unputdownable.
Jennifer Parker, she is an intelligent associate, but her life turns up side down after she is choosen to be a pawn in the trial of a Mafia Michael Moretti.
the Lawyer aspect of this book is even intenser than Julie James's books *no offence* I love her works anyway.
BUT This is the Lawyer book I want to read!
Jennifer is such a smart clever lawyer I want to be.Romance is intense!
*swoon*If you guys love reading about Lawyer, Politician, and Mafia..
After reading Rage of Angles, I am certain that I so much adore the girls who are independent, who love their freedom, who are not driven by what other tells them to do, who are on their own in this Jungle.
I want to know what was not there in this book, love, hatred, agony, betrayal, intrigue, passion, just name it.Jennifer Parker, Adam Warner and Michael Moretti, I'm in love with the names.I'm going to be terrified for the rest of my life with the last lines of this book --> "But she was looking into the past, trying to understand when it was that all the laughter died."This is exactly what I felt after finishing it.Just when I used to think that isn't everything going wonderful, that's a bit odd!
I can't wait to read more of his works :)
Anatomy of a Sidney Sheldon readUpon getting book from library: I have read so many serious books lately.
It'll be fun to read Sheldon again.
Page 20: another virginal brilliant ingenue heroine?
Page 148: ok, make that another virginal brilliant ingenue heroine who falls in love with the wrong guyPage 175: you know, I liked Hart to Hart when I was 10.Page 200: How. Many.
And one of them reminds me a lot of The Other side of Midnight’s Larry Douglas mixed with Demiris.Page 420: this book is kinda sad Page 505: hooray I'm done.
Verdict: maybe I'm too much of a literary snob to enjoy these sort of books anymore.
After knowing so many great books, I put Sidney Sheldon out of my priority.But from all the book he (I thought it was a she) wrote, this one and Sand of Times is my favourite.This book is about Jennifer (see, I still remember her name though I don’t have the book), a young lawyer who entered her career in a positive manner and optimism in her blood.
I need end of Sands of Time to recover my sadness from reading this.
More importantly, I couldn't help admiring the main character, Jennifer Parker, a successful lawyer for sticking up for herself, for being such a fighter, a go-getter, a woman with talent, courage and intelligence who is not afraid to show it.
At times, Jennifer was weak, she made stupid decisions that destroyed her hard work and reputation but then continued to follow up with more bad decisions concerning men, but that just makes her a deeply flawed interesting character and I like that.
I really admire Sidney Sheldon for letting his main character go crazy, for not being afraid to let his heroine soar high, to be triumphant and suddenly fall to pieces in a major way that had me horrified.
I still love this book because the story is just This story revolves primarily around Jennifer's stupidity and questionable decisions when it comes to Michael and Adam.
But if I met Jennifer right now, I would bitch slap her back to the land of common sense.
Then again, if she had been smart in the first place, there wouldn't have been such a captivating story.FYI, (view spoiler)[Jennifer, when you see some guy act like he is part of a group then tells you to deliver a sealed envelope to a key witness, just don't do it.
And sleeping with Adam?
Jennifer...
Sidney Sheldon has pushed his imagination to the extremes, and finally there is everything in this book that a book needs to be complete.Jennifer is in love with Adam Warner and Michael Moretti and nothing seems to make sense and on top of that her son, Joshua, dies and she is all alone.
It’s easy for me to say because I don’t live her fate, but if I ever did, then I would be likely to feel the same conflicting emotion between Adam Warner, the person who stole her heart and created the loneliness in her life and Michael Moretti, the person who erased it and became the passion she could not resist.
2.5 starsYeah, Sidney Sheldon was definitely better when I was 16. And by the way, I could have sworn he was a she. I cannot say I wasn't entertained though.
I always come back to you when I need a bit of a palate cleanser between loftier fare.
I REALLY hoped some of the clients Jennifer miraculously got off in her climb to the top would come back and save HER in the second half.
Admittedly my beat up 80s copy was missing ten pages around a third of the way in, but I doubt if those bits were crucial to the Ken subplot.
What WAS Ken...?
What WAS Ken...?
One word : Terrific !Rage of Angels is a brilliant piece of literature. I loved everything about it. The protagonists, the plot, writing, everything gets a thumbs up from me.
I know this book was written in the early seventies and I tried really hard to keep that in context, but I just couldn't get past the rampant chauvanism this book was laden with.
Sheldon tries to portray Jennifer Parker as a strong, independent woman but throughout the story, her life revolves around men!
Her father dies of a broken heart after his wife's affair and subsequent abandonment...and his daughter proceeds to have not one but two relationships with married men!
I found very little to like about Jennifer.
اما آیا هوش و ذکاوت فقط باید در جنبه شغلی به کار گرفته شود؟جنیفر در اطرافیان خود می بیند که عشق به غیرهمسر موجب فروپاشی خانواده ها شده است.
آیا این ذکاوت است؟ آیا باید همسر این مرد که در بزنگاه از همسرش حامله می شود تا زندگیش را حفظ کند، بدجنس و مکار بدانیم؟تفاوت عشق زنان و مردانجنیفر (و شاید هر زنی) برای عشق خود حاضر است هر کاری انجام دهد.
هوش در این مواقع دلایلی مناسبی برای سرکوبی وجدان و پنهان کردن خطاها از دیگران می یابد.اما مردان در مواجهه با خطای عشق شان چگونه اند؛ اخلاق مدار به حکم شرافت، نمی تواند از خطاکار محافظت کند.
If you remember his novel Nothing Lasts Forever where it revolves around an intelligent doctor, now, the Rage of Angels tells the story of a young brilliant lawyer and anything that goes around the courtrooms.
As the story progresses, our protagonist picked up every pieces of strength and dignity she still has in her and after having been successful in her pro bono cases she turns out to be the figure of the Godess of the courtrooms.If you are an aspiring lawyer or in the field of law, this is totally a book for you.
My First Sidney Sheldon and I fell in love.The story never gave a hint that it would be such a heart

Loved every single page of it.
I read this book when I was in college.
Smart lawyer lady (Jennifer) gets involved with mob guy (Michael Moretti...I just loved that name) when she enlists his help to find her illigimate son (Fathered by a powerful congressman)who has been kidnapped by a lunatic who blames her for mishandling his case.In return for Moretti's help, she becomes involved in a relationship with him.........all the while still being in love with her son's Father (the senator).
evil with Jennifer in the middle.This is one of the books.
I might read (skim) it again and see if I feel the same way about it.
This is the first Sidney Sheldon novel I've read, and I can now understand why he's so popular.Jennifer Parker is on her first day of her new job working for the District Attorney's office in New York City, when she does something horrible.
With his Mafia trial falling apart once the witness refuses to continue his testimony, the district attorney vows to disbar Miss Parker.
The defendant was Micheal Moretti, heir to one of New York's great Families.Weeks after the trial, Adam Warner steps into Parker's life.
People have political ambitions for Warner, and Parker's case is seen as a stepping stone for his great future.But nothing goes as planned.
The very first day of Jennifer’s career as a lawyer has been crumbled.
Michael Moretti ruins it.
But Adam Warner comes into her life, only to bring love and life into it.
Her world turns upside down when he leaves her.
Her fate ties her with Michael Moretti.
Being loved by two influential men of the society, Jennifer could’ve done anything to elevate her up, but she reduces herself to be a pawn in their hands.
Joshua Adam Parker’s death left me speechless.
Caught in-between the race of muted love and unnoticed sacrifices, Jennifer stole my heart as a wonderful lawyer.
Wt a book!! Firstly I feel bad for not reading this book earlier!! While reading this thought went thru mind!! Nevertheless, better late!!Speaking about this book, it is one of the books which took me along with its script!! The narration by Sheldon was as awesome as usual!! It gives u an unexplainable thrill and the way it was maintained through out the plot is praiseworthy!!Plot begins slowly gains its pace n never looks back!! Its a perfect amalgamation of thriller, romance and fiction!! No one can beat sheldon in this area!!Kudos to him for writing such a wonderful book!!
The first book I read by Sidney Sheldon. I love learning about the dirty ways of the mafia and how much control they have over Brooklyn. If you like deception, seduction, and a freaking hot mafia leader, then you will go nuts for this books!
Once this book was on my hand, I didn’t want to put it away.
Another masterpiece of Sidney Sheldon; This is the story of Jennifer Parker, a lady with beauty and brain, who falls in love with two men from completely different background.
The story emphasizes on how Jennifer struggles around the strategized maze of vengeance, politics, love and crime.
I definitely know that whenever I am alone and quiet, and its raining outside, I will be staring out of my window, with coffee in one hand and this book in another; refreshing each detail of the story, that has left enormous impact in my heart and brain.
Sidney Sheldon books, I finally gave it a try :D It was around 2012 and before that I only read young adult books, and well educational books that I find interesting, he opened me up to the amazing world of books, all genres :p This book is the latest that I have read among all his books.
I thought I knew how the story would go but I was wrong.
I thought I knew how the ending would go but then again, I was wrong.

As soon as I started reading this one, I couldn't put it down.The story focuses on Jennifer, a young idealist lawyer from a small town who has moved to the big city to put away the bad guys.
After a major, albeit innocent, mistake she is completely outcast from her prosecutor's office and struggles to stay in the city and become a top lawyer.I don't want to spoil too much more then that.
I will warn you that this is not a happy, feel-good book though, but it's very good and Sidney Sheldon has made my list of authors to check out.
I highly recommend this book.
Çok uzun zamandır böyle bir roman okudugumu hatırlamıyorum ..Etkilenmek kelimesi az kalır..Güzel avukat Jennifer Parkerin sıra dışı yaşamı..Bu kitabı keşke daha önce okusaydim bu kadar uzun zaman bekletmeseydim elime aldım birakamadim..Sidney Sheldon'in kalem gücü işte bu..Bu kitabın filmi cevrildiyse en kısa zamanda onuda seyredeceğim..Şiddetle tavsiyemdir....
Tako sam ljuta. Zelim srecan kraj...
I just have a word for this book:FANTASTIC !
Cho 3 sẽ là thiệt thòi cho những cuốn không xuất sắc nhưng vẫn có nhiều cái hay khác.Sau Nếu còn có ngày mai và Người đàn bà quỷ quyệt, mình đã lần lượt thất vọng với những nhân vật nữ có hơi hướng giống "thần" (không tài giỏi thì may mắn, hoặc cả hai và khuyến mãi thêm phần quyến rũ - dù theo kiểu ngây thơ hay không) khác của Sidney Sheldon.
Với Thiên thần nổi giận, có thể sẽ mang lại bất ngờ hoặc thú vị cho bạn nào mới đọc sách của Sidney Sheldon chứ không phải người đọc đến đâu, đoàn đoạn tiếp đó như mình.
