https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/536119.The_Flight_from_the_Enchanter
Interesting 50s office sexual politics: secretaries slowly and carefully getting promoted and taking over, unchallenged. Cold war influences re the sinister aspect of central/eastern Europe, plus a right-of-passage novel regarding one character.
This is a story of a group of people under a spell, and the centre of it all is the mysterious Mischa Fox, the enchanter.Opening: It was about three o'clock on a Friday afternoon when Annette decided to leave school.
In an affected high-pitched voice the Italian tutor was reading aloud throm the twelfth canto of the Inferno.My copy is the 3'6d 1964 Penguin edition.
Thoroughly enjoyed this weekend read, tucked up warm against the minus 18C."Blick is the dark half of Misha Fox's mind.
I don't personally know anyone who has read Iris Murdoch's novels.
She pits the laughable characters against the admirable ones, so it is the tensions between characters rather than the somewhat thin plot that moves the story and compels the reader.The novel takes place in 1950s London amidst literary people, early feminists, government bureaucrats and immigrants, but the moral theme of how much power any individual should concede to another over one's life is universal.
I loved this book!!!! Once again (as with The Bell), the characters jump at you and move on their own. She has a way of interconnecting various characters in surprising ways - selecting only 3 or 4 of them in which to use omniscient voice, and those character really do grab you and make you want to come back to the book. I did find Mischa intriguing, and wished that she would have used the omniscient voice with him, but maybe that would have ruined his power, as I took him to be the Enchanter.
I liked this a lot at the beginning; but by the end, I was kind of irritated and impatient to be done with it. Still, there is no gainsaying that Murdoch is an amazing writer. There are some extremely funny set pieces; there are elements of fable; and throughout it all, absolutely stunning prose - smooth, full of arresting but utterly convincing images, psychologically compelling.
The Flight from the Enchanter was Murdoch's second book, but it was my first introduction to my number-one writing hero, which made me long to also write about love and power and goodness and beauty and what makes up a human being.
Enchanter isn’t her best book, for me that is The Sea The Sea, but it was the first I read.
I loved Iris Murdoch from that moment on, and reading her made me think more deeply, write more avidly and dream great dreams.
"Never mind what they establish!" said Rosa. "So all your work was for nothing, for nothing!" She spoke half angrily, half in grief.Yup.
After reading Under the Net, Iris Murdoch’s first novel, The Flight from the Enchanter is quite a different book.
This begins with Rosa and her unsettling relationship with the two Polish men, intensifies with the creepy John Rainborough and ends with the sadistic Calvin Blick, henchman for the enigmatic but equally menacing Mischa Fox. There were parts of the novel, particularly involving Anette where I was very uncomfortable with how the women were being treated and I was very glad when Mrs. Wingfield and her cronies came on the scene for some momentary light relief.
My first foray into Murdoch's oeuvre has left me a little confused and muddled.
A complicated book that never really delivers what it promises; too many non-sequiturs.
The premise really never culminates into anything.
The characters are imprisoned (and thereby narrowed) by their own inaction and fear and far too many of them dissolve into tears at the slightest provocation.
It frustrated me.
If this is a clever book, then it's cleverness exceeds my reading abilities.
I'm not dismissing it in its entirety though; it has literary merit of a modernist bent, and as such is worth a read.
L'INCANTATORE di Iris Murdoch mi ha lasciata perplessa, perché non l'ho capito.
Ci sono tanti personaggi le cui vicende sono intrecciate, ho impiegato più o meno mezzo libro (composto da poco meno di 300 pagine) per cogliere chi fosse l'incantatore del titolo (il che, secondo la scuola di sceneggiatura da cui provengo, è UN DELITTO GRAVISSIMO!), sono rimasta abbastanza intrigata dalla prima parte, perché scorre veloce, è accattivante e stuzzichevole, anche sotto il profilo del sottile erotismo di cui è pregna.
Ho faticato a finire le ultime 10 pagine, che ho letto nello stesso tempo delle prime 200.
The story of a group of people who love and fear the magician who affects all their lives: the ravishing and eccentric young Annette who, after swinging on a chandilier, runs away from her finishing school to enter the School of Life, and learns a good deal more than she bargained for: the fierce and melancholy Rosa, the mistress of two Polish brothers: her brother, editor of a down-at-heel magazine: the scholar, Peter Saward, obsessed by an indecipherale ancient script: Rainborough, a civil servant, struggling in the toils of his secretary.
Their lives revolve around the mysterious figure of Mischa Fox, a frightening, yet also touching, figure of power.
I really enjoyed reading the novel. It is a very full story - nice composition of characters, intense narrative and deep insight of contemporary issues that might freeze you even nowadays - deportations, threats, illegal work etc.
Un libro insolito, in cui sembra mancare una unità centrale, tuttavia capace di trascinare nella lettura delle vicende di una moltitudine di personaggi.
Man mano che andavo avanti invece mi sono resa conto che non esiste uno svolgimento organico di fatti ma, come nella vita reale, personaggi e storie si intrecciano in un susseguirsi di eventi apparentemente slegati da loro.
Emigrazione illegale, diritti dei lavoratori, in una Londra in cui le donne sono libere ma non liberate da sé stesse, da quel desiderio e dipendenza dagli uomini che sembra più fisica che intellettuale.
A fascinating read ... fuller review to follow!14.16
I'm a devotee of almost any audiobook narrated by Robin Sachs, and he didn't disappoint in this audio edition of The Flight from the Enchanter. This was my first Murdoch, and I have to admit that I found it more than a little confusing. I won't detail the plot; I'll just say that I still don't understand the denouement. I think this audio version is available only from audible.com. I'm not sorry that I used one of my "credits" on it. I may even listen to it again, if only to have 11 hrs of Sachs's soothing voice.
Murdoch seems to have a limitless talent for taking any idea, however promising, in the wrong direction. It may have something to do with her predilection for mythological and classical parallels. The problem is, you can't go chasing archetypes in this dogged manner. They invariably elude the direct approach, and more often than not the author is left high and dry.
A book where apparently people never lock their doors and when you don't, a Polish guy will creep into your house and set your lil' brother's hair on fire.
Mixture of Agota Kristof, feminist novels and Bildungsroman (which wasn't). Charming and a bit haunting novel. May God and readers save Learys secondhand bookshop in Inverness.
But the lesson learnt, or the answer to the muddle, seemed to be found in running back to mummy and daddy.Rosa allowed herself to become enmeshed in a sexual power play and a weird kind of cold war comic menace with the Polish brothers, Jan and Stefan.John got caught up in office politics and an early wave of feminist action.
He was another ineffectual man bumbling along looking for a saviour.Nina was an outsider open to manipulation and to being forgotten.Mischa seemed to be the power base or the saviour that everyone else gravitated towards.
I found The Flight from the Enchanter a more consistently amusing and coherent read than Under the Net.The characters were all intriguing and felt more-or-less like rounded individuals, rather than ciphers for philosophical viewpoints.
Take a bow the Veruca Salt-esque Annette and that wet puddle of middle-aged resentment and sexual frustration Mr. Rainborough.While the philosophical reflections on the nature of truth and the difficulty or impossibility of arriving at a correct or verifiable version of reality arrived quite naturally in the dialogue between Blick and Rosa toward the end of the novel.Mischa was a very intriguing character.

What I enjoy most in a book is to get partway into one and find that I'm reading something quite unlike anything I've read before.
This novel is very much like that.
Very soon afterwards I was writing to a friend, telling her that I was reading a strange book, but a good one, that was very unusual.
It is a small handful of books that glide along on a well-crafted narrative, from one bizarre scene piled on top of the next, so that by the time you've come to the end you feel as though you've been to the carnival.
Ummm... I must have missed something. Although this story flowed quite quickly and the end of one page drew to the beginning of the next it was more to find out what happens next than a desire to drink up the character's lives. More could have been done with them. That said, the introduction mentions that this might have been her first novel. Coming from reading "Night Circus" it does not compare well as a first novel.
It is often said that Iris Murdoch was a moral writer. A philosophical writer. My reading of this novel (my first Murdoch) found this to be true. We humans are not fabulistic creatures. We are people. We always stumble and make errors in judgement as we try to figure life out. This book was filled with humor and symbolism. I liked it.
Both sex scenes already have seemed like rape to me. Very upsetting.
In the beginning it seemed uneven and at times hard to stand the story. All comes together and is strangely memorable and fascinating. I have an urge to read more Iris Murdoch.
Less fantasy than I wanted, really, and it started to irritate me towards the end. Murdoch is a great writer but I was let down with the ending.
Lesser Murdoch to me, has lots of the things that are good in her writing, but the overall story, and the supposed spell of the "enchanter," seemed overwrought and underdeveloped.
The notion that one can liberate another soul from captivity? That’s the illusion of the young
Partially owned by Rosa Keepe and edited by her brother Hunter, the journal represents Fox's desire to sublimate the feminine.
Whether masculine power is represented by sexual possession in her relationship to the Lusiewicz bothers, through the subtle influences of Mischa Fox, the impotent adulation of Saward, or the desire to protect as Hunter tries to do, Rosa must ultimately strike her own course if she is to take back her power.Surprisingly modern, unexpectedly touching, by turns humorous and tragic, The Flight from the Enchanter is a thoroughly enjoyable read and might just make you a little wiser on the eternal dance of men and women.
