https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/959613.A_Glastonbury_Romance
John Cowper Powys was one of those outstanding modernists who have boldly outstepped the bounds of literary traditions.People going to be executed, people going to deathbeds, people going to bury their dead – their shadows look the same.
Shadows have no hearts.
Now perhaps it is my father’s doing that I simply think that response a legacy of thousands of years of evolution, an instinct remaining from the days when the world outside the cave was violent and dangerous.
It is super-human."I don't think this response comes just from the number of characters, from the size of his project, but from this conflation of millennia of belief and experience into one place and one time.
There are some good reviews of this on GR - I like this: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...in particular, probably because we seem to have had a similar response...Whether or not this novel will work for you is impossible for me to tell, indeed it failed for me on a number of occasions before finally hitting its stride.
So, if you read almost any review of this book, or indeed anything written about it, you are likely to encounter a quotation of its remarkable first sentence:At the striking of noon on a certain fifth of march, there occurred within a causal radius of Brandon railway-station and yet beyond the deepest pools of emptiness between the uttermost stellar systems one of those infinitesimal ripples in the creative silence of the First Cause which always occur when an exceptional stir of heightened consciousness agitates any living organism in this astronomical universe.Now, if you had to guess what sort of novel would follow this opener, would you say "an endearingly down-to-earth chronicle of everyday life, romantic entanglements, and local politics in a small town?" Probably wouldn't be your first guess, anyway.
John Cowper Powys was a brilliant and courageous writer who possessed some truly unique insights.
There are many passages in this book that make you want to 'store' them somewhere, that seem to be a treasure you'd never want to lose — either because of the things he says or because of the way he says them.
Unfortunately, Powys wasn't a great storyteller.
The book just doesn't _cohere_, it's not well-structured, there's a lot of things there that just don't add much to the whole.
But if you want something that will make you enter a world which is like nothing you've experienced, but is eerily familiar at the same time, read this book.

it's a companiable book.The book opens with John Crow, a rather shiftless, stubborn, lone wolf youngish man, coming home for his grandfather's funeral.
For the first 100 pages of this I was thinking, but this is exactly my thing, why did I not read more earlier?
Once into the next hundred I thought ah, it's because Powys fits more into fifty pages than most authors do into a whole novel.
Reading a whole book by Powys is like reading twelve books by the same author back to back.
The good thing is that it's not like reading twelve books that are exactly the same back to back.
this book is really large but it's not very hard to read, there's just a lot of it. some parts read kind of 19th century realist, like the character descriptions where he goes into every crevice of their facial features and their family histories, as well as the dialogue. but there are also these very cool modernist parts where he starts talking about how the sun is an enemy of a specific person, or how the vital energy that permeates all life is responding to events, in long sentences. nice book
A Glastonbury Romance is an immense book. There are 47 principle characters in all and if that's not a lot, there's always all the extras whose names make it in but who quickly pass out. A Glastonbury Romance encompasses the widest girth of human experience I could imagine, as I can't wonder what John Cowper Powys has left out. Read more about this "girt" book here.
The first sentence is known as the Beechers Brook of British fiction and if you get major arm problems from holding its huge weight you can hollow it out and use it as a garden shed. In other words a huge novel that tries the most dedicated reader. If you persevere you'll have a unique experience. Powys is a one off, seen as a link between Hardy and Lawrence he in fact is entirely his own man. If you get this it will set you on a lifetime relationship with a great, very odd mind.
That's in the first 50 pages or so(chapter 1) only 950 to go!- John and Mary are referred to as "returning natives".- Back in East Anglia(The Nine Tailors)but only for a while.- A familiar debate on Right vs Left politics.- Scopas???...
I love the way the author pushes the overarching spiritual themes both general and specific to "Avallonia" while grounding the story in all the individual characters, their stories and their interactions.
Both Anglicans...Now into book(2,3?) in this "year-in-the-life" of Glastonbury.
There were so many characters that the author didn't get to all of them and their status by the end of the book.
Set btewwen the wars the novel's plot revolves around the troubles between Phillip Crow an industrialist in Glastonbury and John Geard a lay preacher and mayor and their two conflicting visions of Glastonbury.
This is not a personally past but rather the history of place, what the situationalists would later attempt to describe with psychogeography.Powys also takes apart the current political trends and places them in contrast with the spiritual.
This approach makes the novel incredibly prescient as under Geard Glastonbury has a craft revival which is cast in opposition to the monolithic mass market capitalism of Crow, a narrative thread which prefigures the current trend towards artisanism in opposition to the supermarket mentality.
George Steiner's claim that this book marks Powys as the only English novelist fit to stand in the company of Dostoevski or Tolstoi may be a bit over the top, but only in the word "only." This sweeping panorama of all the range of expressions of love (and I do mean all) is surely one of the great novels in any language.
The story, too complex to summarize, deals with the twin impacts on the town of Glastonbury of a visionary attempting to revive the medieval mysteries in a community pageant and a present-day (1930s) industrialist who has other plans.
This is a book I shall return to many times.
Read more than 20 years ago, in part because it was there on my office mate’s shelf and partly because Jeff Bursey was mentioning Powys to me as, at least alphabetically, a logical choice to follow Powell. I agree with the recent review here, that it is a huge book but not a difficult one. It did not, however, inspire me to shift down the shelf from Powell!
This time I stopped after about 400 pages. It was great when I read it while I was young. Now it's overkill. Or out of date? I don't know. It's marvelous & for me now, unreadable.
I tried to read this hefty tome way back in the late 70s when going through an Arthurian phase, and for a very long time it had the distinction of being the only book I started but could not finish.
Something passed at that moment, a wave, a motion, a vibration, too tenuous to be called magnetic, too subliminal to be called spiritual, between the soul of a particular human being who was emerging from a third-class carriage of the twelve-nineteen train from London and the divine-diabolic soul of the First Cause of all life.In the soul of the great blazing sun, too, as it poured down its rays upon this man's head, while he settled his black travelling bag comfortably in his left hand and his hazel-stick in his right, there were complicated superhuman vibrations; but these had only the filmiest, faintest, remotest connexion with what the man was feeling.
Eccentric, rambling, unabashed by risking all the world in his words, GR, along with Porius, is the most Powysian (sorry for that!) of Powys. This is a world-making in this word. Drunk with language character, and caricature (and for Powys these two are often one) it is visionary and mundane. It takes a peculiar kind of reader to be able to swallow it all. If you can, it will perhaps utterly transform how you view the world.
This is one of the biggest commitments I have ever made to a book (1120 pages) but it was well worth it and at times called for more concentration on the language than I am used to giving. I'm so glad someone lent this to me and said, "This is something I know you will enjoy."
So detailed every page is a novel, every page an exploration of nature. And the best opening ever, full of magic and mysticism
It is a 'romance' novel as the title suggests. OK, a modernist romance novel that qualifies as literature but one nonetheless. It may be a genre of one. I can't give the book more than 3 stars because of the 300-400 pages of flab that JCP forces the reader to consume. Does it tie together in the end? No, but that's modernism, too. I was never so emotionally involved in a character or characters to care. There are, of course, bits of this that don't work, which is unavoidable given the ambition.
A magnificent novel. Justifiably called a classic.
It's epic alright!
Actually I didn't read it. It was on a recommended list, so I tried it, but I found the prose quite purple and tiresome.
But the Glastonbury Romance is a great read, especially if you like that sort of British esoteric thing, centered around the Arthurian legends and their link to mystical pagan practices.
And the meat of this book is the organization of an all-inclusive "new-agey" sort of fest to be held at the foot of the Glastonbury Tor, apparently an ancient dolmen with a significance comparative to Stonehenge.
So now we have a big rock and roll festival at the foot of the Glastonbury Tor every summer, and I have no idea how close its attenders get to the original vision.
Astonishingly detailed and quirky descriptions of eccentric characters.
The first paragraph sums up the sense of universal animism that pervades all of Powys's books and especially his main characters...
"At the striking of noon on a certain fifth of March, there occurred within a causal radius of Brandon railway station and yet beyond the deepest pools of emptiness between the uttermost stellar systems one of those infinitesimal ripples in the creative silence of First Cause which always occur when an exceptional stir of heightened consciousness agitates any living organism in this astronomical universe.
After speaking to Esther de Waal, I'm convinced that no one reads this book any more; which is a pity.
It's a long read, but the characterization and the sheer love of everything Celtic makes it compelling.
If anything was needed to remind us that Celtic spirituality is not 'environmentally aware', but is obsessed with twilight and death, this is the book.
The landscape is a fantastic background to the fantastic story of a Passion Play which is the culmination of the book; life/death/resurrection are all played out in a tension that is entirely dependent on really good characterization of real people.
This book has great unlikeable characters that range from disgusting to repulsively whiny but are still great vessels for Powys' evocation of the infinite elements of the world.
This book did so many things for me that I can barely remember just one of them.
I was kind of amazed as I started reading it that it wasn't talked about alongside other books like Joyce, Mervyn Peake's Gormenghast books, and early British fantasy.
It has a grotesque, fantastic air (though no actual magic) to it that made me NEED to finish it as I thought it must contain some kind of alchemic super-truth and, overall, it did.
A hefty tome.
Can only be comfortably read in bed when you're propped up on the pillows with a mug of hot chocolate.
The author, after a long period of neglect, is coming back into vogue.
It is a sort of family drama but full of new-age-ish undertones.
As George Steiner says in the blurb, he's the nearest thing the English have to Dostoyevsky.
The effect is the same as well - it feels like a long slog getting through it, but when you finish you feel the cumulative effect as a sort of delayed orgasm and have a real sense of achievement, exhausting though the experience was.
I read this massive novel at a time when Glastonbury was emotionally important, which probably coloured my attitude to the novel. Cooper Powys wrote this with the aid of OS maps, so it's topographically as precise as it can be (& I think wrote it while in the States?). It's a great vast sweep of a book, with many characters (too many?). It comes in & out of print - if you're interested, get a second-hand copy. One for winter, with a crackling fire
I'm re-reading this. An all time favourite book of mine that occasionally I re-read alongside whatever I'm currently working on. At present I'm reading David Spangler and incarnational spirituality and RJ Stewart and the faerie shamanism and magical work. This is a good accompaniment to that and also it is so beautifully written. It's like coming home everytime I read the first page.
I read 500 pages and gave up because I did not like the characters.
