https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/887797.Ashenden
Maugham—both in this book and in the cosmopolitan atmosphere of his short stories—was a great influence on spy novelists in general and on Eric Ambler in particular, whose masterpiece A Coffin for Dimitrios would not have been the same without Maugham.His locales—Geneva, Naples, Paris, Basle, Lucerne, Petrograd—are efficiently and convincingly created, and provide a fine backdrop for Ashenden's encounters with many memorable characters: R, the enigmatic head of British Intelligence; “The Hairless Mexican,” a flamboyant agent employed as an assassin by the British; traitor and good family man George Caypor and his devoted German wife; “His Excellency,” an ambassador with a surprising past; Anastasia Alexandrovna, flighty lover and committed revolutionary; and Mr. Harrington, the forthright and foolhardy American seeking business contacts within the new revolutionary Russian government.In fact, there are so many different locales, so many colorful people participating in so many unconnected stratagems, revealing themselves in so many distinct conversations, that it would not be surprising if a reader concluded that Ashenden was no more than a collection of themed short stories printed in chapters to make it look like a novel.
This book consists of a handful of interconnected short stories about a British intelligence officer, Ashenden.
The stories are based on Maugham’s own experiences as an intelligence agent stationed in Switzerland working for the Allies during the First World War and then in St. Petersburg as an undercover agent with Kerensky in power and the October 1917 Bolshevik Revolution soon to take place.
Maugham has the ability to make a despicable person interesting, intriguing and kind of fun.
You should not like the person, but you do!In all of the stories, Maugham observes people.
Books and short stories by Maugham still to be read
What a gem this is!
Crisp prose, memorable (if somewhat exaggerated) characters, humour, poignancy and a subtle dig at modernist fiction make this book an absolute delight.
Knowing that Ashenden inspired the creation of fictional spies such as James Bond is an added bonus, even though Ashenden and Bond could not be more different as characters and Maugham and Fleming could not be more different as writers.
While I'm not that interested in James Bond or his creator, this work has only increased my newly discovered enthusiasm for Maugham's writing.
As a spy for the UK during WW1, MOM was based in Geneva. His cover - as a writer - was perfect and resulted some years later in this marvelous "memoir," also published as Vol 3 of his Collected Stories. In 1915 he was spying while writing a comedy, "Caroline," produced in London in 1916. His duo efforts are described herewith. Middle-brows like to put MOM down. Once you start reading him, you cant put him down.
The book is certainly not 'exciting' in the way that we have come to expect within the thriller genre.Each story is both a literary concoction and a moral tale of sorts in which the 'hero' is an observer out of necessity, with his own moral choices limited to a certain commitment and a sense of duty.As neither one thing nor the other, literature or memoire, the total leaves one a little dissatisfied but the parts make up for the whole.
3.5 stars ***2018 Summer of Spies*** Somerset Maugham was writing and living the life of the spy long before Ian Fleming or John Le Carré. His introduction to this novel lets the reader know that it is based on his own experiences, but shaped into a decent story arc, something that the author found lacking in real life.If, as in another review, I compare Fleming to boxing and Le Carré to chess, then I would say that Maugham is more like solitaire. Much quieter and self-contained. He’s maybe flip
Somerset Maugham was writing and living the life of the spy long before Ian Fleming or John Le Carré.
His introduction to this novel lets the reader know that it is based on his own experiences, but shaped into a decent story arc, something that the author found lacking in real life.If, as in another review, I compare Fleming to boxing and Le Carré to chess, then I would say that Maugham is more like solitaire.
Ian was definitely not a fan of Maugham, but I have to say that I am.
This was certainly a disappointment.This book was written probably way back in 1927 and it still echoes the colonial British supremacist mindset of the author.The collection has no flow and most stories end abruptly.Although,i must admit that I liked some of the stories-especially the vivid and poignant descriptions of love and doomed passion.All in all,I would say this book is passable.I haven't read any other books by Maugham but I have heard amazing reviews about The Painted Veil.
I was very impressed by this book.
Maugham's beautiful writing evokes the life of a spy and is based on his own spying experiences during World War 1.
Through a series of interrelated short stories the reader gains an appreciation of Maugham's spying experiences.
In the course of these stories, Maugham's protagonist Ashenden (a self portrait) gets to travel throughout Europe and Asia on missions where he meets a diverse cast of characters.
All the stories are good, and four of them really pack a punch (The Hairless Mexican, The Traitor, His Excellency, and Mr Harrington's Washing).
W. Somerset Maugham’s Ashenden, or the British Agent is an example of one of my favourite genres, the early 20th century espionage tale.
Maugham himself actually did serve in British Intelligence during the Great War and based these stories to a considerable extent on his own experiences.This book was the basis for Alfred Hitchcock’s very underrated 1936 film Secret Agent and it’s remarkable just how closely Hitchcock reproduces the tone of the book, with the same mix of black humour and cynicism, of innocence and cold-bloodedness.For anyone with even a passing interest in the evolution of the espionage story Maugham’s book is essential reading.
Somerset Maugham’s real life experience working for the Secret Service in WWI, this is a collection of linked stories about his fictional alter ego Ashenden.
While describing an agent, nicknamed ‘the Hairless Mexican,’ that Ashenden is asked to accompany to Italy, R remarks that, “he hasn’t had the advantages of a public school education.” Again, when Ashenden suggests that another agent has offered to carry out as assassination for money, R expostulates, “damn it all, we are gentlemen!” However, despite the various restrictions and general distrust of spying, Ashenden has a calm head and is entrusted with some very important missions.
Out of the social scene he uses his cover as a playwright to interact with his street runners – the poor and down at heel.Maugham was a spy during this war, spending much of his time in Switzerland and it is claimed, had he been in Tzarist Russia 6 months to a year earlier, he might have influenced the Bolshevik Revolution.The book is branded by Maugham and publishers as short stories, but really it is three novellas.
How Maugham managed to publish these, is a mystery – they are so thinly veiled from Maugham’s actual experiences, right down to the code name for the Head – R.
The flipside of the 007 story. Just as they say the real life of a policeman is about slogging away at a case, not being a lucky maverick, so Ashenden's life as a secret agent is mostly taken up with watching his friends and foes and trying to tell one from the other. Action, when it comes, is unexpected and feels as though taken from life. There are no rooftop chases or gun battles here, but rather touching character studies of the people who live and die in the world of espionage.
Mi è piaciuta l'ironia con cui vengono tratteggiati i vari personaggi e la capacità di caratterizzare le varie sfaccettature della loro personalità; da questo libro è stato tratto Amore e mistero (Secret Agent), conosciuto in Italia anche con il titolo L'agente segreto, film del 1936 diretto da Alfred Hitchcock.Ashenden (dietro cui si nasconde lo stesso autore) è un agente segreto consapevole dell'importanza del suo ruolo, ciononostante rimane una persona tranquilla che non perde mai la capacità di sorridere di sé e di quanto gli accade.
This is a collection of linked short stories rather than a novel, based on Maugham's own time as a spy during the First World War. Unfortunately the collection is unevenly written, sometimes brilliant but sometimes boring, and there's a lot of humour along the way which just isn't funny - to me, anyway.I should say in fairness that I do really like a couple of the stories, 'Behind the Scenes', which paints a vivid picture of sexual obsession, and and the poignant last tale in the collection, 'Mr Harrington's Washing'.
This book is based on his life as a spy for the British during WWI.
He is based in Switzerland, gathering information for the British, working with a core of spies who pass their observations on to him.
I do enjoy Maugham's observational ability, his clear descriptive powers and his knack for telling a story.
The incidents and people described all become very interesting, whether Ashenden is successful or not.
They are stories that don't necessarily make you think or don't have any great impact on the War, from Ashenden's perspective anyway, but they demonstrate his life and his thoughts.
Because this is a WW1 spy story, I have shelved it under thriller-suspense but it is not actually either thrilling nor suspenseful.
Ashenden, like Maugham himself, is a writer drafted into the Secret Service but his job is more one of observation than of danger or action.
He was concerned with the beginning or the end of it, perhaps, or with some incident in the middle, but what his own doings led to he had seldom a chance of discovering."Thus the book is more a series of connected short stories than a single novel.
Plot’s not always paramount, but thanks to Maugham’s style, most of Ashenden is a compelling good read that will uncover the demimonde of the early 20th-century and keep you flipping pages long after your toes turn to prunes.
Perhaps the best strategy for reading this book, the one closest to Maugham’s intentions, is to approach Ashenden not so much as plotted fiction as a series of character sketches on tenterhooks.
But even if, like many readers, you chose not to read all of Maugham’s stories, you owe yourself at least one long tale, one of Maugham’s masterpieces: ‘The Hairless Mexican’.
Very clever literary spy tale, built up out of shorter pieces and nominally drawn from stories Maugham heard or experienced during his own time with the British secret service during the Great War. Not all the tales are about espionage per se--- Maugham stops to spin out a long confessional story about a British diplomat's long-ago affair with a cabaret dancer and to sketch in the hapless and doomed attempt of a moneyed suburban American businessman trying to do business in Petrograd on the eve of the Bolshevik coup. Lovely characterizations, good eye for settings.
This is actually the first thing I've ever read by Maugham and I enjoyed it immensely. Maugham manages to tell a story with economy that Hemingway might appreciate, but without having to resort to proving how macho he is at the same time, a flaw that many crisply brief writers fall into often.
3.5حكي الكاتب الذي أصبح اسمه العملي " أشندن " عن عمله جاسوساً لبلده انجلترا أثناء الحرب، وكيف أن الكولونيل وظفه لإتقانه لغات عديدة ووظيفته ككاتب وجعله مراقبا لجواسيس آخرين و هو من يعطيهم مهامهم التي يكلفون بها، وكيف كان يفشل في العديد منها بسبب المساعدين له أو بسبب الطرف الآخر لكن في النهاية نجح في الإيقاع بخائن يعمل لحساب الألمان ..رواية بسيطة ومسلية وفكاهية أحياناً يحكي فيها الكاتب عن ذكرياته وطبيعة عمله أثناء الحرب.
A Brtitish writer becomes a spy during World War I. Semi-autobiographical.I really liked this. Why is it that I'm drawn to the most mundane spy stories possible? This is spying at its most dull, ordinary, and gut-wrenchingly terrible. The moment he realizes he's been used to get a man he likes sent to a firing squad was probably the most memorable for me. Recommend for le Carre fans.
Il materiale che offre per un racconto è scucito e infecondo: tocca all’autore renderlo coerente, drammatico e probabile.In altra parole l’agente segreto non ha mai una visione completa del suo compito.
È tenuto a svolgere solo alcune azioni che fanno parte di un disegno più articolato di cui non conosce la complessità né la motivazione degli ordini che riceve.
Pertanto lo scrittore che volesse narrare senza abbellimenti di sorta la vera vita di un agente segreto, scriverebbe un racconto insignificante.
Tenuto conto di queste asserzioni, gli episodi narrati da Maugham sarebbero, quindi, quanto più simili possibile a quelli reali.Continua su:http://www.lastambergadeilettori.com/...
The different tales take you on a journey of the playwright only known as Ashenden Somerville ( it is insinuated that this is not his real name) who has been recruited to be an undercover agent who can move freely throughout most of the European states without question.
We learn of the different sort of blacklisted persons deemed to be enemies of the British Empire, the nature of their deceit and how Ashenden serves his country by outing them so to speak.
I had a lot of fun with this book, I like that there are things to look forward to in a Maugham novel, such as the dry humour and the awkward politeness of a shy British man.
During the First World War, Maugham with his reputation of being a relatively known writer was sent by British Intelligence to Switzerland for a series of assignments. Ashenden, though cited as a work of fiction is almost Maugham's memoirs of that period. In his inimitable style laced with razor sharp observations, the stories in this collection somehow end up focusing less on the finer aspects of espionage and more on Maugham's favourite topic - the contradictions of human nature. To think that these stories were penned almost a hundred years ago but still resonate so well....
An espionage spy thriller, or a non-thriller, detailing the everyday life and absurdities of a British Agent in World War 1.
Maugham used his real life experiences to write a series of short interconnecting stories, that make up Ashenden.
Some of them are more captivating than others and part of the fun for me was trying to guess which aspects were based on true events and which parts were the fabrication.
This was a great start to a completely new author to me and though I don't think it gives me a real taste of his fictional writing style, it has left me wanting to read more.
Ashenden is a collection of short stories inspired by Maugham's work as a spy during WWI.
Even though it differs greatly from what you would expect of an Espionage novel I enjoyed it.
Even though occasions of racism and sexims can be found in this book, they are mostly not coming from Ashenden, but rather making him quite uncomfortable.
Ashenden also has social anxiety, which seems quite paradox when you remember he is a spy.
He doesn't pride himself on sleeping around like you might expect from a spy like James Bond.
His desire for a more interesting life than he's had leads him to accept spymaster R.'s offer of employment as the government's information messenger.
He becomes a spymaster on a lower level and handles both friendly agents and enemies with aplomb.
Maugham presents Ashenden's adventures in chapters much like short stories, which have the benefit of encompassing one plot as a comprehensible whole rather than allowing the various missions to become tangled, as they might have been in real life.
While Ashenden is truly the protagonist, one whom we root for wherever rooting is appropriate, he also has flaws and unwanted virtues (such as his compassion for enemy agents that he has been assigned to trap).
This is a rather dated book (World War I), but worth reading for the language and the time-capsule effect of the stories.
However, that made it a different kind of book, and it was nice with a slower read.The stories are fiction, but Maugham worked for the British Secret Service during World War I.
Even though most have no major climaxes, I think there is still a flow in them that, knowing the end, would disrupt the enjoyment of the telling of the tale.Chapter 1.
R. - In which we are introduced to a Colonel R., Ashenden's British Secret Service boss throughout the book.Chapter 2.
This is the book that started the spy genre.
Somerset Maugham, who actually was a spy in WWII, fictionalized some of his own adventures and recorded them in this book.
Although Ashenden is not an assassin like his fictional son James Bond (Ian Fleming got the idea for Agent 007 from this book) he is still an astute judge of human character and action and tries to fight for justice.
Another great thing about this book is that it does not contain many of the content issues that people have with James Bond and many of the other action stories.
The character Ashenden, loose on the Continent in various cities and hotels, feels autobiographical, and moreover makes the reader want to ask him to dinner so he'll tell more stories.
His voice is low-key, but the picture he paints are vivid: the alternate boredom and terror, patriotism and moral uncertainty, midnight angst and cold-blooded watchfulness of the spy.
Yes, it can feel a bit dated and classist...but still, the writing and the character will stay with me.
