https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19288043-gone-girl
And I am not kidding, for me the first half of Gone Girl was a PURE TORTURE to read.Amy Dunn disappears on the day of her 5th wedding anniversary.
I'd rather read about someone not necessarily likable, but at least worthy of my empathy, not waste my time on self-centered, spoiled, pathetic people who don't know what real problems are.
Granted, characters in Flynn's previous novels (Sharp Objects and Dark Places) are pretty pathetic and and at times revolting too, but I always felt some strange empathy towards them, not annoyance and boredom, like I felt reading about Amy and Nick's marriage woes.But then second part, with its wicked twist, changed everything.
They noticed I was so perfect when I was a little girl and so they wrote some vastly popular children’s books called The Adventures of Amazing Amy. You may have been given them to read in school, and you may have puked on them.
And now I got let go from the job of Amy’s husband because she’s disappeared.P BRYANTWhy am I reading this?OFF-STAGE VOICEIs it because you like to read popular thrillers from time to time to curry favour with the voters of your obsessional booky website?P BRYANTWell, really...AMY DUNNEI love Nick.NICK DUNNEI love Amy.AMY DUNNEAlthough he can be a bastard at times.
I did really like the structure, along with some of the zingers, and some of the saucier images, but that's about it.From the Kushner epigraph to the name checking of Noel Coward on page 68 to the use of Pygmalion as a verb 20 pages after that (a synonym for to tidy, apparently), Flynn signals that she aims to create that most perverse of marriages here: a literary beach read.
But in staging itself, very Amy-like, so carefully in opposition to the thing it hates, it of course does not rise above chick lit, it just becomes psycho chick lit.
The story of a missing wife gets so ridiculous and over the top that the ending could only be equally as absurd.Things I absolutely loathed about the book:using The Giving Tree as a verbredneck stereotypes like catfish gigging with dry cat foodrepeated mentions of having the emotional bendsrepeated mentions of characters having a vaginal smellpage 67 where "Nick got home just after four, a bulb of beer and cigarettes and fried-egg odor attached to him, a placenta of stink."the sister's name being Gothe book's smugness.Had I not borrowed the book, I would have stabbed the shit out of it with scissors.If you want to read a book about a miserable married couple, read Revolutionary Road.
This book was just way too much fun – and I mean that in a good way.
I’m taking a leisurely drive down the garden path of the story, when BAM – right in the middle it makes a u-turn and we are on the damn highway doing 90 miles an hour (commonly referred to as a plot twist).
Soooo many time I wanted to just take one little peek at the end to see what happens to Nick and Amy. But I didn’t.
I survived the heart pounding suspense and made it to the end of a very satisfying read.I must, must must check out more books by Ms. FlynnSee all my reviews here:http://bookaholique.blogspot.com/
The first person narrative meant being in the thoughts of 2 very sick people the whole book and it left me feeling yucky.
The author portrayed the minds of sadistic, narcissistic sociopaths making it a very dark book.
And for some reason, I actually didn't find anything that happened a surprise.
That made the story boring which may also have been because I didn't like or care about either of the unrepentant, unenlightened, and self absorbed characters.
It is not a satisfying read because there is no hope for these characters, no redemption, no justice for those murdered.
As I said: Yucky.
Quite simply, this is one of the best novels of the year. It's a thriller in the best tradition of Alfred Hitchcock and layered with brilliantly written characters; it's the kind of book that's nearly impossible to put down. The surprises and twists keep the reader guessing up until the final page, and my first thought upon finishing the novel was that I wanted to read it a second time.
Oh, COME ON.Everyone (and I do mean EVERYONE ) loves this hateful book? Kind of makes me weep for the future. It's not even all that clever. It must be the depravity of it all. Suckers.AND, If I ever read the words *fucking bitch* again it will be too soon.
For one thing, I think the second half is a big improvement on the first half and, though this is my least favourite book by Ms Flynn, I can see in some ways why other reviewers see this as her strongest work.Let me ask this question: is it possible to be objective when writing a book review?
But some of the same old ideas kept popping into my head while I was reading Gone Girl because I think this is the book that most showcases Flynn's talent for writing.
4.5I'm never getting married- I can't risk this
My Review: I HATED EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS BOOK FROM ITS SNARKTASTIC SMUG SNOTTY STRAIGHT PEOPLE TO ITS PLOT THAT MADE ME HOMICIDALLY FURIOUS.I wish only the worst commercial luck for it, its movie, its author, its publisher, its publicist, its director, its producer, its screenwriter, and its legion of woman and crypto-woman fans.Edited to add: See comment #3 below for a fuller examination of the sources of my discontent.*************************EXCERPT FROM AN ESSAY BY FLYNN at Powells.com"With a mother who's the definition of toxic, and a thirteen-year-old half-sister with a finely honed bartering system for drugs, sex, control.
Knowledge is power, and never more so than in an intimate relationship.What if your spouse knew you so well that they could anticipate your behavior in any circumstance, and thereby manipulate you without your realizing it?Gillian Flynn takes the common marital concerns about money, in-laws, and parenthood, and turns them into toxic waste in the case of Nick and Amy Dunne.
Amy is revealed through her diaries, and Nick narrates his experiences as he follows the clues in the anniversary treasure hunt laid out by his wife before she disappeared.
This book kind of reminded of Lemarchand's Box. Every time you try to figure it out, it draws you deeper in, and in the end, reveals the kind of depravity that seemingly knows no bounds.
I thought I had this book figured out so early.
This book kind of...
I could see myself, my boyfriend, my friends and their significant others, pretty much ANY relationship, in this book.
I thought, early on, "Oh, this is a story of how relationships go bad when expectations aren't met - when people change, and grow lax in their status quo relationship..."And it was, in a way.
They appear to be experiencing the normal setbacks of life during our recent financial meltdown: job loss, relocation, mounting debt, family illness etc.
Neither seems to be telling the whole truth, yet they both remain engaging.
Once the media circus begins we are treated to an updated The Bonfire of the Vanities with a touch of The Silence of the Lambs to keep us on edge.
Filled with humor and insight, and enough murder and mayhem to satisfy even the most jaded reader, it is a peculiar hybrid that is hard to resist.Here's an interesting article about the author: http://m.guardiannews.com/books/2013/...
*************** Summary: I loved it while despising it, how 'bout that? Oh dear, I'm caught between realizing that this is one of the most inconsistent plot-and-characterization-wise books I've read in a long time - as well as one of the most entertaining stay-up-all-night-to-finish books.  Hmmmm.This book unapologetically flew through the bestsellers and awards lists like a hurricane last year, being praised for its dark nature and unexpected twist and intricate plot (a.k.a. the reasons why I a
And one day, on their anniversary, Amy vanishes without a trace, with her disappearance looking like a result of a foul play, and quite soon Nick finds himself a prime suspect as all the clues somehow point in his direction.The story is told through alternating perspectives: - Nick of present time (we learn quite a bit about him being a "Nice Guy" who is drop-dead gorgeous and has serious mommy-daddy issues as well as a dazzling smile, a perfectly cleft chin and quite a few hangups about women.
(hide spoiler)]This dual perspective provides an interesting example of unreliable narrators - Nick's and Amy's stories clash, and we know one of them - or both - cannot be completely true.

every story will happily frustrate you with how slowly it doles out its answers.i was so super-psyched to read this one, and from the very beginning, i was hooked.when nick dunne's wife amy goes missing on the day of their fifth anniversary, the suspicion eventually comes to rest on him.
this is very much a spoiler, so if you are ever going to read this (and you totally should because it is incredibly gripping and it is a truly great read) don't click this little button, go do something else, please.(view spoiler)[ come on - what's not to love about this ending?
Gillian Flynn hands you a little black box.
Because yeah, it is a pretty standard box on the outside, and even once you open in up and start messing with it, sliding the pieces around and trying to fit them into place.
You can see the solution, just out of reach, but you suspect you'll have it soon.And suddenly, the last piece clicks home, and the box opens fully, revealing an wickedly clever design that you weren't even looking for.
The box is, you have to admit, a damned impressive piece of engineering."You can keep that if you like," she says.

Then a few weeks go by and you've gotten dumber, because in doing your damnedest to avoid reading said book, menial tasks have turned your brain to mush?Yeah.Gone Girl has gone to my "sucked" shelf.
I can't deal with lines like "She blew more smoke toward me, a lazy game of cancer catch," or "When I think of my wife, I always think of her head....It was what the Victorians would call a finely-shaped head." (Hey, Gillian, next time you write from a male point of view, try to remember that guys notice T&A and not the shape of a woman's head.
Frankly, I’m exhausted, and I don’t want to waste any more time or thought on this novel.I’m done writing now.Ana’s Take:(SPOILERS AHOY)Gone Girl is one of the most ridiculous books I have ever read, one that comes with an inordinate amount of hype and disguised as a “clever”, “dark”, twisterific thriller that supposedly deals with serious shit like “when a marriage go bad”.It follows the story of Nick and Amy’s marriage.
And the suspense of it all left me in a constant state of guessing — straight to its twisted end.Gone Girl is not a happy, feel-good love story with just a few bumps in an otherwise silky road.
If you're wondering why I thought the ending was so apt, here's my reasoning: (Although only click if you've read the book.
But, after all Nick and Amy have done, do they not BOTH deserve one another in the end?
▪	 Plot: A suspenseful search for a man's missing wife with tons of twists.▪ Writing: Impeccable.
Despite missing some of the texture and nuances of her first two books, this time out Flynn has offered up a bonafide page turner of the sordid, sensationalist kind that makes summer reading oh-so-sweet.
Trust me when I say, if you're only going to take one book to the beach or cottage this summer, it's gotta be Gone Girl.
But trust me, being manipulated by a master like Flynn is sheer delight.
Murder suspects of every sort and circumstance are tried first in the media and found guilty or innocent before the case ever makes it to trial.
This book was such a mindfuck and I've never read anything like it before.
Amy is that special kind of snowflake who isn't nearly as smart as she thinks she is, as there are people who see through her bullshit, but since she's a master manipulator and liar she is able to fool most rubes without the slightest question because she acts so sweet and above it all.The book and the film deviate in a few ways such as Amy killing Desi with a steak knife instead of a box cutter, a backstory with another person Amy decided to frame as a "stalker", and a distinct lack of Affleck peen (see the spoiler for the shocking pic).(view spoiler)[ (hide spoiler)]As for the writing, the voices of both main characters were awfully similar.
This book is featured on this week's Throwback Thursday @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...Nick and Amy Dunne are preparing to celebrate their 5th wedding anniversary when suddenly, Amy disappears and as the investigation unfolds, it appears that the marriage wasn’t as perfect as it seemed.
Others begin to wonder if Nick could be the perpetrator and the book will leave you wondering what really happened to Amy throughout.I loved this book, and honestly, I couldn’t predict what was going to happen because the plot was completely twisted.
To me, the characters were fairly unforgettable!I admire the way Gillian Flynn writes and I’m looking forward to reading more from this author.
I like dark and twisted stories.
It is completely unpredictable, it is dark and the characters are twisted.
The story pulls you in and you think that you know what is happening, you think you know the characters and then BAM.
She made me buy in completely to a certain idea of what the couple and the story was about.Issues of gender and economics are themes that Flynn touched on in Sharp Objects and she does that in Gone Girl as well.
So if you like dark, you like twisted and you enjoyed Flynn's other books then I suggest you read this.
I’m talking world class, fuck, I wish I could weave a plot so intricately, type of brilliance.
His vague allusions about what took place during the morning of said disappearance, his nervous and unbalanced mind, the surrounding cast of characters noticing his “twitchy” behavior; they only served to strengthen my belief throughout the first chapter that Nick had done something Bad. And then we have a sudden switch of perspectives thanks to the diary of Amy, his missing wife.
One of them is lying about the other, and oh boy, do you want to think it’s Nick.
You want Nick to be a murderer, because he’s a “bad guy”.
5 starsThe thrill is real. Had huge expectations about this book and they were all met. Exciting story, wonderfully written, had me at the edge of the seat all the time.Was it worth reading? - Heck yes.Do I recommend it? - Of course. A million times.Would I read it again? - Definitely.
Pardon my French but "Gone Girl" by Gillian Flynn is a fucking masterpiece!
Twist after twist after twist.
Flynn's writing is deliciously wicked.
Her prose is dark and demented but also beautiful, honest, and hilarious at times.
I was completely mesmerized by her writing style.
She's one of my top 5 authors of all-time.
Flynn's other novels, "Sharp Objects" and "Dark Places" are also worth checking out.
Both are brilliant and so fucked-up.
Some books are epic and I'm thrilled to say "Gone Girl" is one of them.
