https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26891429-the-city-of-mirrors
This is the third and final volume of his trilogy, so I won’t say much except that it is a worthy conclusion that still leaves possible room for further adventures in this universe.
Spanning over a thousand years, the novel takes us back to the origins of the viral outbreak and the man who will become Patient Zero, the first vampire, then zooms forward centuries to the human settlements that have formed after the apparent disappearance of the viral threat.
When the final battle arrives, humanity faces permanent extinction unless our band of heroes can unite and defeat the first vampire in his lair .
How can it be rated?!? Seriously? Simmer down folks.After waiting for years, I can say this was a fitting end and I enjoyed it thoroughly.
Great ending 💕
2014!!!!! What, you are kidding, right?! Forget about movie making and give us what we want... The feel of a book in our hands. You already have the outline, so sit down and write,write,write.
Bittersweet doesn’t even begin to describe it.I would have never guessed how huge of an impact this trilogy would have on me when I started reading The Passage.
I’m extremely glad I re-read the first two books before jumping into The City of Mirrors, though.
It all comes together in this book, and the way everything is connected is mind blowing!
It truly is an epic journey from beginning to end.The City of Mirrors is utterly breathtaking, and the characters and their fight for humanity are the heart of this compelling story.
The previous books in this trilogy were actually the first ones I've ever truly reread.
I'm totally blaming Edward Lorn..he started these chunky books and started posting status updates.
I sorta liked the first book even though Justin Cronin is the writingnest muttha ever.
I didn't love it, but there was something about the whole thing that drew me in and I couldn't stop reading.
I even posted in my review that I wanted to know what he was up too..I wanted more about him.
Kathleen's review is actually about the book instead of a ramble-fest like mine.
Her reviews are so good and she clues me in to books I've never considered.
11/17/15 We have a cover!!!! I can see light at the end of the tunnel!!! Update 9/1/15 From the author's facebook page."To those of you wondering when that ENORMOUS pile of paper called The City of Mirrors will become a hard rectangular object for sale on the shelves of America and elsewhere: spring '16, or so they tell me. Bless you for your patience and "I think it will be worth the wait," said Justin modestly.Yay!!!! Spring 2016!!! That's much better than December.Update Aug 2015: This is a l
Update 9/1/15 From the author's facebook page."To those of you wondering when that ENORMOUS pile of paper called The City of Mirrors will become a hard rectangular object for sale on the shelves of America and elsewhere: spring '16, or so they tell me.
Bless you for your patience and "I think it will be worth the wait," said Justin modestly.Yay!!!!
From the author's facebook page."A number of y'all are reporting that Amazon is saying The City of Mirrors will be published in December 2016.
I thank you all for your patience and will do my best in the coming days and weeks to get to your many messages.What the ever loving fuck?!?!
★★☆☆☆All right before I get to it, I should probably preface this review with an apology. By failing to reread the first two books prior to starting this one, I’m sure to have done this book a grave disservice. Especially considering it’s been more than three years since I last visited this series. But in my defense, the combined page count of said books is a staggering 1,300 plus pages! I fear my feeble arms (not to mention my feeble mind) just weren’t up for the challenge. Now for the review,
I know this was done in the other books, but here, once again, it just felt overused.– Burnt Ends are tasty, but I’m already stuffed – A three chapter, 50-page epilogue, with all new characters, and backstories, and more parties to attend, and drama, drama, drama.
Wow, you really don’t know when to stop, do you?– Party Foul – However the most egregious sin of all was (view spoiler)[that everyone gets a happily ever ending.
HUUUURGGEHH (hide spoiler)]☠ Last word – Look, I’m happy to finally be able to put a bow on the entire series, and it was nice to see Cronin tie up all the loose ends.
I think this is the first time I've really wanted a .5 option.Cronin's concluding volume in his post-apocalyptic vampire saga is a lovely novel.
He wants to write about families and the light within souls and the way that people can come together when things fall apart.
I thought of his brave, imperfect human characters, always wanting to be together, always hoping and loving and longing, making bad decisions and making good ones, but mainly acting from a need for connection and from a need to make a life with others, and for others.
Give the guy a break, he's writing a huge book no doubt, and I'd rather he got it right than finished it early. Patience, children, patience.
Or was it just something gathering dust in his desk drawer that seemed good enough to turn a 400-page book into a heavy 600-pager?Regardless, the notion of a 150-year-old vampire moaning about his lost college girlfriend is ridiculous, especially considering that his audience consists of a single person who grew up with only the most basic education and who wouldn't be able to grasp even the most basic concepts - things like tenure or airplanes or upper-class socioeconomic class.
I devoured The Passage, soon after I inhaled The Twelve and held my breath till the end of The City of Mirrors.
What made this such a great trilogy for me was how Cronin was able to draw me into the story with such a large cast of characters, and had me emotionally engaged, caring for them and rooting for their survival.
I would recommend reading all three books close together to really bond and see how these well developed characters grow and change in their fight to survive in such a terrifying world.All of Norma's and my reviews can be found on our sister blog.http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
The other major issues I had were to the ending of the book.The issues I had with the ending of his characters' stories are spoilers.
She prevented him from drinking it previously in book 1 to prevent him from becoming what Alicia was because "It would have made him like her(Amy)".
It was a disappointing end to a character I liked, and had been given the opportunity to live life again as a normal person.
(hide spoiler)]Other than this, the writing was good, but it didn't have the same number of heartbreakingly beautiful or sad moments as some of his previous books, which disappointed me a little.
This review is probably the hardest one I've ever written.
I know I've said it before but the man is brilliant, hand downs a master at his craft.
Words, my words, my simple non masterful words, can not do this series, this book justice.
This book was like a magical journey to another time and place that you get so immersed in, so caught up in that you lose time while in it.
It isn't like other books in its genre.
*ARC copy provided by the publisher in exchange for an honest review.*
All of the loose ends were tied up, every character's story was concluded (some not as happily as others) and this reader was left with a feeling of total satisfaction.I was completely engaged throughout by the constant bouncing between timelines and between points of view within these timelines.
The author handled it so well and there was no chance of letting my mind wander as I read.
Maybe I would have liked better endings for some of my favourite characters but given the situation that would have been impossible.
I cannot really say more without spoilers so if you have not read the series yet then do!
A return, that once it came, would come full force.“Sorry, we made vampires; it seemed like a good idea at the time.” ― Justin Cronin, The TwelveTo get to the ending, let's start with the beginning.
I wish Fanning's story would have been told at the beginning of this book, before we are re-introduced to all of the characters I have grown to love.
I liked seeing Michael and Alicia interacting again, Sara and Hollis, Peter and Amy. Then there is Caleb and Pim. They have a great story line as well.
“All stories end when they have returned to their beginnings.” ― Justin Cronin, The City of MirrorsThe ending became a page turner.
As I neared the end of The City of Mirrors, which is also the end of the trilogy, I started thinking about the point of this big story.
We humans are survivalists, but if we're going to go on, we need those most important of reasons to do so.Without these inherent story themes, I would have cried boredom after 500 pages (and actually did during the middle of this one, at least in part).
It was a good book, but I'll probably remember it least of the three.Best of The City of Mirrors: No doubt it's Zero's (Tim Fanning) back-story.
I have loved every moment of it, the writing is truly sublime, the epic and sprawling story utterly convincing and completely addictive every step of the way and probably the most important thing to say is that if you are a fan and have been worried that Justin Cronin could not POSSIBLY pull off a perfect and killer ending then fear not.
It is fitting that Justin Cronin calls it The City of Mirrors, for the concluding volume of The Passage trilogy is very much an act of smoke and mirrors.
This is because the story essentially culminated at the end of the last one, with the destruction of The Twelve and the disappearance of Amy.Therefore I was quite curious to see what type of rabbit Cronin would pull out of the hat with the conclusion.
4/6/2015Guys. I think Cronin lost my interest. I forgot a lot of what happened in the first two and they are MONSTERS. I don't really want to go back and reread.It's just been way too long.------------------------------------------------------EDIT AGAIN: 2015? 2015? Just... what? I can't even. It's LATE 2015 too. That is just cruel---------------------------------------------------------------------EDIT: THANK YOU JESUS.A RELEASE DATE HAS BEEN SET! It's only 233 days away!!!Ready to see some Vamps eat it-----------------------------------------------------------------It's 2014 and a date should be set for release, like, now!
My rating 4.5The book The City of Mirrors (The Passage, #3) is very well written and you can identify with the characters and stories we follow through the series.
By me the writer could shorten the book for at least one hundred pages, but who am I to touch his writing style.
Frankly, the whole series is a complex story and you must love characters who survive in a world where life does not mean anything.
Throughout the whole series, the question of survival is in the impossible conditions.
I am throwing in the towel around 15%. I was so excited when I was approved for the ARC of this book! But now some time has gone by and the long and short of it is I just don't care anymore. My apologies to NetGalley and to the publisher.
Sad stupite u Grad ogledala gde ćete prisustvovati konačnom obračunu.Zavrsnica je koliko toliko zadovoljavajuca, ali ono sto je napravio sa Prolazom jednostavno nije bilo moguce ponoviti.
Ali je moglo biti mnogo bolje.Voleo bih da Cronin napise roman/serijal koji bi bio u skladu sa Prolazom, bez ulagivanja citaocima, izdavackoj kuci ili kome vec.Mracan, a opet realan a ne mlak i komercijalan kao sto su bila Dvanaestorica.Ili Grad ogledala, koji je bio ni tamo ni vamo.Videcemo.3.5/5
Part II reviews the trilogy as a whole.)Part ISeries authors take note: this is how you write a finale.
As is true of The Twelve, Cronin’s descriptions in The City of Mirrors tend to linger, whether that’s spending too much time in characters’ heads or describing, say, a sunset.
; nevertheless, Cronin was admirably meticulous overall, and considering how many story threads, backstories, tiny details, and characters he had to juggle across three huge books, that’s simply stunning.
This isn’t “another vampire story.” Cronin developed his human characters as much as his monsters, maybe more.
Cronin plotted this trilogy from book one.
By the end of the book, we know what becomes of Alicia, Peter, Michael, Lucius, Sara and Caleb, and Zero.
And Amy. Each ends their story in a way that makes sense for their character, as it should.
I’m also not totally clear on why Zero was so obsessed with Amy. I have some ideas, but I’m not completely connecting the dots on that part.A beautiful piece of literary fiction, The City of Mirrors is amazing, complex, well written, and the characters will stick with the reader for days.
My anticipation deserves five stars!
(hide spoiler)] That's why I hate these crazy Christian manic pro-life idiots so much.(view spoiler)[I mean, Justin Cronin never bothers to show me Alicia's internal conflicts, nor her change of heart, nor her growing to know and love her daughter, but after this baby lived for only one hour after birth, Alicia is grieving like no tomorrow and is willing to join the baby in death instead of seeing the people who love her once again?
Countless people lost the love of their lives one way or the other but none of them become so selfish and fucked up that he would doom the entire human race!The ending...the ending............I was again speechless when I found Amy (view spoiler)[spending the total of 900+ years of her life doing some gardening in the deserted Northern America (hide spoiler)].
But basically, thanks to what I will go ahead and call Cronin's "fancy pants writing" (hat tip to my sister for that), I feel like he's convinced us that these books are better than they actually are.
And since these books are so classy, and written so fancy, he lulls us into thinking that there's no way that there could be a plot hole.
But again, frustration, because at times there were leaps over years and sudden bursts of magic that left the characters themselves shrugging over what had happened, in order to get to that great ending.
4.5The City of Mirrors, being the final chapter to 'The Passage' trilogy was a great finish to what I consider one of the better series/trilogy's I have read in some time.
Peter Jackson, Amy, and a viral known as "Zero" come to a final meeting in a culmination of chaos, horror, heartbreak and hope.I don't want to get ahead of myself in summing up the trilogy but considering I had to exert a lot of patience to get through the first book, The City of Mirrors is one of those conclusions where I did not want the story to end.
Still, after finding “The twelve” in my library, I’ve decided this series sort of deserves a second chance, took the book home, and, as they say, the rest is history.
“The twelve” got four stars, I really enjoyed it and the waiting for a grand finale started.“The city of mirrors” is a huge book.
(view spoiler)[ Imagine, the final battle, the boss fight is commencing, but the emphasis goes not on Amy/Peter/Fanning, but on buildings falling, water rushing, the whole city failing and dying.
“The city of Mirrors” is a really good book.
