https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158657.The_Road_from_Home

This Newbery Honor Book was totally engrossing and an easy fast-moving story.
Bojahlian’s book mentioned the same places in this real-life story.I purchased this book years ago for the Sonlight history/literature course I used for my youngest son (excellent program for homeschoolers, by the way).
But I hadn’t read it then because I ended up adapting the course for my son's interests and didn’t include the full roster of books in their syllabus.
It is written for young adults, but like any Newbery Honor Book (it received numerous other awards as well), it is worthwhile reading for adults as well.
I read this book because it is directly from my ancestors' experiences. Maybe not exactly the woman who tells this story, but my family fled Armenia during the genocide. Very heartrending to read the tragedies that befell Veron and her family. It hits very close to home for me, since it's about my people, and since this genocide goes largely unrecognized to this day.
I read this years ago, and it was the first I'd ever heard about the Armenian genocide in World War I Turkey. I don't remember it ever being mentioned in school. Kherdian's narrative is chilling and yet ends well, at least for his mother, whom this book is really about. Highly recommended for older children.
A good story, a true story.
I learned both about the Armenian death march to the Syrian desert in 1915, about the Treaty of Sévres, followed by the Great Fire of Smyrna (Izmir, as it is known today).
The reader follows with the author's mother through these terrible times.
This is a young adult book.
You felt it was a young adult book, and I mean that in a negative sense.
I believe this is dangerous in a young adult book.
I felt that one minute I was reading a documentary for adults and then wham it changed to a child's book with childish dialogue.
It is a true story that tells about the the life and adventures of Veron Kherdian who endured the devastating holocaust of the Armenian people by the Turkish government in the early 1900's.I gave this book a 4-star rating because of its rivoting plot and its message of hope, faith, and perseverance.
After enduring unimaginable suffering and pain at the hands of her captors, Vernon makes the following statement, "As time went on, it became clearer to me that what separated people - or brought them together - was the way they responded to their excperiences."Having married into an Armenian family, I have heard family members speak of the Armenian holocaust.
Kherdian tells his mother's memoirs of growing up during the Armenian massacres and the turmoil that World War I and continuing war between the Turks and Greeks placed upon even the exiled Armenians.
Genocide is a blight on our history, and it happens far more often than people in stable societies realize.
She was a remarkable young person, whose personality forged itself into determination and resourcefulness and somehow managed to keep its capacity for hope in a better future despite the loss of her entire immediate family, an uneasy exile and near-starvation for years, and a grievous wound.Still, Kherdian fulfilled the charge of his mother and her contemporaries to "Tell my story!" so that the memory of the crimes against them would not be lost.
I think this is an important book to read largely because no one remembers what happened to the Armenians anymore; it's not taught in schools.
But the quotations that begin the book -- the original decree from the Turkish government juxtaposed with a quote from Hitler saying that no one will care about the Jews because "who remembers the Armenians anymore?" -- are just chilling.The book is well-written, too, though, and Veron's optimistic character (in the face of so much evil) pulls the reader through.
The author did not make too much of the Armenian's faith, although this was (I think) the major reason for the genocide by the Muslim Turks.
In The Road From Home: The story of an Armenian girl (that's the title my copy was published with), David Kherdian tells the story of his mother's experience as a young Armenian girl living in Turkey, and how she survived the 1915 Armenian genocide.Kherdian writes in his mother's voice, Veron's voice, which is brought to life so clearly and achingly, Mr. Kherdian as storyteller seems to completely disappear.
But even living through these events, Veron fiercely holds on to what joy she can find, and hope.
The book is of special interest because the Armenian genocide is often not addressed in the schools.
I listened to the audio of this book and found it very interesting.
This is a book worth recommending to World History teachers who want to suggest books to their students when studying various atrocities in history.
Most students will have heard of the German Holocaust and Hitler's attempt to wipe out the Jewish population, but many will not know that Turkey attempted to do the same to the Armenians, not once, not twice but three times.
Yes, history repeats itself because it takes much courage and strength to stand up to Evil.Pair this book with Forgotten Fire by Adam Bagdasarian
I read this book when I was a teenager and I can still remember how it made me feel twenty years later. A powerful book about a horrible genocide that has been largely ignored for a century. This book is the only exposure I have had to the genocide of the Armenian people in 1915. Without this book, I might have never known and that is testament enough of its importance and power.
This story brings a new light to the consideration of current refugees from war and genocide.Because of the importance of the material, and the quality of writing, I would give this book 5 stars were it not for the disappointment of the ending.
She was a remarkable young person, whose personality forged itself into determination and resourcefulness and somehow managed to keep its capacity for hope in a better future despite the loss of her entire immediate family, an uneasy exile and near-starvation for years, and a grievous wound.Still, Kherdian fulfilled the charge of his mother and her contemporaries to "Tell my story!" so that the memory of the crimes against them would not be lost.
This book was so sad.
But it's also sad because, well, the events are sad and she keeps moving from this place to that, gaining and losing friends or family, and when she moves she has decisions to make that will impact the rest of her life.The ending was so, so sad because she can't look back - she has to keep going, keep moving, keep doing, and obviously it was the right choice or the son would never have written it.
(hide spoiler)]Good book, good writing, but sad.
I felt I had a home again, and friends—and I would no longer be forced to move from place to place.”“In addition to the girls who were forcibly taken or purchased by the Arabs during the deportations, there were many cases where mothers, realizing they could not feed their children, willingly gave them up to the Arabs…All these girls had been tattooed, either below the lip or on the cheek or forehead.
Like you, it is young and growing, but I am an old tree now that is bent, waiting to return again to the earth from which I came.”
(view spoiler)[The Road From homeBy: David Kherdian Young Armenian, Veron Karahissar’s Life was happy, she lived in peace with her family in Turky, Azizya.
They were, totally free, little did they know, everything was about to change.Veron's life was torn apart and thrown into the fire, when, still younger than nine, she and her family were forced from their home, their lives, even their families by the Turks and deported.
Veron went to live at an orphanage and found happiness their in spending time with other Armenian girls her age.
The Greeks attacked the Turks while they were in Azizya and Veron was injured, though not permanently.
I only wish this devastating series of events in world history was not so forgotten and unknown.
3.5 stars for the writing, rounded up to 4 for the importance of reading the book.The Armenian genocide in Turkey during World War I is one of the first systematic mass murders of a people group and one of the most hushed-up events in history.
An appalling thing about the genocide is that Hitler used it as a justification for his Holocaust: "After all, who remembers to day the extermination of the Armenians?" This book is the biography of Veron Dumehjian, whose story is truly horrifying.
To end this little piece, here's a current event linked to the past for you - Turkey trying to downplay the Armenian genocide.
I chose this book because my cousin recommended it and I really wanted to learn more about the Armenian Genocide.The book is about an Armenian girl named Veron who lives in Turkey with her family before the Armenian Genocide.
When the Genocide is put into action Veron's family is torn apart as they are lead on the death march.
to be honest I think that everyone should read this book to understand the violence and trauma that people had to endure during this scarring and tragic genocide.
However, I'm frustrated because despite it being a multiple award-winner, it could have been so much better - a truly great book.
I wish the author had kept in mind one of the first rules of writing - "show, don't tell." (See http://www.quickanddirtytips.com/educ....) Time and time again, Kherdian explained what happened to his mother during the Armenia holocaust and even used first person so that the reader could see it through her eyes.
After reading the worst book I've ever read, Armenia's Fingerprint: A Family's Fight against Genocide during WWI by B.
However, I wish it had been written by a much better author.
Veron's family are Armenians living in western Turkey at the beginning of the 20th century.
There was a long history of instability between the Armenians and the TurksThe Turkish government decided to get rid of the Armenian population mostly because of religious differences (the Armenians were Christian).
The Greek government declares war on Turkey and begins attacking.
And all before she was 15!This a biographical tale of Veron's life, written by her son.The biggest plus of this story is that it got me interested in a part of world history that we don't hear anything about in the United States.
There was blame enough for everyone to go around, the Armenians themselves for their own naivete in believing they could peacefully coexist even following the massacres of 1895 and 1909, and who allowed themselves to be lulled into a complacent sense of false security, the inhumanity displayed by both the British and French during the evacuations,The Greeks for their indiscriminate attacks, the Desert Arabs of Syria, the Kurdish rabble who raped slaughtered and pillaged the innocent refugees, and finally at the bottom of the dung heap The Turks of that time period who failed their test of humanity both in the eyes of the world and according to their own religion.This is a moving tale, but one that leaves a feeling of deep pathos in its wake.
More like 3.5 stars.Kherdian employs an interesting technique as he uses a first person narrator to 
The author definitely had the target audience in mind while writing this story; his tale remains true but does not enter into graphic or overly detailed descriptions of the horrors the fleeing Armenians faced.
It was inspiring to read how often Veron Dumehjian, the author's mother, found the good in her grim situations, how she discovered extended family members when she originally thought that all were lost to her, and how she attributed the perils she miraculously escaped and her life spared to a good and kind God. I admired the Armenian's deep focus on family, whether biologically related or through the close-knit relationship of friends.
He was confident that almost no one remembered.I knew nothing about the story of Armenian persecution in Turkey before I read this biography that David Kherdian wrote about his mother, but after finishing it, I wonder why.
This story, that starts with a simple picture of childhood in another time and place, left me with a profound respect for the "Armenian girl" who experienced an astounding series of challenges that make life as I know it seem trivial.
Now I know about a period of time and a series of horrific events that we should remember, but also something deeper.
Veron is an Armenian growing up in Turkey in the early 1900's.
But when the Turkish government begins rounding up Armenians to deport or kill, Veron and her family embark on a journey from which they may never return.
Through the atrocities she witnesses and the losses she suffers, Veron constantly tries to remain hopeful.
But she constantly wonders if her hope will be for nothing.
I knew next to nothing about the Armenian genocides that took place in Turkey, so this was extremely educational for me.
It was a truly amazing, well-written, educational read.Content Warning: Semi-graphic descriptions of violence, illness, and death
Based on a true story, this is an account of one young Armenian girl's terrible suffering at the hands of the Turkish government during and after World War I.
She was deported from her hometown in Turkey and forced to march with her family to Syria, because the Turks feared the Armenians would fight against their cause during the war.
Finally she returned home as an orphan, only to fall victim again, this time to the war between the Greeks and the Turks.
She then fled with a family to Smyrna where she was rounded up by the Turks once again with fellow Armenians.
I really enjoyed the story and finished it very quickly.
It was written more simply than I had anticipated, and it read very quickly.
It also piqued an interest in understanding the whole Ottoman Empire thing - I guess I slept through world history in school (actually, now that I think about it, I DID sleep through world history).
Anyway, once I started trying to find stuff out about it, I realized it was way more complicated than I could ever hope to understand.
I need a "History of the Ottoman Empire" for Dummies.
On the homefront, I'm schooling my youngest child in 11th grade.
We decided that we'd read some books together--who says you can't curl up on the couch and read in high school?
We're studying the 20th Century, and she'd never heard about the Armenian Holocaust.This is the memoir of Veron, a young girl growing up in Turkey before World War I with her family.
As the war approached, the Turks rounded up the Armenians and marched them into the desert.
If your child has learned about the Trail of Tears, then they should be able to handle this book.
To have a son write your story so eloquently has to be a truly special thing for the mother and son.
David Kherdian writes beautifully about his mother's experience during the Armenian genocide - I wish he had followed her a little bit further, just to satisfy my needs, but we are left to assume good things transpired.
If you are interested in reading about the Armenian genocide, this book shares so much and paints vivid pictures of what it was like from the view of a young girl who was so innocent, but suffered through things I hope my daughter would never have to deal with!
