https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6628.The_Big_Over_Easy
Nursery rhyme characters, mythological and legendary literary figures, blue aliens and even anthropomorphized plot devices all exists side by side with humanity in a mind-blowing bouillabaisse that Fforde makes work extremely well.
For example, in a satirical poke at the mass media culture, one of the foundational premises of the novel is that detectives work cases not only to catch criminals, but also to do so in a way that makes them marketable as TV and magazine fodder.
'You speak baby gibberish?' asked Jack.
(It took me almost halfway through to dredge up the fact that Jack’s tendency to accidentally off “unusually tall people” was a reference to Jack The Giant Killer.)4 Other Stories/Tales/Myths Referenced in the Book1.
“I’m sure I’m missing about 25% (and possibly even more) of the jokes and references in this book.
Therefore, I’m sure the three possible reactions to this review are:* “This book sounds aggressively silly and whimsical and that is not my cup of tea at all!”* “I need to read this immediately!”* “What the heck took you so long to read Jasper Fforde, Jenners?
Jasper Fforde is just so much fun.
His books are sorta like beach reads for book nerds.
Also I saw him read in a small bookstore in SoHo a couple of years ago and he is hilarious.
He talked about how he and his kids play games in supermarkets where they put really incongruous and semi-embarrasing things in other people's shopping carts (I think he called them 'trolleys' because of course he British or maybe Austrailian?), like adult diapers for young pretty girls or whatever.
Anyway, the Thursday Next books are in my opinion much better than this series, but that won't stop me from reading everything he writes.
Jasper, please be my friend?
07/15: Finished it today.
So damn funny, if you like puns and referential literary humor and British mysteries.
Simultaneously a romp (yes, a romp!) through nursery rhymes and fairy tales, while sending up the ridiculousness of both old-school murder mysteries and modern-day police procedurals.
Recommended to anyone who likes mysteries and fairy tales.
Can't wait to finish.
I have laughed out loud several times and giggled many times more.07/12: I have only read the first chapter of this, and I am already in love, purely because of the pun involving the history of Reading.

Jasper Fforde, lover of slapstick and absurdity has another winner with this series of Nursery Rhyme crimes.
Many of your favourite nursery rhyme character will appear in this humorous tale of the demise of big egg and womaniser Humpty Dumpty who fell off a wall - or was he pushed or shot or drugged or poisoned?
With his side kick Mary Mary Jack sets out to investigate the sudden death of Humpty Dumpty, along the way interviewing his neighbour Willie Winkie, Giorgio Porgia, a corrupt criminal and Tom Thomm, son of a flautist.
This may be my next book club recommendation.
I normally avoid mysteries but I highly recommend this one.Despite the dry and everpresent humor, it still wasn't hard to come up with my favorite paragraph:  ALIENS BORING, REPORT SHOWSAn official report confirms what most of us have already suspected: that the alien visitors who arrived unexpectedly on the planet four years ago are not particularly bright, nor interesting.
Jasper Fforde is a master and he has done it again with this book. I couldn't put it down.
Just about every half-remembered nursery-rhyme character makes an appearance: The Three Little Pigs, Rumplestilkin, clues such as an auburn, 28-foot long human hair -- along with more about podiatry than you really want to know.
Anyway, "The Big Over Easy" has all the exuberant, clever silliness that I love in Jasper Fforde -- he's in top form here.
The Thursday Next literary-detective schtick was wearing a bit thin, so I was happy to see him start something fresh.
If you've somehow missed Fforde's literary-fantasy extravaganzas (The Eyre Affair, et seq.), Over Easy wouldn't be a bad place to start -- though you'll miss all the insider links to the Thursdayverse.
Having really enjoyed, “The Eyre Affair,” I was looking forward to reading this, the first in the ‘Nursery Crimes’ series.
DS Mary Mary transfers to Reading Central Police Station, hoping to work with her hero, DCI Friedland Chymes.
However, Mary Mary finds that, rather than working with Chymes, she has joined the Nursery Crime Division.
Heading the team is DI Jack Spratt, who has just failed to convict the three little pigs for premeditated crimes against a wolf (it takes a long while to boil a huge cauldron of water…).Into this world of upside down nonsense we follow Jack Spratt and Mary Mary as they investigate their latest case.
This was hard for me to love at first.
I knew it was trying to be funny, but I kept taking it too seriously.
Previous to chapter 16 I was prepared to write this review: "Didn't like it as much as I wanted to." After my husband explained the nursery rhyme that was meant to be the heading to chapter 19, I lightened up and found myself laughing as I had hoped at the beginning.
It's a bit like a Monty Python movie...
the first time it just seems like stupidity...
but then you find yourself laughing when you look back on it.
If you’re more wired than I am to appreciate big doses of cute-clever, this is a better than 3 star read.
There is a story woven into the cute-clever.
And Fforde is an able and creative story teller.
I enjoy the Thursday series, which is plenty imaginative.
With this nursery rhyme (for adults) series he has gone beyond my appreciative capacity.
I admired what he did here more than enjoyed the read, but I fully acknowledge that this is truly down to reader taste rather than writing quality.
Detective Jack Spratt heads up the Nursery Crime division at the Reading police department, and when Humpty Dumpty is found dead at the base of a wall, shattered into a thousand pieces, the case is clearly his and just as clearly suicide.
But Jack, along with his new partner Mary Mary, soon finds it was murder, and ends up fighting not only the suspects, but his own department, to solve the case.I'm generally a fan of Jasper Fforde's books no matter what he writes, and this was no exception.
In no way was I expecting this novel, a mystery about the death of an alcoholic, womanizing Humpty Dumpty, to remotely resemble great literature.
Fforde suffers from an acute case of cleverness overload--every sentence reads like he's trying way to hard to be witty.
Plus, while normally I love contemporary literature that rewrites fairy tales or folklore, in this book it felt like a cheap gimmick.
Instead of drawing on nursery rhyme characters to produce social or cultural commentary as to how these figures function as modern myths, the "nursery crime" device seemed intended solely to throw in as many familiar characters as possible so that readers would feel smart when they caught the references.The mystery wasn't particularly interesting or original, and I laughed maybe twice over the course of the book.
I reread it as part of my book club, but in the intervening years, the distance gave me some perspective that let me recognize or enjoy a few more jokes: * Charles Pewter, of The Diary of an Ordinary Man shows up in the book, with a couple funny jokes about his house.
* My book club really liked this book.
* The book pokes fun at a number of detective sub-genres, the least prominent of which is the hard-boiled genre.
And the first victim is an egg, so hard-boiled seems the most apt genre.
In case you were worried: No, Jasper Fforde has not run out of weird, twisted things to do to defenseless Literature.Jack Spratt, his second wife, and their five children (two his, two hers, one theirs) are living happily in Reading, England.
Instead she finds herself working with Jack—not even a member of the Guild!They quickly find themselves investigating the death of one of the many nursery characters residing in Reading, Humpty Stuyvesant van Dumpty, former teacher, millionaire, philanthropist, ex-convict, and egg about town.
He’s the type of storyteller who can spin a ludicrous tale with a straight face, and have even the most sceptical listener wondering if perhaps, just perhaps, there’s a measure of truth to his story.Humpty Dumpty is an egg.
Fforde tells the story straight — it’s a police procedural with nursery rhyme characters.
There’s a CSI team, a medical examiner, forensic evidence, clues and red herrings, unexpected confessions, jealousy, subterfuge, lies, and enough straight-faced satire for any three books.Fforde’s writing is hilarious — effortlessly so, it would seem — but this is so much more than just a comedy.
It’s one of the best mystery stories I’ve read in quite a while.
I've found Jasper Fforde's books generally fun/amusing.
There was nothing I'd point to that was wrong with the book, although being familiar with his writing, I wasn't terribly surprised by the tone, form, style, etc, etc.
While there has to be a plot, it feels very much like the plot is there to contain the puns and references, not really for its own sake.It's easy to read and fun; I'm not sure I'll ever reread it.
I found Thursday Next more compelling -- it helps that I adore Jane Eyre, and I wasn't used to Fforde's style then.
Cute little “nursery rhyme” of sorts.
While I really enjoyed this as another of Fforde's puntastic romps, I didn't really feel like it stacked up to the Thursday Next or chromatics series.I enjoyed it well enough, but the perspective shifts were sometimes jarring, and, at the end of the day, it read more like any other police procedural novel, with nursery rhyme puns.
While those puns certainly added to my enjoyment, it didn't make up for all the other ordinary elements within the book.Also, the book felt a lot like it was cramming a lot of elements in.
In the Nursery Crime novels, nursery rhyme characters are "real", and there is a division of the police that deals specifically with crimes involving nursery characters.In this first book of a series, Humpty Dumpty fell off the wall and shattered into bits.
This is a case for the under-appreciated Nursery Crimes Division of the Reading Police Department, headed by DI Jack Spratt, aided by DS Mary Mary, and Constable Ashley, a Rambosian alien who thinks in binary numbers.I really enjoyed the sly humor and references to the nursery characters.
I also enjoyed getting to know Jack Spratt and Mary Mary and witnessing their evolving work relationship.
This is one of the weirdest books that I have ever read, but I really liked it.
You definitely have to have an appreciation for satire and knowledge of obscure nursery rhymes also helps (Solomon Grundy was a nursery rhyme before he was a comic book villain).
This book combines hardboiled mystery novels with nursery rhymes, all while poking fun at the mystery genre, characters and scenarios that inspired it.
I really enjoyed the literary references and the mystery itself is pretty good with plenty of twists.
It does seem pretty ridiculous at times but once you embrace that it's a really good story.
This is one of the best, funniest books I have ever read, and I'm not exaggerating! Jasper Fforde has brought fairy tales to life, and the world is so much better with them in it! I recommend this book for absolutely everyone; it's a fairy-tale, but one written for totally, smart serious people.
This is terrible. I abandoned it. It was so boring that I forgot what was going on. DO NOT READ IT!!!
Granted, it's great that he readily continues on with the investigative flow once he finds out that there's more to the story than he'd thought, though.Did anyone else get a sense of dramatic cliff-hanger after the end of each chapter when a new reveal was announced?
It's extremely silly some of the things that are narrated, but at the same time, in a way makes perfect sense.I wish that some of the characters DID stand out a little bit more, but I feel like the book was so focused on introducing the world of the Nursery Crimes that it kind of sacrifices some character development.
I adored this book.
So clever and funny, and I'm sure I missed quite a few references, so I bet it is even funnier than I realize.
This is an impressive intermingling of a mystery novel and a nursery rhyme universe.
And perhaps even more interesting than them sifting through a sea of nursery rhyme characters to solve the mystery, is the fact that in this world crime has been reduced to literary entertainment.
It's not just an interesting premise for this story, but a real statement about modern media and the tendency to reduce crime to mindless entertainment.
Again, just a really fun and creative novel.
DNF at p. 162 - Perfectly fine, but forgettable. Decided to let it go and focus on other things.
It's a lot more methodical than I would have expected, given the zany nature of the story, but what we have here is an actual fairly detailed step by step investigation and it's both a great thing and the biggest flaw of the book.
The Detective Guild is insane, Jack is a fun and complex character and Dumpty and his story is deep.
Good characters are found here in a entertaining world.I really enjoyed the book, I think anyone who wants to laugh and enjoys new takes on classic characters will enjoy the book a great deal.Onward to the next book!
In this first book of the "Nursery Crime" series, Detective Jack Spratt is assigned to look into the untimely death of Humpty Dumpty.
In a glowing tribute, the editor of Amazing Crime declared, "From humble beginnings to towering preeminence in the world of mystery, the 'locked room' plot contrivance will always remain in our hearts." DCI Chymes then gave a glowing eulogy before being interrupted by the shocking news that the 'locked room' concept had been murdered--and in a locked room.
Unfortunately, the book fell flat and I ended up abandoning it a hundred or so pages into it.The story wasn't as clever or witty as I thought it would be and the characters were not very compelling.
But generally, the story came across like the author was either trying too hard to amuse or laughing at his own cleverness as he was writing.I found myself easily distracted and all too willing to put the book aside to move on to other things.
I really wanted to love this book, but I just couldn't even muster up a like.
