https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1272176.Mr_Galliano_s_Circus
I loved this book as a child and when I recently came accross this copy decided to give it a reread.
It was originally printed in 1939 and as such one must look at it through the eyes of the time.
Having said that, I still enjoyed rereading it.
Back at the time it was written, two pounds for a weeks work was considered generous.Within the story there are strong demonstrations of kindness and repayng bad with good.
These are still good lessons for today.
At times Blyton went a little overboard with her use of repetative words, but the story is geared to the Young.
Jimmy's Brown's father, a carpenter, is out of work.
Jimmy - who, I suppose, is about ten - loves animals, and spends most of his after-school hours hanging out in a circus ground, helping where he can.
When the odd-job man disappears, Jimmy's father is offered a week's work, and then invited with his family to join the circus full-time.
however, as a child these concerns didn't bother me.Then most of the book is about life in the circus as the Browns settle in and make friends.
Mr Galliano's Circus was one of my favourite Enid Blyton books (the other being The Secret Island).
New places where you could shine and excel and be rewarded/recognised for your talents and hard work.Mr Books' favourite Blyton as a young boy was The Adventures of Pink-Whistle.
He spent his time doing good deeds to help others.'Nuff said!Rereading Mr Galliano's Circus at 48 was almost just as much of a treat for me as it was when I was eight.Even as a child, I knew Blyton was writing fantasy.
Even when, or especially when, the story seemed rooted in everyday life.Mr Galliano's circus is a dream place to live and work.
Sebuah penggambaran kehidupan di rombongan sirkus.Cara Enid Blyton menceritakannya dengan berganti dari narator, lalu sudut pandang salah satu tokoh, kembali jadi narator, sangat menarik.Dan aduhhh, Mbah Enid itu suka banget menceritakan tentang makanan.
Ga lupa, waktu Sammy melarikan diri juga sempet-sempetnya ada adegan makan segala.
>.<Lah kok gw jadi cerita tentang menu di dalam cerita yah?Ini cerita tentang seorang anak biasa yang akhirnya menjadi tokoh terkenal di sebuah sirkus.
Akuilah, waktu kecil dulu, kayaknya enak gabung di sirkus.
Jalan-jalan trus, makan di udara terbuka, pemandangan selalu berganti..
Setidaknya itu dulu yang kurasakan.Sangat bagus, sayang anak gw masih suka cerita komik alias cerita yang masih banyak gambarnya..>.<
Salah satu novel koleksi awalku (nomor urut 46 di perpustakaan pribadi), jadi sah saja kalau pernah jadi favorit dan sering dibaca ulang pada masanya (karena koleksi masih sedikit sih...)Asyiknya baca buku ini, kita bisa berkhayal seolah-olah kita menjadi bagian dari keluarga sirkus Pak Galliano, sama halnya dengan tokoh utama novel ini, Jimmy Brown, yang tadinya anak biasa-biasa saja, terus jadi ikut rombongan sirkus karena ayahnya ditawari pekerjaan oleh Pak Galliano...
This just had to be the first book I reviewed here. As a child, it was the first book I read cover to cover in one sitting. It's a beautifully-written story, as we expect from Enid Blyton, and very difficult to put down. Even as an adult reader, while I grow very fond of the main characters, I still can't help but feel envious of them. Fortunately there are more circus stories to allow the fun to continue.
In all fairness I was constantly agitated that I did not have my usual thrillers in tow- but these books are so important!
As an adult reader, I was constantly worried about one particular idea in this book- the circus itself.
How could I possibly give this to a little kid and tell them to read it when I know circuses can be terrible places for animals?
All my worries were put to rest by how the Author who constantly reminds the readers about being kind to animals.
Two and a half stars for the first volume in the Circus trilogy.
Perhaps the story is more developed in later volumes, but for now most of the characters--particularly the adults--are two-dimensional and the story is very superficial.
At least the main character isn't a total Gary Stu; he's told that he started too late to be a good acrobat or rider, so he has to be content with being an animal trainer.
The main message is "be kind to animals", which is all well and good, but the situations are rushed and superficial until almost the end of the book.
Made me want to run away with the circus and become a writer. I didn't run away with the circus!
La historia trata sobre un niño, Jimmy, que se emociona cuando el circo llega a su pueblo, pero lamentablemente no tiene dinero para ir, su padre es carpintero y no tiene trabajo.
Pero la suerte está del lado de Jimmy, y todo cambiara cuando a su padre le ofrecen el trabajo de carpintero en el circo.
En ese momento Jimmy aprenderá cosas geniales, e incluso..., quizás, forme parte del circo.El libro está dirigido a niños de 8-12 años, pero puede ser leído por todas las edades.
My first introduction to Mr. Galliano's Circus was traumatic for all involved.
I started reading at after my sister received it for her birthday party.
I couldn't stop reading it, despite the fact that we were taking a road trip, and proceeded to vomit (orange juice i believe) all over it.
For years after, in spite of the permanently stained pages that always made me shudder, I reread it many many times, totally charmed by Lotta, Jimmy and of course the memorable cast of animals--Lucky, Punch, and Sammy, among others.
Enid Blyton sure knew what kids craved--adventure stories at the circus!
This book was given to me by my Nan when I was very young, and from the moment that I picked it up, I was hooked. Every adventure from the moment Jimmy joins with his family, every character that he meets, his encounter with a thief and his efforts to train a lovely little dog into a brand new circus act just enthralled me and I read this one over and over. A wonderful book by Enid Blyton, and one that I would happily read again even now.
I re-read this book yesterday. I must admit I'd forgotten, or never realised as a child most likely how very non-PC this book is. No wonder people are up in arms about Enid Blyton's writing. She's got two dogs in the book called Darkie and Nigger and that seriously was terrible. I laughed because I couldn't believe she wrote something that offensive. I'm a woman of colour, born in Sri Lanka and living in the UK. I wonder what she would have made of me and my version of multicultural Britain.
This book was my childhood. I've read it more times than I care to admit and I still simply adore it. Yeah, it's fantastical and has an unlikely plot but who cares? It's a children's novel, written by Enid Blyton, a woman who wrote about a wishing chair and four children (and a dog) who solve mysteries every time they are together. In my personal opinion, this is the epitome of what children's books should be like. Cute, happy and magical enough to take you to another place.
Abs loved Enid Blyton books as a kid, and the Circus Series was in my top 3. Characters you could totally see yourself being or being bff's forever with. Convinced I was going to join the circus after reading these books and would have gladly if it were true to life....somehow I doubt it. But abs loved it and it's firmly saved onto kindle and the original will stay on my bookshelf forever. Bravo Enid
This was a childhood favourite of mine, I absolutely adored it growing up!! The excitement I experienced when I saw the complete 3 story edition of Mr Galliano's Circus in a book store was crazy. I bought it then and there and headed straight home to read it, it was still as wonderful, magical and beautiful as it first was!! Most definitely a favourite. I would recommend this book to everyone and anyone.
I haven't read this since I was about 10, but it was one of my favourite books as a kid. I guess it's recommending me this because I read Chad Hanna, which is quite a good recommendation for Goodreads.It's one of the very few Enid Blyton books I kept (Out of probably a hundred) and if you have kids around the right age, it's a good read. Yay circuses!
This book I found disturbing and unsettling as a child as it starts with a boy whose father ends up joining a circus for a living, giving up a settled life. Why I found this displacement and the adjustments to life in the circus by the little boy and his family unsettling as a child I didn't not know as a child. Now, I know it was a premonition.
This was always one of my fav Enid Blyton books. So exciting as a kid!! I wanted to join a circus soooooooo much. Love the whole series, and love reading them now to my kids (who get excited and transported too)
Kangeeeennn bangets ama serial yang satu ini!!Lupa dhe dulu bacanya tuh minjem bukunya temen apa baca di perpustakaan sekolah tapii gua suka ama serial Mr. Galliano ini, huhuhu..Di manakah dakuu harus mencari keberadaan dirimuu saat ini, Mr. Galliano?!
Classic Blyton- child who loves animals, circus. Some differences: main family are poor, working class. Typical prejudices: circus people are warm, loving but uneducated and untidy. A group of dogs are called nigger, darkie etc.
bau buku lama, bank makanan, serta petualangan seru dengan caravan dan sirkus!!!buku ini seru.. banyak pesan moralnya. Bahkan di titik-titik tertentu aku sampe terharu membaca bagian betapa tabahnya si Jimmy ini.
This book is perfect for little kids who like Blyton's books. I myself loved it.
I didn't like the circus books as much as others by Enid Blyton, but still enjoyed them.
It got better as we read on. Looking forward to the next two in the series.
love it love it love itttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttttt.
I read this book as a child, and now am re-reading it to my sons. I love bringing Enid Blyton's books to my kids.
Best book I read during my childhood...
I want to live in caravan & join the circus too!! ☆*:.｡.o(☆ω☆)ノ hahaha~ that's my wish when read it (^///^)
I loved this book as a child and read it over and over again while planning to run away and join the circus . I have now bought it for my own children to read
