https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227274.The_Memory_of_Old_Jack
Gorgeous, gorgeous, gorgeous.
Reading this book is like dreaming coherently--it just unfolds in front of you like liquid, with images so clear and so simple that you're instantly standing in the bodies of the characters--treading the dirt they walk on, breathing through their mouths...
It is a patient book, and you must be patient with it and trust its pace.
Wendell Berry is incredible in many ways, and this book is beautiful.
I will reread this book--I already cherish my relationship with it and the conversations it created with myself.
According to the narrator, that is not the best way to live; being fixated on the "distances of possibility" removes from the realities in front of you.The narrator offers a final critique through Jack's subtle shot at his son-in-law, Glad Pettit: "Had he not heard Glad already talking about what he might do when he retired?
The philosophy built through the discussion of ambition in this novel refuses to accept success in the world’s terms without qualifications: if success makes you reject the place of your origins and the people in that place, if success makes you blind to the realities of your present, and if success sets up as ideal a final escape from that at which you are successful into a retirement of leisure, the ambition that leads to that sort of success is worth rejecting.
When his writing risks sentimentalism it plants the emotion in genuine and mountainous truths such that one cannot divorce the emotion from the characters and places to which it belongs; one cannot hate it for cheap sentiment, for there is none.I say this to defend myself, for I (and other men I've spoken to) find Berry's work moving in the way only a farmer's writing can be.
How can books about such weepy things as family, love, death, dying, birth, and home-cooked meals bring words of praise to the lips of so many cynical men (for example, the manly mustachioed Nick Offerman, otherwise known as Ron Swanson)?Well...
Old Jack is a prideful and foolish person in some ways.
I have tried to read so many things by Wendell Berry, probably for about the past ten years, and I've never managed more than a short essay or a dozen pages of a novel before giving up.
It follows the reflections of "Old Jack," a retired Kentucky farmer.
Not in a way that I couldn't put the book down, but I just felt like I was right there with Old Jack, seeing what he was seeing, feeling what he was feeling.
I could go on and on, but I'll stop there.This book is definitely not for everyone, but I'm glad I finally was able to stick with a Wendell Berry novel.
Imperfetto, ombroso, fallibile... Wendell Berry ha generato un'altra Grande Anima
Yes, yes, yes. Each sentence is a jewel from this farmer/poet/novelist. Read it carefully and within a few days' time. Don't miss it if you value land, relationships, reflection, drama.
I believe this to be one of Wendell Berry's finest. In it, he recounts the memories of an old man at the end of a long and eventful life. A man who spanned a good bit of the history of the fictional community of Port William, Kentucky. As he remembers or greets different characters, he remembers some story about that character and each one comes alive for those few, brief pages it takes to recount the tale. I cried at the end, but they were tears of recognition of a life well-lived.
4.5 stars. Wendell Berry's writing is so beautiful and elegiac, it makes my heart hurt. In a good way.
I was realizing as I read this book how few novels slow my thoughts down and make me reflect.
As for why anyone should be interested in a book of an old farmer's memories, I'd say because Jack is so clearly asking us to evaluate our lives according to the long view, to put our effort into something that gives back - to work with hope, as he says, and yet not define ourselves by what we do or who we imagine we are, but by what we serve.
I agree with the reviewer in Library Journal that the chapter about Jack’s courtship of his wife is especially beautiful, and so sad: “He was misled not by Ruth but by his own desire, so strong for her that it saw possibilities that did not exist, and believed in what it saw.
Ruth too was misled, by him, by his foolish willingness to win her by indulging her misconceptions.” I am also fascinated by the way Berry handles race.
Confusing lust with love, Jack plucks from a distant town a wife, Ruth, taking her into a marriage doomed by misunderstanding to leave both lonely and alone for all the years they share the farm house.
We are introduced to Jack as a very old man who spends his days lost in memories of days on the farm, his marriage to Ruth and his times of both glory and suffering.
Even when you want to strangle him for his arrogance you can't help but forgive him for his humanity.
Another beautiful book by one of my favorite authors, an eloquent writing surrounding Jack who in his old age reminisces about his life, in particular his marriage. There is a common thread that explores not only marriage but relationships in general which also includes the relationship of these people to the land.
Recensione: http://bit.ly/2iJIs9C
This book is the story of Jack Beechum's last day on earth, and the story of his whole life.
Over the course of his last day, 92-year-old Jack drifts back and forth between keen observation of the present and even keener memories of the key events of his long life.
Wendell Berry is generally a leftist writer, but I found this book to be profoundly conservative in the old-fashioned sense of the term.
It portrays a way of life based on self-reliance and community spirit.
Not everyone wants to live in one small community all his life.
It left me with much to think about life."That a whole roomful of people should sit with their mouths open like a nest of young birds, peering into a picture box the invariable message of which is the desirability of Something Else or Someplace Else; that a government should tax its people in order to make a bomb powerful enough to blow up the world; that a whole country would attempt a civilization with the exclusive aim of getting out of work--all that is strange to him, unreal; he might have slept long and waked in a land of talking monkeys.
Berry’s novels always evoke a strong awareness and appreciation for the land, and also for the caretakers, the farmers of it. This poignant one tells how hard Jack worked for his land, to the exclusion of his family. It is another one to read slowly, and to savor the richness of his language and descriptions.
Reading Wendell Berry in January is comfort food that sticks to the ribs of my soul. I'm warmed by the steady grace he paints in a seemingly ordinary day or life. His heroes are those among us who aren't exceptional, just finishers who stay their course. The plot is no more or less than living true, which in itself is extraordinary. "The like of him will not soon live again in this world, and they will not forget him."
The Memory of Old Jack is a two-part love story; a love affair with the land he lives and works on and the lost love in his failed marriage.
Berry is beautifully poetic in his description of Jack's deep connection to the land.
Although it seems Jack was to blame for the failed marriage, both are guilty of withholding their God given role for marriage.Although this book is beautifully written and it helped me want to grow in showing my husband deep respect and appreciation, I wouldn't recommend it to most people.
What in another might be a maudlin seriousness is crafted by Berry into a heartfelt beauty.
Those of us so thoroughly urbanized that such a connection to the land is purely theoretical and largely romantic can nonetheless feel the urge, the deep need for such ties, and can realize in it a questing we all feel deep in our bones.This is not an inherently compelling book, though, or the best of what Berry has written on the subject of the fictional town of Port William, Kentucky.
There's a rhythm to the language that seems to follow the rhythms of natural things--seasons, rivers, harvests.Berry uses memory here in a couple of intertwining ways.
On the one hand, the book follows the memories of "Old Jack" Beechum as he reflects back on the eight-plus decades of his life.
While they build slowly, his courtship with Ruth and the episode with Will Wells take the book in surprising and heartfelt directions.However, Berry also mixes in the experiences of others in the life of Old Jack, meaning that the book is in certain ways a culmination of their memories of him.

This is one of my all-time favorite books, although it is probably not for everyone.
I just read it with a book group this time, and we talked a bit about Wendell Berry's unique writing style.
Everything he writes is like poetry, and as such some may find him a bit ponderous, maybe even opaque.
Nonetheless, I think this book is fascinating for its portrayal of one of the great themes in America, the tension between our Jeffersonian ideals and our lust for material culture.
It is also a poignant portrayal of a man at the end of his life, confronting death.
This little book deals beautifully and gracefully with some of the biggest and most divisive issues in modern american society. It delves into those opposing forces of the "getting ahead" and the idea of a sense of place and the deep sense of unease many of us feel at ebing pulled between the two.I agree with a review that noted, the respect Berry gives both his subject and his reader, which makes reading him a singular pleasure.
Once again, Wendell Berry knocks it out of the park. With flawless insight and remarkable brevity, Berry touches on everything that is important in human life (forgiveness, art, betrayal, family, love, work, loyalty, place, hope, redemption...) and draws out the connections and tensions between them all. On top of that, this is just a lovely story. Read it and read it again.
One of Berry's earlier stories of his Port William tales, this follows the life of one, elderly man in early autumn of 1952, as he recollects his life and yet is present in his now.Beautiful story, with some hard edges to it, that reflects on a life that had happened, the rapidly way that life and lifestyle diminished, and yet with a glimmer of a humanity that burns deep.
Wendall Berry is delicious food for the soul. Simple, deep and brilliant. This is my second novel -- first was Jayber Crow.
Wendell Berry has a way of taking what appears to be an ordinary, well-lived, life of a man in Kentucky and showing you the hidden tensions and pressures that are at work.
To borrow a metaphor from Andrew Peterson, they are like mountains on the ocean floor.Jack Beechum is nearing the end of his life, and Berry gives us insight into the memories he holds, even while that memory appears to be fading to those around him.
This book may now be my third favorite, not because of the enjoyment it gave me, but because of the glimpse it gave me into the emotional complexities of life.
Second reading.
I have nothing to add to the first six reviews that came up, all 5-star.
Wendell Berry as poet, novelist and cultural critic is unique.
Try to read several, or even all, of the Port William Fellowship novels.
Suggestion: make a table of relationships and approximate birth years and tuck it into one of the Port William books on your shelf.
If this is your first Berry novel and you liked it enough to look further, you might try next Hannah Coulter or Jayber Crow, both of which I've reviewed.
Basically, you can't go wrong with whatever your library has on its shelf
This is my first taste of Wendell Berry's rich fictional world of Port William KY.
The character of "Old Jack" is a strong yet flawed, deeply human old farmer who is among of the last of his generation.
Jack's life has been spent stubbornly fighting for his independence and for his ties to his land and surrounding country that he both loves and belongs to.
This tale is a wonderful incarnation of the wholesome and healthy philosophy that Mr. Berry espouses and lives out in his life and writings.
I am looking forward to more tales of this richly human community.
For the past few months, I've been working through Wendell Berry's fiction, which overall is just marvelous.
His novels and stories are consistently fine, but The Memory of Old Jack is just flat out the best Berry that I've read (I still have a few of his books to go).
Here's another way to think about it: When Wendell Berry discovered Jack Beechum, he discovered his richest character, his richest vision, and his richest art.
