https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131845.The_Cat_Ate_My_Gymsuit
Oh Marcy, could I love you more? This book helped me and a lot of other girls accept what we looked like and who we were. I especially like this cover (the one I own) as that is EXACTLY what I imagine Marcy to look like!
Historical context is paramount for full enjoyment of this adorably dated book was a fun read.
While I think kids might have some trouble with casual references to recreation rooms, records, women's liberation and push button phones.
The rampant McCarthyism and casual mysogny of Marcy's father as he chomps on a cigar while downing scotch and sodas seemed so fabricated as to be unbelieveable (althought I am actuely aware that it was not that long ago that his behavior was considered acceptable if not the norm).
A great book about kids learning to stand up for what themselves, those they care about and what they believe in.
This book is about a student named Marcy Lewis who hates school and she's one of the volleyball players in her school. In her classroom, no teacher have ever lasted in their room as a teacher because the students disrespect the teacher when they hate the teacher that's teaching them. Then this person who is ready to teach and

Aku benci Kepala Sekolah karena ia ingin memecat Ms.Finney, guru bahasa inggrisku.Membaca kalimat pertama itu, aku mengira Marcy ini tentu orang yang sering mengeluh, tidak puas dengan apapun, penyendiri dan mungkin pemarah..Setelah meneruskan membaca terbukti semua yg kukira di awal ternyata banyak yg salah..Mercy memang penyendiri, tapi dia bukan pemarah, dia pemalu..
Bahkan dia berpikir, Nancy, satu-satunya teman yg dimilikinya mau berteman dengannya cuma karena ibu mereka berteman..Keminderan Mercy mulai berkurang seiring kedatangan Ms.Finney, guru bahasa inggris yang baru di sekolahnya..
Bahkan Joel mengajaknya datang bersama ke pesta Nancy..Tapi kesenangan Mercy dan teman-temannya memiliki guru seperti Ms.Finney tidak bertahan lama.
I'm really surprised to hear that so many people liked this book - I am at a loss to say anything about it. I can't say that it was really terrible, it was just pointless to me. The characters were a little too basic and contrived - they are either good or evil, with no exploration into their viewpoints, backgrounds, or values. For a book that seems to be promoting understanding other people and accepting new ideas, it felt very one-sided to me.
-----3,5 starI LOVE THIS BOOKNggak nyangka bakal jatuh suka sama buku ini, dan kelar dengan begitu cepatnya pas dibaca. Ngalir banget ceritanya, dan nggak bertele-tele, meskipun ending-nya agak sedikit terlalu mudah. Pengen lebih greget. Tapi, cukup seru (banget) sihh...love it. Tema-nya pun oke. Asyik-lah pokoke!
Graphic and children's reviews on the blog typically feature two or three images from the book's interior, which are not reproduced here.Note that I don't really do stars.
To me a book is either worth reading or it isn't.
The kid starts out overweight (and yes, we get reminded of that routinely - so much so that it becomes tiresome and made me begin to resent her, which is never a good feeling with which to imbue your readers) and ends up overweight - she's just less focused on it at the end, which means she's less likely to do something about it.
One of the things that was of particular interest to me in this re-read is the attitude toward the issues of the day.
The attitude of the father - a sort of don't rock the boat - and his way of treating his wife and children seemed very negative to me.
The other thing that is of particular interest to me is the attitude of everyone about the MC weight problem.
In this book, the mother does some of the same things that annoy me so in people who try to "help" me lose weight.
Weight, before shyness, before reaction to being bullied, before normal problems of growing up (dating).
This book is so dated as to be antiquated (a teacher gets fired for being, essentially, a liberal feminist with ideas that students should...gasp...think!) but what scares me is how much, with the whole "no child left behind/teach to the test" mess plaguing our schools now is that what IS relevant is the idea of a teacher who challenges that and gets kids to think and learn...and gets punished for it.
Sometimes I think I learned how to teach from Ms. Finney.Just as an aside: There is a new trend of updating books from the 70s (for instance, replacing Marcy's push button phone with a cell phone).
Singkatnya, aku punya banyak masalah!Review saya:Ini buku bagus yang pernah saya baca.
Yang kehilangan rasa percaya diri gara-gara bertubuh gemuk dan berjerawat.
Selain dengan kondisi tubuhnya yang gemuk, yang membuatnya minder, ayahnya seringkali membentaknya.
Karena ayahnya merasa telah bekerja keras, menganggap Marcy tidak berguna karena tubuhnya yang gemuk, dan lainnya.
Keadaan ini membuat semua murid malah semakin kompak, begitu juga dengan orangtua mereka.
Dan ketika berusaha membela Ms. Finney, Marcy justru menjadi sangat dekat dengan Joel, yang sama sekali tidak peduli dengan tubuh gemuk Marcy.Buku ini positif buat dihadiahkan ke cewek-cewek yang bermasalah dengan rasa percaya diri.
I read this book when I was about fourteen and I remember really liking it, but had lost a lot of the details.
The volleyball / dangling participle scene and wishing I could have gotten out of phys.ed.
And with the clarity of 30 years growth, I see that Marcy's father was terribly abusive and Marcy's poor self esteem and anxiety were sadly, tragic and all too common.
Reading this book, in some ways, must have been like reading my own diary.
Thank goodness the teenage years do not last forever, and whoever says that high school was the best time of their life is lying.
(3.5) This was a nice quick "modern classic"-- I don't think I read it as a kid, but I could have.
Though a lot of the story holds up now, 30+ years later, a lot of it is dated (Miss vs.
I'm not sure who I would give this book to-- it is written at a pretty low reading level (4th-5th grade), but features a 13 year old 9th grader who at one point, is offered and accepts a alcohol.
I have a feeling this reading level/age appropriateness disconnect has to do with the time it was written.
Depressing yet funny all at once, this novel is one that brings out all the things that outcasts and introverts despise in school. Marcy is a character that readers who have ever felt different or rebellious can easily identify with, yet she isn't superficial or generic. Her situations are at times sad but at other moments humorous.
This book will always have a special place in my heart. I was twelve when I read it and completely identified with the main character and her struggles. I also loved the teacher in the story, who helped inspire me to be a teacher (at least for a little while). I still recommend this book to preteens and teens who feel they just don't fit in.
This book meant SO much to me when I was in fifth grade. I actually remember reading it while walking home. I mean, I distinctly remember walking and reading at the same time.
I have complicated feelings about this book.
It's not perfect; the characters don't end up in a great place by the end.
The people who are cruel don't get their comeuppance.
People say sexist, misogynist, and fatphobic things.
It's set in the 1970s, people were more in-your-face than now (in some ways).
But by the end, things are better in many ways in our character's life.
She is feeling more confident in herself and her ability to see herself getting older.
And I will forever be grateful to this book for making me feel less alone, as a child who was being abused at home.

Cute middle-school read with a protagonist who, at 13, is finding her voice and strength. Seems like it would be an empowering read for young girls.
And I was so shy and introverted, that I truly had no idea of the world around me.So reading this book is a look into a moment in time that I didn't understand at all.
Also, with some of the children opposed to her methods, she's always going to have that conflict in her classroom, and the knowledge that no matter how well she taught, she would not be wanted, or desired.This is a difficult book, but it's not one I would read again or go out of my way to recommend.
I think there are better books that encapsulate this moment in time.
This was one of my staples as a kid, not least because I totally glommed on to a character completely insecure about her body and also having a hard time with a disconnected mother.
Yes, it shows that this was written in the 70s--the ideas of a teacher being "Ms." or of a woman having to stay in the home are pretty out-of-date these days--but the main concepts are still incredibly strong.
Every kid wants an adult who makes him/her realize that s/he has something to offer.
Every kid is going through some home stuff or other that's hard.
Marcy is ostensibly thirteen years old, but her narration reads as though she's about eight.
Even in 1974, high-school kids would never talk about political issues this way--hell, this was a year after the abolition of the draft, and the class of '74 was the first in a generation where the male students could breathe freely.
If Danziger hadn't discovered her comic talents, this might have been the end of her career.For a much better view of children dealing with adult concerns, read Bridge to Terabithia.
It was produced by Full Cast Audio which is awesome if you listen to a book by them.
I had to compose myself several times before going into a couple stores today while listening in my car because it was emotional.
:)I would recommend this book for early teens as the main character, Marcy, is 13 yrs old and because of the emotional controversies.
I just wanted to give Marcy a big hug at times.
It all works out great in the end and is not really depressing (which is always a plus for me!).
The cat ate my gymsuit by Paula Danzinger was a very inspirational book because of the way the characters gave the story.
I enjoyed the book a lot and I am looking to read more of this author, because it gave a huge impact on Marcy (the main character) on how one person (Ms.Finney a new teacher) can help you step out of your comfort zone.
The main conflict of the story is that a class gets a new English teacher named Ms.Finney and she has a way of teacher that the kids enjoy but board and administrative don't agree so the kids try to get her back once shes fired.
I found this book in an old box with a bunch of other books that defined my early teen years.
I sat down and reread it in about an hour.
It brought back a ton of memories for me.
I believe it still stands the test of time - I'm not sure kids say "neat" anymore or any kid today would understand the horror of getting a phone call from a "friend" during dinner and having to stand in the kitchen while the family listened with the cord wrapped around your arm, but the themes remain consistent, unfortunately.
Teens still worry about who will sit with them during lunch, the zit on the chin, the teacher who hates them, and changing clothes in gym.
Some things never change.
This was a decent coming of age novel.
I probably would have enjoyed it more if I was actually coming of age, and going through similar experiences.
Now, I'm looking at the characters with the benefit of wisdom that comes with age.
However, having said that, Danziger created some phenomenal characters that were very relatable.
At one point, when Marcy's father was being a worse emotional abuser than normal, I actually called my father and told him I loved him for not being like that.
The best part was the ending, the problems were resolved in a realistic manner.
While I liked the main character, as I identify with her, the rest of the characters come off as complete annoying jerks, especially the father and the principal.
The father calls her stupid and comes close to physically abusing her.
The principal is a bully and I feel that in real life he would've been fired.
The story was just unpleasant and the main issue that gets the teacher fired is just, by today's standards ludicrous and unimportant.
If you liked the book that's your opinion, but for myself, I'll just move on to Charles Dickens.
Marcy Lewis is a young student. At first she's shy, hates the way she looks, and refers to herself as the blimp. Everyday she goes to school and she skips gym class and is scared of showing too much blimp (fat). One day things change, she changes. Mrs. Barbra Finney comes as a new English teacher. She brings out the real Marcy. Marcy starts to stick up for herself and later in the book she has to stand up for mrs. Finney.
Word of advice--If you are reading a book to your kids that you haven't read in a really long time, reread it by yourself first! There were a few kind of heavy topics in this one for my 10 yr old.
No plot, another coming of age with body issues clichés. Nope! Not for me.
