https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/691242.Imitation_of_Life
If you haven't seen either the 1934 or 1959 versions of Imitation of Life, this review will have some spoilers, because I discuss how the book is different from its cinematic descendants.
How we are to believe that this character became a mogul is beyond me, given that she can't even manage to tell the people she loves the simplest of truths, or stand up for herself in even the most basic of ways.And then there's Delilah who, in both films, is a strong, loving and honorable person.
Part of what’s interesting about Imitation of Life is that despite the problems with race, in some ways it was progressive for the 1930s.See what I mean about this book inviting discussion and debate?Women’s rights and feminism also play a role, which ties directly into the somewhat depressing ending.
But I could see how someone could interpret it differently, which is part of what makes the book so engaging.Imitation of Life has its flaws, but I finished it thinking it should be taught more regularly in college-level English classes.
Fannie Hurst's Imitation of Life traces the friendship developed between two single women- one African American employee and one Caucasian employer- and chronicles the women raising their daughters and the complicated emotional relationships they have with them from childhood to adulthood.
The complicated emotional centers of the story derive from separate mother-daughter plots.
Through Peola, Hurst sheds light on the mysterious aspects of back story.
Peola is the tragic mulatta who attempts to pass as Caucasian.
Once I got past the offensive context (Bea capitalizing on Delilah like a master-slave relationship) and melodrama, I found the book to be worth reading.
Outstanding! As black women I understand the pain that Sarah-Jane went through (not saying that I don't want to be black). At the time it was hard for a black girl to go around saying 'Yes, I am black and what?' (Especially when you don't look it) Without having the fear of somebody beating you, killing you or sexually assaulting you. We cannot put the full blame on her. 1933 was the worst time for a black person to feel free😟I've first watched this film when I was about 7... and I still love it till this day!!!
Instead, Bea Pullman is a female David Levinsky.
A widow at 18 with an infant and a disabled father to support, Bea lies in bed at night thinking of how to sell maple syrup and then sugar candies.
Nevertheless, the link between Delilah and Bea goes beyond the stereotype of mistress and domestic.
It draws on Hurst’s relationship with Zora Neale Hurston (who was Hurst’s secretary and sometimes traveling companion.
All in all, this is a much more interesting and complex novel about women’s lives and relationships than I expected.
It took me a while to get over, or get used to, the dialect used for the Delilah character.
It's so jarring to read that sort of thing now.
The plot was fairly interesting, but only the main character, Bea, had any depth.I was interested in comparing the novel to the film version I had seen (the Douglas Sirk one, with Lana Turner) & found that they'd really taken a lot of liberties with the film (I know, shocking).
I've seen both film adaptations of this novel; each have their pros and their cons.One has to prepare themselves to read novel in which are a reflection of one's history and experience as minority or disenfranchised member of any society whether be as a woman, person of color, mentally, physically or economically disabled etc.
Reading a novel written over 70 years ago is bound to cause some uneasiness but also causes one to ponder and reflect on how things have changed and also just how much things have stayed the same.
Watching the 1959 adaptation of this novel has long been a rite of passage in my family.
Who can watch the film without crying at one or several points?
When I was a young adult I discovered there had been an earlier adaptation of the film in 1934.
Neither film stays completely true to the original plot of the novel.
In fact, having seen both films made me enjoy the book far less than I would have if the order had been reversed.
For people who've seen either of the film versions this will be a disappointing read.
An emotional roller-coaster! Bea Pullman's life as a daughter, wife, mother and successful businesswoman is fraught with drama and tragedy, a very good read. Its topics include women in a man's world, racism, mother love, and the price we pay for independence. Compare and contrast with Mildred Pierce.
Does Imitation of Life have its flaws? Absolutely. It's not perfect. But here's the thing: look at the year it was first published in; 1932. Now, look at the issues it addresses: race, gender, single working mothers in the workforce, inequality, family issues. And all of this from the early 30s. I think for that alone, the book deserves a lot more credit.
This was a great story. The book was written in 1933 and had an old style that was fun, but kind of hard to read. Most of the book was just great - but there were parts that dragged. The ending was really good.Now .... the book has been made into 2 movies - one from 1934 and another from 1959! I have both on DVD that I ordered with the book. So I'll see what Hollywood did with the story!
I love both versions of the movie (w/ Claudette Colbert & w/ Lana Turner)--I always cry @ the end! The book sounds great.
The movie is a lot better don't waste your time reading thank God I seen the movie first
In Imitation of Life, Bea Pullman, a woman whose husband has died, leaving her to rear her child and take care of her invalid father, journeys through her life trying to make her way in a man's business world.
The only thing I didn't like was that a moderate portion of the book is devoted to Bea's business ventures, which is not so enjoyable to me.
Also, I did not care for Hurst's style a lot of the time (but I know some people who did like it).
I'm not weighing in.I am more focused on its writing style and literary quality.
He's essentially right, except that the movies made from her books retain some currency.
This book is irksome to read because of its outdated style.
It is interesting to note that the books of better early-twentieth-century authors still seem fresh, while this doesn't.I read it because I like the films that were made from it.
That's a good reason for anyone to read it, and perhaps the only reason.
It wouldn't even be in print if it wasn't for the movies.
The book is only okay, not nearly as good as the movie.
In the movie, they wisely cut out all the endless unnecessary pages before Bea meets Delilah.
The book also going on and on about Bea's work, which got to be a little laborious after a while.
It just was not that interesting.
And, the way Delilah was written, with all the awful dialect, was hard to understand.
We would have gotten that she was not educated without SO MUCH over the top bad grammar.
Don't read the book, watch the movie.
There are flaws in the movie, but it is much better than the novel.
This bears only a slight relation to the 30s film version and practically no relation to the 1959 one, but is interesting to read, nonetheless. The biggest difference is that film treatments have always left out Bea's father. However, fans of the color film should be prepared that this story is about success in the food business and not about show business at all. The style of writing may be a little inaccessible at first to younger readers, but try to hang in there!
Similar to Nella Larsen's "Passing", Imitation of life reveals both the physiological and psychological effects of racism and white privilege. The daughter feels the struggle as "passing" for white is much more reasonable than to disclose her true identity as an African American since they are shunned in society. She is living a kind of double life by being in denial of her race and saving herself the discrimination and hatred for her race.
Preceded "Mildred Pierce" by a decade or so but the two books are rather similar, i.e., mother forced by life into becoming a businesswoman who gains success but not happiness. Found the dialog from most characters very stiff and unrealistic; it often obscured the plot. Read this as a prelude to the recent "Bird, Snow," book out now. Might try that in a month or so. Disappointed that Hurst did not take the racism issues very far. Thought Hurst needed a firm editor!
The book is okay, but it has some problems. Firstly, I expected Delilah to have a more significant role; however, I feel like she is such a static character - especially compared to Bea. Secondly, that ending was horrific. It was a poor "gotcha" plot twist that was obvious ever since Jessie returned home. Aargh! I was hoping for better.
I was a little disappointed because I'm a fan of the movie and the book is somewhat different in that the main focus is Bea's life with a little of what happens to those around her (Delilah, her dad, her daughter, Peola [Delilah's daughter:]). Those other relationships, with the exception of her dad who didn't make it to the book, were more prominent in both versions of the movie.
i seen the movie but didnt get to read the book.My granma introduced me tothe movie...she used to cry at the ending. wow thank you Goodread !I thought the movie was tar baby...lol no wonder i could never find it.
So different from the movie; the movie is so loosely based on the book. Yet, each is a powerful message. I debated 4 stars but went with 5. Though somewhat wordy for modern audiences I couldn't put it down. I really understood the title with the book. I'm glad I saw the movie first!
Have been reading this book since October and am glad I finally finished it. Have seen both versions of the movie plenty of times over the years and was quite surprised at the differences found within this book.
The 1934 movie is fantastic and bears almost no resemblance to the book, which is absolutely horrible. The movie is a brilliantly-done story about friendship and racism. The book is a rambling feminist rant.
Really interesting novel - very different tone and outcome than the Lana Turner movie. Part of what the book illustrates is how women in the 1930s were (perhaps inadvertently) punished by society for being too successful.
Another great classic book read regarding race and the American dream. If you get a chance see the old film with Lana Turner and Sandra Dee....get your tissues ready.
the two great tear jerking films ever are based on this book. printed in 1932; it's fun to read in the vernacular of that era.
Love it, A true tear jerker.
Amazing .....
