https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15560.Ilse_Witch
I have seen all this in my dreams, and I am meant to see more."Ilse Witch is the first book in the Voyage of the Jerle Shannara trilogy, which might well prove to be the best Shannara sub-series since the original trilogy.
But then the awesome people are following one by one: a silver-haired girl who sees the future in her dreams and speaks of it in riddles, a band of Rovers crewing the fastest airship ever to fly, a lonesome shapeshifter who is half human and half Faerie creature, and on top of them all, possibly my new favourite character in the Shannara series - the Ilse Witch herself, the mysterious sorceress shadowing the company.All in all, it's good.
His series usually go something like this: There is a treasure/magic/evil thing that must be stopped.
This novel has all of those things I mentioned with a new wrinkle.
Despite this formula, and the fact that I was able to figure out the big reveal at the end of the book very, very, very early on, his novels are like wearing a pair of comfortable shoes.
I’ll have to continue reading the rest of the series to find out, and that’s certainly not a bad thing.Carl Alves – author of Two For Eternity
Cambio di regia (circa) Brooks, intelligentemente, opta per qualche variazione all'interno del macrocosmo Shannara.Quello che ne esce, a conti fatti, è una buona partenza, ovviamente sorretta da qualche banalità narrativa per avviare gli eventi.L'impianto collaudato - compagnia di personaggi alla ricerca dell'oggetto X o del luogo Y - è felicemente sorretto dall'inserimento di misteri e ambiguità di fondo.Tale scelta narrativa mantiene alta la tensione (vedi le tappe alle tre isole) e fa da apripista per il connubio magia-tecnologia, ponte fra la trilogia del Verbo e l'intera opera di Shannara.Ah, stranamente indovinato il personaggio della strega (oggettivamente tra i migliori).
6/10I've had this on my shelf for a while now so in a conscious effort to try and clear the old books to replace with new ones I thought I would tackle this trilogy which had gathered large amounts of dust.The synopsis on the back of the book was appealing, a half drowned elf is found with his tongue chopped off and his eyes pierced but he holds a mysterious map to mysterious lands which hold magic of which the "world" has not seen before.
The fact that the crew going on this journey was 30+ meant you didn't really get enough time to bond with any character or care enough for them.
This is a good fantasy book, it is very fun to read and has good imagery.
It is fairly easy to read but to not easy for advanced readers.I recommend reading any of Terry brooks' books.
This is the first book of the Voyage series and when you read this one, you wont want to stop until you've read the rest.
I love fantasy, and I've read quite a few fantasy books, and this is one of my very favorite series to read.
I recommend this book to not only fantasy fans but to anyone.
It's really a great book.
Dieses Buch, genauer eine Sammlung mit allen drei Romanen der Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, war am ehesten zur Hand, daher hatte ich auch damit angefangen, die Welt der Shannaras zu erkunden - auch wenn sich hinterher herausstellte, dass ich doch besser mit dem chronologisch ersten Buch begonnen hätte, da mir das den einen oder anderen Spoiler dazu erspart hätte.
Von dem, was ich im Vorfeld an Trailern und Bildern zur Serie gesehen hatte, hatte ich auch bei den Büchern mehr Science Fiction als Fantasy erwartet, aber tatsächlich ist es doch mehr Fantasy mit einzelnen SciFi Elementen.
Das zeigt, wie viel Einfluss Brooks aus anderen Fantasy-Werken hatte und auch Einfluss auf andere ausübte.
Now he is simply known as Walker and he finds that the ways of the old druids were necessary then and they still are.So for 85% for Ilse Witch, Walker gathers his band of adventurers, doesn't tell them everything they probably ought to know, takes them through a myriad of perils, until finally he is forced to reveal secrets that the reader has already guessed.
The first in a trilogy this book is an introduction to a fantastical story.
When an elf is found floating on flotsam in the sea with a map with mysterious symbols, a thirty year mystery is brought to light.
The elven king's brother has gone on a expedition in search of ancient magic but never returned.
Walker Boh, the last remaining druid persuades the current elven king to finance a new expedition.
The people he has chosen to go with him have special skills of their own.
The Ilse Witch also wants that magic and so begins a tale of evil versus good.
However, the book then becomes rather dull, even with the various quests there is really no serious danger or action involved and I was left feeling like I was just reading filler.
However, the last 100 pages come with some plot twists and a moment that even feels a bit like you're reading Sherlock Holmes.
I also appreciated a great cliff-hanger ending.
Like I said, it was the middle portion of this book (at least 200 pages) that just didn't do anything important to the story line.
In the end I didn't love it, but I guess I liked it well enough.
Brooks tries to jump start the novel at a few dramatic/action-packed points which really aren't action packed or dramatic feeling at all.
It's hard to believe that anything of great importance will happen to any of the important characters in the first book so a lot of the "intense action" ends up feeling more like "intense filler".
I don't know why, but it just doesn't seem like Terry Brooks to me.
Why you should leave it: Terry Brooks wrote a trilogy (bad idea), the writing is not up to his usual strength, the characters aren't his best, the story really goes nowhere until book two.
So it wasn't until after nearly 300 pages of the druid gathering the group together for an epic quest in search of some all-powerful old world magic, an additional 800 pages crossing the ocean with many-an-adventure along the way, and another 2 billion pages explaining the secretive nature of the druid, that I realized this book didn't have a prayer of reaching any form of satisfactory resolution before I closed the back cover.
(drum roll)...(oh, and spoiler alert for the other 6 people out there who may consider reading this)...
So, I did the only logical thing, and I started reading book 2.
Walker Boh, only Druid of the four lands, is asked to translate the map and finds that it points to the location of a powerful magic, far across the sea.
So he sets about gathering a group to go find it, all to fly in the airship, Jerle Shannara.
The band is an unlikely one - a Rover Captain and his sister to navigate, the gruff builder of the ship, a dwarf, a seer, the younger brother to the new King of the Elves and a strange, half human shapeshifter.
Quentin has his magic sword, but Bek really doesn't know why he has been asked along.
Since it's been 24 years since I last read a fantasy from this popular author, I thought I'd give him another go.
This is the first book of a trilogy which finds a motley crew of adventures on a mission to find out what happened to an earlier mission and to recover some artifacts and hopefully get their greedy little hands on some new magic.
There are elves, a druid, a seer, "Rovers" (like a gypsy), and all sorts of magic aboard the airship Jerle Shannara.
But it seems to rely heavily on -- hey, what's the plural of deus ex machina?
machinas?
For those who love Terry Brooks this book does not dissapoint.
The entire series takes the reader on a journey to the far reaches of the fourlands and beyond, and displays some of the most provocative writing in this series to date.
The basic elements of a good Shannara tale abound, but the twists its twists and turns definately keep the reader from dozing off into rehersed repetition.
It is a wonderful storyline, and it brings to light some of the practical dilemmas of a character whose persona switches from dark to light.
No true fan of Terry Brooks can let this series go without missing out on something special.
It really adds a layer of setting and place.Every time I re-read this series, I find a new character to fall in love with, and that is what makes Mr. Brooks fantastic as a writer in these early series.
I enjoy how the script is flipped with the Ilse Witch, but really, in the scheme of the trilogy (spoiler), she really isn't the major focus until book 2 and especially book 3.
The reason this bugs me is because the Ilse Witch isn't a major POV character here, and most of the story revolves around the journey from Walker/Bek's POV.
Brooks really took a change of pace with this novel, as it's pretty clear from the outset that the trilogy is more or less an adventure on a whim.
Sure, there are reasons for all the characters to be involved in the journey, but it's not an immediate need as in almost all of Brooks' other novels.
It was quite refreshing to see the characters conduct a bit more planning and have a bit more preparation - as the successes seem more earned rather than luck.
That, and Walker, one of my favorite characters from the entire Shannara series is a central focus.
The Jerle Shannara books are somewhat refreshing but somewhat unfocused in terms of direction. I appreciate the efforts for Terry Brooks to take the Shannara series in a new direction, I'm not entirely comfortable with where he's taken the series so far.The concept behind the Jerle Shannara reeks too much like the Weatherlight from Magic: the Gathering fame. Maybe it's just me, haha.
It's Terry Brooks. You know you'll be in safe hands when you read a fantasy novel by him. A bit of whimsy, wonder, magic, & daring adventure await. Elves, dark-beings, stones of power, a mysterious Druid, they're familiar and yet Brooks makes them entirely his own with each series he continues to write. :)
Brooks once again hits a home run. Not only does he bring some humanity to a typically cold character, he also humanizes someone that appears quite detestable. I am admittedly biased with the Shannara world, as I have enjoyed the Four Lands and all of its tales thus far. I do not anticipate falling away from this world any time soon.
the storyline was decent, but I felt like I had to force myself to read it after 3 chapters. I didn't end up finishing the book.it wasn't terrible, but it only gets 1 stars from me because it gives you no real motivatoion to keep reading.
This book is really boring. I know Brooks plot is is signature (it never changes), so I was prepared for the whole 'druid turns up out of the blue etc etc'. but the storytelling is monotonous, the characters are boring and the whole thing drags on and on.
Hands down, this is the BEST Shannara book I've read so far!
The Elven King called the Druid, Walker to him to discuss the map.
(Part of the agreement was that if Walker found the any Eleven magic like the Elfstones, he would return them to the Elves and they, in turn, would help would the re-formation of the Druid council).
The synopsis is very compelling, which led me to have some expectations that probably led to my disappointment.
I think I was hoping for a different story style, because it seems all these Shannara books have the same style.
However, it seemed dull after the beginning, with characters that seem plain and boring.
The characters I did care about just didn't live up to my expectations.
Like I said in the beginning my expectations had more of an influence on this book.
Also I have been reading the Shannara books one right after another, so maybe I just need a break.
Walker is one of my favorite characters from the previous trilogy, I love the way he was a reluctant druid, and the way Brooks related his reluctant nature to the way Allanon operated.
He has grown so much as a character and it's great to follow him through his journey's.
If I was to make one critic it would be that so much time passed between books that there is more lore and history that I wasn't able to gather, but it does come out in exposition and it all follows the general formula that Brooks has set up so it's still fun to read and let Brooks fill in the blanks.
So last night I read that the audiobook I was reading for this was abridged, which means a lot was left out. This actually makes me sad because i feel like I miss so much. I'm going to reread all the books I've listened to that were abridged after I read all of his books to see how much detail I missed. But other than that, I loved the book! I'm happy to be back in the world of Shannara and seeing Walker again!
I tried listening but found myself still unsure of who the different characters were even as I neared the end of the book. For me, that probably meant I wasn't paying the utmost attention throughout the book which implies it wasn't able to strongly hold my attention. I was still entertained though which is a good thing.
The start of a new adventure ~ it's been quite awhile since I last read this series. It's nice to have a series with original thought and that which mentions aspects of history from the original books. Time for brother and sister to meet. :)
I've read a lot of Terry Brooks and although I enjoyed the book - loved the opening setting - no wow factor throughout the rest of the book, which is unfortunate given that it's the first in a Trilogy.
The first half was a bit boring but the second half was really good. I enjoyed the creativity of all three books in this series.
