https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46756.Oryx_and_Crake

Having read "Oryx and Crake" and "The Handmaid's Tale," I am curious now how many other ways of horrifying me she has up her sleeve.
"Oryx and Crake" is a dystopian (or as Atwood calls it herself, a speculative fiction) novel set in a future where genetic engineering rules the world.
does a man have a right to engineer a "perfect human" and decide who lives and who dies?
or is there such a thing as a "perfect human"?Just like "The Handmaid's Tale," the ending is uncertain.
Are Crakers really what Crake intended them to be - the perfect beings?
Atwood erred on the side of too much description in Handmaid's Tale as well, but that was a shorter novel (maybe 100 less pages than Oryx and Crake) and the society she was revealing to us was better realized.
Two of Atwood's trademark Elusive Women figure in this novel --- Jimmy's mother runs off while Jimmy is a preteen, for reasons we never learn, and when Jimmy meets up with Crake again when they are adults, and Crake is designing his new species, Crake has a mistress named Oryx, who never allows either man to get to know her, though she sleeps with both.
These women elude not only Jimmy and Crake, but also the reader.
The sole salient point of Jimmy's character seems to be that he is not Crake.
Sometimes I'm torn between wishing I could get a glimpse inside Atwood's mind and thinking that might be absolutely terrifying.
Inventing a Whole New World, creating an Origin tale, establishing a stream of consciousness which gives up to the reader enough clues to continue on his way to unravel the secret at the center of the novel (Who is the elusive Oryx?
Atwood is intrepid in the creation of this fun, original terrain, which is in itself a theme of the novel (!!!) And let's not forget to mention a fresh plot, heavy with allegory but also as effortless as air, in both the elements of comedy and surprise.
For starters, the idea of having a couple of different timelines going at once, and shift tenses according--present tense for the present, regular past tenses for the past--causes some serious grammatical problems, and is an utter BS plot device.
The biggest problem was the characters, though: three such utterly unsympathetic main characters do not make it easy to like anything about the story.
When you open one of her books, you're immediately hit in the face by a thought bubble: She is writing World Changing Literature, and you should grovel before her genius.
Also-also, she probably thought that ending was clever, but it was, in fact, a cop out.
Recent headlines suggest that her prophetic skills dominate, and with them her anticipatory sarcasm.In the wake of the Harvey Weinstein scandal and the MeToo movement, for example, the British actress Joanna Lumley is reported to be fervently hoping that “not all men are bad” [https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/entertainm...].
Part of the Crakian genetic re-design for humanity - thereby creating the ‘children of Crake’ - is the ritualization of sexual activity so that males don’t feel bad when rejected by prospective female mates.
initially, i liked the pacing of the book, and the way the story was spooling out between the present and past, doling its secrets out in dribs and drabs.
and the cutesy futuristic products and consumer culture bits are best left in the hands of a george saunders, not the queen of the long pen.
but riding the train to school today, i understood the potential value for pills given to the public that they would think were to improve their sex lives but were secretly sterilizing them.
How can someone make up such a fascinating and terrifying story?
It took me some time to take this book from my book shelves, it was there already some time, it seemed a bit weird, but after having read the Handmaid's Tale, I took up the challenge and it was well, well worthed.
An apocalyptic story about a guy who seems to have remained as the sole human alive after an epidemic catastrophy leading to mankind going down.
The story alternates beween his youth and past and the apocalyptic world in which he has to survive and the story leads up slowly to the events that lead to the catastrophy.
Snowman has spent a terrible night, full of confused, whiskey-sodden dreams, and when the Children of Crake call to him from the bottom of his tree he is still mostly asleep."You don't exist!" he shouts.
You're just part of a review.
And Manny won't write it until Jordan's finished the book as well."None of this makes sense to Snowman, and it makes even less sense to the Children of Crake."What is a novel?" asks Eleanor Roosevelt.
"And who is Jordan?" asks Madame Curie.
"Is she the same as Oryx?"The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
As Snowman forages for supplies, his recollections make up the story of what caused a massive biological and ecological disaster that has apparently wiped all the old humans out except for him.Snowman’s past takes place in our near future where he was once known as Jimmy in a society where genetic engineering was commonplace and the privileged lived in compounds owned and maintained by the corporations they worked for.
And if you think that human society is beyond saving, what kind of people would have the arrogance to think they can come up with something better?
I had read Year of the Flood not realizing that it was a sequel to Oryx and Crake.
Genetic engineering is at the core here, and along with it flows a a consideration of what it means to be human.
Are the highly engineered tribe of innocents still human?
I felt at times that the book was addressed to a young audience, maybe a cut above YA.
That stems at least in part on the story's focus on young characters.
It was a very quick, engaging read.
I liked the book and it addresses real issues.
They were life rafts held out by a couple of high school teachers.
At the time, I couldn't deal with her movement away from what were female-centric stories grounded in a very concrete and recognizable reality (Blind Assassin was perhaps the first stumble I made; and Oryx and Crake did me in).
In the half-light, the rabbit looks soft and almost translucent, like a piece of Turkish delight; as if you could suck off its fur like sugar."I read Atwood with a kind of synesthesia:* I recall, in high school, handing in a book report on Surfacing as a painting.
He's a shaman of sorts to a genetically engineered tribe of humans with 30-year life spans, naked and green-eyed perfections who speak, but harbor a child's understanding of the world based on the mythology Snowman is making up as he goes, myth built on deities he refers to as Oryx and Crake.
In the post-apocalypse, Snowman has based the mythology he shares with the genetic perfections in his charge around the idea that they are Children of Crake and all animals are Children of Oryx, which Jimmy realizes too late bans him from killing a rabbit for food.Snowman has decreed that the tribe bring him a fish per week, which also occurs to him too late as being short-sighted.
Even though Margaret Atwood's Oryx and Crake was absolutely amazing, it took me a few readings before I was ready to review it.
Like many of her other novels, Atwood presents events leading up to her dystopian future with a cold logic.
How the characters participate in these events as well as the world of the 'crakers' (which comes after humanity) makes this story truly memorable.
Atwood's stories have a lyrical quality which really fits the new mythology which is being created in her new world.
I will be rereading this book and reading the rest of the trilogy.
The novel focuses on a post-apocalyptic character with the name of Snowman, living near a group of primitive human-like creatures whom he calls Crakers.
Near starvation, Snowman decides to return to the ruins of a compound named RejoovenEsence to search for supplies even though it is overrun by dangerous genetically engineered hybrid animals.
«اوریکس» و «کریک» لقب دو نفر از شخصیت‌های اصلی کتاب است، که از نام همین دو حیوان، که در زمان رخداد داستان، منقرض شده‌ اند انتخاب شده است.
But where The Handmaid's Tale focused on gender and reproduction in a totalitarian regime, Oryx And Crake examines genetic splicing and disease.We begin in a post-apocalyptic world, barren and seemingly unpopulated except for sheet-clad protagonist Snowman and a group of naked, multi-hued green-eyed beings called the Children of Crake.Oh yeah, dangerous hybrid creatures called wolvogs (part wolf and part dog) and pigoons (vicious piglike creatures formerly used for harvesting organs) keep the defenceless Snowman stuck in a tree.Before long, Atwood skilfully sets up two narratives: Snowman's journey across the sunbaked landscape for survival (he's running out of food), and his tortured recollections of how he got there in the first place.The present-tense tale is full of adventure – a scene of Snowman being pursued by pigoons is gripping stuff.
How much is too much, how far is too far?"I read a book on the future (a nonfiction on the future, that is a bit of an oxymoron, I know!) about the fourth industrial revolution last week, and going through the list of paradigm shifts that are taking place at this very moment in time, I felt increasingly uncomfortable.
It's the end of the world, and Jimmy's the last human standing and he feels.
well, he feels like shit.He's wrapped in a bed sheet, he's filthy, he's hungry, and he's alone, with nothing but his worries, his regrets and some strange non-humans, known as Crakers, to keep him company.And why is Jimmy, the B student, the sex addicted playboy, the wordsmith, the Everyman, still alive?
And as the famous Margaret Mead once said:Never doubt that a small group of thoughtful, committed people can change the world.
To them I am the litboy who cried wolf.And yes, it has only been two months, not three, but I've read the other two books in the MaddAddam series (which pale to this work) - and on a sunny, warm Saturday in San Francisco when everything feels pretty great, my mind wandered back again to Oryx and Crake and remember how easy it would be for humanity to screw all this up, irrevocably.Atwood refers to this novel as speculative fiction - not dystopian, urban fantasy, etc.
The blurb says Oryx and Crake is a love story. I must be missing something!There's nothing really romantic about this story, it's a novel that questions society's ethics and morals. Dystopian novels always make me feel a bit paranoid, this one more so because we actually have the technologies Atwood described in the book, and genetic experimentation is always a hotly-debated topic. How far are we willing to go, and what will the repercussions be?This book was very entertaining, and a quick read. Structure-wise, I love how Atwood introduces the story piecemeal. She is such a versatile writer.
In this world, the biotech companies rule because they provide what mankind desperately wants, genetically engineered food to replace naturally-created food that is no longer viable, feel-good drugs as relief from an increasing nightmarish world of depleting resources and crime, and products that enhances looks and sexual desire.Jimmy befriends Glenn, who later becomes known as Crake.
He kept a print out of her because she touched his humanity, the part that made him feel guilty for the first time at the things he was doing.Crake later became an elite researcher and saved Jimmy from a life of working in a monotonous low-level job.
But for my money, Oryx and Crake is one of the most eloquent and harsh condemnations of the world we have created, whether intentionally or not, that I’ve read in the last few years.
The story is about Snowman, the last human survival of a global biotech-induced plague that has wiped out humanity, the Crakers, a group of genetically modified herbivorous childlike-humans that have been designed to survive in this new world, Crake, the brilliant geneticist who has passed judgment on humanity and found it unworthy, and Oryx, a young Asian former child-prostitute who is involved with both Snowman and Crake.
So I was apprehensive about Oryx and Crake, the first book in Maggie's trilogy of post-apocalyptic speculative works.The novel begins with Snowman waking up, outdoors.
Throughout the book we discover who Jimmy is and what part he played in ending the world.
The novel flips between Snowman surviving in the new world and flashbacks to his life as Jimmy.
Maggie has essentially written two great books and mashed them together.I also greatly appreciate that even though this novel is full of futuristic made-up jargon and somewhat complicated conversations about the nature of genetics, Maggie never makes this a difficult read.
The third in the trilogy, MaddAddam (reviewed here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...), was hugely disappointing.Structure of StoryHowever, the format and style of this novel is entirely different from Flood: this alternates between Jimmy's childhood, told in the past tense, and his current situation (when known as Snowman) - passages which are angrier and more adult in tone, and told in the present tense.
it's not like the wheel, it's too complex now."Finally, Snowman reminds me a little of Leon Trout, the narrator of Vonnegut's "Galapagos", so you might want to look at that (http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...), though it's rather funnier than O&C.
A mainstream author writing science fiction badly.
One wouldn't have much patience for a legal thriller that ignored basic courtroom procedure; one wouldn't have much patience for a medical drama that got human anatomy wrong.
I don't have much patience for this.In fairness, the intent may not be science fiction here, but sort of a biotech fantasy (in the sense that Star Wars is fantasy set in space, not that the two works bear any other resemblance.) If so, I still don't think it came off; the story and characters didn't work nearly well enough for me to make up for basic concerns about the premise.

I am not normally interested in dystopian fantasy novels but the last two Atwood books I read (The Blind Assassin and Alias Grace) were so good that I thought I should give it a chance.For me this is a very difficult book to judge, as throughout the book my reactions were oscillating between picking holes in the science (and it is always dangerous reading any predictions once a few years have elapsed) and being impressed with the power and completeness of Atwood's imaginative vision, however bleak her judgment of modern humanity.The book is told from the perspective of the self-styled (Abominable) Snowman, who believes he may be the last human survivor and is entrusted with looking after a group of weirdly childish and innocent mutants he dubs Crakers, and defending them from various genetically engineered hybrid predators.
Το Όρυξ και Κρέικ είναι ένα βιβλίο για απαιτητικούς αναγνώστες.
Η Atwood μιλάει για την επιστήμη, την τεχνολογία και για την ανθρώπινη φύση προσθέτοντας αυτές τις φιλοσοφικές αναζητήσεις σε ένα μεταποκαλυπτικό περιβάλλον!
Η δράση είναι υπερβολικά αργή, αλλά κρατάει 100% τον αναγνώστη στις σελίδες του βιβλίου, προσφέροντας του την εκπληκτική αφήγηση της και τις εκλεπτυσμένες γνώσεις της με μια μαγευτική γλώσσα.
Η αγωνία δεν λείπει καθώς το τι και το πώς απαντάται μόνο λίγες σελίδες πριν από το τέλος του βιβλίου.
Πολλές φόρες έχω αναφέρει αγαπημένους μου συγγραφείς ως μάγους της αφήγησης, μόλις αυτές τις ημέρες ανακάλυψα και μία μάγισσα!
Now if I was an anatomist a book critc, I would have praised Atwood for getting all the parts right, but I am just a plain reader who just wants to scream when monster comes alive.The one important theme that I do love is the inability of characters to raise moral questions – the corporatization has meant that most of the evil has been automated – and seems to eradicate personal responsibility for the most part; that you are responsible for such a small part of it (by, for example, buying goods at Walmart or from other underpaying companies, working for MNCs responsible for pollutions and global warming, watching commercials that increase anxiety of people by making them conscious of their looks etc) that you know your not doing it won’t affect the business.
