https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1116594._And_Now_Miguel
I was impressed with this book.
I mean how can a book about a shepherd family be that exciting?
But there wasn't a moment of the book that I really didn't like.
I totally got Miguel's desire to grow up fast and to be a part of the annual trip to the mountains.
I was entertained by his constant scheming to obtain his desire.
When he got his wish, and it cost his family something big, it lead to some really big questions about the nature of life, wishes and the futility of trying to plan out your future.
I'm not sure that I would have enjoyed this when I was a child, but now I can appreciate the craftsmanship, the themes, etc.
The details about raising sheep are interesting, and those I would definitely enjoyed even more as a child.
The vocabulary, the rhythm, the perspective, all ring true to the voice of a child of that culture and time.(Is this one of the first notable children's books to use first-person?
And modern books, all too often, use it but have the child say things that no real child ever would.)I also appreciate that the boy himself seems real.
Miguel comes from a big family, and I understand why he would feel overshadowed by his older siblings and want to be like them.The Bad: I guess this is a black sheep review (haha, see what I did there?) because I kind of hate this book.
It’s cool for a book to teach kids about sheep, but I wish the sheep facts had been blended with other elements of Miguel’s life.
I understand that Miguel’s first language isn’t English, but 247 pages of dialect slowed down my reading and made a boring book even more boring.Miguel is frustratingly immature.
A friend told me this book was a must-read. I saw it on the library shelf one day while browsing and checked it out. Reading was kind of painful. I didn't really like it that much. Sure I learned all about sheep herding, never really gave sheep herding much thought before. I had a hard time with the way the book was written and how slow it moved along.
وقتی بچه بودم و هنوز مدرسه نمیرفتم میتونستم بخونم،این رو اولین بار قبل از مدرسه خوندم و یک بار هم چند سال بعدش شاید وقتی ۹-۱۰ ساله بودم
It's not a horrible book by any means, but compared to the two succeeding winners (The Wheel on the School and Carry On, Mr. Bowditch), it clearly comes up short.The final few chapters have surprising insight, but, alas, most of the novel was a chore to get through.
You know you are smelling sheep because that is what they smell like.
Also, I'm not sure if Krumgold is simply going for dialect, but the adverb usage in this novel is poor.
I lost count of how many times I saw constructions like "he did that real good." I'm not sure if I'd recommend this novel.
Miguel wants desperately to go with the men on the long sheep drive in the summer, but his father thinks he is too young.
Miguel does everything he can to prove himself to his father, but his father's answer is still no.
Miguel does not anticipate the consequences of his prayer.
His father changes his mind, allowing Miguel to go, but at what cost, for what reasons?This book is a thoughtful look at a boy growing to become a man, suddenly seeing things that were once clearly black or white have become a frightening gray.
Joseph Krumgold was the first author to win two Newbery awards."The truth is, to get Pedro out of bed it is necessary to pull him by the feet, and let him fall on the floor, and then bend the mattress in half so there's no more bed anymore he can get back into.""A secret of only one person after a while gets too hard to keep.
The way some people act you'd think there was no reason ever to feel unhappy.""To hope so much, it's like carrying what's heavy, like too big a load of wood from the woodpile.
Notes:Cool facts listed about author Joseph Krumgold and the documentaries that he wrote and produced after a lucrative film career. Although And Now Miguel is certainly a worthwhile book, I believe it would not survive the competition of the 21st century. Also, the Newbery Board’s opinion might possibly have been swayed by admiration for facts noted in the first sentence above.Things I liked about the book:1. Miguel himself----a. very good at heart, and also realistic (he lied just a little, an
Also, the Newbery Board’s opinion might possibly have been swayed by admiration for facts noted in the first sentence above.Things I liked about the book:1.
loved his brothers greatly, and was a little envious of the older ones, especially Gabriel;----e.
loved the way his family tried to treat Miguel as he wanted to be treated----c.
showed how children can think, sometimes maddeningly repetitive and confusingThings I did not like about the book:1.
Manuel’s thinking was sometimes (surprise!) too maddeningly repetitive and confusing; I skipped over many pages’ worth, especially having to do with St. Ysidro and Gabriel.2.
The book was originally written in the '50's, so some of the setting is probably a bit outdated, but it was realistic fiction at the time of its writing, and it has that feel to it.The voice was probably the most powerful part of what makes this a distinguished piece of children's literature.
I fully believed in Miguel's voice, the way that he thought and the way that he expressed himself.
As much as a modern 12 year old might want to show that he is growing up and responsible, there isn't much he can do if his parents work in an office, whereas farmwork lends itself to full family participation, with greater respect and responsibility placed on the shoulders of the children over time.
This book is great Catholic and Christian Children's Literature, there are all kinds of themes running through it.1.
Sheep: Learning about sheep for a child will be an excellent reference and backdrop to the many metaphors of sheep, shepherds, the Good Shepherd, Lamb of God, etc.
Coming of Age: The desire to grow up and become more responsible also comes with losses, in this book we see that Miguel has to give up his beloved brother to gain his real "coming of age." 4.
This theme may encourage prayer as well as a desire to learn more about Saints and their work in our lives.
I give it my 5 stars TEACHER'S CHOICE AWARD.
I even loved the voice at certain points, the little asides and observations Miguel makes about his family and community.However, I couldn't love this book all the way because I couldn't shake the feeling that the author was somehow mocking Miguel and his family.
This felt like a fault in the author's writing, as though he were writing down to Miguel, rather than being realistic and respectful toward the very real shame and anxiety that kids often feel when they are trying to prove their own agency and worth to adults.
This book is about Miguel, a young teenage boy who wants so badly to go with the men in his family on their annual trip to the Sangre de Cristo mountains with the sheep.
I think I would have preferred getting a root canal to reading one more sentence about "will he or won't he?!?" The only good thing I can say about this book is that it's very authentic in terms of the way a child thinks and acts (I thought).
The broken English though is so distracting I wanted to throw the book down in disgust.
I've never had a children's book take me so long to get through.
Newbery Medal Winner--1954.There is a lot of information about sheep. Like...a lot. In detail.There was all this build-up for a journey Miguel has been waiting and waiting to go on...you think that maybe THEN we'll stop talking about shearing sheep and marking sheep and breeding sheep and get to some excitement.Miguel leaves on his trip on page 228. There are only 245 pages.So...yeah. Just a lot of sheep.
1954 Newbery Medal recipient.3.5 stars. Slow, thoughtful, and philosophical. I enjoyed it, even with its long descriptions of Miguel's life tending sheep. "…and now Miguel" ends very well, with the last 60 or so pages being quite good.However, this is another example of a Newbery winner that adults think kids should read rather than one kids will actually read and get something from.
Probably the first book I found myself skipping through. I don't know why, but nothing about this interested me at all, and I had the worst time getting through it for a book report.
I can sum this book up in one word: sheep. It's about sheep. If you're dying to know how to run a sheep farm, this is the book for you. Otherwise, I'd give it a pass.
It says I read this, but I can't for the life of me remember :S
Good, but not as good as this author's other Newbery winner, Onion John. This author really understood kids.
This wasn't what I thought it would be.
It was also definitely better than I expected.
A bit old fashioned, I'm not sure if the portrayal is something that Mexican-Americans would like or not.
Generally, it was a positive portrayal, but, some of the wording is intentionally stilted.
Not as bad as like when Native Americans talk in a 1950's movie, but, still you can tell it's there.
Other than that, nothing objectionable.
Miguel is a boy who wants to be old enough to bring the sheep up to the summer pasture in the mountains.
I did not enjoy this. I actually liked the parts about sheep husbandry best and found Miguel really annoying. I just didn't care. Why was it so important that he go up to the mountains this year? Get over it kid. I think it would have been more enjoyable if it was called "...And Now Maria" and it was about a girl wanting to be a sheep farmer instead of doing housework.
At the clock."Like something absolutely wonderful was going to come out of our old alarm clock, the way a fake bird used to come out of the clock of Mr. Hoffman, the saddlemaker in town, before it got broke and stopped running."When the big hand gets near to the top, some one says, 'Only four minutes left.'"Then maybe a few people say, "'Only three minutes.'"Then all say, 'Two minutes.'"One minute.""Then when both hands stand straight up, one covering the other, then that is the minute, the Big Minute, and from looking so hard, everyone busts out being as happy as they can, shouting, 'Happy New Year' and seeing how many people they can hug and kiss and punch and shake hands with while it still remains the Big Minute."The truth is, the Big Minute would have to last a lot longer than it does for everyone to get around to everybody else.
This book is about a boy named Miguel who has a wish to go to the Sangre de Cristo Mountains with his father, brother, and uncles to take care of of the sheep during the summer.
For a little while his father and uncles seemed really tough for me to like but I warmed up to them at the end.
I loved the passage were Miguel is trying so hard to think of the right words to say his wish to San Ysidro.
I learned about taking care of sheep.
I loved the father's quote after someone told him he was lucky to have such a good worker as his son Miguel.
He gets to go with the men up the mountain, because his brother, Gabriel, has been drafted.
So he talks to his brother and finds out that Gabriel thinks he was the one who caused this, with his own wish to see the ocean.
He is almost absurdly innocent, has zero interest in girls, believe in wishes, and has an extremely child-like view of the world that to me, would feel much more appropriate on a 10-year-old.
I think if you gave this book to a 12-year-old, he would scoff at the "babyish" behavior of Miguel.
That said, I think a 10-year-old would like this book.
Newbery Award: 1954Miguel Chavez, 12, wants nothing more than to become one of the men in his family and drive the sheep from their winter home on the ranch to the Sangre de Cristo Mountains for their summer time home.
...And Now Miguel gives us a picturesque view of the mountains in New Mexico and the sheep ranch that the Chavez family maintains.
Young readers of today will be quickly disconnected from the simple story and the passionate way Miguel wants only one wish to come true.
I'd really prefer to give this 2.5 stars, but as that's not one of the choices and it definitely isn't a 3, here you go with 2.I'm behind on book reading, book reviewing, library fines, and work, so I'm not really going to write a review.
When I realized it was in New Mexico, and that NM was a state at the time of the writing, I really couldn't figure out what point the author was trying to make by giving Miguel the voice he did.
That irritated me enough to remove any thought of that third star :)Good story; not so great writing.
this book or story is based on a true story.
this story is based on a hard working family that works on a farm .
my story also takes place in diffrent areas.
the most common areas were the mountains of sange de cristio and in his family's farm where he keeps on hoping to be surprisingly asked to go with the men to the mountains and feed the sheep.twelve year old miguel is the main charecter of the story.
will his wish come true?and now miguel is about miguel wanting to help out in the farm and in the mountains.
The main charecters of my story are miguel who is not patient and gabriel who is the totall opposite of miguel, he is patient and more reliable.
this story is based on a hard working family that works on a farm .
the most common areas were the mountains of sange de cristio and in his family's farm where he keeps on hoping to be surprisingly asked to go with the men to the mountains and feed the sheep.
twelve year old miguel is the main charecter of the story.
and now miguel is about miguel wanting to help out in the farm and in the mountains.
Now as an adult I set out to read it and what I found was so interesting I'm glad I rediscovered this gem.
There's no surprise that the author won the Newberry Award for this book.
The language is rustic western dialect and truly sets the tone of the novel.
Sometimes this makes the book slower to read but keeps the story grounded in Miguel's reality.It really is a good book and not just for teenagers.
The dialect is very good but sometimes difficult interpret.
That makes for a good book.
It wasn't meant to be a page turner with suspense or heightened emotions, but a window into the life of people like the Chavez family.
I think it was meant to help people--especially white Americans in the 1950s--to develop an appreciation and understanding of different cultures in the U.S. The moral theme of this book has a lot to do with patience and being satisfied with the things we have.
Sometimes, as with Miguel and his brother Gabriel, we get what we want, but often in unexpected ways and with a price.
