https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6996.No_Ordinary_Genius
I felt I was meeting someone that up till now I'd only known through letters—all the photos and drawings and little notes give me a clearer, more intimate picture of this iconoclastic scientist whose words I've loved for years.
Freeman Dyson tells that once, in Austin Texas, Feynman was so appalled at the garishly opulent hotel he'd been placed in that he simply announced "Not sleeping here, good-bye", and walked out into the woods to sleep under the stars.
Danny Hillis talks about being startled into confessing his sadness at the realization that Feynman was dying.
After a moment, the great scientist answered, "Yeah, that bugs me too, sometimes." The king is dead; long live the king.
One difference between this book and the others is that Feynman actually comes across as less arrogant in this book because Feynman's own words are interspersed with others' (favorable) opinions of him as well.
You get to see that Feynman was really a remarkable person who touched a lot of people's lives in many ways well beyond physics.
He was incredibly multifaceted, with interests ranging from bongo drums to Tuva (an erstwhile country at the center of Asia).This book also includes excerpts of Feynman talking physics, which the other books don't have.
This is sort of a companion to several movies Sykes made about Feynman, his life and work, accompanied by numerous photos, newspaper clippings, and letters.
There's not much new here for anyone who's familiar with Feynman's work, though there were a number of new anecdotes, and I was impressed at the reproductions of some of his drawings, which I'd never seen before--the man really was good at everything he did.
The recollections of family, friends, and fellow scientists add depth to the material, and I was moved by the account of his death and the events leading up to it.
or the less well known Tuva or Bust!: Richard Feynman's Last Journey.
I have read many books on Feynman.Among all these books, this one is a favorite of mine, as it captures many of the facets of this extraordinary person, a very unusual and normal guy.This book is also unusual in the sense that it presents Feynman as seen by many persons that knew him well, and also as seen by Feymman himself.Kind regards, GEN
I have read most of the books by, and about, Richard Feynman. This one by Christopher Sykes is really a terrific reading experience. It provides a personal feel to what you learn about Feynman. I very much recommend this book.
Satu lagi kisah Feynman dari sudut pandang ahli keluarga, sahabat, artis, orang awam dan saintis ternama yang lain
An excellent documentary. Now in book form!
I love illustrated books and especially illustrated bios - this is a "light" Bio with great comments from friends, scientists and family- tons of pictures. FOund it at a used book store for $7
great addition to any Feynman fan's library. it covers both his work and his personal life and has many pictures. he was a fascinating individual!
He started so many things that we must continue to develop.
A collection of first hand accounts from people who knew Feynman and from Feynman himself. More delightful content and the photographs were also a plus.

I really enjoyed this. I was concerned that it might be redundant to other books I've read about him but found that the material was new to me. The chapter on Touva was delightful and bittersweet. I love it when people get excited about obscure topics, and what could be more obscure than Touva, and who could get more excited about something than Richard Feynman? He would have been 100 next month.9
Surprisingly entertaining.
"...my mother informed me that, unfortunately, women's brains were physiologically incapable of doing science...My great ambition for years was to be an assistant to some man, just to be allowed to look at the stars. Not to do any science, but just to be his assistant--this was my childhood goal. I couldn't imagine anything further than that."--Jean Feynman
This was a wonderful book on a beautiful man. Very insightful and interesting.
extremely insightful written by Feynman and those closest to him.
I love this book because it's an illustrated biography of the man I would have loved to have met and had over for coffee.
It it is a really good introduction to Richard Feynman.
Loved it. It's the beautiful portrait of an extraordinary man, depicted with his own words and through comments and anecdotes from friends and family.
This illustrated biography of the genius physicist Richard Feynman is an engrossing account of the remarkable man.
