https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34486.Your_God_is_Too_Small
My favorite here was the "God-in-a-box" where he attacks the idea that many Christians have that God is only working in their own denomination, heritage or community.
God is so much bigger than that.The second half of the book is focused on constructing the God who is big enough.
At first I found this a bit surprising in its simplicity, but I think that is the point: the big enough God is the one who becomes flesh, like we are, to save us.Overall, this little book is a good and helpful read.
First published in 1961, this exposé of populist notions of God as spiritually naive and theologically truncated has endured as a classic.
Phillips reviews and dismantles more than a dozen views of God that have turned people off and even hardened and hurt many, leading them to abandon any spirituality and community in the Christian tradition because of spiritual injury.
Phillips then articulates a reasonable defense of a way to construe the presence of God in human life, and in particular, in the life of Jesus of Nazareth.
I really wanted to like this book. I wanted to keep an open mind. But the book is so narrow-minded. It feels like it is written by a fundamentalist Christian. This my spirit can't bear witness with, but apparently the book is wonderful for some other people and I am happy for that. It is just NOT my type of book in the least. I will donate it to the local library.
I was stretched in my understanding of Christianity, and my view of God did in fact grow.
A deep thinker and loyal follower of Christ, J.
B. Phillips does a gentle and kind job of making sense of "inadequate conceptions of God." And then provides a logical invitation to move forward.
Not that they are parallel, but that they both explore life and Christ and make it a genuine intelligent choice to follow in belief.
No matter how large a cup of tea you think you bring to the theology party.
My kind of book.
After hearing two people I respect recommend this book, I decided to read it. Glad I read it. Worth it.J.B. Phillips starts off with people's destructive views of God, then their constructive views of God and then why he thinks Jesus represents to us the essence of God's character. I liked how he addressed his book to skeptics (who are willing to dig in and ask questions with an open mind and heart) and to believers. Although he wrote the book in the last century, it is amazing how people's views of God haven't changed much in some key aspects.
Good. I found some parts to be more engaging than others. While ultimately I agree with Phillips’ final conclusions, sometimes he lost me on the logic of how he got there. 3 1/2 stars.
The full first half of the book is taken up with a critique of the 'Gods' we construct (ie the ones Phillips identified in the culture in which he was writing).
I don't know how effective it might be in that regard (apologetic approaches can be considered a bit iffy these days), but I can vouch for its incisiveness for me personally as someone who already holds a faith and believes that God exists.The fact of the matter is that we all have a personal construct of God - even those who identify as atheists, in arguing against God's existence, are responding to a particular picture, or version, of God. And this is no less true for Christians.
And more importantly it was nearly impossible to not look at it as reading into what the gospels already say of Jesus and then saying, "If God were to come into this world, this is how He'd have to act and live." I'm a believer, but any skeptic would see that as arguing your point backwards with what you already believe.
But other than that it was a rather enjoyable read with a great look at how vast our God is, how we ought to respond to His greatness, and how the coming of Jesus as God into this world gives us opportunity to see exactly how we can live in response and relationship to a great God.
This is a very old book (relatively speaking) it wasn't on my "must read list" at Candler - I don't know why!
I find myself wanting to underline almost every line that Philips has written.
Should be on the MUST READ list of: Clergy, laity, teachers, students, Chaplains, Christians, non-Christians, and general readers of all stripes!Cogent, short, and smart.
Suffers from a bit too Anglo orientation but considering that Philips was an Anglican Bishop at the time of writing that's to be expected.
Wish that he had written more but perhaps he said it all in one volume (Yes!
The book certainly has its limits. For instance, the relatively conservative cast of Phillips' evangelicalism comes to the fore as his 'hypothetical' characterization of what a God, who became present in a way human beings could understand, would be like sounds suspiciously premodelled to sound just like Jesus as popularly imagined by a mid-century English evangelical. Nevertheless, this is a great book that I use regularly in teaching to provoke students to reflect critically on their own theological imagination.
Looking forward to reading and discussing in small group at Christ the Cornerstone Lutheran chuch on 5 Tuesdays starting July 8. I am familiar with J.B.Philips paraphased New Testament from the 60s when I was a young man. Looking forward to his insights in this subject of the size of God. I have adpated the additude and expression that "God is still large and still very much in charge" to help me for balance in diffecult trying times.Ron
An excellent short book, outlining several fallacies that Christians (and others) often believe about God, followed by a straightforward and comprehensive outline of who God is. Recommended.
Wow!
Succinct and thought-provoking, this book challenges misconceptions of God and of Christ following that we may not even realize we have accepted.
God doesn’t want people to be stunted, pale, and weak, but full of vitality and courage, empowered with the Holy Spirit, confronting evil whenever possible.As ineffective and corrupt as it may be, the Christian church is the most organized form of Christianity and every cause has to be organized to be effective.
Will we have spent our God-given time in the physical world doing God’s work or piling up luxuries for ourselves that we can’t even take back into the spiritual realm?
I would have rated this 5 stars if the the author had simply deleted the second half of the book.This book is written in Two Parts: Part One-Destructive and Part Two-Constructive.
Part 1 is a fabulous critique of the tiny god we claim to worship.
I found this convicting and refreshing.
Unfortunately Part 2 is too soft and has some puzzling sentences in it concerning Jesus and how we spoke about sin.
We cannot have a great and glorious God without diving into the uncomfortable parts of Scripture that teach sovereign grace.
This little book (125 pgs in my edition), works to "Find a Meaningful, Constructive God". The author is deceased (1983) but was a canon of the Anglican church. As a Catholic I found the book to be very informative. My pastor had actually mentioned this book several times in homilies. He reads it at least once a year. I can see the benefit of that. There is a lot of information to absorb. If you are looking for a way to grow closer to God, this little book is one you should definitely read.
I liked this book quite a bit. I have always liked the title. Although its purpose was to be contemporary when it was published in 1961, it holds up pretty well and surprisingly few of his ideas come off as dated. The first half is a commonsense criticism of 'small' ideas of God while the second half constructs a contemporary view of Christianity that tries to cut through outdated, culturally-bound ideas.
I would buy Your God is Too Small for J.B. Phillips treatment of "Unreal Gods." That was insightful, especially the phrase "parental hangover." Love that. His arguments for Christ are convincing, but feel bent toward the narrative of Scripture. Great for skeptics and agnostics who are willing, in a C.S. Lewis fashion, to give the idea of God and Christ fair thought. Much to commend.
I think that there are some good ideas in this book, but I was so put off by the writing style it was difficult to focus. It's like he tried to turn a magazine article into a book and had to just keep adding words! He used more commas in 128 pages than most authors use in 1000.
Even though it was written over 50 years ago, the issues addressed in this book made it seem as if it were written recently. This book is a must read for people who want to grow in their walk with the Lord.
Interesting and entertaining first half describing inadequate, but popular, views of God. Develops in second half a theology for God and Christ in popular, but somewhat dry, language.
It was pretty interesting in the first part but the second part was.... NOT the greatest. Didn't really enjoy it much to be honest 2.5 stars
I remember thinking this book was great when I first read it 20 some years ago. This time through it didn't do much for me. I couldn't even remember what had moved me so much then.
Even though the book is almost 50 years old, it offers some fresh insights. I'm glad I read it.
Good read. A bit dated in references, but a classic nonetheless.
A beautifully written book. A good reminder of how surprising and world-changing the good news of Christ really is.
A small book (124 pages), but very powerful. A must-read for all Christians.
For some of them the reader may think, “No, never thought that before,” but for others he may say, “Yes… sadly, I do tend toward limiting God in that way.” The second section of the book approaches things from an angle I was not expecting, but an appropriate angle and one which is helpful for believers and seekers and agnostics alike.
For the Christian, this is also helpful because it gives them a framework by which to keep their own thoughts of God in check.By the end of the book, which should not take too long, the reader will be aware of how easy it is to slip away from an accurate conception of God revealed, and he will be encouraged with joy and hope do know God personally and truly as he is.
Worst of all, when a Christian author needs to make apologies for Christ by saying things like, "Christ definitely spoke of a power of spiritual evil and, using the language of His contemporaries, He called this power 'Satan',” you know you're on shaky ground (interestingly, the author later on chides those who take Christ's statements about death with a pinch of salt when His words “are taken literally enough when men are trying to prove a point about pacifism or divorce, for example”).Despite those theological problems, though, overall this is a good book that has some valuable insights, especially in the first half.
