https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46164.Tender_Is_the_Night
His effortless and viceral writing tells a story of such complex and accurate human relationships, I often find myself reflecting on Dick Diver as a friend I should check up on, and part of me thinks I spent a year of my youth hanging out on the French Riveria having too much to drink, but somehow pulling it off sophistication.
The world and characters really got under my skin.
After my first reading I woke myself by weeping...and I was weeping for the characters.
It is a work of profound beauty and pain about the resilience of the human spirit.
And if one does sympathise with him, is that because of the way he was written, or rather because we are aware that he is a thinly veiled version of the author himself, a giant of early-twentieth American literature?Those were some of the questions I pondered after reading Tender Is the Night, F.
Not very much.I read a version based on the first edition of the book, and to be honest, I can see why Fitzgerald felt it needed some work.
Fitzgerald uses an omniscient narrator in Tender Is the Night, but not consistently so; the story is always written from a certain character's perspective.
“I don't ask you to love me always like this, but I ask you to remember. Somewhere inside me there'll always be the person I am to-night.”   If you were to meet Dick and Nicole Diver at a party, a restaurant, or on the beach, you would leave them feeling as if you had been in the presence of greatness. They are both witty, charming, gorgeous, majestic, sexy, and in command of whatever situation they find themselves in. They are the sun and moon merged together, and no one shines brighter in the
If you were to meet Dick and Nicole Diver at a party, a restaurant, or on the beach, you would leave them feeling as if you had been in the presence of greatness.
As Rosemary Hoyt, a burgeoning movie starlet, says after meeting them, ”The Divers made her want to stay near them forever.” She loves them both, but she wants a part of Dick for herself.
She is so beautiful and tragic, and Dick, like most of us, wants to preserve lovely things.
Dick has Rosemary fluttering around him like a lovely, lustrous satellite, but Nicole has her numerous admirers, as well.
This book is so pointless, you could read the chapters in random order and probably not feel like you'd missed much. This marks my second and final attempt to read it. I almost made it to the halfway point this time. If you loved The Great Gatsby, don't get your hopes up for this one to be anything close to that good. You'll be disappointed.
SPOILERS "He wished she had no background, that she was just a girl lost with no address save the night from which she had come." Tender is the Night is a love story. It is also a story about loneliness. But mostly, it is about the need to love and belong. Dick Diver falls in love with mentally ill woman and marries her. But he never truly finds happiness with her. He falls in love with an young actress, but he never gets to be with her, because his connection with and his love for his sick wife
Do we love a person only when we believe there is a chance for them to turn into what we need them to be and for us to be happy with them?
If the person we have grown to love stays forever there, under some form, does the part of us that loves this person goes on existing even while we feel that with another part of ourselves we slip away from our loved one’s reach and start needing new horizons, new lands to explore, new hearts to conquer?
The love we bear for the other person or our sense of self?
The story of a wealthy married couple going through a mid-life crisis, it's such a nothingy narrative couched in formally perfect prose that attacking it feels like swinging at a ghost – the disparity between form and content is dizzying.
In its original, and most commonly printed, form, the first hundred and twenty pages introduce a baffling profusion of characters with no discernible story, at which point the narrative drops back a few years to set up the main couple of Dick and Nicole, a charmless pair of socialites based fairly closely on F.
Η γενιά του μεσοπολέμου, ένας παλιός κόσμος που χάνεται μέσα στον κόσμο του υλικού δυναμισμού, της εκλεπτυσμένης βαρβαρότητας, της ανενδοίαστης επιδίωξης υλικών σκοπών και της χυδαίας επίδειξης πλαστών προσωπικοτήτων.
Η ιστορία μας αρχίζει με την ευεργετική επίδραση του γιατρού πάνω στην άρρωστη και τελειώνει με το κλείσιμο του φακέλου της ασθενούς Νικόλ Ουώρεν.
Όταν κατανοεί πλήρως πως ζει αντλώντας πόρους ζωής απο το γύρω κόσμο, πως υπάρχει, όσο μπορεί να αφομοιώνει σωματικά την τροφή που βρίσκει γύρω του για τα ψυχικά και πνευματικά του όργανα αποφασίζει να αποτραβηχτεί.
638. Tender is the Night – F. Scott FitzgeraldTender Is the Night is the fourth and final novel completed by American writer F. Scott Fitzgerald. It was first published in Scribner's Magazine between January and April 1934 in four issues. The title is taken from the poem "Ode to a Nightingale" by John Keats. Dick and Nicole Diver are a glamorous couple who take a villa in the South of France and surround themselves with a circle of friends, mainly Americans. Also staying at the resort are Rosema
Dick and Nicole Diver are a glamorous couple who take a villa in the South of France and surround themselves with a circle of friends, mainly Americans.
Rosemary becomes infatuated with Dick and becomes close to Nicole.
Dick and Nicole's marriage breaks down when he becomes increasingly alcoholic and pines for Rosemary, who is now a successful Hollywood star.
Nicole divorces Dick and marries Barban.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفدهم ماه نوامبر سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: لطیف است شب؛ نویسنده: فرانسیس اسکات فیتزجرالد؛ مترجم: اکرم پدرام نیا؛ تهران، نشر قطره، هنوز، 1388، در 491 ص؛ شابک: 9789643419646؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، میلکان، 1393؛ در 370 ص؛ شابک: 9786007443378؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 مرمان «لطیف است شب»، داستان روانپزشک جذابی ست، به نام: «دیک دایور»، که همسری زیبا و ثروتمند، ولی روانپریش، به نام: «نیکول» دارد.
To me the title was the best part of the book.
This is my favorite Fitzgerald book.
I read it back to back with This Side of Paradise last year, which was an interesting experiment.
Besides showing obviously how much his skills had improved, it showed the sheer range he was capable of as well.
This is a dark, depressing novel.
But the sheer power of the prose, and just how completely lost everything is here can't fail to get to you.
It sinks you slowly lower and lower and lower until you're hardly aware of just how dark of a place the novel has gone.
Just like Fitzgerald.
he partied hard, and he was the type of person you wanted to party with, because it was always a good time.
i didnt want to be friends with someone like that.
i said that i wanted to believe he wasnt like that, that he was all the positive things i knew to be true but also reliable--that he was reliable--but that now i knew he wasnt.i wanted him to fight for me.
i'm not sure what my point is, except that dick reminded me of sam.
and like sam...
"Tender is the Night" is the story of Dick Diver and his Wife Nicole.
They all hang out together, doing rich people things like eating, and hanging out at the beach, and hating minorities (It is the 20's after all), and all other sorts of things that make you want to slash the tires on their Rolls.Book two abandons Rosemary and we focus on Dick Diver, Psychiatrist at Large.
But all he ends up doing is ruining himself.Book three continues the downfall, kind of told through Nicole's eyes.
She ends up pulling a Dick (Diver.
Esta novela en principio no me ha impactado tanto como aquella, pero la encuentro muy similar en muchos puntos como esa atmósfera, la decadencia y complejidad de los personajes....
Dick es despreciable en muchos momentos pero no por ello deja de resultarme un personaje interesante.Es una novela muy interesante por muchísimas cosas y está endemoniadamente bien escrita, pero entiendo que no es para nada apta para todos los paladares.
Aún así, lo que es a mi, me ha gustado mucho, y creo que estaré una temporada dándole vuelta a esta pareja y sus turbulentas vidas.
I read The Great Gatsby a couple of months ago and decided to go for a second hit with Tender is the Night, Fitzgerald's almost autobiographical tale of gilt edged glitz which conceals the slow ripening of mental decay on the French Riviera.
I approached this book with all literary seriousness - arched eyebrow, wire rimmed glasses and a suitable severe chignon and after a medium sized smirk at introduction to the principle character with the manly moniker, Dick Diver, I was prepared to be serious again.
Way to go Dick.
Αυτός ήταν ο 2ος Φιτζέραλντ (μετά τον Γκάτσπυ φυσικά) που διάβασα, και ίσως όχι ο τελευταίος, αν και δεν τρελάθηκα να πω την αλήθεια.Αυτό το βιβλίο δε θα το έπαιρνα στα χέρια μου αν δεν το διάβαζα ως συνανάγνωση με δύο άλλα (τελικά) κορίτσια.
Σας την έσκασα με κλικμπέιτ !!
This book was a hot mess and such a disappointment compared to "The Great Gatsby" which is a favourite of mine.
Right from the beginning, I had no idea where this dishevelled story was going, and having now finished it I'm still not sure what the overall point of it was.
I didn't hate this book (I did finish it, after all), but I didn't like it much either.
It's going to be interesting to see how my last book by Fitzgerald, "This Side of Paradise", is going to go down with me.
As someone who does, I can get lost in this book any day of the week.
It has that overwhelming sense of abstraction---it feels like you're reading history, a socialist critique of excess capitalism (check out the chapter on Nicole's shopping spree), a look into the prurience and spectatorship of early filmmaking, a dressing down of romanticism, and a love story about the impossibility of love.Oh, and its so achingly, gloriously sad---I think that's the main reason I consider it a classic.
Time is our most valuable commodity. Had enough of this!, Dick is precisely one of those, Rosemary is leaving me with clammy hands of bored annoyance, and Nicole appears to be living on another planet.Two reasons why the two stars,Beautiful sounding titleThe French RivieraTwo reasons that stopped me trowing this out the window in frustration,It's a borrowed book (from a rather charming lady)Wouldn't want to knock somebody out on the sidewalk, I am on the fourth floor!
Surely we can only condemn the characters for their snobbery, their thoughtlessness, their attitude that money should get them out of the kind of difficulty that they have brought upon themselves through ignorance, self-deception or sheer bloody-mindedness?
And yet at the same time we can feel sympathy for fragile Nicole, for Dick's descent into oblivion, for Rosemary's innocence.
These are the characters that Fitzgerald treats with sympathy and kindness, whereas the McKiscos, whose only crime seems to be that they are not 'well-bred', are cruelly done by:
Maybe I lack in patience or sophistication, because--given other reviews of this book--there is a good chance I am missing something (or simply haven't read enough into it yet--apparently it gets good after the tedious first 100 pages...) But so far, I am pretty seriously bored and disintersted in his saga about rich people, poor misunderstood movie stars and their shallow love affairs, dull parties and dumb problems.
It’s quite interesting reading Fitzgerald writing about American life in France, including black riots, at the same time that I was reading Langston Hughes The Great Big Sea: the contrast between the lives of black and white Americans in France in this period is huge.This is a story about rich Americans in the French Riviera.
With the popularity of Fitzgerald, it's difficult to comprehend that he only wrote four novels, this being the last.
It's a dark novel because it was written at a dark time in his life.
Zelda's illness, financial problems, and alcoholism all contributed to Fitzgerald's frame of mind.
I've read several negative reviews of this novel here on Goodreads saying it is depressing, the characters are shallow and unlikeable.
One has to take context into consideration when reading a novel, especially the time period when the novel was written and set.
It was a great read for me.
This was Fitzgerald's last book, the one after The Great Gatsby. It is extremely well-written and equally extremely depressing. There is murder and incest and the hapless Dick aimlessly looking for meaning in life and never quite finding it. It is definitely worth reading after you have finished Gatsby, but not recommended if you are already feeling blue because it will definitely not cheer you up. The language is superb though and therefore I gave it 4 stars.
In writing the novel, Fitzgerald liberally used material from his life.
The novel which emerged from this extraordinarily difficult period in Fitzgerald's life is not easy to read.
However, when the narrative moved into flashback, detailing the circumstances leading up to the marriage of the central characters, Dick and Nicole Driver, I became interested in the narrative and that interest was sustained until the end.Knowing that this is the most autobiographical of Fitzgerald's works and understanding a little about the circumstances under which he wrote it adds poignancy to the reading experience.
Tender is the night is the sad story of Nicole and Dick Diver's fall of marriage and in the end care
"Oh no, this wealthy hot barely legal teen needs me to take care of her body and her mounds of money forever because she's mentally unstable! What shall I do? Wait - oh man, here comes another hot barely legal teen! Am I going to have to have sex with her too?!" COOL STORY, F SCOTT FITZGERALD.
It's the story of one couple -- Dick and Nicole Diver; a charismatic American family living in France.
Even though she is a kind of plague to the charismatic Dick Diver (I wonder what Freud would say about this character name), she also is a charming delight -- which makes Dick's situation all the more plausible and relatable.
As Nicole gets better mentally and emotionally, Dick goes through a kind of dissipation.
At first, as I read the book, I took it as just another well-written period piece.
But the more involved I became with the Dick and Nicole, the more I began to see this book not just as a good work of fiction, but as a great one.
I have a lot of feelings about this book and about Scott and Zelda's relationship, which was the basis of this story.
First of all, I think his writing is a mess.
While I think that was the right decision, you can see that chapters could be chopped and changed and often read independently of one another.
So much so, that he reportedly stole sections of her own novel for this book, instead of passing it straight to the publishers, while she was being treated for manic depression.
I think it's his best book, in all of it's rawness.

My paperback copy has post it notes stuck on pages where I loved a quote, an idea, a tie in to something else, and just a part of the story I enjoyed. Fitzgerald crafts a sentence that just explodes with emotion and thought. I enjoyed this one immensely. So much that I splurged on a copy of Matthew Broccoli's work on the composition of this book- which is amazing judging from my brief sifting through it. I plan to update this review a bit more once I learn more on this book's background.
