https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/644655.Raven_Black
A thriller were a teenage girl ends up dead and everyone blames the mentally disabled man who was accused of killing another girl years ago. It was an interesting read, I didn't see the ending coming at all. The pacing was good too. The characters could have been better written but it's a mystery so I didn't care very much. Nothing spectacular but a good read when you just want to read for pleasure.
I started a couple of new series and the first book in the Shetland Island novels was one of the standouts.
The novel started very well, I enjoyed the different POV and the sense of place was well presented by the different characters.
The mystery, which revolves around the killing of a young girl, was engaging and I could not guess the ending.I am lucky enough that my mum also liked this series and she already read the next two books so I have them at my disposal when I decided to immerse myself again in a good mystery set in the remote island of Shetland.
And it's beautiful to look at.Rating: 4.5* of fiveThe Publisher Says: Raven Black begins on New Year’s Eve with a lonely outcast named Magnus Tait, who stays home waiting for visitors who never come.
I was thinking seriously of abandoning the read, just quietly taking the book back to the library and forgetting it existed.
I would be incapable of doing one-third what she does, with (at long last) support and help from her (second) husband.Magnus Tait, one of our POV characters, is cognitively impaired.
I am a devoted follower of the TV series "Vera" which is based on another series by this author.
So of course I was interested to read this book and I am very glad I did.
The author writes well and I enjoyed her descriptions of the Shetland Isles, an area I have never visited but would like to!
The book starts off a bit slowly but it speeds up as it goes along and is always interesting.
A nice, unexpected little twist at the end finishes the book on a high and I was very happy to discover there are quite a few more books in the series for me to read.
I read reviews regarding The Shetland Series featuring Jimmy Perez and decided to give this a try.
I particularly liked the measured pacing and revealing of the character of both Perez and The Shetland Island locale.
I’m looking forward to learning more about The Shetland Islands, unfamiliar to me.
Ann Cleeves won a Duncan Lawrie Dagger (now known as Crime Writers Association International Dagger) for best crime novel in 2006 for Raven Black.
Shetland, a series produced by the BBC follows the cases of Jimmy Perez.
I really enjoyed the dark brooding atmosphere of this novel set in the Shetland Islands.
The novel centres around an old man, Magnus Tait who was implicated in the disappearance of a young girl some years ago.
The girl was never found and the police had insufficient evidence to charge Magnus who has since been living a reclusive life, but now another girl has been murdered near his house.Leading the local police is Jimmy Perez, whose family (despite their name) are long time residents of Shetland.
----Ann Cleeves, Raven Black Ann Cleeves, the award-winning British crime author, penned her first book in the Shetland series called, Raven Black , which later went on to win the The Crime Writers' Association Gold Dagger  in the year 2006.
Raven Black cannot be compared to atypical crime novel, instead, this book promises us with a mystery that will only pull us more into its darker side, and also it promises us with one of the finest detectives in the British Literature- DI Jimmy Perez.Synopsis:  It is a cold January morning and Shetland lies buried beneath a deep layer of snow.
But the dare to knock on Magnus’ door was what put them inside his house… When Fran Hunter discovered the body of a young woman in the snow on her way home from taking her daughter Cassie to school, she was in shock.
Would Jimmy find a satisfactory solution for this convoluted case?Raven Black by Ann Cleeves is the first in the Shetland Island series and I quite enjoyed the mystery which was surrounded by the sense of a cold, bleak but atmospheric setting in the Shetland Islands.
Tipsy from wine, Caroline and Sally dared themselves into visiting old man, Magnus Tait.
A few nights later, Caroline was on her own at one of Duncan Hunter's famous parties.
Despite his last name, Jimmy Perez's family goes way back to the Shetland isles.
Caroline and her father Euan Ross are new to the islands.
He starts back from the night of the New Year's party at Duncan Hunter's house.
A school friend, Jonathan Gale, drove Sally and Caroline part way home from the party before they saw Magnus that night.
Although I love crime novels, I had not read any of this author’s books before, but I am pleased that I finally did get around to it, as this was an excellent book, with interesting characters and a good setting.
When sixteen year old Catherine Ross is found murdered by Fran Hunter, the crime brings back old memories to the residents of the island.
Now, he is also linked to Catherine Ross and the whispers start again.Inspector Perez is a local man, despite his Spanish name, and he is not convinced of Tait’s guilt.
If you like well written crime books, with a good setting, then this is a good series to try.
Raven Black......How dark is thy plot!While I enjoyed Raven Black by Ann Cleeves and finished it as a quick read, I was left with a disconnect in regard to her character development.
We hardly had a grasp of one character before the author roundhoused us with another who, may or may not be, central to the plot.
He doesn't quite lay way any intrigue for future books containing his character.A map of the island with the locations of the particular homes at the front of the book would have been most helpful.

I love crime/mystery fiction that is set in the UK, particularly in Scotland, and even better on a remote Scottish island!
The mystery is sound, there are plenty of suspects, and Cleeves is good at dropping clues without being obvious.
I’ll absolutely continue with this series.
In fact, I picked up the second book from my library today, and since it’s snowing and my hubby is out of town, I do believe I’ll be gobbling up this crime fiction candy!
4.5 starsThanks Mike & Minty for the recommendations for this one - very enjoyable!I loved the characters and the setting and the mystery was really well played out - looking forward to reading the rest in the series. It is slow paced but in a luxurious, indulgent way that I imagine mirrors the pace of Ravenswick where it is set.I can't say that it has a spectacular twist or that it deviates from traditional murder mystery BUT there is something about the writing that I really connected with

Bullied wherever she goes, Sally's life is a nightmare until she meets Catherine.
Jimmy is not convinced that Magnus has committed the murder and the investigation will try and unravel the many relationships and secrets of a community now in fear for its children.
When another young girl called Cassie goes missing there is a desperation to find the killer but can they before another young girl loses her life?There is just so much to like about this book.
How could I have missed this author for so long?
Like all the other Hebridean based stories I have read of late this is another dark and, at times, oppressive story.A small, almost, isolated community living on the edge of the world.
Suspicious of the foreign imports coming to live on their Island.
All the secrets, that everyone knows but nobody talks about, start to come to the surface.
I'll say no more.As I said at the start, it didn't take long for me to become fully immersed in Raven Black.If you like to read books that exercise your brain then you'll enjoy this.Highly recommened
I did not enjoy this as much as I hoped. Quite good written police procedural which held far too many slow chapters around the middle. I did like Perez, he goes into the 'very human' category of policeman characters. It was an OK read, but unfortunately I did not care for the ending either and therefore it slipped another notch. Not too plausible and with the narrative voices throughout the story, it kind of didn't add up.
Having recently finished all of the available books to date in Ann Cleeves Vera Stanhope series, I was eager to start her Shetland series, featuring DI Jimmy Perez.
Ann Cleeves is such an excellent crime writer.
For me, she is one of the best writers of ‘whodunnit’ mysteries and I believe this is because she keeps everything real and believable, there is nothing artificial in the mysteries, there is nothing far-fetched or implausible, which exists in many current murder mysteries or psychological thrillers.
Ann Cleeves keeps it both real and under-stated and therefore it works wonderfully.
I feel like I have been giving 3 star ratings to every "thriller" book I have been reading lately.
I just didn't really care for this one.
I found the story to drag on and never really felt any suspense at all.
It was so slow going that I could skim over paragraphs and still know exactly what was happening without missing anything.
One thing I did like was how vividly Shetland was described.
I may read the next one, simply because I did like the setting and the main detective, Jimmy Perez, was ok.
This book, RAVEN BLACK, marks the first in what is set to be a promising series, set on Scotland's Shetland islands.The story centers around the death of a girl, and is investigated by Jimmy Perez, a curious fellow I was instantly intrigued by.
The descriptions of the Shetland islands, a place I have never given much thought to before, is excellent, and makes the place a character in itself.
I am looking forward to seeing how this series progresses though, because even after only one book, I am already invested in the lives of Fran and Jimmy.My one grip with this otherwise very good book, is the ending.
4 starsThis is my first Ann Cleeves book and I will definitely read more.
This book started off stronger than it finished, but I still liked it.
I liked the sense of place in this book.
I liked the village life.
I also liked the hook that drew me in from the beginning.
I liked Jimmy and Magnus the best, even though they left me wanting more info about them.
I just wanted them to leap off the page.
But I liked the mystery of this.
So overall, 4 stars because I would read this author again.
Komu wciąż mało opowieści o małych społecznościach, ich zbrodniach i trzymanych w sekrecie tajemnicach, ten w powieści Ann Cleeves odnajdzie się jak ryba w wodzie.
„Czerń Kruka” co prawda nie ma nic nowego w gatunku do powiedzenia, jednak widać w piórze pisarki kunszt i rzemieślnicze wyrobienie, dzięki któremu umiejętnie snuje opowieść o morderstwie i ludziach, którzy obawiają się uzyskać odpowiedzi.
W końcu znalezienie sprawcy oznacza naznaczenie kogoś z nich, kogoś bliskiego, kogoś, kogo znali od lat, może od urodzenia, kogoś, komu spoglądali bez strachu w oczy, a kto za ich pozornym błękitem ukrywał potworny, niepojęty mrok.
Do czasu.Lodowata atmosfera Szetlandów połączona ze złowieszczym krakaniem kruków nie zawiedzie spragnionego zbrodni i tajemnicy czytelnika.
On the front of my book, the words "a thriller" appear underneath the title.
On the back of my book, Marilyn Stasio from the NYT says it's "chilling...enough to freeze the blood." Publishers Weekly says it's "taut, atmospheric.." I've just finished it, and it's a) not thrilling, b) not chilling, and c) definitely not taut.
In fact it seemed rather bland as far as mysteries go.
The ending is sort of ridiculous, actually.
I had thought that if I enjoyed this book I would possibly read the rest of the series, but that's not going to happen.
I know tons of people liked it, but it's not for me.
Strongly delivered police procedural set in the Shetland Isles. Haven't read the author before but I do like her style of writing.Nicely atmospheric and liked the way the characters were presented. The author was able to convey the isolation and the intricacies of a closely knit community. Had no idea who the culprit would turn out to be and that is a big plus in this genre.
Cleeves has a knack for shedding light on the undercurrents that run throughout a small community, even one where people have lived side by side for much of their lives and the differentiation between islanders (born and bred Shetland stock) and outsiders, remains so marked.In the days following the new year newcomer Fran Hunter discovers the body of Catherine Ross, a sixteen-year-old lass who arrived with her grief-stricken and preoccupied father from Yorkshire in the wake of her mothers death.
Raven Black points an unremitting spotlight on the locals and as with any of the DCI Vera Stanhope series, Cleeves depiction of the community transports her readers to the throbbing pulse of the valley.
Raven Black, Cleeves' first book of seven in the Shetland series, was a page-turner for me. I loved the atmosphere and felt the somewhat slow pace matched the Shetland Islands locale. I look forward to getting to know the main characters and the islands' culture in future books. I've already deemed this a "favorite series" after reading only one book!
Raven Black is book one in Shetland Island series by Ann Cleeves.
On a cold New Year Eve Magnus Tait, a lonely outcast was setting in his home when two young girls knock.
However, Magnus Tait had Inspector Jimmy Perez who grew up on the Shetland Islands on his side.
The readers of Raven Black will follow the twist and turns in Inspector Jimmy Perez investigation into the murder of a young teenage girl.
I have falling love with reading books set in the Shetland Islands.
The readers of Raven Black will learn about living on the Shetland Islands.
Enjoyable and quick reading for an evening or two.
It's suspenseful and mysterious in the beginning but the ending was kind of disappointing for me.
Throughout the book, there are lots of details, enough to make readers suspect certain characters.
However, when the killer is revealed, I feel like the writer had randomly picked a character with a made up motivation.
On the plus side: I love the writing style.
Also, I fell in love with Shetland.
This place is well-described with the reference to Viking heritage and the local tradition (Up Helly Aa) which is really fascinating to me.
Shetland is in my place-to-visit list
I read this because the BBC are dramatising this book next week 'Shetland' and I wanted to be familiar with the series.
My sister also recommended the author to me.A brilliant read that makes you want to hop on a plane up to Scotland.
I absolutely love it when authors create evil acts in small town places and do it well.In a place where everyone knows everyone, a teenage girl is murdered and the local ageing hermit is the one everyone is pointing their finger at.
I wasn't hugely surprised by the killer, but it made no difference to my love of the book.
A well crafted, dimensionally characterised, and atmospheric crime novel - why is that so rare to come across?!Am I simply looking in all the wrong places? At least this one is the first in a series, so hopefully there are many more to go before I once again have to hunt down a new book, new author.
