https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/954674.Little_Brother
"Little Brother" is "1984" for the 21st century, but with more impact.I don't recall that the book ever states what the year is.
This book is aimed at teens, but every American adult should read it too.
At 47, I thought I was past the age when a book would have the power to move me and change me as profoundly as "Little Brother." I've read thousands of books in my lifetime.
But, when it comes to real power, "Little Brother" is right up there next to "To Kill a Mockingbird." I'd give it 6 stars if I could.
“It's not about doing something shameful. It's about doing something private. It's about your life belonging to you.” What do you value more - privacy or security? What if the endless security measures lull you into thinking you're safe but are in fact little but an excuse for a tight grip on your, ahem, 'unmentionables' in order to keep you meek and docile? Billed as a young adult book, Cory Doctorow's Little Brother, despite its decidedly young voice and a few overexplanations aimed at chrono
But for every Big Brother there is a Little Brother, and here this role is taken on by a 17-year-old technology-savvy young man Marcus Yallow, whose natural incline towards questioning authority (by, really, quoting the Declaration of Independence) and accepting freedom of speech as the undeniable right, combined with the poor luck of ending up in the wrong place at the wrong time make him a target and a victim of those in power - and make him a thorn in their side that they cannot get rid of.
I was never allowed to read the book purely for the first several chapters, as I was worried that I might be missing some plot-related element if I skipped the bookstore plugs.
The martyrdom of Marcus is all well and good as a plot device, but other than the concert event and the flash mob, there was never any real sense of the scope of what was happening in the world of the book.
Maybe that's something Doctorow felt necessary to put into a Young Adult book, but as a teenager, I would've found that a little insulting, especially since Marcus shows plenty of trust in his History teacher and later on, the journalist.
Our protagonist’s world is changed forever after his arrest and Doctorow uses Marcus’ declared war on the DHS as a means to discuss topics of law, freedom, Constitution and the nature of our precarious balancing test of safety versus personal freedom and privacy.Marcus’ techno-revolution will undoubtedly strike a filial chord with many young adults, presumably the intended audience for this novel, and his fear and paranoia surrounding the hard times of the DHS crack down is a clear and intentional throw back to the counter culture, social activism of the 60s and Doctorow’s setting in San Francisco is no accident.This book will raise divergent discussions about the nature of security and the foundations of our Bill of Rights in light of very real threats from abroad and from within.
However, adult readers shouldn't worry that Doctorow's book will leave them behind or have them feeling juvenile for reading it."Little Brother" is a mature, contemporary novel that looks at the issue of security in a near-future that doesn't seem too far from today.
Marcus sets out to restore his true freedom and take out the oppressive regime of the Homeland Security Officers."Little Brother" doesn't shy away from the big questions.
While this novel is set in a non-defined near future, Doctorow is clearly commenting on the ways and means used today to keep our country and world "safe" from the next attack.
What sounds from the description like a fun techno-thriller tinged with lefty politics is instead a didactic bore of a blog entry masquerading as a novel. I agree with the politics of the book; it's the bad writing I have a problem with. It seems Doctorow was so concerned with conveying his Important Message that he forgot that long lectures tend to kill plot momentum. (He also forgot about credible characters and dialogue that sounds like a real human being would actually say it.) A colossal disappointment, and I downloaded it for free.
One normal day at school follows another until Marcus and his friends escape it during a break and almost perished in a terrorist attack.
I do not need to say about the state of surveillance after a terrorist attack (hint: it increased to the level of that of Big Brother), but Marcus does not like it and thinks he can fool the system by his usual methods and discredit it.
However his preaching is related to very important subjects that fall under the radar for a lot of people: internet privacy, cryptography, snooping, false positives paradox, and other related things.
I'm feeling totally weird about feeling so unenthusiastic about this book as everyone I know who has read it seems to have loved it.
(Just see that it got another star, this one from the Horn Book.) Seems like I'm the only person on earth who didn't.
(Cory, if you are reading this stop --- I'm clearly alone in my feelings here.
Go read all the reviews of people who like it.
I mean, how many times did Marcus have to "piss like a racehorse"?
I don't have the book at hand to give specific examples, but I just felt too lectured at too often.

More polemic than novel, Little Brother is the kind of book I would have devoured when I was a teenager.
I gave it to my teenage son, and he went nuts for it (he isn't a reader) and was inspired by the various suggestions in the text to learn more about RFID, surveillance, privacy, EFF, Linux, and other technologies Doctorow explores or mentions in the text.The story and characters aren't as complex as they could have been, but I didn't mind.
Cory wrote this for teenagers, and he was clearly more interested in getting them worked up than doing a character study.I enjoyed it.
Yes, I put a book that was published 8 years ago on my 'Classics' & 'Historical' shelves.
What I can know about my users just by running a few quick routines against the Internet traffic is scary.
And, just like Doctorow said, few norms understand it.
Yes, it's a lot more primitive in some ways, but it shows the growth of the system, the mindset of hackers, & will make a great deal more sense to older norms.
(Read more here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Draper)Obviously, I think it's a great book.
Yes, Doctorow is giving it away.
Far more complicated now, I think.Update 3Oct2017: Some more reading.
And then someone blew up the Bay Bridge.Needless to say all hell broke loose, and in the melee Marcus and his friends are detained by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).
The Bay Bridge terrorist act gives the government cover to make people disappear that they think should disappear.
Land of the FREE and the Home of the BRAVE.”Don’t trust anyone over 25.”The adults have turned to the dark side, so if there are any hopes of pushing back against the thuggish tactics of DHS, it is going to have to be from the kids, and as it happens Marcus/Win5t0n/M1k3y becomes their leader.
I enjoyed reading this; the plot was interesting, and all the informative parts were pretty accessible (well, the computer/crypto stuff was done much, much better than the history).
But I thought the writing was pretty bad--it got increasingly melodramatic as the book went along.
I kept waiting for Marcus to say to one of his friends "But down here, it's our time!
It's our time down here!".
Overall, the book is a vehicle for the author, not an organic story.I can see that this is an important and thought-provoking book that a lot of kids will enjoy, but for the love of god, please don't give it the Printz.
I love it!""...melt into a puddle of horniness.""Marcus, you are about to get laid for the firstest time EVAR,"If I could meet one person and ask them one question, I'd meet Cory Doctorow and ask him if he's ever interacted with a human girl in his entire life.
White people get caught with cocaine and do a little rehab time.
The fact that this is a book whose intended audience is young adults makes it all the more powerful.The story focuses on Marcus Yallow, a technically gifted teenager who, in between rounds of an alternate reality game he plays, finds new and interesting ways of harnessing technology to his needs.
Outraged at his treatment at the hands of DHS, Marcus begins throwing monkey wrenches into the system in an attempt to point out to all the ludicrous nature of the surveillance state and its complete ineptness at tracking or catching any real terrorists.The writing is clear and simple, particularly in the sections where Doctorow is explaining the technical ins and outs of a particular tool that Marcus is using.
I appreciate the author/narrator explaining the technical aspects of the story for those of us who aren't technologically super-savvy like the characters in the book, but it seemed like there was a lot that could have been contextualized (like gait-cams) rather than explained for pages.
I want people to read this book.
I want people to learn from it and take away the knowledge that our freedom is more likely to be taken from us by Americans than by anyone else, and to fight against it when it happens.
This book should be a must read for everyone, right along with Nineteen Eighty-Four.
It is OK that you don’t understand all the tech talks in this book (because I didn’t), it is totally enjoyable even if you just follow the main plot, but it might be a good idea to know the basics prior to reading this.As for the characters, other than the protagonist, Marcus, none of the other characters left much impact on me; I didn’t find the characters are fleshed out enough.In this book, Marcus attempts to save his best friend, Darryl, who is still held captive by the Department of Homeland Security and goes to such length of waging a war against the government.
احذر الأخ الأكبر يراقبك دائماٌ لكن عليك أن تحذر أيضاٌ فالأخ الأصغر دائماٌ ما ينتصر الرواية نسخة مستق
Hacker teens fight back when Homeland Security clamps down excessively on human rights after a terrorist bombing of a bridge in San Francisco.
Brilliant in conception, but it’s kind of painful to immerse yourself in the plot and characters with all the didactic content.
How these kids go about foiling the restrictions of our government with their own secure network was heroic and fun.
I’m glad I read this “classic” published in 2008.
Doctorow deserves respect for his work with the Electronic Frontier Foundation and for making the book free at Tor Books.
When a terrorist attack hits the city, he and three of his friends are detained by the Department of Homeland Security.
But Marcus, with his firsthand experience of the effectiveness and illegality of the DHS’s tactics, knows there is more at stake than preventing terrorist attacks.At first I wasn’t sure how I was going to feel about this book.
Plus, the fact that he uses a young narrator lends a really energetic, nerdy, techie vibe to the whole thing.I’m really glad I read this book, and it’s definitely one I’ll be going back to in the future, once I can get myself a copy.
I'm reading an ARC of Cory Doctorow's new book and it is predictably well written and surprisingly infuriating.
It's like a sub rosa training manual for pro-tech pro-civil liberty pro-privacy activists of tomorrow.
He extrapolates into the future the tiniest amount but today's greasy fingerprints are all over the dystopic picture he paints of individual freedom.
I'm finding myself enraged page after page, which is the whole point, and Doctorow's casual references to easily-kitbashed technology like LED pinhole camera locators and onion routing will hopefully inspire a generation of smart kids to get Googlin'.
The breezy, clueful, authoritative first person narrative reminds me of Heinlein's YA books in the best way.
The book raises several interesting issues: how much freedom are you willing to sacrifice for the sake of your security?
what if department of national security is more dangerous than any terrorist group?
These are very important questions for young adults to ask themselves.
The book is action-packed and never boring.
I think it is a bit too simplistic and lacks depth.
At the end of the day, I don't really think I know any of them well enough to care about them.
This includes Marcus.Nevertheless, it is an important book and I would recommend it to anyone interested in technology and domestic terrorism policies.
(for those that don't know, the Bechdel Test measures how women are treated in a particular piece of media.
The horrifying thing is that most movies/books/etc fail the Bechdel test.
There are few women or people of color in the book.
Imagine the power of a book like this which, instead of being written about a white upperclass boy, was written about a couple of chicana lesbians, or a group of workingclass black people.Doctorow sort of addresses this issue with Jolu.
Maybe people wouldn't read the same book if it was about a group of girls, or gay people, or people of color.
I tend to be on the fence where privacy laws are concerned, thinking like a parent, "Well, if you're not guilty, what does it matter if you're searched?" And then fluctuate between the whole "We have a right to keep some things to ourselves." However, this book makes it sound like it's completely one-sided and the grown-ups (people over 25) are something akin to dictator's in their quest for control.
So, for this political statement, I don't really know where I stand, and although it's a popular theme when it comes to hackers and technology, I think Doctorow might have overdid it a little.
Blissfully geeky, great capture of intelligent teenagers in San Francisco, and a very realistic, believable story about what a short distance we are from a complete and utter police state.
*grin*Do you trade privacy for security?ETA (1/21/12, just re-read this and did a podcast discussion with SFF Audio)It was harder to read Little Brother the second time around.
Cory Doctorow has been incredibly outspoken against both of these things, in conjunction with the Electronic Frontier Foundation.
As Little Brother demonstrated, the best thing we can do is use the power we have through the internet.
Keep leading the way, Mr. Doctorow.
فمن تعسف الأكبر أشهر الأخ الأصغر سلاحه العصري مدافعًا عن كيانه باعتباره مِجسّ حي و باقٍ لمجتمعه بعد رحيل كل الأنظمة الأخوية الكبرى.
It includes the sort of torture we know our government is fond of.And while I was still turning it over in my mind, trying to decide how to review it, a principal decided to throw his school's One Book summer reading program out the window two days before classes ended, because he decided he didn't like the book which he had already approved.
Read the story at http://www.pnj.com/story/news/2014/06...There is good news.
Cory Doctorow and Tor books are sending 200 copies of the book to Pensacola FL.Fight the power!
I can see what Doctorow is trying to do, but he gets too preachy far too often and that kills any point he was trying to make for me.
I've seen other reviews say that he reads like Doctorow created a version of what he wished he was like at that age, and I agree completely.
Throw in the most one dimensional villains I've seen in a long time (they stop just short of rubbing their hands and cackling gleefully over their schemes), leave the interesting subplots with almost no resolution, and the sum is not a compelling read.It's a shame, there really is a good book in here trying to get out.
These choices will effect the rest of their lives and futures and quite possibly everyone else's future as well.I'll say more under a spoiler warning...but I do recommend this book.(view spoiler)[ All right, we're alone now.
It points out that "assumptions" have caused families to break up, friendships to end and wars to start, yet the very people who are most in tune with the people doing the PSA make a lot of assumptions, as does this book.
It does match the view held by most of the people in this administration and the news media.
The writer who wrote this book...and so many other people who identify with the protagonists here...should realize that "conservatives" are not the same as "republicans".
A worst-case scenario teen thriller of what could happen if our war on terror gave Homeland Security an excuse to wield absolute power and new surveillance technology over our lives to track our every move.
Marcus uses technology and his web of friends using hacked Xboxes to form a network outside internet surveillance, to scramble the data, but he knows they will track him down eventually.
