https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17485.The_Secret_Seven_Collection
A childhood made awesome!!!!
The collection is very intriguing for kids and for beginners who are waiting to develop some interest in reading for good.
The relationship of the characters with their pets and the world around them gives these books ample dangerous situations along with comic relief.
I just loved them and sometimes read two of the seven's books in a day during summer holidays in school.The sumptious breakfasts, the colourful escapades, the wild plots figuring stowaway scientists, rebels, kidnappers and what not - these are the settings that await a reader of enid blyton, at least some which I remember the best.
They are real world children who are quick thinking and innovative in new and sometimes dangerous situations.
The Secret Seven Collection by Enid Blyton.This anthology contains the first fourth installments in the Secret Seven series.
The first being Secret Seven, Secret Seven Adventure, Well Done, Secret Seven and Secret Seven on the Trail.
I'm not going to talk about them all on this review but I will say that this series has immediately got my attention and I'm just loving it.
The series has been so fast pacing up to now.
If you want a fast paced book that gets your attention instantly this is the book for you.
I remember being a bit disappointed by these as a child. I had loved The Famous Five and my mum had gotten me The Secret Seven after I had finished all The Famous Five series. I definitely didn't enjoy these as much. I'm not sure why, but I didn't find the characters as engaging. While today I still remember the names of Julian, Dick, George, Anne and Timmy I cannot remember a single name of one of the seven, showing that for me the series was definitely not as memorable!
If I were to compare the Secret Seven and the Famous Five, I would choose SS. Because of one lame reason: the books were in better shape and had a more modern design. Heh.I really love this series, it has an element of suspense in it, an although there were only a bunch of children, it was as good and comparable to any adult mystery novel.
My childhood heroes!!!Me and my friends even made a secret group like them and a place as our meeting place. We even had passwords, which run just like these secret seven. A good fiction for children who loves adventures and mysteries.
I pinched this from my older brother and read it countless times, even though I knew the stories inside out. Simply marvelous work!
One of the first collection of books I ever read. Loved them!
A beautiful book collection!
Childhood memories with this series. :D
I loved this series more than the other series
My very first detective series. I should have read more Blyton.
The Secret of the Old Mill
I can't remember which I loved before the other. This or the famous five. I do know there are a few among the books that I really wanna read again and again. (If only I'll remember the titles)
