https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22816087-seveneves
Okay, so the first two thirds of this was shaping up to be pretty much my favorite book ever, like if someone had called me up and said, "okay, we will get any author you name, and they will write exactly the book you would like to read, just give us a list of what you want."And then I gave them a list something like this and was like, NEAL STEPHENSON PLEASE:-Someone succeeding through clever means-APOCALYPSE!-Something grand being destroyed in an epic fashion-People trapped together-People working together toward a common goal/to solve a problem-The story builds from a sort of contrived situation or scenario eg "Quakers in space!" [in this case, "the moon explodes!"]-People who are very good at what they do, because they work hard at it-Details about people's jobs-Chosen family/community building-People living proscribed lives, eg military, religious orders, royalty [astronauts!
Amazing stand alone sci-fi, highly recommended. I guess Neal Stephenson is a legend for a reason!
The *science* and world-building is awesome.
The storytelling and character development not so much so.There is a guideline for writing, they say "show, don't tell".
[5 pages of backstory about Moira] She looked at Dinah.
[10 pages of backstory about different people who have looked at Dinah].This is to a degree forgivable when the backstory is *fun*, but this is a surprisingly humorless book.
("But the end of the world is not *supposed* to be funny." "That's what makes it even funnier!") Where is the joy?Because of this distance, it was hard to get really invested in any of the characters.
(view spoiler)[Neil Tyson?
(hide spoiler)]
The moon blew up without warning and for no apparent reason. I guess in order to indulge in a bit of world-building one must destroy the world first. Neal Stephenson is a genius. A polymath with a wide range of interests, he specializes in the big idea, and the more concrete the better. In this way he carries forward the tradition of hard science fiction, in which the best example is probably Arthur C. Clarke. Stephenson eschews FTL transportation, time travel, invading aliens, or any of the ot
Well, the science is a lot softer here, but the politics of end-times Earth and struggles for power among the spacers offer a look at elements of human nature that will be familiar.
Like the great works of his predecessors, Asimov, Clarke and other giants of science fiction, the vision Stephenson has built in SevenEves will be read, I expect, as long as there are still people left alive, whether on Earth or not.
“We're not hunter-gatherers anymore. We're all living like patients in the intensive care unit of a hospital. What keeps us alive isn't bravery, or athleticism, or any of those other skills that were valuable in a caveman society. It's our ability to master complex technological skills. It is our ability to be nerds. We need to breed nerds.”  Nerd Alert! Be nice to the nerds in your life. They might save your ass someday.Nerds realized a long time ago in the United States that they needed to bec
I’ve thought about the Earth shattering or falling into the sun or splitting in half, all of course due in some way to human stupidity, but I’d never considered the ramifications of the moon...exploding.
This is an epic, post-apocalyptic book made more scary because there is no place in the shattered remains of humanity for people like me.
I’ve met Neal Stephenson a couple of times, but the first time was when he was promoting his book Diamond Age. Snow Crash was getting a lot of buzz in the book community, and I’d just finished reading it.
But really there’s only one way to know if you like a book or not – you have to read it for yourself.Basically, when you have over 900 pages to work with, you can dedicate hundreds of pages to detailed world-building and still have plenty of time for complex characterizations and a very extensive plot.
I know there are plenty of readers out there who don’t mind multi-volume door-stopper epics, but I have 400 books on my TBR list, so I won’t be lining up to read the sequel if it does appear.I listened to the audiobook narrated by Mary Robinette Kowal (who does the first two thirds set right after the moon is destroyed) and Will Damron (who does the far-future portion).
I've read a lot worse hard sf, and when I say it, it's not a condemnation, either.
A lot can and will happen in 5000 years from the last hurrah of the plausible and likely end of humanity.So I see another tradition being followed, one I like even more than the strict master of hard sf.
I don't need to bring up all the greats who have done hopeful and optimistic futures, although I will if anyone asks, but Mr. Stephenson has served up a beauty.
William Caxton (1474), the first printer of books in English, used three punctuation marks: the stroke (/) for marking word groups, the colon (:) for marking distinct syntactic pauses, and the period (.) for marking the ends of sentences and brief pauses.Anyway, the idea for "Seveneves" came to me when I wondered to myself, "What would happen if the world were ending?" And what would be a more fantastic way to end the world than by having the moon explode (I will keep folks on tenterhooks---hooks used to fasten cloth on a drying frame or tenter--by not telling them why, just referring to the source of the explosion cryptically as "The Agent"), and break into several large pieces, that then break into smaller and smaller pieces, and eventual fall out of orbit towards Earth where they will rain down total destruction upon all living things on the surface of the Earth.
He just dwells too much on technical minutiae & I like to focus on people & characters & enjoy the adventure in books.
It wasn't you, it was me!Here is my parting photo for those who have enjoyed the journey on this thread, which included photos of Seveneves as he shared my life for a short time.The ReviewIt was long, over-technical, and I couldn't finish it.
Don't sprout it like a brain dump.The thread for this review has been more fun than reading the book.
This book wasn't for me, but it might be for those who like loads of technical science stuff and aren't so much into characters and action.
I had already been put off by the jingoistic libertarian nonsense promulgated through a lot of science fiction and given centre stage in this novel, but this anti-humanities screed was the last straw.
It's not just that it's intellectually lazy (it is, though, full of strawmen) or that it's politically objectionable (Stephenson has his heart in the right place).
Life is too short for lazy strawmen in fiction.If you thought the gun-fetish heavy Reamde was Stephenson's worst, don't bother reading this.
His prose flops around -- short, declarative sentences that even children could read.
I continued my recent SF binge with a look at this mammoth offering from the award-winning writer of ‘speculative fiction’. The first sentence sets the scene pretty well: The moon blew up with no warning and for no apparent reason.  Soon, the best known television commentator on such issues is proclaiming that the hard rain’s a-gonna fall. And keep falling. In fact it’ll rain rocks for thousands of years. Not the best news then.And we’re off into the realm of the end of the world, as we know it
Not the best news then.And we’re off into the realm of the end of the world, as we know it – with a date for its destruction pretty much nailed down to two years hence.
This is where I wanted to be wowed by accounts of people’s reaction to the impending catastrophe, scenes of civic unrest and, perhaps, a deep quasi-sociological study of how mankind would cope with the likely total destruction of humanity.
Exploring the idea of a Space Ark as a way of sustaining the human race is interesting, and an amount of science is needed to give the tale credibility, but I also wanted to know what was happening back on earth.
I thought I would give it one more shot tonight, but after reading for 45 minutes and literally having no idea what I just read I think it is time to throw in the towel.I feel like I should like this book.
I liked many of the characters and was interested to see what would happen to them.But, my god, the unnecessary details.
The inability to actually get to know any of the characters because he described the inanimate objects in minute detail.I was more interested in the people.
Maybe if I hadn't taken almost a month to read just under half of it I would have noticed the details less and the plot would have moved along better.
This is Stephenson turning his eye on the world of hard sf, imagining a complex but totally believable future for a humanity bereft of earth.
In fact at one point I was having a total squee because he's created a world where both the old sf imaginings of the future with their great dumb machines, and the newer sf with its knowledge of computers, come together to form this intriguing vision of the world.
Finally, Stephenson's writing is wonderful; easy to read and yet injected with complex ideas and some lesser known nuggets of vocabulary, I always come out of his books feeling a little bit smarter than when I went in.
There have been other books with a similar premise, but the devil (about how humanity comes together to work out the enormous technological and existential problems of the challenge) is in the details.
And the details are important to Stephenson.
In Seveneves (the first 2/3 of the novel), Stephenson combines nice storytelling with a hard science bend in a way which is understandable (most of the time) and doesn’t have me wanting to skip over those details.
However, it allowed Stephenson to continue his exploration of ways in which humanity might want to alter itself to adapt to a changing world.
Ivy has to manage a massive remodeling of Izzy to accommodate as many people as earth can send, and Dinah gets tasked to use her cool array of robots to help with the engineering and to hollow out the asteroid recently brought in to the station by her company.
An image in the book shows the station bound to the asteroid at one end and a toroid which can be spun for artificial gravity, necessary for agriculture and for significant visitation by humans to avoid bone loss from weightlessness.
Review posted at the B&N Sci-Fi and Fantasy Blog:http://www.barnesandnoble.com/blog/sc...
I've always been crap at maths and physics, really, so when I start thinking "but that's the very basics, why are you expanding on it", then there's a problem.All the telling-not-showing also greatly reduced the characters' roles as people instead of plot devices.
It could've spanned two or three novesl: the going into space, surviving for 5000 years with all the problems that were bound to arise, then the return to Earth, for instance.
The return to Earth had some nicely adventurous moments, bordering on indeed showing more than telling, but those didn't last.This was a far, far cry from Snow Crash (which I read and loved some 12 or 13 years ago, by the way).
As the joke has been going, if you enjoy orbital mechanics as a main character, you'll enjoy this novel.
I was commenting to someone that the book could be 100 pages shorter if we dumped the super detailed description of orbital mechanics that occurs as an info-dump over and over again.
*sigh*Stephenson is the Stephen King of Science Fiction: only writes massive novels that no editor is up to the challenge of editing (and I *liked* Reamde!).
All of this with waaaaaaaay too much detail on how space mechanics work from an author who was a consultant at Jeff Bezos' private space venture in Seattle.
(There was a lot of downtime while we were driving between different points of interest, and luckily my husband likes to drive, which leaves me with a lot of reading time.) Arches National ParkThe seared look of the landscape in some of those parks fit in well with the premise of this epic novel.
Toward the end of the novel, there's a sudden leap forward several thousand years in time, when we find out what happened to the survivors(view spoiler)[both on the space station and some on earth who managed to survive by going into deep caves or the deepest parts of the ocean (hide spoiler)].
Since Neal Stephenson covered it at the talk I saw him give recently, I'm going to say he doesn't think it'd be too much of a spoiler to reveal that those seven chunks are soon predicted to keep banging up against each other in orbit until they eventually become a devastating hail of meteorites that are going to transform the Earth into a very, very unpleasant place to be for the foreseeable future.A great many people decide that the answer to this disaster is SPACE - and a concerted effort is made to get self-sustaining habitats up beyond the Earth's atmosphere ASAP.
Sin embargo, cuando con el mismo cuidado y nivel de descripción aborda los problemas sociales, éticos, antropológicos, políticos, culturales y religiosos, así como las emociones de sus personajes, para mí fue una gozada total.Obviamente, en sus 800 páginas, el libro pasa por diferentes niveles de intensidad, pero hay momentos realmente arrebatadores y que quedarán grabadas en la memoria del lector: la Luna explotando en la primera página del libro, el descubrimiento de que ese hecho provocará la destrucción de la Tierra al cabo de dos años, la comunicación de este hecho a los siete mil millones de personas que habitan nuestro planeta, la concepción del Arca Nube y cómo logra hacernos sentir esa imperiosa necesidad de salvar a la humanidad como especie, son sólo algunos ejemplos de la primera parte y los que puedo mencionar sin que sea spoiler.
The great thing about a good Stephenson book is it makes you think about the future in new ways, and this book was no exception.
We don't have time to find out who, as within a few years the fragments of the moon cause the worst asteriod shower earth has ever seen and wipe out all life in earth.
We have time to send 1,500 people up into space - and this is their story.The use of robots throughout the books was fascinating to me.
Stephenson has clearly looked 10-20 years into our future and correctly predicted how it will go.
600 pages of concentrated awesomesauce, let down a little by Stephenson's decision to devote so much of the last part to backfilling the 5000 years of future history he skipped absent the underpinnings of character or narrative. Still. His best in a decade, I dare say.
I get that this isn't necessarily a character driven story but I liked it best when they were involved because, to me, they were the literal embodiments of civilization's reaction to the disastrous implications the story is based on.
It was interesting in the sense that they were descendants of the characters (blue good!
But I don't know if the story we were given was the best way.Hidden beneath all of the science, Stephenson had a lot to say about humankind as a whole.
My quarrel with the book would be that sometimes, Stephenson gets bogged down in the hard technical stuff that he understands so well.
So, most of the first section concerns a mad rush to save the human race by sending a small, hand picked cadre of assorted scientists, engineers, and other geeks into space.
Section Two starts with the destruction of earth's seven billion via the White Sky, which precipitates the Hard Rain.
The human race is once again thriving, with three billion descendents of the Seven Eves living on a sort of Dyson ring in space known as The Habitat.
Reminder to self: no review posting until less than 30 days before release date. Silly brag: woohoo I totally scored a review copy of this book!
Its been a while since book left me with so many mixed feelings like Seveneves did.LIKES * Builds on existing technology.
As a speculative fiction fan, I read a lot of apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic books.
But Neal Stephenson really made me care and cheer for the survival of Earth.
Neal Stephenson used a lot of interesting science facts as plot elements.
I wish I read it in some book club, so we could chat about interesting geeky details, favorite emotional moments and rant about the characters we hate.When it comes to recommending Seveneves, I am not sure what to say.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Big-Ass Delta VEE: “Seveneves” by Neal Stephenson  When I read the first 50 pages, my first objection was to could the moon have been broken up into so few large pieces.
The verisimilitude hangs on the likelihood of meteor bombardment coming down to what the Agent was, and I'm not aware of anything we currently know of that could break apart the moon like that.
The most expected sf novel of the year for me turned out to be quite frustrating as it clearly could
I tried so hard to enjoy the story, but I did care for any of the characters as they seemed like 2D rather than 3D, even though I thought the premise/idea was pretty cool.
