https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57902.Vanity_of_Duluoz

Instead, the adventures of young Kerouac breath new life into the beat myth once again for anyone who felt something with "On the Road": Horace Mann school, football at Columbia, his involvement with Lucien Carr's killing of David Kammerer, his family falling apart, his days and eventual discharge in the military on psychiatric grounds, and hanging around and eating steaks and ice cream and feeling the possibility of everything.
Это роман «про футбол и войну».
Но первая треть — действительно почти исключительно про футбол и стоны о том, как нашего героя недооценивали на поле.
Более нелепого идиотизма мне читать, наверное, не доводилось, это действительно, видимо, худшее из им написанного.
Но стоит продраться сквозь эту первую треть — и дальше все будет хорошо, а под конец и вовсе прекрасно.И трогает здесь (ок, даже в первой трети) в первую очередь то, что Керуак (о чем как-то не очень много говорят даже специалисты), и был, и навсегда остался писателем иммигрантским.
Его восторг перед Америкой — это восторг чужака, аутсайдера, пришельца.
This doesn't mean 'copying' them, it means just being influenced and inspired by the words Kerouac said and wanted the world to know, if for the sake of merely getting it out of himself or actually trying to say and teach others something, that I don't know, but for me the important things's that he ALWAYS has some kind of impact on me, smaller or bigger.
Recently, thanks to him, I'm trying to be more specific in my speech, so I can convey my thoughts to words more accurately, thus avoiding, even to a small extent, confusion and misunderstanding.
Thomas Wolfe?" "No, who are they?"- There are a couple of scenes of his father’s spirit and participation in Jack’s life, his admiration for Jack, and how Pa joined Jack to dive into a swimming hole three feet deep, and also take a road trip with him to Columbia.- How his older sister taught him “Emily Post” table manners over three years, which came in handy when dining with the Dean at Columbia, who was so impressed that he praised Jack in a letter to Jack’s mother - “She never forgot that.”- How a “great” ex-pro football running back challenged Jack (still a Horace Mann teenage football player) to a race, to encourage the kid: “So you’re the great Dulouse that ran so good at Rutgers.
Kerouac, the man, comes through with shining clarity in this final work.
His voice so direct and sharp, it's like he's in the room with me, talking to me.
I could imagine him half-drunk, composing these short rough chapters of memory.
For fans of Kerouac, the angry, blunt, frank stories and observations in Vanity of Duluoz tumble forth like gifts from a lost world.
Despite all his bitterness (and some rather silly football passages), the book rings with truths about our condition as people.
This book is almost as great as On The Road.
Having written up Exley's Fan's Notes, I thought I'd add another book I'd consider more heroic than successful.
I believe this was the last novel Kerouac published during his lifetime, and he had drunk much of his talent away, as well as turned his back on the counterculture that he did much to inspire.
Yet his entire sense of self is based in the fact that he's a writer, so he pushes on, delving into archives and memory, dredging up his years at Columbia and the Lucien Carr/David Kammerer stabbing (possibly cribbed from And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks?), willing a book into being.
Не могу я объяснить гипнотический эффект, который оказывает на меня Керуак. Тут до кучи и разговорность, и детскость, и безалаберность, и... бабочка письма, не знаю, извините. ПСС Керуака следовало бы назвать "Восемнадцать способов рассказать, как я прожил, прочуял, разглядел и выпил эту вашу так называемую жизнь".Это любовь.
This book picks up significantly after getting through the play-by-play football game breakdowns. Kerouac's time on different navy ships during WWII is very interesting, and of course the introduction of the other Beats into his world. Quite a charming book.
After reading On the Road last month I decided I needed to read everything that Kerouac wrote.
It was listed as the book about "football, war and murder" and while I'm no big fan of football I figured what the hell and decided to read it anyway.
I felt like it did get much better once the beats showed up and enjoyed the last third the most, and not just because there was a murder.
I did enjoy it, and I'm looking forward to finding more Kerouac in the library and reading that too!
A painful, bitter account of Kerouac's early years in New York City. Unlike some of Kerouac's work where things don't quite snap into place unless you know the principles behind his gallery of fictional stand-ins, Vanity of Duluoz overcomes that deficiency through the sheer power of Kerouac's garrelous, weary voice. Written near the end of his life as he slipped into the final stages of alcoholism, the book is better than it has any right to be.
Boring and uninspired. Not the Kerouac I know or love.
This is the bitter old Jack, gone all nostalgic. My personal favorite. "Go droppeth a turd," indeed.
This was pretty good. Tells of Jack's footballing years, how it wasn't in the cards, and what he did shortly after giving up his footballing dreams. Good for some pretty beat lines interspersed.
There are two classifications for Jack Kerouac's novels, journals, poetry, etc.--the very good and the very bad.
These include On The Road, The Dharma Bums, The Subterraneans, and Desolation Angels.
The bad are those later works written in the full grips of alcoholism when Kerouac was convinced of his own genius and no longer interested in having his work edited.
Some of these works include Visions of Gerard, Maggie Cassidy, and the Vanity of Duluoz.
It pains me to write this but Vanity of Duluoz is nearly unreadable.
Convinced of his own genius Kerouac writes as if daring you to hate his writing.
This book is Jack not trying to be clever like Dr Sax. Not trying to be a classic like On The Road.
Not trying to be anything really other than what it is - a book about Jack's young life with all the quirkiness of his prose (without the 'dashes').
To counter that though I really enjoyed the part were Kerouac actually travels to England AND dodges attacks from the German Luftwaffe...
All in all a very enjoyable read especially if like me you are a Kerouac fan to begin with and interested in his life.
Written from the perspective of an aging, jaded Kerouac, this retelling of pivotal years in his life does not have much of the poetic beauty of Visions of Gerard or Maggie Cassidy. Nonetheless, it is a beautiful, engaging work, perhaps my favorite in the Duluoz Legend.
Kerouac's greatest hits, but written from a more mature and nostalgic viewpoint. It actually reads as a pretty straight autobiography albeit with the usual Kerouac exaggeration and name changes. Less annoying than most Kerouac but maybe less interesting...
An extremely intriguing account of the early writing life of Kerouac. This autobiographical novel was much better than anticipated. The literary references were plentiful and appeasing. Additionally, the ride was fluid and wistful. This one is recommended.
Muy buen final
O Jack!
2.5
one of his best
It described a certain life in a certain time quite well. I enjoyed it.
"Everybody who comes from New Orleans in that group is marked with tragedy." i remember the fever of youth in Jack Kerouac.
i remember the carelessness of college days.
i remember shouting at the top of my lungs when me and my friends get drunk.
what i like about Jack Kerouac is his soul.
On The Road is just one colorful fragment of Jack Kerouac's mad life, his endless and inspirational hitch hiking across his beloved America.
in so many levels, this is a hipster book with deep philosophy buried in it.
And this, his last work, is more blatantly autobiographical than most, even the thin veneer of fiction most of his books maintain by changing the names of the people he knew has started to show holes and in (parenthesis) will often put his own name behind that of 'Jack Duluoz'.
Also, instead of the narrow focus that most of his work has, on a particular theme and generally a small time frame of events, here we have a sweep of years, relatively influential years, and here were have a context, family context, life changes, historical events, into which to place the events of Kerouac's early life, as close as he's ever come to true characterization with the character he had the biggest hand in creating, himself.This is not, I think, a good introduction to the works of Jack Kerouac.
Vanity of Duluoz is like its little brother, the last novel that Kerouac released before he died in 1969, due to an internal hemorrhage caused by cirrhosis (from a lifetime of heavy, heavy drinking) along with complications caused by an untreated hernia and a bar fight that he'd been in.
Jack Duluoz is Kerouac's alter ego, and he's used as a vehicle to convey Kerouac's high school experiences in Lowell, Massachussets, and his subsequent education and early life.From Lowell, Kerouac heads to Columbia University, playing American Football along the way.
I didn't realise that until after I'd finished reading it, but it didn't really matter - as the title suggests, this is all about Kerouac.
"But my hands werent sea-netted and chapped by rope and wire .
Oh the pots and pans the racket of their fear, the kitchen of the sea, the Neptunes down here, the herds of sea cows wanta milk us, the sea poem I aint finished with, the fear of the Scottish laird rowing out with a nape of another fox' neck in the leeward shirsh of S H A O W yon Irish Sea!
125).Certainly worth a read for some funny stories (though I have absolutely no aptitude for football).
187).poem "Vanity of July"http://www.beatdom.com/?p=3233
Although written when Kerouac was well into alcohol, I found this book an intersting read, especially since, while reading this at night before bed each night, I was reading by day the Town and The City, which more or less deals with the same time period.
I loved this straight forward account of his days in the Navy and Football days from Lowell to Columbia, and Lucien Carr's murder case, I was a bit apprehensive about reading this as I read some bad reviews about it, but I'm so glad I did, it's a different Kerouac thats immediatly evident, but it makes me wish he lived longer to write more, but just another chapter in the story and mystery of Kerouac
First Kerouac book I read, I didnt know much about him. Just recognized his name and heard others raving about On The Road before. As Im travelling around myself I thought this may be a good read. I have no idea how it compares to On the Road, but I didnt find it too interesting. As the title kind of gives away, this is just a guy constantly bragging about his amazing life, his football skills, the friends he met, the books he read, the girls he laid (what a sexist prick by the way), the intelle
First Kerouac book I read, I didn´t know much about him.
Just recognized his name and heard others raving about On The Road before.
I have no idea how it compares to On the Road, but I didnt find it too interesting.
As the title kind of gives away, this is just a guy constantly bragging about his amazing life, his football skills, the friends he met, the books he read, the girls he laid (what a sexist prick by the way), the intellectual conversations he had etc etc.
I don´t the self-centered bragging too much.
He does have live the life, it´s interesting enough.
