https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/414999.Childhood_s_End
“No utopia can ever give satisfaction to everyone, all the time. As their material conditions improve, men raise their sights and become discontented with power and possessions that once would have seemed beyond their wildest dreams. And even when the external world has granted all it can, there still remain the searchings of the mind and the longings of the heart.” The United States and the Soviet Union were in the midst of a military space race when large ships appeared in the skies over all t
Given the range and the depth of what the NSA knows about all of us, not just US citizens by the way, maybe we should start applying the term The Overlords to the United States government.
People became passive sponges--absorbing but never creating.” Clarke mentions that people in this society started watching television three hours per day.
When people ask me how I read so many books a year and still work full time, I usually ask them how much time they spend watching television or playing with their cell phone or playing games on their iPad?
One of my colleagues was an aging chain smoking gray haired country boy missing half of his teeth and so learning disabled as to need my help with basic addition.He probably knew more about literature than many of the professors I've had, or at the least he was more interesting to talk to and his opinions were less rote.
He absolutely needed someone to talk about the experience with, and by that time I was unable to hide the fact that I was an "egghead" so I was probably the only person he knew that was qualified.
Clarke’s novel Childhood’s End that it is one of the few masterpieces in the science fiction genre.
Written simply but with conviction and persuasion, with an almost fable-like narrative quality, Clarke has given to us that rarest of literary achievements: a science fiction masterpiece.
I especially liked the racial memory (or racial premonition) ideas and the ideas of collective consciousness.
Clarke’s ingenuity remains untouched and this work stands atop the science fiction canon, comparable to only a handful of other science fiction classics, including the novel that won the Hugo Award in 1954, the same year Childhood’s End was nominated for that award, Ray Bradbury’s Fahrenheit 451.
you think you're so fucken smart, don't you mark?
you sure are a well-read little scifi nerd, aren't you?
it was all laid out as expected and the pleasures were of a familiar sort.
when the mystery of the aliens' appearance was solved, you were a wee bit surprised.
well fucking Congratulations, chump, your predictions came half-true.
there aren't any half-medals.
there are some fucking spoilers that follow!you weren't expecting what came after.
you didn't expect it to all come out, be laid out on the page like a body in a morgue, your body, and then just get eviscerated.
grow the fuck up, chump.
I read this long ago, just when I was becoming a teenager and my tastes were changing, you might say I read it at childhood's end."When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things.
1 Corinthians 13:11.
But we cannot do this without the help of our parents and teachers (view spoiler)[and politicians.
One or two, you know (hide spoiler)].
And so it is the Aliens come.The story is essentially the one of zen buddhism told as scifi-fantasy.
And on that note, the book ends.
Clarke can be accused of taking a cosmic leap of faith into the realm of highly unrealistic speculation, in this book.For at least 75% of the narrative, I remained largely clueless about where the story was heading and for the remaining 25% I couldn't help but roll my eyes at the ludicrousness of it all.Aliens, who are referred to by a fancy name like 'Overlords' (*eyeroll*) to boot, come down from a distant galaxy in the universe and establish their rule over Earthlings.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.The Silent Ships: "Childhood's End" by Arthur C. Clarke“No one of intelligence resents the inevitable.”In “Childhood’s End” by Arthur C. ClarkeOne of my favourite long novel is `Childhoods End`, but commenting on it without revealing the ending is difficult. That is the whole point after all, but still, think the early 80`s TV mini series/series of `V` - with Jane Badler as a seriously sexy, sociopathic alien - think they really were benevolent and took humanity to generations of peace and prosperity. Well, not exactly many `generations`!
From my vast expertise of having read all of two, count them, two, Arthur C.
Clarke books, I am seeing a common theme.
I don't know if it extends beyond that to his other books, but here it is: The universe is a very, very big place.
What is going on out there is so vast that it's an immense piece of egotism to think of ourselves as central, or even incidental, to it.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Clarke’s view is subtle, complex, and appropriately ‘cosmic.’ As a commentary on the centrality of religion to human existence - for its opponents as well as its adherents - Childhood’s End is hard to beat.If I read Clarke correctly, his view is that God is not the product of frightening illusion but of loving emotion.
Recognition of this truth is the real end of childhood and marks an entry into grown-up thinking.*There is substantial theological precedent for the idea of an evolving capacity for human beings to not only behave with each other, but also to behave, as it were, when confronted with divine revelation.
I know that sci-fi is supposed to explore the unknown in the universe, but I didn’t really feel like a lot of the story was making any coherent points.
There are about 6 or 7 smaller stories that tie together to make up the bigger one – and if you take those each on their own they have some really neat things to think about.
Sci-fi fans who don’t need a coherent story, just the bizarre potential of the cosmos, this is right up your alley.
These Overlords also have an ulterior motive for their guardianship of mankind which is not revealed until the last few pages of the book.Clarke’s depiction of the human race before the advent of the aliens gives the impression that Earth is a planet run by children, a little like  Lord of the Flies on a global scale.
The fate of mankind at the end of the book is mind blowing (I wonder what Clarke was smoking when he wrote this).
At one point while reading this I was reminded of astronaut Dave Bowman from 2010: Odyssey Two, when he was telling everyone, "something is going to happen, something wonderful". Something does happen; whether it is wonderful or not is a matter of debate. In 2010 the message was of new beginnings, in Childhoods End it is something quite different. You can't go wrong reading Arthur C. Clarke, just a brilliant writer with a wonderful imagination.
I was mulling over this book again, and its grandiosity and existentialism hit me square in the face. If you're ever going to read a science fiction classic, pick this one - I implore you.Courtesy of Jen's mini reviews.
This then is the second plot point, which occurs 20% of the way through the story, a little short of where you’d expect it.As time drags on, humanity loses its edge.
This is what the Overlords have waited for all this time.At the end of the novel, we learn that what the story has been about all along is the children.
But he is the only human being left on earth, and he witnesses the end of the human race.One other interesting facet of Clarke’s novel is that, since the story is spread over 150 years or so, he uses a series of third-person limited narrations.
I always feel so terrible when I read, or attempt to read, Arthur C.
I should like reading his books.
And so I try every once in a while, in the same spirit that I eat half a banana once or twice a year.
Bananas are good for you.
But I have yet to finish either a banana or an Arthur C.
Clarke book.It's me.
Clarke I feel myself reverting into exactly the same mindset as when my (much more intelligent snotty twenty-year-old) brother sat me down in front of 2001.
This is what Childhood's End feels like.It's hard not to write about this book without giving away spoilers, so I'll just warn you now and get right down to business.It starts out with damn old tropes and bit of spunky adventure, but it quickly becomes obvious that all that was a lark.
Our race has had an old premonition of its end, and these tragic figures figure heavily.But wait, is this a novel about them, or humanity?Humanity has had its last hurrah.
Surreal, and epic in scope. Mind blowing stuff.
This story is ageless; it is easy to believe that it could have been published alongside current bestsellers, or even 25 years from now, given that by then we as a race are still questioning the existence of intelligent alien life.
Enter the plot of Childhood's End, where an alien race has in fact traversed billions of light-years to visit our precious planet.
”He felt no regrets as the work of a lifetime was swept away. He had labored to take man to the stars, and now the stars — aloof, indifferent stars — had come to him.The human race was no longer alone.” Out of the authors emerging from the golden age of science fiction, Isaac Asimov is undoubtedly the greatest, but after reading this, I think Arthur C. Clarke might be my favourite.
Childhood's End, Arthur C. Clarkeعنوان: پایان طفولیت؛ پایان کودکی؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی. کلارک؛ انتشاراتیها: سپهر، چکامه؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: نوزدهم فوریه سال 1983 میلادیعنوان: پایان طفولیت؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی. کلارک؛ مترجم: رسول وطن دوست؛ تهران، سپهر، 1362؛ در 285 ص؛ داستانهای خیال انگیز از نویسندگان انگلیسی - قرن 20 معنوان: پایان کودکی؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی. کلارک؛ مترجم: جهانگیر بیگلری؛ تهران، چکامه، 1363؛ در 336 ص؛ پایان طفولیت داستان به تکامل رسیدن معنوی انسانها، و در نهایت پیوستن آنها به ابرذهن ه
کلارک؛ انتشاراتیها: سپهر، چکامه؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: نوزدهم فوریه سال 1983 میلادیعنوان: پایان طفولیت؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی.
کلارک؛ مترجم: رسول وطن دوست؛ تهران، سپهر، 1362؛ در 285 ص؛ داستانهای خیال انگیز از نویسندگان انگلیسی - قرن 20 معنوان: پایان کودکی؛ نویسنده: آرتور سی.
کلارک؛ مترجم: جهانگیر بیگلری؛ تهران، چکامه، 1363؛ در 336 ص؛ پایان طفولیت داستان به تکامل رسیدن معنوی انسان‌ها، و در نهایت پیوستن آنها به ابرذهن هاست.
خلاصه ای از کتاب: درست در کشاکش مسابقه‌ ی آمریکا و شوروی برای تسخیر فضا، سفینه‌ هایی ناشناخته، بر فراز تمام شهرهای مهم کره‌ ی زمین ظاهر می‌شوند؛ و نقطه‌ ی پایانی بر این مسابقه می‌گذارند.
I am a fan of science fiction, and I wanted to read Childhood's End after hearing it is supposedly one of the best novels in the sci-fi genre.
The same can be said of the aliens (the overlords).Prior to reading this novel, I was unaware that Clarke was an atheist.
Despite the overlords having dismissed all religion as fantasy, they are extremely interested in psychic phenomenon.
We learn that humanity's final stage in evolution is for its children to join the overmind.
All in all, I would not vote for this book to be considered one of the best science fiction has to offer.
I just wondered if any of you have had the thought that's occurred to me several times over the last two or three years.One of the things I find most confusing about the current state of the world is that you can view it in two diametrically opposed ways.
The story so far in Artificial Intelligence has frequently been that people make optimistic predictions and get laughed at, but do in fact deliver in the end.
As recently as 1985, I remember all sorts of very clever people, both computer scientists and chess players, explaining why machines would never even reach Grandmaster standard.
Clarke's novel is a haunting, thoughtful story that betrays few of its many years (it was published in 1954!) and still reads like fresh SF.
It's a paradise, of sorts.Karellen and his species are soon named The Overlords, and the world settles into its new reality, the lives of the great mass of people massively improved.Creativity, however, suffers.
No new great artists.Science and technological research too suffers, as humanity loses motivation to create technologies that could never match the wonders of the Overlords, to create things the alien watchers clearly discarded centuries or even millennia ago.
I made a promise to my friend Jason: we traded recommendations for our favorites; he fulfilled his end of the bargain by reading my favorite scifi novel (Dune), so I read his.In recent times, I've shied away from scifi novels published 50+ years ago as I've been sucked into a good sounding stories only to be disappointed.
It's hard to stand up to time in the scifi genre when ideas move fast and what was once fantastic has become commonplace.
So...it gives me great pleasure to say that Childhood's End stood up perfectly.
Childhood's End proved to be a very readable book.
I could assimilate the simply written ideas of the author.
Through humanity's last creative gasp, then its last existential one, we see how the image of the Overlords shifts from Vassal to serf.
So the reason for the high score is that despite the rehashing of themes, this book still can provide fun to the purist, the hardened, the uninitiated, and the indifferent, the latter category to which I thought I belonged.
Parts of the book are dated or slightly clunky and they show the limitations of Clarke.
In this case, it’s the fate of humanity, and while I didn’t like Clarke’s interpretation, he succeeded in getting me to think about it and formulate some interpretations of my own.For those who may not have read the book, one day the Overlords’ immense spaceships appear in the sky over the major cities of Earth and proceed to enforce a benevolent dictatorship that creates a world government, eliminates poverty and ends the means to wage war – a golden age for humanity.
I don't know why I put off reading this for so long.
Read it now.
It's an easy read and you won't want to put it down.
This story spans a lot of time for such a small book, but it does so effortlessly and with such an eye for human nature and development.
The ideas that hold this story up are brilliant and revealed at nice intervals throughout the book.
A fantastic book to make you realise our size in the universe.
It's a complex book with complicated ideas, but it's so well written that you hardly have to make any effort.
5.0 Stars. One of Arthur C. Clarke's best novels and one of my personal favorites. This novel is one of the best ever written concerning the evolution of man into a higher order of being. Brilliantly conceived and poignantly executed, this is classic SF at its best. Nominee: Retro Hugo Award for best SF Novel of 1953.
Aykroyd is evidently quite a UFO buff, and during the documentary the discussion (What do UFOs want?) touched upon Clarke's book, Childhood's End. Well, I’m into UFOs. Saw one (at close range) when I was 13 or so.
In this case, you have a bundle of traditional science fiction tropes, Mankind on the verge of exploring the stars, impending nuclear confrontation, and, suddenly, a sky filled with very large alien ships, commanded by “Overlords.” But Clarke takes it further.
The human race is probably on the verge of nuclear disaster, when the Overlords show up in large ships positioned over the major cities of the world.
I was expecting this book to bore me to tears. Since the book is a classic, I had to give it a try. Clarke's sophisticated, yet easy to read prose had me riveted! While lacking to some degree in human character development, the plot, descriptions and depth of the story more than compensated. I wish Clarke had expanded on the details about how crime, poverty, class consciousness, religion and menial labor were eradicated. The book left me feeling moved, vaguely sad, yet hopeful about the future of humanity. I highly recommend it!
