https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/210885.The_Kingdom_of_the_Cults
Reading about the ancient world one gets the same sense from those who defended the Pagan cults and condemned the Christians who were springing up in their midst.From my point of view, this book is well researched and has both interesting historical material as well as making a painstaking effort to show how the beliefs put forth by the cults differ from orthodox Christian beliefs.
It goes without saying that in dealing with individuals one must respect their beliefs even as one tries to persuade them they are wrong.
i should add that my dad (a pastor) has a copy of this book... and i've read this book more like a handy resource/reference book; definitely not meant to be read from front to back. and the word "cult", loaded as it is, is clearly defined in the intro.what i love about this book is that for each 'cult' described, Martin compares it with th gospel of Jesus Christ. an interesting book and a must-read for those curious about the gospel and how it relates to other religions.
After I became a Christian I became an apologetics nut.Frankly, I read more stuff like Martin's book than I did the Bible itself. AS a result I probably knew more about cults than I did about Christianity and it's variants.I rate the book highly however because it still is a pretty good primer on aberrant and heretical sects and cults.
Finally!!! The Seventh-day Adventist church was fairly honest when Walter Martin asked what they really believed and they were classified as a cult in this 2003 edition!!!
Since the first edition was published in 1965, "The Kingdom of the Cults" has been the authoritative reference work on all major cult systems. This classic has been updated to cover New Age cults, Baha'i, and the Word of Faith movement, with over 50 percent new material. Dr. Walter Martin held four earned degrees, having received his doctorate from California Coast University in the field of Comparative Religions. Author of a dozen books and a half-dozen booklets and many articles, Dr. Martin died in 1989, a few months after completing his last book, The New Age Cult.
I used to own this book.
I used to read this book.
I tried reallyreally hard.
Of course, I wasn't very old when I was old enough to know that the theology in Stryper's lyrics wasn't much to brag about either.
And, were this book published today, you know for certain that even right=wingers like this guy would pluralize "kingdom".
[disclosure :: a certain person in my life is employed by an institution controlled by one of the organizations discussed in this volume.
hard to distinguish this institution from every other degrading capitalist entity]

The study of religion has always fascinated me.
However, this book is not an objective analysis of established religions and their sub-organizations, it is a nonstop lecture of how the author is right and everyone else is wrong.
Had the author presented his opinions and interpretations as well as those of the splinter groups he homes in on, and then stopped there to let the reader form his or her own opinion, fine.
But when told his opinion has validity and the others are faulty is tantamount to shoving his opinion down our throats.
Wars are fought over this kind of mentality.
The style the book is written in lends itself to reading particular sections as you need to. I haven't read the whole book, but have used it to base my own research on various cults on (previously Mormonism and now Jehovah's Witnesses). The book is very thorough and very well researched. Martin doesn't give opinions or hearsay in his treatment of cults, instead opting to quote heavily from the cults own publications to show what they really teach.
You can trust it to guide you in praying for and sharing the R-E-A-L Jesus with the diabolically misguided members of non-Jesus Following cults whom God brings across your path.
(1 Corinthians 2:14 & 2 Corinthians 4:4) By using the truths Mr. Martin shares, Holy Spirit will assist Followers of Jesus in staying on track and not being confused by demonic lies cultists are well-trained and parrot glibly and convincingly.
Mr. Martin can prayerfully assist you to bring cultists bound for a Godless eternity one step closer to Jesus ...which is each Follower's of His only job!
Have a family member in a cult like the Jehovah's Witnesses or Mormons? Maybe know someone dabbling in Christian Science? This is the book of books to go to to aid you in understanding what they believe, why they believe it, and gives Bible verses to show where they are erring so you can lovingly bring them to Good News of Jesus Christ aiding them in seeing there is nothing to grab onto in their false religion.Walter Martin was a gentle man who knew the cults and worked diligently to bring light to those who are stuck in them.
I met Dr. Walter Martin before he left this earth and he is one of the best and most knowledgeable researchers on cults--he gives all the facts (which are very interesting) and lets YOU see for yourself who those nice, pleasant (misguided) folks are that come knocking on your door.
Walter Martin is objective and thorough. If you want to learn about Christian Apologetics, this is the guy to start with.
Excellent resource!
When I come across a book that discusses a variety of religions the first thing I do is look up my own to see how the author treats it.
In the intro of the author picks a few points about many religions to set the mood of his book.
If the author can't recognize the Christlike efforts of a people serving the poor such as this, then I have no hope for the rest of the book.I'm OK reading books about people explaining their own religion.
But this author does nothing more than seed contention and misinformation about other groups who are honestly trying to live a moral and Christlike life.

Once I got this book out of the library, and began looking through it, I realised that I'd done the same thing when I was doing my Theology degree.
The author has nice things to say about people, no matter how "wrong" they may be in their beliefs, so the book comes across as well-meaning.
Unfortunately it feeds into the Us and Them mentality, and it fosters a continuing refusal to see the Bible as anything other than inerrant.
I still can't understand what that terrible need is, nor the hoops people jump through in order to try and show that the contradictions in the Bible aren't contradictory.
An Arminian Christian analysis of the major cults, though by his definitions he does not include the SDA church.He is very clear to point out the growth of the Mormon Church and of the Watchtower Bible and Tract Society and I believe this book remains something of a classic on the subject.Each cult is dealt with in a different chapter, with other chapters dealing with specific problems relating to cults (use of language &c)
Read this back in my anti-cult days when I thought I would like to have a website dedicated to refuting the heretical views of aberrant groups. I thought the book did a good job of clearly giving the history of a group and their theological diviations from historic Christianity.
I appreciated the first and last chapters the most -- authentic coaching from a background I trust.
Helpful and informative
Excellent.
I started reading this book early last year and just finished a few days ago.
We were told that all public records and documentation were lies created to discredit the JW's.
I left the group when I was around 16 years old.
There are many resources, but I really appreciate the detail this book contains and the references to original public records.I enjoyed it so much I read the entire book.
I learned much about other groups in the process.
There's alot to this book so I'm sure I'll be reading it again in the future.
Dr. Martin devoted his life to debunking the teaching of groups that used the name of Jesus and yet teach and practice things that are diametrically oposwed to the teaching of the Bible.
He was the host of the radio show "The Bible Answer Man" for at least 10 years, taking questions about cults, the Bible, and Christian practice.
Dr. martin also was the leader of a 'Bible ANswer Man' sunday school class at Melodyland Christian Center for some years, and was an adjunct professor at Melodyland School of Theology, Califiorna Christian College, and Simon Greenleaf School of Law and Apologetics.
I was hoping for a readable analysis and insight into different world religions.
The original work is more than 40 years old; this is an updated version.
Reviewers who laud this work claim it is the definitive work and a great resource for those who want to truly understand some of the world's religions.
Those on the opposite side of the reviewing fence shoot it down for its My Way or the Highway attitude along with misleading and false statements.
The fact that there could be such polar opposite reviews lead me to believe that it could be a fascinating read.
This is a thoroughly researched book detailing the differences between major cults and Biblical Christianity. Martin's arguments are backed by fact, and not opinion, and are extremely informative. I did read it straight through, and I did find the section on Seventh-Day Adventists a bit confusing, but it is a good reference book to keep on hand when wondering which religions believe and teach what. I am planning on reading The Kingdom of the Occult next.
This is THE well-researched debunking of the Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons (and lots of less prominent cults). Reading the man-centered, un-regenerate history of their origins, history, and doctrines closes the case that these are not well-intentioned but ignorant spin-offs of orthodox Christianity but evil creations that deadly twists of the gospel. I recommend finding the book in someone else's house or the bookstore and reading the Jehovah's Witness and Mormon sections.
Read the section on Jehovah's Witnesses somewhat closely and skimmed the sections on Mormonism and Christian Science. Interesting stuff but very heavily fundamentalist (right-wing) Christian leaning and obviously biased, even against more liberal brands of Christianity. I would use this to as a reference but would find it ineffective in convincing or converting anyone who subscribes to any of these "cults".
Excellent and thorough description of the different cults that exist throughout the world and especially in the United States. Martin gives a good background and history of various cults, especially those that pose as Christian denominations such as Jehovah's Witnesses, the Mormans and Christian Scientist.
The book is very thorough and very well researched. Martin doesn't give opinions or hearsay in his treatment of cults, instead opting to quote heavily from the cults own publications to show what they really teach.
