https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24109.How_to_Read_the_Bible_for_All_Its_Worth
This book is about the bible and its original intention, and how to read it in that context.
Fee and Stuart emphasize repeatedly the common mistake that many individual Christians(and most churches) make in twisting the scriptures - particularly the Old Testament - into somehow being about the present age, which it isn't!
This book is for anyone who is a critical thinker, whether Christian or not, who wishes to understand more fully the bible as it was meant to be read and understood: in the original context and as addressed to the original reader, and why.
The book provides an overview of how to understand the the tools, terminology and effective approaches to reading and understanding the Bible.Approachable?Gordon Fee taught at Regent College, which is known for providing a theological education for lay persons.
Still, it is a comprehensive book for most looking for an introduction to the Bible, how it is assembled and how it ought to be read.
I wonder if it is fair not to provide more significant information on differing opinions.
But the authors write with conviction and reading the Bible in a manner that does effect our living is often a challenge.
However, they treat the issues fairly, and from the standpoint of solid exegesis of the texts at hand, if not always in light of extended reflection on other pertinent texts in the New Testament.For a more technical presentation of the exegetical method taught here, see "old testament exegesis" and "new testament exegesis" by these two authors respectively.The book is exceptional, and I highly recommend it.
We are supposed to read and understand and love the word of God, but it is hard sometimes to do all of those things with a work of literature that was written thousands of years ago and half a world away.
I think that most Christians tend to think that since the Bible is a book apart from all other books that it should not be read in the same way that we read other works of literature.
The Bible is worth the time and study to learn how to read it and interpret it properly.
I recommend this book for any who need to learn how to read the Bible more precisely.* It was a great help for me, as it will be for you—particularly if you are accustomed to the all-too-common habit of "proof-texting"—i.e., lifting verses out of context and applying them according to one's own predetermined ideas.*Note: The fact is, many Christians--even Christians who can quote verses all day long--do not know how to read the Bible well.
Too many engage in "proof-texting" (see above).
Reading the Bible a lot, and being able to quote a lot of verses, does not eliminate the need for paying close attention to the text--and the context (literary, social/historical, etc.)--when one reads scripture.
This book seems to cover it all, and then some.The class and this book were eye-opening confirmation that justified much of my uneasiness with people who say, “it’s in there; you’re just not spiritual enough to find it,” or “trust me, everyone thinks XYZ passage means this, but God showed me [and only me] what it really means.”In one of the first sections, right there on page 23, it says, “Interpretation that aims at, or thrives on, uniqueness can usually be attributed to pride .
I think we all probably have our “pet” verses, and we desperately want them to mean what helps us to feel better.
I'd seen this book for years on the shelves of our local Christian bookseller.
I've picked the book up a few times, and put it down.
Finally I succumbed!Overall it's a helpful introduction to effective ways to study all types or genres of Bible books.
Exegesis is the study or explanation of biblical texts as they would have been understood by the original readers whereas hermeneutics is the interpretation or application of those texts into the modern readers context.Even though I've read the book in one hit, it's one to come back to as I'm reading that particular genre.
This was required reading for my Old Testament survey course in college in 2000. Hard to believe that so much time has passed since then (writing this in Jan. 2018), but I still turn to this book frequently and find it helpful. Not surprisingly, nearly every book that I have read since then about rightly handling Scripture quotes and/or cites Fee and Stuart at some point. In my mind, this is a classic primer on the subject.
I'd long understood that most abuses of biblical quotation and interpretation centered around either proof-texting, or a simple lack of thorough reading (not reading the verse before and after the verse in question, never mind taking the time to read the full paragraph or chapter it's actually found in.) But this book's orderly approach to gaining better perspective was enlightening to degrees that reminded me just how much I don't know I don't know.
It is also written to be at the level of the average layman who wants to understand more for their own study and growth.Evangelical Christians often get very nervous about this type of book.
It is a good thing!This is very worthwhile book for those who see the Bible as spiritually unique and also helpful for the student who simply wants to know how to understand it better.
I have read a lot of books about how to study the Bible. I used this book the past 6 months to teach the Adult CE class at my church on How to Study the Bible. This is by far the best book i've read on this topic. Practical. Accessible. Insightful. I recommend this as a must read for all believers.
Of particular note is the authors' contention that "narratives are precious to us because they so vividly demonstrate God's involvement in the world and illustrate his principles and calling." This statement articulates, perhaps even more than the discussion of the intricacies of narrative, the need for interpreters to properly evaluate historical genre.While the same pattern used for the exegesis of Old Testament is applicable to the study of Acts, the authors provide a separate treatment of this book since the majority of believers acknowledge that Acts serves as the "pattern for Christian behavior or church life." The hermeneutical analysis of Acts shares similarities with the analysis of the epistles, especially in the area of modern application of first century issues and concerns.
Fee and Stuart's book "How to Read the Bible for All Its Worth" is a MUST READ for all Christians. Their guidance on how to read the Bible with understanding is a safeguard against many of the common misinterpretations of passages of scripture which pervade Christian culture. In addition, they give their readers the tools to glean a much richer meaning of the text and to apply it to their lives well.
First of all, it talks about just about every book of the Bible possible.
It gives you a little historical context and background on the books.
It talks about the different pitfalls that can happen in reading these books and interpreting them.
It gives a lot of strong argument on reading passages in the context in which they were written, and not reading into the text or adding to it.
This was actually one of two books for my interpretation class, and I thoroughly enjoyed reading it, and would recommend it to anyone.
Wow, for a an easy to read book on how to properly understand and interpret the various genres of the books in the Bible Fee and Stuart's 'How to Read the Bible for all its Worth' is indeed worth a read.
Fee and Stuart have written in a style that avoids getting bogged down in overtechnical issues which means the average Christian ought to be able to engage with this book.
Yet Fee and Stuart do a marvellous job of showing the reader how each genre of the Bible functions in its own right and then providing clear guidance on how to engage with these genres.
What was really great about this book is the simplicity of it and the willingness to tackle some of the larger issues that the church at large struggle with. There is a companion book entitled How to read the Bible book by book, and it is well worth it to have alongside reading this book.
Everyone has a need to interpret the Bible and this book helps with tools that will help as some read but will not understand everything they read.
One thing that people forget while reading is they spent laborious days interpreting the Greek and Hebrew into what now is known as the Bible.
Learning to think Contextually is an area most do not consider while reading the various genres.
This should be a vital study itself when trying to understand the Bible.
This is just like the cover says "A practical approach to Bible study in an easy-to-understand style.
This book was fantastic.
It opened my eyes to a lot of important issues in exegesis.
It covers the different genres in the Bible, like epistles, narratives, poetry, etc., but also covers the Mosaic law, the Gospels, Psalms, and Revelation separately.
I wanted to single out a chapter that was more helpful than others, but I couldn't because they're all great.
I suppose my only reservation is the chapter on Bible translations which, while helpful, reads a lot like a long advertisement for the NIV 2011.I will for sure be keeping this book as a reference tool.
Great stuff!
This is an excellent book that was recommended to me by my pastors.
Although I have read the Bible through many times, the basics of interpretation were pretty much a mystery to me.
These authors are very clear about exegesis and hermeneutics.
I have friends who are literally afraid of any church that does not preach expositionally because they believe that is how the scriptures are distorted.
I believe that whether the Bible is preached topically or expositionally that an understanding of exegesis and hermeneutics is imperative and would spare the body of Christ a great deal of grief.
I highly recommend this book.
Fantastic from start to finish. I encourage all Christians, whether "seasoned veteran" or "newbie," this book will profoundly - yes, profoundly change how you think about the Bible, and how to read it with greater awareness and understanding. Of course, for those who believe, the Holy Spirit illuminates our understanding, but we also have the responsibility to increase our understanding through the tools available to us. And Drs. Fee and Stuart give an excellent primer to beginning the journey of sound Biblical study. This is excellent for all believers (and non-believers, too!).
A must for any Bible reader. Laymen should own this book as well as any serious scholar. Fee & Stuart are both very well respected NT & OT scholars. The book lays out some foundational truths that must be learned in order for interpretation to match what was originally intended by the biblical authors. Reading the text of Scripture is not the same as understanding the text of Scripture. This book will help guide you in your understanding of Scripture. Get the 3rd edition though, I just happened to have this older version on my bookshelf.
If you're a fan of the King James translation, then you WON'T like this book (which tosses out the KJV/NKJV, giving preference to the NIV/TNIV). However, the book gives a survey of the reasons why the KJV should be substituted for a newer translation. Also, as indicated by the title, the book does eventually discuss biblical interpretation (albeit, superficially). The best part of the book is the appendix, listing several sources for further, in-depth, study.
I learned a great deal from this book. This is an overview of the Bible and provides a way of approaching the Bible from its literary and historical context. I've had a pretty strong suspicion of theologians for years and I think for good reason; but any Bible student becomes a bit of a theologian just by reading the Word and forming views and opinions about what we've read. There are some practical guidelines offered in this book that I think are useful.
I would not usually say any non-fiction is amazing, but this one is really helpful. It is well written and clarifies so much. The authors give great advice, but more than that they help give you tools you can use to begin to understand and demystify the scriptures for yourself. I almost always try to refresh myself before doing a Bible study or preaching with this handy guide. Very useful and user friendly. Chapters are divided most intuitively.
I read this for school, but being raised Catholic I never got to the core of what the Bible really entailed. This book helps in understanding biblical text and explains the need for a good interpretation of it. If you want to explore spirituality and learn more about God this book will be very helpful.
I love this book. In addition to the Bible itself, this is one book that every person should read, especially those who are believers. It helped me understand basic issues surrounding biblical interpretation and, in many ways, changed (for the better) the way I read the Bible.
Very good book to help you understand and to do justice to the different literay genres of the Bible
Second, we must learn to hear that same meaning in the variety of new or different contexts of our own day; we call this second task hermeneutics...the original meaning of the text--as much as it is in our power to discern it--is the objective point of control...And this brings us back to our insistence that proper 'hermeneutics' begins with solid 'exegesis.'"Scripture was written to be understood and interprets itself, but we have to pay attention and ask the right questions to get at the meanings.
The importance and practical application of proper exegesis and hermeneutics are what Gordon Fee and Douglas Stuart teach in this book.
Second, we must learn to hear that same meaning in the variety of new or different contexts of our own day; we call this second task hermeneutics...the original meaning of the text--as much as it is in our power to discern it--is the objective point of control...And this brings us back to our insistence that proper 'hermeneutics' begins with solid 'exegesis.'"Scripture was written to be understood and interprets itself, but we have to pay attention and ask the right questions to get at the meanings.
What were some new insights you gained from this book? Gordon D. Fee and Douglas Stuart fill their text How to read the Bible for all its worth with great advice for analyzing the scripture, and nuggets of wisdom for both the novice and experienced reader. Since I consider myself in the former category, I was satisfied with the amount of new content I learned. I could share many new insights, but I will select just a few.This may seem like a small item, but the way Fee and Stuart differentiated
I could share many new insights, but I will select just a few.This may seem like a small item, but the way Fee and Stuart differentiated the terms “exegesis” and “hermeneutics” was very helpful to me; even though hermeneutics can generally refer to both ancient meaning and contemporary application, they use the term to refer strictly to contemporary application, while exegesis is about ancient meaning and purpose.
As I mentioned before, I am a student and a novice when it comes to reading the scripture at an academic level, so much of what Fee and Stuart wrote was new to me and helpful.
