https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22326.Virtual_Light
William Gibson begins his Bridge trilogy with this 1993 publication that was nominated for both the Hugo and the Locus awards.In the air of great protagonist names won hands down by Neal Stephenson in his 1992 cyberpunkapalooza Snow Crash with Hiro Protagonist, Gibson introduces us to Chevette Washington, a messenger living on the Bay Bridge between San Francisco and Oakland who gets caught up in corporate espionage surrounding some stolen glasses.But these are not just any glasses, they produce virtual light, enabling the viewer to see more than reality, and this is not just the Bay Bridge, this is Gibson’s world building after devastating earthquakes and after tumultuous socioeconomic and political upheavals.Taking off from his archetypal Sprawl series, Gibson gives us another foray into a near future cyberpunk landscape that mesmerizes as it entertains.
I felt like Gibson created a cool world for the story to take place in, but then just never wrote the story. A messenger nabs some VR glasses and gets the help of some ex-cop blah... who cares? He just never got me to care about the characters or their conflicts.I wanted to hear more about the dystopian California-states and the fancy VR itself, but then all Gibson wanted to talk about Berry and Chevette.3 stars purely because of the world Gibson dreamed up, but if you're looking for a good story you should probably try elsewhere.
Not Gibson's best work, but still thoughtful. The whole cyberpunk genre is a valuable exploration of ideas about our near future. A future within reach of many who are alive today.
Was rather disappointed by this one, and I'm starting to get the feeling that Gibson's been writing the same book over and over.
While the technology mattered in Gibson's Sprawl trilogy, Virtual Light seemed more like a on-the-run-from-bad-guys thriller set in a vagueishly sci-fi setting.
The tech that was stolen could have just as well been a candy bar.
I wanted to find out more about the plan on the tech (to rebuild San Fran after an earthquake), the Bay Bridge community, and all the other interesting bits that Gibson created.
I'm re-reading the early Gibson because I remember liking them and I can't keep the books straight.
Virtual Light stands as high-quality, maybe one of his more underrated titles, at least to me, upon a second reading, because except for a somewhat abrupt ending, the novel is excellent.
The book's true star is the bridge, and if Gibson ever releases a "greatest hits" of passages from his work, his initial description of the bridge deserves a place of honor.
He's one of the best, one of my favorites, really, and his early work holds up.
Last week Kevin Mitnick was on The Colbert Report to promote his new book,  Ghost in the Wires  and talk about hacking. For those of us who grew up with the Web as a fact of life and absorbed "hacker culture" through Hollywood, Mitnick's experiences seem somewhat alien. Hacking started long before the Web, of course, and even today hacking is nothing like what one sees on the movies. However, it's just in this decade that we, as a society, are beginning to understand and react to the effects of
With Virtual Light, it feels like Gibson is looking at hacker culture, and its effects on society, from the other side now.
Nevertheless, Gibson turns them into tools for making information free.Virtual Light is a little confusing at first.
This trust is useful, because we can react a lot more quickly when the information comes to us instantaneously—but as Rydell learns, it is dangerous too.
I think it does something useful and interesting, from its portrayal of hackers to the importance of securing the information that comes into Rydell and Chevette's possession.
Read "Snow Crash" by Neal Stephenson instead.
The last time I read this book was in the mid-90s. It came out in 1993, nine years after Gibson's Neuromancer, the novel that coined the phrase "cyberspace" and posited a world where we'd all be interconnected through an information network. He was wrong about the virtual reality stuff, but right about almost everything else. If Neuromancer was somewhat predictive of the future, Virtual Light reads like someone had gone to the future of 2005 and sent a postcard back to us. Reading it now and rea
Chevette Washington lives on the Bay Bridge in San Francisco (the suspension side, not the cantilever side; it makes a difference in the book).
Things like jumping in time chronologically, using objects for something different than they had been intended for, and characters with convoluted pasts dealing with the situations they find themselves in now, are themes I recognize in my writing.
Like the bridge in the story, it all melds together to form a new place, a new setting, and a new way to look at things.
Great sociological science fiction with a cool vibe and, in my opinion, a vast improvement over Gibson's previous Sprawl trilogy. Some scary observations on 90's culture and crackling prose with a cool kind of dialogue for Gibson's characters. A brilliant piece of cyberpunk literature.
If Haruki Murakami and Philip K Dick had ever written a book together this would have been it (they didn't have no baby or anything though).
To me it felt like Philip's story but in the voice of Murakami.
There are a fair number of characters, all having little bit parts, I only really had an issue with one of then, Yamazaki, I could see the point of including him, was he telling the story or not?
Bene pras... ne, paprasčiausia maestro knyga. Neįmantrus bad future bajavičiokas, kuris tačiaugi susiskaitė lengvai ir greitai. Aišku tikėjaus iš pirmos The Bridge trilogijos knygos aš daugiau ir todėl tik mažiukas #Recom nuo #LEBooks #VirtualLight
This is basically Snow Crash Lite.William Gibson wrote an occasionally entertaining novel of an interesting possible future with some very good observations about humanity BUT it's characters and story structure are so similar to Neal Stephenson's masterpiece of the genre that you can't help but compare.
I cannot see how the sequel relates to the world created in this first book in any way, unless it was set quite a long time afterwards.
The third part apparently contains characters from the first two books so perhaps that will enlighten me.
Essentially you have a good cop accidentally getting railroaded, a good poor person who makes one mistake and pays the price, and then some evil corporation stuff and then it's just a fun little chase.
WHY?); there is a cure from AIDS that feels simple even for how stupidly simple it is, and doesn't really fit into any sort of thematic package with the chase them or corporate conspiracy angle; there is a discussion about the rich and the displaced, but it is mangled, like the memory of an old man in the story, and has no sense or reason, even as a basic human response to outside stimuli.
I mean, it was fun and fast paced and interesting and an interpretation of our social future, and it had lots of interesting background choices of historical events and crazy urban tribes and religions created for the universe, along with Gibson's trademark shifting POVs and archetypal characters.
It was good, it was fun, it was interesting, but it didn't have the oomph that other of his stories had for me.This might be because the central plot, the theft of a device that contains information about an urban development, wasn't exactly...
it's like, out of a book full of amazing stories to be told, and the central one isn't quite as interesting.
ηταν σαν να ξετυλιγες πολλά κουβάρια και στο τέλος τα έβρισκες άσχημα μπλεγμενα.
ο συγγραφέας ξεκινά με το στησιμο του κοσμου του ο οποιος ειναι αρκετα παρων καθ' όλη την αναγνωση.
υστερα αρχίζει να διαγραφεται αχνα μια ιστορια η οποια ωστόσο δεν εχει αρκετή συνοχή ή ένταση οσο ο ιδιος χωρος.
επειτα αλλαζει η ροη αφήγησης αναλογα με την οπτικη καθε προσωπου.
το αποτελεσμα ειναι καπως χλιαρό, όπως οταν βλέπεις μια ταινια και δεν ακους τους διαλογους αλλα το σαουντρακ.
τρια αστερια μόνο και μονο για την ερευνα που φαινεται πως εχει γινει επανω στη πολεοδομικη δυστοπια και την οικειοποιηση εγκαταλελειμμενων χώρων- υποδομών
Storyline: 3/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: ?/5World: 3/5Whenever I start a cyberpunk novel, I think, "Oh no, not another one of those." I dread the jagged, clipped sentence structure and the bitingly hip timbre.
I liked this much more than I did Neuromancer, which I think is generally regarded as both his and the genre's seminal novel (Oddly, my cover advertises Gibson as the author of The Difference Engine and Mona Lisa Smile but omits Neuromancer).
I did think it odd to have so many similarities between this and another 1990s cyberpunk novel(view spoiler)[ Neal Stephenson's Snow Crash (hide spoiler)].
As far as the main story goes - a girl, in a pique, steals some special glasses from a guy, which results in her being chased by bad guys and helped by the main character.
If I am to rate this novel strictly on the main storyline it would get 2 stars...tops.Then there is the sub-plot.
Outside of the fact the heroine lives there, and hardly focuses on that, this subplot really goes nowhere in relation to the main story.
In rating world building, this novel is a solid 5 star.Sadly, world building alone is not enough to give a weak story a high rating.
Having read about 70% of Gibson's work, I'd have to say, this is one of my favorites.Tight plot. Rapid movement and action. Dystopian, but not too depressingly so (sort of). Well done book, looking forward to the rest of the trilogy.
Fallon looked like a possum with hair-implants and a ten-thousand-dollar tuxedo.Synopsis: In post-apocalyptic California, two people's lives collide.
Rydell, a rent-a-cop who attracts trouble like *ahem* honey attracts flies, and Chevette, just a girl in the wrong place at the wrong time, unaware that she's stepped in it, bigtime, on an international espionage scale.Chevette Washington escaped from a juvie facility in Oregon and made something of herself when she came down to NorCal, the post-earthquake nation that is emphatically not SoCal. Specifically, she found a job as a bike courier and a home on the rogue mob-taken Golden Gate Bridge.
It's kind of reassuring, actually - Gibson seems to have moved away from the shiny appeal of tech and its futurist promise to use the future to illustrate that no matter the advances, there's always going to be shitbags around.
Whether he's depicting shitbags or "better" people, Gibson's eye for detail is great.
Chevette is another well-drawn character, a kind of refinement (sans razor-nails) of Molly Millions, and the descriptions of her paper-sculpted pedalling along the hills of San Francisco inspire the reader to grab a bike.
These are well-drawn characters who you like, goddamnit.
Great book!I will be recording a podcast episode on this here shortly, which will be available here, The Nerd Book Review but a quick and dirty review.
I read SnowCrash before this novel and really enjoyed it.
After reading this though my rating for SnowCrash has gone down a bit.
This novel does dystopian the right way.
The world feels so dirty and unfair.
A girl makes a poor decision and steals something from the wrong people.
That decision leads to a series of actions with an ending that is very satisfying.
Good. Just good. It was more action/suspense than sci-fi as one might expect. I think I would probably have rated this higher if:1 - I read it around the time it was published. Some the futuristic, sci-fi parts are reality now, so the novelty of those parts didn't have the punch they probably once did. "Oh, we have that now. Neat."2 - I hadn't read Snow Crash first. Snow Crash was/is excellent.
Gibson's world-building is characteristically strong. The plot, pacing and development of characters seemed off a step.A middling effort, but I finished it. I'm not one to finish a book just for the sake of finishing it - something needs to keep me going and this novel did. Luckily it's short length aided in reading one of Gibson's lessor works. Even a lessor work of Gibson's is better than most. Every writer is allowed books that don't quite hit the mark, especially if they, like Gibson, have provided so many that do.
Utisak nije baš bio najpovoljniji tokom većeg dela romana, delovalo je kao da je ovo možda najslabija Gibsonova knjiga ali onda je odjednom sve došlo na mesto, uključujući čak i otrcane žanrovske trope. Kuriozitet je da ovde imamo ne jednog nego čak dva srpska lika, i obojica su relevantni za zaplet, iako u pozadini istog. Jedan je zavisnik od virtuelnog seksa kojem zdipe Mekgafin naočare a drugi je imigrant i stanodavac jednog od glavnih likova. Ime Voli, prezime Divac. :-D
As a teenager, I remember I loved William Gibson. I loved Neuromancer. Now, after reading this book, I'm no longer sure. His writing skills are sound, but just couldn't get interested in a story about some lost VR glasses. I think that Gibson spent too much time creating a world for this story, in this very short book, that he left out what would make it an interesting story. Eh, that's okay. A friend told me that Neuromancer was the only decent thing he wrote anyway.
Fans of his earlier work (the Sprawl series) will notice some drop in the amount of technical forecasting since the story is a mere 13 years in the future (the story is set in 2006, the book was published in 1993), but any sense of loss is compensated in the growth of social and cultural aspects he portrays.The writing style is very terse, but communicates volumes in the short phrases.
I often don’t picture a lot of detail in my mind when reading, but Gibson is so convincing in his elaborations that I feel like I’m actually there in his hypothetical future.What Virtual Light lacks in plot or character development is more than compensated for in atmosphere.
This is excellent! I liked it much more than all three novels in the Neuromancer trilogy (not that I didn't like those a lot). The idea of the repurposed Golden Gate Bridge is ingenious and inspirational. The two main characters are both likable and easy to root for.Of course, this IS a dystopian novel, and there is much in it that is chilling and sometimes uncomfortably prescient.
La San Francisco post-catastrofe, con le persone che hanno occupato il ponte di Oakland ormai in disuso e vi abitano, ha un suo fascino, soprattutto per chi ama la fantascienza post-apocalittica (anche se non è il mio caso), e mette in luce l'immensa fantasia dell'autore.
Non me ne vogliano i fan di Gibson, ma personalmente ritengo che la lettura debba essere intrattenimento, mentre in questo caso mi sono spesso annoiata e sono rimasta pure delusa dal finale sbrigativo e sotto tono rispetto a tutto il resto.
I had truly forgotten everything about Virtual Light, but struggled through just to say I'd read it again before freeing it.::: NoCal and SoCal, or Gibson As Done By John Jakes :::Virtual Light is set in 2005, which may have seemed a long way off back in 1993, but makes the book even more painful when you read it "in the present." In Gibson's 2005, California is actually two separate entities: NoCal and SoCal, and the Golden Gate Bridge is little more than an elaborate junkyard civilization comprised of homeless people.
With Virtual Light, he hits way too close to the present for the story to be very believable.
I sort of regret that this was my first Gibson book... I bet his others were better. The world is pretty much like what you'd expect from 90's cyberpunk, but I couldn't get into the characters. It's a little like Snowcrash, but not as bad.
