https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/966769.Market_Wizards
This is a re-read of one of my top 10 investment books.
What do Bruce Kovner, Paul Tudor Jones and Jim Rogers have in common?
They are some of the best investors of all time and they are among the hedge fund managers interviewed in this book.
Imagine top investors explaining what they do!
Most of these guys invest not only in equities, but also in currencies, commodities etc.
as "macro" investors so it's good to broaden one's perspective.
Most of the investment tenets usually apply no matter what the asset class is.
As the title indicates this book consists of a series of interviews with some of the best most successful traders in the world.Not only does this book cover a wide variety of trading techniques, it also covers a wide variety of markets as well (treasuries, futures, commodities etc.).
The book also sheds light on the personal traits and characteristics of successful traders.
Because I have so many friends who are talented traders, I often have to remind myself that if I try to trade their way, or on their ideas, I am going to lose.
It really didn't do anything for me. The majority of the traders gave very dry and mostly-uninteresting responses. Despite Schwager's desperate attempts to paint colorful bios and make the traders more memorable, you're essentially reading the same thing over and over again. It's so repetitive that I'd recommend flipping to the afterword and memorizing the points in summary. Then, look up each trader and pick the ones that most interest you.
If you have eight highly correlated positions, then you are really trading one position that is eight times as large.The general rule is: The less observed, the better the trade.If you don't work very hard, it is extremely unlikely that you will be a good trader.First, I would say that risk management is the most important thing to be well understood.
It takes one day to tear down something that might have taken ten years to build.I know from studying history that credit eventually kills all great societies.Don't focus on making money; focus on protecting what you have.“In trading, just as in archery, whenever there is effort, force, straining, struggling, or trying, it’s wrong.
The summations at the end of the interviews were as valuable as the interviews themselves.It is clear that no matter how spectacular and consistent the success of any of these traders, they all approach their mutual fascination from the standpoint that they are a work in progress, and that no one masters the market, any more than a surfer masters the ocean.The final interviews dealt directly with how one's experience with investing is but a reflection of one's own psyche, and how one can use this insight to improve oneself.Having said that, while there were unanimous similarities in the traders methods and practices, there were also stark contrasts between their beliefs.
Most started with very little capital and were able to build a successful trading mentality by developing a discipline that worked for them during certain market environments.
Each trader has fundamental trading rules that are followed in a very strict sense.
Most claim there losses are a result of not following there own rules.
This book reveals that each of these successful traders has a passion and love for trading, as it appears that is what made them successful.In the last interview, Dr. Tharp has completed a study that suggests 3 factors in duplicating successful trading beliefs, mental states, and mental strategies.
The interviews were not designed to highlight specific trading techniques....at least not to the extent of instructional.
The most valuable feature of the interviews was the common patterns in thinking found amongst these traders.
For example, viewing trading as a business; disciplined risk control; hard (very) work; learning to lose without fear or ego injury; etc.
The only downsides to the book were the repetition and shallowness of some subjects....there were many times when I wished Mr. Schwager to probe deeper into an interesting or provocative response.
One that I think all serious traders should read, but it is not a book you cannot put down.
Probably the best book I've read on the Markets so far.
I got so much out of this book, in a much deeper philosophical sense rather than actual techniques these traders employ.
If you're like me, who doesn't have friends that are serious Traders or Investors, let alone Legendary Status Traders as per the Market Wizards interviewed in this book, this book is the closest thing to meeting your life changing mentor.
Plenty of different styles these millionaires use, different views to the market and common rules they live by in the markets.
Must read if you're a serious trader.
Most important lessons I learned from this book have to do with risk management. Even if you don't want to be a trader, you can generalize a lot of the strategies used by the interviewees and become more adept at understanding, calculating, and responding to risk.
A must read for aspiring traders I think.This book opened my eyes on how professionals think, and trade.Nowdays people want to learn from forumes and youtube videos from the so-called "gurus" or "High impact members" etc. And this couldnt be farther from the truth. After reading this book I decided that I wont hang on those crappy forums anymore, but I will read more intellectual material such as this book.Thank you Mr. Schwager!
This is not a how-to book rather it offers insights into what has made some of the most successful traders in the financial markets that way. The bottom line is there is only work, work and work. Also a little focus wouldn't hurt either. Despite what is portrayed in the popular media the traders interviewed in the book do not have expensive Ivy League educations for the most part.
This book is a collection of interviews! There are some real characters in this book including the guy who divorced his wife because she wanted a TV and a sofa but he refused because he wanted to invest that money!
Great book. Learn from the best. Must read for anyone that is looking to improve their trading. Learned from this book the importance of trading in a manner that is unique to your personality and way of thinking in order to achieve success in this field.
For trading not investing. But gave it three stars because they don't share any details about how they made money trading just details about when they made and lost money. Didn't actually get insight into how they actually did it.
A really great book. If you are interested in trading and how the stock market works, I can really recommend this book. I found it particularly interesting that the way you trade the markets reflects the person you are, but also how you can change your thinking and be more successful.
Very entretaining book, escential to anyone who is into trading.. You may not lear a lot out of it, since most of the concepts most traders mention are common knowdlege nowadays, but it makes a great and inspiring reading.
Great read. Inspirational, educational. Maybe a bit too long, but a good read.
A must-read read, I think, as everyone told.
It taught us that there are different style of trading and market. But the most important thing is discipline. Once you can mantain discipline and hard work, you'll probably have more chance to win.
a classic investment book, i think these ideas are still relevant today.
Hugely overrated by amateur home 'traders'.
Excellent insight from some of the top money people. It reminded me of the big mistakes I made and I believe the psychology chapter is very interesting. I will take another look at that chapter.
The original. Good stories, pretty entertaining
Average book
I thought of trading as an easy way to lose money in the markets; as gambling.This book, however, changed my perspective about it.
All of the market wizards interviewed in this book are people who have been able to turn small amounts of money into fortunes by trading successfully during long periods of time.
Just as a proffesional poker player knows how to play the odds to his favor, top traders know their craft.The book is full of advice, ideas and great insights from the market wizards.
Paul Tudor Jones: "The idea that people affiliated with Wall Street know something".
Some of my favourite investment reads have always been the monthly issues of publications such as Outstanding Investor s Digest and Value Investor Insight. Why? Because of the simple but brilliant idea that as a reader you feel like you are effectively eavesdropping on a conversation between two brilliant investors. By utilizing this format, you can garner a lot of knowledge about an investor, his/her philosophy and whether his/her methods and reasoning actually resonates with your own (of utter
As one interviewee says: “When I was starting out, I found biographies and interviews particularly helpful, and I would like to play a similar role in helping new traders.”Another reason for why the book has been so successful is the aspect of “something for everyone”.
On that token, to me the best interviews are with Michael Steinhardt (for the part of his fund that dealt with long-duration stock picking), Paul Tudor Jones (for his insights into the psychology of trading and his mental toughness) and Jim Rogers (for his value-oriented approach and great humbleness).
Schwager makes the distinction that investing means picking a collection of stocks that will bring long-term returns, while trading means studying price variations to make short-term returns.The best and most common advice given from the book is to "do your homework" and this is emphasized by Schwager at the end, when he himself realizes that writing this book left him no time to study how to improve his trades.
His wish to make a little more for the purchase $350,000 led him to wait too long on his trade, when it suddenly started decreasing.This book provides expert advice to newcomers, and despite having a male-only perspective of being a trader, provides varied and interesting tips that are surely relevant in today's markets.
It's a fun book as Jack Schwager manages to talk to some famous traders about how they view the game.
much like his target audience, is asking questions looking for ways to become a trading titan himself.
The language is all extremely natual and questions earnest.
one trader talks about when they introduced put options to the pit for the first time.
Many of the traders came from the commodity pits, which is either a testament to the times or perhaps more so the leverage potential.
I wonder if the next generation of traders will be the kids that cut their teeth and got wiped out on the recent crypto boom?
This text was published in the late 80s, and therefore all of the interviews encompass a time period in trading that was very different from now.
The trading platforms, systems, and volume are much more sophisticated, and grander in scale today.
Athough trading systems, platforms, and scale may change, the concept of trading (i.e. gambling) itself is immemorial.
And with that being said, certain winning traits in one's attitude as it pertains to trading should be germane in any situation no matter what time period or market someone is trading in.
The “interview “format of this book picks the brains of some of the best traders from Wallstreet.
It gives you the mapping, the different trading styles and pointers for any kind of trader (whether novice or advanced).
Most of the traders recommend sticking to a rigid risk control.
Know that you will loose on trades but remember that a losing trade that adheres to a profitable strategy is still a good trade because if repeated many times, it will win on balance.
Most importantly, the author summarizes that finding your “own” strategy is what counts in your own quest for trading success.
