https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27344.The_Sense_of_Wonder
I read this as I sat outside at the playground on a 65-degree January day. It doesn't seem right to read it inside. Carson's writing is so beautiful, and her descriptions of things as minute as green aphids and sand dollars are so majestic that the book made me want to pay much closer attention to everything around me. The Sense of Wonder is about helping children to see the magic in nature so that when they are older they'll want to learn more about it.
This is written to/about her nephew & the sense of wonder she enjoyed with him exploring nature when he was a child. According to the forward, she intended to expand on it, but I'm glad she didn't. She repeated herself a bit as it was. Excellent advice on introducing a child to nature, though. Something every adult who guides a child should read.
"If a child is to keep alive his inborn sense of wonder, he needs the companionship of at least one adult who can share it, rediscovering with him the joy, excitement and mystery of the world we live in."- Rachel Carson"If I had influence with the good fairy who is supposed to preside over the christening of all children, I should ask that her gift to each child in the world be a sense of wonder so indestructible that it would last throughout life."—Rachel CarsonVan Morrison’s “A Sense of Wonder”:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rhMk_...The lyrics to that song, if you have trouble following Van ☺:https://www.azlyrics.com/lyrics/vanmo...I’ve read this Carson (the author also of Silent Spring) essay many times but am thinking of the environment more these weeks as the bath-water-warm seas intensify the angry-hurricane season in this early fall, 2017, so I listened to a reading of this short essay on the importance of having a sense of wonder (especially with respect to nature) as one grows up.
A very short memoir that Ms Carson intended to expand but death came before she could. She describes her days and weeks on the Maine seashore and the wonder she felt examining rocks, sand, crabs, stars, clouds. She tries to instill in the reader the responsibility adults have to help children discover the wonder around them. I wish I had read it as a young father. This book is hard to find, but, Amazon has it a paper back and Kindle.
ABSOLUTELY FABULOUS.
I encountered the work of Rachel Carson when I was 16 years old. I was both moved and inspired by her book Silent Spring that explored issues of the toxic impact of man-made chemicals within the human environment. In the Sense of Wonder the reader encounters a uniquely poetic side of this forward thinking and spot on 20th century scientist....
Chills of DelightRachel Carson is a master of capturing the reader's attention and holding it while filling them with a yearning for a deep relationship with the natural world. Her writing is simple, unassuming and accessible to a young and open mind as well as an older steadfast hardened reader.As she strives to instill a lifelong love affair for discovery into young Rodger, she does likewise for the reader fortunate enough to tag along.A short and simple work worthy of any reader's time.
This is very short but says so much about teaching a child by just being with them, exploring together, allowing them to ask questions - don't fill their heads with facts (necessarily), but with a sense of wonder. Beautifully written. Will have to read more by Carson.
caught this on Audible's new "Channels" feature. It was a lovely memoir from Carson about her walks with her young nephew, starting at around 2years old.
Luminous.
A stunning book - for both its words and its pictures.Lovely to share with children.
This is an excellent book to give as a family gift. I recieved it as a baby shower present and was delighted with it.
You can still drink in the beauty, and think and wonder at the meaning of what you see.”What I love about Rachel Carson is she’s a scientist first and foremost, but completely defies the (undeserved) stereotype of scientists as callous robots.
She takes time to be awe-inspired and set aside thinking for feeling, but never needs to invoke the supernatural to do so.“The lasting pleasures of contact with the natural world are not reserved for scientists but are available to anyone who will place himself under the influence of earth, sea and sky and their amazing life… Those who dwell, as scientists or laymen, among the beauties and mysteries of the earth are never alone or weary of life.
This is a sweet book that will remind you why you were drawn to Waldorf or Charlotte Mason, or A Thomas Jefferson Education, or any other delight-led educational philosophy.
Rachel Carson is clearly a creative earth mother type of person with a talent for poetical writing and a love of children.
To learn from her prose and the pictures chosen to accompany them was an hour of pleasure for me.
This is a brief read, and therefore perfect for a busy homeschooler, parent, grandparent, aunt, or uncle.
Take the time to peruse its pages.
It will refresh and rejuvenate your sense of wonder.
This book is incredibly special and never more relevant. So prescient in its acknowledgement of man's loss of appreciation of nature, it could have been written yesterday.I shall treasure this book forever, recommend it to everyone (especially family and friends), and attempt to live by it's values.It'll only take you 25 minutes, but it might have a huge effect on your wellbeing.
Absolutely beautiful. It made me think of who gave me my sense of wonder in the natural world and how I could pass that on to my children. It also started me thinking about where I can find more of that wonder here in a much more manicured setting than where I grew up. I vowed to be much more creative and get out more. An excellent book.
I needed to read this book at this moment. Always happiest when outdoors and when sadness creeps in and I feel depressed I can see the disconnect between me and nature. A book filled with beautiful ideas, stories and photographs.
Just picked this up from the hold shelf!
A beautiful reminder to step outside and enjoy the world we live in with our littles.
Rachel Carson speaks with compassion in this short piece, capturing her emotional responses from her observations in nature.
This piece is directed toward those not already enamored with nature, to urge them out and away from technology into the more natural.
Unfortunately, I noticed that some readers could not grasp the significance of this work in today's world, they could not appreciate the poetic language, or even determine from the title that pathos would be Carson's best methodological choice.
The piece is more of an essay than a chapter book.
A book beautiful in ideas and photography.
Within are ideas easily employed by any nature novice as well as an expert who wishes to encourage a wider and deeper love of the world outside our window.
Rachel Carson's wording is not lofty or patronizing.
She remarks on the beauty and magic of being out of doors in what can be referred to as "unseasonable" weather.The photographs are rich in color and varied in perspective.
Nick Kelsh's lens opens the door to the eyes which Rachel Carson's words open to the mind.
A sweet and in its way important little book, a book about simply opening one's senses to the wonders that can be found in nature, The Sense of Wonder is not only about the sense that is natural in young people but also about maintaining that sense into and throughout adulthood.
The words by Rachel Carson are much simpler that her writing in Silent Spring and, in fact, this is a book one could read in a leisurely half an hour.
It's only weakness is that, at least in this edition that I read, published in 1965, the photos are rather dated in their quality, something, I'm guessing, that has probably been corrected in more recent editions.
Worth a read regardless.

The city and civilization seems far away in Rachel Carson's memoir about sharing nature with a young child, in this case, her grand nephew, Roger.
I especially appreciated that when the photographer, Nick Kelsh, came upon Rachel Carson's text about how to create wonder and awe in a child for nature, he instantly wanted to bring it to life for a new generation with his own photos.
What a lucky child it would be to have a parent primed to share the awe and wonder of the natural world.
This book is an inspiring introduction to Rachel Carson's writings.

Rachel Carson, one of the science writers who kick-started North America's environmental awareness, writes this short (really short) book about introducing a young child to the wonders of the natural world on the coast of Maine. It's simple, direct, and inspirational. It brought me back to my own exploring as a child, and the joy of discovery in a pond or field. Recommended for those who need the occasional reminder that it's a big, beautiful world out there.
3 stars - as with all rachel carson writing, i enjoyed it, but you can definitely tell this was unfished. i wish this was a full fleshed out book as i enjoyed the premise of it, it made me think about how i view nature and how that has changed from how i viewed it as a little kid. my mom gifted me this book but she hasn't read it yet, so i am excited for her to read and see what she thinks, considering it is for parents and children.
Rachel Carson is a writer with a passionate knowledge of nature. She understands the importance of experiencing nature first-hand in many situations, whether it is raining or snowing, day or night. She is able to convey the importance of showing children (in this case her nephew Roger) what nature is in a non-judgmental way. This leads to a life-long love of being outdoors.
A beautiful and timeless piece on how to instil a love of nature in a child. Few things could be more important, and yet sadly it is something very few of us think about, let alone take time to do. The edition I read has included some amazing photographs by Nick Kelsh.
A very sweet and touching essay. Though I think I would have preferred the first edition without the photographs. Having no pictures would have inspired me more to both memory and a desire to go out of doors and see it all for myself once again!
