https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90992.The_Unfortunates
As is frequently the case with the books I’ve been reading, this isn’t one for everyone—it could be, but it won’t be, as it should be, yes, no, maybe, perhaps.The narrator, one B.S. Johnson, travels to a city to cover a soccer match for a newspaper, and the travel, the pre-match wandering through the city, the sights, all conspire to remind the narrator of an old friend, now deceased, who had been a good friend and trusted ally in the narrator’s budding career as a writer.
It reinforces the idea that no two readers ever read the same book.If you’re lucky enough to have a copy at hand, take a moment.
‘How can I place his order, his disintegration?’Through fragments of a randomized collection of memories called up while wandering through a city, the reader explores the life, loves and losses of the narrator.
The random approach, which may initially be dismissed as cutesy and gimmicky, manages to go deeper and beyond the gimmick and explore the implied meanings we place upon order.
In the Hungarian translation of the book, which was published as a regularly bound novel, Johnson included a special introduction urging the reader to still experience the chapters at random, stressing that ‘perhaps the point...of the novel in it’s original format; the tangible metaphor for the way the mind works’.
In his note to the reader, Johnson encourages him to choose: read the chapters in the order in which they arrive or rearrange them before beginning.
And so begin the twenty-five randomly arranged chapters that alternate between the present and the past, between Johnson’s day in Nottingham and his memories of Tony.(I should mention here that the “novel” is entirely autobiographical.
You can’t help but read it randomly, the memories coming without provocation, occurring as arbitrarily as the order in which you receive the book.
Autobiográfica y experimental, Los desafortunados tiene una estructura imposible sin orden (ni físico ni literal) que hace que apenas pueda ser considerada como novela. Johnson consigue de este modo hacer llegar sus sentimientos al lector de la forma más honesta y pura que es posible recordar en toda la historia de la literatura. Reseña completa:http://www.libros-prohibidos.com/b-s-...
Unlike some of the other gimmicky books I've read (House of Leaves, The Raw Shark Texts), you don't get the impression that B.S. Johnson was patting himself on the back for being clever as he wrote this.
If the introduction is to be believed, he actually probably was patting himself on the back as he wrote it, but you wouldn't know it to read it.
The chapters of the book are unbound, and meant to be shuffled and (with the exception of the first and last chapters) read in a random order, in an attempt to translate the non-linear nature of memories into a written format.
the content is 4 stars the structure is 3 stars.
I respect the avant garde thing of splitting up the book.
However, content wise: the book has two pieces memory and present.
In comparison with present day Ginnie, being a reporter and his son.
this all works really well, except that the form messes up the present day content that has an obvious order.
The memories are great mixed up, however the present memories need to be structured.
My solution make a book that is in order and memories that are then inserted into the book.


first impression: this in an interesting structure devised to express the time of mourning a friend, a woman, a past, and in its deliberate renditions of vignettes of memories, in its conversational narration, certainly captures evocative recall- but, unfortunately, this is a work that leads me to think more than leads me to feel...on reflection: to think is not a bad thing, in fact, i like to think.
is this proof that we can never create truly abstract or conceptual literature because there is only the medium of words so the writing is always already the concept...?i think: do i have a naive or instrumental idea of fiction- in my case, perhaps unfortunately, only prose- believing that before anything else it should be a pleasure and not a chore to read?
This is experimental fiction from the 1960s, and it's the most unusual book I've ever read.
It comes in 27 separate sections, unbound, in a box, like boxed sets of greeting cards sometimes do.
The first and last sections are labelled so you know where to start and finish, but in between, you read the sections in random order.It's not just cleverness for the sake of it.
It's a representation of a man's mind when he is distracted from his work by grief.
It's not difficult to read, it's like eavesdropping on a conversation.
I think it's brilliant, but it's also an adventure to read it.
An absolutely astonishing book. The structure - a book in a box with a clearly marked "first" and "last section," with the remaining 25 sections unbound, to be read in any order - gives me a lot of inspiration for my own work. But what is more meaningful is how dead-on the "random" structure of the book is to our own organization of thoughts and ideas and events: we have our clear starts and finishes, yet in between our minds go in every direction, never in a straight, chronological, linear order. Highly recommended.
No doubt one of the best novels I've ever read. It's beautiful, I highly recommend. The nature of its construction: pamphlets that the reader is encouraged to rearrange in any order: mirror memories and how they trigger and form in the mind. This novel made me cry - something which fiction ever rarely does to me. But then again, this can hardly be considered "fiction"...
His friend died of cancer at just 29 and the book is a series of chopped up recollections of the triangular friendship together with the man’s wife, the narrator’s own love life, the disease and the nature of writing itself.As he makes his meandering progress to the football stadium, via café, butchers and pub, he recalls time spent with his friends in various towns.
It was fortunate that the penultimate section I read happened to be him in the press box of the ground.
People aren't supposed to write reviews of B.
The next one I write is going to be coherent.
S. Johnson's journalist hero has become unstuck in time.
He ends one randomly-chosen chapter (rcc) picking through the debris of a recently-concluded soccer match he has covered for a newspaper, and starts the next rcc arriving in town in the same morning, anticipating the same match.
Johnson's hero is spastic in time.
In spite of his rcc-generated temporal problems and a melancholy disposition, the hero manages to cover the soccer match as intended and file his story.
Samuel Beckett meets Ron Manager.Isn't it, wasn't it... marvellous.
It captures the work assignment of Johnson, sent to a north England city to cover a soccer match, only to belatedly (and not convincingly) realize as he arrives in the train station that this is the city where his friend Tony lived and died a tragic victim of cancer as a young man just embarking on both his academic life and his life as a family man, married with young children.
The random way memory works and the tentative hold the mind has on what occurs to us, what moves us, what interrupts us, is the rationale for the free signatures.

However, when I started actually reading the book, I realised it was much more than a novelty item, and that the presentation did make sense, tying in with the ideas of memory and forgetting that are explored throughout.
Primarily, that’s what I enjoyed most about ‘The Unfortunates’ - it’s exploration of these themes and those of death and memorial.
I also really enjoyed the style of the prose - you can tell, I think, that Johnson was a poet - and the author’s candid treatment of his friends Death, which was brilliantly (and strangely) interwoven with his football journalism.Overall, then, the book exceeded my initial expectations on pretty much every level; its style, form, and especially its ideas, were all equally thought-provoking and I don’t doubt that I’ll revisit them in the future.
I loved the idea, and I really loved the reading.Both the words, and all the shuffling within and between each section.You know lots of people say 'show don't tell'?Well this book-in-a-box really does show the vagueness, cloudy, random, but-definitely-fitting-together nature of memory.
All that seductive random memory stuff all along the way.When the author was going to make such a definite statement.
I picked this up because I was curious about the format and surprised that I had never heard of it (nor had the few colleagues I surveyed; turns out it was not published in the U.S. until the 40th anniversary edition in 2009).
I found it a bit cumbersome on the material level and the novelty of the form did not necessarily accomplish anything that a stream-of-consciousness series of reflections might have done.
On the content level, it was an engaging take on memory, friendship, and illness.
If you are interested in the material form of the novel, or ways of representing memory, then I'd recommend.
An fabulous experiment that works --- though it won't be to everyone's taste.In the late 60s, Johnson, a sports reporter, went to Nottingham to report on a soccer match.
Tony's death, soccer, a meal at a restaurant, and the memory of a woman's betrayal --- all are woven together.
The book is written in 27 unbound chapters, and except for the first and last chapters, you can read them in any order you see fit.And really, order doesn't matter.It's a brilliant, self-absorbed experiment.
To be honest, the concept of the unfortunates was a lot better than the actual book.
Being 27 separate pamphlets meant to be read in a random order is one of the coolest book concepts that I've come across.
The story focuses around a man who's best friend is slowly dying of cancer.
He retells memories of his best friends death, but the tone throughout the book is a constant, somewhat boring drone.
To be honest, if the book wasn't in such a unique format, I wouldn't have read it.
Apart from the first and the last, the booklets can be read in any order. A set of memories of a friend brought on by a trip too a midland town. Think it must be Nottingham, castle on a sandstone cliff with caves where people lived into the 1800's. A town with an industry based on lace, and Newstead abbey nearby.
unlike any other book!so of course on encountering a copy in the charity shop i volunteer in i snapped it up, even it was several pound more expensive than what i'd usually pay for something there.
this copy is missing the raised felt sticker on the back of the box with which my dad covered the price on my uncle's copy, my family do that when they buy each other books.i was pleased to find, practically immediately, it loves up to its own promise.
no) an issue, not in themselves of course but in how johnson does them.
but one also cannot help but think what this book would be like were it not so wrapped up in johnson himself.more books in boxes please!
The result is an astounding work and a dizzying feat of imagination that plays with the anarchic nature of time to recreate the disorder of the human mind.Falling between experimental novel, biography and stream of consciousness, these fragmented chapters reveal the joy and solace that can be found just wandering around a vaguely familiar city, but primarily they tell the tale of a professional, but affectionate friendship between Johnson’s reporter and his friend and mentor, Tony, who recently passed away.As he meanders along the edge lands and anonymous public spaces of this city, forlorn, yet invigorated by the cavalcade of memories he’s experiencing, the novel delights in tiny pockets of lyricism and remembrance.
I was bought this book by a thoughtful English Dept colleague when I was off ill recently.
The formal inventiveness was right up my street and I bought two friends (also English teachers) copies so we could all read it and compare notes.
Something which would give us different perspectives depending on what order we read the book in, some bias one way or another, similar maybe to Ali Smith’s How to be Both.
One minute the narrator is writing a post match report, the next, he’s heading to the game.
I am all for the concept of a book in a box made up of 27 unbound sections that—other than the first and last sections—are meant to be read in random order.
While the randomization of the sections corresponds to the nature of memory, this idea could have been captured in your standard bound book.
It's not a big deal, as the plot of the narrator walking around the city before the match is secondary, but it doesn't serve or benefit the purpose of randomization.
(Though, considering the narrator's restraint, that could be intentional.) The experiment should serve the story.
The concept of the 27 sections read in a randomly order works, but isn't flawless.
Two sections are labelled "first" and "last", but there are several in between that definitely have order in them too.
Easily 1/3 of the text can be cut to make it more fluent, but yes, it wouldn't be the same book anymore.But I like the idea how we are shown random anecdotes about Tony and how he was while still alive.
It's like listening to Johnson verbally telling about his friend while sitting next to him.
As it is, it had a little to say, but ultimately, BSJ has simply taken a linear story and cut it into pieces.
This works well and interestingly when he is reminiscing and the framing narrative moments don't have a clear place in the story line, but it is nothing but jarring when you read one chapter where is it at the big game, and the next when he clearly states he is on the way to it.
Ultimately, I think a little bit more work from the author could have made this book a genius example of subverting the literary standards.
I was worried that this experimental book would be no more than a gimmick, or that I would be annoyed by the stance of a mid-century white male.
Happy to be wrong on both counts.
Johnson set out to capture the nature of how we remember things in a disordered manner, and the structure of the book suits this goal well (the book comes in a box which contains a First and Last section, with 27 short unbound sections you can read in any random order).
I enjoyed the writing style and the philosophical asides, and I also enjoyed speculating how the book would have felt if I had read the unbound sections in a different order.
