https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1890069.A_Treatise_on_Cosmic_Fire
This book deserves five stars because it is a tome of immeasurable value to human understanding.
Most of its ideas are so abstract and complex that I can only read a few paragraphs at a time before I fall asleep..as though my mind is rationing the amount of knowledge I take from it.
Even then I have to annotate the text and draw diagrams to deepen my understanding.
I have read the same passage over and over, put it aside, and returned to it later to find it makes more sense.
Thus it contains knowledge that goes on working in your subconscious mind.
Excellent Book. I have been studying this for the last 40 odd years - I am still finding more meaning in it every day. I am actually writing a book that unlocks some of the secrets in here as well as the Secret Doctrine. Hoping to have it released in the next 12-24 months.
However over time , as I entered my late teens and early 20's I began to take My studies more serious , as I pondered , contemplated , and engaged in the ''art'' of meditation ,and a group meditation known as ''Transmission meditation''.This was a new kind of meditation which was given to Benjamin Creme' by His Teacher ,- who is a Master of Wisdom of a highly developed constitution .''A Treatise on Cosmic Fire'' was a major undertaking as a project, and after a while I went to a great bookstore and purchased about 6 or 7 books by;- Alice .A .
For me to explain what I think about this book most likely would not accurately appraise a book as worthy as this may be. Although this book may be complicated to read, if you take the time to meditate and break down the things she talks about in this book... much illumination may come about.... much illumination may come about.I only gave it 4 stars because of the difficulty of this book to understand for most.
A group of us studied this book for three years, completing the work in 2013. It's been a part of my studies for many years, but this was the first time any of us had studied and discussed it page by page. Well worth the effort!
Very difficult book but a cornerstone of the Theosophical/Esoteric paradigm. I dip in and out rather than attempt a read through (same with the Secret Doctrine). Highly recommended as an outreach of the Spiritual Hierarchy.
reading this now and I can see this is a lifetime study. I'm a student of the teaching of B.O.T.A and Alice Bailey books fit like a piece to a puzzle within the picture life is forming through experience. truth is always equal on all sides.
Another Alice Bailey book that is a transcription of "the tibetan." This one is an esoterica on the use of energy by the adept. Again, I don't know if I subscribe to it, but I learned a lot from reading it.
Ho iniziato a leggerlo nel 2012. Sono arrivata a pagina 400. Lo trovo molto difficile da capire. Sto leggendo altri libri nella speranza di formarmi Delle basi che mi facilitino la comprensione.
So many keen expressions, words, understandings. Like a technology of the cosmos. Written through A.A. Bailey by The Tibetan. Like a feast of eastern beliefs expressing unity of all religious belief.
