https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/181116.Monday_Mourning
I have read all of Kathy Reichs’s offerings since her first book, Deja Dead was published in 1997.
I have to ask myself why.I don’t particularly like Temperance Brennan, Kathy Reichs’ forensic heroine.
Everyone with an acronym, and believe me, Reichs can come up with plenty, believes that the remains are historical.
If you like this, you’ll love her novels.
However, if like me, you’ve been hooked by another writer in this genre called Karin Slaughter, you’ll realize how much Reichs misses as an author.
I don’t care enough for Tempe.
And I don’t like Reichs’s writing style.
While the technical details get a bit much from time to time, Tempe eventually uses carbon dating techniques to determine the likely ages of the bones and to start developing realistic leads re the identities of the victims, seemingly all teenaged young women.
The intriguing plot concludes with some first class detecting and a little bit of an implausible fire rescue scene with of course Tempe at the heart of the heroics.We've read this entire set and like the fresh territory it generally covers.
Nevertheless, we found "Mourning" to be a superb addition to the set to date, featuring Tempe's detective work at her best, with a tremendously clever and satisfying conclusion.
كان من المفترض أن يكون يوم اثتين عادي جدا لكنه يتحولَ جذرياً، عندما تستدعى الدكتورة تمبرنس إلى قبو مطعم بيتزا حيث تكتشف عظام ثلاث سيدات في ذلك القبو ..تكون لدى د.
خاصة وأنه وُجد في القبو أدلة تؤيد وجهة نظره ..ولأنَ تمبرنس لا تستسلم كما نعرفها .تخضع العظام لفحص الكربون 14 ..وتتوالي الحقائق بعدها ..صادم ومريع ما ستكتشفه تمب من خلال هذه التحقيقات ..
لهما نفس الفكرة والكاتب ولكن ما يجمع بينهما غير ذلك هو العظام ود.تمبرنس برينان فقط .أحب كلاً منهما وعلى حدة ..
The only think I didn't like was that Ryan didn't really believe or know about this certain surprise until like maybe a week or two before he told Brennan?!?!
Yeah, that kind of pissed me off because he was sort of making her think that he was unfaithful - if ya get my drift.Other than that, I loved the murder mystery.
Listening to these books just makes me want to dive back into re-watching season one of this show.
I don't know where Ryan is half the time but he needs to babysit her so she doesn't get hurt or something.
Perhaps one of the very few mystery series that I don't necessarily read in chronological order.The seventh installment takes place in Montreal, Quebec in early December as Temperance Brennan works alongside detectives Claudel and Charbonneau to solve a mystery as to why the basement of a pizza parlour has skeletal remains.There's plenty of the usual angst in Tempe 's personal life too, but the mystery is always the primary goal.
I've stated before that I prefer the books to the show and I absolutely love when the storyline is in Montreal.
Tempe has just suffered her seventh traumatic brain injury to date and i know the story will devolve into the usual formulaic ending so I don't really have to keep reading from here (do I?)I am surprised she is not a shambling, drooling amnesiac, she's been hit in the head so much. As always, I found the first 85% or so of this novel to be pretty interesting but I am getting annoyed at the tediously repetitious denouement. Can't Ms. Reichs come up with some other way to draw her novels to a close?
What these girls have fallen into isn't terribly surprising, nor is there really an opportunity to develop mystery, because it becomes pretty clear who the killer is as soon as the limited necessary information is introduced.That's the real problem with this volume.
It takes up 300 pages because Reichs denies Brennan reasonably determinable information or reasonable conclusions based upon already presented evidence solely to keep the book from ending too soon.
Instead we get delayed by the stop-start relationship of Ryan, the addition of a friend in distress, and just "things take time" None of it is particuarly entertaining and I thought we had overcome the hitches with Ryan in the previous volume.
I always enjoy the Temperance Brennan novels, but I tend to favor the ones set outside of Canada.
I loved the mystery and the back and forth during the investigation between Tempe and Claudel.
Kathy Reichs has a way of "dumbing down" the science so readers can firmly grasp the concepts presented and that was highly effective in this novel.
The only thing I didn't enjoy was Tempe's reactions to her issues with Ryan.
A killer Temperance Brennan novel as long as you just ignore the romance.
Well, the science was good. As usual it was thoroughly researched and I learned something new, about Carbon dating. But, I can't help feeling the storyline just gets formulaic. Got news about boyfriend seeing other woman, instead of asking she just keep quiet. Then towards the end, of course she had to go to the house without telling anyone. I mean, come on, this works on book 1 or 2 but by book 7 you think she'd know better than plunge headfirst into potentially dangerous sitch don't you? Oh well. I probably keep reading the series anyhoo.
تحقيقات بلوسيه لا باس بها السرد جميل بها حشو كثير النهايه غير متوقعه
I just find the main character very annoying.
She gives the man she so-called loves the run around, she won't talk to him, she won't tell him what she's thinking, leaving him utterly confused.
Just talk to the man!
She works out who the victim is, that is her job.
THEN she takes over the policeman's job and tries to figure out who did the murder.
This Tempe really annoys me because she is always talking about how sexy she is, everyone falls in love with her, she talks about her wonderful wardrobe and sexy clothes...do I care?

الكتاب يشبه فيلم أجنبي مليئ بالإثارة والتشويق والغموض. الكتاب يتطرق لموضوعات الجريمة، الرومانسية، العلوم الحديثة. كل هذا في سياق درامي ممتع وجذاب. ولذلك تجد أن من الصعب التوقف عند نقطة معينة دون الرغبة في معرفة ما سيحدث تالياً. الكتاب ممتع.
لم تروق لي!ربما اقرأها مرة أخرى وأعيد تقييمها
Temperance Brennan yet again is trying to solve a murder, and this time her relationship status with Andrew Ryan is on ice.A group of women is found dead in a Montreal pizza parlor, and Tempe is forced to try to find the killer.
This novel will definitely fuel anyone's love of Kathy Reichs!I found this book to be very addicting, and more exciting than many of the previous books.
The relationship between Andrew Ryan and Temperance Brennan is also explored to an extent.
It is addicting, and a step up from the previous Kathy Reichs book!Five out of five stars!

Actual rating: 4 starsWhen I started this book, I wasn't expecting much anyway; just the usual forensic/anthropology stuff. Till the mid of the book I was hung up on 3.5 stars. But the moment the climax set in, it shot upto 4 stars because the climax was least expected.Monday Morning is a very good page turner and one thing I love about this book is the narration and research.The narration is plain,simple (better than most thrillers) and the research is amazing.If you are looking for some forensic-based thrillers this is one of the books to read.
Reichs continues to improve. There are still some repetitive themes that I could do without; but for the most part, I can look past those to the plot, which has been developed much better than in previous books. The story had me intrigued from the beginning, and I think I liked this ending better than any of the other books. Overall, a good crime/mystery and a good read.
I had a slow start with this one, but like usual as soon as I got into it I couldn't put it down!
I struggle a little with the forensic terminology in these books but the story is I always good and I like the characters.
This was an interesting mystery and that took a bit to discover who was the real killer quite interesting and amazing based in Canada which I always like to read.
I have been following this series of books for many years now and have always enjoyed every reading experience.
Recently I have revisited them again as my daughter wanted me to buddy read them with her after discovering the television series and then seeing the books in our bookshelves.
I am glad I read the books before seeing some of the television show because otherwise I may not have liked them quite so much.
They're not predictable, because I don't usually guess the murderer/solution, but the story always progresses in the same way.The premise and mystery gets 4 stars.
But I could do without the manufactured relationship drama, and (view spoiler)[in every book, at about 80-85% of the way through, Tempe makes a bad decision and get hit over the head, captured, beat up and is in grave danger.
EVERY BOOK (hide spoiler)].
So 2 stars for those parts of the book.
My accent is appalling, and even I know she's messing up here.
Tempy was pissed at Ryan for like 75% of the book and they could've cleared up this issue had they talked to each other for like 10 mins.
The case was interesting, but my brain didn't always feel like listening so I had a hard time following in the beginning.
Plus, a lot of it was Tempy doing something and trying to contact her partners cause no one would answer their stupid phones.
Also, she had a friend visit who like up and disappeared for half the book, it was weird.
Kathy Reich fait partie de ceux qui maîtrisent admirablement l'écriture. Avec une histoire réelle, l'auteure a su imaginer un tout autre scénario, largement plus intéressant que la réalité. Son expertise et son indéniable connaissance de l'anthropologie judiciaire et du corps policier enrichissent de manière considérable la lecture. Ce que je trouve le plus intéressant, c'est de pouvoir lire tout en apprenant (parfois sans totalement comprendre les termes abscons, mais quand même). Ainsi, je me suis amusée à suivre son personnage dans ses péripéties, parfois même en perdant la notion du temps!
3 1/2 stars. An intriguing story of three sets of bones of young women found in the basement of what is a pizza-by-the-slice place. No one knows who they are or how long they have been there. Tempe is determined to find out how they died and who they are. Will she find the answers to her questions before the killer or killers find her?
I enjoyed this, saw most of the twists coming but that's probably because I've read so many similar books in the genre, it was still a very well written story and I look forward to reading the rest of the series.
الرواية مثيرة ومشوقة ، السرد رائع ، والحبكة متقنة ، والنهاية الغير متوقعة،الترجمة كذلك لابأس بها ، استمتعت بقرائتها ..تعرفت على معلومات جديدة في الطب الشرعي ( تقنية الكربون 14 ) / متلازمة ستوكهولم...الكاتبة لها سلسلة من الروايات مع بطلتها برينان ، أقتبس مسلسل بونز( عظام) من هذه الروايات.
Ditto the personal plots, where I alternately wanted to encourage Anne to dump Brennan as a friend forever, tell her to just confront Ryan on their relationship drama llama and shake my head that oh look, someone broke into her home AGAIN.I also am starting to find it hard to believe that a colleague at a major forensics facility would need his hand held during an explanation of carbon dating.
UGH.2) It really took over halfway through the book and a serial killer case to trigger the notion that just because someone went missing at one age/size, means that they must have died the same way?
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
