https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13519.The_Journey_to_the_East
Die Morgenlandfahrt = The Journey to the East, Hermann Hesse Journey to the East is a short novel by German author Hermann Hesse.
It was first published in German in 1932 as "Die Morgenlandfahrt".
در قالب رومانتیسم عرضه شده، بنیان اصلی این داستان بر کشف ظرایف روح انسان قرار دارد، ولی نمی‌توان آن را یک اثر فلسفی دانست.
It’s twofold: the telling of an untellable story, the making of an impossible journey.
Hesse had tried something like this before, with Steppenwolf, when he submitted to his publishers a collection of ultra-personal poems which he intended to accompany the novel, but these were deemed too indulgent, too angry, too obscure for a wider readership, and were held back to be published separately in a limited edition.
And the story is a dream-picture of sleep and awakening.Ugh. I’m aware that as a review this makes about as much sense as The Journey...
Like all of Hesse’s stories, it’s a story of self-discovery.
Like Steppenwolf (whose narrator, Harry Haller, is another H.H.), it’s also a fairly naked and often despairing self-portrait.
The narrator H.H joins a quasi-religious organisation called The League which has ancient roots and members from reality and fiction: Plato, Don Quixote, Mozart, Tristram Shandy, Baudelaire, Puss in Boots (I kid you not).
H.H is, for me, too one-dimensional and taken up with concepts, inner journeys and completely unrelated to other members of the human race.
However having had to read about Servant-Leadership management theories and having on a daily basis to manage a team of people, it was interesting to look at the character of Leo and his changing (yet being the same) role.
And, for the most part, I think god is boring.
Unlike Siddhartha, a book which everybody loves because they think they will look dumb if they don't, Journey to the East is a book that doesn't claim to have all the answers.
It must be written again, right from the beginning…"The Journey to the East is eluded to many times within John Zelazny's first novel, The Sorrows of Young Mike.
In Zelazny's work, the main character is also often searching for the unknowable while on a trip that will eventually lead him to the Orient.

We moved towards the East, but we also travelled into the Middle ages and the Golden Age; we roamed through Italy or Switzerland, but at times we also spent the night in the tenth century and dwelt with the patriarchs or the fairies.Um, okay, H.H. If you say so.H.H. also tells us that members of this League included real people (Plato, Mozart, Paul Klee) and fictional ones (Don Quixote, Tristram Shandy, characters from Hesse’s books).
Κάθε φορά που διαβάζω Hesse, διαπιστώνω πόσο μεγάλος συγγραφέας είναι.
برای من کتابِ فوقالعادهای بود. با اینکه در ابتدا روایت داستانیِ قویای هم نداشت، و روایتهای پراکندهای از خاطرات سفری به سوی صبح بود، اما از نیمههای کتاب که با حقایق روبرو میشد و از گمگشتگی خودش آگاه، با دل آدم حرف میزد. برای کسی که راه سلوک را رفته باشد یا بخواهد برود، کلمات آشناست. راهروان، پیشروان، خطاها، حسرتها...بخش آخر (خواب جزیره) هم با اینکه تمثیلی بود اشکهایم را جاری کرد. آنجا که شاهبانو به ه. میگفت «من روح درماندهٔ تو را خوب میشناسم. در راه زندگی بر فراز سرت بودهام...»و آنجا که میپرسید «
برای من کتابِ فوق‌العاده‌ای بود.
با این‌که در ابتدا روایت داستانیِ قوی‌ای هم نداشت، و روایت‌های پراکنده‌ای از خاطرات سفری به سوی صبح بود، اما از نیمه‌های کتاب که با حقایق روبرو می‌شد و از گم‌گشتگی خودش آگاه، با دل آدم حرف می‌زد.
برای کسی که راه سلوک را رفته باشد یا بخواهد برود، کلمات آشناست.
آن‌جا که شاهبانو به ه‍.
در راه زندگی بر فراز سرت بوده‌ام...»و آن‌جا که می‌پرسید «بگو، آیا شیرین‌کام‌تر از دیگران نبودی؟» «ولی آیا نیکبختی‌ات را قدر شناختی؟»پ.ن: ترجمهٔ سروش حبیبی بسیار زیبا بود.پ.ن.۲: کتاب در چاپ‌های بعدی با نام سلوک به سوی صبح منتشر شده.
اون قد نثرش فاخر بود که آدمو دنبال خودش می کشوند و البته حواسشو از داستان پرت میکرد. داستان سهل و راحتی نیس؛ خصوصاً که گریزها و تلمیح ها و اشارات زیادی داره که آدمو گیج می کنه. ولی رو هم رفته حال و هواش خوبه.
Once again, my brain keeps telling me that Hesse must be writing satire, since there is nothing that separates this vision of enlightenment from mental disorder.The secret organization itself is the most interesting part of the narrative.
This odd vision of a world- and time-spanning sect of spiritual sorcerers was the most enjoyable and promising aspect of the book, so it was disappointing to me that it served only as a backdrop for a fairly bland story.The narrative is also full of allusions to various historical and literary figures, events, mythologies, and philosophies, but I didn't feel that Hesse did enough to connect them together into something meaningful.
کتاب خوبی بود.اما از آن دست کتابهایی بود که باید ۱٠٠% حواس خواننده جمع میبود.
Such a strange journey, such an elusive destination.
It seems that life is much more magical and mystical in youth, and while I am still very young myself, I find that any excitement towards spirituality I once had, has been slowly replaced over the years with a jaded cynicism.
But often I have strange epiphanies that paint truth as paradoxical.
In these moments I think that not much can ever be truthfully revealed about the mysteries in life, although many people claim to have answers for these mysteries.
And maybe the most frightening thing I think of in these moments, is that we might be grasping eternally at straws.
The Hermann Hesse novels that I have read thus far examined his philosophical, eastern inspired train of thought that took place upon his ability to seek enlightenment like that chronicled in Demian.
Demian remains my absolute favorite, but Journey to the East presented a great, cool breath of fresh air as well when it came to developing a greater understanding of one's quest for what they want in life and the group of people with similar interests or motives they are willing to come together with in order to follow that pursuit in what is often recognized as religion.
Nevertheless, the writing style and descriptions are excellent.The catalyst to me in the book appears to be Leo, the servant to the group and yet “Leo knew all kinds of things; that he perhaps knew more than us, who were ostensibly his masters.”The group then falls into disarray when, upon arrival at the Morbio Inferiore Gorge on the Italian border, Leo disappears.Time relentlessly passes and H.H. decides that he must write about his own particular journey but he’s finding it more and more difficult to remember events.
A disconcerting book because we lose all the landmarks of time and space. But this book also made me think of Kafka and his novel The Castle. The members of the order evoked for me the inhabitants of the village and HH in K.
Ezoterizmle ilgili olmama, ezoterik örgütler hakkında da biraz bilgi sahibi olmama rağmen, bu kitapta HH şunu anlatmaya çalışmış, bunu ortaya koymak istemiş, diyemiyorum maalesef... Kolay okunabilmesine, içinde çok sayıda damardan fikir cümleleri barındırmasına karşın, söylemek istediklerini doğru anlayabilmek, anlandığı zannedilse bile, içselleştirmek oldukça zor... İsteyen kaşıkla, isteyen kepçeyle, alabilen de kazanla alsın nafakasını, diye düşünmüş olmalı...
I came away with one and by sharing it I will end my review.Hesse must have been haunted with a question: What is the meaning of life?
In Knulp Hesse merely said that one must find meaning of one's life before it ended and that would be the salvation.
Genesis 1: 27 reads thus: "And God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them."Man is called to live up to that calling.
For everyone is an image of God. This easy calling may be hindered by our own image (ego).
الرواية كانت صعبة الى حد ما...مافهمته ان هذه الرواية تسرد قصة نمو النفس ومرورها بمراحل الحياة المختلفة.
Warning: Inconclusive ending.Several main points:+ Despair is the constant state of humanity.+ The servant is master.+ Traveling to far-off places and reaching a 'destination' doesn't change your life or bring meaning, unless you are also willing to change how you perceive the world.+ The true journey takes place inside your head.* * *+ "What person really knows another or even himself?
Although the most difficult to comprehend of Hesse's novels, The Journey to the East was, upon readi
Kitapla ilgili felsefi birçok yorum yapılabilir zira buna fazlasıyla elverişli bir kitap olmuş. İnsan psikolojisi, yabancılaşma hissi, hata, inkar, kabullenme...Hepsi çıkıyor bu yolculukta okurun karşısına ve okur okuduklarını kendince anlamlandırmaya çalışırken...Öyle bir "son" geliyor ki işte o anda, ne kadar usta bir yazarı okuduğunuzu anlıyorsunuz. Metin içindekilerle yapılan ilişkilendirme sonda muhteşem, her kitabın sonu benzer şekilde keyif vermemiştir bana. Açıkçası tüylerimin ürpermesine engel olamadım o sonu okurken. "İyiki okudum." dediklerimden.
همه ی آن چیز هایی که من تا کنون نیکو و دل انگیز می پنداشتم و در راه آن ها فداکاری می کرده امچیزی جز هوس های خود پسندانه ام نبوده است....

And they propel us towards a self-exploring journey.But, reading Hesse is different.
For me, he brings in the difference between intellectualism and sainthood.My first book of Hesse happens to be "Siddharth" which according to me a must read for all and sundry.
Towards the end when the self-deprecating HH, finds the truth, he is more than just amazed....This book shouldn't be taken as an introduction to Hesse ( though the small size might be tempting to take the risk).
به هرحال هرچه که بود خواننده نکته ای قابل تامل را در این از دست دادن و یافتن نمی یابد و این باعث ناامیدی من از خواندن این کتاب بود.چند جمله ای از کتاب را که دوست داشتم:"کلمات معنای نهان را تباه می کنند و همه چیز را اندکی دیگرگونه و نادرست و سبک مایه باز می نمایند""شاید شدیدترین شوق انسان بعد از شوق به شناختن و چشیدن, میلش به فراموش کردن شناخته ها باشد""دور نیست که آن گروه از روان پزشکان و روان شناسان که همه ی کارهای انسانها را از خودپسندی ناشی می دانند حق داشته باشند.

"he who travels far will often see things Far removed from what he believed was Truth. When he talks about it in the fields at home, He is often accused of lying, For obdurate people will not believe  What they do not see and distinctly feel.Inexperience, I believe,Will give little credence to my song."
Surpreendente, o que depois já ter lido vários livros dele é ainda mais surpreendente.
And as they transverse through time and space encountering Don Quixote and Noah’s Ark, members of the League such as Mozart and Hugo Wolf, Paul Klee (and fictional characters from some of Hesses other novels) establish the parameters which one gains happiness by establishing faith in each other.On the superficial level, a choirmaster named HH has been ostracized from the League for imposing his loss of faith on a servant whose sole raison d’etre was this fellowship and their planned trip to the east.
A few years later (for indeed, the complete works of Hesse travel with me no matter where I go) I admitted I finally understood the plot but ‘could it really be that thin?’ Still loved the language.
این مقدمه یا ترجمه اش - یا هردو - چنان گنگ است که جز بر سردرگمی نمی افزاید.
این دو نکته شاید تنها نکاتی بود که در این مقدمه ی نسبتا طولانی به دستم آمد و باقی جز خشم از ابهام حاصلی نداشت.اما خود اثر در مقام ترجمه چنگی به دل نمی زد، بد نبود اما نقاط ابهام زیادی داشت.
اما این هم سخنی کافی بود که رضایت خود را از این اثر بی پرده اظهار کنم.
از آن آثار که نقل قول کردن از آن را دوست خواهم داشت و صد البته گاهی شاید نه به اصل منظور نویسنده.
