https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11093329-the-house-of-silk
Regardless, I loved this novel and became completely wrapped up in it!Just as in the originals, The House of Silk is written from the perspective of Holmes’s associate and companion, Dr. Watson.
That was the difference between us." – WatsonIn this book, we are taken on a ride into the dark side of London as Holmes and Watson investigate a case that began with a gang of ruthless thieves in Boston that somehow made its way across the Atlantic and straight to the doorsteps of 221B Baker Street.
A brilliant 4.5 stars- Horowitz has (somehow) breathed new life into Sherlock Holmes! When reading this I could imagine that Conan Doyle would be proud of Horowitz’s attempt at Holmes. He has delivered it in such a way that it could easily fit into the Sherlock Holmes story arc and be read with as much joy as the original novels. Indeed, this is as every bit as good as the classic Sherlock Holmes novels that I’ve already read. This really is fan fiction at its finest. Sherlock Holmes is such a
A brilliant 4.5 stars- Horowitz has (somehow) breathed new life into Sherlock Holmes!
He has delivered it in such a way that it could easily fit into the Sherlock Holmes story arc and be read with as much joy as the original novels.
Indeed, this is as every bit as good as the classic Sherlock Holmes novels that I’ve already read.
Anthony Horowitz, like Holmes, is also a perceptive man because he has re-created the legendary consulting-detective with as much skill and finesse as Sir Arthur Conan Doyle did himself.
If we were aware of his mind then there really would be no reason to read a Sherlock Holmes novel whatsoever.
On seeing the pastiches of Sherlock Holmes there's always one question that comes to my mind: Could this new author be at par with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle (let alone surpass him)?
This book, I accept, does not come at par with the original for die hard fans of Sherlock Holmes.
And to be honest, I liked the story that Horowitz has woven.
And actually, the author really did succeed in executing a Sherlock Holmes novel.
And on a different note- this novel has all the elements which fans of Sherlock Holmes would like to see.
As a reader, this makes me very happy – time is far more elastic than we might think, and this novel is a great example of that.In the Prologue, Dr. Watson is in hospital and writing “therapeutically” of one of the last great mystery adventures that he and Sherlock Holmes experienced.
I loved it, and if you are fond of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s famous characters, Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson, and/or if you already love Anthony Horowitz’s writing, or feel like you might want to explore what he has to offer as a writer, I highly recommend that you find this novel and read it.
My mind remembers these things, the cover art, the heft and sense of the page, how some fall open and give them selves up to you while others can be heavy, cumbersome, high maintenance reads.
I remember the print or type face, whatever the right term is, my mind is able to recreate these images and sensations as I recall a particular experience or revisit a favoured passage, reminisce over long, lost lyrics, selected poems.
Take this example; it actually feels like silk when I pick it up, no shit, real silk and the cover art.....
Well!I have never read an actual Arthur Conan Doyle story so I cannot speak to the authenticity of this recreation of Sherlock Holmes.
Having loved your Alex Rider novels because of their brilliant plotting I now see that you are capable of turning your hand to constructing an incredible Sherlock Holmes novel.
And I am pleased to say that the plot did not disappoint in the slightest.The book begins with a prologue informing the viewer that since Sherlock Holmes is dead Watson can safely put his pen to paper and reveal a very strange set of adventures.
Anyway this had fast paced plotting that was brilliant and surprising and cannot be put into words.Conclusion?This was a Sherlock Holmes feast for the fans.
I suspect it has something to do with the fact that he’s very good – a professional writer since the age of 20, an OBE honoree, creator and writer of one of my favorite TV series ever (Foyle’s War), and the one commissioned by the Ian Fleming estate to write the next Bond novel.As far as I’m concerned, Horowitz did a creditable job capturing the voice and feel of the original.
We made this our audio book of choice for a long road trip home.
The rare times he tried his American woman voice didn’t convince us, but everything else was top-notch.
Anthony Horowitz shows himself here as a man of many talents. He very skilfully adopts the style and purpose of the original Sherlock Holmes series and produces a book which Arthur Conan Doyle would not have been ashamed of.The story is told from the point of view of Dr. Watson and his character rings true throughout the book. Other familiar characters are also portrayed as we have come to expect - Sherlock himself, Mycroft, Lestrade and even Moriarty who has a small part.It was all very enjoyable and I look forward to more!
He successfully appropriated Agatha Christie's voice in that instance -which lead me to believe he would be able to assume the voice of Arthur Conan Doyle in this, the first book that the author's estate approved to be written in over a century, featuring Doyle's infamous detective.I've only read a few of the original Sherlock Holmes mysteries, so I am by no means an expert on Doyle's style or the intricacies of his plotting and characterization.
Horowitz writes a dazzling plot, and throws in all kinds of goodies.
The combination of Horowitz' writing and Jacobi's delivery was magic!
He is a what one could term a professional author, able to turn his hand to most forms of writing.He does Sir Arthur Conan Doyle proud.
Here Sherlock is and remains the central character and he is very much how I imagine him to be when reading the originals.
Often Sherlock is turned into some form of dark disturbed character but here Horrowitz I think has remained true to the original vision.Overall I cannot recommend this too much.
It is by far and away the best non Sir A Conan Doyle Sherlock Holmes book written that I have read and I sincerely hope he writes more.
As the book opens, Holmes is dead and Watson is an elderly man who's decided to write up one of his friend's old investigations - a case so hush-hush that it can't be released for 100 years.
A lad called Ross is left to watch the hotel while Holmes is fetched.
When the detective arrives - with Watson and Carstairs - they find O'Donaghue murdered in his hotel room.
The latter issue is so sensitive that Mycroft Holmes, who's 'in' with the most important British officials, warns his brother to back off the investigation - but Sherlock does no such thing.
I love this book Alhamdulillah.
I respect both authors: Horowitz and Conan Doyle.If you haven't read Sherlock Holmes books/ complete of Sherlock Holmes by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle then you should read Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes books first then when you have finished reading it then read this book.If anyone who is a huge fan of Sherlock Holmes then I would recommend you to read this book.
Trust me you will love this book.I would recommend anyone who really likes to read crime fiction to read The House of Silk too.My name is Sherlock Holmes and the address is 221B Baker Street.
While there were some clever twists along the way--Holmes' time in prison, for example--even in these examples it felt as if Horowitz was simply reacting to other plots rather than coming up with something new.
To be fair, referencing other plots is the novel's strength; the connections to Doyle's stories come fast and furious.
Rather than trying to surpass the cleverness of Doyle's plots, Horowitz plays up the emotional side of the case.
Without a truly clever payoff, the plot's sensationalism feels gratuitous, and I left the novel wanting to reread the originals.
That is not what 'egregious' means. Or 'ribaldry'. Or 'infer'. The artist is not spelled Pissaro, and opium was legal in 1890 so smuggling it would have been uniquely pointless. The sexual mores are ahistorical, which is a major problem if the whole plot hinges on 'we must kill everyone to keep our secret'.I don't usually nitpick edits but really, if you're going to presume to ventriloquise Holmes, there's no space for sloppy English and failed fact checking. And no excuse for the old 'criminal gang refers to itself with easily guessable reference to its public ID' at all.
I admit that I am not a huge fan of the Sherlock Holmes books, and I was hoping for something more like "Magpie Murders" but this was just straight forward Sherlock Holmes. I liked some of the period detail but the story did seem to drag on. There was a lot of intricate plotting, so if you are a Holmes lover you'll probably enjoy this more than I did. I got a little bored.
About five years ago I read all of the Sherlock Holmes stories in one summer.
I listened to them on audio, performed by the marvelous Derek Jacobi.
This experience was so rewarding that it got me completely hooked on audiobooks.Last week I read Magpie Murders by Anthony Horowitz, and loved it so much I looked up his other novels.
I was thrilled to see he had written a new Sherlock Holmes mystery, and even better, that the audiobook was performed by Derek Jacobi.
Double win!I was impressed by how well Horowitz has recreated Holmes' world and Watson's narrative voice.
First off: Arthur Conan Doyle would never have written this novel.
Sherlock Holmes means different things to us now so an attempt to mimic his creator's style, which cannot be successful, arguably shouldn't be the most important part of the 'first' new official Holmes novel.Some things did matter, though.
Only an excellent essay by the author, explaining all the challenges he faced in writing 'The New Sherlock Holmes Novel'.
For one thing, he notes, Doyle did not really write about murder and rarely reflected on the historical and social conditions of Victorian London.
While we're on homoeroticism, I should point out one thing that struck me as authentic *and* appropriate for a neo-Victorian novel.
'Holmes had made it clear that the adventure of the man in the flat cap was over, the case solved and all that remained was for him to launch into one of those explanations that would leave me wondering how I could have been so obtuse as to have not seen it for myself from the start.
Horowitz deftly combines a perilous, and foreboding mystery shrouded in a spooky, historically accurate setting that made me feel completely immersed in the case and enveloped in the freezing cold and fog along side Holmes and Watson.
The introduction contains a nod to the Granda production that featured Brett.Is Horowitz as good as Doyle?
Horowitz takes Holmes and Watson places where Doyle couldn't because of the time period.
Horowitz is nice enough to let readers see other beloved characters from this series, and because this is Watson writing from his arm chair, we learn more about them.What I enjoyed most about this book was the fact that Horowitz kept the focus on Watson.
By keeping the focus on Watson, not only does the beloved doctor get fleshed out a bit more, but the book seems more authentic, far more than those stories where Holmes marries, and even far more than the enjoyable recent television and movie Holmes.
I was sure this Sherlock Holmes novel was going to be worthy when I read that the Arthur Conan Doyle Estate had authorized its publication.
My hat is off to Anthony Horowitz for channelling Sir Arthur Conan Doyle so perfectly.
The streets of Victorian London are full of poverty and children, and this tale takes on a Dickensian quality as we see the Baker Street irregulars figure into this story in a unique and clever way.
I wonder how it feels to be Horowitz, open your mind and your mouth, and have the voice of Doyle and Holmes come out.
Anthony Horowitz has written a new mystery story about Sherlock Holmes.
Now, a century later, we are reading about the disturbing events involving the House of Silk.Anthony Horowitz did a stellar job of replicating the style of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's writing.
Sherlock Holmes, with his incredible powers of deduction, and his trusty sidekick Watson start with a case involving the destruction of some famous paintings during a train robbery.
A dark mystery involving the House of Silk is also being investigated.
Kudos to Anthony Horowitz for an excellent Sherlock Holmes novel.
What ensues is a fantastic adventure full of wit, outrageous theories, an adequate quota of twists and a very well thought-out plot, which isn't as simple as it first seems.I was impressed by the way the story flows, almost effortlessly, from page to page as if this wasn't the first time Anthony Horowitz had written a Sherlock Holmes book.
There's no unnecessary back story or reminders as to who the characters are so it felt as if Horowitz picked up where Conan Doyle  left off.There is a second Sherlock Holmes book, Moriarty, which I will definitely read based on this brilliant outing.
As a reader who hasn't read all that much by way of Sherlock Holmes, I have to say this was a great way to be introduced to the character for the more novice readers out there.
What Sherlock didn't envision, was the case taking a turn for the worst; a turn which hits all too close to home with the ramifications being blood spilled and multiple murder.My rating; 4/5.
I'll try to avoid spoilers by only giving the bare outlines of the story and characters.Edmund Carstairs, a wealthy and refined art dealer, engages the services of Sherlock Holmes.
(hide spoiler)]The book is also an impassioned plea for the destitute, abused, overlooked children of London at that time.
By extension, it draws our attention to poor and abused children from any time and place.The only let down in the entire novel was a scene towards the end which seems to be the climax of the novel.
It is so real!I very much enjoyed the typically precise deductions and explanations of Holmes along the lines of telling people, including Watson, of recent events in their lives: where they had been and what they had been doing.
Horowitz captured these in exactly the same way as Sir Arthur had managed in the original stories.
In a way, I hope that this is a one off, but if Horowitz were to change his mind and write another Sherlock Holmes book, I would be first in line to order my copy.Highly recommended to all.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle wrote four novels and 56 short stories featuring Sherlock Holmes; while such an output might have been sufficient for a lesser light, fans of the Great Detective have been clamoring for more for more than a century now.
King seems able to do so), Horowitz nonetheless weaves a suspenseful tale of murder and intrigue that stretches into high reaches of the government, a pair of cases that will mesmerize readers, whether longtime Sherlock Holmes fans or newbies.
Readers need not be familiar with the Holmes canon to enjoy this fabulous novel, but Baker Street Irregulars will thoroughly savor yet another foray — and a most excellent one — with the Great Detective.
Watson was the only one who seemed a bit out of the character .I believe that, in this book, he represented the reader, but I always thought he’s Holmes’ peer , more than just a spectator of his partner’s abilities.
The book starts as a light read, a cozy mystery , that turns to be much more than that.
The main mystery itself turned out to be a difficult problem to speak or read about, but the subject matter was indeed treated with sensibility .
I believe that Holmes’ final act was exactly what the reader needed.
An excellent tale of Holmes and Watson, it kept me reading and fits very well among the series as written by Arthur Conan Doyle.
It was marketed as the first official allowed sequel makes you wonder what the status is of the other official sequel written by Caleb Carr "The Italian Secretary".
While Horowitz doesn't delve as deep in the Victorian world (as Carr was able to do) he does give the impression that he knows his stuff and nowhere does the novel stray of in unbelievable mistakes in time and place.
Conan-Doyle shows the brilliance of Holmes' mind in these stories, Horowitz did not show but just pronounced.
Normally my reaction is 'oh of course, that makes sense now though I would never have seen it myself had Holmes not shown his mind's progression.' In this story it was more often a case of ' Well I can't see how he would have worked that out just by that, that is just ridiculous'.
And that is not the reaction I want in a Holmes story.
There was excitement and suspense that can't be denied but all in all I was, as you might sense, a tad disappointed.
Horowitz has cleverly and successfully copied both the style, the "voice and eyes" of Dr. Watson.
The plot and the characters other than our famous duo- I would give it a 3.5 star but I must round it up for the London and countryside settings and the terrific window of "eyes" that was framed so distinctly with Dr. Watson's account being written in a backwards sense- many years later.
Dynamic too and fairly different in vulnerability than the usual Doyle.Easy read and very entertaining.
He sure can write in so many different genre, styles, even speeds but he always intrigues.
Horowitz equates to a good, lively read.
