https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65751.Emily_Boxed_3_Vols
Rakas, rakas kirja. Montgomery on kaikkien aikojen suosikkikirjailijoitani ja hänen Anna- ja Runotyttö-sarjoillaan on minulle valtava nostalginen merkitys. Tulen aina rakastamaan näitä koko sydämestäni. Runotytöistä suosikkini on toinen, Runotyttö maineen polulla, mutta kaikki ovat ihastuttavia yhtäkaikki. Annojen ja Runotyttöjen vertailussa en mene sanomaan toista paremmaksi, mutta Annat ovat minulle vielä näitäkin tärkeämpiä. On ollut ihanaa lukea rakkaita tyttökirjoja uudelleen ja tulen varmasti palaamaan niiden pariin vielä uudelleen!
(Luettu 3. kerran elokuussa 2016)Rakastuin Runotyttöön kun luin sen ensimmäisen kerran 9-vuotiaana. Nyt, 8 vuotta myöhemmin, rakastan sitä edelleen ja se on yksi kaikkien aikojen lempikirjojani. Voisin sanoa, että tämä on tärkein sarja minulle, enkä osaa edes ilmaista kuinka paljon Runotyttö-sarja minulle merkitsee. Edellisestä lukukerrasta oli kulunut useita vuosia, joten oli ihana palata tämän pariin. Olen myös aika varma, että Teddy oli ensimmäinen book crushini♥
"Emily's Quest" is the final book in the trilogy and is absolutely delightful. The depth of characterisation is very impressive as are the wonderful, atmospheric descriptive passages. Plotting is skilful and interest never flags. If you enjoy a crafted dose of sentiment this book is a winner.
Rakkain, rakkain Emilia!Niin raikasta, hurmaavaa, ihastuttavaa tyttöyttä ja runoutta. Ja vuodenaikoja, varsinkin keväitä, täydellisiä luontokuvauksia ja hetkiä. Leimahdus, moneen kertaan. Ja rakkautta! Niin dramaattista että hihityttää, niin pyhää että itkettää. Voi Emilia, ihana traaginen sankaritar, ihana pikkutyttö leikkituvassaan, ihana teini hekumoimassa paria sanaa hautausmaalla. Voih!
This review is actually for all three Emily books (Emily of New Moon, Emily Climbs, and Emily's Quest) because when I clicked on the book that matches my book, it only came up with with the boxed set and I haven't yet figured out how to make the right changes.
Anyway, on to my review...My mom brought me my old copies of the Emily series recently and I couldn't be happier.
Rereading the series was like meeting up with an old friend that you haven't seen in a good 15 to 20 years and nothing has changed.
For as much as I love the Anne of Green Gable novels, I think this may be the first time I’ve made it all the way through the Emily of New Moon books.
I know I attempted them around the same time I read the Anne books, but I don’t think I finished them.
Emily had a family, she needed to prove herself to them, and so getting married and settling down were never her goals.If I have one problem with the books it’s in the character of Dean Priest.
It took me a while to begin the third because I figured it'd be quite predictable and Emily would marry Teddy and live HEA.
If it wasn't for the rollercoaster of behaviors in the third book, I would give this five stars.
Then, Montgomery waited until the very last moment to break them up and even a little longer for Emily and Teddy to get together.
The third book was basically about her spirit breaking.
I would have been glad to have a predictable third book if that meant keeping Emily true to herself and not being jerked around by the author.
This was a reread for me, long overdue. I loved the first two books in the series--they're all about her dreams and aspirations and friendships and "scrapes" and interesting characters. The third book is mostly her sitting about pining over Teddy, so not nearly as good, but I love the first two enough to make up for it.
"The Flash" is real. I still can't decide who was a better friend to me: Anne or Emily. I recently re-read the entire Emily series. It was even better than I remembered as a girl.
Sweet and a tad frustratingI loved Emily the budding writer in these books. I didn't love that most of the love story was about miscommunication and no one trying clear that up. Overall, great. I saw glimpses of Anne with an e but it was really it's own story.
Ihana nuoren tytön kasvutarina, jonka ensimmäisen kerran olen lukenut 11-vuotiaana ja nyt uudelleen 21-vuotiaana. Tarina piti otteessaan loppuun asti yhtä lumoavana kuin lapsena. Ainoa ero tässä lukukerrassa oli Dean Priestin hahmon näkeminen omistavana, kyynisenä ja karmivana, eikä ollenkaan niin romanttisena kuin hän tuntui olevan 10 vuotta sitten.
I got this box set from my mom for my 11th Christmas present, and stayed up late many nights with a flashlight under the covers with tears on my cheeks reading Emily's adventures.
The first books one reads, loves, lives vicariously through the characters, shape our lives and personalities such that we cannot know where the character's childhood ends and our own begins.
I lived more fully in those literary worlds as a young teen than in my "real life", so they shaped my world-view and ideals of friendship and love forever.
I read all 3 of these books when I was 10 yrs old (or so).
I fell in love with them.
I read them and re-read them until I could almost recite them verbatim!You could have fooled me that this was not the true account of a little girl named Emily and her friend Teddy.
I wanted her to be a real woman.
such are the thoughts of a preteen.If you're looking for great books for a younger gal, I highly recommend them.
And if you haven't read them yourself -- you might be surprised how much you love them too.
I adore this series. It certainly rivals the Anne books. Emily is much different than Anne, and I think that's part of why this series works so well. From her beginnings in a house with her dying father, to living at New Moon with her Aunts, then on to college with another Aunt, then finally a woman trying to figure out how a childhood romance could move to an adult one. I loved reading about her journey and seeing how being honest about what you want in life can actually help get you what you want.
Just reread these on vacation too. Sappy and sentimental I know, but I like what I like. Also I've got to give the author kudos for great descriptions of beauty in nature. I always skipped these in the Anne books when I was a kid ("oh no she's talking about sunsets again"), but now I like them. In the Emily books they're more pronounced because Emily is supposed to be a writer and trying her hand at description.
The Emily series always appealed to me more than Anne. Anne is impossibly cheerful and resilient while Emily is complex, often tortured and goes through the valleys and peaks most young people do coming into their own.This series is darker than Anne and has some story lines that should be talked through with a younger reader.Tellingly, I still have the copy I received from my parents or grandparents around age 11 or 12.
Part of me likes these books even more than the Anne books. And I love the Anne books. But there's a darkness to the Emily stories that isn't in the Anne books, and that gives them an edge and dimension that Anne lacks.
I started this book over a year ago and out it down.
I loved Anne of Green Gables but that was 30 years ago.
So this year I decided to give the audio version a try.
Only the first book was available in audio, but boy, it was enough.
I liked the trilogy, but Emily was no Anne for me.
And most importantly, the characters of Marilla, Matthew we're sorely missed here.
And, unfortunately, I found the character of Dean Priest completely creepy.
Frankly I found him and his jealousies completely unlikeable.
I really wanted to like Emily. I loved Anne Shirley, but I found Emily annoying and worse than that all the secondary characters are annoying too. There is no bosom kindred friend. The guys interested in Emily are creepy and worse of all is the older cousin. The last book in the trilogy is the worse. I know I am not the intended audience for this book but at age 12 I would have rather spent my time reading about Anne Shirley or Francie Nolan or even Nancy Drew.
UghThis was so good - but I wish Maude hadn't left the climax up to the last moments. It was so hard to get through to the very end and when you didn't know how it was going to turn out. After reading this story I've decided I only like happy endings.
Very good three book seriesLike all three books. Love the first and the third one most. Really surprised by the ending of the third book. I always knew there was something wrong with Teddy Kent's mother.
Human natureA sweet coming of age story. How our lives tangle, block and twist, and we almost powerless to do anything but hang on. The story ended before I wanted.
EmilyA great choice for lovers of Ann. A little slow at times but with beautiful language and a very nice story.
Just re-read these books after a long time.
I adored them as a teenager -- loved them better than the Anne books.
(Emily is kind of a hipster Anne, come to think of it.
Oh yeah, I liked her before she was cool.)Anyway my perspective has changed quite a bit since last I read them, but I still love them.
Emily has more drive and ambition than Anne does, and her friends (male and female) are just as talented as she, which keeps her relationships interesting.
This is the only book I can think of where use of italics is a minor plot point.
LOLNADIAN ORPHAN WANTS TO BE A WRITER, IS OVERDRAMATICMG AND YA BOOKS THAT WOULD BE IN YOUR BEST TEEN BOOKS LIST?I'M READING EMILY OF NEW MOON, AND THIS DEAN GUY IS A CREEP.SUCH A PEDO.
D:I'VE TAKEN TO BOOKMARKING DEAN'S CREEPINESS TOWARDS EMILY NOW.
IT WOULD HAVE DEVASTATED BABBY ME.LOL IDK IF I'M GETTING THE FULL EFFECTS READING IT AS AN ADULT.
I DO THINK LMM IS VERY SNOBBY ABOUT HOW SOME PEOPLE JUST DON'T GET EMILY'S INTELLECTUAL ASPIRATIONS/SENSITIVITY.LOL LMM IS SNOBBY ABOUT EVERYTHING.
IF YOU'RE NOT THE RIGHT KIND OF PEOPLE YOU'RE PRETTY MUCH WORTHLESS.IT IS WEIRD HOW SHE'S HIGHLIGHTING EMILY'S SNOBBISHNESS THROUGH ILSE MAINLY, AND CONTINUES TO BE OBVIOUSLY SNOBBY ABOUT MOST CHARACTERS.
So far, I have two sets of books by L.M. Montgomery The 6 book series from Anne of Green Gables and The Emily Starr Trilogy.
While Anne of Green Gables and Emily Starr both are different characters, they share the same ideology of writing and publishing.
The Life of Anne from Green Gables to Windy Poplars was much more fascinating compared to her life after her marriage but this from point of view and I would still say if some one loves Classics have read L.
M. Montgomery's book should definitely read Emily Starr Trilogy.
Sweet and wholesome love storyI read all three books in this series. The first, Emily of New Moon, was by far my favorite. I loved the character Emily even though at times she was a little too fanciful and dreamlike for my taste. The last two books were melancholy and had too much description of trees and fairies, but I found myself wanting to know how everything turned out for Emily and her childhood friends. The final ending was very satisfying and all loose ends tied up nicely. Overall, I had no trouble reading all three books and enjoyed them.
I read this series because my friend Leslie, who has great taste, loves it. I don't know that I loved it like she does, but I did like it a lot (I read the third book in one day, for pity's sake) and fans of L.M. Montgomery certainly shouldn't miss it. I did like that, unlike that Anne books, the entire series focuses on Emily and her friends and family. My great disappointment with the Anne books was that Anne becomes a background character in the last few books.
While reading with Harper, I've been considering books that were pivotal to my identity and maturing. These three books were a touchstone in girlhood and adolescence, informing who I would become as an individual, a feminist, an artist, and an outsider. I'm excited to share these lovely and profound books with her.
I must admit I like the "Emily" books a little bit better than the Anne books--maybe I could just read three books faster than eight? :) For some reason, I was always more drawn to Emily over Anne. These books stop at the happy romantic ending, and they're a teensy bit darker than the "Anne" books, but I've always enjoyed them.
