https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99208.The_Monkey_Wrench_Gang
I put off picking up the book until just before bedtime, and that one or two paragraphs I managed to read sure did wonders for lulling me into unconsciousness.
They motor up and down the very highways they rage against, burning massive amounts of fossil fuels in the commission of their protests, all the while, blithely tossing trash out the windows.
Probably a disposable which is then tossed from a car window.)I don't know .
(After all, Billy Joe did shoot a man while robbing his castle.) I probably should have read this one when I was reading Another Roadside Attraction.
Like most other American nature writers, Abbey was a bit of a self-important pig (I can't stand Farley Mowat, though maybe he's Canadian); unlike most other American nature writers, he has a sense of humor about it.
The characters are grizzled and absurd, their actions are grandiose and delusional, and I felt a strong sense of solidarity and sympathy the whole way that I probably shouldn't reveal in a public forum.
There is a wider array of characters than normally stereotyped as environmentalists -- in fact, there are no tree-hugging hippies in this book -- and that's what makes it so rich.
I had a tough time getting through this book. Every character had basically the same personality and the story just rambles and rambles. People seem to love Edward Abbey for his out-there ideas, but they don’t do much for me at this time.
In recent times, Al Gore has credited Rachel Carson (The Silent Spring) for introducing environmental concerns into his nascent consciousness, but it is a work of fiction not fact, Edward Abbey's "Monkey Wrench Gang", published first in 1975, which is regarded as having inspired a new generation of angry young environmental activists to the practice of extreme sabotage, sometimes called terrorism, for the sake of protecting the earth.
Is it just a ringing in my ears, or do I hear echoes of Thoreau's "In wilderness is the preservation of man" here.Having been thoroughly entertained by this page turner's quirky characters and hilarious, daring escapades - the reader is left with heightened awareness of the serious moral questions concerning the nature of our relationship with wilderness and our personal responsibility and culpability.
Giving this book 5 stars would probably put me on some sort of a list, but let's be honest: I'm already on that list.
If you're at all concerned about the environment, this is a pretty good book to read.
To give my favorite example: One character starts using the alias Rudolph the Red during what would now probably be called a "direct action" campaign against various mining and logging interests.
The only reason for that name is so that, in a conversation about the weather, he can say to a girl "Rudolph the Red knows rain, dear." Brilliant.
I blame reading this book at an inappropriately young age (9 or 10?) for the violent gag reflex that occurs whenever I smell patchouli, as well as the involuntary "NOOOOOOO" that I surprise myself with every time a ratty college do-gooder accosts me with a clipboard and a jaunty, "do you have a minute for the environment?"Also, the surfeit of clunky, unshaven, back-of-the-VW-with-a-dog-looking-on-from-the-front-seat sex that occurs every second or third chapter couldn't have been good for my overall development. (That, however, is between me and my therapist.)
This novel has all the same elements that make Edward Abbey's non-fiction so compelling: the depth of his knowledge and emotions about the desert landscapes of Utah and Colorado, his poetic descriptions of same, and his eloquent condemnation of the loss of this wilderness for the sake of city-dwelling, industrial man.This book has all of that on display in droves, but also it highlights some of his weaknesses: smart-assey movie dialogue, rampant sexism and a love of bad puns.
His four protagonists all start out resembling Edward Abbey a bit too directly, although by the end of the book, when they start running out of Abbeyesque witty bravado and face real problems, they become a bit more three-dimensional.
Standing there on the light side of dusk, and in fact that whole trip, hymns and all, is one of my favorite childhood memories.And so it was with a fond recollection of my times in Northern Arizona Southeast Utah I read The Monkey Wrench Gang, a book about the beauty of this unforgiving dessert and the environmental anarchists that love it.The plot is simple - in the mid 70s, 4 characters unlikely to hang out together under normal circumstances - a young new age hippy woman, a liberal doctor/processor, a Vietnam vet turned wildman, and a Mormon polygamous white water river tour operator - have a chance meeting and hatch a plot to disrupt the building of dams and bridges, logging, and other industrial pursuits.
Second time around.First time I've read this since 1978 or 1979.The good news? It holds up! Let's farp up some bulldozers next weekend!Even better news: the brave cowboy, Jack Burns -last seen in   -has a cameo with a slight return at the end.But this is the story of George Hayduke and his pals Seldom Seen Smith, Bonnie Abbzugg, and Doc Sarvis and their attempt to reclaim the deserts of Utah and Arizona from the land reclamation ass-wipes Koch Bros., et al, Peabody Coal, Pacific, Gas, And Electr
Let's farp up some bulldozers next weekend!Even better news: the brave cowboy, Jack Burns -last seen in 
S. Department of the Interior under Ryan Zinke.Except when this book was originally published it was the Nixon/Ford administrations.Sure, it's as dated as the barnacles attached to Don Johnny's massive flanks but it's fun and it's action-packed to boot.Lots of narrow escapes abound.The heart threatens to burst Alien-like from the chest.Along with all the suspense and action, you get Edward Abbey's poetic rhapsodizing over desert flora and fauna and scary-big skies.I love this novel.
No idea to whom I'd recommend this masterpiece.Could be that like me its time has expired.
Provocative,descriptive,sarcastic, humorous, engrossing and angry are just a few of the words that come to mind when describing Edward Abbey's most well known book.
However I also believe that we don't need to grow and develop for it's own sake and I do think attitudes have changed (somewhat) since Abbey wrote this novel.
Be that as it may the message of the book is just as important today as it was in 1975, but there are a few weak points in the self-righteous armor that covers this issue.I find it interesting that Abbey resided in a town and owned both vehicles and firearms.
Abbey loved nature and it comes through in the book.
I think I would have liked this a lot more too if the characters weren't all terrible (and racist).
plus, the main hero (I guess?) is awful and claims to love "his" wilderness while a) treating native people like shit and b) literally throwing his trash (beer cans) all over the desert??
and even admitting that he doesn't think other people should drive their cars through "his" wilderness but thinks he's the only one who should??
so like, yeah, huge disappointment.
This book is a great American Classic.
It is impossible to fully describe its influence.I love reading the comments about Abbey.
Ed walked the land and knew the land.
He knew the critters like they were his friends.
He read the sky.
He was about our AMERICAN LAND and he knew it, intimately.
Somehow, the art of knowing the land has been subsumed by using public lands for exercise...and it doesn't matter a damn if you don't know the first thing about that tree seedling you just ran over with your mountain bike.
This is what matters.God Bless His Cantankerous Sexist Ass. We miss ya' Ed.
But how who doesn't not love virgin stands of redwoods and the wide, wide, endless sky of the American west and the watersheds of the Colorado?
Where's my pack and my sleeping bag because I need to go and rest on the slick rock under the milky way far from the ways for men.I read this novel to give them 400 pages of my time to explain to me why they do what they do.
That without our exploding population we wouldn't need to capture the rivers for power, strip the forests for timber and ravage the earth for resources.
Amazon.comEd Abbey called The Monkey Wrench Gang, his 1975 novel, a "comic extravaganza." Some readers have remarked that the book is more a comic book than a real novel, and it's true that reading this incendiary call to protect the American wilderness requires more than a little of the old willing suspension of disbelief.
As they do, his characters voice Abbey's concerns about wilderness preservation ("Hell of a place to lose a cow," Smith thinks to himself while roaming through the canyonlands of southern Utah.
"Hell of a place to lose your heart.
Edward Abbey was my dad's favorite author.
Somehow it has taken me 10 years to pick up one of his books, and I'm so glad I did.
The Monkey Wrench Gang makes even the most law abiding citizen (such as myself, haha) want to pour sand into the gas tank of a bulldozer.
The book revolves around a plot to blow up Glen Canyon Dam, the travesty that drowned the canyon and subdued the mighty Colorado River.
Ironically, the resulting reservoir is rapidly drying up due to drought and lack of water conservation, achieving without explosives what the Monkey Wrench Gang so desired.
Kind of disappointing after reading Abbey's 'Desert Solitaire' (a nice piece of nature writing) This book was recommended to me by several friends who are avid cyclists and environmentalists. I thought i would enjoy the tale of these four 'eco-avengers' blowing up bridges and sabotaging construction sites. Instead I was bored by the writing and upset by Abbey's unabashed sexism and racism.
First of all, I loved the drama, the ideas, the characters, but I didn't buy the ending at all so I deducted a star.
The other star was deducted because of the at times clunky writing and I think the character's histories merited further discussion.
However, I deducted one star because I felt the characters needed more of a history.
They don't burn down billboards for fun.(SPOILER ALERT)Secondly, I deducted a star because the ending really betrayed the ideas in this story.
Genteel Doc Sarvis, solid and faithful (though patently unfaithful in marriage) Seldom Seen Smith, wild George Hayduke and breathtakingly pretty if directionless Bonnie Abbzug make an unlikely band of eco-activists/bandits with questionable motives in this book perhaps loosely based on an actual group of bandits running around blowing up things they thought ecologically unsound in the 1970s.Despite lots of action-packed sequences, this book really took me forever to get through.
I did like it, I just don't think it was the most compelling thing ever.
Having read Desert Solitaire and a couple of brief interviews with the man, I was still shocked by the skillful quality of literature this book represents.
In fact, these four characters each represent an ideal of the dreams and desires of all human beings as they execute an eco-terrorist agenda.
I'm in a hurry, and had flagged about 20 particularly piquant sections, but let me share just one (p 387/388) at the end, where one of the remaining two being pursued, reflects upon the next phase of escape amongst the canyon walls: "Hayduke schemes and dreams and cannot sleep.
Good dream for a change.
I love these landscapes, so different from the Connecticut hills I grew up in – the colors, smells, and emotions of the American West are something all their own.In the endless hours of driving between parks and camping along rivers lined with desert shrubs, I read The Monkey Wrench Gang and later Desert Solitaire.
The latter wasn’t quite my style (it’s largely about desert biology) but The Monkey Wrench Gang was exactly what I needed at that time of my life.The story revolves around a group of four misfits who find each other and bond over their equal fervor for protecting the American Southwest.
There are two ways to review this book.One, as a novel.
Dialogue drives the book, and it never clunks and is often wildly witty.
The one female character is written perhaps a bit more sexist than you would find today, though she is certainly her own woman.
The characters should be darker, less idealistic.
The impact of their approach should be interpreted more brutally.But.I think the novel provides a challenging commentary on American consumerism and our unwillingness to stop and consider the cost of our lifestyle.
That it's packaged in a fun adventure story with amazing dialogue makes it all the more subversive.
We are reading this in my book club.
The only thing I have to look forward to in finishing this terrible book and ball sucking bio of the author at the beginning is getting to drink wine at book club while talking about how much I hate this book.
Big fing check off that list of things that I should do to make me punch my face.
I would recommend this book to hippies that don't shower and say that they are trying to conserve water.
And if I did, I wouldn't bother recommending a book to them.
And I'm pretty sure "The Monkey Wrench Gang" made its way into dinner conversation several times in my youth.
I was that shallow)I think I tried to read this book in college.
And I was desperately afraid it would be terribly earnest and no fun at all, like the hippies of my youth in their wooly socks and prayers for the trees.
So, I was surprised, upon finally reading "The Monkey Wrench Gang," to find that I liked it.
* It may have been victim of what I like to call the "My Mom thinks Tom Robbins is awesome" problem.
I don't know...this book really is funny at times, and he has a very engrossing (if at times somewhat exhaustive) way of describing the southwest landscape; however, it's really just too long and rambling and boring for me.
Plus, I wasn't quite sure what to do with the casual racism and sexism that's sprinkled throughout the book.
I know Abbey was a satirist, so perhaps there is an element of satire involved in pointing out the racism of the white characters on both sides of the conflict (the developers/capitalists and the eco-anarchists).
But it wasn't overtly critiqued either.
So that's troublesome.
Abbey's nonfiction has long been a touchstone for me of well-crafted writing about the American west and the environment, plus I know a guy originally from New Mexico who answers to "Hayduke." So I had high expectations.I didn't love it.
And the real weak point for me is that Abbey doesn't seem to have fully thought out the ethos he's championing.There's a whole school of thinking and writing about people in the broad western landscape ( Vertical Man, Horizontal World for starters, albeit in a Canadian context) that really probes what Abbey laughs his way past here.
It's the story of some quirky, disenchanted people who want the desert, mountains, Colorado River, and all the rest of nature to stay natural.
If one could do this on a grand scale, say on the scale of Hurricane Andrew, then the monkey wrench gang could proudly say they cost a union pension fund a bunch of money when the value of their insurance company stock dropped.
As is, it's an unnoticeable blip in some NY insurance company's balance sheet.The characters are charming and do a decent job of carrying the otherwise pointless story.
Abbey's descriptions of the American badlands are at times vivid and stark, and his passion for nature really shines through.
One of the key flaws for me was the one dimensional set of main characters, two of which I couldn't tell apart unless by name and the other two whose defining features were that one of them was the only woman in the group and the other was a doctor, referred to as "Doc" at every turn.
Other than a few edge-of-the-seat moments where the gang destroy bridges or high tail it from the authorities in the name of saving the landscape that the author rightly describes with such relish, there's not a great deal of depth to get stuck into.
A raucous and often hilarious odyssey through the desert Southwest with Abbey’s OG crew of eco-terrorists; a laugh so you don’t cry look at the symphony of destruction we humans have wrought to which the antidote is, well, more destruction. The swift prose and cliff-hanging (sometimes literally) chapters make for a satisfying summer read.
abbey's tender and evocative prose about the canyon lands is the only redeeming quality to this novel and is powerless to save it when pitted against the wooden characters, the overly long and plotless action sequences, and his indefensible championship of violence to advance a political and ecological cause.
Abbey is my favorite author and MWG is a gem. It was wonderful to spend some time with Doc, Hayduke, Smith, and Abbzug again. I wish...
