https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106728.The_Timeless_Way_of_Building
ساده بود و عمیق.
به خوانندهاش احترام گذاشته بود و نحوه خواندن کتاب را هم برای کسی که میخواهد سرسری نگاهش کند و هم کسی که میخواهد کل کتاب را بخواند توضیح داده بود.
دنبال خودنمایی و نشان دادن علم و سواد و دایره لغاتش نبود.
و همهی اینها باعث شده بود که بتوانی به راحتی بخوانیاش؛ بتوانی آن را نه یک کتاب آموزشی، که یک رمان یا داستان تصور کنی که میتوانی درازکش هم بخوانی و به اینکه آخرش چه میشود فکر کنی!اما کتابی نبود که مثل رمانها یک بار بخوانی و وقتی فهمیدی آخرش چه میشود به کتابخانه برگردانی.
و همه‌ی اینها باعث شده بود که بتوانی به راحتی بخوانی‌اش؛ بتوانی آن را نه یک کتاب آموزشی، که یک رمان یا داستان تصور کنی که می‌توانی درازکش هم بخوانی و به اینکه آخرش چه می‌شود فکر کنی!‏اما کتابی نبود که مثل رمان‌ها یک بار بخوانی و وقتی فهمیدی آخرش چه می‌شود به کتابخانه برگردانی.
با وجود اینکه ساده بود ولی باید باز هم بخوانی‌اش.
در مدت زمان خواندنم، مخصوصاً در فصل‌های آخری که نمونه موردی‌ها اضافه می‌شدند، به این فکر می‌کردم که من هم در طراحی خانه‌ای که به من سفارش شده بود با همین روش‌ها کار می‌کردم.
I found this book both wonderful and a bit frightening.
The book is not a literary masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination, but the images it paints in the mind are quite beautiful in its discussion of what we use to be and what we've lost.
As a designer, I find Alexander's proposed solution a bit scary as it reject contemporary architecture practices almost completely, even after 40 years of publication.
The concepts in this book could easily be applied to other professions and problems.
Overall this is one of the few books that I borrowed and immediately wanted to keep for future reference and rereading.
One of my all-time favorite philosophy books. It has lots and lots of picturs and the unusual feature of a fast-track design that allows people to skim the book in a day. I read the whole book and it made me cry and changed the way I look at everything.
It's impossible to look at buildings and towns the same way after reading this.Alexander's Design Patterns give a way to capture the knowledge about how parts of a system (building, town) take their place in the whole, and how to peace them together in a constructive way.
If you've come to Design Patterns from software development, you need to read this to understand the intent of a pattern language.
If you've come to them from interaction/interface/product design, you need to read this to understand how to design and assemble something that is alive.The Timeless Way of Building is profound, moving, and flowing.

He understands that the most useful buildings are ones that are created by the maximization of agency of the people involved, with the utilization of language based patterns that we inhabit to organize our behavior.
Alexander's method is more meditative and thoughtful, one that seems geared towards his process of consideration and his familiarity with the "pattern languages" that he utilizes more than anything else.
What I find most interesting in this book is that he utilizes spaces from other cultures all the while remarking that such patterns are built into our native language.
My friend and poet Jen urged me to read this, telling me it is one of her favorite and most influential books.
Other books like it include Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance by Robert Pirsig, or Seeing Like a State by James Scott, books that essentially show you how bureaucracy moves us away from organic approaches to living.
The making of anything, like my friend Jen's poetry.Alexander looks at "the quality with no name" that he finds makes buildings alive, a quality connected to human need, to beauty, to interdependence, to nature.
However, that is not giving either this book or taoism the the attention they deserve.The Timeless Way of Building describes a natural way of building.
The Timeless way describes a way of building where one recognizes the underlying forces at play within an environment - whether it be the need for people to get from one place to another, the need for privacy, social spaces, ect...
Using these pattern languages as a blueprint, one can then create environments that are similiar in their nature but also different, in that they are perfectly suited to a particular place, and particular inhabitants.
I hadn't come across this book before, although I think it may be required reading for architecture students.
Having come from a design background myself I found it interesting.It's long winded and often waxes lyrical, but the basic premise states that buildings are not for enhancing the egos of architects, but instead, they are for the people who use and live in them.
He points out how certain buildings feel 'alive' while others are 'dead' spaces.The book goes on to explain how to achieve what Alexander calls 'the quality with no name' which brings a building, even a whole city, to life.
The architect Christopher Alexander says that we can immediately feel when a place makes us feel more alive.
“When a building works, when the world enters the blissful state which makes us fully comfortable, the space itself awakens.
We and our plants and animals and fellow creatures and the walls and light together wake.”  In his masterful, poetic book, The Timeless Way of Building, Alexander called this animating spirit “the quality without a name.” “There is a central quality which is the root criterion of life and spirit in a man, a town, a building, or a wilderness.
This isn't a book about building.
It's an ode to beauty and humility that speaks to the soul rather than the mind, and those two combined are just the healing my heart needs and forgets to get in the midst of the rational technicality of architectural and planning thought.
He overcomes the need to hold onto an image, the need to control the design, and he is comfortable with the void, and confident that the laws of nature, formulated as patterns, acting in his mind, will together create all that is required."
Christopher Alexander's approach to architecture is so natural and comforting.
But the thing that I liked so much about this book is that his approach is broad enough to apply to other areas of life instead of just architecture.
He is constantly trying to describe a certain quality which he says is undefinable.
He doesn't explicitly say this, but he implies that the same quality should not only be at the heart of architecture, but also relationships, social situations, personality, philosophy, religion, business, politics, etc.
The book was published in 1979, but it feels like it was written this year.
It is intellectually challenging, as it is bound not by strict logic, but also by intuition and observation; it is personally challenging, as it encourages us to shrug off our methodologies and systems in favor of a quality of architecture and design that is ultimately unnameable; it is economically challenging, because it calls into question the very existence of specialist jobs in urban planning and city design; and it is socially challenging, as it calls into our minds an uncomfortable fact that we all know: many of our buildings, neighborhoods, and cities feel dead.
This is not a problem with the system per se; rather, it is me simply being skeptical of whether or not humans can achieve this in a modern world that is so far separated from the traditional building systems of peoples long past.
Alexander makes no bones about having been influenced by the architecture (and philosophy) of the Far East, particularly Old Japan.Alexander’s architectural gospel combines a populist attempt to undo the bureaucratisation and professionalisation of architecture, an æsthetic critique of artificial and modular attempts to impose a forced order on both human habits and the external environment, and a pattern theory that in some important ways resembles the Platonic forms.
Architecture is meant to resolve these forces and support the ordinary business of human life in its entire depth.But the patterns are only the means.
Here's one of my favorite passages from The Timeless Way of Building:"There is a central quality which is the root criterion of life and spirit of [a person:], a town, a building, or a wilderness.
In order to define this quality in buildings and in towns, we must begin by understanding that every place is given its character by certain patterns of events that keep on happening there.
The specific patterns out of which a building or a town is made may be alive or dead.
Which I like--connections between things.The companion volume is A Pattern Language, which has all the juicy details of how to build things better.I took almost a hundred pictures with my phone to serve as my "notes" on the book--snapshots sometimes of a line or two, sometimes a few paragraphs, or maybe of a great photo at the chapter intro.
The chapter-intro photographs included in the book, by the way, are almost all timeless and beautiful on their own; mostly black-and-white, but usually with a very particular quality of light that's very wonderful.
-- I know, I know it's about architecture and building, but really, if you just let go of those hard boundaries you have set up in your head, you may find that this book gives you spiritual guidance on how to live and be, how to make life and become more yourself.
You may find that as you read this you discover energy to make a meal, sew a quilt, gather friends around you, embrace and celebrate life.
And if you can let yourself build on these moments of energy and see your life as an organic building, you may find that you are shopping less, making more.
This book and its companion volumes changed the way my wife went about design and architecture.
For as long as I have known her (17 years), she has created spaces that make you "feel" a certain way when you're in them.
This way you feel can be elicited only when the spaces created have the "quality without a name." This quality is achieved only when the designer is egoless.Some practical people who disdain thinking too long about any one thing might find this book frustrating.
واقعا کتاب عالی بود،تا الان تو کتاب های معماری اصلا کتابی به این سادگی و روانی نخونده بودم،البته بخش بزرگیش بر میگرده به مترجم خوب کتاب مهرداد قیومی.ای کاش همه ی کتاب ها مثل این کتاب روش خوندنش رو اول کتاب ذکر میکردن و برای کسانی که فرصت مطالعه ی همه ی کتاب رو نداشتن به نوعی هر فصل رو خلاصه میکردن...
اگر زبان از مفاهيم تهي باشد خط كشيدن در روند طراحي بيهوده است .
This is a very important book for me. I read it regularly. Design and structure, and the development of systems that are alive. Great stuff!
Great book.
Through empirical observation of what patterns successfully resolve forces and lead to buildings that have the quality without a name, a living language can be constructed that ordinary people can use to design homes, workplaces, and towns.I am given to understand that this book, now almost forty years old, has had a great influence on the way computer software is designed.
The search for the meaning of a life well lived can be thought of as a search for a pattern language of good living, for those actions we can take to resolve the forces within ourselves and that come from our environment.
The language of the book is abstract at times, but systematic as a whole.
Things start to make more sense as you progress.I chose to read the book because it is revered in some software engineering circles.
While the book contains no mention of programming, many of its lessons can be transposed into the practices of building software.
I think its central lesson is in building your language towards your problem domain using domain-specific languages (DSLs), an approach that Lisp is renowned for.
The emphasis on catering for patterns of life in architecture can be translated as putting software usability at the forefront.
This book, from 1979, is an absolute gem that I found accidentally, following a trail from a podcast interview about I-forget-what, looking for I-don't-remember. If you, like me, are enamored of knowing how things work, this will light you up. Architecture as philosophy? Maybe. Architecture as cultural evolution? Definitely. Almost Zen in its approach, the Timeless Way is parallel to paths we never see, but perceive as we move through cities, farms, towns. You can also infer why suburbia feels so alien, strange, and contrived.
this is a fascinating book.
I love it.
I thought it would be a book that describes how to make buildings, but in reality it is a book that describes a thesis on how to make beautiful things that are natural and reflect the people who use them.
I recommend this book as it presents a novel viewpoint which can be applied to the work we do here on building services.
We need natural and appealing services that work for people.
Learning in this area is always valuable.
Would love to hear what others think.
545 pages so it is a 7-10 day read.
Alexander makes great points, but the takeaways for a designer (rather than an architect) could have been condensed to a few pages. In other words, I would read a summary or coles notes on this book rather than the whole thing if I could do it again. Alexander's writing is particularly verbose (although he does encourage skimming in a novel structural style).
Absolutely incredible. This book is very interesting as just someone with a passing interest in architecture.However, it is itself a description of the timeless way of building, from its visual design, but also the design of the information inside.Not just a good book, but a treasured item.
I don't have language sufficient to describe this book, except to say that it's one of the great rare life-changers. I've been looking for a book like this for most of my adult life, and finding it at last is a stupendous joy.
Very interesting read, unfortunately it was quite a slog as it's one of the most poorly edited books i've read. One can easily see a number of parallels between software architecture the author's take on (traditional) architecture.
