https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/302874.The_Witch_Tree_Symbol
With my adult brain- she seems kind of silly and outdated...but still a comfort- because when I was reading her as a girl- things seemed so uncomplicated.I often wished to be the daughter of Carson Drew- sorry Dad- but I did.
How many dads are there out there that would let their daughters be kidnapped and threatened 100s of times and still welcome the next mystery?
Finding the stolen antiques- sends them to Amish country- and Nancy will not let rude questions and condescending opinions get in her way.[image error]Ahhhh Nancy- I knew there was a reason I loved you.
Nancy and her friends are tracking a thief of antiques, and the girls find themselves in an Amish community in Lancaster, Pennsylvania.
No one goes to Lancaster to have "fun." You go for the food and the quilts, and to experience silent Amish judgment leveled at you.
I mean, hey, they'll let you visit their homes, and you can sashay around in your pants-suits (like an unmarried loose woman, shame on you!).
One Amish man, who casts aspersion upon Nancy and her "liberated" friends, who refuses their assistance to locate his own beloved missing daughter, is generally one of those "toxic" menfolk who borders on abusive .
Nancy Drew chases a thief in this addition to this great book series.
I read every single one of these growing up--I thought she was the bees knees
Nancy's car gets stolen yet again!
Also, there were a lot of filler events that added absolutely nothing to the plotline, such as Nancy (view spoiler)[getting slingshot hit by this little Amish boy and spending the rest of the day sleeping on the couch or Nancy saving another kid from getting hit by a beam (hide spoiler)].
I felt parts like these should have been cut out, so that the author could have developed the actual mystery aspect better.Overall, I was fairly disappointed by this.
The scene where Mr. Hoelt (view spoiler)[locks the girls in the attic and yells ‘you will die first!’ (hide spoiler)] came off as really cheesy.
I'd hoped for a treasure hunt or a lost inheritance or a mystery of some sort.
No mystery, since the thief is known from the very beginning of the book.
It's purely a pursuit, with no denouement, even.Nancy heads up to Pennsylvania Dutch country (where Amish people apparently believe in hexes?) to find stolen furniture.
The Amish people don't know why Nancy and B&G haven't started working on their dowry trunks yet; they've got the word "leddich" for a single person but I don't think there's a word for Lesbian.
Ned suggests to Nancy that they wed because married Amish people ride in covered carriages.
Ok, so this one was a bit odd.
This story is a bit of a stretch.
There is a clear case of animal abuse - the criminal deliberately hits Togo with his car, but yet nothing is done about it.
He steals Nancy's car, and we don't hear any charges being brought against him on that crime either.
These criminals can commit lots of crimes, but only get arrested for the first one.
Nancy chooses to ignore the comment and changes the subject.
I hear in the latest ND series, Nancy has more romances - poor Ned - I guess he gets tired of playing second to a mystery.
This is one of my favorites of the Nancy Drew series.
Having lived near the Amana Colonies for many years, the Amish cultural elements of the story were very familiar.
Also, working in a local ER for so many years, I remember the reputation of both the Amish and Mennonite patients were that if they came to the ER complaining of "a little cut," they might well have a severed limb.
Whereas so many of our patients came in with minor complaints that were hardly emergencies, the Amish and Mennonites only came in for very serious problems and tended to minimize their issues.
It's been almost two years since I last re-read a Nancy Drew book, and man - I forgot how much fun these are!
Yes, they are extremely outdated, but reading these is like escaping to a much simpler time (albeit one with danger around every corner if you're Nancy).
Nancy is still coyly dodging any attempts Ned makes to "tie her down", and at one point she explains to him that only married Amish can ride in an open buggy.
When Ned responds that he hopes to have an open buggy soon, "Nancy pretended not to understand".
An unusual Nancy Drew mystery, "The Witch Tree Symbol" was spooky but at the same time very charming with an Amish based background. Very good story and very fast paced!
I don't think I ever read this one as a kid, but it was awesome as expected. In this mystery, Nancy goes to Amish country and meets lots of nice and interesting people while chasing a thief.
This one was a bit more complicated than her usual stories, and I liked that. Also, Nancy had to work harder to get things to go her way in this book.
It's no Beverly Lewis. The Amish speech is super awkward like the author did the bare minimum of research lol.
Really good mystery
Nancy Drew..Book's title and cover grabbed me. Thought to be rather different than some of her other books. Alas! The witch tree symbol is just another Nancy Drew novel where no one but Nancy can solve mystery. It explores Nancy and co. adventures to find missing piece of furniture and secret regarding it. Amish community and their traditions were treat. It was overall pleasant read. Nancy and co friendship is something to envy for.
I decided to pick up a Nancy Drew from my childhood bookshelf, and see if it was as magical as I remember.I was a bit worried that "adult me" wouldn't be as impressed with Nancy's cunning as "pre-teen me." But nostalgia won the day, and I was immediately transported to the familiar world of Nancy's New England home, and her conspiratorial cousins.What impressed me as an adult was how forward-thinking these books were.
I'm not going to claim that these are total feminist handbooks, but for a book from 1955, I was struck by Nancy's independence, intelligence, and leadership qualities.
The Witch Tree Symbol  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 33rd book in the  Nancy Drew  series. Eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew finds a scrap of paper with a witch tree symbol drawn on it at the same time she discovers that valuable antiques have been stolen. And her search for the missing antiques leads her to Pennsylvania Dutch country in pursuit of a thief who stops at nothing to get rid of her. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite thin
Eighteen-year-old Nancy Drew finds a scrap of paper with a witch tree symbol drawn on it at the same time she discovers that valuable antiques have been stolen.
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
(Unrealistic, of course, that the police would be so happy to work with her and let her do so much of their leg work, but a good message just the same.) In this case the girls have to work against a smear campaign in which the robber (who they've suspected right from the beginning) uses local superstitions about witches and hexes to create suspicion.
But Nancy and her friends persist, meeting several friendly people in the area who are willing to help.
Nancy Drew books are warm, provide some good solid messages, and keep my interest even though they are somewhat dated and certainly geared towards the younger audience.
While looking through the children’s section I came across a book from my past and decided it was time for a re-read.
I was not intending to review this book, it was just for my own pleasure, but since buying this book I have found that there is a Nancy Drew resurgence among my friends’ children and so decided to review the Nancy Drew book The Witch Tree Symbol.I thought as a girl I had read all of the Nancy Drew books, but in doing some back ground for this review I found that there are over 170 books all written by various ghost writers under the name of Carolyn Keene.
Nancy is taken to pennsylvania during this mystery .Her enemies trick the people into beliving that Nancy is a witch!.But Nancy stays there and brings the criminals to justice
Nancy kicks it Amish style.
In likely the weakest of the series, Nancy and the gang head to Amish country and spend a lot of time eating and searching for the "The Schnitz".
As this quest drags along we get to hear a lot about the local diet and a little about the Amish culture.
The underlying mystery which centers around a wildly not compelling search for antique furniture frequently gets forgotten and is little missed.
In short, if you are reading the series, this is one you can skip.
I'll readily admit that part of my five star rating is nostalgia. I picked this up at an estate sale and immediately read it. Nancy is still brave and clever. In this installment, we also get to experience the life of the Amish in Pennsylvania while solving a mystery about stolen furniture and a runaway Amish girl. Of course, there are plenty of heart-stopping moments that turn out just fine at the beginning of the next chapter. That Nancy has the recovery skills of Wile E Coyote. All in all, Nancy is still fun.
What is there not to like about a Nancy Drew mystery? I found this one in the sale room of my library. It was published in 1955 and has the yellow spine. I cut my "reading" teeth on Nancy Drew mysteries...the blue ones published in the middle to late forty's. They hooked me for a lifetime of reading mysteries. As you know, Nancy Drew has kept up with the culture and dress of the times. I will always prefer the Nancy Drew of my "time". They are like comfort food which brings back memories of good times past.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
Amelia Hurley NOvatny 180 pagesNancy Drew helps a woman try to find her grandmother's stolen furniture. This leads her to Pennsylvania. There she meets a girl who ran away from home. She works at the bad people's house, but does not know they are bad. Nancy finds a strange witch tree and it helps her find the bad people. In one of the tables that was stolen, there was a clue. Many people died on the farm hte bad people lived on a long time ago. The clue is found to say,"there is a well concealed hole on the grounds."
It was only okay because there was this really slow part I did not like.
The rest was okay.
I may have really like it if it was action pacted, but it wasn't, so no I didn't like it.
I have no desire to read it again.
Ever.When the slow part came I dreaded reading the book at school.
I wasn't allowed to put this book back on the shelf.
I don't think I will ever read a Nancy drew book again!
I'm not really a fan on slow books and that's about all I got to say on my reveiw.
I don't know if I read this oen when I was younger, I certainly don't remember it. In this book, Nancy goes to the Pennsylvania Dutch Country trying to help a woman recover some stolen furniture. The words that the author uses for the Dutch folks is... interesting. Very indicative of the times. The other big point in this book is that Nancy is following a symbol that she found dropped on the floor of the robbery and she's also being accuse of being a witch.
This is the "revised" version of the original novel. As revised books go, this one has only 20 chapters instead of the 25 chapters in the original book. That book is dated 1955.Unlike many of the revised books, this one did not go through any really major changes. Material was left out, of course, to cut the length of the book down five chapters, but the original story itself was not gutted. Still, if you are a collector you will want to get both versions of the story.
I just love the amount of subversive girl power in this installment. Every time their Amish hosts try to get all heteronormative gender roles on Nancy and the gang, these girls just (politely) sass them right back."'But I like having a boy's name,' George admitted. 'It's different.'""'Yes,' said Bess, 'they are nice young men, but none of us is ready to marry yet.'"
