https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/638561.Kabumpo_in_Oz
When the Scarecrow returns to the corn field where Dorothy first found him, he discovers that his old bean pole is magical. Sent tumbling far below the surface of Oz down to the Silver Islands, the Scarecrow discovers that he is supposedly the re-created Emperor Chang Wang Woe of this distant kingdom. But is the Scarecrow ready to give up his life in Oz?I swear I've read this story with a different title.
I didn’t enjoy this as much as the other Oz books. It started slow and I wasn’t fond of the initial main characters or the core plot.
Thompson certainly is coming into her own as Oz's Royal Historian, but to me her style is nowhere near as charming and fun as Baum's.
Frank Baum built was not the typical fairy tale world.
The plots were good and I really wish that more time was spent on that versus finding more and more relatively pointless groups of Oz inhabitants that were usually there and gone within one chapter or less.All and all, not the best Oz book, but Thompson's sophomore outing still had a lot of positives and a fair amount of fairy tale charm.
Kabumpo of Oz is a big improvement over The Royal Book of Oz, Thompson's first. There are a few mistakes (the constant misspellings of "Gillikin" as "Gilliken" and "Nome" as "gnome", for instance), but Thompson does a nice job using Ruggedo the Nome King as the villain and introducing several other excellent characters: Kabumpo the Elegant Elephant, Peg Amy the wooden doll, and Wag the rabbit, whose constant spoonerisms are very amusing.
Okay, Thompson redeemed herself with this book.
No more racism or weird, unfinished plot lines - this is a solid entry into the Oz canon.
(I don't know why they can't just transform him into an object and let him disappear but all great stories need a great villain, so...).Of the characters that we will (most likely) see again; Peg Amy, the wooden doll - was kind of annoying to me.
It's a good, solid, believable entry into the canon and that's what I was looking for when I decided to try out Thompson's Oz.
I must say this is the strangest book of Oz yet.
I know the series was out for almost 20 years at this time but this is also the most adult book in the series.
This book deals with marriage, kidnapping, toucher, war, drugs, and breaking laws.
They are still very progressive books and Ruth did keep up with Frank's world I did enjoy it.
There are still moments in this book that it would not be published in today's world, due to the old terminologies.
Still a fun book to read and keeps up with the craziness of Oz with a more adult feel.
Light years better than the Royal Book of Oz, Thompson has started to get the feel for Baum's incredible world. The new characters are diverse and interesting, and the overall story was good. It still does not have the elegant pace of the original Oz books, but it gives me a lot of hope for the rest of her works.
Love the Oz books.
Prince Pompa of Pumperdink has to find a princess to marry in order to keep his little corner of Oz from disappearing, so he sets out to the Emerald City to propose to Princess Ozma with his friend Kabumpo the Elegant Elephant.
And there isn't any inadvertent racism as there was in The Royal Book of Oz, which was a relief.An avid Oz fan can still see the ways that Thompson's style is different from L.
I mean, that is clearly the wise thing to do, but I feel like Baum's Ozma would continue to try to reform Ruggedo.But overall, this was an immense improvement over The Royal Book of Oz.
Talk about your giant step up from the Royal Book!
I do not object to the romance, even though Baum rarely included romantic plots.
They seem to be winding him up in the middle of sentences all the time in the last several books, both Baum and RPT, but I remember back when he was found in Ev that he ran several days at a time when fully wound!
Don't do this to them.Also, eggs seem to have different consequences for Nomes in every book (p.s. Ms. Thompson thinks they're "gnomes," and I object).
There are some interesting parts - the runaway country, for example, and the candle people.
But a lot of it reminds me of what the Disney Channel does with Winnie the Pooh - if you throw in enough "Hoo boohoo hoo!" lines from Tigger, it sound like the story without having to have any substance.
The worst example is Scraps, the Patchwork Girl, whose sole function seems to be to make redundant rhymes out of whatever someone just said.
I would have given it three stars, since the plot was completely predictable - except for the final ending.
So it earned an extra star for pulling the rug out from under my expectations!
This was an interesting read but it definitely ended up losing a bunch of its goodness in my opinion due to it being an Oz book.
The characters following Ms. Ruth's writing have a bit more personality than the regular Oz books while being more human.
And yet within this writing you see the same repetitive formula and character building as within the original Oz series while continually using the same villain is getting to be on the wearying side.
I am definitely grateful that this is the last Oz book that I am partaking in and I won't be picking up this series again.
This was Ruth Plumly Thompson's second Oz book after the death of creator L.
At the same time, Ruggedo the Nome King is planning his latest assault of the people of Oz. Like most of the books, this story introduces several new characters to the Oz lore, and some of them are fairly charming (although Peg Amy kind of loses what makes her so at the end of the book).
I am happy to see that the book actually has a pretty strong storyline.
Several seemingly unrelated plot threads actually converge and connect at the end, which is actually rare for the Oz books.
Not a masterpiece, but pretty good.
This is the best of the Thompson Oz books, but that's not saying much.ETA: I reread this one Thompson book as part of my grand reread of Oz books, and it reminded me of how I just don't especially care for Thompson's style. Kabumpo is irritating and histrionic, he needs to take a big chill pill. And the travelogue portion of the book shows none of Baum's inventiveness: "Look, it's a kingdom of candles/numbers/whatever that are alive, let's spend two pages of puns with them and then run away!"
An improvement over Thompson's first Oz book because this one did not have any overt racism. However, it was a bit manic, with lots of weird characters introduced, then dropped, kind of like Baum's earlier Oz stories, in which these characters were introduced seemingly just for the puns, but without really moving the plot forward. I expect that as the Thompson contributions continued, she found her groove.
This was a bit of an improvement on the last Oz book, and it feels like Thompson is getting to grips with Baum writing style (and not making as many terrible puns). This is quite similar to The Marvellous Land Of Oz with its plot about secret identities and brings back some favourite characters while introducing some new ones too.
A decent Oz book. Recommended if you want to read everything published on the country of Oz. It is also an enjoyable read on its own, although it does assume that you are familiar with the ever growing cast of characters that have been added after the first book, so you'll want to have some of the other Oz books read first.
OK, I just spent half an hour writing a review to this book, and the stupid site erased it. I'm not doing it again. Suffice to say, an entertaining story, some good new characters, a few issues with charater and plot development, writing style not quite so charming but easier to read aloud. Whatever.
One of Thompson's better Oz books, I've so far read about half of her books. This is her second book following the pretty terrible Royal book of Oz, she's developing her own style and characters here and moving away from trying unsuccessfully to copy Baum.
Enjoyed reading this for my grandchildren. Stays true to the Oz world. The main characters are new but we do meet important characters from the Oz books. Adults will find this enjoyable but predictable. Kids will enjoy it.
Much better than the first Oz book Thompson wrote. She added more intriguing and fun characters to this wonderful world. I'm glad I get the chance to rediscover one of my favorite series again for the first time (since I never read Thompson's books!)
Interesting.
Ruth, Queen of the Adverb (her middle name is Plumly, after all), weaves an imaginative tale.
Not up to par with the charm of an actual Baum Oz tale..but worlds better than the Royal Book of Oz, the only other book I've read by Plumly Thompson. That one was the worst.
Great book, just like the other Oz books.
