https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/659600.Annie_s_Song
When I bought this book, I hadn’t yet read anything by Catherine Anderson, nor had I ventured into the world of American Western Historical Romances, but because so many of my Goodreads friends were raving about it, I ordered it, kept checking the delivery status, and as soon as it arrived, sat it on my To Be Read shelf, which over time morphed into a Too Many To Be Read shelf, and Annie’s Song got pushed to the back and was, sadly, forgotten.
This was my first book by Catherine Anderson and I was blown away.
I loved this book so hard.
She had such a hard life.
Mistreated by all, beat and hided away by her parents and rape by the hero's asshole brother Annie endured more than most with a quite dignity.
She was truly alone, until she married Alex.
Alex was an amazing hero.
He realized his wife wasn't slow but deaf.
He opened up her whole world and really loved her.
It was a beautiful slow burn romance and I can't wait to read more books by Catherine Anderson.
Me gustó prácticamente todo del libro, los personajes únicos y especiales; Annie, una chica dulce que a lo largo de su corta vida ha sufrido tanto; y tomando a consideración eso, todo su comportamiento es justificable por la forma como sus padres la trataban.
Alex, un personaje masculino INOLVIDABLE, (así, en mayúsculas) honesto, amoroso, único; me ha enamorado locamente, tan entregado y dispuesto a arriesgar su felicidad por la de otros.
¡Quiero un Alex!No queda más que decir que si te gusta el romance y esas historias dulces y un tanto inocentes (bueno no tanto) con algo de humor o simplemente buscas amar un personaje literario sin medida, ésta es la historia.
And he’s got a knife.Alex finds out about it when Annie’s father (who is a judge with political aspirations) comes to tell him about it, not because he wants retribution, but because he doesn’t want rumor spreading around town because it will ruin him politically for everyone to know his idiot daughter was raped.
The author does a pretty good job of painting a compassionate picture of deafness.And then comes this slow discovery on Alex’s part that Annie isn’t mentally retarded – she’s just deaf, mute, and unsocialized.
I can’t seem to find the words to convey just how wonderful this book is and others have written far more eloquent reviews than I ever could. So here’s my little tribute to a book that will be treasured and re-read many times.”The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even heard, but must be felt with the heart.”- Helen Keller ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ She had done nothing wrong, nothing. Yet the way they looked at her made her feel as though she had. Here, in the darkness, she
So here’s my little tribute to a book that will be treasured and re-read many times.”The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even heard, but must be felt with the heart.”- Helen Keller ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
She only knew that warmth of his strong fingers on her skin made her feel safe.
He felt like a man who had accidently stumbled upon a rainbow.
No, not a rainbow, he thought nonsensically.
He didn’t analyse the feeling.
When God saw fit to bestow such a gift, a man with any sense didn’t ask questions.
Alex Montgomery is sicken and horrified when learning his brother assaulted young Annie, trying to do what’s best, Alex asks the family for her hand in marriage, when she gives birth would take the child as his own and gives Annie back to her family, only when he starts to learn of Annie deafness and the abuse by her parents does Alex everything in his power to keep her safe and protect her and slowly starts to fall in love with her.
But what made Alex so great was that he loved his bother and you can’t fault him for trying to do what he thought was best for him at the time.
I must say I have loved every Catherine Anderson book I have read and was very disappointed to see that some of her earlier works are not on Kindle.
There were some titles not availble on kindle that I sort of thought to myself "I really want to read that - will I order the paperback?" ...then thought to myself "Will wait a few months and see if they will be released on Kindle".
Most of the books I have just left and never ordered in paperback.
Annie's Song was one of those books that I decided to buy on paperback - it arrived yesterday morning and I have devoured it since.
Preciosa. ❤️
3.5 SO-SWEET-MY-TEETH-HURT STARS!!!!!Even though I rated this 3.5 stars, I would still recommend this book!
This book was different.
I’ve never read a story like it.I can’t say much about the story without spoiling something.
The beginning was heart-breaking.
It was so sweet how Alex starting showing her how he loved her, in a language she could understand.
Annie is…child-like.
I dare you not to love her!
You might love it though.
2. The beginning was a little slow.3.
It was like she needed more words to meet a requirement so she added something extra at the end, but it was unnecessary.
Reviewed for www.thcreviews.comAfter reading the synopsis for Annie's Song, I wondered how an author might write a mute character and keep the story interesting without the usual use of dialog.
Ms. Anderson gives readers a lovely picture of how Annie views everything around her through her thoughts and expressions until she eventually learns to communicate.
She brings so much joy and life to Alex's previously lonely existence.Alex is a wonderful beta-type hero who is strong and protective of Annie and the baby, but at the same time is gentle, sensitive, loving and compassionate.
The characters' emotions are brought to life so vividly that the reader can feel all their pain and fears as well as their joy and happiness.
5+ stars – Historical Romance Annie’s Song  is a simple, achingly sweet, heartfelt, soul-stirring, and poignant tale of how sincere kindness and love can truly transcend cruelty, hurt, language, disabilities, and boundaries of all kinds to soothe, heal, forgive, and redeem. There are a lot of wonderful things I could say about this remarkable love story, but perhaps succinct is best: it’s precious, beautiful, and moving like the sunsets and sounds Annie so treasures. It’s a memorable romance tha
5+ stars – Historical Romance
  Annie’s Song
 is a simple, achingly sweet, heartfelt, soul-stirring, and poignant tale of how sincere kindness and love can truly transcend cruelty, hurt, language, disabilities, and boundaries of all kinds to soothe, heal, forgive, and redeem. There are a lot of wonderful things I could say about this remarkable love story, but perhaps succinct is best: it’s precious, beautiful, and moving like the sunsets and sounds Annie so treasures. It’s a memorable romance that tugs at the heartstrings. 5 sweetly satisfied stars!
La historia y sus personajes han estado a la altura y ha crecido a pasos agigantados desde que la empiezas hasta que la terminas, porque todo, absolutamente todo lo que ocurre en esta novela tiene su justificación.Es justo decir que es un libro muy de los de antes; sí, no me canso de decir que este tipo de libros ya no se publican, pero es que es la pura realidad y es una lástima, porque ojo la de novelas bonitas que nos estaremos perdiendo porque las editoriales españolas no apuestan por ellas.Ahora vayamos al libro.
Reseña completa: http://masromance.blogspot.com.es/201...Una historia desgarradoraEs curioso el tema de la inocencia de Annie, como si al vivir siempre en una burbuja y un mundo interior hayan propiciado esa pureza y esa inocencia.
Quizás viviendo en el campo, algunas cosas resultan poco creíbles, pero las escenas tiernas se suceden una tras otra.Si Annie me ha provocado ternura y algún que otro momento triste, Alex me roba el corazón.
Un hombre que, teniendo ese fuerte pasado, es todo honorabilidad.
Las escenas entre ellos son deliciosas y siempre provocan una dulce sonrisa.Creo que es una historia en la que la relación crece con cada escena y con cada momento que comparten.Una lectura muy recomendable.
More like a beautiful butterfly emerging, almost magically, from its chrysalis.
In that moment, that was how he saw Annie.This is a beautiful book.
Alex took care of Annie in the most wonderful way but I could not feel the sparkling love2.
A bit too slow for my tasteIt is a story about Annie.
Too much, I think.
Annie felt more like a child to me.
And that in turn made me a little bit skirmish about the love story.
I think it was 3.5 stars.
But the book was better than me liking it, so I'm rounding up.
Me ha parecido un libro muy tierno y me ha gustado mucho.
I read a few historicals a few years ago and thought at the time that it was just not my cuppa.
Then my very picky friend Gina started reading this book and i got curious.
If she is enjoying herself so much while reading this book, and loving every minute of it....also assures me that i will enjoy it.
This was one of the best love story i had read in a while.
Had my inner girly-girl sighing like a teenager with a crush.My friend, Rane, did a fantastic job with her review.
One that i agree 100%, so read it here: http://www.goodreads.com/review/show/...
Annie herself knows she has become deaf, but no-one around her realizes.At twenty, Annie has grown into a lovely young woman, assumed to have the mind of a six year old, and yet her parents let her roam the woods alone all day long.
He'll marry Annie, keep the baby, and send Annie back to her parents afterwards.Only, the noble hero begins to lust after her.
Further, there are people in the book who are caricature evil - the hero's brother who commits the rape, Annie's parents, the nurse who is employed to look afer her.
I have started reading this book with no expectations whatsoever.
-:¦:--:¦:--:¦:--:¦:--:¦:--:¦:-Positive:-Character development: I love every part of this book because when we first meet Annie, we meet a crazy girl who gets treated really badly by everyone including her own parents.
I really love how she developed through out this book, and how everyone helped her.-Alex: He was the cutest character ever.
-The writing: This was one of the very main reasons why I liked this book.
I was so drawn into the book I found myself crying at some scenes, and laughing at others.
-:¦:--:¦:--:¦:--:¦:--:¦:--:¦:-Negative:-I hated Annie's family throughout this book no matter what they did!!
DONE I NEED TO SAY NO FUCKING MOREFUCK IM STILL CRYING5 EMOTIONAL HAPPY CRYING STARSWOW THIS IS THE FIRST TIME I'VE READ A SERIOUS, EMOTIONAL ROMANCE IN A WHILE I PREFER LIGHTHEARTED BECAUSE WHEN MY EMOTIONS GET INVOLVED MY HEART HURTS.
I honestly have never read a novel where the hero devotes himself so much to the heroineThis romance was a slow burn, about growing out of innocence, learning to trust and love.
I really like books about traumatized or "different" heroines who are underestimated but persist and their characters grow, and show they are a force to be reckoned with during the course of the novel.
Annie Trimble is the town idiot, having caught a fever as a child that has rendered her unable to talk, her parents keep her out of sight and allow her her solitary ramblings through the woods. However, that all ends when she is brutally raped in the forest she used to roam. Alex Montgomrey is beyond furious when he learns that his younger brother her raped poor slow Annie Trimble, determined to make up for his brother he marries Annie when they realize she is pregnant. But as he becomes closer
It was both heartbreaking but completely joyous, Annie and Alex went through a long painful journey together and it built such a solid bedrock for their romance that I was left in no doubt that they belonged together.The characters of Annie and Alex were so well drawn by Catherine Anderson, Annie was so innocent and almost childlike in some ways and after being secluded from society and hidden like a dirty secret since the age of six she has no social skills.
jako lijepo i vrijedno čitanja :) na momente jako tužno ali u svakom slučaju veoma optimističan roman koji vedro prikazuje jednu drugu stranu života.
Un mundo en el que entra en acción Alex Montgomery, el protagonista y del que ya os digo desde ahora, caeréis rendiditas por él si bien al principio lo que hace no es que sea lo más inteligente.Gracias a su ternura, paciencia, amistad, ayuda y dedicación, vemos como Annie, un personaje que en un principio parece que va a ser muy plano y sin muchos contrastes, renace cual ave fénix y se convierte en uno de los personajes más complejos pero a la vez más tiernos y con las ideas más claras que he leído en mucho tiempo.La interacción entre ambos, repito, es una delicia, y a pesar de que la trama no tiene demasiados altibajos, no aburre en lo más mínimo, al contrario, engancha aún más y solo quieres seguir leyendo para saber cómo es que van a llegar a la fase final de entendimiento.Los personajes secundarios han sido otro punto a favor, desde el más despreciable de todos, pasando por los padres de Annie, los criados de Alex y el médico del pueblo, del cual soy fan también.
Anyway, the story is fairly straightforward; girl is rendered deaf after a childhood illness and her parents spend the next 12 years abusing the crap out of her.
I guess what I hated about this book was that everyone in it was stupid.
Even the doctor made a monstrously bad call at the end, and even when he suspects as much, he doesn't amend his position at all.
There was zero comeuppance for the parents, which irritated me greatly, and the father is summarily written out of the story somewhere around the halfway point.
We never see/hear from him again, which ends up being weird since the mom is still flitting about.
pero ha pesar de eso ha sido una historia tan bonita, tan bien escrita, que no puedo más que adorarlo.Annie ha sido un personaje especial, una persona a la que le han privado de todo y que casi no ha recibido cariño a lo largo de su vida.
y Alex ha sido uno de esos pocos personajes masculinos que, a pesar de las equivocaciones que comete, lo único que hace es darle cariño.
esto es uno de esos libros que te deja con un buen sabor de boca y ganas de más <3
My rating: 5+++++++ "Annie, love" stars!!!!!! I would rate this a million stars if I could!!!!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ no (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ no (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ The heroine is raped in the prologue by the hero's brother. There are no other scenes with others. In fact, when the hero gets to thinking about sex, he can't even remember the last time he had it - my kind of guy right there! (hide spoiler)]HEA: (view spoiler)[ Such a be
I would rate this a million stars if I could!!!!Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ no  (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ no  (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ The heroine is raped in the prologue by the hero's brother.
This book takes the cake and then some.This story is about a girl named Annie who has nothing but love in her soul.
He is caring, loving and longs for a family of his own - which he doesn't think he can have because he had complications from an illness when he was younger.
¿Como describir este libro? Lo leí dos veces, la primera vez fue en formato fanfic como adaptación a una serie, y me enamoró tanto que leí el original. La ternura de Annie fue algo maravilloso, y como Alex le fue abriendo los ojos (o los oidos, mejor dicho) a un mundo increíble; ambos se curaron mutuamente, y fue precioso.
Soon he sees Annie in a new light and finds a love he never expected.This story was so beautiful.
I hated some of them at times, but even then, they seemed like real people making real mistakes.Annie's mother comes off as a harsh, cruel woman.
You find yourself wondering, "would I honestly have done such-and-such differently?" Then no matter what you feel, you can't help but admire her as she moves past her beliefs and tries to help her daughter live her new life.Alex was a hard man to read at first.
I've heard people complain that Annie's a little too innocent and simple and her relationship with Alex is more father-daughter than husband-wife, but I thought the story was lovely.It's the late 1800's Oregon.
Annie's father decides not to prosecute because the stigma of having an idiot daughter might affect his chances in the political world.
It's already set in a patriarchal time, and Alex is somewhat older than Annie (eleven years maybe?), better-educated, richer, and not affected by a physical disability.
Other than how Annie is treated due to her disability, it pretty much feels like a contemporary setting.
I just finished  and I'd like to say its Phenomenal!!! its seriously amazing.For one thing I really loved the book so I'm starting to get interested in the author.and another thing that there wasn't a single thing in the book that I hated, maybe except all the misunderstanding that's happening, starting from her fear of him even after months she still feared him, but its understandable since she's deaf and neglected.nearing the end I was this close to tears, I tried my best to hold the tears bac
and I'd like to say its Phenomenal!!!
its seriously amazing.For one thing I really loved the book so I'm starting to get interested in the author.and another thing that there wasn't a single thing in the book that I hated, maybe except all the misunderstanding that's happening, starting from her fear of him even after months she still feared him, but its understandable since she's deaf and neglected.nearing the end I was this close to tears, I tried my best to hold the tears back cause I was in public, but if I wasn't I know I would have cried floods, cause the ending is That emotional.the main characters were the most adorable especially the main guy, cause he was heart wrenchingly kind, and how patient and sweet he was with her, and when he showered her with his love with the gifts how happy he looked to me from the books, because the writer described his behavior and his as if I really can see him, and I just have to say that hes now one of my favorite male characters ever, so for me its a *thumps up*
Me ha gustado mucho la historia. Es insólita, especialmente por las características de la protagonista femenina. Me ha resultado tierna y dulce, a pesar de tener bastante crítica social a la época y a determinadas temáticas (que no quiero descubrir) que también la hacen dura por momentos. Quizá mi único pero es que algunos aspectos me han resultado algo inverosímiles, pero la he disfrutado mucho.
