https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24647.Myths_of_the_Norsemen
No telling of the Norse tales I've since read has affected me half as strongly as this, my first.
I would've been about 9 or 10, and Yggsdrasil the World Tree and the various realms were described so beautifully that I dreamed of them in full colour.
I was inconsolable at the death of Baldur - on his blind brother Hodur's behalf, tricked by Loki into killing the person he loved most in the world.
I've read this volume again and again as I've grown older.
I'll always love it.
Oh Marvel Comics, like Loki, you almost tricked me.
Zamiast bazować na wizerunku Lokiego i Thora wykreowanych przez Marvella, warto sięgnąć do źródeł i poznać historie, od których wszystko się zaczęło. Mitologia skandynawska jest pełna opowieści o miłości, zdradzie i przygodzie. Niektóre są pełne humoru, inne wzruszają, przy lekturze kolejnych nasuwają się refleksje na temat ich uniwersalności. Całość stanowi wyśmienity kąsek!Cała opinia:http://www.kacikzksiazka.pl/2018/01/m...
3,5/5Como leí no hace mucho Mitos Nórdicos de Gaiman y lo tengo algo reciente, considero que son libros muy similares que cuentan casi las mismas historias con distintas palabras.
The entire Norse timeline is covered, offering a complete and concise history of the Aesir and their dealings with the Giants of Utgard, from the planting of The World Tree, Yggdrasill, right up to the last great battle Ragnarok.This book is serves as more than just a story; it is a journey through the Norse lands, from beginning to end.
I couldn’t help but tremble at the thought of Thor unknowingly lifting the Mitgard serpent and bringing about Ragnarok.The 15 tales in Myths of the Norseman will each speak to different readers.
A very good series of Norse myth stories.
Having read Green's work on myths and stories before, I can tell that he works hard to "get out of the way" of the story so you hear the voice and tone of the story.
Green's writing itself focuses on being clear and readable, which I strongly appreciate.The stories themselves are very interesting, and come from a source that people are only tangentially familiar with.
In that way they are a lot like Egyptian mythology, except that these just make much better stories.
My favourite myth was about Thor's Hammer.
His hammer is stolen by a giant who will only give it back if he can marry the beautiful goddess Freya.
Luckily, the gods manage to devise a plan to free Freya from the giant's evil clutches, which involves Thor dressing up as a girl!
I also liked some of the other stories, including the making of the Earth, which was made from Ymir the frost giant.
I think the Norse myths are very detailed!
I really like myths and legends, so I'm enjoying learning about this through reading, which I love!
This was a fairly concise, narrative of the Norse legends. I think I would have enjoyed it more had it been laid out with more information and a clearer storyline. The style of writing danced between lyric and abrupt.
Short, snappy and simple. Retrieving the scarce tales of the Nordic people, here is a wonderful collection and retelling of important mythology. Rife with themes and tales that have shaped Western literature in so many ways, the book itself was an enjoyable and interesting read! Most definitely worth a look just to see how we, as people, have crafted stories to tell over and over again throughout the centuries.
I read this a few years ago so as to gain some insight into Norse mythology before I started the Magnus Chase series and vaguely remember getting a little emotional over the last part on Ragnarok ahahaha.
Among the better renditions of Norse mythology I've read!
It’s really well written and even though I know most of the stories, I was captured in the book because it’s so well written that it makes you forget that you ever read it. I think it’s a great book.
Well told version of the classic Norse myths aimed at a younger audience.
An enchanting set of North tales packed into a comprehensive set. It shows a complex mythology of Scandinavian gods and heroes, the names of whose are still heard in English words.
I found it really interesting to read about the Norse Myths and the stories told in this book. I enjoyed reading this book as I haven't read something like this before.
I picked this up on a whim at the library even though I know not to look at books on Norse myths, because my experiences with the deities and everyone's interpretations of them tend to, shall we say, differ slightly.I really should have kept to that rule."To find fetters to hold him the Aesir turned Loki's evil son Vali into a wolf[...]"Excuse the fuck out of you, author.
Odin turned Loki and Sigyn's eldest son into a wolf and made him kill his own brother just because Loki poked fun at the gods.
Some stories went by in a blink but others dragged on a bit.
I really have not much else to say about this book, except that it is quite educational and at the end you finish it with a nice bulk of knowledge of the Norse culture (except some pronunciations, some names are impossible to say; the family tree is quite jumbled as well).
If you would like a more chewed out version I definitely recommend Riordan’s series but if you like the myths as they were told you definitely should read this book.
The only other Norse tale I've read before was Beowulf, but I'm happy to have delved a little deeper into Norse mythology.
This book has everything, from the creation of Yggdrasill (the world tree) and Midgard (Middle Earth) to Ragnarok (the Norse apocalypse) and everything in between.
Overall, this is an excellent introduction to Norse mythology.
However, I do not recommend this book to any adult who wants a more in-depth read.
Mr. Green does state that there were some discrepancies in the original myths that he had to alter or fill in the gaps to create a more linear narrative, so if you don't like retellings or want to read the original myths, maybe try The Prose Edda or The Poetic Edda.
It’s only really possible to fully appreciate Roger Lancelyn Green’s skill AFTER reading other collections of surviving Old Norse Legends.
The pace of the heroic narrative in this book never drops.
Wildsmith’s illustrations, delightfully ‘spiky’ in style, rest beautifully within the narrative.Did this book inspire Oliver Postgate and Peter Firmin to make the stop-go animation “Noggin the Nog” in the 1960s?
Whatever the answer, I think it terribly sad that given our nation’s ancestry, so few British children today have read or heard of the Norse legends.
Green does an excellent job translating the stories into a form modern readers of even quite a young age can appreciate.
The story is powerful and moving and contains tales of courage, pathos, wisdom, tragedy, and even humour.The Norse gods are of course featured, but also their mortal enemies the Giants, as well as the humans of Midgard (in English: Middle-Earth), dwarves, and dark elves.
The creation of the world, the gods venturing among men, the evil mischief of Loki, Thor contesting with giants, the appalling slaughter of Ragnarok (the Norse apocalypse), and beyond are all related here in epic prose form.
I did not enjoy these myths as I had hoped I would.
First, I have read that Green has changed certain elements of the myths therefore I wonder if I would enjoy other versions.
But what I read seemed to be full of romanticizing the making of demons from difference and a pervasive sexism which I did not enjoy.
I might look into Norse Mythology but just from this book I wonder if it is for me.I would say that this book would be better for a beginner to Norse mythology who wants to read the myths as a series of stories.
This is a great read, and a wonderful way to dip one's toes in Norse mythology.
I can't say "if you only read one book on Norse myth, this would be it," because I don't know enough on the subject to make recommendations like that (and would never advocate just reading one book on anything, really), but its prose style makes this a strongly recommended read for those interested in folklore and mythology.
My child enjoyed hearing it, and it would also make ideal reading for students at the high school and university levels, especially in excerpts.
Myths of the Norsemen is like the coolest book ever. I loved all the other books of this author, and this was definitely so exception. I loved everything about it. Yes, some of the things were a tad silly and unrealistic (as usual... it IS mythology!), but man, was it epic! The adventures were really interesting and exciting, the characters were realistically flawed and diverse, and the writing was beautifully detailed yet simply told.My conclusion (as I already knew thanks to the Marvel franchise): Loki is the best and Thor has righteous anger issues. He's also a bit... slow?
I don't know much about Norse mythology, so I can't say much as to the accuracy of the book. I thought it was an easy read, though, that covers a lot of the basic myths. I enjoyed it and found I knew more Norse myths than I thought. (It's also clear that Tolkien drew heavily from places and people in Norse mythology (which is part of the reason I read the book). For instance, at one point "these Dwarfs, with Durin as their king, made rings and swords and priceless treasures, and mined gold out of the earth.")
I read this to my nine-year-old niece and nephew, who loved it. This version of the classic myths is good for children, since it elides the vast majority of the sex and the blood and guts, while still containing a great deal of action and adventure. The kids also liked the fact that it was presented as a chapter book, with one story (per chapter) flowing naturally into the next.Personally, I prefer the original versions of the myths, such as the Edda--but for teens or adults looking for an easier to understand version, this is a good one.
So here I am, once again, wondering how Roger Lancelyn Green can make these myths so incredibly dry, and yet my child is still interested in them.This book was the latest of the bedtime story books for Jefferson, and pronouncing all the names was definitely its own form of torture. (A little help? A pronunciation guide somewhere? PLEASE?)Yet, still, it was interesting (but dry!), adding to the little bit I already knew about Norse mythology. But I was definitely relieved when it was over.
Its rare to see a book on the gods of the norsemen and though I'm an fan of greek and read one or two egyptian I've never read an book on the norsemen. myths of the norsemen is a wonderful story well told of course and very comprehensive. 256 pages is not a lot of space to tell the story of an entire religion, and roger does a wonderful job of condensing that much knowledge in the space. The complaint I have is about the source material The names are well distinct but easily confused.
Very good compilation of the stories that nicely puts them together as one long narrative. Makes it much more readable overall Side thought: it's interesting that much of the conflicts from the Norse gods is their bragging & easy tendancy to fight. As a contrast to the Greek gods who usually got into trouble with their philandering. I wonder how much of a reflection on these different cultures this is.
Read this to my kids, having read it first almost forty years ago as a child. I've always loved the fallible mortal Norse gods. And I love the way this version of their tale ends, with a vision of redemption in the face of destruction still to come. It's tragic and humane. My girls loved this book, as I did when I was young.
Not a great book. I was hoping for a good refresher on Norse mythology, but Green changes the stories a lot in order to create more of a good vs. evil situation than truly exists in the myths. The story-telling is alright, and very exciting in spots, but it shouldn't be taken as an actual depiction of the spirit of the myths.
