https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29946.Illusions
Not because the writing was so great but the thoughts contained in it were so close to what I was feeling as a 19 year old away from home and on my own for the first time.
I still believe the ideas contained here are timeless and profound.
Some of my Favorites:"Argue for your limitations and sure enough they're yours." Probably my all time favorite."We teach best what we most need to learn.""Rarely do members of the same family grow up in the same house."The idea that our thoughts can control our lives is a very powerful one and truer than many realize.
This book changed my life.
One day a girl came into the pizza parlor I was working at and I commented on her tramp stamp.
I asked what it represented and she told me it was the feather from the cover of a book, called "Illusions", and it had changed her life.
She brought the book into me as promised a couple days later with a four leaf clover as a book mark.
And, it happened to be the lucky book of a couple of other people close to me as well.
To anyone and to all, may it help shape your life as it has shaped mine.
One fateful day, he meets a strange individual who seems to have amazing abilities, including (one of my favorites)preventing insects from smashing on the windshield.I feel that this book deepened my spirituality, and reinforced my desire to live life more peacefully, and with great kindness.
I only wish I could perfect the "no-bugs-killed-on windshield" trick!!
(Remember the Kleenex commercial about the monk who saves the spider, turtle, and fish, then after he blows his nose is dismayed to see that Kleenex kill germs?
That is somewhat like me: I am always helping various critters outside--I don't like to kill anything.
I heard about the book on Esther & Jerry Hicks Video.
After reading the reviews here on Goodreads I decided to make the 10 odd minute trip to Kinokuniya to grab a copy.
A book which carries the message of how we mould our own future, our own life, our own outcomes in a very engaging way.
I finished this wonderful book in 4 hours or so.
If you need anything to lift your spirits when you are feeling down, or restore your faith in the Law of Attraction, this is one of the many books that will be very helpful.
I call anything sounding grand and oh-so-awesome but actually meaning squat a Richard Bach quote. Illusions, to summarize, is a compendium of such quotes. However, I gave the book two stars only because it is consistent with the philosophy it preaches. The idea that the book is saying anything of consequence is an illusion and you are the one attaching any reality and importance to it.The book might have had some 'message', but I was too busy smell-proofing my mind from all the shit flying around.
But once in a while there's a great dynamite-burst of fling glass and brick and splinters through the front wall and somebody stalks over the rubble, seizes me by the throat and gently says, "I will not let you go until you set me, in words, on paper." THAT is how I met "Illusions."could i NOT read this book?!?also, the back of the book has like a starry night time scene and says only "More than a great national bestseller.
A great way of looking at life." - - and since i'm on this spirituality kick, i thought i'd give it a shot.unfortunately, "spirituality" is letting me down.
If only he hadn't decided to dive in.) Also most of these poor crazed Richard Bach Fans discover something mystical and illuminating within themselves as they read the book.
Unfortunately all of them want to share this great gift with everyone, so get used to some rather odd lectures if your Partner, flatmate, best friends, or children lay their hands on a copy of this book.
If you have read Jonathon Livingston Seagull (also by Richard Bach) then this is an evolution of that first book.
Nor have you.YOU MUST READ THIS BOOK!!!!!
Richard Bach is the author of Jonathan Livingston Seagull, a book about birds, but teaches lessons relevant to humans.
It is about PEOPLE learning life lessons, not birds.
Richard Bach meets Don Shimoda, the Reluctant Messiah.
Richard wants to learn.
Richard reads more and more and Don speaks more and more.
I see this book as a wonderful book to read AND DISCUSS with a friend.
If any of you want to read this book, let me know if you would like to discuss it with ME.5 stars

This is a wonderful book! I have read it several times and with each reading I discovered a little part of myself, and remembered those times of miracles I had forgotten.
Şimdi içeriğine dair hiçbir şey hatırlamıyorum ama ilk okulda okuyup da çok sevdiğimi, çok etkilendiğimi, hatta kitaptan cümleleri ezberleyip evin bahçesinde kendi kendime tiyatro yaptığımı net hatırlıyorum. Sihirli, spiritüel bir şeyler vardı sanki kitapta.Sonra Jonathan Livigstone girdi hayatıma ve bana adımı (Gezgin Martı) bahşetti. Şimdi 25 yıl sonra burada karşıma çıktıysa Mavi Tüy, tekrar okumam gerektiğine dair en güzelinden bir mesaj değil de nedir bu?
I loved this story.
I love taking responsibility for my own life and outcome.
I love doing what I want to do, and leaving others free to do what they want.
I loved the analogy about all the creatures clinging to the sticks and rocks in the river, but one was tired of clinging and let go to follow the path the river led it down.
I loved the point that freedom is watching "your own films" not someone else's films, and the introspection that resulted when I pondered the films I actually like and what that says about life choices.
It's really predictable, and I could get the same basic idea reading a book about Buddhism without having to deal w/ the BS plot.
I'm trying to find one to link to, but really, pretty much ANY book about Buddhism (or Buddhist meditation) will give you the same ideas but better articulated.
You want to read a BETTER book about a "reluctant messiah" (not that better is really saying much) that'll give you the same basic message in a way more satisfying way?
I loved the way he started this book - with the fable...
I liked this one best: `Learning is finding out what you already know.
Doing is demonstrating that you know it.
Teaching is reminding others that they know just as well as you.
You are all learners, doers, and teachers'.
Maybe because I'm a teacher?
But I always loved that line.
Even before I became a teacher :)I think the idea that everyone is capable of performing miracles is powerful.
I also agree with Don's observation that people want miracles, not learning how to perform them.
This is absolutely the best book that I have read in a long while. There is much philosophy and much humour. And there is so much to stimulate the reader's mind into a flurry of thoughts. I could pick out so many quotable passages, but my favourite remains as one which I used on my own blog recently. If you are interested, take a look at   Writer’s Quote Wednesday – The Chrysalis Moment  .I loved it so much that I shall immediately put it onto my personal top books of all time list.
Richard Back'in okuduğum ikinci kitabiydi. ilk Martiyi okumustum. iki kitapta birbirinden guzeldi herkese tavsiye ederim. kitabin sonu cok guzeldi cok uzun zamandir ilk defa bi kitabin sonunu begendim
Richard Bach'ın malesef ki Martı'nın gölgesinde kaldığını düşündüğüm eseri.Gönülsüz bir mesih ve onun "Bu kitaptaki her şey yanlış olabilir." diye biten el kitabı. İnsan olmakla kafayı yediğimiz şu kısa(!) ömrümüzde müthiş insanlar olmaya çalışıp, hata yapmadan yolun sonuna gelmeye çalışırken hatanın en büyüğünü yapıyoruzdur belki de. Belki de ihtiyacımız olan tek şey, bir mesihin çıkıp da bize "Bildiğin, yaptığın her şey yanlış olabilir. Dert değil." demesi. Bunu hissettirmişti bu incecik kitap bana. Tavsiye ediyorum.
Illusions is a book of self learning or teaching by and indirect method, I'll let you decide.
For me it was an indirect method learning about the illusions of life and how we limit ourselves.
In this case Mr. Bach has two gentlemen who give airplane rides to people meet and we watch as one quests and learns about himself and the world.
I learned so much about myself it's amazing.
Expand yourself, take wing, and fly beyond your limits so others are amazed and you become their teacher.

fuck a bunch of this.
This was actually a life-changing book. It was a book that opened my mind as to my own thought process when I came upon other individuals having challenges with life's journey. Here's a story I wrote about it (Not for eyes under 18):JEALOUS OF THE DOG I'm in love with a man who doesn't love me. Well, love is a strange word, a strong word, a poor-excuse-to-be-miserable word. He loves me as a friend, as a sister, as a pet, perhaps. I'm always around, following him like a lost puppy. It's cruel, un
His name is Charlie, but he looks like Jim Morrison—his long, unkempt hair; his perfect skin; his blue-gray eyes; his morose poetness.
Charlie places the slice of oily, crisp bacon between his lips and teeth; gets on his hands and knees and faces Molly.
Molly licks the bacon from Charlie's mouth and gently shares it's saltiness with her master.
That's a girl.”	Even after Molly has taken her portion and has chewed and swallowed, Charlie stays on his hands and knees, lips puckered.
Mario and Charlie have dressed casually, and it feels like old times.
My favorite part of this book is the mini-story-within-a-story about the village of little critters clinging to the rocks and reeds on the river bottom.
It pretty much sums up the singular spiritual wisdom i keep going back to...
stop clinging, let go of the securities and comforts and knowns, be prepared to be dashed about painfully on the rocks.
This is how to set the soul free.
The river delights to lift us free, if only we dare let go.
Our true work is this voyage, this adventure.'The wisdom of the ages and the sages in a nutshell.
I didn't know quite what to make of this. It's a mishmash of new-age wisdom and eastern philosophy disguised as some sort of fanciful folk tale about a man with godlike powers (he can create items out of thin air, fly his barnstorming plane without fuel, and so on) and a book of aphorisms he passes on to Bach, the author who also is in this tale. It's all a bit too precious. Thank goodness it was short.
Once again a wonderful yet short tale, enjoyed this even more than Livingston Seagull. It's like reading a condensed philosophy, with key points cleverly highlighted using the 'Messiah handbook'. Bach is as ever insightful, shall definitely revisit this after some time has passed."What the caterpillar calls the end of the world, the Master calls a butterfly."
It's a wonderful short tale which has so much philosophy. I can also call it a "life changing book" but this latter depends on the way you'll perceive its messages..
بشدت عقاید ریچارد باخ رو می پسندم، حسابی با هم کنار میاییم. بگذار دست در دست هم به چشم انداز این جهان و اون جهان و هر کدوم دیگه نگاه کنیم چون خوشبختانه ما تنها نیستیم، ما رویابین های زمانه ایم
I read this classic years ago, and have now re-read it. It is a book one never forgets. I read it in Danish, so my quotes from it are my own translations from this language.The teller of the story, Richard, is a pilot, who flies from town to town selling short rides in his plane for three dollars a ride. One day he encounters another pilot, Donald, who leads the same sort of life as himself, also travelling round selling rides in his plane.Richard, which is of course the authors name, notices fr
I read it in Danish, so my quotes from it are my own translations from this language.The teller of the story, Richard, is a pilot, who flies from town to town selling short rides in his plane for three dollars a ride.
One day he encounters another pilot, Donald, who leads the same sort of life as himself, also travelling round selling rides in his plane.Richard, which is of course the author´s name, notices from the start that there is something unusual about Donald.
Overall: Boring… Directly from the book (my comments in brackets): Pg. Quoted49 The best way to avoid responsibility is to say, “I’ve got responsibilities.”75 Argue for your limitations, and sure enough, they’re yours. 90 Negative attachments… If you really want to remove a cloud from your life, you don’t make a big production out of it; you just relax and remove it from your thinking. 92 You are never given a wish without also being given the power to make it true. You may have to work for it h
90	Negative attachments… If you really want to remove a cloud from your life, you don’t make a big production out of it; you just relax and remove it from your thinking.
99	“But it is so hard to put everything so precisely…”“Just because something is hard, you don’t try to do it?
Walking was hard at first, but you practiced at it and now you make it look easy.”118	Being responsible is able to respond, able to answer for the way we choose to live.
هر پاره ای وهم است، می فهمی که؟***اوهام از آن دست کتابهاست که زیر عنوانش کل داستان کتاب را برایتان می شکافد؛ هر چند که مترجم عنوان دوم را ترجمه نکرده است.
عنوان کامل کتاب؛ اوهام: ماجراهای مسیح ناخواسته، است؛ و چه عنوان شسته رفته و کاملیست برای محتوای کتاب.داستان روایت برخورد ریچارد با دانلد شیمودا مسیح دوران است.
I can't endorse its message outright, - and you can probably guess some of the narcissistic tendencies of the work from the subtitle - but Bach is pretty straightforward from the outset that what he's doing is telling you what it would be like if a real-life messiah met him and then taught him how to join the holy club.Yea, that's the premise of the book, but Bach has some beautiful passages - learning to walk on water, flying around the Midwest(in a plane), and a couple good thought provoking aphorisms along the way.It's also 180 pages, big print.
