https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/333071.Ever_Increasing_Faith
Contains some extraordinary accounts of healings and miracles through the life and ministry of Smith Wigglesworth. The chapters which I gather were primarily written for pentecostal magazines aren't particularly cohesive so the book can be picked up and put down as suits.Smith was certainly a man of great faith and manifested most of the gifts of the Holy Spirit at various times. The book includes accounts of people being raised from the dead - much to the surprise of relatives who had assembled to mourn the impending death.
This is one of the best books, it is part biography because he tells true stories of how he had dealings with this person of that and how he prayed for them and they were healed; his encounters with unbelief, and so much more. He teaches through true stories of his life, and that is what makes this book such an enjoyable read.It should be listed MUST READ for everyone seeking to grow in their knowledge of God and the gifts of the Holy Spirit.
This is a book I read repeatedly, one chapter at a time, with plenty of time in between to meditate on what I got out of it. So encouraging, so challenging, so exciting. Smith Wigglesworth is in my personal "faith hall of fame."
This book will destroy your religious theological god box. He is so much bigger and mightier than how our mostly apostate churches represent Him! I want the relationship with Jesus that this man had, and I am willing to follow Jesus anywhere to have it.
This book is written by someone who took Wigglesworth's messages and converted them into book format. It reads as though he is speaking. Will build faith and encourage action in the name of Jesus. (Note: 8 of the 23 Chapters are duplicates from book compilation "Healing" by same author)
A classic, at times it seemed disjointed and tedious with facts of miracles but all in all very encouraging.
i want this book
You cannot go wrong by selecting a book written by Smith Wigglesworth.His life is a life to be sought after.
People often wonder why they cannot attain the results of people like Wigglesworth.
But when you read his books, you get an understanding of his total commitment, relationship with God, obedience, and denial of his flesh that are all necessary to underlie faith.Why don't we have the faith of Wigglesworth?
until it does?This book will show you the lifestyle that is required to sustain and grow your faith.
Powerful and inspiring Smith Wigglesworth is famous for the amazing healing anointing God placed upon him. So it only makes sense that his words would be anointed as well. Some of the best teaching I’ve read on: healing, baptism of the Holy Spirit, tongues, and of course faith. A must read for anyone wanting to be used mightily by God.
Another collection of accounts of the blessed ministry of Rev. Smith Wigglesworth. As noted by others; the accounts are a previously published collection of sermons/writings and can be read by section with no loss of continuity. I found this book and others by Smith Wigglesworth to be faith in action, of great value. Recommended highly.
I read this book so many times, I wore the cover off. The miracle stories were so encouraging, I wanted to rehearse them over and over and over again. Smith Wigglesworth has a way of communicating faith that makes you want to shout, "Yes, no matter what, I will not doubt. I will believe!"
If you haven’t read any of Smith Wigglesworth’s books, you’re missing out. He was a great man of faith, and his stories will inspire you and cause you to hunger for a deeper relationship with Jesus Christ, and the manifestation of the Holy Spirit in your life.
EncouragingGod will always do what He says He will do. This book reminds us of that, a true faith builder.
So much to take inThis is a good combination of teaching and personal stories concerning faith and the Holy Spirit. It gave me a lot to think about as I walk with God.
Captivating and a wealth of much needed revelation for the times we currently live in. With so many breakthroughs in modern medicine, a person's faith is more in doctors than in Jesus. This book will open your eyes to the truth about the One dwelling in you if you are a born-again believer and have the infillling of the Holy Spirit.
I listened to the free audio version of this book read by a voice-over to sound like Smith Wigglesworth himself.
It's a very inspiring book and full of stories of the supernatural power of God touching regular folk in the most desperate of times.
I'd recommend this book to increase your faith to believe God for the "impossible"!!
You will realize, things only seem impossible until you are given the understanding that it's God's will to change your circumstance and He already provided the answer!
Here's a link to listen to the free audio book, "Ever Increasing Faith" by the late Smith Wigglesworth.
This guy was amazing.
A very blunt, straightforward man with an unorthodox approach to theology in light of today's soft-handed charismatics.
Bottom line, all that said and I wouldn't know the first word to describe what this man has witnessed and been apart of in the evolution of God's will through the Pentecostal movement.
I'm not one and personally have had some experiences I wouldn't repeat but I can see without doubt why they named it that and him the father of it's movement at the turn of the 20th century.
Wigglesworth is one of the greatest Jesus-loving men to ever walk the earth. This compilation of sermons, testimonies, and scriptures completely blew my mind and challenged my faith. The title isn't a casual title, it's a promise. If you want to learn more about what it means to be Christ-like, this book is the match you need to start the fire. Amazing, amazing revelations from a true God-chaser.
I enjoyed reading this book and Smith Wigglesworth's experience helped me see Faith beyond my imagination. Faith and fervent Prayer from a righteous person is what yields result. We find ourselves praying for so many hours and nothing happens. When we pray in Faith, something must happen. Faith steers the hand of God as our faithful cry in prayer reaches His throne.I have another book of his in my collection and I am more excited to read how God worked through him. His testimonies are sermons.
"For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith. Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them" (Mark 11:23, 24)Bless the name of Jesus!
Amazing I have heard about this man but ever read any of his work. The kindle version is littered with mistakes, but it is a amazing book showing the power and grace of God and the faith he had is achievable. A must read.
Challenged me to actually believe God can do the impossible.
Wigglesworth was certainly a man of great faith. There are several accounts of many people being healed through his ministry. He was a really courageous man!
An average man yielding himself to an Amazing God!
Smith Wigglesworth's faith was simple and challenging.
One of the best book on faith you'll ever read. Smith walked in faith and power and probably knows more about faith that any contemporary.
Received a copy of this book from Rod and Marion Hall after we recommended "Chasing the Dragon" to them.
A fantastic book to remind you the gift of Holy Spirit, how to exercise, use it for the Glory of God. What He could do so can we just believe and experience the power of God in life
Faith Classic
Have read many time over and keep it handy.
