https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162763.History_of_Modern_Art
Exceptional book, which I studied at MIT for a course in the Humanities in about 1972-73. Wonderful.
Read this for my modern art class...
for it being so expensive I wouldn't have expected so many black and white photgraphs...The text for this book is mediocre but it covers so much time that I guess its hard to get into any real detail...
text mostly focusing loosely on the style of the paintings depicted in the book but gives a small amount of general background info on artists...The book also comes off as pretentious and opinionated in places, which lost it major brownie points with me… so I would not recommend this book for new comers to modern art…
If you're an art major trying to go through your art history class or just an aficionado, or someone looking for general knowledge, this could be a good starting point.If you're serious about art criticism and theory you should check "Art since 1900" by Foster et al. That's an excellent starting point.
After this book sitting around for years, I decided to actually read it from cover to cover. Not much depth... but, what can you expect in a book about THE HISTORY OF MODERN ART. Not much depth is what you can expect. Perhaps this book is used for classes. Hopefully with supplemental texts.
Well, I believe it is kind of impossible to read it all. But I am always reading that book, and I will keep reading for long years.
Amazing book specially if you want to prepare a unique graduation project.
:)
پاریسِ دهۀ بیست، شاهد بزرگترین نوآوری های عرصۀ هنر و ادبیات
709.04 A743 2013
While Arnason's text is informative, this reads more like a piece of survey literature than a detailed account of the history of modern art. I highly suggest a supplemental text, such as _Theories and Documents of Contemporary Art: A Sourcebook of Artists' Writings_ (Kristine Stiles and Peter Selz) for a more complete experience.
Friends, at 832 pages this monumental text is a serious commitment (Okay yes there ARE lots of pictures!). It'll take me a while, but these eyes are on the prize. Next stop: the rise of the Impressionists and the Avante Garde. Gentlemen, and lady, please line up when I call your name: Manet, Monet, Degas, Renoir, Cassat...
Not bad, although it could be a bit deeper in some places, although there is a very even distribution of information among the works covered by this book. Useful in classes and it came to a very good use by me.
Copyright 1998. I still don't know enough about contemporary art, and I remember absorbing very little when this was my textbook. Many of the photos are B & W. Something to add to the "subjects to study further" list, with a newer book.
I read this for class. The first semester of 20th Century Art History at UW. I've read the first part about twice and am about to do my final for that. In a year i'll take the second half but i'm taking the book off the list for now. I'm though P438 and have learned so much
An expensive textbook for my art history class. To be honest, I don't like the writing style of the author because when you have to memorize something, you'll find you need to rewrite almost everything....However, if you want to understand thoroughly about modern art, the book is a good choice.
This book was a great read!
this bbok was ok because the paintings were cool but the description was not that great.
my art hist text
20th Century Art history course textbook, Westfield State College, 1999/2000.
As I previously knew very little about art after WWI, I learned a lot from this book. It will help me to appreciate modern art more than I did before.
beautiful picture book, heavy enough to break your foot twice
Good text book, but a beastly read.
ah, art school. i actually read all of my art school text books, still have them, and still use them.
اطلاعات دقیق همراه با تفسیر از اثرهای هنری موثر در سبک های هنری در معماری نقاشی و پیکرتراشی
Great book high lighting major point, and keeping away from tedious information. Quality reproductions inside and a good addition to any art historian/artist library.
very good
Profoundly changed my life. ~ Steven
I read parts of this book for a class.
it was great
