https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16297.Cards_on_the_Table
It feels like I am finishing books up so slowly lately - June wasn't a strong reading month.Thanks to Hercule Poirot, it ended well - the Belgian detective dominates the story from start to finish.
That may sound like it's something needless to say, but Agatha Christie did tend to have some Poirot books where the beloved detective didn't even show up until the second half or toward the end.
In this case we open up with him at a party and end with him entertaining survivors.The story was fascinating.
The ending line was just hilarious too - have to love the people who dare to tease the detective.
سه کاراگاه و رمان نویسی به اسم خانم اولیور و چهار تن دیگر که گمان میکند یکی از اینها مرتکب قتل شده است.
سپس چهار کاراگاه و رمان نویس باهم و چهار تن از افرادی که یکی از آنها مرتکب قتل شده، مشغول بازی بریج میشوند، و پیش از بازی؛ شیطانا قاتل واقعی را تحریک میکند.
جالب ایم که هیچ چیز که به قاتل مربوط باشد پیدا نمی‌شود و پوآرو برای شروع از امتیازات بازی بریج استفاده کرده، و فکر قاتل را دنبال میکند، و سرانجام میفهمد چه کسی به قتل دست زده استا.
The idea is brilliant. The beginning is quite orthodox. Also this is unique novel because all four of Christie's creations- Ariadne Oliver, Col Race, Poirot and Superintendent Battle join hands to solve the murder. There is reference to a book Body in the library which Agatha later used for Miss Marple mystery. The plot is unique and investigation depends more on the psychological profiling than any other solid clue. From the beginning we know that the murderer is from among the four suspects and yet there is no clear clue. Interesting read
On the other hand, the task they take on turns out to be a bit thin — at least at first.A cruel globetrotter and art collector named Mr. Shaitana gathers eight people for a party.
Perhaps, in this day of FBI profilers, other readers will think Dame Agatha was ahead of her time; however, to me, it seems like a faddish idea like eugenics or John Harvey Kellogg’s crackpot health regimen that seem crazy a century later.
So far, this is the only Agatha Christie's story that I could guessed the villain correctly, based on the Bridge plays.
A little experience in playing Bridge would help).Too bad I borrowed this book from my college friend, and until now I have no chance to re-read it again.
it should be fun re-discovering the villain again if I could re-read it (assuming my current Bridge skill is as sharp as at my college period.
LOL)UPDATE: I saw the adaptation and the story was good in drama and plot twists, then found out that the 4 bridge players on detective tables were 4 recurring characters from Agatha Christie's universe.
Unlike other Christie stories, at the beginning of Cards on the Table, we only have four suspects.
I believe this is one of Christie's best works and even of the genre, since analyzing motives and studying personalities is one of the best things about detective fiction, and the book is packed with that.
But, I believe this is inevitable since the novel is purely psychological.
At the end, you will realize that one of the four suspects only could have committed the crime the way it was committed.
His or Her character can be seen in every detail of the crime.
Rating: 4* of fiveThe Publisher Says: It was the match-up of the century: four sleuths--Superintendent Battle of Scotland Yard; Mrs. Ariadne Oliver, famed writer of detective stories; Col. Race of His Majesty's Secret Service; and the incomparable Hercule Poirot - invited to play bridge with four specially invited guests, each of whom had gotten away with murder!
Ariadne Oliver, an author surrogate character for Mrs. Christie herself, makes her first filmed and literary appearance here.
It's one of the pleasures of the films that the actors cast in Christie's roles are uniformly excellent craftspeople, and Wanamaker is no exception.In watching this adaptation, I felt a wee bit seasick.
However, the cat-and-mouse game goes very badly for Shaitana as he gets murdered during the evening.I don't know bridge (it is somewhat similar to 56, which we used to play in college), but I know the basics - the key factor here is that during a hand, one player becomes "the dummy" whose hand is exposed and who cannot take part.
During the evening, each of the four "murderers" have been dummies, leaving them free to walk around do the act.Now Poirot must dig into the past of each of the four suspects to come up with the solution.The beauty of this story is the very narrow field of suspects.
Cards on the Table, is my very first Agatha Christie novel and surely i made a fine choice, because the writing is excellent, the psychological games exquisite and i couldn't get enough of the tiny details and clues that were hiding in every page.Actually, crime-mystery isn't my favorite book genre, but i love the TV-series of that kind.
Agatha Christie is a marvelous author, a true expert in weaving and exploring personalities, motives and detailed psychological profiles for her characters and surely the best one for a novice like me.
I would have given this book four stars if only the end wasn't so rushed. I've always commended Agatha Christie's ability to create unique and innovative cases, and admire her approach via psychology. This was even better in this book, because physical clues were almost next to nothing. Also, I liked how the official person involved, Superintendent Battle, was not a dim-wit or a lousy person, but actually contributed to the case. I loved Mrs. Oliver and she was written like what I imagine Agatha Christie herself was.
This was one of the best Agatha Christie books I have yet read. Nine people at a bridge game, one murdered, four suspects and four above suspicion who investigate. I have to admit I picked the wrong person as the murderer and Christie gave me quite a surprise at the end. I liked that though because the clues had all been there and I was just not detective enough to pick up on them. Another career that is not for me!
It is one of the great, classic Agatha Christie mysteries.We have 4 suspects (who allegedly all successfully got away with a former murder), all of whom could have committed the crime. And we have 4 "cops": Hercule Poirot, Superintendent Battle, Colonel Race and Mrs Ariadne Oliver (alterego of AC herself).It is a very enjoyable book and I like to think that Agatha Christie had fun writing it as there is no small amount of self-mockery & criticism possibly against her critics included.
Stile: impeccabile. Trama: Sembra facile, ma non lo è. Ho ADORATO la signora Oliver. Il suo personaggio ha dato la possibilità di inserire contenuti metaletterari e riferimenti alla letteratura poliziesca in generale. INon riuscirò mai a capire il bridge, ma mischiare le mosse della partita ai movimenti dei personaggi è stato geniale.
Cards on the Table is one of my all-time favourite Christie novels, because in this one all three strengths shine.The setup is delicious - four successful murderers playing bridge at one table, four famous detectives at another.
At some point in the evening, while being dummy, one of the murderers wanders over and kills the ninth person in the room.Detective-wise, Colonel Race is the odd-one-out here - I always quite like Race, but he seems put in here to make up the bridge table, so to speak, and doesn't have much chance to shine when luminaries like Poirot, Inspector Battle and Mrs Adriadne Oliver are there.
Cards on the Table Poirot #15“Real life’s a bit different,” said [Scotland Yard Superintendent} Battle.“I know,” said [mystery novelist] Mrs. Oliver.
The core of this case is the murder of a mysterious “foreign” (always exoticizing the other, this Christie) snuff box collector, a Mr. Shaitana who organizes a bridge party to exhibit yet another “collection”--of murderers--(four people he knows who have committed murderers and gotten away with it.
Shaitana also invites Scotland Yard Superintendent Battle, Colonel Race of the Secret Service, Ariadne Oliver, a famed mystery novelist, and Hercule Poirot, a semi-retired Belgian detective.
It starts with Shaitana having a dinner party, where he invites 4 detectives and 4 suspected murderers.
One of the detectives is obviously Poirot which means that there is going to be a murder.
I mean, death seems to follow this guy all the god damn time - so of course when the host of this dinner party is found dead I wasn't really shocked.
I really liked how Poirot worked this case with the other detectives but then he was the one who figured out who had done the dead in the end.
This made for a pretty exciting mystery with plenty of revelations and uncovering of secrets, right up to the denouement, where it is Poirot who solves the case, but not before another surprise twist just when you think you have the answer.This was an interesting read both in terms of the mystery itself (I certainly didn’t guess whodunit), and the investigation―one can see the contrasts in the methods the three detectives use, Battle his more conventional skills of investigation, Mrs Oliver, her intuition, and Poirot, his grey cells.
Very good, focused novel, with only four suspects. I'd have enjoyed it more if I had the first clue how to play bridge! Not one of my favourite Christies, but still hugely entertaining. Loved Poirot's insistence that he could only solve the murder once he'd found out the bridge-playing technique of each suspect!
رواية رائعة وغامضة بمعنى الكلمة مليئة بالألغاز وحلها كان ذكياً وعبقرياً وضعت الكاتبة الأضواء على شخص ومن ثم طلع شخص لا يخطر على البال بحل واسباب ذكية ورائعه جداً تعتبر من أفضل الروايات التي قرأتها إطلاقاً أنصحكم بقراءتها تحياتي
Ôi trời, ôi trời ơi. Cứ tưởng kẻ giết người đã được tìm ra rồi chứ, ai ngờ khúc cuối ông thám tử dễ thương vui tính người Bỉ Hercule Poirot tung một "quả" ngoạn mục bất ngờ, làm hết hồn luôn. Thế mới biết, đừng có đùa với Poirot và Dame Agatha Christie :D
The book starts with Agatha Christie's disclaimer that People expect the crime to be committed by the least likely suspect and not all murders are solved through clues.
And so here is a book where there are no physical clues to the murder and Poirot (and co) need to rely on psychological profiles of suspects to arrive at the killer.
In one of the fun parts, she takes a dig at herself where she says almost all the books have the same plot and how she gets angry letters from Finns(while Poirot is Belgian) on how she has got it wrong about their people.An unconventional cards on the table mystery.
داستان جنایی- معمایی پرکشش و غیرقابل حدسآگاتا کریستی در این کتابش چهار نفر رو کاندید قاتل بودن میکنه.
هر چهار نفر جرمی در گذشته مرتکب شدن.
خواننده در طول داستان حدس هایی در مورد این که قاتل کیه میزنه.
اما فصول آخر کتاب کاملا گمراه کننده هستن.
طوری که احتمالا در هر فصل خواننده در نظرش تجدید نظر میکنه.روش پوارو برای حرف کشیدن از دیگران جالب بود.
حدسیات خودش رو به عنوان چیزی که از اون خبر داره برای مخاطبش بیان می کنه.
به قول معرف "دستی میزنه".
مخاطبش هم که میبینه پوارو از موضوع اطلاع داره، خودش جریان رو میگه.
Another top mystery featuring Hercule Poirot. It's a mystery with three bonus mysteries entwined...I know how good is that?! Really enjoyed this one.
Four sleuths start off proceedings,but inevitably Poirot is the star of the show.There is a little bit of Christie herself in the book in the character of Mrs.Oliver,the detective story writer.There are quite a few twists and turns towards the end which take the reader by surprise.
Poirot, Superintendent Battle from Scotland Yard, Colonel Race a Secret Service agent, and Ariadne Oliver an author of mystery novels who is reminiscent of Christie.
Mr Shaitana settles into an armchair in front of a fireplace in the same room as Roberts, Despard, Lorrimer, and Meredith.
When Poirot and Colonel Race go to bid Mr Shaitana good night they find that he has been murdered.
This wasn't one of my favorite Christie novels but it was still an enjoyable read and in typical Christie style the reader is left guessing until the very end when Poirot gathers everyone together to reveal the identity of the murder.
Como siempre Agatha Christie no deja de sorprenderme, y gratamente además.En está ocasión un crimen (o varios,...) a la espera de que Poirot los resuleva.Me ha parecido muy original el planteamiento: un coleccionista de asesinos, una cena con asesinos y detectives,...Mi personaje favorito ha sido la señora Oliver, un alter ego de Agatha Cristhie, en el que se ríe (de una manera muy sana) de su propia profesión.Genial.Imprescindible para los amantes de la novela policíaca.
Now I have us up to the date for the dinner and we have the previously mentioned characters, Poirot, Inspector Battle, Scotland Yard's best representative, Mrs. Ariadne Oliver a well known writer of detective stories, and Colonel Race, a Secret Service type of man, usually to be found in some outpost of the Empire if there is trouble brewing.
The other four - the let's solve the murder group follow Mr. Shaitana into the smoking room, a room that sounds awful to me, and find another table set up and soon Poirot, Mrs. Oliver, Battle and Race are also playing.
M. Hurcule Poirot is one of eight guests invited to Shaitana's for a bridge party.
Shaitana suspects four of them of murder, and believes this is his chance to prove himself superior to some of the greatest sleuthing minds of the day--for in addition to Poirot, three other "great minds" of criminal investigation are invited.
Poirot, Superintendent Battle, and Mrs. Oliver (the mystery-writing authoress also present at the bridge party) are thrown into a very odd mystery.
Furthermore, Shaitana's premise (revealed privately to Poirot before the party) was that four of them had murdered before--but none had been caught!
U pitanju je krimić Agate Kristi Karte na sto (1936), delo koje se smatra jednim od najzanimljivijih eksperimenata u karijeri „kraljice zločina“.
Broj osumnjičenih u krimićima je obično veliki, neretko dvocifren – u ovom romanu ih, kako spisateljica ističe u predgovoru, ima samo četvoro.
Roman Karte na sto je značajan i zbog toga što se u njemu po prvi put pojavljuje krimi spisateljica Arijadna Oliver, alter ego same Kristijeve.
Zahvaljujući njenom učešću u istrazi, čitaoci su u prilici da saznaju i dosta toga o postupku pisanja kriminalističkih romana, pa Karte na sto dobijaju i primamljivu meta dimenziju.Još klasičnih krimića: http://citymagazine.rs/clanak/tri-kla...
THE perfect Poirot novel.
But if you love Poirot, this is his ultimate case: pure logic, pure reason.
No red herrings, no "least likely" suspects.
Four suspects, each of whom has equal motive and opportunity, in a closed setting--I kept expecting the solution to somehow be the butler or something sneaky, but no!
Dame Agatha plays absolutely fair; her cards are on the table indeed.
It IS one of the four suspects, and yet somehow she still tricked me!
An absolutely flawless mystery, the purest puzzle of them all.
