https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/513210.Darksaber
Anderson's characterization of the Big Three (Luke, Leia, and Han) is a weak dilution of their portrayal in the original trilogy.
She makes Luke feel incredibly guilty for having the Force, which I think qualifies her for Worst Girlfriend Ever, considering Luke is the most important and most talented Jedi in the universe.
Madine gets very little attention in RotJ, so essentially, Anderson got to use him as an original character.
I want to see Madine and some Republic commandos infiltrate Daala's base with Han (only if another author was writing his dialogue.
Amateurish. Ridiculous improbabilities, even for SW fiction. Two-dimensional characters.
Meanwhile, Daala attempts to unify the Empire and strike out at the heart of the New Republic.NOTE: Years ago, I read this book, and recently listened to the audio version.I Liked:I know a huge complaint about this book is how it deals with yet another superweapon (the third for Anderson).
Both were important and interesting aspects of the story.I Didn't Like:But this doesn't mean Anderson's book is perfect, only better *gasp* than its predecessors, both the Jedi Academy Trilogy and Children of the Jedi (personally, it's pretty sad that this is the best of the so-called Callista trilogy).
My goal (unrealistic as it is) is to eventually have ALL of the Star Wars Expanded Universe novels (post-Episode VI: Return of the Jedi, that is.
Anderson returns as the author of this one, and it may be due to the fact that the previous two authors made a mess of things, so he was invited back to clear things up, which he does, nicely."Darksaber" is (almost) everything one comes to expect from a Star Wars novel: exciting, action-packed, fun, and with just the right amount of pathos and comedy to even things out.Anderson carries on a few story lines started in "COTJ", most notably the love story between Luke and Callista, a former Jedi Knight who died, was a ghost trapped in the computer of an Imperial dreadnought, and returned to life by inhabiting the body of another Jedi.
The Jedi, who I have come to despise, manage to escape the main Imperial fortress without sustaining a scratch, Luke and his girl manage to get a stranded band of Wampa hunters killed without feeling a shred of regret, and a number of teenagers manage to PUSH an entire Imperial fleet away at the expense of only one individual (who I felt no sympathy for whatsoever).
At the end I was unhappy to see that Callista did not, in fact, die, and after this book I lost a lot of respect for Luke Skywalker.I highly recommend avoiding this book.
Such a fun story, one of my favorite star wars novels for it has all of my favorite characters in it! Some may not enjoy Kevin's writing style but it suits me! If you are looking for a book to make the world melt away and to get lost in, you should give this one a chance!
I really enjoyed reading this novel, not for any literary reasons but because it was full of action and tied a lot of other plots together from other books.
The action sequences were better than most I have experienced in SW novels and seemed much more like the movies.
I also enjoyed how the author linked events in this book back to other books and the movies through well-written flashback sequences.
The first was the single-dimensional character of Callista; the second was the new superweapon (yet another) which was doomed to failure from the start and hence, not a real threat; and the third problem was the chronology.
After reading the Jedi trilogy by Anderson, I was worried that I may find similar problems in Darksaber when I read it again.
Unlike some of Anderson's earlier books, I was very interested in all of the characters and storylines.
I would recommend Darksaber mainly to star wars fans and science fiction fans, it is entertaining all the way through.
The only problem I have is I felt that Admiral Pellaon was made into a weak character, nothing like the strong leader in the Heir to the Empire trilogy when he fought with Grand Admiral Thrawn.
The weakness of his character made it unbelievable after reading about him in earlier books.
A Quickie ReviewDespite all the critical drubbing he seems to get, I usually enjoy the writings of Kevin J. Anderson. Whether it was his Jedi Academy trilogy, or his DC-Comics-based works (The Last Days of Krypton, Enemies and Allies), I almost always thought they were better than others did. However, as much as I hate to say it, this one was yet another disappointment from the Star Wars expanded universe. Only somewhat interesting, a bit hard to follow, lacking in action...that's not what I want from a space opera novel.Content Concerns: Two or three profanities, and some slight violence.Score: 2.25/5
Utterly unremarkable. Part of a sequence that included Children of the Jedi, Planet of Twilight, and the Dark Fleet Trilogy, all of which I forced myself to read, then summarized all six for a friend who was reading them with me (I didn't want her to stop in horror).
May Callista die.Right now, I'm upset with Luke because I know what happens later on in the books, so him spending all his time talking about how Callista is his "one true love" is making me really sick.
This book is pretty darn terrible. Not even worth reviewing. If you're bored and have nothing else to read...go ahead. But I warned you.And if you read this book and liked it...good news...the Lucas people will be taking your money for years and years to come in exchange for very bad novels.
Having completed "Darksaber", I am now 2/3 done.The high school Matthew and the adult Matthew have very different reviews: in high school, I was bored by "Children of the Jedi" to the point I didn't finish reading it and I breezed through "Darksaber" with high enthusiasm.
Simply put, "Children of the Jedi" had much better character development and the writing was higher quality.
Also, there's no resolution to how Palleon's 17 Imperial-class Star Destroyers escaped from the fringes of the Yavin system (maybe described in the next book?).This book is worth reading, but is surely for a younger audience.
Fortunately, I found that I actually rather enjoyed it, and while not every subplot is a home run, I felt Darksaber had a lot of fun elements, developed some of the secondary characters particularly well, and built upon the ongoing mythology of the Star Wars universe in interesting ways.The book opens with Luke Skywalker and Han Solo disguised as Sand People the familiar desert planet of Tatooine, making their way to Jabba the Hutt's palace for an investigation.
Another now redundant expanded universe book read and in fairness this was one of the better ones..u
My opinion on this book is that it’s a descent book that I can give sense that it tries its best.
She cares for the empire and still loyal to the empire by trying to unified the fractured empire “I serve the Empire.
I have always served the Empire, and I will never upon any other loyal Imperial.” (pg.71).
I will serve under any leader who will devote his forces to defeating the Rebel Alliance once and for all.” (73).My opinion on this book is that it’s a descent book that I can give sense that it tries its best.
thank god this one got thrown out because this book SUCKSto express how terrible this book is, let me just say that the wampa from ep5 shows up, out for REVENGE, and luke has to fight itjust a very, very shallow book.
i know daala doesn't show up for the first time in this book but JESUS CHRIST!!!!!!mara attempts to crash her skipray with her and luke in it and plays it off as a joke, but she was clearly trying to free them both from this shitty, shitty bookthis got an entire star solely for the scene of daala killing those asshole guys, which is the only reason i read this book in the first place
3.5 stars One of the classics of the "old" (or whatever Disney is calling it now) canon of Star Wars.
I found in it Tennessee at a used book store (thank you McKay's!) and gave it a read.
Overall, it was an entertaining book, but in the end it had too much going on and thematically it didn't work.
I will fully admit that I have not read the book that introduces Callista, so I had that going against her.
Finally, the attempt by Daala and Pellaeon to reunite the Empire could have been compelling, but Daala is one of the worst additions to the canon.
I feel like Darksaber gets a very, very bad rap.
I've heard nothing but bad things about the book since I was made aware of it, so naturally, I kept waiting for it to get terrible.
Sure, the whole premise of the Darksaber is a little goofy, but Star Wars is inherently goofy!
I think that he consistently tells good stories with some weirdness in the execution, which is where the negativity surrounding his Star Wars work comes from.
But if you just want a fun Star Wars story that doesn't take itself too seriously, check it out!
Luke Skywalker and Han Solo return to desert planet Tatooine so Callista can regain the Force and her link and love for Luke. Trio join Leia, Chewbacca, Artoo, Threepio, and new knights. Durga Hutt, galaxy warlord, rebuilds Death Star superweapon as Darksaber. Lovely Admiral Daala and Pellaeon, second to Thrawn[who is dead], marshal Imperial forces against Jedi. Admrial Dalla is commanding the imperial forces, they have over 100 star destroyers and even 1 super star destroyer. SPOILER ALERT CRIX MADINE GETS SHOT AND KILLED BY DURGA AND DORSKE 81 DIES TO.
I genuinely think Kevin j Anderson is a good writer. He gave us two great characters: kyp durron and admiral daala, I just don’t think he knows what to do with the main three. At least in this book, their storylines were a mess. What even was the point of that stupid expedition to Hoth? Yikes. That was the worst part of the book. Most of every thing else was just ok, but I did enjoy seeing Durga again and the darksaber exploding was absolutely hilarious. Only read this if you liked the Jedi academy trilogy.
To be honest, I couldn't get through this one. It was a rehash of the Jedi Academy trilogy with the small addition of Callista. Its like the previous author really wanted her character to be a major part of the series and this author wanted everything set back to the way he had it. It makes me suspect his other books, which I thought I might check out, might be the same formula over and over - like Dean Koontz.
Darksaber is a good, deep story that takes place shortly after the Empire fell, but yet the Imperial holdouts are still trying to reestablish their hold over the galaxy. At the same time, the Hutt Cartel attempts to rule as they develop their own super weapon. Without getting into spoiler territory, this book succeeds in capturing the themes and characters. Great story!
A good addition to the Star Wars Expanded Universe that describes the fate of some of the iconic characters in this Universe. Unfortunately, the novel has a number of inconsistencies, as well as lacks the "epic battle" finale. To me the conclusion was somewhat below expectations created at the beginning of the novel.
Although some parts were fun, others were annoying and hard to read.The characters didn't feel like star wars, and the action wasn't written well.Read It if you want, but if you're looking for a good star wars book, read something else.
Better than Anderson's other SW old EU novels, but the plot is very messy and there isn't a lot of focus. His writing of female characters has improved. Bridging the bookends of Hambly's Calista trilogy, the prose is definitely many steps down.
It was entertaining, I'll give it that. But the author tried to do way to much, weaving in new characters and iconic ones in a tale that had too many threads. Basically, pulp fiction at its best (or worst).
It was a bit slow in the start but get past the first 100 pages and it will get better. in the end i couldnt put it down! It might be because of the very many different povs... it got a bit confusing sometimes, ultimateltly a very good book and very worth the time! :D
It was a bit slow in the start but get past the first 100 pages and it will get better. in the end i couldn´t put it down! It might be because of the very many different pov´s... it got a bit confusing sometimes, ultimateltly a very good book and very worth the time! :D
Not a fan of this one, though it was quite informative on the Luke/Callista relationship front. If you like space battles, it's got some decent ones, as well. As usual, the Jedi Academy ended up on fire. I resent that Crix Madine got murdered by a slug. That's all.
I enjoyed most of this book, any of the scenes with leia or wedge or kyp etc but can’t stand Callista. Just something about the scenes with her that I don’t like.
