https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26077476-murder-of-a-lady
Normally, I dislike reading books out of series order, but this was actually far more about the plot than the characters and so I did not find it difficult that I not read any previous mysteries by the author.First published in 1931, this novel is set in the Scottish Highlands where Dr Hailey is staying with his friend, Colonel John MacCallien.
One evening they receive a visitor to inform them that Mary Gregor, sister of the laird, has been murdered at Duchlan Castle.
Great start, interesting finish, fabulous characters, but oh my didn't this drag on forever...Also, the Scottish nostalgia theme was a wee bitty much.
3.5 starsThe thing I enjoy most about locked-room mysteries is, of course, waiting for the solution to materialize.
Yet not all action takes place within the confines of a single locked room -- two other equally puzzling murders happen right under everyone's noses with no suspect in sight.
So here you've got a bonus: a locked-room mystery and an impossible-crime story.
While the locked-room/impossible-crime components will probably be enough to please any vintage-mystery reader, I always go right to the human element in crime novels, and the dynamics at work in this household are perfect for examining what's in the minds of the people who live there.
3.5 stars This is a Golden Age mystery set in Scotland.
I think the author must have published other books with the protagonist, Dr. Hailey, an amateur detective..
This is a classical locked door mystery.
Still it creates the atmosphere of the times and the Scottish Higlands.
It was interesting to read the customs.
Not so interesting was the attitude towards women.
Of course, that was a sign of the times.
I was shocked to read the attitude about the Irish.
That was a surprise.Still, it's a pleasant Golden Age mystery just not one of the best.
It seemed to be an impossible crime.Mary Gregor was murdered in her own bedroom, at Duchlan castle in the Highlands of Scotland.
Dr. Eustace Hailey, amateur, but very experienced detective, is called to assist in the investigation of the murder of Mary Gregor, the elderly sister of the laird of Duchlan.
It was a brutal murder made even worse by the fact Miss Gregor had a reputation for charity and good works.
So how did the killer get to her?Dr. Hailey also becomes suspicious of the constant praises regarding Mary Gregor.
Hailey believes the murders are linked to that long ago incident that left the awful scar on Mary Gregor's chest - he just has to prove it.
I found this book to be delightful and the ending made me laugh out loud with glee.
(view spoiler)[Specifically, I thought for the longest time that Duchlan had finally gotten fed up and murdered his horrible sister.
Then, towards the end, I started to suspect that possibly Eoghan's mother wasn't actually dead, but was horribly disfigured and had been living in a hovel on the loch somewhere plotting her revenge.
I was totally astonished by the THIRD murder, and by the fourth, I was dying to get to the end!
Overall, this ended up being one of my favorite of the BLCC reissues.
Written in the 1930s (so yes there were comments about a woman's way of thinking that made me a bit angry) by a Glasgow-born physician who was prolific in writing, not only mysteries of which locked rooms were a speciality, but biographies and other books on science, medicine, history and politics.
In reality, there are four murders but only one is in a locked room — that of an old woman who everyone believed to be a saint but in her gentle supposed kind words, she had a way of twisting everything to her own wishes.
A British Library Crime Classic.A Locked Room Mystery.Why didn't this one get a 5?Sometimes a reader just doesn't connect with a book as well as one would expect.
The reason I gave it a three is because it was a locked room mystery and while working out the mystery, the mystery solver in this case works through each of the main characters presenting how they would do it if they were the guilty party, all feasible theories.
Read it and see if you don't think it's coming.3 for theories in a locked room mystery and for realistic atmosphere of a superstitious household
An atomospheric seat of the edge read with strong victorian characters. It truly kept me towards the edge eager to find out out the who-dunnit mystery. Alas ! It left me a little dissapointed with the unfurling of the murderer toward the end. It could have tied the loose ends more carefully with the plot beginning to thicken brilliantly throughtout the narrative. I loved the book for the lucid free flowing narrative and a faulty yet a maverick detective. The book held my interest up till the end and definately had some interesting take on the methods of detection.
A locked-room mystery...Amateur detective, Dr Eustace Hailey, is visiting a friend in Mid-Argyll in the Scottish Highlands, when a murder is committed in nearby Duchlan Castle, home of the laird, Hamish Gregor.
There is an interesting, short introduction from Martin Edwards, giving a little background information on the author, and setting the book into its place in the history of crime fiction.Although the focus is largely on the locked-room puzzle of how the crime could have been done, there's some pretty good characterisation along the way.
However, there was a very small clue left behind but it seemed to make no sense whatsoever.Inspector Dundas is called in to investigate and initially he learns from family and staff that Miss Gregor was a kind and charitable woman.
Fortunately by then Dr Hailey was on the scene and he continued the investigation along with another officer called to the castle in Inspector Barley.A further death occurs, which mystifies everyone, and Hailey and Barley repeatedly interview the host of characters that populated the castle.
“Murder of a lady” by Anthony Wynne is one of the finest murder mysteries I read this year.
Murder mystery is a genre out of my comfort zone and I started to explore this genre this year.
A murder is committed in the Duchlan castle.
The person murdered is Miss Mary Gregor, sister of the Laird of Duchlan.
We keep guessing and the end is appalling.I for one am really bad at guessing the ends of murder mysteries and this one kept me on the edge of my seat.This book is a whirlwind.
I am definitely exploring more of Anthony Wynne’s works now!
Murder mystery set in the Scottish Highlands. Features an amateur detective, dr Hailey, who is (of course) cleverer than all the police. the plot is extremely melodramatic, and the characters quite unbelievable. One of the policemen in particular is such an absurd caricature I thought he was going to turn out to be an imposter. The identity of the murderer is not difficult to guess. This one apparently has never until now been reprinted, and it is not hard to see why.
I looked forward to a classic crime who dun it but found it a bit of a slog. Partly the language was of its time as its attitude towards women. There were so many accusations that the last section of the book was heavier going than the beginning and a not very plausible solution.
However, their quick statement rings a bell in the mind of Dr. Hailey.Dr. Hailey’s way of working is totally different but soon he has to forget about this case as Inspector Dundas is now investigating the case.Though Dr. Hailey was away from the case he witnessed many incidents.On the other side, no one is able to give any clue about the murderer and at this time many people believed that the sea creature has done this.Slowly and steadily, the mystery opens up like the onion layer.
I am going to read more books by this author.Mystery and crime fiction lovers do not miss this book!
It’s one of those where you can’t really regret the murder victim, and though the psychology of it all is well-observed, the family struggles weren’t all that appealing to me.Still, it does the mystery well and evokes a good sense of atmosphere, and it was a pretty entertaining read even if I didn’t exactly root for the characters — and I finished it in just about no time.
I don’t know if I’d try another by the same author, but all the same, it filled the time pleasantly enough.
Right at the outset we have a grisly murder in a classic locked room--no way in, no way out--and no murder weapon in evidence. In the course of the novel there are two more murders; not in a locked room, but still very puzzling. Of course, all is revealed and explained (somewhat absurdly) in the end. Taking up the space in between is a dreadfully dull tale of the Scottish family involved in these events. Very little of it pertains to the explaining the actual murders. My advice? Read the first chapter, possibly the second, and then the last.
It was occasionally difficult to determine who was in action, because there were two doctors that were frequently together, and yet it would say only "the doctor."Dr. Hailey spent a lot of time discussing particulars of the case with the various suspects.
Yet Dr. Hailey admired him?The entire family was unlikable, particularly the father and aunt.
Let's not even talk about how his mother died.In the end, I suspected the murderer's identity but could not guess the method....probably because it was also absurd and unbelievable.
This is the first I've read in the series, and probably the last.
Murder of a Lady, re-issued by British Library Crime Classics is a Scottish locked room mystery first published in 1931, it was the twelfth novel by Anthony Wynne to feature his amateur sleuth and physician Eustace Hailey.
Anthony Wynne was a new name to me, but he was obviously very prolific, and apparently quite well known for his locked room mysteries.The setting is Duchlan Castle in the Scottish Highlands, where the body of Mary Gregor the elder sister of the laird has been found locked in her own bedroom.
Amateur sleuth Dr Hailey is asked to assist the police after the body of the laird's sister is found in a locked room at a forbidding Highland castle; no weapon can be found, and a fish scale is the only clue.
The way both the police and the amateur sleuth analyse cases against various suspects creates a lot of tension, and the dynamics reminded me somewhat of the Poirot novels.
My only real criticism is that the solution, when it came, felt very rushed.
But that's a fairly small criticism, and overall this is a pretty good book.
The Laird's sister is found dead in a locked room with no apparent way in or out for the murderer.
As the police and Dr Hailey - an amateur sleuth of some repute - struggle to work out how the murderer could have escaped unseen another murder is committed and a young woman is rescued from drowning.This is an intriguing story with a great many undercurrents and tensions between the occupants of the castle, most of whom seem to have been scared of the murdered woman.
My first time read of author, Anthony Wynne.
I enjoyed the setting and the old style language and sayings.
Murders do well to take place in a gloomy old castle in the highlands of Scotland.
Wynne creates murdered victims whereas you don't grieve their loss too much.
The first a mean, old lady, whereas by the end you wonder how she made it that long.
Perhaps, even more than the mystery itself, I enjoy the setting and the characters from a time and space where I could image the them.
I'd read another of Wynne's mysteries.
Well written but deeply melodramatic and overwrought; steeped in prejudices against the Irish and Scottish as well. Honestly, the mystery is about two chapters (and an unsatisfactory two chapters at that) and the rest is a whole bunch of pale brows, hand wringing, and gross apologetics for emotional and physical abuse within families. A hard pass.I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
I found this book to be a bit of an odd read. It was like the author had taken a handful of characters from a gothic tragedy and a handful of characters from a campy comedy and dropped them into the middle of a standard locked room mystery novel. If it had been all of one or the other or even if the characters had been blended together a bit better I think I would have enjoyed it a lot more
This is a very long mystery written in the Golden Age of mysteries,(the 1930's) and read because of my mystery book group. I never suspected the murderer and a lot of murders occur in addition to the lady.Not my favorite book from this time period. It was an OK read but not fantastic and also very repetitive.Not recommended
Agatha Christie mysteries are panto, this is farce. About as ridiculous except the setting is somehow even more contrived. The glass eye falling out of the protagonist's eye socket doesn't get any funnier the 10th time it happens.
Most of the British Library Crime Classics that I have read were pretty entertaining, but this is about the dullest book I've ever read. It's a locked room mystery, and I mainly wanted to find out how it was done, but in the end it wasn't worth it.
Very wonderful novel, beautiful locked room by a known writer (when Carr was at beginning).
Very enjoyable read! Solid locked room puzzle with ingenius solution!
