https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10915.Salem_Falls
I found it during a random book store browse and thought it would be a good way to introduce my Mom to graphic novels; second, I read a recent article by Stephen King that was talking about the merits of some of our most popular novelists, praising both Rowling and Picoult while damning Stephanie Meyer (raise a cheer!) and Patterson.
This is one of Jodi Picoult's best novels and one of my favourites. Perception is reality in this chilling tale of how one man can be condemned not once, but twice. It is a compelling and thought-provoking read. The author deals with the controversial subject of the novel with perfection, providing plenty of unexpected twists and turns along the way. The characters are appealing, believable and well-developed. I fell in love with the characters of Addie and Jack. Salem Falls is an incredibly well-written novel which will keep you gripped from beginning to end.A well deserved five stars!
It is set in Salem Falls, the quintessential American small town, a place where nothing much happens and where people move to because of its low crime rate.
It is a safe place to bring up a family.However, the residents are in for a shock with the arrival of Jack St Bride, a man with a past.
When the twists came, they weren’t so much surprising as confirming the suspicions I already had about what was likely to happen.
Wow I was totally enthralled around page 180.
I was hooked solid at that point.
This book is engrossing.
I am trying to get through a big box of books from my grandmother which included Jodi Picoult, Danielle Steel, and Nora Robert's books and I am so addicted this these authors right now.
I usually read mostly sci-fi/fantasies but am glad I'm reading these.
It has been a good change for a bit.
Overall, a profound story of injustice, lies, love, and small town life.
The cast of characters are a wide variety of lovable, obnoxious, vulnerable, eccentric, etc.
So interesting!
I wasted most of this weekend reading Salem Falls, the story of Jack, a high school history teacher who tries to start his life again after being wrongly accused of sexual assault, only to have the whole thing happen again in the new town.
For example, Jack's love interest Addie had a daughter who died some time in the past.
It might not seem like that big a deal, but it mattered to me, because it was the only way for me to gauge how old Addie was, since I knew that she was twenty-seven when her daughter died (or was she?).
Furthermore, while the story kept me reading, it felt like literary McDonalds.
I go into one of her books expecting a certain amount of cheap romance and schmaltzy cliches, but I also expect both a real twist in the plot and a thought-provoking analysis on a current issue, but this one didn't really deliver.Quick synopsis: the protagonist, having just come out of 8 months in jail for a statutory rape charge, shows up in a small town, and falls in love with the owner of the local diner.
I didn't like the graphic sex or the bad language.
I didn't like the choppy style of jumping from one point of view to another without a transition.
Although the author apparently wanted a sensational surprise at the ending it was totally predictable.
I was only surprised by the revelation of who the guilty party was in the unreported rape of one of the main characters.
The guilty party should have taken responsibility by turning himself in to the law and accepting the punishment he deserved.
That was the surprised that everyone the innocent as well as the guilty somehow avoided the consequences of their actions.
This time, it was about an innocent teacher who was accused of sexual misconducts with a female student and had gotten out of prison for serving time on that.
He moved into a new town, and unfortunately soon, everyone knew of his past and the accusations started up again.
With thanks to the devotion and faith of his new girlfriend, the truth began to unravel, bringing everything out in the open, including the very first girl whose accusation started it all.
A powerful book - makes you think and realize the power of lies and how they can really DESTROY innocent people and lives.
Sure......Initially, I was a little sceptical at the blending of these two things - a story about a wrongfully accused high school teacher who, having left prison and gone to a small town, again gets charged with rape and a group of teenage girls who practice magik.
But, Picoult was able to work these two concepts into a story, and a good one at that, that is about much more than witches and rape - it's about identity and finding one's self, about love and acceptance, and about how people should not be judged by their pasts because the truth is not always there on the surface.
When the daughter of a local wealthy business owner accuses Jack of rape, the townspeople immediately assume he is guilty, but Jack is determined to not once again take the fall for something he claims he did not do.
Witchcraft was portrayed as something that is more or less harmless and is a simple connecting of oneself with nature (even though the characters keep referring to gods and goddesses).• The 'g-d' word is used a lot in this book from just about every character.(view spoiler)[• When Jack and Addie are in the graveyard looking at Addie's daughter's headstone, it reads with the dates 1979 - 1989.
Salem Falls is easily one of my favorite Jodi Picoult book - one part romance, one part courtroom thriller, two parts social commentary, to quote The Dallas Morning News.
If you wanted to run in the courtyard, you had yo earn the privilege.
202-203}Picoult originally started out rewriting The Crucible {Arthur Miller}, but instead wrote a novel that highlights how situations like the Salem Witch Trials can and do happen in modern days.
As with most Picoult books, Salem Falls immediately catches your attention and holds it until the very end.
Also, I didn't like it.*beware: here there be major spoilers*I may have gotten some minor details wrong and left some stuff out, but this is basically what happens: Jack, a sensitve drifter with a past, wanders into a New England town.
makes Addie fall in love with him.Then the word gets out that Jack is a convicted sex offender.
Jack gets drunk at a local bar with Addie's lush of a father.
Some information about the girl's naked witchery comes out, and the fact they were high comes as well.Addie decides to visit Catherine, the first girl who accused Jack of rape.
Among the contemporary writers, I also read recently 'Salem falls' by Jodi Picoult.
I find Picoult has done a great job here, portraying a realistic story, in a way that is a balanced mix of good and bad, where everything does NOT turn out predictably.Another great writer I’ve appreciated is Tony Morrison.
It is so hard for me not to completely immerse myself in Jodi Picoult's books and ignore the passing of time. I read this in one day--couldn't put it down. I love the way she develops characters to the point that I feel their pain.
I read this some time ago but remember thoroughly enjoying this, in fact it is probably my favourite by the author!
It starts off as a slowly progressing story about a man, Jack, who has a past he clearly wishes to leave behind him.
But as with any story and its hidden secrets they are sure to find themselves unraveled, leaving the characters to piece back their lives as best as they can.
But for Jack, his past comes back to haunt him in a very big way and innocence is something he finds himself fighting to prove again.This book surprised me on multiple levels.
And while the reader might be able to suspect the ending it was very well disguised and proved to be a well rounded and profoundly written book.
I enjoy Jodi Picoult books, yes, but this one is not her finest.
It seemed like she was trying really hard to write another "Jodi Picoult book," but not paying attention to the way the story unrolled or the characters or their motivations.
Part of the reason this book irritated me, I think, was that I had just finished reading Alice Sebold's  Lucky , which was a heartrendingly real account of a rape and its aftermath, and in this book, a rape is treated as a sensationalistic plot point.
I enjoy Picoult's books because they deal with difficult and complex issues, but this book just seemed preposterous.
I think that's why it took me a lot longer to read this one than some of Picoult's others.I was mostly bothered by the fact that Picoult perpetuated the idea of blaming the victim.
Regardless of whether or not she was telling the truth, the fact that they raked her name through the mud is the reason why actual rape victims don't come forward.
I didn't like how everyone in town seemed to disregard the fact that Jack's first sexual assualt conviction had nothing to do with a violent rape.
I was really bothered by Amos' character (for obvious reason when you've read the whole book), but also by Charlie's character as well.
Anyone else a little tired of books about rape ending up with the poor, handsome white boy being innocent?
To be accused twice of sexual assault and be innocent of both is a little beyond the realms of believability as well, especially when a flashback to Jack's past revealed him to be quite the predator/condoner of sexual assault in his college years.
I just felt a little bit sickened that that's how she chose to end the novel with no explanation like...
I said after my last Jodi Picoult read - Small Great Things - that I was getting a bit sick of the ‘Picoult Formula’ and would have taken a loong break from her books if I didn’t already have Salem Falls waiting to be read.
This is my sixth Jodi Picoult within the last 1.5 years or so ( and now Salem Falls) and there are still a few books by her that I would like to one day read (Lone Wolf, Plain Truth and The Tenth Circle, specifically), but I know that if I am to have any chance of enjoying them then I will have to wait at  a year or two.
But like I've mentioned in some reviews/my general status update: I HAVE A TON OF REVIEWS TO WRITE TODAY BECAUSE I'M A READING MANIAC/ROBOT AND READ A TON OF BOOKS THIS WEEK!Salem Falls was sooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo good.
Whoever you are, you are the real MVP (this weekend)!I loved everything about this book, especially Jack and Addie!!!
While reading, Jodi just shoves you with really good twists which made me (I mean will make you?) want more.
I felt like I deserved more because the last part of the book was just kind of okay.
It hooked me immediately, so I bought it.Once upon a time (June 2008) Jodi Picoult's "nineteen minutes" was the first book I had read for fun in several months.
So Jodi Picoult has a special place in my heart, although I haven't loved ALL her books and I don't really read her anymore.
The situation gets decidedly out of hand when one of highschool girls claims Jack raped her.I liked Jack from the start, figured he'd been set up.
Maybe I should start to read Jodi Picoult again after all.
I have two words to discribe this novel, contrived and convoluted.
From the very beginning this novel is ludicrous.
The characters are so unbelievable you just don't care about their individual stories or the "big" picture they are all involved in either.
A teacher wrongly convicted of a sex crime ends up in a town called Salem Falls with teenaged witches plotting against him just because they can?
Ya know yes teenagers seem to make up the biggest growing section of pagan religions including wicca and other witchcraft sects but unless you actually know anything about the craft it's best to leave that subject to people who do.
Although, a lot of Picoult's books make me mad.
I was just plain mad and my anger remained throughout the book.Salem Falls talks about the horrible repercussions of false rape accusations and how they could honestly ruin someone's life.
Talking about subjects like this is always difficult no matter what you say, you step on someone's toes or end up completely offending someone when that wasn't your intent at all.
We need to talk about things like this.
We need to talk about things that makes uncomfortable because what this book talks about-false rape accusations- happens in real life.
Way to paint a teenage sexual abuse survivor as an evil, pathologically-lying temptress, and a guy with shit boundaries as an oh-so-sad victim of scary girl’s’ false accusations. Absolute shit.
Richtig stimmig waren diese Elemente nicht, daher fand ich es nicht nur unglaubwürdig sondern auch unpassend, wenn 4 Mädchen einen Schlaganfallpatienten von einem auf den anderen Tag gesund hexen.
Diese Szene hat mich verwirrt und keinen rechten Sinn ergeben.Das Liebesgeplänkel zwischen Addie und Jack fand ich zwar nicht wahnsinnig nervig, aber etwas halbherzig und teilweise auch kitschig umgesetzt.
Es hat mich etwas gelangweilt und schlichtweg nicht interessiert.Ab der zweiten Hälfte, sobald Jack angeklagt wird und die Beweisführung und Gerichtsverhandlung beginnt, war ich dann gepackt.
On the surface, Salem Falls is the story of a modern-day witchhunt in the form of a rape trial, but it's really the backstories of the characters that make the book what it is.
From the beginning, it is fairly obvious how the rape trial will end.
Your opinions of the characters will change throughout the book.
It is something hinted at throughout the book - certain passages give you a bit of an "off" feeling but you shrug it off.
It changes the tone of these passages and the motivations of certain characters completely.
Why are Picoult's books so hit and miss. Nineteen Minutes and Plain Truth are both amazing but I haven't LOVED another one of her books since. It's so frustrating.
When the worst happens and Jack is accused of rape a second time, Addie initially has some doubts, wondering if she could have been wrong about him.
Jack sees beneath all that and gets to the heart of the matter, helping Addie to finally put her demons to rest, and in the process, he also helps her father who has a rather sordid history with alcohol.As I mentioned before, Salem Falls has an extremely varied character palette and the reader gets to experience the story from many different angles.
Apie Jodi Picoult girdėjau daug gerų dalykų, tad bibliotekoje pamačiusi jos knygas daug negalvojau ir išsirinkau tą, kurios pavadinimas labiausiai patiko.
Ir pataikiau: knyga nenusivyliau.Džekas, paleistas iš kalėjimo, kuriame praleido aštuonis mėnesius už mokinės išprievartavimą, atkeliauja į Salem Folsą.
Bandymas susikurti naują gyvenimą nueina perniek, nes neilgai trukus, mūsų pagrindinis herojus VĖL apkaltinamas paauglės išprievartavimu.
Džekas kaltę neigia, tik ar patikės juo kas?Knyga tikrai verčia pąmastyti apie žodžio galią.
Skaitydama suvokiau kiek mažai reikia norint sugriauti kažkam gyvenimą.
Versdama puslapius troškau tik vieno, kad Ada, Džeko mylimoji, įsiklausytų į savo širdį ir priimtų teisingą sprendimą.
