https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/244269.The_House_on_East_88th_Street
Surely I have a little gaping Lyle hole because of it.
Lyle is so sweet-natured and likable, he'll quickly work his way into your heart and home, just like he did to the Primm Family, that fateful day when they moved into the house on East 88th Street.Ages: 4 - 8Cleanliness: mentions a man's pipe.**Like my reviews?
These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't.
I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it!
Visit my website: The Book Radar.
My first time reading this classic picture book about a family who is rich af and a crocodile lives in their bathtub and it's all an amazing fantasy. The art is simple, but detailed. Nicely chosen colors. Lyle's reveal is pretty subtle and amazing. Holding it all together is an interesting story about family and belonging.
Stellar. One of the best picture books ever written by one of the best children's authors ever.
Ah, this book. So casual yet you cannot help emitting emotional noises of positivity at it perfectness. Directions: Read when you feel most in need of comfort.
Ages 5-8.This is the story of Lyle the Crocodile, who lives in a bathtub in the house on East 88th Street.
The illustrations are largely black and white with only accents of color on most pages.
For example, one page of Lyle doing tricks with a ball is colored only in green, black, and white.
The vocabulary is fairly simple, though some things will need to be explained to today's children who will not understand the concept of a telephone operator.
This is only evident on a few pages, as most of the story is about Lyle.
The House on East 88th street is really a story about Lyle the crocodile.
Nothing too fancy here, a typical story I could have come up with and so slightly disappointing.
A new family moves into a house and finds a croc in their bathtub.
Nothing too exciting and the pictures were all in the same color tones, and so banal, it was even noticed by and commented on by my 5 yr old.
He found the book okay and kind of cute, while my 3 yr old twins repeated some of the words, and occasionally looked up to see pics of Lyle.
You've heard the rumors of crocodiles and alligators living in the sewers of New York City. You've heard the stories of the marvelous old brownstone with a horrific past. And yet they are so desirable, so charming, that people keep buying them, even the ones with dubious paths. That is the set up to The House on East 88th Street by Bernard Waber.http://pussreboots.com/blog/2018/comm...
After a lifetime of enjoying Lyle, Lyle Crocodile books, I stumbled across this unknown (to me) Lyle book in the library. It was so much fun to read the story of how Lyle and the Primms first met. Overall, the book is just as engaging and fun as the others in the series.
I've been reading a lot of children's books because, well, I have children. And it's rare that I want to go on and on in a review about one of them, but I LOVED this book. Why didn't I discover it as a child? I certainly read enough then, and somehow, this book eluded me. From the watercolor illustrations, to the big, classic house setting, to the surprise houseguest, I JUST LOVED THIS ONE. It appealed to the inner child in this 35 year old body, and I was just smitten with the story. Absolutely lovely.
I love this book. It is simple a classic.
A family bought a house and while moving in they discovered an alligator in the bathtub. That alligator entertained them with the hope that they will let him stay.
I believe this is the beginning of the Lyle the Crocodile books. Very cute.
I just came across this well-loved book from my childhood, and had memories flood back. I loved Lyle the Crocodile, and wished he would come live in my bathtub!!
4.5 stars
I wanna say about the "splish splash," or something like that.
Another classic I missed in my own childhood.
Then I overcompensated and ending up getting two copies for the girls.
I know, crazy book behavior.
Anyway, I kinda liked it.
There's something weirdly appealing about these mid-century early-readers.
There were a lot of books about kids having weird non-animal-like animal pals back then.
Danny and the Dinosaur, Sammy the Seal, The Cat in the Hat, and no doubt many more.Anyway, it's fun to read it as an adult just to flash on what life was supposedly like then, the mom having friends over for luncheon, that sort of thing.
Why, why, WHY do I love Lyle Crocodile so much?
I had "Lyle Lyle Crococdile" as a child (and my childhood book is the one my kids have) and so when I found "The House on East 88th Street" at a yard sale or book sale or something, I pounced on it as much for myself as for my kids.
It's totally dated and 70s and I LOVE IT.
There's an element of offbeat humor that cracks me up.
I think Bernard Waber had a dry sense of humor.
Maybe if I hadn't loved Lyle as a child, I wouldn't love it now, but.....I adore that crazy crocodile.
I really loved this book about this crocodile! It was such a sweet book about a family who didn't think they needed anything else until they were handed something special. It made me think about maybe we are suppose to look at the crocodile and think about a child. Maybe at first you don't think you need anything else in your family and than bam all you've never knew you wanted is right there. Love is a powerful thing and this book encompasses that.
This book ties with Sunday Morning as my favorite book from my childhood. I remember reading/being read to about Lyle the Crocodile and absolutely falling in love with the story, the family, and Lyle himself. I've laughed at the activities Lyle gets into and cried when he either gets in trouble or bad things happen to him. I also remember there being an animated movie about Lyle and I would watch that endlessly. Definitely a book I want to revisit!
3.75 Stars  From the Author would brought us the awesomeness of "Ira Sleeps Over" we have this book.There is something about this book that I love even though I don't love the pictures (they work I just don't love) and the story is fun...but....I have a deep rooted love for Lyle, I don't know why!I think everyone should have a crocodile in their house that cooks, cleans, makes his bed does tricks etc.Lyle...what a cool crocodile!
How did I not know about this book until just recently? The things you find on the shelf after a library renovation (and possibly remains to be the only good thing about it). I instantly loved Lyle when I turned the page and there he was looking out from the upstairs bath with HUGE friendly eyes. I loved him even more when I heard of his peculiar and rather fancy diet of exclusively Turkish caviar.
I just read the obituary for author Waber--but the delights of his classic live on. This was one of the major books of my just-starting-school years: the tale of the crocodile found in the bathtub (Lyle, for those poor souls who haven't been introduced) fully earns a place right beside "Where the Wild Things Are."
I had no idea there was a book before Lyle, Lyle Crocodile! What a cute story and a sweet beginning to a favorite crocodile. Probably the cutest one I've ever seen drawn (aside from the "Want to eat a child" crocodile).Could work in a storytime if the crowd can sit still for a slightly longer book.
A family moves into the house on 88th Street only to discover a crocodile in the bathtub. After their initial alarm, they discover Lyle (the crocodile) can do tricks. He becomes part of the family and eventually famous. His real owner comes for him, but returns Lyle when he doesn't perform well for him.
I have enjoyed the Lyle the Crocodile books twice - in my childhood and when I read them aloud to my children. Since I had an older brother named Lyle, and knew no one else by that name, when I was young I believed these books were named after him and that made them especially endearing to me.
Lyle is found in the Primm`s bathtub and finds a home amongst the house on 88th street. Hector P. Valenti leaves a note telling about Lyle. Mrs.Primm teaches Lyle to break his Turkish Caviler habit and Lyle happily lives with the Primms.
Lyle is found in the Primm`s bathtub and finds a home amongst the house on 88th street. Hector P. Valenti leaves a note telling about Lyle. Mrs.Primm teaches Lyle to break his Turkish Caviler habit and Lyle happily lives with the Primms.
a beautiful story about a crocidile who has a finely tuned palate and a very extraordinary life. I enjoyed it as a child because of the ornate details, and how the illustrations capture New York City.
This was such a great book. I heard of Bernard Waber through an exhibit at the National Museum of American Jewish History and I'm glad I went. Waber was a great writer and makes the characters come alive. This book also teaches great lessons in civility, love, and what family really is.
i loved this book when i was little. It was my favorite book and i still love it.
The first in the series in which we meet Lyle the Crocodile. Bring the Turkish Caviar and celebrate a classic in children's literature/picture books.
