https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/822630.Time_Cat
Summary: Gareth's definitely not an ordinary cat.
For one thing, he can talk.For another, he's got the power to travel through time- Anywhere, any time, any country, any century, Gareth tells Jason.
And in the wink of a very special cat's eye, they're off.
Full of fun, excitement, and a good dose of history, here's a fantastic tale that grabs the imagination and takes it far and wide, on the adventure of not one but nine amazing lifetimes.Conclusion: it was a pretty good ending.The good guys are: Gareth, (the time cat) Jason, My review:It was a AWESOME book!
Anyone who adores cats and likes magic will love this book.
I like cats.I like time travel stories.I like kiddie entertainment.So, you'd probably expect I'd like this book......and I did!
Okay I liked the premise but not the execution. They just seem to be jumping around to different times and countries without any real direction. Reads more like a series of short stories.
This was what I would consider a bunch of short stories, and while they were entertaining I'm super disappointed because it would have been so easy to connect them. It seems almost offensively lazy on the authors behalf lol
There was very little world building to this episodic book.
I wanted to know why the cat took his boy to these different times, but it seemed random, like the author just thought they were cool and different places to explore.
The episodes were also bland.
He then has a positive relationship with cats and becomes a better person.
The the boy and cat peace out and move on to the next random time and place.
At best this would be 3 stars, but I don't want to spend the time finishing it.
In Time Cat, the reader follows a boy and his cat as they travel through time to experience many monumental moments in history.
It is also historically acurate, and does a great job of making these historical moments come to life for young readers.
To me, the most memorable section followed a young Da Vinci in 1445 Italy.
The boy and his cat inspire young Da Vinci to try his hand at painting, and they move to their next destination in time knowing that they helped Da Vinci to discover the artist he was meant to become.All in all- great read.
But if she were reading it on her own, I'm sure she would have missed many of the historical references -- St. Patrick and the snakes, for example.
Granted, my daughter's only eight, but I think even twelve- or thirteen-year-olds, for whom the book is really written, would miss a lot of the references.
I'm sure my sister and I both did, when we read it years ago.The story is no less enjoyable for that, but I do think Alexander could have more fully explained the context of some of the periods into which Gareth and Jason travel.
A nice, light romp through several historical vignettes from the perspective of cats in history.
It's not as enjoyable as the The Book of Three series or the overlooked gem The Illyrian Adventure, but it's also quite possibly easier to enjoy for a slightly younger audience than those.The story is of a boy who discovers that instead of having nine lives, cats can go to nine different times and places in history.
The book has a clearly educational angle to these visits, but the characters are still enjoyable and the vignettes have enough plot to be engaging.
I think it is a very good book for young children. Some books can bring something to all ages but this one is meant for children. The writer blends historical facts with an adventure story.
Jason, a young boy around the age of nine, discovers that his cat can speak and time travel through simple conversation; he seems completely unfazed by this new development.
To be honest, our two time travellers seem like an adorable couple.
:3 i feel like gareth should touch Jason's face more often.
They could have their own sitcom showing their suburban life in which gareth is a successful businessman/ cat and jason is a stay at home mom.
Also hello to jason and gareth, i hope that this has been a very informational review.
It's a book about a kid and his talking, time-traveling cat.
They visit different historical eras (Ancient Egypt, Feudal Japan, etc) and...not really solve problems?
Just kind of visit, meet some people, get semi-involved in cat-centric situations, and then take off?
It's all kind of low-stakes, when things get hot they just move on to the next era.
The portraits of the different historical cultures aren't outright problematic, but felt slightly dated in places (dated like 1960s, not dated like 900 AD.).
I was fine with the author not explaining the mechanism through which all cats can apparently time-travel, I was more hung up on how the cat speaks English.
Frustrated and angry, he says “I wish I had nine lives.” And to his surprise, Gareth says “I do too.”This is the start of nine magical adventures for Jason and Gareth that take them from Ancient Egypt to America just before the Revolution.What I liked best about this book is that it’s very suspenseful.
I really cared about these characters because the writing made me feel like I was in the book traveling through time with them.
At times, the descriptions were so clear I felt like I could reach out and touch Gareth’s glossy black fur!You should read this book if you like magic, cats and time travel.
Essentially nine fables wrapped in a thin frame tale. But when there are both cats and time travel involved, how could it not be fun?Here's the first paragraph, to give you an idea of the Lloyd Alexander style:"Gareth was a black cat with orange eyes. Sometimes, when he hunched his shoulders and put down his ears, he looked like an owl. When he stretched, he looked like a trickle of oil or a pair of black silk pajamas. When he sat on a window ledge, his eyes half-shut and his tail curled around him, he looked like a secret."
I had heard that I would enjoy Lloyd Alexander and, when I asked for his books, I mistakenly assumed that he wrote one long series... As a result, I ended up with this book, which is great for young readers. It walks you through different periods and famous people/locations (even if the descriptions are a bit unvaried and sterotypical). As an adult reader, it left something to be desired.
Each individual part of history is broken-up into its own section with the name of the location where the chapter is taking place and then the date that the reader is being taken into.
Furthermore each section predominantly is comprised of two short chapters thus giving the young reader with lots of nice stopping spots if they need a break from their reading or are called away for whatever reason.
All in all this is definitely a wonderful read and one that I would recommend to those who either like cats, history and/or just needs a great adventurous book to carry them away.
All of these settings have the connection of cats and they differ a lot.
This book gives a wide-range overview of history of different countries with lots of visual descriptions.My thoughts: I used visualization for my strategy to visualize all the different settings throughout the book.
I would recommend this book to people who are interested in either cats or history or both, because Time Cat helps the reader really see what it was like in such variety of countries in variety of time, all somewhat related to cats.
A reread of something I enjoyed as a kid. My sister spotted this one at a sale and grabbed it for me as she does most books that are fantasy, cat, or child related anymore. I was happy to see this again as it's probably been 20 years(?) since I read it. I'm going to be keeping it on my self for my children, especially since we have a black cat of our own and I love seeing the historical lessons woven in.
A charming journey through time with a cat for a tour guide. It's a fairly fun and lighthearted look at several moments in history. The moments themselves are not terribly connected, but have similar themes running throughout. I'd suggest it to any kid interested in history or cats for that matter.
Alexander's first children's book. The writing was good, but I felt the premise was weak - Gareth the cat says that he didn't see much sense in time travelling as a tourist, then proceeds to do just that.The Prydain Chronicles by the same author are much better.
A great series of adventures but we were disappointed by the ending.
I liked this book, it's a good book for children. I wish I had read this book when I was younger.
You think a cat has nine lives, but this story explains a cat has nine visits to any place or time period. Britain, Eygpt, etc. Cute stories.
As part of his cat's time travel magic, Jason is immediately dressed to match the period of wherever they visit.
These visits are more about the time period, the people, and whatever it is that Jason and Gareth (the cat) need to help or to teach those they meet - usually with a focus on cats.This is the book that started it all for Lloyd Alexander and children's literature!
I highly recommend this for Lloyd Alexander fans, anyone who likes to read time travel stories or historical fiction, and all cat people!I added two quotes from this book to my favorite quotes here on Goodreads.
Whether they really happened that way doesn’t matter.” Gareth, The Time Cat, Lloyd AlexanderThis is an unfair statement seeing as I can recall, Yggdrasil the world tree of the Norse, the legend of Romulus and Remus and the events leading to the founding of Rome, and the Greek hero Achilles and his heel.
The Helvetii were written down in history as invaders but mainly they were women and children, whilst the warriors are thought to have totaled around half of the Roman’s army.
Another thing that irks me about this quote is that in the next part of the book Lloyd Alexander does just what the above quote criticises, he puts snakes in Ireland.
The cat reveals that he can visit nine different lives--any time, any country--and he can and will be happy to take Jason with him.
Cats don't like being shouted at."Neter-Khet brightened a little.
"That might be it.""Even so," Jason said, "when you weren't shouting, you'd think they'd have come around again.""Oh, they did," said Neter-Khet.
"No cat in the world will do that!""But I'm Pharaoh," Neter-Khet said.
"I'm supposed to give orders.""That doesn't mean anything to a cat," said Jason.
Besides, they were my cats, weren't they?""In a way they were," Jason said, "and in a way they weren't.
When he feels the time is right, he takes Jason on a journey that leads them from Ancient Egypt to the American civil war where they get tangled up in tricky situations and befriend more than just one other cat.
It's certainly not a bad book or story - it's just that it had so much promise but ultimately turned out to be neither here nor there.
A book that combines cats and time travel sounded promising enough.
And while the cat theme was one of the reasons I wanted to read this - sometimes it almost annoyed me.
First page: "Gareth was a black cat with orange eyes.
He belonged to a boy named jason, who loved him and believed Gareth could do anything in the world.
It happened this way."Turns out that Gareth doesn't have nine lives, but he can visit nine lives.
They visit Egypt 2700 BC, Rome & Britain 55 BC, Ireland 411 AD, Japan 998 AD, Italy 1468, Peru 1555, the Isle of Man 1588, Germany 1600, & America 1775.
And I like that Jason learns something from each encounter, something that helps him grow as a person.
I only wish there were more Gareth books.
Another thing every single chapter seems to focus on is the awesomeness of cats, which I actually thought was pretty funny as if a cat was leading a time travel adventure, that would absolutely be the focus.Egypt, Rome, Japan and Ireland all make appearances in this book, plus a few more, so this story serves as a great gateway to quite a few different branches of history.
They go to ancient Egypt, Japan and even meeting Leonardo DiVinCi. and more!
On their way through time, they meet a woman who does witchcraft.
She teaches the characters to watch out for trouble and be smart about where they travel and who they talk to.POV: 1st PersonMain Character: Cat, Jason, Witchcraft WomanClassroom Uses / Summary: I would definitely use this science fiction book in my classroom.
I would use the story to talk about Ancient Egypt, Japan, Leonardo DiVinci, etc.
I would use the story to talk about animal friendships, witchcraft, science fiction stories, etc.Lexile Level : 660
Lloyd Alexander has always been one of my favorite authors - his Taran Wanderer series were the first chapter books that I read on my own.
He was an amazing and much loved cat who I still miss.I'm not sure how I missed this one, but since I'm reading books published in my birth year and this is one of those it made the list.
Alexander obviously loved cats.
This is a series of nine stories set in different historical times where cats made the difference.
The illustrations by Bill Sokol are whimsical and fun, the stories are great, and there's a cat.
