https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33512.One_Thousand_White_Women
While I found many reasons to come to this conclusion, the biggest giveaways were your obsession with penis size and the fact that your signature was followed by an AOL e-mail address.Sincerely,Disgruntled ReaderOK, that was a bit harsh and if for some reason Mr. Fergus is reading this review, I want to say to him: I didn't completely dislike "One Thousand White Women: The Journals of May Dodd," and I give you credit for trying to adopt the viewpoint of not just a woman, but a woman from more than a century ago.
Is your book riddled with women being raped?Author: As a matter of fact, yes.Publisher: This is great!
The protagonist gets raped for several years in a mental institution, then decides to participate in the Brides for Indians program, and is excited and not at all concerned about sleeping with other men along the way.
We need more stories that tell women to suck up rape.Author: I couldn’t agree more.Publisher: Do you use the word “perforce” at least 10 times throughout the book?Author: Oh!
All covered.Publisher: WE NEED TO GET THIS BOOK TO THE MASSES!Dear author, have you ever met a woman?
I had enough when our FICTIONAL Mary turned very red in the face.
GIFT OFFER: If anyone here on Goodreads -in the United States - wants to read this book - I'm happy to mail you my copy.
It was sent to me by St. Martin's Press....but since I just wasn't really connecting with the writing & storytelling of this book - somebody else might.
I'm happy to cover the postage - and send it to another reader who wants to give this book a better chance than I did.
Thanks for all that you do to support authors and readers!!!
I like to think that I'm catching up on some of the history I missed as the same time as enjoying a good read.
I like journals and memoirs.
And I jump at the chance to see history from the perspective of those who are usually written out of the history books.
So I was quite enthusiastic when I heard about this novel which is written in the form of the journal of a nineteenth-century Yankee woman living among the Cheyenne.But it's not well written.
I don't usually bother to say much about books I didn't like, but this one annoys me because it could have been so much better.
Yes, the voice of Ms. Dodd, our heroine, protagonist, would be feminist (well sort of pseudo feminist) - does sound more 20th Century and less like a believable 19th Century even 'modern' woman but honestly, it kind of made the book more readable to me.
The way it's constructed, this book would have been excruciating if our heroine pondered in her diary speaking like a languid Victorian bore.In addition, since the plot centers around an outlandish concept - One Thousand (19th Century) White Women would 'volunteer' i.e. live such miserable suffering yet comparatively privileged lives - that they would run to live amongst Native Americans - is kind of preposterous.
My problem with this book is essentially that I did not ever buy the voice in which it is told - this problem has two tiers: First, it is supposedly a 19th-century journal and the author tries to convey the 19th-century-ness by frequent use of vocabulary like "perforce", however what marks an actual primary source from a specific time period is not merely vocabulary but the nature of observation.
I simply could never forget that I was reading a 21st-century person's somewhat inexpert attempt at what a 19th-century person would sound like in a personal journal and what they'd choose to include.
After Grant made a horrible fool of himself by being a white guy, Little Wolf was like, "Look, we're matrilineal, so why not just let us have some white ladies to marry and procreate with?
Not to spoil anything, but "One Thousand White Women" has the sort of ending that makes you think the author had a "Dances with Wolves" type of movie in mind.
But these ladies barely fit a twenty-first century setting, let alone a story that takes place right after the end of the Civil War. Fergus is a rape-happy kind of author, which is problematic in itself, particularly when that rape is so repeatedly written by a male.
What follows is a breathtaking adventure of May Dodd, her brief but passionate romance with the gallant Army Captain John Bourke, her marriage to the great Chief Little Wolf and her conflict of being caught between not only two worlds but loving two men and living two lives.What I liked about this story, was May Dodd was an incredible woman living in her time and the author did a splendid job writing from the perspective of a woman with such credibility told through her journals.There was enough historical backdrop/details without it becoming "over-detailed" so that it took away from the story/characters.
Not only is Fergus' novel, overly sentimental, historically inaccurate, misogynistic, it is racist towards Native Americans.
Chapters will often begin with, "So much has happened since my last entry, I don't know where to begin...." This is an easy tool to push time forward, and overdone in poorly written novels.
Fergus' novel was chosen for the Doubleday Book Club, which means that publishers have no idea what women read.
It's true that women are the main demographic in Book Clubs, but that doesn't mean that we only want to read women "survival stories," (let alone one poorly written by a man.)
The premise begins with a re-telling of the proposed "Brides for Indians" pact that went on in 1854, when a whole host of Cheyenne Native Americans came into DC and asked for 1000 white women to take back to the prairie.
Also problematic is Fergus' idea of what thoughts went through women's heads in the mid-1800s.
However, when one of them has the idea to hit the sweat lodge with the rest of the Native American men, they all pull out the cotton towel they packed for just this sort of instance.
As I read on, it became clear that while the author did his history homework, and has an obvious acquaintance with American topography, he had great difficulty getting into the mind of a woman, let alone a 19th century woman!
The caricatures he presents belong in a comedy, and while this novel has its humorous moments, it is ultimately a dramatic portrayal of the hardships of frontier life, and the clash between the spiritual but doomed Native Americans and the white man's Manifest Destiny.
This character is being spoon fed to 21st century women readers.
I have to agree with several of the previous reviewers...
GREAT premise (exchange of 1,000 white women for peace - an offer actually made, but declined by Grant) and interesting insight into Native American culture.
However, I had some of the same gripes as previous reviewers.
I just had a really hard time getting into the book because of these things.
I also didn't really like the narrator, probably because she was completely unbelievable and sounded very much like a man trying to write as a woman in modern day.
If I were a member of the Cheyenne tribe featured in this book, my Indian name would be Couldn't-Finish-The-Book.
If Jim Fergus were a member of the tribe, his Indian name would be Has-Never-Spoken-To-A-Woman-For-Any-Amount-Of-Time because...
Oh, and the Indian name of this book would be Fail-Order-Brides.I will start off by saying that I've never been a fan of historical fiction or books written as journals, but the premise of this book piqued my interest.
My iPod says I'm 40% in and I tried tried tried, but I really couldn't finish.
From Booklist, by Grace Fill An American western with a most unusual twist, this is an imaginative fictional account of the participation of May Dodd and others in the controversial "Brides for Indians" program, a clandestine U.S. government^-sponsored program intended to instruct "savages" in the ways of civilization and to assimilate the Indians into white culture through the offspring of these unions.
May's personal journals, loaded with humor and intelligent reflection, describe the adventures of some very colorful white brides (including one black one), their marriages to Cheyenne warriors, and the natural abundance of life on the prairie before the final press of the white man's civilization.
dragged a bit near the end but was never boring (part of that may have been me having an idea or two of what was happening and dreading it too)The way May's journal entries are written, it feels like you have gone back in time and catching a glimpse of a forgotten past.
She was a woman ahead of her time in one sense but I don't see how she couldn't have forseen how her family would react.
to explain fully even in spoiler tags would be a long rant so I will say no more here.
So I liked the entire book, especially the main character.
And I even had a little trouble figuring out who the characters were in the final pages (lineage).
But what a well written book.
I had never read a book about Indians, and while I am sure it only scratched the surface of their customs and way of life, it did present a lot of information about them.
In the end though, it was ironic that the main character was unable to identify with either the Indians (due to their hideous act at the end) or the Whites (due to THEIR hideous act at the end).
Loved the book...it is in journal form and tells of how the government asked the American Indians to trade one thousand white women for horses...their main reason was to "civilize" the Indians and make them aware of and become familiar with the white people's way of life.Very interesting book...topic not as bad as it sounds.

I want to burn the piece of garbage.The plot promised me strong and independent women, I got a bunch of clichés :-the shehulk swiss with fucking bowling balls for tits who's a lil dumb and has an accent so thicc it's written like zat because get it ?
She's pretty much a speshul snowflakes, without the YA magic touch™.She's the ultimate fantasy of the author, and it's so painful to read because it's so clear he thinks she's the perfect woman and want to bang her.
WHAT WAS THE POINT I’M SO FUCKING ANGRYBut do you want to know what actually made me stop reading this piece of shit ?
The main issue is how flawed the writing of the characters is.
For one thing, he seems to confuse people having accents for people having personalities.
And he WRITES OUT the accents, which is supremely annoying.
(He also sporadically writes things in French and then doesn't translate them.) On top of that, there's every cliche in the book: the pedophile priest, the hypocritical evangelical, the magical negro.
He's like a shadowy figure with no personality or impact on the book whatsoever.
But no, it was just pathetic terrible and trashy.It's rounded up to 2 stars and is given 1.5 stars simply because it doesn't quite reach the unreadable monstrosity of the likes of The Private Papers of Eastern Jewel.

It is an interesting topic-it's based on a true bit of history, when the Native Americans and the U.S. were trying to integrate, and the Native Americans requested 1000 of American white women to help the process and have their children.
You know, the racist southern belle, the large, loud woman, the drunk prostitute....the characters were, although very developed, very unbelievable, in my opinion.
My main problem of the book is that it was written by a man, and narrated by a woman.
I think it nearly impossible for a man to write from a woman's view.
First, this book took me 3 months to read, which is nearly unheard of, especially for ~300 pages.
I kept wanting to just stop reading, but I wanted to finish it so I could say I finished it.The basic story of the book I think is intriguing and could be the basis for a really good book if done correctly.
I just think the author missed terribly here.
He attempts to give her flaws, but makes her appear too "good" or "important" for a character that is supposed to be flawed.
I wouldn't really recommend this book at all...
In the novel, the Cheyenne are promised 1000 white brides, and May Dodd, resident of an insane asylum, is one of the women selected.
As May and the other women who journeyed with her settle into their new lives, the U.S. government decides not to honor their bargain but to instead force these Cheyenne to a reservation.
When violence strikes the Cheyenne in the form of the U.S. Army, many of the brides and their new families come to a tragic end.
But what actually happened doesn't at all resemble what the author puts forth.As the white man encroached on the land of the native people, treaty after treaty was made and broken.
A delegation led by Cheyenne leader, Little Wolf met with then President Grant to try to once again come to an understanding that would allow the native people to maintain their land and lifestyle.
The author puts forth that Little Wolf asked for one thousand white women in exchange for a corresponding number of horses.
While the author didn't do a very good job with actual events and the women in the book were not at all representative of the era, it was an engaging story.
A fascinating look at life among the Cheyenne Indians in 1874 from the perspective of a white woman who is part of a US govt. program to assimilate the natives. The landscape is perfectly described and family and communal life is portrayed in great detail in a supposed journal with accompanying letters and bibliography. It appears to be well researched, but my problem with this kind of historical fiction is always wondering just how much IS true (were the Indians really THAT brutal?) The too-good-to-be-true characters were also a distraction.
I really found this book fascinating and loved how the author took one kernel of truth and then created a whole fictional book about what might have happened if the government had agreed to the proposal.
Right off the bat I loved the character of May Dodd and enjoyed her thoughtful narrations.
While other reviewers have stated that they could tell this was written by a man, I personally never once thought while reading that it didn't sound like a woman's voice.
A well written and lively "alter-verse" (if you will) Historical Fiction re-telling of the proposed "Brides for Indians" pact of September 1874, when the heads of the Cheyenne tribes, including Chief Little Wolf (the Sweet Medicine Chief) and others, journeyed to Washington D.C. with a proposal for President Ulysses S.
(The Cheyenne are matrilineal) Indians and whites would then begin to truly assimilate and learn to live together peacefully.While a distinctly fictional account that is not truly representative of the original time-period this will take the reader into a facsimile of the period that may well lead them to want to know more - which is never a bad thing!
3.5 stars.In 1874 The Cheyenne Chief Little Wolf approached President Ulysses Grant with the proposal to trade 1000 white women for 1000 horses, an offer refused by the government.
The premise in Jim Fergus' book is that the government decided to secretly send these women.Initially I didn't like May, I found her behaviour very unlikely for the time, but as I read further I realized that to accept the offer and live the life she did, she would have to be someone that didn't tow the line.
This obsession eventually led him to the Tongue River Indian res of the Northern Cheyenne where he was granted access to May Dodd’s journals…which he published in their entirety in this book.The Prologue:  In 1874, Little Wolf, the great Cheyenne Sweet Medicine Chief, accompanied with a delegation of his tribesmen, journeyed to Washington to meet with President Ulysses S Grant.
Coming from one of the wealthiest families in Chicago, she was also a true Women’s Libber, a scandalous embarrassment to one of Chicago’s most prestigious families.That last is what got her incarcerated into the Insane Asylum...by her family...for the remainder of her life.Her journals read like a story.
