https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311322.The_Black_Moth
especially since he only confessed to protect the real cheater, his spineless younger brother - and is now a highwayman (cheating at cards with your noble friends somehow being far more shameful than highway robbery), though he doesn't rob old men or women who are on their own, and he gives most of his ill-gotten goods away to the poor.
When the Duke and Jack fall for the same lady, the lovely Diana, trouble compounds, with interest.This is Heyer's very first book, published in 1921 when she was only 19 years old.
Ahhhh, reading my sentimental favourite!This is the first of GH's novels I read in it's entirety. & wasn't I lucky starting with GH's first book, written when she was only seventeen. I still have my original copy, although the cover fell off on this reading!  According to Jane Aiken Hodge, GH said she had two hero types The Mark I hero, who is “The brusque, savage sort with a foul temper” (Vidal from Devils Cub, Max from the Grand Sophy)  The Mark II hero, who is “Suave, well-dressed, rich,
I have to say I do have a fondness for the sweet heroes & I like it that nice guys don't always finish last.Diana is also a different heroine – I loved the description of her beauty.
The villain is the titular character (I think Devil Belmanoir would have been a better title) and it is also the story of Jack's brother Richard & his troubled marriage.
& duh,it was only on this reading that I realised Andrew becomes Rupert in These Old Shades.If you have never read a Heyer,start with this one.
They're all idiots.Okay, here's the twist and my conundrum in rating this book.
A good part of this just reads as melodramatic Georgian period llama drama.
On the other hand, there are parts of this where the absurdity of it is evident--it's mocking the behavior in a Much Ado About Nothing kinda way.
Parts of it were 2 stars, a few sparkling moments of humor really shining to 4 stars, but plodding along just under 3 stars for most of it.
It really isn't 2 stars, but my rating is a generous farce-appreciating one, even if I didn't for large portions of it.
This is Georgette Heyer's first pancake.
She wrote it as a teen.
It's a cliche later silver fork novel with an adventure overlay, showing heavy influence of Orczy and Jeffrey Farnol in particular--but she seems to have discovered that she really liked writing the rakish villain.
Because, though this one has the proper ending, the villain is the best character, and she knows it .
so she rewrote it with the very same sort of villain, but makes him the hero, in These Old Shades.
She had also discovered humor and wit by then.
This one is really only worth reading as a curiosity, imo.
Oh novel, how do I object to thee?
Let me count the ways...1.
The title is a phrase that refers to the villian that is mentioned ONLY ONCE over the course of the novel.
And it has something to do with the way he dresses.
The villian is a jerk who tries to kidnap and ravish our poor heroine twice...
3. Our hero lets his slimy little weakling of a brother foist the blame of a crooked card game onto his shoulders...
4. The slimy little weakling of a brother is married to perhaps the most annoying woman ever.
Our heroine is...
I love Heyer but not this! I enjoyed the historical details, the fashion, etc. I think it's impressive that she wrote this at such a tender age. It was on target for 3 stars but I found the second half really quite tedious..
3.5What a lovely story!
I wanted to strangle a couple of characters too and hug and kiss others.
At one point it got a bit slow, but it didn't mess up the story.Don't expect to spend a lot of time with the protagonists, especially Diana.
She is lovely, though.
Jack Carstares appears a bit more, but mostly you follow around his weak younger brother, his infuriatingly selfish and stupid wife, her siblings and a couple of other characters.
Speaking of those, I loved Jack's friend O'Hara.I started this story hating some characters only to be forced to feel sorry for them.
But after you get the characters straight, this is a wonderful book.I totally fell in love with this hero, and yes he is a genuine hero, not just the main male character.
He is witty and humorous in his remarks and actions, even if he is a little too free with his kisses for my taste; but that makes sense so it must be forgiven him.The main female character is not a heroine in the strictest sense of the word, but she is true to the time and era of the story, and therefore I like her better than if she was a "heroine" in her own right.
"He drew Diana's attention from the first moment that he entered the Pump Room—a black moth amongst the gaily-hued butterflies."edited 4/23/18 to add info about swearingedited 4/24/18 to change my TBR planThe Black Moth (1921, Heinmann) by  Georgette Heyer, is a standalone adventure with a bit of romance set around 1751, during the Georgian period.
What I liked: *I feel smart every time I read one of Heyer's books and become acclimated to the language.
I think Heyer could have toned down the variations.*At least one person wore patches on the face, after the Georgian fashion.
This was a thoroughly enjoyable Heyer read worthy of four and a half stars!!
Richard Carstares, gets caught cheating at cards, allows his older brother John to take the blame, but ultimately becomes miserable in his circumstances.
But, she added a splash of color to the story and balanced out the good-hearted heroine, Diana Beauleigh.
Diana is beautiful and amiable, just the girl for John really, but she is not quite as spunky as some of Heyer's later creations.
Still, I have to give Diana credit for ignoring propriety and proposing to John.
On one hand, I want to lay into it and point out all the obvious flaws, but on the other hand I am reminded that this was Heyer's first novel at a very young age...so I'm going to argue both points!First hand: This book is rambling and ridiculous, the characters are all lords and ladies...or more like caricatures of lords and ladies, over exaggerated, unconvincing and a little embarrassing.There was no clear cut drive for the novel, it swapped between plots in a way that was too complex for Heyer's skills at that time.Our Hero kept on passing out, and our heroine was boring.There was no retribution for the 'Black Moth's' attempted rape...he should have been hanged and scandal be damned.
I love this author, I am ADDICTED to this genre, and am the biggest fan of the language used in the melodramas of the 18th and 19th century, so well done here.
One is for the stylistics of the prose, and one is for giving her kudos for a first novel.
And I usually deal well with this, since honestly, I do not put very great expectations on my romance novels.
The story and melodrama, even as formulaic as they were, could have been done so much better....
But, it was her first novel and she was only a teenager when she wrote it.
I gather this was the first novel Heyer published, but I only got to it after having read some of her later novels.
I liked The Black Moth, but it was not as accomplished as her later works -- first, it takes place in the 18th century rather than the 19th, and all of Heyer's books set in the 19th century are generally a little slower and written a little more ploddingly.
Second, the characters also feel more unformed than they do in later books like Frederica, The Grand Sophy, Cotillion, etc.
and the humor inherent in many of Heyer's books is missing here.
The one where Jack takes the blame when his brother cheats at cards, runs away to be a highwayman, and doesn't care much until he falls in love.Eh. It's a first book, and it shows. The relationships are all very tell-y, and the various conflicts don't hold up to serious scrutiny. The women are all children (the only difference among them being their spoiled-to-charming ratio). And what a very strange world where cheating at cards is enough to make you unfit for polite society forever, while kidnapping a woman (twice!) is a mere foible like wearing dirty boots to dinner!
I took a liking to Jack Carstares as soon as he was presented, and I actually thought him quite droll sometimes, especially the way he acted about his fancy and gorgeous clothes.
I liked the way Miles took a firm hand on Jack and didn't let him escape to France or wherever it was he wanted to run to.
:( The worst part of it all is that there are no other Heyer books available in that same library.
This was the first novel by Heyer, and also it had its share of problems, it read very well, showing the hand of the future master of the romance genre.The novel is set not during Regency – that period will be introduced into Heyer’s fiction later – but vaguely in the middle of the 18th century.
More often than not, the author concentrates not on Jack or Diana but either on the sardonic black-clad Duke or on Jack’s brother, weak but squirming from the pangs of conscience Richard.
After the card cheating incident, Jack spent some time in Europe, making his living as a fencing teacher.
That said however, I was so quickly wrapped up in the story of the honourable Earl who lies to protect his brother and do right by the woman they both want to marry, that I was more or less unaware of any abrupt cuts or shifts of POV.The Black Moth is Heyer’s first published novel, and on the whole, is an incredibly assured piece of work for a nineteen-year-old.
Six years previously the hero, Jack Carstares, Earl of Wyncham, was accused of cheating at cards and, having admitted his guilt to such a terrible breach of the code of honour, fled the country.
The Black Moth was Heyer’s first novel, and it does show, but it’s still pretty fun.
Despite Diana and Jack seeming like the main pair, the one the plot was working toward, I was more interested in the spoilt Lavinia and her husband Richard.
I don’t know enough about the period to know if Heyer leaned a bit too hard on that plot aspect: it feels like it, but of course, times have changed.Jack himself is fun: loyal, self-deprecating, quite capable of being kind or cutting.
It's the first book I've read by this author, and I understand it was the first novel she wrote, at a rather young age.
Overall the book seemed to lack substance but like a soap opera, you can't seem to give up on it.
And like a soap opera, the villain gets away with his crime, foiled though it might have been.
But, the writing was sharp and witty and I'll read more of Heyer as I'm sure her later novels are better.
I just cannot kick this habitual need to have a Georgette Heyer novel on my currently-reading shelf.
=) I love that her novels are full of the frippery and finery I'm accustomed to in a historical romance novel, but the plots always seem fresh and completely engaging.
This novel featured a disgraced brother who was actually taking the blame for his brother's misdeed and turned said disgrace into a career as a highwayman.
While the real villain of the story -- not the ne'er-do-well younger brother but a true evildoer -- attempted to kidnap the would-be love of his life.
The beauty he rescues, Diana Beauleigh, steals his heart and makes Jack wish he was free to marry her, but alas he cannot because of his dishonorable reputation.
But little does he know, his brother feels the exact same way…I have been enjoying Georgette Heyer’s novel for several years now and have come to love her colorful characters, witty dialogue, and invigorating plots.
What I loved most about The Black Moth was seeing that these Georgette Heyer trademarks were established and present in her very first published work!
I especially loved her “unmaidenly” conversation with Jack!In true Georgette Heyer fashion there are daring schemes, priceless misunderstandings, and brave rescues.
When his younger brother realizes that Jack is back, he is wracked with guilt, but as before his love for the spoiled Lavinia keeps him from revealing the truth.Meanwhile, the Duke of Andover (called Devil by friends and foes alike) has fallen for young Diana.
Nor, in fact, will Jack even reveal the Duke's real name to the woman he tried to ruin--he puts actual effort into keeping the Duke's true identity a secret.
Although Diana does not get nearly the amount of page time the menfolk do (and in fact, Lavinia and O'Hara's wife get about as much page time as she does), she's a good character.
I thought the ending was ridiculous though; the way she wrapped up the whole affair with Jack, Diana and the villain...really it was poorly done.
The whole book was good, very much dramatic and over-the-top and then the ending comes and she concludes it by kinda just making everybody stop whatever they're doing, and making them all go to dinner...It was like huh and the villain??
I personally really liked the villain, he was definitely one of my favourite characters.So if overall the characters were OK, how come I loved this novel so much?
For example, six years previous to the setting in which the story takes place, two brothers are involved in playing cards in which the younger brother cheats and the older brother nobly takes the blame, the consequence being that he is diseherited by his father (who is an Earl) and leaves the country with a disgraced name.
Yes, cheating at cards is certainly not something to be admired, but this "dark history" is the core theme throughout the entire book and is treated as such a big deal.
These character archetypes would be developed into flesh and blood people in later novels but in this first work, Miss Heyer had not yet developed her ability to create real people the reader can care about.
We're told that Jack and Diana fall in love but the actual falling in love is glossed over, perhaps because Miss Heyer had not yet been in love or perhaps because she was writing for her kid brother.
I would recommend this book to those who love an old-fashioned high drama adventure story or to those fans of Miss Heyer who wish to see how her style evolved.
My Twelfth Georgette Heyer There is a great adventure romance novel in this mess, but it's hard to find among such a rich tapestry of swashbuckling and ironically witty moments.
Pacing problems aside, there is a great deal to like in this book.Years ago, Jack took the blame when his younger brother Richard cheated at cards.
Meanwhile, Richard and his wife Lavinia have had a rocky relationship made even more difficult by Richard's decision to tell the truth.Aside from a good fashion sense and quick tongue, there was little to recommend Jack especially since he's dumb enough not the disclose the identity of the kidnapper the first time around.
The main couple and their boring romance takes back seat to endless paragraphs describing how dark and handsome the villain is, or how obnoxious (ahem, free spirited) his sister is.
It is interesting because you can see Heyer's style emerging and it demonstrates certain plot elements that appear in her later works, most notably These Old Shades and Devil's Cub. Dick and Lavinia's romance also foreshadows future couples, like The Convenient Marriage.
However, most of the characters are dreadful and the plot lacks the sparkling wit that makes Georgette Heyer so wonderful.Unless you really love Heyer, this isn't worth the time!
The book foreshadows her later book, These Old Shades, and is a solid first book for the young author she was. All the classic historical romance tropes are here without the bodice-ripping of our modern books. I adored stories of highwaymen and figures like the Scarecrow of Romney Marsh when I was young, and this reminded me of that youthful enthusiasm. Recommended for anyone who needs a little fun. Georgette Heyer has gotten me through many tough times. She is a blessing as an author.
So as these other readers commented on Austenesque Reviews how great they thought this author was, also, and in seeing that this book was offered for free, I jumped at the chance to read and judge for myself.
I did take note of recommendations by other reviews here.I did read that this was her first novel, written for a brother and that many other stories are much better.
Dick (and Jack) had been courting the same lady, Lavinia, thrown into their path by her older brother, our protagonist.
Ironically, not only does he tell her about his cheating, we learn that Tracy/The Duke of Andover/Belmanoir/The Black Moth/the brother also surmised such.
It is melodramatic and cheesy in parts, with characters being rather one-dimensionally good or bad, but it was just the ticket for my mood and circumstance and I enjoyed it very much!Fun, fast-paced, romantic and witty, with some wonderful characters - I think Jack Carstares may be one of my favorite Heyer heroes.
Lovely, interesting characters abound, like the wicked Duke; charming, honorable Miles, Jack's best friend; guilt-ridden Richard, the younger brother who mourns for the loss of his beloved older brother; exhausting Lavinia, Richard's wife; the delightful, strong Diana and her loving aunt, loyal servant Jim, and so many others.
