https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13927.Son_of_the_Shadows
I loved this second book in the series!
I actually listened to it double time on audio and followed along in the book.
BUT, I was so into the book I didn't mark down any excerpts.
Yes, there are bad things that happen but they always do in most fantasy books.
I'm no good at this explaining stuff.
Hmm...I really hope the rest of the books are as good as this one and the first one.
This is one I could read over and over!
And I need to add that I love the narrator!
They do an awesome job.Happy Reading!
“Don't you long for something different to happen, something so exciting and new it carries you along with it like a great tide, something that lets your life blaze and burn so the whole world can see it?”  Where do I start?How can I put into words the magnitude of Juliet Marillier's writing?How can I explain to someone who hasn't lived through her books that Son of the Shadows left me a sobbing mess,that there were scenes so emotionally brutal and devastating that it felt like my heart was ri
Together.The Sevenwaters family,Red and Sorcha's family believed that there would be no evil in the world they could not face together.And that is precisely the reason the evil forces tried to divide them,to wreak havoc and mistrust on a family that valued their bond more than anything else.Secrets and betrayals came to light,one by one,threading a web of isolation and anger.Liadan,Sorcha's dutiful daughter,the healer with the Sight,was caught in the middle of it.For it was her the Fair Folk had been waiting for generations to help fulfill an ancient prophecy.But Liadan was no mere tool.Nor was Bran,despite everyone's efforts to convince her otherwise.Warriors,druids,mercenaries,misguided girls,they were all woven in a pattern and Liadan held the key to either destruction or salvation.
Reviewed by: Rabid ReadsBR with my peeps at: Buddies Books and BaublesSpecifically:  Robin (Bridge Four) 3.5 starsSometimes when I finish a book I know exactly what I think about it, and the review practically writes itself. Other times . . . I finish, thinking that overall I liked the book, but . . . something remains . . . unresolved. And the more I dwell on it, the more issues emerge, until the something evolves into multiple identifiable problems.This is one of those times.That's not to say
It absolutely was.It just wasn't a good book for me.There are several reasons.I didn't particularly like either this generation from Sevenwaters or several of the other important new characters.Sorcha and Red, the MCs from the previous installment, now have three grown children: their eighteen-year-old firstborn Niamh, and sixteen-year-old twins Sean and Liadan.
Sean is the heir of Sevenwaters, Liadan has followed in her mother's footsteps as a healer and is the "heart" of Sevenwaters, and Niamh is the petulant beauty with a nasty mean streak.Does Niamh have understandable reasons for lashing out at others and placing most of her self-worth in her appearance?Yes. She does.
This is my favorite book of all time.
My copy is dog-eared, and I'm looking around for another one.
This was the book that set me off on my love for Juliet Marillier's books.
The simple elegance of the prose was the perfect voice for Liadan, the main character.
The love between Bran and Liadan spoke to me the first time I read it and has echoed deeper and deeper with every reading (of which there are many).
In my opinion, this is better than the other two because the characters all have a way of worming themselves into your heart.
The main heroine, a girl called Liadan (Sorcha's daughter), suffers from the severe "unique one" syndrome, experiencing "nameless feelings of ill; sudden bouts of shivering; cryptic warnings of the mind".
Liadan at first only complains about Niamh's flaws and incessantly compares herself with the older girl in a way that transforms all Niamh's qualities into vices, then her feelings of being superior culminate in betrayal (even though she never explicitly admits to being the main reason for the terrible events that unfold in the book), followed by an agreement to the unfair treatment Niamh was forced to suffer confessing that she "had scarce given her [sister] a moment's thought" since bidding her farewell.
I’ll admit that the nascence of this romance moved a little too quickly for me and I wasn’t able to form a solid bond with these two as a couple, but as the story wore on, they won me over and I can frankly admit that their love story is just as beautiful, moving, and powerful as that of Sorcha and Red. Furthermore, Bran is easily my favorite character in the tale, proving to be far more complex and tortured than I imagined and the build-up and eventual truth of his past definitely does not disappoint in the least.
Buddy read with the amazing Jessica ”I have believed, for a long time, that the Fair Folk guide our steps. That they work their great plans through us. But you are not in their scheme. Perhaps you hold some sort of key.”╰⊰✿Overall Feelings On Son of Shadows✿⊱╮ Just like Daughter of the Forest this takes us on a magical and epic journey over years. Liadan like her mother is a healer and as with all the children of Sevenwaters has a deep capacity for love. Once she finds it she will hold onto it f
The only thing that is certain is a new challenge has been set and new dangers await the children of Sevenwaters.Liadan is instantly likable, probably the most likable of all the three children Red and Sorcha had together.
The longing that Liadan felt for the man she knew she loved and I definitely felt that but I spent a lot of time waiting for him to come back so I was a little distracted from what was happening while I was waiting.
She looks exactly like her, she’s an herbal healer, she has a brother with whom she shares a special mind link and bond, she falls in love with the enemy of her family, she has the quiet strength of endurance and mental fortitude….
I really liked Daughter of the Forest, and there have definitely been repetitive series that I have loved anyway, but I got bored a few times in this one.
I was so looking forward to the scene where she finally gets to use these skills for real, in a big showdown of some sort preferably.
Then they share one night together and all of a sudden, it’s love.
En este caso el relevo de la historia lo cogen los descendientes de los personajes del primer libro, haciendo que la trama poco a poco vaya volviéndose más compleja.Algo que disfruto mucho en sus historias es el hecho de que nada es gratuito en ellas.
Todo tiene consecuencias y circunstancias, hasta los personajes secundarios que sabes que están para cometer una función concreta en la trama tienen su historia (y hacer que te importe la muerte o desgracias de un secundario es difícil de conseguir).Una de esas sagas que te atrapan desde la página uno y su magia no te suelta ni terminando el libro.
Although at first glance Sorcha from the first book should have been very much like her daughter Liadan, the main POV here, I rooted for Sorcha and I had a deep connection with her, while Liadan was distant and judgmental, making it really hard to even like her, let alone develop any attachment to her...
"...“Don't you long for something different to happen, something so exciting and new it carries you along with it like a great tide, something that lets your life blaze and burn so the whole world can see it?
An outstanding book that continues the story of the children of Sevenwaters, and another for my favourites shelf.The story of Sevenwaters continues with the children of Sorcha and Red. Whatever idyllic start Sevenwaters gives its children, they certainly are expected to shoulder more than their fair share of trial and difficulty as they grow up.Liadan demonstrates the same fortitude her mother displayed in Daughter of the Forest as she makes her way through a path of treachery and hurt in order to protect what she loves.
This book fulfilled every expectation I had, delivering an amazing and richly imagined tale told with Marillier's trademark excellence and style.
Nada melhor que pegar num livro e devorá-lo até ao fim como se não houvesse amanhã.Nada de grandes filosofias, nada de duplos sentidos, nada de descrições monótonas ou escrita complicada.
Nada aborrecido, tudo fantástico – e o que não é perdoa-se porque a história envolve e faz sonhar.Sonhar com ambientes de magia, florestas encantadas, criaturas do além, druidas, feiticeiras, maldições e encantamentos, amores avassaladores capazes de derrubar qualquer contrariedade e triunfar.A autora sabe o que faz, o livro prende desde a primeira página e vai ganhando ritmo até atingir velocidade de cruzeiro nos últimos capítulos.
Once I started reading it, I couldn't stop, and I finished the book in about fifteen hours with breaks in between.
The first book, Daughter of the Forest, was an emotional journey.
She is the heart of Sevenwaters, repeated several times verbatim in the book.
Women were much more susceptible to the whims of men, both in politics and the family unit.
I still enjoyed reading about Liadan and Bran, though their relationship was not as memorable as their predecessors’.
I found that this book read more like a historical romance novel but with more spirit, less bodice ripping, and much more of a gripping storyline.
This is also how she meets the Painted Man, the leader of the band known to be a cold and heartless killer.Despite it not being a direct sequel, it is still perhaps necessary to read Daughter of the Forest first before tackling Son of the Shadows.
However, nothing really develops in the grander scheme of things; we don’t get to see the great evil rear its ugly head even once in this novel, and I’m not sure if the Fair Folk’s prophecy progresses that much at all.For all that, Son of the Shadows was an enjoyable read, almost as much as Daughter of the Forest.
(It is not an overt fairy tale retelling like the first book was.) I waited a long time to read this after reading Daughter of the Forest because although the writing was beautiful and it was very well done, the overwhelming feelings that stuck with me were sadness and pain.
I'm really interested to see how the prophecy plays out with Liaden's choices - has she derailed everything, or was this what was supposed to happen all along?This is one of those books that I couldn’t stop reading.
It’s always hard for me to explain this gut reaction that I have to a book when I love it.
So in the end I can say that this is definitely an exciting novel that offers us the same brave dose of romance and emotion, but I think it is inferior to the first book of the series so I must rate it a little lower.Στο δεύτερο μέρος της σειράς αφήνουμε στην άκρη το παραμύθι για να βυθιστούμε περισσότερο στη σκληρή πραγματικότητα της ιστορικής περιόδου και της περιοχής που διαδραματίζεται Η ιστορία μας.
Οπότε στο τέλος μπορώ να πω ότι σίγουρα πρόκειται για ένα συναρπαστικό μυθιστόρημα που μας προσφέρει την ίδια γενναία δόση ρομαντισμού και συναισθήματος, πιστεύω, όμως, ότι είναι αρκετά υποδεέστερο από το πρώτο βιβλίο της σειράς ώστε να το βαθμολογήσω λίγο χαμηλότερα.
Inexplicably, Liadan falls in love with the infamous Painted Man and her life gets even more complicated - the Fair Folk, the family loyalties, the prophecy, and her heart are pulling her in different directions and it seems almost impossible for Liadan to hold on to everything that is dear to her.Son of the Shadows is a beautifully written novel, even though it spoke to me less than its predecessor.
If Daughter of the Forest is an epic tale of sacrifice and courage, this sequel is more of a historical romance, only it is a million times better than an average historical bodice-ripper - with complex and compelling characters, wonderful Irish lore, and beautiful scenes of love, bravery, loyalty, and death.Just like Sorcha, Liadan is a strong and admirable heroine.
Como o seu nascimento não estava previsto, é-lhe dito pelo seu tio, Conor, que ela pode vir a mudar o curso dos acontecimentos e a fazer a diferença.Rapidamente o mundo de Liadan é virado de pernas para o ar, quando a caminho de casa é capturada pelo bando do Homem Pintado sem que este tenha conhecimento.
Quando finalmente se cruzam, uma estranha dinâmica se forma entre eles e Liadan dá-lhe o nome de Bran, devido à forma como o seu corpo está tatuado em forma de corvo.Contra tudo o que estava previsto, uma ligação mais forte que a vida ou a morte surge entre os dois, mas como pode o Homem Pintado, um fora da lei, amar alguém quando vive constantemente em guerras contra os senhores de Sevenwaters?
Also, I have to mention, I love that in both Daughter of the Forest and Son of the Shadows there is a seemingly nameless character that is given a name by the one destined to love them.Once again I was drawn to love the family of Sevenwaters, Liadan and her siblings, but the highlight of this book for me was Bran’s tribe of Painted Men. The outcasts of every land with no past and no stories of their own who look only to take care of one another and guard those they may call friend if only they are given the chance.
The first book was based on one of the Grimm brothers' tales, but the second book caries on with the Sevenwaters family.Sorcha is old and she and Red have three children consisting of a boy named Sean and a girl named Liandan who are twins, and share a mind link like Sorcha and Finbar did in the first book, and Sorcha and Red have an older daughter named Niamh, who is beautiful and who lives life for the moment.The story circles around Liandan who has a great number of gifts, she is able to touch peoples' minds and comfort them, she is a healer like her mother, she is gifted and the fairy folk are watching her.Liandan falls in love with a painted man who is known as an assassin and whose skill is renowned.
Luckily, this book did not disappoint and I still absolutely adore the way Marillier weaves Irish / Celtic folklore into a historical setting (10th century Ireland).
I now can't wait to read the third book to see who will tell the next part of the story.As these books are adult they feature some difficult topics so I will say trigger warning for mentions of domestic violence.
Every time a character mentioned Alba (which is Gaelic for Scotland) I was so pleased!One thing I really loved was (view spoiler)[ reading about a character who had a baby.
Son of the Shadows follows on some years after the end of book one, and it was so delightful to meet some new characters as well as hear from the ones I fell in love with in the first book.
However, Marillier excels in writing heartfelt romance and she hit me right in the feels with this book.
For excellent writing, characters and plot, I'd highly recommend reading Daughter of the Forest and then Son of the Shadows!~~~~~Review also posted here.
This time, we follow Liadan, Sorcha's and Iubdan's (Hugh) daughter as the Fair folk meddle once again in the lives of the Sevenwaters clan.
Though not gorgeous like her older sister, Liadan has attracted the attention of Eamonn, the head of a neighbouring, important clan.
Sorcha points out to Liadan that Liadan seems to be outside of the roles and rules of the Fair Folk's endeavours, which may allow her to make her own choices.It's several years after the action of book 1, and the Britons are still a concern, with Liadan's male relatives forging alliances to build a large enough force to push the Britons out.
But there was one tale she would never tell, and that was her own.Liadan has grown up surrounded by the love of her family and the peace and safety of the forest of Sevenwaters.
And though the outlook is bleak, and the people around her may not be entirely what they seem, the light of hope still burns as does Liadan's formidable will to survive.To say that SON OF THE SHADOWS holds a special place in my heart is a bit of an understatement.
The main problem is that Marillier simply rehashes many of the main plot points from the first book: We have a young girl whose skill in healing brings her to the attention of an enemy of her people.
After spending time with this person, she falls in love with him and comes to realize that her people's enemy aren't savage barbarians after all.
Marillier simply took the skeleton of the first book and rewrote it.
Now, I have no problem with romance, but I feel like Marillier completely changed the focus of this series and that is a bit disingenuous.
I am so in love with this series. Why did I not know about this sooner?
Mais um livro excecional, inesquecível e intenso de Juliet Marillier :D :D ;D
(Also GO read the first book).This one follows Liadan, Sorcha and Red's daughter.
There was a very structured idea driving everything forward in the first book, that allowed all of the things that happened on the side to have so much more emotional impact.
I kind of felt like perhaps it would have been more interesting to follow Niamh, just because Liadan was too much like the narrator of the first book, but didn't live up to her.
Now I will proceed to tell you why I gave it three stars instead of five.Son of the Shadows didn’t flow well, and the characters were rather bland.
They read like reheated character ideas she probably had for the last book, but threw out and decided to use for the sequel.
That may be why this book felt a loooot like the last one: forbidden love, healer protagonist, protagonist living away from home, protagonist doctors sick man, protagonist is a young female, etc.Also, the Ciaran/Niamh love story was more interesting than the Liadan/Bran story.
Not really a YA book.But it was well written.
The world is simple, I think, in its essence. Life, death, love, hate. Desire, fulfillment. Magic.Juliet Marillier's writing is beautiful, but once again I thought the book could've been shorter without losing anything. Add to that my frustration with all of the (sometimes frankly idiotic) secret keeping, and I ended up liking this book a bit less than the first one.
