https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/494304.The_Rescuers
I remember seeing The Rescuers film en francais back when I was in the third grade, but it took me until now to read the book.
Yeah, I know what you're thinking, why am I reading a kids' book?
Well, when it comes to great stories, I think you can be any age to read them.
This one, a classic by Margery Sharp (she also wrote Something Light, another of my favorites), tells the story of a group of mice who decide to risk their lives in order to save a child.
It's a story similar to The Rats of NIMH or Felidae, one sort of dark but still with wonderful characters and a brilliant ending.
3.5 Pretty darn adorable. Knocked off one star for being rude about cats. ;)
Three stars for writing, four stars for plot, 500 stars for illustrations.
This book is very different from the Disney film of the same name which is hardly surprising.
In a nutshell, the plot is Bernard, Bianca and Norwegian mouse, Nils must rescue a Norwegian poet who is prisoner in The Black Castle.
"He was a poet so therefore..." That made me laugh.I had forgotten how much I love rotund, big-hearted Bernard.
If I had ever had more than one male pet mouse I would have named him Bernard.
(The only male mouse we ever had was a mistake.
We did, on the other hand, name a mouse after Bianca!)
It's probably my fault for not doing my research, but I was expecting a novel of high-speed chases through swamps and a teddy bear with a diamond hidden in its stomach. Instead I got a group of mice breaking into a castle (what year is it?) to rescue a Norwegian poet. Hmmm...On top of it, Sharp is clearly deep in her own little world, but she is either a terrible writer or on drugs, because much of the book is incomprehensible, especially at the beginning.The illustrations were cute.
Tämän viikon raivonnut keskustelu sukupuolineutraaleista ammattinimikkeistä sopii mainiosti tämän kirjan lukemisen viitekehykseksi. Iloisen ja viattoman viisikymmentäluvun kirjassa naisilla on mystisiä kodinhoitamis- ja pyykkäysvaistoja ja muutenkin tasa-arvo on ajanut kirjan kirjoittamista seuranneina vuosikymmeninä ohi oikealta vasemmalta ja vähän päältäkin. Toisaalta tarina on aika viehko ja herttaisesti kerrottu. Urheat hiiret lähtevät rohkeasutta vaativalle pelastusretkelle pelastaakseen norjalaisen runoilijan joka on heitetty karuimpaan tyrmään mitä maa päällään kantaa. Oikein söpöä. Kolme tähteä pois arvosanasta sovinismin ja luutuneiden aatteiden takia. ja koska kyseessä ei ole halpa disneyjäljitelmä, niin pyöristetään arvosana vielä ylöspäin neljään tähteen.
I'd put off reading this book despite owning it for a while, due entirely to my dislike of the inexplicably popular Disney film that was allegedly based on this story.
Imagine my surprise to find that it's a decent heist story featuring a group of mice attempting to break a Norwegian poet out of a high security (for the time) prison.
The mice are actually somewhat engaging characters, and the backdrop of what is essentially a mouse MI6 freeing the unjustly imprisoned is an interesting idea.
Moral of the story: Disney ruins everything, always read the book instead of watching their adaptions.
I thought that I had read this as a child, but none of it seemed familiar. The illustrations are fantastic, of course. The story is almost pure adventure... no world-building (so much doesn't make sense) and the characters are more superficial than I had expected. I won't bother to look for any sequels... but I do wonder if, maybe, it's one of those that I read all those years ago.
With the aid of the pantry mouse Bernard and the Norwegian sailor mouse Nils, Miss Bianca heads to the Black Castle to face dangers great and small in the name of their noble cause.My Disney source material readthrough has led me to The Rescuers, and it appears that while there are two movies based on these characters and several books in the series, none of them were adapted exactly into either of the films.
This story was simple but well fleshed-out, and the society of mice is amusing and actually makes sense (even though it never really says where they live or how they work internationally).
I like that Bianca's sheltered existence and wealth do not make her snobbish, even as she is sometimes baffled by the things she encounters outside her "porcelain pagoda." And I love that, rather than get distracted by the half-baked plot of rescuing a Norwegian prisoner (I never did figure out why this particular prisoner was worthy of rescue but not the others?), the book focuses instead on the relationships between the three very different mice -- Bernard, Bianca, and the course pirate, Nils, and the way they have to learn to live and work together in close quarters and under dangerous circumstances.
And the adults reading this along with a kid can get some enjoyment out of it too.Of the three rescuers, the first, Miss Bianca -- a very pampered pet mouse, depicted as upper-class and a "lady" -- is probably the most well-rounded.
the third rescuer, Bernard, is a working-class pantry mouse who is a little infatuated with Miss Bianca, and thus willing to put himself into danger.
Medals for everyone!There's definitely some class and gender stuff happening here, so that's something to be aware of before you give a kid this book, but other than that?
Margery Sharp kirjoitti Pelastuspartion seikkailuista peräti yhdeksän kirjaa, ja Disneykin teki hiirulaisten seikkailuista omat versionsa, mutta suomeksi näitä kirjoja on taidettu julkaista ainoastaan kaksi.
(Korjatkaa jos olen väärässä.)Kirja kuuluu lapsuuteni lukemistoon.
Lainausnumeroista kolme näyttää olevan omani, joten olen tätäkin kirjaa aika tiuhaan lukenut.Lapsille kirjoitettu tarina on viehättävä ja jännittävä.
Vankein Apu-yhdistys värvää kolme urheaa hiirtä pelastamaan Norjalaisen runoilijan pelottavasta Mustan linnan vankilasta.
Nyt aikuisena kirjaa uudestaan lukiessa juonessa huomaa monia aukkoja, esimerkiksi pelastuspuuhan motiivi jää vähän köykäiseksi, koska runoilijasta ei kerrota edes vangitsemisen syytä, eikä sitä onko hänet vangittu väärin perustein vai ei.
Tällaisena kirja sopii mainiosti ääneen luettavaksi.
Well, it was written in 1959 so I guess that explains the parts where Miss Bianca has "domestic instincts" (as all women do) enough to find the pantry, and can't possibly be left alone as all she's got is her charm, and it's totally acceptable to think that beautiful women shouldn't have to do anything but be beautiful, just sit there and be pampered and beautiful.
HOW NOVEL" she was completely confident in her own abilities and never apologized for being a lady.Other than that, this book is pretty charming and lovely.
Romancing the Stone--with mice!I've read this book many times over the years, starting as a second or third grader.
It is so much better than the Disney animated movie that was "based" on it.
I suspect it has languished because after the movie was made, people who hadn't read the book assumed that it must be as lackluster as the movie.
I would classify The Rescuers as adventure, but it is first-class storytelling on all fronts, fully succeeding in the aspects of drama, romance, and humor as well.
The illustrations by Garth Williams are an integral part of the reading experience.
As a big ole Disney fan, I picked this up because of how much I loved the film.It is much more subdued than the film but also more interesting in the way the mice work together and get around.It is very sweet and the story pootles along nicely.While I wouldn't put it up there with other children's classics like Black Beauty, it is an enjoyable and gentle read.
Revisiting an old favorite. A perfect book
I'm enjoying reading all of the Disney source material!
I've realized recently that I have read a lot of the source material for Disney movies, so now I'm making it an official project to complete.
I loved seeing Miss Bianca's character development in this.
She starts off as a pampered pet of an ambassador's son and never realized that other mice lived differently until she meets Bernard, a humble pantry mouse from the Prisoners' Aid Society asking her to play a small part in their plan to rescue a prisoner.
I enjoyed this a lot and will at least be reading one more of the series.
Another children’s book that I somehow missed! Thank goodness I found it now. So well written. Funny, exciting, dramatic. Bianca is clearly the model for later female heroines. Mrs. Pollifax immediately comes to mind. The illustrations by Garth Williams are especially delightful. Another reason to continue to read Margery Sharp books, both adult and juvenile literature.
This book was utterly charming. 4.5 Stars. It has a few moments that are dated gender-wise, but I don’t think they are bad enough to warrant true criticism from an otherwise adorable and very fun story.
This was an amazing children's novel! I loved the movie adaptation; however, just like any adaptation, it is not always the same. There are similar characters and plot line but filled with adventure with Miss Bianca and Bernard.The main plot is Miss Bianca, Bernard, and Nils (a Norwegian mouse) is asked by the Prisoner's Aid Society to rescue an imprisoned poet. Do they succeed or not? Find out!
Charming tale about three mice who are sent to rescue a prisoner from the black castle. Illustrations by Garth Williams who also drew for E.B. White's Stuart Little.
The Rescuers is a brilliant book, all about how mice go and save a Norwegian prisoner from the dreaded Black Castle. It is said throughout the world that mice are the prisoner's friend; they have a council called the Prisoner's Aid Society, and they go into tremendous efforts to cheer them up. But nobody, even a mouse, can cheer a prisoner from the Black Castle. But, as the chairwoman points out, they can rescue one. All the mice say that this is absolute nonsense; how could a tiny mouse (well,
The Rescuers is a brilliant book, all about how mice go and save a Norwegian prisoner from the dreaded Black Castle.
But nobody, even a mouse, can cheer a prisoner from the Black Castle.
Miss Bianca, after a reluctant row with him, soon decided to find someone; and she was on her way to see him, when she came across a Norwegian, and very brave, pirate mouse.
Now, Miss Bianca was hurriedly jotting down a particularly awful map of where the Prisoner's Aid Society was positioned, when Nils thought that she may as well come with him and show the way, instead of him mistaking a rosey hat for duck-and-goose-ponds.
In fact, the spirit of that class dynamic between Bernard and Bianca is what is carried over to the Disney films (perhaps with some more modern updates).There's some first rate British dry-humor here as well.
The seriousness with which the mice take the organization of the Prisoners Aid Society also makes for some good moments, like when Sharp relays meeting notes, relegating cat sympathies to 'minority opinion'.In short, if I come across another from this series, I will check it out, nursing some hope that the plots will improve a little.
Thanks to several wild coincidences, the rescue of a political prisoner is brought to an exciting finish.The young person I read this book with was bothered by the references to the mice having "hands" instead of paws, and whenever Madame Chairwoman was mentioned, she would sigh and say, "ChairMOUSE!
I prefer the book (I believe some of the elements of the cartoon were drawn from another Bianca book, but having not read the others, I don't know for sure).
We have our main characters, Bernard and Miss Bianca (also joined by Nils the Norwegian, who I found rather annoying).
Now this is the first of nine novels, so although the characters and the basic concept line up, the subject of the book is a rescue at the Black Castle.
I'm not quite sure if novels later in the series sit closer to the Disney movie.
I haven't been able to snag a copy of Miss Bianca from the library, but I will likely read it as I get closer to the The Rescuers Down Under ("Down Under" is an "original" work for Disney.
The plot is so interesting and funny, and the writing is just brilliant!Bernard must persuade Miss Bianca to help the Prisoner's Aid Society in finding a Norwegian mouse who will bravely rescue a Norwegian poet from the cold dungeons of the Black Castle.
Once she finds the courageous Nils, a seafaring Norwegian mouse, Miss Bianca is swept along in the adventure, and the three unlikely companions are tested to the limit of their abilities in the Black Castle.
No mouse has ever freed a prisoner before, but these clever mice are determined to save the poet!
Just the thought if animals being able to think on a human level makes me giddy! This is such a charming premise that little mice would rescue innocently incarcerated people almost brings me to tears of joy. How could you help yourself from loving this book.
But objectively, this is at least a 3.5-4 star book, particularly if you enjoy animal stories.
Fans of Redwall, Narnia, Varjak Paw, and the like would enjoy this, though the story of The Rescuers is far less complex than any of the examples I cited.
The rest of the plot borders on silly, with a large dollop of saccharine predictability.The characters are cute but too idealistic to have much depth.
The plot resolves itself far to simply, after bogging down to a near halt for nearly a third of the book.
It's hard not to love Disney's representation of this novel.
Bernard and Miss Bianca are absolutely adorable and Madame Medusa is an absolute RIOT.
With that fantastic representation in mind, this book was just alright.
Disney did a fantastic job of taking something with "good bones" and turning it into something far more engaging and interesting.
While I enjoyed the Mamelouk character and that exploration of Miss Bianca's cleverness, she was much more a damsel in distress in the book which I didn't particularly like (even though I know, at the time it was written, gender roles were different blah blah #dontcare).
Yes, the book is about mice (Miss Bianca, Nils, and Bernard) who are members of the Prisoner’s Aid Society.
They are sent off on a rescue mission, not to save a little girl and her teddy bear, but a Norwegian poet who is imprisoned in the dungeons on the dreaded Black Castle.
I think the only thing “childish” about the story is the main characters are talking mice.
Margery Sharp wrote a great story and I’m excited to read the others in the series.
Also, the illustrations by Garth Williams are wonderful.The only disappointment is that I really wanted to know why the poet was being held as a prisoner.
