https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6780439-dark-visions
I don't want to give it 3 stars because it had too many flaws.First of all: the main character, Kaitlyn: she raises the bar for all Mary Sues out there.
The funder of this little project turns out to be an evil mastermind who wants to use those kids for all kind of dark and illegal things (minds out of the gutter, now) but this all becomes clear pretty early on in the story.
How she missed that home run is beyond me.Side note: I know this makes me sound like a pervert but I think the idea of communicating with somebody on such a personal level is very appealing.
The pure enjoyment that I felt reading this was immense.-----------------------------------------------I read Dark Visions some time ago.
And time unquestionable did pass when I read Dark Visions.
I was unable to read another book until I got over living in the Dark Visions world.
Although Dark Visions lacked in complete originality, it made up with entertainment.
Gabriel and Rob were entirely distinct from each other.
Gabriel and Rob weren’t going insane and completely bonkers over Kaitlyn like many typical YA love interests, who are ridiculously obsessed with the heroine, so that was a plus.
Re-Read with Heather,  Inge and  Lynn..... July 15, 2014!I have these three books in one but they deserve their own reviews, I think, ergo: The Strange Power This is the series introduction -- du'h! -- and it sets us up with our MC, Kaitlyn. Kaitlyn is a witch, she sees things before they happen, and an outsider because she's different. And what's different is scary...Different is pretty rad! And yes, sometimes scary, as we learn. Kaitlyn is invited to attend a school for others like herself --
Whatever it is is pretty powerful though ;)This is the grabber story: it screams "come play here, it's fun...." The Possessed The second book in this series :)Now I could go on at length about my love for this book but I'm not going to do that.
Listen to This Song by The Proclaimers, if you want to understand how little we get love when we're actually in it!In this matter I forgive Kait, I forgive Rob and I forgive Gabriel.
Also, I am a fan of a person -- or character -- who understands, intrinsically, what they will and will not do for someone they love.
This book was a sure winner as I loved the Night World Series.Kaitlyn/Kait has psychic powers, she has precognitions and premonitions but she can only see them, and draw them, she can't stop them from happening as she can't control it.
Like her other books there is a journey, a discovery and a love triangle, not to mention a mystery to unravel.
All good things to make a book hard to put down!
The fight between loving the good or the evil, the choices.
It is a book more than anything of self discovery, especially for Kaitlyn.
L.J. Smith really has great imagination and excellent writing skills to back it up. If the Forbidden Game trilogy was about the Shadow World of dreams, this trilogy is about psychic abilities. Once again, L.J. assembles a cast of fascinating teenage characters who are written so well, you feel like you know them. They develop and grow throughout the books, and this is what I love so much about Smith's books. The story is fast-paced, entertaining, and captivating. I am very happy this trilogy is scheduled to be re-printed this September.
I never really liked those insta-love books (that doesn't happen in life.) Sorry Stephanie Meyer, I only read your books because of Jacob.
I didn't like Rob. Kaitlyn kind of had the insta-love thing going on with him.
So, I liked Gabriel cause he was all arrogant and distant, but he still had feelings for Kaitlyn.
And they didn't have the insta-love, she actually developed feelings for him throughout the book(s), so THANK YOU L.J. SMITH.
I loved how Kaitlyn would give her energy to Gabriel.
If so, and you try to friend me I will be forced to use my super spoon skills on you.
It's the only relationship in the book that really develops to a point that makes sense/is believable.
I'm pretty sure their only dialogue is saying I love you, multiple times....
I think later on in the book you're supposed to think she's torn between Rob and Gabriel, but her relationship with Rob was so unreal that I couldn't believe it to begin with.
Going with what I said above, I couldn't see how Kait could be in love with Rob when they barely exchanged any words.
Overall, the story left me entertained and I really would have liked it a lot if there was more dialogue/more of a believable relationship between the characters.
7/15/14Here's some big news: I love this series!
No, I never did a school project based on it, but that doesn't mean my love for it isn't valid.My Cast:Lewis.
He gets so little love.
(view spoiler)[I wish he'd ended up with Anna.
This blond model I just happened to have a picture of on my computer will do.Kaitlyn.
I like Kaitlyn.
She's bad, but "bad" in L.J. Smith land means "still pretty good."Gabriel!
If that scene with Gabriel and Kaitlyn doesn't move you, well, you are dead to me.
In a sheer suprise she finds herself being admitted into a institute specifically created to study and research those of her kind.
This storie's amazing and vivid twists entice the reader to remain reading in search of the answers to the ever impounding questions that make this book so interesting and quirky.I absolutely loved the free state of the characters, with their personalities moulding almost instantly into you, allowing you to fully read and enjoy the beautifully created novel.I loved this book and would recommend it to all of those who loved the thieves series by Ella West and also the House of Night series by P.C and Kristin Cast :))
The hate on Gaberial side was built upon jealousy and envy and Rob side because he thought the other guy was evil.
But seriously in the whole book Rob is supposed to be the goody-goody than why could he not show the same amount of compassion and tolerance towards Gaberial even when he figures out he is not evil.
If the book was little more all rounder and all the characters got some space not just and not just Katilyn and Gaberial it would have been more fun.
Now probably if i had read this book few years back i would have enjoyed it more.
God, this book took me forever to finish.The first two books were okay, but they were kind of slow and not interesting enough to rate past three stars.
By the third book, I had this overwhelming urge to throw the book across the room screaming "NO ONE FRIGGIN' TALKS LIKE THAT!!!".
It's sad really, because before the page that caused said book throwing, I actually kind of liked the couple that induced those screams.
Then, I turned it back into the library and vowed never to pick it up again.And that is why you shouldn't read this book.
I couldn't stand the insta love between Rob and Kait.
GABRIEL IS SOOO SMEXY LIKE OMG I WANT HIS BABIES XOXOXOXONow that I'm older it just sickens me how mushy the insta love is.
Buuuuuuut, Gabriel is still sexy ;) Just not as sexy as I thought he was.
-__- Can't you see Kait belongs with Gabriel?!
Couldn't get enough of Gabriel.
*huge ass sigh*The passion 3 StarsI remember loving the ending to this years ago.
There was just too much cheese...ya I know its L J Smith but I can't see through the insta love...
I think I found some Night World books in a used bookstore and went crazy from there.
Night World, Dark Visions, Forbidden Game, Secret Circle!
I hadn't read them, but that had to bode well for everything else, right?
Right!
Except for the damn Forbidden Game.
When do I get that one back, too?I kind of think this particular trilogy is like the Platonic ideal of LJ Smith stories - a beautiful redhead torn between too-good-to-be-true blonde and snarky-because-he's-WOUNDED brunette, a group of kids fighting adults (some evil, some oblivious), some sort of soulmatey psychic connection?
I don't think I can win reading L.J Smith books.
This is only my second time "attempting" to read her work and so far, it's not working.While Dark Visions was better then Vampire Diaries, I still found myself easily and overly annoyed.Smith has a strong simplicity in her dialog and writing skills that leave it lacking without any real spark.
There is a really good story lurking in this book, I liked the concept of an institute and having special skills, I thought it was unique and I really wanted to just love it.
I think I have to review each book separately...The Strange Power: Introduces us to all the main characters and the Institution where, Kaitlyn and every other psychic is going to spend the next year.
The book is really nice, I loved all the characters and the whole Institute life.The Possessed: This is the second book and my least favourite.
The Institute is BACK!
Loved it!
And it made up for the boredome the second book put me through.I would rate the book with five stars, but the second part really stopped me from doing so.
I bought this book on a whim back in 2011 because it has a gorgeous cover and it was only with 2 dollars and didn't realize that it is actually a trilogy that compressed in one book.
And I am really glad that I ended up buying it.
Its just A MARVELLOUS book.
Rating this 3 books separately would be not fair.
I gave everyone of them 4/5 but overall if I look at it as one book with three part it definitely deserves 5 splendid stars.
I don't know why I didn't see many goodread's friend reading this.
So, suitcases in tow, Kaitlyn sets off for San Carlos California and the Zetes Institute.At the Institute, Kaitlyn meets the other students recruited for the study and learns about their special abilities, Anna Whiteraven can speak to animals; Louis Cho, moves objects with his mind; Rob Kessler, can heal with energy; and finally the mysterious Gabriel Wolfe.
Of course, the three characters I love the most are Kaitlyn (girl power!), Rob (the Golden Boy), and Gabriel (The Bad Boy).
Of course, there are plenty of unanswered questions, but thankfully there is another book in the series to tie up all those loose ends.I really enjoyed the second book in this trilogy, and I am going to be immediately reading the third and final book.
I highly recommend this series, for L.J. Smith lovers and for those who haven’t had the chance to be introduced to this incredible author.Story: 4/5Characters: 4/5Originality: 4/5Writing: 5/5Ending: 4/5~~~THE PASSION~~~I was all to eager to read this book, and finish the Dark Visions trilogy.
That's the question I'll ask myself every time I look over at my bookshelf.
Why did I buy this book?
Why did I read this book??
I was tricked, lured in by 5 Star ratings from my Goodreads friends...
& I swear, I was this-close to liking it!
I mean, I like L.J. Smith...
at least I think I do - The Vampire Diaries is probably one of my favorite TV show & that's pretty much the same thing, right?
I think it was the writing that I didn't like, not so much the story - oh!
& the cha
I think it was the writing that I didn't like, not so much the story - oh!
I know many people love this book, but I just could not get into it.I hated Kaitlyn.
And to make matters worse - Kaitlyn falls in love with the first boy she sees!
Seriously, I don't think even 24 hours passes until she declares herself in love with Rob!
Each of them has a different power, which is pretty cool - or it would have been if so much of the books weren't weighed down with Kaitlyn's ridiculous boy drama.
The only thing that really bothered me (but in a good way) was that the chapters would end with a little cliffhanger where you HAD to go onto the next chapter and wait to stop reading until there was a quiet moment.
Smith's writing style flowed easily through my mind, and that's what makes an author great.**SPOILERS!!**I would just like to start by saying that I totally called the relationships and how they would be in the end.
And the way that Smith described both Rob and Anna as being purely good and full of light led me to the conclusion that those two would be together in the end.
I could've read her vampire diaries series but I hated the show too much to even try to read the damn book, so that's how I picked up Dark Visions.
Stupid me, fooled by the pretty cover.Dark visions had potential.
Lots of stuff is done to prove that the kid actually killed the person and even then lots of things are done to protect the child from going to jail/ mental hospital.
Even though Kait spends the whole first book at the institute and most of the third there it still hasn't been described properly.
Strange PowerThis is a very good book.
The book involves plenty of evil.
The students really start to notice something terribly wrong.
The book ends in a nice clip hanger.
This is the first L.J. Smith novel I have read.
I really think a lot of people will like this.
You start wondering what the experiments are for, how the kids are going to manage their powers, and terrible evil lurking in the house.
A lot of things happen in this book.
The book shows some evil, but it just briefly touches it.
The book has some tense moments in it.
By this point, accepting an invitation to attend one of these schools is like running UPstairs in a horror movie: everyone in the audience is screaming, “JESUS CHRIST, HAVEN’T YOU EVER SEEN SCREAM BEFORE?!”So yeah.
On the one hand, non-white characters finally get some action!
On the other hand, said action only happens when the main girl has gone on to her real true love, leaving her first love in need of some comfort.
Dark Visions is another book which includes 3 stories: The Strange Power, The Possessed, and The Passion.
As I have found Smith's books to be hot and cold, I was nervous about this one, but was determined to read it anyways as the subject matter interested me.
Unlike the 3 books in the NightWorld series, I enjoyed all the stories and their characters.
I found myself drawn to the story, and found the little plot twists suprising and unexpected.
After reading this book, I will probably be more likely to give this author a chance.
A bit lacking in character and relationship development.
We never get to see the viewpoint of 2 of the 5 main characters, so motives and ties are a bit unclear.
Her only contact with him in two books is him attacking her, then suddenly in the third he's no longer an enemy, but Kait isn't sure she likes him very much, and the next thing you hear from LeShan, he's dead and Kait is mourning his death and going into shock and treating his death as if it were Gabriel's or Rob's.
The plot is good, though I REALLY recommend reading all the books together, like in the combination set.
Basically it’s a story of good psychic teenagers with special abilities fighting the evil boss who wanted to use their abilities to make ton of money.
AGAIN there’s a love triangle in the book but this one is OK, most of the main characters are also likable.
The only problem I have with the story is when those ‘bad’ psychic kids(who help the evil boss) show up, they were presented as your typical make-up wearing, untidy and rock n’ roll loving bad kids, while the good kids are the wholesome, clean-cut, all-American middle class/lower middle class kids.
Plot: 3/5 starsWriting: 1/5 starsPace: 4/5 starsCharacters: 3/5 starsOverall: 2.75/5 stars
“She stood slim and proud as some medieval witch princess against the dawn.” (p.536)  This book has been staring at me for years, taunting me. I’ve tried reading it before but I couldn’t make myself read past the first book. Luckily after four years I’ve finally forced myself to read it cover to cover. Summary: This series followed Kaitlyn, Gabriel, Rob, Anna and Lewis, a group of psychic teenagers that were gathered in the Zetes Institute so that they could learn to control their powers. Howe
Summary: This series followed Kaitlyn, Gabriel, Rob, Anna and Lewis, a group of psychic teenagers that were gathered in the Zetes Institute so that they could learn to control their powers.
A series about psychic kids that fight against an evil mastermind that wants to exploit their powers should be an interesting read.
(view spoiler)[Her romance with Rob in the last book bothered me as much as Kait’s since they barely interact with each other throughout the series.
When I read that I had to put the book down for a moment.Every time Kait went on about how much she loved Rob I wanted to jump into the book and slap her.
Gabriel also has the ability to connect all 5 of them and communicate with each other through their minds, proving quite useful later as the fight ensues between good and evil powers.
With the realization of her potential and finally having friends and people that care for her and she cares for back, Kaitlyn becomes empowered and comes out the clear leader of the group as she is the only one who can seem to tame Gabriel, the most powerful and deadly psychic of the group.
Despite her strong attraction for Rob, Kaitlyn can't help but be intrigued by Gabriel.
But as time goes on they realise that the link between them may be the only way they will survive long enough to figure out what is really going on at the institute.I really enjoyed L.J. Smith's Night World series so was looking forward to trying her Dark Visions trilogy.
Dark Visions was a great read and I would definitely recommend the series to fans of young adult urban fantasy.Each of the students that have been hand picked to attend the institute have different psychic abilities.
